It's not a well known fact (or not to me) that a web site can use Macromedia's Flash Player to listen and watch through your microphone and webcam. A reader writes: "No doubt this has useful applications, but I find this amazing, especially since this feature does not seem to have been publicised. The web pageheregives more details."The Web page is also interesting because it lets you see the Flash sites you have visited and set the privacy settings for the player on your own PC.There's also a Macromedia help page,Can others use my webcam to spy on me?, so the idea has come up before.My immediate reaction is that anyone who attaches a microphone and webcam does so precisely in order to transmit sounds and images, so that's not a problem. The only problem would arise if the Flash Player could be hacked to do it without your knowledge. However, as the reader points out, that could be done by someone with physical access to your PC.Who'd know?So, what do you think? Is this something you wish you'd known about before, or is it simply not worth worrying about?
Well, so much for the idea that virtual worldsfoster community spirit(according to recent research covered by eToychest). The mega online game World of Warcraft is experiencing a "hostage situation" according tothisreport on Kotaku. The so-called "terrorist" organisation is a group of power gamers who have achieved the highest level of success for a particular server. The next stage of their self-actualisation is intended to be an altruistic act which keeps the online community happy and aims to reduce the social division between haves and have-nots: to complete their epic ordeal, the guild must activate a "gong", which opens up new content to all players on the server. Instead of throwing open the floodgates, however, they've decided to put up the new content for ransom: for $5,000 in-game gold.From theWoW forums:Nobody remembers the fair and quietly intelligent people we meet in their daily lives, but everyone remembers those who ruin their day.We'll have plenty of time to conquer this new content, but for now we see an endless novelty in holding it hostage. And this is what we will continue to do: Hold it hostage.The traditional epithets are flying thick and fast.Online social evolution continues to amaze players and students of virtual worlds.
talk talk talk
House proud: the Parnells at rest. Photograph: Don McPhee/The GuardianClear-minded readers may remember that about a year ago, a family decided to become subjects of a real Big Brother house, by allowing themselves to be monitored forresearch purposes.The Parnell family, from Sheffield, spent six months being monitored by a mixture of technologies from two different universities. What we described as"intensive technical spying"via RFID chips, the family's movements inside the house were tracked in order to help understand the way we use our homes.Well, the results are in, and now the researchers are asking for more help:Results of the study, collected and analysed by a team at Nottingham University's School of the Built Environment, showed that the den in the basement, the open-plan kitchen and the balcony hot-tub were all popular, while the dining room and the study were hardly used. The findings provide a huge wealth of data that will help to guide 21st century house building.But now the researchers are looking to broaden the research to cover a much larger cross-section of the population, with the help of a short online questionnaire which can be found at:nottingham.ac.uk/projectlifePersonally, I'll be telling them that I've spent an inordinate time in the study this weekend (fiddling about after the processor on my desktop PC decided to give up the ghost): but I'm sure if I had a balcony hot-tub, I'd spend plenty of time using that instead.
The BBC hasan interesting articlethat points out: "In 2013, copyright in the sound recording of the Beatles' first album expires, as it will for recordings from Elvis Presley, Cliff Richard and other performers of the same period."No wonder the music industry is in a panic. If it can't keep reselling old 60s songs, where's it going to make so much easy money?The article by Kay Withers, a Research Fellow on the Digital Society &amp; Media team at the Institute for Public Policy Research, says:But it is not actually the case that the artist will necessarily lose out. While copyright in the sound recording itself may be due to expire, copyright in the original work belonging to the songwriter lasts for the length of their lives plus 70 years.For each sale of a Beatles recording, the owner of the copyright in the original work will continue to receive payment until this expires many years from now.What will disappear is the right of individual record companies to maintain a monopoly on release of certain recordings. And this is what worries them.Comment: Luckily there's still time for another three rounds of re-issues, remasterings, recompilations, repackagings, remixes, and completist box sets that include the original floor sweepings.....
Welcome to Mashup CampThis unconference is co-organised by David Berlind, who helped with my recentmashupscover story via a telephone interview. (And after we talked, he wrotethis.)
AtWindows IT Pro, Paul Thurrott says: "Five months after I exclusively revealed the Windows Vista product editions, Microsoft has corroborated my report, officially revealing which Vista versions customers will be able to purchase later this year" (with some changes).The versions range from Windows Starter 2007, which doesn't include Vista's Aero graphics, to Windows Vista Ultimate. The most interesting is:Windows Vista Enterprise. Optimized for the enterprise, this version will be a true superset of Windows Vista Pro Edition. It will also include unique features such as Virtual PC, the multi-language user interface (MUI), and the Secure Startup/full volume encryption security technologies ("Cornerstone"). There is no analogous XP version for this product.The list also includes two N editions (Neutered? Nobbled? Nonsensical?) to meet EU competition requirements. These have no Windows Media Player, enabling Microsoft to innovate by providing the first operating system unable to run its own welcome video.
It's pleasing to know that it's not just games purists who think that movie versions of interactive entertainments are a pile of dross. Variety'sEEG Newsreports that three game-flicks of the past year have scooped three Golden Raspberry Award nominations (or, Razzies), two of which were pinned to games-to-movie director virtuoso Uwe Boll.Boll has landed a nom for worst director for the adaptation of survival horrorAlone in the Dark, while Tara Reid, who stars in the film, has chalked one up for Worst Actress. Fans of theHaloseries will be pleased to know that Executive Producer Peter Jackson has nixed the idea of Boll as director for the tie-in's forthcoming franchise.Blockbuster flopDoomalso got a nod, with wrestler-turned-actor The Rock gaining a Razzie nomination for his portrayal of Sarge.Previous Razzies nods have gone to Halle Berry for the super-flopCatwoman, George W. Bush forFahrenheit 9-11, and Madonna for Bond movieDie Another Day. Previous games films that have held honours includeTomb Raider: Cradle of Life(Angelina Jolie - Worst Actress) andLara Croft: Tomb Raider(Angelina Jolie - Worst Actress). They missed out on Bob Hoskins' brilliant performance inSuper Mario Bros., obviously.Now that game movies seem to be getting their dues, we can look forward to future nominations forother attractions, including the Sarah Michelle Gellar-helmed adaptation ofAmerican McGee's Alice(due for release at the end of this year) and the perpetually-in-production ofMax Payne, due sometime in the distant future.This year's Razzie ceremony will be held at the Ivar Theatre on 4 March.
How do you turn a paperclip into a house? Not a tiny wire house suitable for a wasp or ant, but a real one made of bricks? Tricky, but Kyle MacDonald's half-way there. Like Alex Tew, who made $1m selling a million pixels on his MillionDollarHomepage, 26-year-old Kyle, a Canadian who claims to have "delivered more than one thousand pizzas" in his life, has harnessed the power of the internet to his own advantage.Kyle's idea was to take his favourite childhood game and make it into a business. The kids' version is a scavenger hunt, where you go from house to house exchanging your chewed-up crap for strangers' good stuff. In Kyle's reworked, electronic version he presented a paperclip on his blog, and invited readers to offer their swapsies. From the off, Kyle made it plain he wanted to swap his way to a house. But not straight away, that would be ridiculous. Instead, he started by taking receipt of a fish-shaped pen, from Ronnie and Corinna."I figured they'd used the fish pen to write out all sorts of cool stuff on paper and, being vegans, wanted very little to do with a fish. They probably needed the paperclip to clip all those papers together so it was a win-win situation."In exchange for the fish pen, Kyle was offered a handmade doorknob by a potter called Annie, who believed in challenging "the concept we have of value". For the knob, Kyle received a barbecue. For the barbecue, a 1,000w Honda EX generator. For the generator, he accepted the offer of "one instant party" - a neon Budweiser sign, and an IOU for a kegful of beer. "One red generator may have a higher cash value than one instant party," Kyle admits, "But one instant party has more funtential." After the instant party, he made a big step up: he got a snowmobile. After claiming, on Canadian TV, that he would go anywhere on earth to make a trade but Yahk, British Columbia, Kyle swapped the snowmobile (a 1991 Bombardier Mach 1) for a three-day trip to Yahk, British Columbia. A Yahk fan, Bruno, swapped his 1995 Ford Cube Van for the holiday. This is currently as far as Kyle has got, although in exchange for the van, he has been offered a jobless roommate, seven video games (from a teenager who "needs a new hobby"), one month of telemarketing services, a 17in viola, a girl called Brooke's virginity and another red paperclip. "I'd like to get out of the automobile realm as soon as possible," he says. "Too much potential paperwork and insurance."I make him some offers of my own: A pair of gold shoes: "Yes." A leather satchel filled with letters which may or may not be from Michael Jackson? "Maybe." A speaking role in the new Bond film (two lines)? "Definitely. Somebody else surely would find it valuable." A pint of blood with historical value? "Yes. If just regular blood, no." So, isOneredpaperclip.blogspot.comthe new eBay? "Sure." Kyle says, "Why not?".
Nissan Murano; &#163;29,995; Top speed 124mph; Engine 3.5litre V6; Good for: Leading men; Bad for: Mummy's boysEarlier this week, like thousands of motorists across the country, a half-expected envelope dropped through my letterbox. I'd been snapped by a speed camera doing 42mph in a 30mph zone - three points and &#163;60. I knew immediately which loathsome yellow-backed flasher it was as well - the one at the bottom of our hill, hidden by trees and lurking in the undergrowth like some menacing hitchhiker. It had got me before, and considering I was driving Nissan's whippet-quick Murano, I was quite relieved it was only 42mph.Temptation is a terrible thing and sitting at the wheel of the super-sexy SUV crossover (marketing speak for a vehicle that looks like a 4X4 but handles like a sportscar) it would have taken a bigger man than me to resist the lure of its 3.5-litre engine - the same powerplant that drives Nissan's iconic 350Z sports car. So I suppose it was inevitable...There are now about 6,000 speed cameras in use around Britain, and the number of speeding offences is rising all the time - it's estimated they'll soon pass the two million per year mark - generating, after costs, a profit of at least &#163;20m a year for the treasury.But don't despair. There are things the speed-savvy motorist can do to deal with these relentless roadside daleks which don't involve sawing them down, crashing into them, covering them with cardboard boxes, shooting them in the face with a shotgun or smashing them with tyre irons... as some of the motoring community's more vociferous opponents have done in the past.The first is to invest in an on-board detector which is effective and legal but expensive (the Origin Blue I, for instance, will set you back &#163;379 - or 6.3 speeding tickets). The second is to spray your number plate with a clear, highly reflective product, such as Flashtec, which causes your number plate to be unreadable under flash photography. It's cheap (0.5 speeding tickets) and, perhaps surprisingly, still legal. The third, which is totally free, is of course, to drive more slowly. But this option seems to be the one we find hardest.In many ways, it was appropriate that I should be snapped in the Murano. Its double-take looks mean it's not going to appeal to the camera shy. With its wraparound chrome grille, sleek chiselled lines and kerb grinding alloy wheels, the Nissan seems to have been built with nothing more rugged in mind than a red carpet. Ask our photographer, he had to be towed from the mud in Epping Forest just after the picture above was taken.Other than providing regular sustenance for speed cameras, the Murano also comes with several internal TV screens. Two pulldown DVDs will keep back-seat passengers happy, while in the front, a hi-tech reversing camera will sooth even the most irate driver.The simple act of parallel parking seems to be rocket fuel for a hundred domestic disputes (R should stand for Rage not Reverse), but by beaming the view from a camera placed above the rear bumper on to a screen in the dashboard, the Murano driver will never again have to estimate how big 12 inches really is.martin.love@observer.co.uk
In The New York Times, William Safire has a brief round-up ofblog-related jargon....
The Washington Post has a big piece today about the sort of people whohijack PCs, form botnets, and make moneyfrom popups or even, sometimes, blackmail. For example, one 21-year old interviewed -- "0x80" (pronounced X-eighty) -- is making about $6,800 a month. He says:"All those people in my botnet, right, if I don't use them, they're just gonna eventually get caught up in someone else's net, so it might as well be mine," 0x80 says. "I mean, most of these people I infect are so stupid they really ain't got no business being on [the Internet] in the first place."One of 0x80's friends, Majy, says TopConverting "paid him an average of $2,400 every two weeks for installing its programs. He got 20 cents per install for computers in the United States and five cents per install for PCs in 16 other countries, including France, Germany and the United Kingdom. A nickel per install doesn't sound like much, unless you control a botnet of tens of thousands of computers."Comment: If you've ever had to spend a couple of hours cleaning the spyware off someone's PC, look on the bright side: somewhere some useless, inadequately-socialised scum-brained jerk may have made 5c out of it.
Of the many faces that Google presents - the do-gooding empire with a staggering market valuation, the accomplice to Chinese government censorship, the feared media machine - in essence the service remains a search engine for finding information online. The company's good timing in launching a superior search engine at a time of rapidly increasing online advertising and broadband connections has left its rivals Microsoft and Yahoo! struggling.But Google's party could soon be crashed and some analysts are predicting a repeat of the bloody Netscape-Microsoft browser battles of the mid-90s.The fight is set to be joined later this year when both Yahoo! and Microsoft's MSN portal are expected to improve their search offerings.Yahoo! says its new system will present advertising relevant to the search in hand and therefore more likely to be clicked. Microsoft will launch Windows Live Search, which will simultaneously search across the internet, desktops and mobile devices, to get 'fast access to real answers, rather than hundreds of pages with thousands of links'.But the real struggle will come when competing search engines begin to offer direct incentives to users. Not unlike newspapers giving away DVDs or offering competition prizes, the search engine business is about to become a world of direct promotion.Last week, Microsoft announced a three-month incentive promotion inviting searchers to visitwww.msnsearchandwin.comto try for a prize. 'We're hopeful that once people give it a shot, they'll want to come back again and again,' said Lisa Gurry, marketing director at MSN Search. Yahoo! recently asked users if offers such as discounts on frequent-flier miles or a subscription to the online DVD rental service Netflix, would convince them to switch to its search engine.The problem for Yahoo! and Microsoft is that the public can associate searching just with Google; both companies need attractive incentives to win customers and, in turn, advertising revenue. Microsoft is being tentative, offering just $1m in prizes. Still, it is almost certain this is where the search engine business is heading.Last month, Amazon.com began offering regular users of its search site A9.com, a 1.57 per cent discount on purchases made through its site. Google has Blingo.com, which receives revenue from Google for referring search users to its results; the company takes a part of that revenue and gives prizes to users who access Google via its site.Bill Gates has suggested that Microsoft might go further, by kicking back advertising revenue to consumers. Sharing ad revenue generated by searches on MSN with the people doing the searches, is confounding in the simplicity of its logic. But it shows how confusing the commercial business of internet search has become and how potentially fragile Google's revolutionary pay-per-click ad business model could turn out to be.An article in the financial magazine Barron's has warned that Google's stratospheric market capitalisation could be abruptly halved should its model of business receive any comparatively mild knocks. One scenario is a decline in the market for key-word advertising. The price advertisers pay to Google when users click on their links after a key-word or phrase search depends on market forces - for instance, the number of similar services prepared to pay for Google to direct search traffic their way. But there are complaints that Google searches cost advertisers too much.Online advertising revenue last year grew by 34 per cent, to about $13bn, compared with just 4 per cent linked to TV, radio and print ads. How long that will last is uncertain. Firms including eBay and Travelocity talk of 'unsustainable levels of spending' on search advertising; Barron's says a phrase such as 'charity car donation' now costs the advertiser $35 when their site is visited. The phrase 'home equity loan online' will cost $27.89.Clearly, with billions of ad revenue dollars sloshing around the search engine business, Google's big rivals will be willing to pay for a market share. But advertisers must believe online ads are value for money. The 'pay per click and search' model does not guarantee a sale after all, and the system can be easy to abuse with software trained to click on ads repeatedly. In other instances 'click farms' have been contracted to drive up the cost of their competitors' advertising. By some estimates, up to 25 per cent of all clicks are fraudulent.With Google and Yahoo! executives under oath before Congress over concessions granted to the Chinese government in exchange for access to that country's market, the news that the online search party may soon be spoiled by gatecrashers has yet to sink in. Google has lost more than $100 per share off its peak valuation over the past month, but it still has some $230 to go before it reaches the level considered reasonable by that well-known net bubble sage, Henry Blodgett - who last week said $100 was right.
Recent adverse criticism of Google - particularly the lengthy attack last week in the financial journal Barron's - has cost the internet search engine's share price more than 25 per cent of its value over the past week.How significant is this? I've met Google's founders and have followed its fortunes closely since its earliest days and especially since its flotation. I'm pretty certain that what we have seen in the past week, far from being in any way evidence of a fundamental, long-term problem, is merely a temporary down cycle in the fortunes of a mature business that, like any other, will have its inevitable ups and downs.Whatever Google's detractors might say, the customer benefit is unarguable. Google plays a key, even catalytic, role in creating instant access to what is pretty well the sum total of human culture. It's a comprehensive, universal research tool whose breadth would have been unimaginable a decade ago.The organisation does not present an austere, faceless, multinational conglomerate, but is a vibrant, idealistic, passionate company, composed mostly of young or youngish people who truly believe in the new age of the internet and see that age as a quantum leap in the nature of human culture.The idealism expressed in the corporate motto - 'Do no evil' - is not just a matter of ethics, it's also good business. Google lives or dies by the goodwill of its customers. People don't buy Google, they use it. Their attachment is going to be emotional or nothing and the fact that Google generates its revenue through advertising means that this separation of customer and user appears to work spectacularly well.I'm not suggesting Google is ever going to be undeserving of criticism. Still less is it immune to criticism. But I think it has now moved towards a more mature, evolved state of being, where it must accept that periodic attacks on its activities - and share price - will happen and needs to weather them .The big story about Google before the Barron's article came out focused on what many people perceived as a major compromise when it launched google.cn, its service for China. Google was given permission by Beijing to operate within China in exchange for agreeing to remove what Google rather cagily described as 'certain sensitive information' from the search results. What this actually meant is that users of google.cn would find search results censored or blocked completely if the Chinese government regarded the results as politically questionable.Google was at pains to deny that it had compromised itself. Andrew McLaughlin, a top policymaker at Google and a senior fellow at the Berkman Centre for Internet and Society at Harvard Law School, said that users of google.com in China had been 'struggling' with a service that, 'to be blunt', wasn't very good and was down about 10 per cent of the time. He went on to say that the Google News service had never been available to users in China and that Google Images was only accessible about half the time. McLaughlin did not explain the precise reason for the quality problems, but the implication was that they were mainly due to technical difficulties.It cannot be denied that, in launching its censored service, Google showed it was prepared to allow some compromise to its ideals rather than refuse the Chinese access. It was basically saying that half a loaf is better than no bread.So was Google right in its decision to launch a compromised service in China rather than to maintain the status quo of a much-less-than-perfect service? From a commercial point of view, the need for Google to gain a foothold in China was unarguable. Other internet search engines were and are looking at ways of getting into the country and the local incumbent, Baidu, is a formidable competitor Google will clearly need to beat. It can hardly be blamed for thinking that some access to the vast Chinese market is better than none.But what is really at stake is neither Google's commercial objectives nor Beijing's political ones. The real issue is nothing less than the birth of a new world, in which the individual has acquired a level of power, influence and sheer wilful independence that is ultimately greater than any government can be, even China's. A world ruled by individuals whose desires, yearnings and economic choices are determining not only the future of the internet but of the world economy itself.At a pragmatic level, we can perhaps understand Google's decision; it wants to make money. Similarly, we can perhaps understand - even if we disagree with - Beijing's taking for granted that it is allowed to censor what its 1.4 billion subjects find on the internet; it wants to keep control. But finally the will of billions of individuals, expressed via their use of the net, will be stronger even than the commercial ambitions of the world's leading search engine or the political agenda of the government of the world's most populous country.&#183;Julie Meyer runs Ariadne Capital, a London-based investment and advisory firm.www.ariadnecapital.com
A company has given its employees free iPods pre-loaded with comedy audiobooks to help relieve commuter stress and cheer them up on their way to work.The idea came after a manager at mobile video conferencing company Mobix listened to a recording of Bill Bailey's comedy show Part Troll on a car journey.Staff have also been given a subscription to download limitless audio content.Chris McKee, of theAudible.co.ukwebsite, said comedy titles such as The Best of Little Britain often outsell the most popular music singles in the download charts.
Last week, Jonathan Heines, a 26-year-old Manhattanite, made a Valentine's Day killing. It was all thanks to Craig Newmark, founder of the revolutionary website,Craigslist.Heines had made 14 February bookings at top restaurants in New York, Los Angeles and Las Vegas. He then posted an advert on Craigslist offering to sell them to hapless boyfriends looking for a last-minute date venue. He soon did and turned a tidy profit, considering the bookings and the advert were free.It was an inspired idea and one that would have been impossible without Newmark's site. But things like Heines's scheme are just the smallest way in which Craigslist is changing our lives. Craig who? Craig what? you might ask. It is a fair question. Yet Newmark deserves his place in the emerging pantheon of technology pioneers, joining Bill Gates, founder of Microsoft, and Google's Larry Page and Sergey Brin. Newmark, a man so nerdish he makes Gates look like a flamboyant playboy, may even be the greatest of them all.For Newmark is out to change the world. Craigslist has grown from a single email to one of the great enablers of the internet. Whether you are looking for an apartment to rent, trying to find a missing person, sell a ticket or find a sex partner, Craigslist grants a free and instant audience of millions. It has found people homes, located runaway children and resulted in marriages.So far, so good. But there has been an unexpected ripple effect. Craigslist is also changing the face of the world's media. Behind his thick glasses is a man dubbed (unfairly or not) 'the destroyer of journalism'. The threat is simple and, like so many impacts of the internet, completely unforeseen.Craigslist is wiping out newspapers by taking away the classified adverts they need to keep afloat. Newmark believes he is a part of a visionary movement, slaying the old media. He sees a world where newspapers and reporters are defunct, replaced by an online army of 'citizen journalists' beholden to no proprietor or political party and writing the news on the web.Craigslist is now active in 190 cities in 35 countries. It has a large presence in Britain in cities from Bristol to Edinburgh. It gets 10 million visitors a month globally to its three billion web pages. For Newmark, that looks a lot like the wave of the future. He thinks the only question is whether the old media will sink or swim with the tide.Last spring, at the American Society of Newspapers' annual conference, two panellists flashed up a picture of Newmark and asked how many editors present knew this man. Only a handful put up their hands. That would no longer be true.But who is Craig Newmark? He cuts a shabby yet youthful figure, short and overweight, with an unfortunate habit of wearing a Kangol beret. But behind the geekdom lurks a radical and highly motivated intelligence. He is no spring chicken, either. He born in 1952, in the town of Morristown, New Jersey.Like many potential revolutionaries, Newmark's birth was not particularly auspicious. His father, Lee, was a salesman who dealt in, among other things, meat and insurance. His mother, Joyce, was a book-keeper. The pair met at a synagogue dance. Tragically, Newmark's father died of cancer just six months after the young boy's bar mitzvah.Newmark's childhood was straight out of a Hollywood teen flick, where he would play the geek. He was rarely invited to other children's parties and his teacher sent him to a school counsellor who gave up on therapy and taught him chess. Just to complete the nerdish image, Newmark wore thick glasses with a piece of tape holding them together. And he loved science fiction and comic books.Newmark ended up attending college at Case Western Reserve in Cleveland, Ohio. His social problems continued, though he remembers having an 'ah ha!' moment one day in the cafeteria, as he sat alone reading a book called Language in Thought and Action. 'I realised it wasn't everyone else who had a communications problem - it was me,' he once told an interviewer.After college, Newmark ended up working for IBM. He spent 10 years in Detroit and six years in Boca Raton, Florida, on the corporate ladder. It seemed the life of the hapless geek would continue. At one stage (and despite his unforgiving body shape), he joined ballet and jazz dance classes in an effort to meet women. Instead of finding Miss Right, he suffered a hernia and ended up in hospital.Newmark's life really took off in 1993 when he left IBM and moved to the Bay Area in San Francisco as a freelance computer expert. The countercultural ethos of the city began to seep into him. He started socialising with a crowd of computer and technology experts who saw their emerging field as revolutionary. They hung out in cafes and blended art and science.Then, almost by chance, Newmark's world changed. In 1995, he began sending out an email to a dozen or so friends listing forthcoming events. Their friends soon asked to be included on the list. And then their friends. And so on and so on. Soon people were asking him to include apartments for rent or job opportunities on the list. Craigslist was born.Its growth has been enormous. It became Newmark's sole job a few years later. In San Francisco, the city authorities have now declared 10 October Craigslist Day. It is one of the top 10 most visited websites in the world. From New York to Moscow, Craigslist allows people to organise their lives, to sell and buy, meet lovers and renew old friendships. Saw someone on the bus you didn't have the courage to speak to? Go to the 'missed connections' area and describe them. Leave your email address. They might just call you back.And it is virtually all free. While newspapers would charge for classified adverts and limit the space, Craigslist costs nothing, ads can be as long as you like, you can include pictures and its readership is bigger.Yet despite the huge impact Newmark has had in the field of communications, he remains socially inept. One interviewer, fresh from spending four hours with him, was stunned when a little later Newmark did not recognise him and had forgotten his name.But what makes Newmark different from other dotcom success stories is not his ineptness but, rather, his different attitude to business. He has chosen not to make hundreds of millions of dollars. He keeps the adverts free (the only ones that pay are a handful in New York, San Francisco and Los Angeles) and has steadfastly refused to float on the stock exchange.One study estimated Craigslist could earn $550m a year if it made the most of its huge readership and potential revenues. But Newmark refuses to take the bait. He keeps most of its finances secret but estimates believe the site generates $10m-20m a year (though with a staff of just 19 and running it out of a converted townhouse, that is certainly enough to make Newmark rich enough).He appears to be that rarest of creatures: he has stuck to his core beliefs despite massive success. Not for him the trappings of wealth like globetrotting billionaire Bill Gates. 'Make a comfortable living and then make a difference,' is Newmark's philosophy. The truth might well be - brace yourself - that Newmark is not in it for the money. He's in it to change the world. There are few trappings of real wealth in Newmark's life. He owns an environmentally sensitive Prius car, but usually takes public transport. He lives in a modest apartment and hangs out in the same coffee shop. He undoubtedly has a few million dollars tucked away somewhere (perhaps a lot more than that), but that money is for his projects, not for his pleasures.He wants to make a difference, he argues. He is not shy about his politics or his belief that the old media have let everyone down. He is furious about the Iraq war and believes that journalists failed in their jobs. 'The White House press corps don't speak truth to power; they are frightened to lose the access they don't have anyway,' he has said. It is an analysis that comes straight from the playbook of Noam Chomsky.Newmark's answer to this problem is still undefined, though he is readying his armoury of cash to invest in citizen journalism projects. But even as he works it out, Craigslist is eating away at one of the very reasons newspapers exist (to sell adverts). Across America (and soon, perhaps, the rest of the world), newspaper profits are being eaten into and journalists are being laid off. Newmark still cuts an unlikely revolutionary figure. But then he has already turned one single email into a worldwide phenomenon of social change.It would be a mistake to underestimate Newmark. Last year, he took his place on Time's 100 list of people shaping the modern world, sharing space with Clint Eastwood, Oprah Winfrey and Johnny Depp. The Nerd's Revenge does not even begin to cover it.The Newmark lowdownBorn6 December 1952, in Morristown, New Jersey. The son of salesman Lee and book-keeper Joyce, Craig Newmark has never married or had children, though he does have a girlfriend. He lives in San Francisco.Best of timesNow. Since its inception as an email sent to his friends, Craigslist has leapt to the forefront of the internet revolution, spreading around the world and threatening the existence of traditional media. Armed with cash and cachet, Newmark is determined to help shape the future of media online in the form of citizen journalism (i.e. written by you, the readers).Worst of timesHigh school. Newmark was the opposite of the popular student. Geekish and socially awkward, he had few friends and was once sent to a counsellor for help. The counsellor attempted to solve these problems by teaching him to play chess.What he saysOn the real nature of Craigslist. 'My feeling is that something connecting people to fix the world over time is the deepest spiritual value you can have.'What others say'Craigslist is sitting on a potential gold mine of revenue if only it would abandon its communist manifesto' - Eric Baker, an internet mogul who has studied Craigslist and who believes that it could make in the region of $550m a year.
One of the most common misconceptions about the computer industry is that it is 'hi-tech', that is to say, technically advanced. This is utter baloney.Some of its products may be reasonably sophisticated but the industry, per se, is still in a primitive state of development. Right now, for example, my guess is that it's about where the automobile industry was circa 1920, with Bill Gates playing Henry Ford and the PC playing the role of the Model T - which was launched in 1909 at $1,000 and by 1916 was selling for about $360 (equivalent to more than $6,000 in today's money). 'The public has confidence in Ford cars,' burbled the sales brochure, 'because it knows that Henry Ford and James Couzens [Ford's partner] still control the destinies of the Model T, and that these men have demonstrated beyond the slightest doubt their sincerity, integrity and ability.'The Model T was an astonishingly successful product because it made motoring accessible to the middle classes. It dominated the marketplace, to the extent of even denying customers freedom to choose the colour of their vehicles. They could, Ford famously said, 'have any colour, so long as it's black'.The Windows-based PC, for its part, brought computing to the masses. Go into any branch of Dixons or PC World and you can have any computer you like, so long as it runs Microsoft Windows. These retailers do not generally trouble themselves with boutique products such as Apple Macs, any more than 1920s Ford dealerships concerned themselves with Hispano-Suizas. As for nerdy engines powered by Linux, forget it.So the early automobile industry, like our contemporary computer industry, was vendor-dominated. But the mark of a mature industry is that its consumers are sovereign. You can go out today and buy a car from any one of at least a dozen manufacturers, all of which will have a standard non-proprietary 'operating system' (eg, clutch and brake pedals and steering wheel in the same positions) and do not require you to change the way you drive in order to operate them.The early automobile industry was also exceedingly cavalier about things such as safety, reliability and legal liability - and got away with that for decades. Indeed, it was not until Ralph Nader and his campaign against GM's Corvair in the 1960s that automobile companies were forced to accept responsibility for unsafe products.This happy state still remains to be achieved by the computer industry, which continues to sell bug-ridden, insecure and flawed software products yet is permitted to insist that customers sign legal waivers absolving the manufacturer of any liability before they are allowed to operate the products. So if the software trashes your priceless and irreplaceable novel/portfolio/score/script well, that's just tough, buddy. Caveat emptor.In the early, hubristic days of the PC, enthusiasts used to say that if cars were computers then a Rolls-Royce would cost &pound;300, do 100,000mpg and accelerate from zero to 60mph in 10 nanoseconds. To which the obvious riposte was that if cars were computers, they would grind to a halt every few hours, crash unaccountably every few days, require regular patching and updating of all their moving parts and eventually get to the state where the only way of getting them to move at all was to install a new engine. And all this without mentioning that in order to stop them you had to press the 'Start' button.Which brings us neatly to last Tuesday and the appearance of Henry, er, Bill Gates at the RSA Security conference in San Jose. Gates is the presiding genius behind Microsoft Windows, the software which powers ninetysomething per cent of the world's personal computers - and drives legions of their users wild with frustration.Many of the PCs in people's homes are riddled with a rich ecosystem of viruses, worms, trojans, adware and spyware which exploit flaws in Microsoft software. While most companies escape the worst of these pestilences because they employ expensive IT support staff and robust defence measures, the average home user remains hopelessly exposed. In his keynote address, Gates finally acknowledged that his company bears a large responsibility in this area - which is great news. But in the same breath he went on to say that the 'entire computing industry' needs to get together to build a 'trust ecosystem'. Let us deconstruct that. The problem, it seems, is largely Microsoft's responsibility; but it's the industry which has to fix it.At the same time, Microsoft announced a helpful new service for those embattled home users mentioned earlier. It's a 'computer health' software package called OneCareLive, which includes antivirus programs, automatic updates, back-up prompts and live customer service. It can be installed on up to three computers in a home and will be available from June. Oh - and it costs $49 a year. Neat, eh? Snake oil salesmen, eat your hearts out.john.naughton@observer.co.uk
Merrill Lynch has published a note on Sony's PlayStation 3 that prices the parts at an estimated $800*, including $230 for the Cell processor and $350 for the Blu-ray drive. That's just the bill of materials, and doesn't include the manufacturing, distribution, advertising and launch costs, or a percentage for dealers selling the machine. asEngadgetsays: "She's like Kutaragi's Spruce Goose. Oh she'll fly alright, but at what cost?"* The report says $900 but the figures only add up to $800. This compares withMerrill Lynch Japan's estimated $494manufacturing cost last year. Either way, Merrill Lynch says: "It's now clear that the box is prohibitively expensive to make".This could lead to delays of 6 - 12 months "with the result being an autumn launch in Japan and a late 2006 or early 2007 launch in the US" ... or to restricted supplies. According to the report:Our colleague Mr Kuriyama's analysis suggests that Sony may be backing away from those losses until the company can move to reduce the system's costs in 2007. The result could be 2006 unit volumes for PS3 in the 2-3 million unit range.If this is correct, the PS3 would be in even shorter supply than the Xbox 360.The estimated cost of parts falls to $320 after three years. If that's so, Sony would still be making a loss if it sold PS3 consoles at $399. However, Sony must have done its own projections, and (barring something unpredictable, such as insanity) it surely would not have gone ahead with the PS3 unless it expected a much lower figure.Otherwise this is just what we expected, only worse. Sony stuck its neck out by basing the PS3 on cutting edge -- actually, non-existent -- parts, and now it's going to cost it loadsamoney to get something to market to compete with the Xbox 360. Worse, early reports (below) suggest the PS3 may not perform all that much better than the Xbox 360, or not enough to justify costing twice the price.Sony can, of course, sell the PS3 at a huge loss, but not for very long. It certainly can't afford a price war with Microsoft, which has $34.7 billion in the bank and trousers more than $1 billion a month.Sony entered the games console market, which was divided mainly between Nintendo and Sega, by using profits from its vast electronics business, including sales of TVs and portable cassette players. But it was slow to get going in the LCD TV market, and Apple has savaged its portable audio business, so Sony's electronics, movie and music divisions are not in a good position to bankroll a beleagured console company.
Blogs are everywhere, seemingly breeding like mice, and subject to the most ridiculous statistical inflation. The top end estimate suggests there are more than 100 million; the more conservative end puts the figure at about 30m.Despite their prevalence, there remains widespread misunderstanding about what a blog is and who bloggers are, particularly among those in what the blogosphere refers to as "MSM" (mainstream media).I remember being asked what a blog was in front of a colleague who keeps one. Wanting to keep the explanation short, I said, "It's a kind of online diary with comments and links." My colleague's displeasure at having his oeuvre described as "a diary" was palpable.The original term from which blog is derived is "weblog", though there is now a trendency to use blog as shorthand. Rich Gordon, a media journalist and blogger in America, trawled a database of leading papers from last week to discover that "weblog" appeared in 45 articles but "blog" appeared in 412. So "weblog", it would seem, is all but dead.On Guardian Unlimited, we have half a dozen blogs, and are about to add more, most notably our new comment blog (called Comment is Free, in a nod to the Guardian's distinguished editor, CP Scott). What has interested me about the reaction from media commentators and writers is that, in some quarters, it is clear there is a belief that blogging is in some way different from journalism."Bloggers" might be the generic term used for anyone with a blog, but blogger and journalist are not mutually exclusive terms. But to their surprise, not all journalists are particularly great at it. As a blog is nothing more than a publishing platform, then it ought to suit them, but the fact that blogging encourages those who can point to other source material for discussion (linking) and adopt a conversational tone which invites other observations means that it is not always for everyone.New York magazine has just published a list of the 50 most popular blogs in the world. At the top is a blog calledBoing Boing, which is a collective effort by some of the sharpest people at the forefront of spreading internet zeitgeist. In some ways Boing Boing serves a traditional journalistic function enacted on the web. But third in the list isPostsecret.com, a blog where people anonymously post their biggest secrets. Technology and politics still dominate most of the list, and while the American bloggers still rule, the rapid increase in Japanese and even Chinese blogs in the top 50 demonstrates that blogging is a globalised trend.It is also interesting to note that Nick Denton, who has a string of blogs in the top 50 - including the excellent media blog Gawker and the politically influential Wonkette - is, in fact, British.There will always be a number of voices on blogs who react violently to the idea that mainstream media organisations can or even should blog at all. Personally, I think that if we fail to engage our journalists with the possibility of blogging, then we are pretty much consigning ourselves to history. This week we ran a post by one of the Guardian's music writers Dorian Lynskey who bravely sat and blogged the Brit Awards for our arts blog Culture Vulture live.It was a great way to use the "latest first" facility of blog publishing and its wit drew praise from many of the comments. On Thursday one of our news team, Simon Jeffrey, posted on our news blog about the issues surrounding the publication of Abu Ghraib images - again the facility of the blog enabled him to incorporate wide-ranging links and illustrate the unfolding argument far more comprehensively than would have been possible in print.So what is a blog? Let's just say it is an opportunity, not a threat.&#183;Emily Bell is editor-in-chief of Guardian Unlimited
"Apple Computer appears to have invoked the Digital Millenium Copyright Act to stop the dissemination of methods allowing Mac OS X to run on chips from Intel and Advanced Micro Devices. The chatter at theOSx86 Projectwas stifled Friday after the forum was served with a notice under the DMCA, according to a posting on the site," reportsCNet. (The forum is closed, not the whole site.)"Win2osx.net, another Web site that hosts discussions related to getting Mac OS X onto chips with the x86 instruction set, was also down Friday." (The whole site seems to be down.)Comment: Maybe they could get their sites hosted in China and see if the US government tries to block them....
Dell turned in excellent results for its fourth quarter, with revenues up by 13% to $15.2 billion, and profits up by 52% to $1 billion. For the full year, revenues reached $55.9 billion (up from $49.2 billion) with profits 17% higher at $3.6 billion.Sales of portable products led the way, with a 47% increase in shipments and a 22% increase in revenues. Also, Dell's storage business grew by 41% and its services business by 26%, in revenue terms.However, for the current quarter, Dell said it "expects to post sales between $14.2 billion and $14.6 billion, less than the $14.7 billion expected by analysts," asMarketWatchreported.The weak forecast, lack of growth in desktop PC sales, thinner margins and thesuccess at Hewlett-Packardled to a fall in Dell shares, and other tech stocks, asReutersnoted.
"Intel Inside cheapens the brand, weakens the halo effect supporting Apple's highly profitable entertainment products, raises Apple's costs, results in reduced overall performance, and limits Apple's ability to differentiate its products," saysPaul Murphy on his blog at ZD Net. His solution:go back to the PowerPC.Comment: There is some interesting stuff along the way, regardless of the conclusions....
BlackPS2, XBOXBilled as "gun porn", Black is an unapologetic ode to munitions usage. Its Bourne Identity-style plot (delivered in a blur of edits and live action shaky-cam) exists to bridge tiny gaps between excessive gunplay, which, while less gory than other titles in its genre, does way more damage to your surroundings, with each bullet creating its own little storm of dislodged plaster and debris. Like Halo, approaching all situations with trigger held down is suicidal, making levels a negotiation between caution and sweet demolition using weapons that feel noisy, heavy and destructive. Capable of inducing actual euphoria as you rake its cityscapes with ordnance, and in spite of brutally long levels, this is a honed and rewarding way to demolish entire city blocks without recourse to a wrecking ball.&#183;Electronic Arts, &pound;40Mario &amp; Luigi: Partners In TimeNintendo DSWith two screens (one touch-sensitive) and a built-in microphone, Nintendo's DS lends itself to games developed with these unusual features in mind. Strange, then, that although it employs the second screen to useful effect, Mario &amp; Luigi: Partners In Time ignores the system's novelties in favour of more traditional control via four buttons and direction pad. The good news is that this sequel to Mario &amp; Luigi: Superstar Saga improves on the original's subtle platform game-meets-role-playing mechanics, which see you improving each character's abilities through judiciously timed hops onto enemies' heads and use of special power-ups. It also adds an extra dimension by introducing the more agile Baby Mario &amp; Luigi, who regularly undertake their own separate mini-missions on the DS's upper screen. All the peculiar characters and entertainment value of the prequel, and with a lesser tendency to get you lost.&#183;Nintendo, &pound;30We Love KatamariPS2We Love Katamari is the sequel to Katamari Damacy, a game never released in the UK because it was deemed to be too strange for a European audience obsessed with sports sims and driving games. Bowing to a clamour of importers and increasing commercial success in the rest of the world, Katamari is finally here, and involves steering a sticky cylinder around its levels, creating a swelling snowball of debris. Starting out rolling over pencils, drawing pins and rubbers, you eventually graduate to the Arc de Triomphe and the entire New York skyline as your ball of bric-a-brac reaches town-sized proportions. Silly, inventive and wholly absorbing, We Love Katamari is a colourful antidote to the tiresome plastic gangsta stylings of so much contemporary software.&#183;Electronic Arts, &pound;40
There are a numer of queries here that have not appeared in the printed version of Ask Jack:A substitute for Microsoft OfficeAny thoughts on a good browser?Are downloads legal if you own the vinyl?Broadband danger in the fast laneBrowsing with MaxthonConverting MP2 audio files to MP3Don't download MSN Messenger beta 8(except the official beta version from Microsoft Live)E-readers for e-booksGetting XP's display back to normalHelping teens to spend your money onlineHow can I record mobile phone conversations?How do you back up your e-mail?How to remove WinFixer.exe?How to trace an e-mailIs there a company email directory?Is there a printer that's both ecological and cheap?Limiting the kids' access to the netMystery sounds in Windows XPNew options for data backupNoisy monitor is a problemPassword protection for JPEGsPowered USB?Rescuing data from Amstrad PCW disksRegistry cleaners and scam sales pitchesRemoving Supanet from a Time PCSetting the default email service in WindowsSoftware to manipulate imagesSolar-powered PC -- any advice?Some of my web-mail is missingSlow AOL dial-up connectionStarting up -- setting up a PC for the first timeStuck pixel fixerSysInternals publishes Rootkit RevealerTalk to the (AIM) wormTrouble could be on the (e)cardsWhat's your favourite Explorer replacement?Which is the UK's best dial-up ISP?Which version of Windows XP?Which Windows firewall?Which firewall -- White knight rescues KerioWindows for serous video editing?Many thanks to all the people who have commented (especially to the posts in bold). More comments welcome!
Pop JusticeAnyone in search of the spirit behind Britain's deceased pop bible, Smash Hits, should look no further. Redesigned to incorporate more bright pink, bright yellow and more pictures of Madonna in a leotard, Pop Justice is your one-stop knocking shop for video scoops, pisstakes of crap boy bands, frothy anticipation of the new Pet Shop Boys album and polls asking "What next for the pop sensation they're all calling Rachel Stevens". There's also a section for readers to reveal their dreams about pop stars - "I dreamt that I was playing cricket with McFly," writes someone called Jess. "It was all going very well until the ball turned into an otter."JDwww.popjustice.com
Derren BrownWhether you believe TV mentalist Derren Brown can manipulate people's thoughts, contact the dead or rearrange the chocolates in a box of Milk Tray just by winking at them, there is no denying he knows how to put together a flashy website. The opening page is full of subliminal flashes that may make you want to run down the street naked, then a beautiful, film-noir-style menu takes us you through tour dates, corporate bookings, his artwork (Christopher Walken portrait) and fan-sites.Johnny Deewww.derrenbrown.co.uk
Ang Lee's Oscar-nominated love story has found itself at the epicentre of the "trailer mash-up" phenomena atyoutube.com, where the real trailer has been remixed with clips from other films. Our favourite is Brokeback To The Future, which suggests there was more to Marty McFly and Doc's relationship. Also notable are Brokeback Squadron (tinyurl.com/c3yoj), which draws parallels to Tom Cruise's utterly heterosexual role in the macho epic Top Gun, and Broke Mac Mountain (tinyurl.com/7hkuh), documenting two men and their mournful computer. Elsewhere you can savour the delights of a Brokeback Happy Meal (tinyurl.com/9w4nn), see posters of bad ideas for sequels (tinyurl.com/cbr9s) or download your own sims (tinyurl.com/76phx) of Jack "Nasty" Twist and Ennis "shirt sniffer" Del Mar.
Ask a NinjaAccording to experts, there are two types of people in this world: ninjas and pirates. While the latter possess scaly skin and rudimentary speech skills but an excellent wardrobe, the former are obsessively clean, can move silently, remove the human heart with their bare hands and are fiercely intelligent. Here you may probe the mind of an average ninja and a discover what ninjas eat, how they disguise themselves and whether they have a need for love.Johnny Deewww.askaninja.com
MondayWoW comes outThe curse of AtariThinking with your planktonChatterboxTuesdayEver fallen in love with someone you shouldn't have fallen in love with?PS3 'secrets' 'revealed'Pong gets an audience at the White HouseLove Katamari?War on Terror: now you're in controlWednesdayNative Americans file claim against GUNNintendo announces web browser and TV tuner for DS"Browse the DSGuy fired for playing Solitaire at the officeEidos reveals new real-life LaraThursdayGeneva Convention takes issue with in-game power upsStick it to your bossFridayJFK Reloaded fires blanksThe ultimate in damage imitation: Burnout hits 360UMD goes AWOLSkipping Stone: sunk but not forgotten
and two turn up at once. As F-Secure notes today:Second Max OS X malware discovered. [Their typo, not mine.] The site says:OSX/Inqtana.A is a proof of concept worm for Mac OS X 10.4 (Tiger). It tries to spread from one infected system to others by using Bluetooth OBEX Push vulnerability CAN-2005-1333.Inqtana.A has not been met in the wild and it uses Bluetooth library that is locked into specific Bluetooth address and the library expires on 24 February 2006. So it is quite unlikely that Inqtana.A would be any kind of threat.Comment: No, I don't think this one is going to sell many copies of Mac anti-virus software either....
OSX/Leap.A is a Trojan/worm that targets Apple's OS X operating system, and is the first to be found in the wild. (Versions of Mac OS had their own malware before Apple switched to Unix.) Users are offered a file called latestpics.tgz, which is claimed to include pictures of the next version of OS X 10.5 (Leopard). If you unpack it, there's a script that pretends to be a JPEG file. Clicking that runs the script (which may well require you to enter your administrator password), and the worm tries to propagate itself via iChat's buddy list.Clearly OSX/Leap.A requires a lot of user intervention, but this kind of social engineering can work. At least one Windows virus arrived in a password protected zip file but users still managed to extract and run it to infect their PCs.There's a good account on theAmbrosia Software Web Board, which notes:It seems that this is more of a "proof of concept" implementation that could be utilized to actually do something in the future, depending on how successful it is, or it was simply done to garner attention/press. Which I'm sure it'll get.See alsoF-Secure's Web siteandSophos.
Your karma check for today:There once was a user that whined his existing OS was so blind he'd do better to pirate an OS that ran great but found his hardware declined.Please don't steal Mac OS! Really, that's way uncool. (C) Apple Computer, Inc."Apple confirmed Thursday it has included such a warning in its Intel-based computers since it started selling them in January," reportsAP.
Dale Begg-Smith has won gold in the winter Olympics for his skiing. Unfortunately that's not what the press is interested in: his post-medal press conference seems to have included just as many questions about the company that generated money that helped him train.Not surprising, perhaps, given that the company was involved in spyware and pop-ups and "drive-by downloads". Seethe Melbourne Age's story("the companies that he and brother Jason Begg-Smith are involved with are some of the most annoying aspects of the web... Two main companies - called AdsCPM and CPM Media - make money by skimming a small percentage each time an ad scores a hit or is directed to a client's site.") and theSpam Kings blog("AdsCPM Network (a.k.a. CPM Media Inc.), a firm notorious for using "driveby downloads," security exploits, and other cheap tricks to install spyware (including keyloggers and browser hijackers) on unsuspecting Internet users' computers.. I say the IOC ought to investigate Begg-Smith's business conduct to determine whether it tarnishes the reputation of the Olympic movement.")Perhaps they could reach a compromise and establish a new Olympic sport: seeing how many pop-ups you can kill in a certain amount of time. Or clean a spyware/adware-infested machine in the shortest possible time. Come on, we must have some readers who would be a shoo-in for a medal.
Users of Apple computers were today being warned to protect themselves after the existence of a new kind of worm virus emerged.The Leap-A worm, which spreads through instant messaging program iChat, is thought to be the first virus for the Apple platform. It poses as a series of pictures which, when opened, allows the worm through a security loophole in order to implant itself in other programs.Experts say it is easy for users to protect themselves, but that the arrival of malicious code should be a wake-up call to Mac users, who have been unaffected by viruses until now."The Leap-A worm isn't in itself a significant threat, but it should act as a helpful reminder that malware [malicious software] can be written for any computer," said Graham Cluley of anti-virus company Sophos."The bad news is that most people think the situation is going to get worse for Macintosh users, and more threats will be targeted against the Apple community. The good news is that most don't believe it will ever be as big a problem as the one Microsoft Windows faces."Microsoft's Windows, which commands more than 90% of the home computer market, is a far more established target for virus writers. As many as 200 new pieces of malicious Windows code are discovered every day, but until now hackers have shied away from attempting to infiltrate Apple machines. Experts believe, however, that the recent popularity of the company's iPod music player could have spurred the arrival of Leap-A.It is 20 years since the first widespread PC virus, Brain, hit computers around the world. But despite the lack of Apple viruses in the wild, users have been warned on previous occasions to be wary of potential threats. Bill Thompson, a technology columnist for the BBC, recently came under fire for saying that Mac owners were "too smug" about security issues.&#183;Charles Arthur, the editor of Technology Guardian, gives more detail about the wormhere.
I-play's fantastic little Java title, Skipping Stone, has just won the Best Mobile Game award at this year's 3GSM event in Barcelona. Released in the UK last summer and mentionedseveraltimeson this very site, Skipping Stone has attracted universal critical praise for its ingenious gameplay mechanic - you simply lob a pebble into the sea then hit a single button over and over again - at exactly the right moment - to keep the stone bouncing. Created by hugely talented Korean outfit, Gamevil, it's been a big hit over in the East......but not here. Sadly, Skipping Stone sank without a trace, I-play unable to convince mobile gamers to look beyond the lack of a big movie license and give it a go. Or perhaps it was down to the networks whose choices of front page games on their entertainment portals can often make or break new titles. Maybe there was no room for cute cartoon fun amid all thosebrilliantfilm tie-ins, retro games and casino cash-ins.Only 5% of mobile phone users currently bother to download Java games - and yet that seemingly enlightened minority chose to ignore one of the finest examples I've seen so far (along with Ancient Empires II, another much-awarded title last year, and Gameloft's Splinter Cell conversions). You can file this alongside Europe's obliviousness to We Love Katamari as quality videogaming incalcitrance bordering on masochism.
David Wonghas produced a great Friday afternoon time-waster.
"iDefense, the Reston, Va.-based vulnerability research company recently bought up by Verisign Inc., is offering $10,000 to any hackers who can find a previously unknown security hole in Microsoft's Windows operating system," reportsThe Washington Post."Here's the catch: The flaw must earn a "critical" rating from Redmond (Microsoft rates security holes as critical if they could be used by a computer worm to spread without any action on the part of the user). Details of the flaw must be submitted exclusively to iDefense by March 31. There is no limit on the number of prizes that can be paid: if five researchers find and report five different Windows flaws for which Microsoft later issues critical advisories, all five will get paid. More details arehere."As the article points out, iDefence has been paying bounties for a while, as have several other firms: "Mozilla also offers$500 Bug Bountyfor each original critical flaw researchers report about its products."Exploitable Windows bugs also have commercial value, with a hacker apparently selling info about the WMF exploit for $4,000.This month'sWindows patchincludes two critical bug-fixes, one for Windows Media Player, and a WMF fix for Windows 2000 Service Pack 4.
"The idea that Apple would ditch its own OS for Microsoft Windows came to me from Yakov Epstein, a professor of psychology at Rutgers University, who wrote to me convinced that the process had already begun. I was amused, but after mulling over various coincidences, I'm convinced he may be right. This would be the most phenomenal turnabout in the history of desktop computing," writesPC Magazine columnist John C. Dvorak.Dvorak predicted Apple moving to Intel chips before that happened, but Epstein's idea is so unlikely it's indistinguishable fromwrong. The move to Intel was something Apple looked at repeatedly during its history and an idea that had internal support. The move to Windows was only given serious consideration once -- when Gil Amelio's second-in-command Ellen Hancock went to Redmond -- and as she told me at the time, it didn't make a lot of sense.Way back then, Apple was trying to recover from its inability to write a proper desktop operating system and was shopping for one. The front runner was Be's BeOS, created under the direction ofJean-Louis Gasseeafter he left Apple to do it right*. But NT was also considered before Apple plumped for NeXT's NextStep (and also got the failing company's boss, Stephen P Jobs).Apple bought NeXT for $402 million in December 1996, and NextStep became the basis of OS X, but it still took Apple around five years of hard graft to get the desktop version out. Apple might be able to move the user environment and apps to NT in less than five years, but why? You can argue that Intel chips are faster and cheaper, but it's hard to argue that NT is faster, cheaper and more robust than Free BSD. I don't think even Mr Jobs, the undisputed emperor of snake-oil salesmen, could manage that.* Technically, Be OS was "the Amiga done right" but one of Gassee's incentives was dumping the historical crud in Mac OS.(Charles Arthuradds: the Dvorak piece has beenlampooned rather nicelyby The Apple Blog, which is not - one might as well mention - anything to do with Apple the company, apart from being about it.)
A special lunchtime edition of Chatterbox.
For those whose sadistic tendencies are not sated by the knowledge that the lout playing his iPod at an egregious volume is signing a delivery note for early-onset deafness and tinnitus, we bring you the Sonic Teenager Deterrent. It may sound like it comes straight from the Gene Roddenberry Futuristic But Slightly Unconvincing Weapons Department, but it is in fact a pretty accurate description of the device's modus operandi.Invented by a former electronics apprentice at British Aerospace, the device emits an extremely high-pitched noise (16kHz) which sounds like a very angry insect (hence its nickname, the Mosquito) or, alternatively, a very badly played violin. Those who can hear it find it so uncomfortable that they have to leave the vicinity. However, it is so high pitched that only people under the age of 20 can hear it, thus making it ideal for driving disruptive teenagers out of shops.There is a scientific explanation for this. "The ability to hear high-frequency sounds deteriorates from about the age of 18," explains Vicki Kirwin, an audiology specialist with the National Deaf Children's Society. "It's because of the delicacy of the hair cells in the cochlea, the inner ear, which detect them. We're all familiar with the concept of the elderly losing their hearing, but really it starts much younger. But it's only when it gets to a certain level and affects the frequency range we use in normal speech and communication - 500-4,000Hz - that we begin to notice it."Shopkeepers were among the first to embrace the invention, but the police and local authorities are becoming increasingly alive to the possibilities offered by the system, which could be fitted in any trouble spots and switched on when suspicious hooded elements begin to gather.But, even my aged ears can hear you ask, why stop there? Why indeed? Surely the world is crying out for a handheld, multigenerational version of the Mosquito that can, with a few recalibrations, be used to disperse whatever undesirables exist within one's immediate environment. Surrounded by clear-eyed, pink-livered, dewy-skinned twentysomethings? Set phaser to deliver at 14kHz the sound of parents offering advice on pensions, bank managers calling in &pound;20,000 of student loans, and Tom Baker stage-whispering, "You feel the first dark and wretched stirrings of the fearsome, awful knowledge that your best years are already behind you and that it is from here nought but a long, slow march into the grave."Suddenly playing host to a gaggle of braying thirtysomethings? Move the dial to 12Khz and deliver a 90-second blast of "Why do you stand here laughing while your ovaries shrivel and your sperm die in their thousands? Gottahaveababygottahaveababygottahaveababygottahaveababy."A clutch of boring fortysomethings will scatter to the four winds rather than be zapped by "House prices? Holiday villas? Why don't you tell them how you haven't had sex for 10 years and spend your evenings dreaming about illegal adventures with your adolescent offspring's friends?"Fiftysomethings can be sent rushing back to their homes and Basildon Bond by playing a fake recording of the controller of Radio 4 saying he's planning to torch Jenni Murray and replace the Archers theme tune with the sound of her screams and the crackling flames, while anyone over retirement age can be happily eased on their way if you pose them, at around the 10kHz mark, the question "What are you going to do? Continue to squander the rich array of opportunities offered to you by this uniquely bounteous planet as you have done for three-quarters of a lifetime, or spend the kids' inheritance instead? Do it, squander it - remember you're nearly dead, nearlydead, nearlydeadnearlydeadnearlydeadnearlydea ...".
"With sales falling below expectations, Sony Pictures Home Entertainment, Paramount Home Entertainment and Warner Home Video are cutting back on movie releases for the PSP," reportsVariety."While comedies that appeal to the core young male gamer demo are doing well, execs say other PSP movies simply aren't selling."There's an obvious problem: people don't want to pay for big bucks movies in a non-standard disc format they can't use anywhere else, so it makes more sense to buy a DVD that will play on any DVD player, a PC, PlayStation or Xbox. The article says Sony is "touting a new adapter that would allow a user to watch a PSP pic on a TV," which would help, but probably isn't enough.The less obvious problem is shelf space in retailers. The article says:"With standard definition, HD DVD, Blu-ray and PSP, all these formats take up space," said one retail source. "Consumers aren't going to buy three or four configurations of the same movie. Something has to give."It makes more sense to download PSP movies and just delete them after you've watched them. But the studios will have to come up with something that makes it attractive to download and pay for content instead of just getting it from a peer-to-peer network, so don't hold your breath.
There's been a lot of discussion following the discovery of a bona fide worm for OSX -"Leap-A"or perhaps"Oomp-A"(depending which AV firm's deconstruction you read) - which spreads via iChat and tries to spread via other methods too.AsJohn Gruber points out, the mechanism that it uses to spread itself is by inserting its code into applications, by insinuating itself into them as they launch through a folder called "InputManagers" (sic).There are actually two of these folders: one in your "home" directory (which is where all your documents etc live) and another at the higher level of the directory hierarchy. (Just imagine I'm waving my hands around as you read this.)As Gruber explained some time ago, the InputManagers folder is apotentially dangerousone. It has been exploited in a sort-of-good way to create "Smart Crash Reports", where if an application crashes then the details will get sent back to the developers as well as to Apple.But because that folder also lets code inside it be loaded potentially intoeveryapplication that you (as a user) run, there are big risks. And now someone has clearly read the articles and come up with a worm that can exploit those foibles.So how do you protect yourself? It's fairly simple. Assuming you have an administrator login on your machine, first go to your home folder. Go to "Library" and look inside that for "InputManagers". Highlight it, click Apple-i (for information) and look at the "Ownership and Permissions" bit. Then set the owner to "system" (you'll probably have to give your password for this) and set "group" access to "Read only".What does this do? It means that if anything tries to change your InputManagers folder, it will bring up a dialog asking for your permission. Be wary if you're not installing something that you'd expect to ask this.Do the same for the InputManagers folder that you'll find at the "Macintosh HD" level of your machine, and you should be covered until another hole shows up.But what this example shows most of all is that social engineering can trump good engineering. OSX is fairly well written from a security point of view, but the existence of the InputManagers folder and the potential to let them load code into any application isn't really good. It will be interesting to see if Apple lets this loophole exist much longer. Yes, InputManagers can be useful - I run an application called MenuCalendarClock which pretty much needs it, and people who use Saft to enhance Safari rely on it. But if hackers can exploit it, is it that useful? Because where one bit of malware goes, more are sure to follow.
I was watching28 Days Lateron UMD this morning, which is almost ironic consideringthe newsthat the major studios are cutting back on their UMD release schedules. Of course, any sane person could have seen this was going to happen. Why would anyone pay double - UMDs are usually twice as much as DVDs - to watch something on a smaller screen. If portability is that important then it is relatively easy to rip a DVD to memory stick. Yes, you'll need a 1 or 2 GB stick but the prices of these, well the former at least, is about the same as 2 UMD movies.Of course, there is no denying the quality of the UMD format. The PSP is a genuinely viable proposition when it comes to watching video on the go - the screen is the real deal. But the simple truth is that people don't value the ability to watch a film on the go enough to tempt them to buy the UMD version over the DVD.Sony's rather desperate attempt to rectify this includes considering whether to enable the PSP to display UMD movies on a TV. Er, right. So we have to plug in a PSP (the battery life makes this a necessity), connect to the TV and then watch video that will be a lot lower resolution and quality than if we simply watched a DVD. Nice one.If there is any hope for UMD it comes in more niche content - apparently comedy is the big seller - and a reduction in price. An obvious arrangement would be to see UMD and DVD double-packs that give punters a choice of where they consume their media. But when you throw in downloads as well - iTunes is only the start - you have to fear for the future of UMD.
With Need For Speed: Most Wanted and Project Gotham Racing 3 among the most impressive and best-selling of Xbox 360's initial run-out, is there room for one more high-profile urban racer? Well yes, if it'sBurnout Revengethe latest incarnation of Criterion's groundbreaking series.Recently, I talked to the game's Executive Producer, Matt Webster, about transporting all that automotive carnage to Microsoft's shiny new machine. Along with some lipsmacking Live features, it seems the team has gone all out to bringJG Ballard's vision of car crash porn to the next-generation.Thisis going to hurt...You're following two high profile racing titles - PGR and NFS - onto Xbox 360. Have your team had chance to take in the pros and cons of those titles, and how they exploit the 360 hardware? If so, what have they learned?Of course. We followed the NFS development on 360 fairly closely once we finished the PS2 and Xbox versions of Revenge, and clearly were keen to see what PGR3 was doing. However, we had a pretty clear direction of our own to work towards. Personally, I think that NFS is one of the best games on 360 in terms of the overall experience. I think that team really nail it with visuals and audio.Did you start the Xbox 360 code from scratch or have you been able to port over the foundations of the game from the Xbox version?Our aim was to create the showcase version of Revenge, and that was obviously a game that already existed on other platforms. Much of the foundations for the game were brought over from Xbox, but of course there's a ton of work that needs to be done to get a game onto 360 with rendering, audio, Live etc so it needed a significant effort. We spent much of our time and resources looking at the new features that we wanted to execute on, and of course in the areas that are most important to us, which is when a car wrecks.How long did it take to get things running on Xbox 360?With our development framework, you can get things running fairly quickly although they'll look pretty ugly! We had a core team on 360 at the same time as development work was closing for Revenge on the other platforms. They were looking at the physics systems, the shaders, online, etc. Actually we looked at the early versions just the other day and it's pretty funny when you see how the game looked the very first time it was running!What have you added to Burnout Revenge for the 360 instalment?When looking at what we wanted to do to make this version the showcase, we knew that we needed more than just moving the game to HD. However, we also knew that we had 10/10 gameplay and content. So we looked at the areas that we wanted to excel in and Live was one of those areas.Microsoft were kinda pitching it that you weren't getting all of the available power of the next generation if it was hooked into the net. So we chose to dovetail in to that and make online a focus. Of course, we wanted to take the visuals to a new level, and audio as well for that matter. We hear a lot about HD, but not a lot of people are talking about sound can be enhanced creatively with this hardware.How will you be exploiting the improved Live facilities?We took advantage of the unique relationship between EA and Microsoft in the online arena. We've created two brand new features for the 360 version. We refer to them as Live Revenge and Save &amp; Share.Live Revenge, put simply, is a system that persistently tracks who you take out (and who takes you out) online and then tracks how those relationships change over time. The way that this is presented to the player is in introductions and communication.For example, you and I play a game for the first time online. You take me down. Invisibly you are added to my Enemies List, this is Burnout's version of the Friend's list! Next time we enter a lobby together, the game recognises this fact and tells us that there is a relationship between us. When we go to the next event, my game shows me your car, and your gamertag and essentially taunts me, it tells me that you are one up on me and that I need to settle the score. Whilst this is going on, YOUR game is showing you MY car and gamertag and telling you that you are one up, that you should press your advantage, and that I'm going to be coming after you!Essentially the game is facilitating creating grudges between players. We continue to race and fight, you take me down again, you go two up, and so on....but there's a twist. We took a leaf from the way sports fans create their rivalries. It doesn't matter that Man Utd beat Man City for the last three games that they played, all that matters is thatMan City beat Man Utdin the last game. So for us, you could be 25 takedowns up on me, if I get you once, the scores are settled!And this is where it ratchets up. The next time we come together, we're shown as Arch Rivals! So the game calls out players that you are up on, players that are up on you, players that you have settled scores with in the past, and of course, the common enemy, the player with the highest rank, so everyone always has a target!We realised that most online games were just about the experience, nothing we really remembered. We wanted to get people feeling more deeply about the game that they are playing, for it to not be just about winning, but for taking out people AND winning... that's the Burnout way!Save &amp; Share is also a product of our relationship with Microsoft. Burnout always has great action and there's always tons of fans wanting replays. But they don't want replays, they want the content of these replays, the highlights, the concentrated action. So we've create replays of every event in the World Tour that the player competes in. They are able to have simple control over the replay, fast forward, skip back, pause etc. Then the cool but is that once you have found the part that you want, you hit the record button and save up to 30 seconds of that action to HDD or MU.So this gets you the save part of the feature. I can the view my clips and if I think one is cool, I can simply hit the SHARE button to put it into my own server space online. Every Burnout Revenge 360 gamer has space for up to 3 clips to be shared online for their Friends to go an view. You can also RECOMMEND clips to your friends. We've created a really simple system that allows you to see what your friends are sharing but not only that, to help players that may only have one or two friends, we've created a Burnout community. Every player that you have competed with online gets added to a Recent Burnout Players list, here you can browse clips that they may be sharing, you can download and recommend their clips as well. So it can potentially become viral. If you get a clip that is downloaded or recommended enough, you can get your action into the Top 20 list..and of course, there's an achievement attached to that!!What specific technical features of the hardware have most impressed the dev team?Apparently the VMX unit is a nice piece of kit! This allowed us to do the localised scratching of the car for example (amongst a lot of other things)! I think that people are just scratching the surface of what is available to us, as happens with every generation. I mean, look at PS2, if you go back in time and show someone who bought a PS2 on day one a copy of Black, just imagine what their face would look like!Have you added new features to the physics engine to take advantage of the extra computing power? How will crashes be improved as a result?One of our goals was, of course, to make the crashes on 360 look like nothing else. We rebuilt all of the vehicles to add more detail and therefore more ability to wreck. In addition to the deformation system that bends and twists the cars in a crash, we've added scratching, scorching and crumpling to them. Watch the cars take scratchses and crumple when they take non-fatal hits and of course how they scorch when an explosion goes off! We've also add many more particles to the crashes, every car has discreet car parts that are ejected and we do this based on how Hollywood creates car wrecks, as that is most peoples frame of reference, rather than real life.What are the key new effects open to you on Xbox 360? How are you making increased use of things like HDR lighting, subdivision surfaces and other demanding techniques?One thing that we really went for was our Per-pixel Vector Motion Blur. We took the decision to create a real motion blur, rather than a full screen effect that most people apply. What you see in the game is blur that is applied per pixel based on the direction and velocity that it's moving in. This made a massive difference to our sense of speed in the game. When we first turned it one, it made the 160 cars (the slowest) seem like the fastest, so it needed a little tuning, but it makes such a difference to the game that it's worth the cost per frame!Do you feel the Xbox 360 version of Revenge evolves the series in gameplay terms? How?I do. All you have to do is play the game online and see Live Revenge in action. Personally I think that it's a feature that a lot of games can benefit from and I think that we've only just scratched the surface in how it helps players feel more deeply about the game that they are playing.We set out, as I said earlier, to make the showcase version. So with the audio, the new crashing systems, the higher resolutions, the lighting, the tints that we apply, the particle effects and the fact that we've tightened a number of events, and added 10 new crash junctions that were just not do-able on current-gen then I think that we've achieved what we set out to do.Burnout Revenge is due on Xbox 360 in March.
This has been a week of controversies, from Native Americans togay rights to Geneva Convention sticklers, and to continue the trend,gamepoliticshas covered the continuing legacy which the now-cancelledJFK Reloadedgame has left in the minds of game-fearing US politicians.For those who were lucky enough to miss it, the downloadable game challenged the trigger happy to accurately recreate the shots fired by Lee Harvey Oswald which hit John F Kennedy in November 1963. For a $10 downloading fee, players had the chance to line their sights on Kennedy's digitised noggin, and aim for a $10,000 prize. Charming.However, as with other similarlyattention-grabbingadditions to computer gaming (yeah right, developers Traffic hasno ideathat this was going to cause headlines), this little ditty keeps playing like a broken record in the courtrooms of America. From GP:Numerous American politicians have partially justified attempts at legislating video game content by claiming they were trying to prevent kids from buying a game where the object is to assassinate the president....Readers may recall that Governor Rod Blagojevich denounced JFK Reloaded in order to help pass the Safe Games Illinois Act in 2005. More recently, State Senator Vi Simpson of Indiana has repeated the assassination mantra in her efforts to create game legislation in her state. Simpson said, "Right now, kids can walk into just about any store and get their hands on a video game in which they can shoot police officers, use drugs, steal cars, rape women or even assassinate a president. That's frightening to say the least."Regardless of whether the politicos get the facts right or not (as GP pedantically points out, many of the accusations lump this game in with others which can be physically purchased in stores), this title is another example of how bad press sticks in the heads of the interactively-ignorant and can be used against the enlightened in a court of law.
Dixons, the UK high street retailer, says it will pre-load "selected MP3 players" with free music and give new bands a break. The 60 preloaded songs will come fromPulse Rated, a satellite and Internet radio station that plays music from "unsigned and emerging artists worldwide". Examples include Death of Fashion, Pilots of Japan, The Fused, Skitchy, Phoenix Quarter, Donderdag, Penny Foster, Leeann Akers, Lucas and Imperial Leisure.Bryan Magrath, Dixons' marketing director, says: "We won't be giving Simon Cowell sleepless nights yet but we do believe we can play a role in helping break new and emerging music talent."The selected MP3 players are Logik's 512MB and 1GB Flash models, retailing at 39.99 and 64.99.
If life without Google is hard to imagine for most web users, life without the blog search engineTechnorati.comis probably unthinkable for inhabitants of the blogosphere. Where Google lets users find what they are looking for, Technorati enables bloggers to find out something even more precious: who has been linking to their posts.Technorati is a classic case of scratching a personal itch. Back in 2002, David Sifry was a 33-year-old serial entrepreneur in Silicon Valley. After gaining a degree in computer science, a stint in Japan and another on Wall Street, he'd already launched a couple of companies and was busy setting up another. Along the way, he'd discovered blogs.But, as Sifry says, blogging inevitably raises two questions: "What's everyone saying about me - what's the conversation going on around my stuff?" He tried to find out using traditional search engines: "They all failed miserably," he says. They failed because their approach - based around counting the number of links to a web page - "is fundamentally biased against things that are new, because it takes time for links to accumulate pointing to something." But in the blog world, it is precisely the new things - the most recent posts on other blogs - that are the most interesting, especially if you want to join in the conversation.Traditional search engines send out a software "spider" to index all the pages on a website, whether or not they have changed. This is a huge task, so the time between visits of the spider is usually days - hopeless for the fast-moving world of blogs. A better method would be to index blogs as soon as they are updated, and only then. Sifry realised that a mechanism was already in place that would allow him to do precisely that.'Ping'"A huge amount of credit has to go to Dave Winer," Sifry says. Winer was one of the ur-bloggers and also the author of an early blogging program called Radio Userland. Winer had built a feature into Radio Userland that would prove key to Sifry's new kind of blog search. Winer "created something known as a ping," Sifry explains. "Whenever anybody who was using his tool, Radio Userland would update their blog, [the software] would automatically update a site called weblogs.com," owned by Winer. "It would send off a little notification message" - the ping - "saying 'hello, Bob's thoughts just got updated'." So all Sifry had to do was create a spider that went to weblogs.com, downloaded which blogs had been updated and then indexed those new blog entries. This formed the basis of what became Technorati (chosen because an earlier idea, "Digerati", was unavailable as a domain name).Sifry then approached all the leading blog software vendors and said: "Look, if you guys build this [ping mechanism] into your tool, and have it ping Technorati [as well as weblogs.com] we'll go out and index your content literally within seconds of when the user posts." The software companies readily agreed. First, because "everybody who writes a blog wants to get found," as Sifry points out. Second, he says, because "I literally would write the code for people."Rapid programming was crucial for the creation of Technorati itself, which began in November 2002 as Sifry's "weekend project" in his basement, alongside his latest startup, consulting to pay the bills and the arrival of his second child. Sifry's hacker past helped - one of his previous startups was Linuxcare, which had employed half the coding stars of the open-source world - but so did the ready availability of well-honed GNU/Linux software such as the Apache web server, the MySQL database and the PHP and Perl scripting languages, collectively known as the LAMP stack.The constant time pressure Sifry was under had an important consequence. A few months after Technorati was launched, the 2003 invasion of Iraq took place. "It hit me like a lightning bolt," Sifry explains. "I don't have time to figure out what's the most interesting stuff to read, but there's like a million other bloggers, they know."What if I took the four thousand or so different mainstream news sources that are out there," he continues, "and then looked at all the people in the blogophere: what are the stories they are linking to the most in the last three hours?" The result was the first of what Sifry calls "discovery products", which appear on Technorati's home page."This is one of those things that I think is fundamentally different about Technorati," compared to Google or Yahoo, he says, since it is based on "understanding people and understanding time" - not just on static links between web pages.Unique insightTechnorati's way of tracking blogs - 27m of them at last count - gives Sifry a unique insight into this world, which he reports on in his occasional State of the Blogosphere, posted on the Technorati blog. As well as problems like splogs (spam blogs) and spings (spam pings), one last week touched on the issue of blogfade: the fact that 50% of new bloggers have given up after three months. Sifry is not unduly worried. "The number that I find indicative of the true growth of the blogosphere is the number of daily posts. This is a much better way of being able to watch how much time people in aggregate are putting into writing on their blogs. Today, we're tracking about 1.2m posts a day." A year ago, it was a third of that.Other notable trends include the growth of blogging in eastern Asia: last month, more posts were made in Japanese than in any other language - English-language posts represent about 28% of the blogosphere. In part, this is because Japanese bloggers tend to post lots of shorter entries, a habit that is spreading, Sifry says. "More people are using blogs as a sort of conversational medium, as opposed to the long-winded 'here's my 500 to 1,000-word essay' medium." As a result, the average number of links in each post is dropping.Another development concerns who is using Technorati, alongside all those bloggers checking their links and the time-challenged looking for news. "We have a lot of companies that use this service who want to be able to track 'what are people saying about my company? What are they saying about my products? Hell, what are they saying about my competitor's products?'" Other regular visitors include the "cool-hunters", desperate for the next trend in music or fashion, and journalists seeking stories and sources.Technorati makes its money from sponsorship and advertising on the main site, as well as syndication revenues from titles such as the Washington Post, Newsweek and Der Spiegel: alongside a news story, Technorati provides real-time links to who is blogging about it.Sifry's company is still privately held: "We did a little bit of an angel round with some smart Silicon Valley investors in 2003," he explains, and in 2004 he got funding from two venture capital firms.Sifry is evasive about any possible stock market float, and laughs uproariously at the idea of being made an offer he can't refuse by somebody like Google. But given the rise of blogging as the new face of the web, and Technorati's central position in the blogosphere, going public or being acquired is surely just a matter of time.Curriculum VitaeAge37EducationGraduated in 1991 with a degree in computer science from Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland.Career1991-94Mitsubishi Electric, Japan1994-96Advanced Portfolio Technologies, Wall Street, New YorkThen, as an independent consultant, Sifry founded:1996Securemote1998Linuxcare2002Sputnik2003TechnoratiHobbiesAmateur photography. Examples of Sifry's work can be found atwww.flickr.com/photos/dsifryGlyn Moody blogs atopendotdotdot.blogspot.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Default settings are the work of the devil. That sounds like a strong statement, but believe me, after wrestling with a bit of kit that was supposed to make my home safer but succeeded only in taking down my wireless network, I'm not overstating the case.The culprit was Motorola's Homesight Kit, marketed as a groovy hi-tech way to keep an eye on your house in case burglars have broken in, or water pipes have frozen in your absence.Being lazy, I decided to use the setup wizard. Five minutes later, I had no electronic watchdog, and no wireless network. And no internet connection or file sharing between computers. Nothing.What happened? Obviously, the wizard took the obvious option and set itself to channel 11, which is the default for just about everything wireless. But not only is my network on channel 11 (yup, the default setting) but so too are the three wireless networks belonging to my neighbours. Result: collapse of stout channel into a mumbling, uncomunicating mess.Microsoft is a default fiend too. When you have a new PC, you are by default the administrator, with superpowers to install anything and do anything - delete the registry, reformat the hard drive, create havoc. If you don't create user accounts - and who does? - anybody sitting down at that machine can do anything they like. Let a teenager near it and the next thing you know, it's full of spyware, trojans and worms.And let's not forget custom software. Daniel Jalkut details his wrestlings with his ISP, on his blog,www.red-sweater.com. Verizon's "free upgrade" to his browser zapped all his bookmarks. Jakult's mistake? He let the installer "do its thing all over my computer".Still, at least he had an internet connection. Though so will most of your neighbours if you let the default settings run when you set up your wireless network. You'd think that in a spirit of security, router manufacturers would set their defaults to enable security settings. But no. Run the wizard and you will have a network that cheerfully broadcasts its identifying name to any Tom, Dick or Harry. The username and password on your router will probaby both be "admin".It will broadcast on channel 11. It won't ask you to register each piece of hardware with the router so only computers of your choosing can connect to it, nor will it insist that you give it a network key to secure it. While you congratulate yourself on how easy it was to get it up and running, unscrupulous neighbours will cheer too, because they also will be able to connect to your network.God only knows why they call the things "wizards". They're more like malevolent demons.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
This story has already been covered intoday's Technology sectionbut it's one of today'sfree Walll Street Journal storiesand it has more information and speculation. The WSJ says:Now Amazon, the world's No 1 online retailer, is in advanced talks with the four global music companies about a digital-music service with a range of features designed to set it apart. Among them: Amazon-branded portable music players, designed and built for the retailer, and a subscription service that would deeply discount and preload those devices with songs, not unlike mobile phones that are included with subscription plans as part of the deal.Further on, it adds:Among the manufacturers Amazon has mentioned as likely partners for a subsidized hardware offering is Samsung Electronics Co., whose flair for stylish design is raising hopes among music executives that the initiative could create a strong alternative to iPod. A representative at Samsung's headquarters in Seoul, South Korea, couldn't be reached for comment.Comment: A subscription service would have some advantages over Apple's iTunes Music Store. For example, users need not worry about deleting their downloads accidentally -- Apple refuses to replace them, even though it knows you have downloaded them. Also. users can easily replace inferior quality downloads (ie almost all of them -- they're less than CD quality) when new hihger-bit-rate or lossless versions become available.
The Financial Times has publisheda transcript of an interviewwith Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates at the RSA Security Conference in San Jose. Gates mentions the nine month delay to Vista, due to taking a year out to tackle security issues, which he now reckons take up a third of development resources, talks about not charging for emails, and defends his position in China.It's interesting that Gates understands the difference between authentication and identification. He also says anti-trust legislation is preventing Microsoft from including some extra features, such as anti-virus checking, in the operating system. He says:Yes. The decision to leave AV outside - there's so many factors that weigh into it. But certainly, we looked at that as one factor, how people will respond. Remember, the whole notion of improving software and making it better for users has been attacked because it makes it tough for competitors.That's the basic framework we have, where we're kind of saying if we put new things in and don't raise the price, it's there, that's competition, that's beneficial to users, and other people are saying no, let's protect us competitors. That's a tricky framework. Clearly if that was all we thought about we wouldn't have put all this new stuff in, but we have.There's also an informal 17-minutevideo interview with Gateson Microsoft's Channel 9. He plugsMix06and Office 12, and says "mea culpa" on the browser issue. Although not a TV watcher, he confesses to a 24 addiction.
