Sophisticated "phishing" attacks that lure PC users to fake websites are prompting security experts to question whether the current password-based security systems are adequate to cope with the growth in fraud. And if the banks fail to act, this could undermine confidence in online banking, and the whole e-commerce industry.UK banks now have more than 14 million customers who benefit from 24-hour access to their accounts from PCs with a web browser. Although subscriber growth has slowed recently, the total number of subscribers has doubled since June 2002.However, phishing - the activity of gaining passwords and other personal data to use to remove funds illegally - is a multimillion pound problem. The most common example is the use of fake emails that purport to come from your bank. These invite you to confirm your password on fake bank web pages set up by the fraudsters. Internet security firm Messagelabs says it is intercepting 50,000 such emails and more than 80 new phishing websites every day.Around &#163;4.5m has already been refunded to about 2,000 customers, according to the Association for   Payment Clearing Services (Apacs).The problem for banks is that fraudsters are getting smarter. They have started using virus technologies, such as sending emails with Trojan keylogging software that tracks your keystrokes or even grabs screenshots while you are connected to your bank. By logging your actions, they are able to get all the password details they need to enter your account. Clearly, under these circumstances, any system that relies on a single unchanging password is inherently insecure.Nearly all banks use a password system that requires two or three pieces of information to control access to accounts: user name, password and a third item. Many banks - including Barclays, Lloyds and First Direct - ask users for a random selection of characters from the password, and sometimes the third item is the answer to a selection of pre-agreed questions, such as: What is the name of your dog?But what happens if you are the victim of phishing? At the moment, the banks say they will reimburse anyone "inadvertently" defrauded through phishing. However, last weekend, Apacs revealed that the banks may withdraw this policy if   they believe customers have not paid sufficient heed to the safety advice available.An Apacs spokeswoman, Sandra Quinn, says the banks are also looking closely at stronger forms of security such as dynamic (variable) passwords. "Our e-commerce group is looking at it. The key issue is whether banks should collaborate on one system or develop their own systems," she says."We have seen a massive increase in phishing so there is agreement that something must be done. The most likely outcome is a pilot project later this year," says Quinn.A variable password system requires the bank to issue a token device that can generate a unique numeric password each time the customer wants to connect online.   This random number is automatically synchronised with the bank's server. Alternatively, a card reader can be connected to the user's PC.Identification specialists agree that another level of authentication will make a big difference. "The adoption of an additional authentication step for high-risk transactions, such as making a payment to a new account, could dramatically reduce the financial exposure to the customer," says Paul Butterworth, product marketing director at Aspace Solutions, an identity management firm."Unless banks rapidly introduce anti-phishing technologies, fraud will rise to a level where internet banking becomes a commercial liability."But there are two problems with this approach: cost and user acceptance. Tokens cost about &#163;35 per   customer, and cost even more to administer, maintain and replace. There is also evidence that customers prefer simple password systems, though this may change if phishing attacks continue to increase. It is also unknown how well a token system would scale up to serve millions of users if a unified system were adopted by the banks, as is the case with Chip and Pin, the new authorisation system for credit cards.What seems most likely is that tokens will be used first with business customers. In Australia, Westpac Bank has already told its business customers they will have to use tokens if their transactions involve more than Aus$5,000 (&#163;2,073) in one day. Previously, it had a Aus$25,000 limit. The bank is also thought to be considering tokens for its 1.5m personal online customers.Jon Fell, a partner at Masons Solicitors, says banks need to take security more seriously. "Banks are waking up to this, but you have to wonder if they could do more. The problem is they are between a rock and a hard place with phishing. What they really want is the government to spend more on educating people of the dangers. The problem is, recent research by Apacs found that 4% of people said they would reply with password details to an email if they thought it was from their bank."All the evidence suggests the phishers are capable of constantly developing new ways of using social engineering to fool customers. Raising consumer awareness will help, but it would have to be a continuous process, with new lessons being learned to cope with each new form of attack.Few experts believe this approach will be as effective, in the long run, as a move to variable passwords and the widespread adoption of secure email technology.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Today's move by Ofcom to force BT to open up its networks to other operators will unleash a new wave of investment in broadband from rival internet service providers including AOL and Wanadoo.The media regulator's promise to get tough with BT if it does not provide "equality of access" to its network has encouraged the telecoms firm's rivals that it is safe for them to invest tens of millions of pounds to develop the infrastructure for their broadband services.Both AOL and Wanadoo welcomed Ofcom's proposals for increasing competition in the telecoms market and said they were planning major investment in broadband.Under the Ofcom proposals, competitors will be able to gain greater access to BT's "local loop" infrastructure - the connection between homes or businesses and its networks.Internet service providers like Wanadoo, AOL and Tiscali will be able to control access to the lines that run from telephone exchanges into their customers' homes by buying the connections from BT in a process known as "unbundling".That will allow them to offer faster broadband services and tailor their products and prices to suit their customers' needs more effectively."It gives you the certainty that you need to make a big investment. There's no point investing vast sums of money if BT can change the rules and torpedo your plans, which was the situation a year ago," said a spokesman for AOL UK.He added that AOL would be investing in unbundling and had assembled a project team to draw up plans.Wanadoo, the ISP owned by France Telecom, also confirmed today it would be building its broadband network through unbundling."The new framework defined by Ofcom is very positive. Unbundling, by transferring control of the consumer connection to Wanadoo, will enable Wanadoo to develop consumer broadband services, adding functionality, flexibility and pricing advantages for home users," a Wanadoo spokesman said.NTL and Cable &amp; Wireless have already confirmed that they will be unbundling, while the other players already in the market are Video Networks and Easynet.Roger Lynch, the chief executive of Video Networks - which operates the HomeChoice digital TV, video on demand and internet service delivered via broadband - said Ofcom's proposals suggested his company's confidence in investing ahead of a firm move by the regulator to open up the telecoms market "was well founded".However, Mr Lynch sounded a note of caution about how effective Ofcom's proposals would prove in practice."If Ofcom and the government are truly committed to building broadband Britain, providers such as Video Networks must be given equal access to the deepest levels of BT's infrastructure, including the local loop. This is the only way to ensure sustainable infrastructure competition," he said.The United Kingdom Internet Federation was more critical, saying Ofcom had "missed a golden opportunity" to open up the telecoms market to greater competition."Ofcom is overseeing a regulatory environment which does not encourage competition, innovation, or investment. The current regime applies to a market that has gone and we have no modern replacement for the new market realities," a spokesman said.BT welcomed Ofcom's consultation document on the future reguation of the telecoms market, which backed away from breaking the company up in favour of a redefined regulatory regime."We believe the 'new regulatory contract' which Ofcom describes has the potential to encourage investment and innovation. A move away from the micro-regulation which Ofcom agrees has been bad for consumers and the industry will benefit everyone," BT said.Tiscali's UK chief executive, Mary Turner, said: "It is encouraging that Ofcom has recognised the current failings in terms of delivering real equality of access for providers competing with BT."It is now vital that this translates to actions that will address the specific issues of equivalence in terms of products and processes to ensure we are operating in a fair and competitive market."A number of ISPs yesterday handed BT proposals of the locations where they want to unbundle, which are concentrated on densely populated urban areas.At the moment BT is the gatekeeper to all but 16,000 of the UK's 25m phone lines, and charges for access to them. The telecoms operator suffered a blow six months ago when it was forced to lower the prices it charges for access to its network.Ofcom is aiming to get a system in place next year that will see 1 million lines unbundled a year.In France, which is leading the way in unbundling, this process is happening at the rate of more than 1 million lines a year.French consumers are able to buy broadband at 15Mb speed for about £20 a month, whereas the best deal on offer to British broadband users is about £40 a month for 2Mb, through cable services rather than using telephone lines.For those getting broadband via the telephone, BT offers a top speed of 1Mb and is conducting trials for a 2Mb service.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
"Ofcom has challenged BT to come up with proposals for opening up its networks to competitors to help speed the growth of telecoms services including broadband - or face a possible Competition Commission investigation," reportsMediaGuardian."The communications regulator has backed off from calling for an immediate break-up of BT, noting that most of the company's competitors in the telecoms industry felt that this approach would be "too disruptive and expensive".""Ofcom said it instead favoured working with BT to deliver "real equality of access" to its networks and called on the company to come up with "prompt and clear proposals" about how this could be achieved."
ZDNetinterviews former White House adviser and cybersecurity tsar Richard Clarke:"Some people, when they talk about security, they use 9/11 as a benchmark. They say unless it's going to result in a 9/11, where we have 3,000 body bags, it's no big deal. (But) you know there are lots of things in our life that are important, and there are important security problems that don't create 3,000 body bags."
Prince of Persia: Warrior WithinPC, &#163;34.99 Ubi Soft*****There was a time when if you wanted to destroy a game's credibility at birth, you just had to shout "interactive movie!" during the launch party. It was the kiss of death, a clear admission that gameplay had been sacrificed to bad actors saying terrible lines. So, if I told you this latest chapter in the Prince of Persia saga plays like an interactive movie, I'd have to add that the director has done a good job mastering most of Spielberg's lexicon. This game dares to take on Hollywood and occasionally wins.From the opening salvo, when your galleon is rammed by a demon ghost-ship, forcing you to learn the new two-weapon fighting system on the run, Warrior Within never lets up. Borrowing ideas from every action movie from Master and Commander and The Matrix, it is basically a beat-'em-up with platform game, arcade adventure and first person shooter thrown in. It is also stitched together audaciously.To PC owners starved of console-inspired games, it is a rare treat to find the best example converted so proficiently. Special praise must go to your Time Stretching abilities, which make the game a sheer delight to watch, especially when slicing a zombie in half with a scimitar.In due course, you will find the director's influence too confining and the experience lacking the freeform majesty of the PC's best epics. But for those who fear consoles are dumbing down every genre they touch, the Prince of Persia begs to differ.Mike AnderieszRatchet &amp; Clank 3Playstation 2, &#163;39.99 Ignition/Sony****At the height of the blockbuster season comes a game that will sell few copies compared with Halo 2 and San Andreas, yet is right up with them when it comes to fun. Ratchet &amp; Clank 3 is a third-person platform, shooting game that is highly enjoyable to play and watch.Set in a retro-futuristic cartoon universe, it mixes a sharp script with oversized comedy weapons. If you have ever wanted to take on a lumbering army of robots with a plasma whip, then this is the game to play. R&amp;C 3 also offers the same kitchen-sink approach of previous games.So, while the majority of the levels involve using the best weapon for the job, players can expect plenty of platforming, flying and driving. There is even a "levelling-up" system that allows Ratchet to use more advanced weapons and gadgets.The online mode is a first for the series. While PS2 online gaming is a minority pursuit in the UK, R&amp;C is worth a bash. Running around the colourful environments, blasting friends and strangers, is entertaining.Overall, Ratchet &amp; Clank 3 can be summed up in one word - fun. It may lack the violence or street-cred of big-selling games, but it deserves a place in your Christmas stocking.Greg HowsonForgotten Realms: Demon StonePlayStation 2, &#163;39.99, Atari/Stormfront Studios***Something about Demon Stone is reminiscent of Electronic Arts' Lord of the Rings: Return of the King. But surprisingly, this third-person action roleplaying game edges ahead in the graphics department, which is essential given that the Forgotten Realms (FR) universe hasn't received the publicity kick of Tolkien's world.Stormfront Studios has rolled out the big guns, getting the FR author RA Salvatore to pen the storyline, and the likes of Patrick Stewart and Michael Clarke Duncan to do the voice acting. The storyline is good in general. However, the dialogue between the three main leads - around which the action revolves - is on the cheesy, fantasy-schlock side.The characters are generic fantasy fare: a warrior, a rogue and a mage, each with individual fighting styles. The idea is to flip among the three to utilise their talents. In practice, you are not given much opportunity to test each character, and it is too easy to stick with the warrior and plough through, leaving your AI-comrades to tidy up. Unsurprisingly, this turns into a button-mashing affair and the possible depths go unexplored.Despite this, Demon Stone is easy to pick up and play, with rich environments and an engaging storyline.Rhianna PratchettFlat OutPlayStation 2, Xbox, PC, &#163;39.99 Bugbear/Empire Interactive***It is no mean feat for a driving game to achieve a measure of originality, so for that Flat Out must be applauded. It is a souped-up banger racing game, in which you race nitrous, oxide-injected American rust-heaps around Tarmac, dirt and mud tracks.It would be unremarkable but fun, were it not for the presence of a very impressive physics engine and surprisingly advanced AI. The core of the game - track racing - is fairly standard, although the chance to preserve nitro bursts for key moments adds a strategic element.The tracks are great, and are littered with hazards such as piles of logs which lurk, waiting to launch you through the non-existent front windscreen of your car if you catch them. As you win prize money, you can upgrade your car, as in Gran Turismo. There are also plenty of extraneous objects you can demolish while racing, and car feel is excellent, making the switch between surfaces enjoyably realistic.But Flat Out's originality is rooted in a number of Burnout-style mini-games, in which you launch your driver through the windscreen and watch him fall like a rag doll. The main drawback is that it does not contain as many tracks as it should so feels a bit insubstantial. But factor in superb graphics (especially in the Xbox version) and you have a game that is great fun, well executed and fairly satisfying.Steve Boxer
Been blown away by Halo 2? Enjoyed letting off steam with Half Life 2? Ran riot in GTA: San Andreas? What have been yourfavourite games of 2004?Why don't you tell us by voting in ourgames of the year poll? Not only do you get a say in the results, but one lucky voter will win an Alienware Aurora PC powered by an AMD Athlon 64 FX processor.First up you have to decide on the best PC game of the year. Check out the list below, debate why we picked one game or missed out another and thengo and vote.Next week will be the turn of handheld and mobile games, with the week after being the consoles. The results of all three polls will be announced inOnlineon December 9.Our hardy team of reviewers have picked the following titles as their PC games of 2004. But which one deserves the top gong?Half Life 2Rome: Total WarSims 2Doom 3Football Manager 2005Thief 3: Deadly ShadowsPrince of Persia 2World of Warcraft (beta)Everquest 2Medal of Honor: Pacific AssaultSo, what do you think? Is there a deserving game we've missed off? Wondering why a game you think is overrated has made the cut? Argue away in the comments. And when you've done that,make sure you vote.
There is a growing library of videogame readers emerging, from industry-centred games design manuals to hints and tips for getting emotion into games, to examining the medium as a cultural phenomenon. Perhaps this is indicative of a mass market demand, or maybe publishing houses have run out of ideas.I got a book in the post the other day fromPublic Beta, an organisation which aims to dispel myths about the games industry and to clarify what we all mean when we're talking about interactive entertainment. It is called, provocatively,Difficult Questions About Videogamesand has a whole host of folks' opinions about what gamesare, from people like me to visionaries like Ian Livingstone, Warren Spector and Jez San. It's a strange collection of verbatim quotes, some eloquent, some vague, about what it is to "game", and offers a variety of insights into the rationale behind some of the decisions made in the industry.My bookcase is starting to fill up with games publications, but there are a few titles I'd like to read if they were written, like autobiographies ofShigeru Miyamoto(creator of Mario, Zelda, Donkey Kong and many other Nintendo staples),Willy Higinbotham(developer of the very first computer game, "Tennis for Two") andNolan Bushnell(Atari creator). I'd also like to see something that critically examines the cultural relativity of games. In the meantime, here's a top five from my library:Trigger Happyby Steven PooleGender-Inclusive Game Designby Sheri Graner RayWhat Video Games Have to Teach Us About Learning and Literacyby James Paul GeeRough Guide to Videogamingby Kate Berens and Geoff HowardArcade Fever: A Fan's Guide to the Golden Age of Video Gamesby John SellersWhat games books would you be interested in reading? Read any good ones lately?
On election night James Zetlen, 20, ran the gamut of distress as it became clear that George Bush would be returned to the White House."I passed through the stages of grief - denial, anger, pity, resignation and acceptance - in that order and pretty quickly," he said.Then he set up a website,sorryeverybody.com, to apologise to the world for failing to prevent Mr Bush's victory."A lot of people felt maybe they could have done more for the election and were feeling responsible to the rest of the world for the result," he said.He posted a picture of himself holding a small piece of paper saying: "Sorry world, we tried - (signed) half of America," and inviting other Americans to do the same.Half joke, half serious, the idea became wildly popular.Two weeks, 50m hits and more than 15,000 images later the project has proved such a success that he is thinking of turning it into a political lobby group."We have to be careful because we don't want to just use it for our own ends," said Mr Zetlen, a neuroscience student at the University of Southern California."But we're thinking perhaps making into a PAC &#91;political action committee&#93; or a charity to try to promote a more civil discourse."If responses to the site are anything to go by, he has a lot of work to do.More than two-thirds of the images submitted, some from Republicans, were rejected because they were too offensive."Some of them absolutely believe that the website is treasonous," he said. "Occasionally they threaten violence."Others were from Democrats denouncing Bush voters as ignorant. "There's a lot of anger and vilification but we won't accept submissions that are offensive," he said.Like just about everything else in American politics, one political initiative inevitably produces opposites, surrogates and spin-offs. Six Republican-supporting websites have been created in response:notsorryeverybody.com,sorryeverybodymyass.com,kissmyamericanass.comandwerenotsorry.com."Anything like this is ripe material for parody," Mr Zetlen said. "I can't blame anybody."Meanwhile, a handful of supportive websites includingapologiesaccepted.com, andnotsorrynoteverybody.comhave sprung up in its defence."The whole thing surprised me," Mr Zetlen said."I expected my friends to use it but we've had people sending pictures and sending messages from all over America, the south pole, South Africa, China, everywhere. The messages from abroad have mostly been supportive."Jay Rayner, an Observer journalist and author of the novel, The Apologist, was less shocked.He created a website,the-apologist.co.uk, to promote his book about a man who apologises for everything he did wrong and is appointed chief apologist of the United Nations. It has attracted more than 8,000 apologies for almost everything. "There is clearly something unique about the web as a vehicle for apologies," said Rayner, who was expecting just a few dozen submissions."It has become like a mass confessional and you can feel that everybody can see it regardless of whether the people you're apologising to actually see it or not."Sorryeverybody is one of several sites Democrats have set up to keep their spirits up since the election defeat.One has a fake "official seal" of the Democratic party with the face of a wailing baby. Another has Canadians offering to marry Americans wanting to flee north during the second Bush term.On a typical page on sorryeverybody.com the contributions ran from belligerent to contrite to funny.One man is seen holding up a sign saying: "Sorry everybody. Central Mississippi is not all red. I'm one of the 40% who voted for Kerry. Please forgive us."
Vodafone spices up 3G servicesWith six handsets due for a Christmas launch, the first 3G phone from Vodafone to hit the stores is Sony Ericsson's V800 clamshell. While it is light compared with previous 3G phones, it is nevertheless quite big. The screen is disappointingly small but the shortkeys and navigation "nipple" are easy to use. At 1.3 megapixels, the three-position camera with flash is high quality. Pictures, videos and music can be stored on the phone's 32MB memory card, while Bluetooth compatibility and a USB port bring added connectivity.Vodafone live! builds on existing services, adding full-track music and video downloads, gaming and text-based information services. Browsing on its portal is free, with charges for downloads - &#163;1.50 per music track from Vodafone's library of 3,000, or &#163;5 per game. Downloading is easy, although finding specific tracks can be a hassle. Put together, Vodafone live! with 3G is impressive, as is the phone's functionality. But it is a bit too chunky to be a must-have.CamerasMission to convertPanasonic has revamped its Lumix range of digital cameras by introducing four new models. Aimed at owners of film-based single lens reflex (SLR) cameras looking to go digital, the 3.1 megapixel DMCFZ3 combines a traditional SLR design with a high-end Leica DC Vario-Elmarit lens and a 12x optical zoom. It is on sale for &#163;350. The line-up also includes the DMCFX7 (&#163;350) and the DMCFX2 (&#163;300) - ultra compact cameras with Leica DC Vario-Elmarit lenses and 3x optical zooms. The DMCFX7 takes five megapixel images while the DMCFX2 snaps four. Completing the range is the &#163;200 DMCLC80, a five megapixel compact camera with a 3x optical zoom.www.panasonic.co.ukMade for memoriesOregon Scientific has become the latest manufacturer to deliver a Flash memory-based video/still camera with the launch of the &#163;200 DV100. The compact 9.9cm x 3.2cm x 6.4cm device is capable of snapping four megapixel still images, and recording moving footage on to MPeg4 or ASF at 30 frames per second. The camera features automatic white balance, exposure and focus options and features a 6x digital zoom for close ups. Footage, which is stored in the camera's 16MB internal memory or via a SD or MMC card, can be viewed on the DV100's integrated 1.8in LCD screen. Compatible with both PCs and Macs, the DV100 is on sale now.www.oregonscientific.co.ukDive masterA digital camera sounds incompatible with deep water, but owners of Fujufilm's FinePix F710 and F810 Zoom can now take pictures to a depth of 40 metres, thanks to a new, hermetic housing, see right. The 376G housing, sold separately for &#163;149.99, is made from tough, transparent polycarbonate, and features a lens window made from reinforced glass. Both cameras retain full functionality when inside the housing, while the bright orange buttons will make a splash even when you are out of the water.www.fujifilm.co.ukMusicMaking wavesDixons and Currys have unveiled a &#163;60 adapter that enables any hi-fi system to access the superior sound and extra stations offered by digital radio. The DAB Audio Adapter sits above the main hi-fi system and plugs into its AUX   socket. It features an LED screen that displays information such as the name of the station, or the artist or track playing. Other facilities include a clock/alarm and instant access to 10 favourite stations.If consumers spend more than &#163;129 on hi-fi in the stores, they can add the adapter to their system for &#163;29.99.www.dixons.co.ukwww.currys.co.ukMobileRouted to any spot3Com is to launch a mini wireless router that enables those on the move to create their own Wi-Fi hot spots. The size of a pack of cards, the &#163;47 OfficeConnect Wireless Travel Router plugs   into a broadband system via an Ethernet socket and delivers a 54Mbps 802.11g wireless system that can support up to 16 PCs. The device can also operate as a client, enabling PCs without a wireless interface to access a Wi-Fi network. Wi-Fi Protected Access and Wireless Equivalent Privacy encryption systems in conjunction with a firewall ensure the hot spot is secure.www.3com.co.ukPhonesModern antiquesWith pop's glitterati getting together to revisit Band Aid this Christmas, it is like the past never went away. Now mobile users can get their mitts on some of the great handsets of years gone by through a new service called Retrofone.   While all the talk is of the latest 3G handsets, Retrofone is hoping to tempt consumers back to classic designs such as the Nokia 7110. "Our survey reveals that people want simple, effective and familiar mobile technology," says Olly Tagg, managing director and founder, Retrofone. "The sheer number of mobile phones lost and broken every year in the UK has spawned a mass market for replacement handsets, not catered for by conventional retail outlets."www.retrofone.co.ukGoing globalBroadband telephony service Gossiptel has unveiled a new tariff that, for &#163;20 per month, enables its customers to make unlimited calls to landlines in up to 35 different countries. Users make and receive the calls via their broadband connection using an adaptor (which starts at &#163;29.99) that links the router to any standard home phone. Gossiptel is also offering a tariff called World 500 that includes 500 minutes of calls for &#163;9.99 per month. The service's subscribers can now also choose a number starting with one of the most popular UK STD codes including London, Birmingham and Manchester.www.gossiptel.co.ukwww.3com.co.ukStat of the week: Reality checkThe alarming gap between perception and reality of online security is beginning to show. According to a survey by AOL and National Cyber Security Alliance, 77% believe they are safe from online threats - but 50% also said they had no idea if they had a virus on their PC.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
On the internet, no one knows if you are who you say you are. For government, this is not a problem when dealing with inquiries about bin collections.Handling benefit claims, however, is another matter. If all public services are to be available electronically by the end of next year, councils and other public bodies need to find a way for people to prove who they are online.IT chiefs warned last week that the 2005 e-government target could be missed unless the government takes action. "Do nothing is not an option," says the report from SocITM, which represents IT managers in local authorities. But councils "are confused about which direction to take, and worried about impending deadlines".The report also warns of risks to security if public bodies allow multiple procedures for authentication to come into use.The national identity card, legislation for which is expected to be announced in the Queen's Speech next week, is one obvious solution. However, even if the project passes political hurdles and runs on time, the card will arrive too late for the e-government programme.The report also warns that the card's main security feature, biometric data - probably derived from the holder's eye - is not as straightforward as the government seems to believe. "Choosing a biometric that is both acceptable and practical is politically problematic."E-government enthusiasts have known for years that the authentication problem was coming, but most projects have put the issue to one side by concentrating on e-services   that do not need proof of identity. The majority of transactions fall into this category, even some involving money. Today, 80% of councils allow people to pay bills such as council tax and parking fines online, with no identity checks. If someone abuses the system by paying someone else's bill, the beneficiary is unlikely to complain.For fully self-service government, however, citizens and businesses will need to have electronic access to their personal records. As these contain sensitive information, especially where state benefits are concerned, authentication will be essential.Authentication is a two-stage process. First, citizens must register to obtain a credential. This usually involves producing a set of documents, such as the time-honoured passport and utility bills, or having a biometric scanned and receiving in return a password or token. To carry out a transaction, the citizen has to provide the credentials that establish they are the same individual who registered. The confidence with which this can be proved depends on the technologies used. Authentication does not prove identity - this link is only as strong as the original documents used to register.Never shy of complication, the government says that four levels of registration and authentication are necessary. Level zero, where identity is irrelevant, applies to someone checking a website for information. Level one is where the government takes the citizen's word. For level two,   "substantial assurance" is needed for transactions where fraud is possible, while level three - "beyond reasonable doubt" - is the type of procedure needed to apply for a passport.SocITM argues that once citizens have established credentials with one government agency, they should be able to use them with all others at the same level. This is partly in the interests of costs, partly of security: when people have fewer credentials to keep track of, they are less tempted to write down their passwords or pins.The snag is political. "Clearly, this ideal will require a degree of trust between the various agencies involved and in particular between local and central government," the SocITM report says.Up to now, that trust has been in    short supply. Although most public services are run by local authorities, the one national effort to issue electronic identities for government services, the Government Gateway, is run by the Cabinet Office. Visitors to its site,www.gateway.gov.uk, can apply for a 12-digit user ID and pins for use in services such as filing tax returns or obtaining a personal pension forecast from the Department for Work and Pensions. However, only a handful of authorities have connected to the Gateway.Gateway authentications for citizens are only level one - users state their identity with a set of facts. The main safeguard is that pins are sent through the post. The SocITM report says it seems unlikely that electronic registration at level two will be possible within the next 18 months. Registration for more sensitive services will involve producing original documents.SocITM says the Gateway "has the potential to be a generic registration service for the public sector". But it says that "many councils are still uncertain how to proceed, given the array of approaches, and the fast changing marketplace as technologies mature and prices change".It recommends that councils concentrate on providing electronic transactions that are of greatest use, but with low levels of risk if people mis-identify themselves. In practice, that means we will be able to use the web to check when our bins will be emptied or even to pay money - but not to claim it back.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
It takes a lot to bring together the likes of Amazon, Cisco Systems, eBay and Microsoft. Spam, however, is a big enough problem to create alliances out of the keenest rivalries. The technology leviathans were among a group of companies which this week wrote a letter to Deborah Majoras, the chairwoman of America's Federal Trade Commission, to lobby for changes to the way email is sent."Spammers continue to find new ways to compromise the security, integrity, and viability of the internet and email, thereby undermining users' trust and confidence," said the open letter, which was signed 35 firms. "Despite our progress, spammers have become more creative and deceptive. No one company can solve this problem alone. This is why we are working together to lead the adoption of email authentication technologies."It is something of a revolution in the spam world - a revolt, en masse, against junk mail combined with a new solution. The reason for the change is simple: there is a lot to lose. The increase in spam attacks threatens confidence in web transactions, and that in turn threatens profits.Another step forward was taken earlier this month when two of America's most prolific spammers were convicted of sending out thousands of unsolicited emails. Jeremy Jaynes and his sister Jessica DeGroot were caught running a huge spam scam that tricked thousands of people out of money. Jaynes faces up to nine years in prison as a result.Optimistic observers believe the US is finally starting to deal with a problem that affects not only Americans,   but millions of connected consumers around the globe. Last month alone, more than 42% of the world's junk email was sent from inside the US.Some are less convinced by a new era of cross-border collaboration - especially when spam havens such as China are finding it difficult to write effective legislation. "International cooperation on the legal side is a great starting point," says Alyn Hockey of Clearswift, a company that provides email filtering software. "But until cooperation becomes mainstream, spammers will be able to keep dodging the law."While most people agree that spam is a danger as well as an annoyance, the problem has always been in deciding how best to stop it. One school of thought has tended to focus on legislation, while others have aimed to educate email users and improve filtering systems.Neither approach can solve the problem alone. A deterrent is only effective if the criminal believes they might get caught. Similarly, spam merchants know there will always be a way to exploit the gaps in people's education. Social engineering, like any form of confidence trick, depends on human weakness.These traditional solutions seem palliative in the face of a growing problem. The increase in converged technology means spam has the potential to get worse - it can now be delivered to an increasing variety of devices. Mobile phones and instant messaging are being used with increasing frequency to transmit junk mail - and with each new method of delivery, stopping the rot becomes more difficult."We've already opened the flood gate," says Richard Cox, senior investigator with anti-spam campaigners Spamhaus. "It is just a matter of time. We have to act quickly, but unfortunately, not everyone is interested. It is the networks that hold the key - we might treat spammers with the contempt they deserve, but operators don't always treat spammers' wallets with the contempt they deserve."Now, though, with the technology giants joining forces, they are beginning to work on a solution that is not about changing how people use email, but altering the way in which it is sent and delivered.Email authentication - which checks and confirms the identity of the sender - makes it harder for spammers to cover their tracks. This, in turn, makes it easier to prosecute them. It is heralded by many as the great white hope of email - a way to save the internet from itself and hold back the tsunami of junk mail.But reinventing the wheel in this way is difficult. It takes time, money and effort for businesses and users to get used to a new system for sending and receiving mail. Bringing in authentication is akin to taming the Wild West - the technological equivalent of changing from the pony express to Federal Express."Authentication has to be an important part of the solution," says Cox. "But it means changing the way people work. It's going to take a long time for people to make the adjustments."Industry has never been quick to realise the dangers of technology, particularly when commercial groups continue to campaign for the right to send "legitimate" spam. But somewhere out there, the lights are beginning to switch on.Open letter to the FTChttp://truste.org/about/ sender_id_industry_letter.phpSpamhauswww.spamhaus.org&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Geek of the week has to be the person known as "Doug" who told the website MacNet he had downloaded 900,000 tracks from the net.But the more you look at it, the more curious it becomes: a case of the greater the crime, the smaller the offence. He - yes, it is a man - can't listen to all those tracks in a day or even a lifetime. He has more than most of the world's radio stations. He says he is just preserving them for posterity and forbids his children to burn them to disks.But what  could he do with them? He could play them randomly so he has no control over what he listens to. In that event, the consumer experience would be like listening to a radio station - though with nobody to filter choices. And, of   course, we are not required to pay for what we hear on the radio (at least not yet).Soon, as phones gobble up radios and MP3 players, we will be able to record a tune to the phone's memory and play it on the MP3 player. As memories get bigger, phones will store hundreds or thousands of tunes. If Shazam (www.shazam.com), which recognises the tune and singer directly from a mobile, were used as well, then you may be able to allow your phone/radio to roam around numerous radio stations, vacuuming up all the songs you like. You would end up doing what downloaders are doing but it would - probably - be legal. And if you play it in loudspeaker mode - the loudspeakers on some 3G phones are a big advance on what went before - then all your friends can join in.The moral of this is don't encourage your children to become downloaders as there is no money in it, but to become lawyers instead, because the bush fires being lit by intellectual property rights could soon become a forest fire.It is already a jungle. Among those 900,000 downloads will be some Doug might have bought anyway. There will be many he had never heard of, which could lead to purchases that wouldn't otherwise have taken place. The vast majority he won't have time to listen to. It is quite common now to get "free" CDs stuck to the front of a magazine cover. Would it be illegal to download that track from the internet? Years ago, companies such as Microsoft would complain about illicit copying in China and India. They still do - but they would much prefer the pirating to be of   MS software not rival stuff. Why? Yesterday's piracy could be tomorrow's installed base.The success of iPod-style music players has proved that people are prepared to pay for downloads at a "fair" price. A fair price must represent the reality of the new economy - that the cost of manufacturing and delivering extra digital tracks is approaching zero. iTunes (at 99cents) is not there yet.If record companies continue to try to recoup manufacturing, marketing and distribution costs that no longer exist, then piracy will flourish. If they accept that the world has changed, then they may ensure their survival and show the man who downloaded 900,000 tracks for what he is: an interesting oddity who might make the Guinness Book of Records but has little impact on the real world.
How does Vodafone's 3G offering stack up against 3, the network that pioneered 3G in the UK and now boasts 1.2 million subscribers? If you are thinking of upgrading to 3G, here's how the two fare head to head.HandsetsVodafone has lined up an impressive selection of 3G handsets, including the Sharp V902sh, with its two megapixel camera, and the excellent Nokia 6630 smartphone. Neither phone will be in stores for at least a month. Nevertheless, Vodafone's lead handset, the Sony Ericsson V800, is a stylish 3G clamshell phone with a superb 1.3 megapixel camera. While 3 doesn't have anything as slick, it does boast the smartest 3G phone (the Motorola A1000), the most popular (the LG 8120) and the smallest (NEC's e338).TariffsFor &#163;40 a month on contract, Vodafone is offering 500 minutes of talk, 100 texts, 50 minutes' video calling, free browsing of its Vodafone live! website, football and news video clips and three free music downloads. 3's Talk and Text 600 offers the same talk and text deal as Vodafone for &#163;30 per month. For an extra &#163;5 per month, subscribers can add free video content such as Premiership football, music video as well as 20 minutes of video calls. So 3 is slightly more competitive, but Vodafone users get more minutes of video calling. 3 is also more flexible in adding extra content.ContentBoth offer Premiership and Champions League goals and news and magazine-style video content. Vodafone has a small but growing line-up of music downloads, while 3 is majoring on video music downloads. Both have a good selection of games and offer person-to-person video calling.NetworkVodafone claims coverage of 60% of the UK population, 20% less than 3. The differences will probably be minimal by the end of next year.BusinessVodafone is the winner here, courtesy of its excellent 3G card for laptop PCs. But team a handset with a laptop and use it as a modem and Vodafone customers can expect to pay a hefty &#163;2.35 for every megabyte they download.Pay as you goVodafone doesn't appear to be too serious about pulling in 3G punters on pay as you go at the moment. Its phones start at &#163;200 compared with &#163;45 for several handsets on 3.www.three.co.ukwww.vodafone.co.uk/live3g/home.html
Palm made its name with electronic organisers, but if it is going to have much of a future, it's going to have to do it again in the smartphone business. If you still think "Palm Pilot" - a device it made a very long time ago, before it was sued by the Pilot Pen Corporation - rather than "Palm Treo", this is going to be hard work.The Treo smartphone was developed by Handspring, a rival to Palm set up by Palm's original founders. Handspring launched and then abandoned a Palm-compatible range of Visor handhelds to focus on phones, while Palm blundered into what looked rather like terminal decline - at least until the impressive Todd Bradley took charge.A year ago, Bradley spun off Palm OS into a separate company,   PalmSource, while Palm and Handspring were re-united in PalmOne. This brought back the Palm/ Handspring inventor Jeff Hawkins and marketing man/Handspring boss Ed Colligan, who is now PalmOne's president. They brought the Treo along with them, filling a gaping hole in Palm's product line.The latest financial statement shows the results. For the quarter ending August 27, PalmOne's sales jumped 62% to $273m, and it made a profit of $19.6m compared with a $16.9m loss in the same quarter the previous year.Although PalmOne shipped 708,000 handhelds compared with 273,000 Treo 600 phones, the revenues were similar: $144.3m from handhelds and $128.8m from phones. If Palm handheld buyers switch to more expensive Treos, both sales and   profits should grow nicely.But it must be admitted the Palm OS business does not look too healthy, partly because Sony has dropped out of the market outside Japan. According to Gartner research, Palm OS's market share dropped by 28% in the latest quarter, and PalmOne's PDA sales fell by 13.3%.Not only was Palm OS's market overtaken by Windows CE for the first time - 48.1% Windows CE to 29.8% Palm OS - it is threatened by Research In Motion's BlackBerry, which is growing at a phenomenal rate (356.5% year on year).Gartner analyst Tod Kort says: "Demand for wireless email continues to increase as the primary driver of new PDA deployments. The shipment growth of RIM nearly balances the decline of Palm OS, Linux, Symbian and proprietary PDAs."PalmOne has already learned from the BlackBerry - just look at the Treo's keyboard - and Colligan has certainly learned the value of the email market. "Right now," he says, "about 50% of the people with a Treo use it for email: we want to make that 90%."Colligan says PalmOne has done a lot of work on top of Palm OS and worked closely with the phone companies to make its VersaMail system "super-easy to set up". He has even announced a partnership with the old enemy, Microsoft, to make it work better with Microsoft Exchange servers."There are about 900m mailbox users, and only about two million mobile email users," says Colligan. "It's extremely early in this game."With the good-looking Treo 650 on the way, he at least has a fighting chance.&#183;Treo 650:www.palmone.com/us/products/smartphones/treo650/&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Racing genre games have cruelly highlighted the limits of the mobile as a gaming platform. Generally, poor control responses, sluggish animation and the lack of 3D co-processing technology have led to pitiful examples spluttering on to the starting grid. Now that developers are learning to work within the limits of the hardware, however, interesting contenders are emerging.In-fusio's Java conversion of Xbox racerMidtown Madness 3is the perfect example. The designer has packed in the original's open-ended circuit design, now viewed from an overhead perspective, and many of its gameplay modes. The career option allows you to become an ambulance driver or delivery guy, bashing other vehicles out of the way to get to all the required destinations in time.Checkpoint is a more straightforward race against three computer-controlled vehicles. Success allows you to open up new modes and cars, reflecting the rewarding structure Midtown Madness fans are used to. The pace is a little slower than we'd like, but this is an excellent effort at recreating the feel of a console title within tight technical boundaries.Just as impressive is iFone's take onMicro Machines, the classic knockabout racing series where you guide toy cars around a variety of household locations, such as breakfast tables, sand pits and pool tables. All the familiar modes have been squeezed in. Again, it feels a little sluggish at first, but this is probably a necessity with such a reduced screen size. Stick with it, and the memories of Codemasters' lovingly crafted series will come flooding back.Ferrari Experience II, from Sumea, is more like the mobile racing fare we're used to, with its 3D-style view and simple gameplay. But this F1-themed title has bright, detailed visuals and smooth animation, and will remind gamers of great 80s F1 coin-operated games such as Pole Position. The company has also produced a true 3D version for 3G handsets, which should be out this month on Vodafone's new service.Vodafone live! will soon feature the amazing mobile conversion of arcade legendRidge Racer, while Jamdat is working on conversions of Microsoft'sRallisport Challengeand the Codemasters touring car favourite,TOCA Race Driver.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Money makersTime was when bloggers would no more expect to be paid than they would reckon on bumping into Bill Gates in Tesco. But a handful of companies have been setting up niche blogs as commercial enterprises, and in the process colonising territory previously the domain of bloggers who write for love. Nanopublishing firms run by former journalists, such as Nick Denton's Gawker Media and Jason Calacanis' Weblogs Inc, led the way, creating the likes of gadget blogs Gizmodo and Engadget, and political gossip blog Wonkette. Now a new outfit, Mink Media, is trying to emulate that US success in the compact environs of the UK blogosphere.CV timeMink Media is promising to launch a clutch of new blogs over the next few months, but its current stable consists of the newly launched political blog Honourable Fiend and travel blog Wanda Lust. They will be joined by Sqreech (London-focused gossip), Gadgette (er, gadgets) and GrokSpin (media). The man behind Mink is Azeem Azhar, a former Guardian Online journalist. The Mink Media team is also looking to recruit, hunting for "sharp, new writers interested in producing a blog that'll make us laugh". So if you fancy making the transition from amateur to professional blogger/selling out and making a penny or two, now's the time to smarten up your online CV.www.minkmedia.comwww.honourablefiend.comwww.wandalust.comCompetitive edgeMink has a way to go before it matches the growth of Weblogs Inc, which recently launched its 60th weblog, Gadling, covering adventure travel. They even briefly shared personnel - the travel writer Sabrina Dent, who signed a contract to post on both Wanda Lust and Gadling, but that was shortlived. She was fired by Weblogs Inc on Friday, as she explains on her personal blog, for what Jason Calacanis saw as working for a competitor.http://masl.to/?Z67B218C9The big smokeIn a final piece of nanopublishing news, the pair behind Guardian blog award-winning The Big Smoker have   relaunched as the London outpost of the blog network Gothamist. Says Rob Hinchcliffe: "We know of no other UK blog that's been able to make this step up and we think it's a great opportunity to represent the UK's greatest city and its writers."www.londonist.comExit poll strategyAna Marie Cox, the woman behind Gawker outpost Wonkette, was the toast of Hollywood last weekend when she gave a keynote speech at the Online News Association conference. Cox, one of a coterie of bloggers criticised for putting up misleading exit polls on US election day, was unrepentant, telling her audience of online journalists: "My retrospective argument seems relevant: we had to publish exit polls in order to kill them."http://tinyurl.com/726l2Centre stageBlogging took centre stage in California last week at BloggerCon III, veteran blogger Dave Winer's "unconference", where there are no panels or an audience, just lots of discussion of blogs. Subjects included the suddenly sexy Podcasting (pulling digital files from the net to your iPod or other listening device), the old chestnut of blogs and journalism, and blogging and academia. Stacy Kramer's report at Online Journalism Review is worth a read, and session summaries are available at the BloggerCon site.www.bloggercon.org/2004http://tinyurl.com/62nmhNervous nelliesBlogSquirrel may sound like the latest nanopublishing venture, but it is a new piece of software targeted at businesses nervy about how blogs are helping or hindering brands. For a monthly fee, firms can sign up to this "blog searching, monitoring and clipping service", which claims to monitor more than 100,000 blogs a day and sends a report summarising how your brand is portrayed by bloggers. CyberAlert, the company behind it, claims the service acts as an "early warning system".Not everyone is convinced, though. Fredrik Wacka, of CorporateBlogging. info, wonders why companies would pay for information they could access themselves via aggregators such as Bloglines. This, of course, assumes a certain level of blogging knowledge and experience.http://tinyurl.com/6u2ckwww.bloglines.comSix of the best health and medicine blogsThe Examining Room of Dr Charlesdrcharles.blogspot.comRandom Acts of Realityhttp://randomreality.blogware.comCode Blog: Tales of a Nursewww.cut-to-cure.blogspot.comIn the Pipelinewww.corante.com/pipeline/Doing Less Harmanytownnhstrust.blogspot.comNew &amp; notedSpinWatchwww.spinwatch.orgRed List of endangered species 2004www.redlist.orgWorld Toilet Day (November 19)www.worldtoilet.org&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Safety in numbersGlyn Moody's article about the open source web browser Firefox (Dambusters, November 11) omits to mention that the greater number of advisories in Red Hat than Microsoft Server is believed by many in the open source community to be a good thing. All software is fundamentally flawed and contains bugs and weaknesses in implementation and design. Open source software and its active community discovers and fixes these errors in a rapid manner. This openness leads to software that evolves toward stability and security at a greater rate than proprietary, closed, non-free software.Oisin FeeleyEvident successI have been using both Firefox and Thunderbird for a few months and have had no problems. I am looking to try Linux next as an alternative to Microsoft fare as I have seen little to justify paying for and moving from Windows 98SE to XP just to put even more cash in Bill Gates' pockets.Chris LysaghtCumbriaGet the Abi habitI have enjoyed Glyn Moody's articles and thought I'd like to add a suggestion to the list of open source applications. As a word processor I would recommend Abiword (www.abisource.com) rather than OpenOffice. It does enough for most people and is a lot less bloated than the Office suites.Sandy ArnottLearning fastAs a computer science teacher, I have so far stuck to Windows, but I am becoming increasingly angry with Microsoft's poor operating system (the applications are excellent). In my view, Linux running with the X Window system is superior to Windows, but requires more effort from the user to configure it. I have already switched to Firefox; it is faster than Explorer and cleaner.Clive WarnerMonterreyNo laughing matterThe notion of a Microsoft product being used in an environment that must be secure at all costs - the NHS - is positively laughable (Public domain, November 11). What next, private healthcare rolls out Mac platform?Dominic O'FarrellFrankfurtVideo transferI read Ashley Norris's column with interest (DVR's time has come,   November 11). My VHS recorder no longer records, and I have been thinking about replacing it. However, while I would love to have a DVR, I already have a large number of pre-recorded VHS cassettes that are perfectly fine. As these DVRs have hard disks, it should be possible to upload a VHS tape, record it to the hard disk and then transfer it to DVD. Are there any devices that offer this facility?John DurcanIrelandCash injectionJack Schofield (Column, October 28) hit the nail on the head when he noted that the key to good interfaces is that when you have one "you no longer have to look at or think about commands, because they become automatic". But he missed what should have been his lead: my Humane Interface project has just received nearly $2m to put behind the concept.Jef RaskinBlogBack: What the web says about OnlineI've been running various earlier  versions of Firefox for some months  and I can't speak highly enough of it...  The rise of Firefox is also important  because it demonstrates the strength  of free, open source software.disillusionedkid.blogspot.comOnly problem is that if Firefox gets too  popular, then all the evil hackers will  start targeting it as much as IE and any  advantage will vanish.witterjiglog.blogspot.comYou state that "Firefox developers are  hoping to win 10% of the browser  market within a year". This figure  seems small to me (15% of the people  who read my blog use Firefox) and I  hope it is an underestimate and that  many, many more will come into the  Mozilla camp. Firefox is certainly an  interesting browser.frenchfloosie.com/geekyheaven/In describing interactive viewing/  interpretation technology used at an  art gallery in Florence, Italy, Ben Hammersley  (State of the art, November 4)  mentions disadvantages of giving  visitors handheld devices or audio  commentary players: "It usually  distracts people from each other,  ruining the social experience of a  museum visit." Eh, good. I certainly  welcome anything that decreases my  awareness of others in the room - I'm  there for the art, not the company.www.ministry-of-information.co.  uk/blog/How to get in touch with Onlineemailonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say soPress releasesonline@guardian.co.ukSnailmailOnline, the Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ERTelephone020 7278 2332Fax020 7713 4154Display advertising:Gavin Andrews 020 7713 4418gavin.andrews@guardian.co.ukClassified advertising:Gaby Bavidge 020 7611 9111gaby.bavidge@guardian.co.uk
"To the victors the spoils. Vodafone's investors have long been fretting about more adventures on the acquisition trail. They seemed to have won the day," judged the Lex column in theFinancial Timesafter the world's largest mobile phone operator by revenue announced on Tuesday that it intends to increase its return to shareholders to &#163;6.7bn. Most of that windfall will come from dividends, the value of which were doubled for the first half of the year. It also pledged the same again for the full 12 months, outstripping many City forecasts which put the dividend rise between 50% and 75%.For theScotsman's Martin Flanagan, Tuesday's announcement by Arun Sarin, Vodafone's chief executive, was "among the most telling expressions of the zeitgeist we have seen increasingly in the business world. He further sweetened investors by increasing the groups' share buyback programme this year from &#163;3bn to &#163;4bn."This cash bonanza was evidence of Vodafone reaching maturity after the billions it spent building and buying telecom networks around the world, said Jeremy Warner in theIndependent. "Once upon a time, this would have encouraged directors to go off on a renewed and even bigger spending binge," he reckoned. "Not any more. Mr Sarin ... has listened to what his shareholders have had to say to him and decided instead to start giving the money back to them."Although Vodafone also announced a strong interim pre-tax profit of &#163;5.4bn, and that it had boosted its number of worldwide subscribers by 7.4 million to 146.7 million, its shares fell by 0.75p to 142p by the end of Tuesday.Investors' lack of enthusiasm was a result of lingering concerns about the company's performance, said Alex Brummer in theDaily Mail. "Profit margins were down in several major markets including Britain, Italy, Spain and Japan."With that in mind, and the fact that slower growth is making the mobile phone industry increasingly competitive, the Breaking Views column in theWall Street Journal Europejudged that Vodafone had "felt obliged to double its dividend in an effort to keep shareholders on its side".However, it was worth remembering that the group "is in transition as it seeks to move to third-generation networks with their instant music downloads and the rest", countered the Mail's Brummer, who praised Vodafone's successful launch last week of its 3G services.3G was the focus of Patience Wheatcroft's analysis in theTimes. Although the &#163;6bn that Mr Sarin's predecessor, Sir Christopher Gent, paid for its licence in Britain looks "ludicrous" in today's investment market, she said, at the time Vodafone "had little choice but to buy a place in 3G telephony if it wanted to secure its long-term future and it paid the going rate".The company had spent &#163;14.7bn around the world on such licences, noted Wheatcroft. It, along with all mobile operators, would have to prove that G3 technology - which is able to provide services such as made-for-mobile episodes of television programmes - are not mere "gimmickry". But "for customers who need persuading, the prospects of cheaper voice and text services alone should hold sway with some." The scale of Vodafone's 3G investment also needed to be considered in the context of projected sales of smart phones, which are predicted to hit 27.6m globally this year and reach 125m by 2009. "Once they have clever phones in their pockets, people will inevitably be tempted to explore their possible uses," she reckoned.But others were less sure that 3G phones would have a significant impact on the growth of the mobile- telephone market. "Mr Sarin and his mobile counterparts still talk excitedly about the prospects of 3G, but this is proving to be on a much slower burn than anticipated even a few years ago," cautioned Warner in the Independent. "Today, the fate of the 3G spectrum may be to act as little more than a reservoir of spare capacity for mobile telephony's growing share of the voice market."
Solaris shinesSun Microsystems has decided to make version 10 of its high-priced Solaris version of Unix free when it is shipped in January. The software will include a new Zettabyte File System (ZFS), named to indicate its claimed scalability. This creates a virtual file system that automatically mirrors data so that corrupted disk sectors can be recovered on the fly. Solaris also introduces Grid Containers to improve performance. This splits the server resources to give each user a personal virtual Sun server. The company is also continuing efforts to make Solaris open source, but has still to gain permission from third parties whose code is used as part of the system.www.sun.com/nc/04q4Bofra rulesThe new Bofra worm for Windows looks like a variant of the MyDoom virus but it has a twist: it avoids anti-virus software. Bofra is circulated via a number of emails. The most common seems to be: "Congratulations! PayPal has successfully charged $175 to your credit card." This contains a link to the PC that sent the email. Bofra has set up a small web server on port 1639 of the infected PC, so you can click the link and unknowingly download the virus. No code is sent with the email for AV scanners to detect, and there is no central web server that could easily be shut down: it's a peer-to-peer system. The web page uses a newly discovered IFrame vulnerability in Internet Explorer to infect PCs, and installs a back door that allows remote access to the machine. There's no patch for Windows 2000 or XP SP1 yet, but Windows XP SP2 is not vulnerable.http://tinyurl.com/47wbgContract expansionThurrock council in Essex is finalising a &#163;427m contract with Vertex, a business process outsourcing provider. The agreement covers a 15-year term, and around 600 council employees will transfer to Vertex in April. Ovum, a UK-based IT consultancy, says this is the largest local e-government outsourcing contract. Vertex will manage 10 services, ranging from administration and customer services to revenues, procurement and human resources. The company will also implement and manage Thurrock's &#163;10m IT transformation programme to support these services.http://tinyurl.com/4bkncKnock lockThe Society of IT Management says councils must work on levels of authentication before launching e-government   services in 2005. The report, Knock, Knock: Who's There? urges authorities to take action before systems are breached and they fall foul of the Data Protection Act. The introduction of online access will allow citizens and businesses to access sensitive information remotely and some services will require stronger authentication. One area highlighted is council staff working from home where their systems may be available to others if insufficiently protected. Peripatetic workers will also have to ensure laptops are protected against theft.http://tinyurl.com/6psknCopy catsHewlett-Packard claims its latest multifunction printers will transform the photocopier market and challenge the giants of the copier world. By using the latest printer and scanner technologies in concert, the company says it can reduce costs and increase the reliability of photocopying for enterprises and medium-sized businesses. According to HP, the &#163;1,444 LaserJet 4345mfp delivers 45 pages per minute at a third of the cost of comparable traditional copiers. Vyomesh Joshi, executive vice president for HP's Imaging and Printing Group, believes this will allow companies to deploy more printing and copying facilities closer to users while allowing remote management and departmental billing.http://tinyurl.com/42gqmOn the flySita, the air transport telecoms and IT provider, is testing a mobile phone application that will allow executives to check in as they approach the airport. The software is being tested by TAM Brazilian Airlines and runs on data-enabled phones with Java software. A registered user can use their phone to check in, choose a seat and receive a printer-readable, on-screen barcode. This can be converted to a boarding card at special kiosks on arrival. SITA says the system could relieve queues and reduce the number of check-in desks. The package has been co-developed with Siemens and will be offered to other airlines early next year.http://tinyurl.com/4ocvvReturn to spooferAlthough Sender ID has not been adopted as an internet standard, companies are still adopting it, according to CipherTrust. The company says its IronMail servers are blocking more than 3m "spoofed" emails per day (ones with forged addresses) because they have failed SPF checks. The system blocks "phishing" attacks by emails not sent from the claimed source, usually a bank. Last week, Amazon, Bank of America, CipherTrust, EarthLink, eBay, Microsoft and others wrote to the US Federal Trade Commission "urging continued support of email authentication and Sender ID", including support for Cisco's Internet Mail and Yahoo's DomainKeys.www.ciphertrust.com/sidf_stats
Who christened it a "mouse"?Bill English used to ask me that and I said a country kid like me wouldn't have thought about giving it a name! No one among the five or six people associated with our experiments can remember who started calling it a mouse. We started building more and using them all the time so we were sure it would have a good chance but we thought it would get a dignified name. Now there are about 900m mice being used!Does it irk you that people focus on that invention and overlook other achievements?Yeah a little ... It's like saying we invented a really interesting    early automobile and focusing on the steering wheel! It does buoy me up too, though. The biggest mouse maker is Logitech (www.logitech.com) and it has given me office space over the past 12 years or so. I'd get lonesome working from home.Did you envisage how integrated the internet would become in our lives?I was lucky enough to be in the environment of people that were first talking about building the architecture. My research computer was the second one to be tied to the internet ... or the Arpanet (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ARPANET) as it was then. It was very much a research thing, some advance thinkers figuring it would help a lot. Most of the orientation was that if you had programs on your machine that I could use to calculate and I had the data, then I could ship my data to your machine and you could calculate it   and ship back the results. People weren't thinking about the collaborative stuff the net's now used for.You're involved in hypertext research with University College London?I'm not doing that much with the college (www.uclic.ucl.ac.uk) - it's more that Frode &#91;Hegland&#93; and I have been interacting for years and his project is working with one of the ideas from Augment about "implicit" links where every word is implicitly linked to its definition in the dictionary.Any thoughts on the Microsoft/Macintosh duopoly?It's not such a good thing as it inhibits evolution immensely. That's why the open source idea is important. I'm trying to find somebody that can work out concurrently the evolution of tools and how you use them. I have been waiting for that for decades.You're a fan of open source?It's the only way. Imagine if our spoken vocabulary were tied down to who had patents on it? If someone were able to stop you using certain verbs! Open source means faith - lots of people contribute and it can evolve like language.Lots of sub-languages will develop that will have to fit in.How do you see evolution?Nanotechnology will allow so much speed, power and increases in memory. Ultra wideband wireless technology (www.webopedia.com/TERM/U/UWB.html) opens up tremendous potential. There's a frontier out there of all the technology things we could do but we need better and better maps of it.&#183;Visit:www.bootstrap.org&amp;www.invisiblerevolution.net&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Do you use open source software? You probably do. If you have a GPS navigator, a wireless router or an NAS network storage device, they may well be based on an embedded version of Linux. This is available free, complete with source code, which is attractive for developers who don't want to start from scratch. But if you are not sure what the Free Software Foundation's General Public Licence (GPL), which governs Linux source code, means by "free", you could end up in court or, like TomTom Software, making a significant donation as an apology.Briefly, the GPL means that if you base your program on source code protected by the GPL, you have to make your source code available to others in the same way the original was available to you. Others can use it, change it and make their source code available in turn.That does not mean you cannot charge for software released under Richard Stallman's GPL licence, based on GPL source code: you can charge as much as you want, although technically you are selling a service rather than the code itself. As the GPL puts it: "When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom not price." But you still have to include the source code with your software or make it available to anyone who asks (for what it costs you to copy and send it on).Your customers can therefore take your code, base their own product on it, and create a competitor.However, you do not have to use the GPL licence if you are writing applications to run on Linux (unless you are basing them on someone else's GPL code). And if you don't distribute your GPL-based software outside your company, you don't have to release the source code, either. That covers the kind of development that goes on in most IT departments.But if you are building an appliance such as a firewall or GPS tracker, do not include any secrets or proprietary code that you don't want to pass on, unless they are in separate programs: you could end up giving away a lot more than you intended.Also, never assume that because the open source movement doesn't have a big company behind it, that no one will come after you. TheGPL-violations.orgvolunteer project has reminded companies such as Asus, Belkin, Siemens and Fujitsu-Siemens to make their source code available: TomTom is just the latest.The practice of settling out of court and setting up websites to distribute source code means we do not know what a court might deem to be   appropriate penalties. But TomTom, Allnet and Fujitsu-Siemens all made what the project calls a "significant donation" to organisations such as the Free Software Foundation Europe and the Chaos Computer Club. However, in April, a German court issued an injunction stopping Sitecom from selling a wireless router based on GPL software when it refused to follow the GPL rules. That was the first time the licence has been tested, and upheld, in court.Many companies want to use open source while avoiding the GPL, and there is now a long list of licences with their fans and detractors. The Open Source Initiative lists 54, and many of them lack the GPL's "contamination clause", which obliges the next developer down the line to give other users the benefits they themselves have enjoyed. Andrew St Laurent's new book, Understanding Open Source and Free Software Licensing, is a guide to the legal implications of a dozen of them.If you decide to create an open source project, you can pick whichever licence you like, or write your own. As Giles Palmer, of software developers Runtime Collective, points out, altruism is not the only reason to make code open source. "You can share the burden. I use this software in my business, but I don't want to sell it, because it's not my core business. If I can, I would like to share the costs of improving it. If I make it open source, others will start to use it and improve it so I will benefit."There is also another issue to bear in mind: software patents and intellectual property rights. Open source licences guarantee that source code is not covered by someone else's patents, or that it does not compromise anyone's intellectual property   (IP). As IP lawyer Just Ellis puts it: "By their nature, software patents are incompatible with open source software, which is based on the sharing of source code and using one developer's code in another's work."If you distribute code that infringes patents, even if the infringement was in the open source code you started with, you could be liable. For example, there are versions of the open source FreeType font engine that potentially infringe TrueType font hinting patents held by Apple, so you might need a patent licence to use or distribute them. (There are also versions that do not.)Both Novell and IBM have said they will not use their patents against open source developers, but that is not particularly reassuring because open source developers are generally too poor to make suing them worthwhile.It is also noticeable that IBM, while promoting its support for Linux, uses other people's distributions. "When IBM made the decision to embrace Linux as key to the company strategy, we worked very hard to partner with the industry rather than to disintermediate the major players. Our decision was made consciously to partner, not compete with the open community players," says IBM's Joe Hanley.However, in an online interview, Dr Karl-Heinz Strassemeyer, a distinguished engineer from IBM Germany, explained why his team abandoned the idea of using Linux in a product. "We didn't want to do a distribution, because we didn't want a patent infringement being detected. If somebody would have taken us to court we might have had to stop shipping our product," he says.If you take the benefits of open source, you also take on any risks.&#183;Open Source Initiative approved licenceshttp://opensource.org/licenses&#183;Understanding Open Source and Free Software Licensing (book)www.oreilly.com/catalog/osfreesoft/&#183;Dr. Karl-Heinz Strassemeyer interview&#183;www.sslug.dk/patent/strassemeyer/transr-del.shtml&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
What was the best game of 2004? It is a difficult question, especially when it has produced something of a bumper crop for gamers of all persuasions.From Doom 3 to Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas; from Halo 2 to the upcoming Half Life sequel, 2004 has seen a succession of big releases that should have satisfied casual and   hardcore game fans alike.The focus on games was even stronger thanks to the paucity of hardware releases. Sony unveiled its new slimline PlayStation 2, but major new hardware releases for gamers were thin on the ground. Only the two new handhelds - the Tiger Telematics Gizmondo and Tapwave's Zodiac 2 - have hinted at the things to watch out for in the coming year.So which titles deserve the   plaudits? In conjunction with the Guardian's Gamesblog, we are inviting you to vote for your favourite games of the year.Over the course of three weeks, our games writers will be unveiling their shortlists in three categories - PC, handheld and console gaming - explaining their choices and asking you to vote on which one you think deserves to be named the year's best overall game. After we have   announced the shortlists for all three categories, we will tally up the votes and announce the winners in time for Christmas.Log on to Gamesblog to read more about the shortlists, have your say and register your vote.blogs.guardian.co.uk/gamesPrince of Persia: Warrior WithinPC&#163;34.99 Ubi Soft&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;&amp;#42There was a time when if you wanted to destroy a game's credibility at birth, you just had to shout "interactive movie!" during the launch party. It was the kiss of death, a clear admission that gameplay had been sacrificed to bad actors saying terrible lines. So, if I told you this latest chapter in the Prince of Persia saga plays like an interactive movie, I'd have to add that the director has done a good job mastering most of Spielberg's lexicon. This game dares to take on   Hollywood and occasionally wins.From the opening salvo, when your galleon is rammed by a demon ghost-ship, forcing you to learn the new two-weapon fighting system on the run, Warrior Within never lets up. Borrowing ideas from every action   movie from Master and Commander and The Matrix, it is basically a beat-'em-up with platform game, arcade adventure and first person shooter thrown in. It is also stitched together audaciously.To PC owners starved of console-inspired games, it is a rare treat to find the best example converted so proficiently. Special praise must go to your Time Stretching abilities, which make the game a sheer delight to watch, especially when slicing a zombie in half with a scimitar.In due course, you will find the director's influence too confining and the experience lacking the freeform majesty of the PC's best epics. But for those who fear consoles are dumbing   down every genre they touch, the Prince of Persia begs to differ.Mike AnderieszRatchet &amp; Clank 3Playstation 2&#163;39.99 Ignition/Sony&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;At the height of the blockbuster season comes a game that will sell few copies compared with Halo 2 and San Andreas, yet is right up with them when it comes to fun. Ratchet &amp; Clank 3 is a third-person platform, shooting game that is highly enjoyable to play and watch.Set in a retro-futuristic cartoon   universe, it mixes a sharp script with oversized comedy weapons. If you have ever wanted to take on a lumbering army of robots with a plasma whip, then this is the game to play. R&amp;C 3 also offers the same kitchen-sink approach of previous games.So, while the majority of the levels involve using the best weapon for the job, players can expect plenty of platforming, flying and driving. There is even a "levelling-up" system that allows Ratchet to use more advanced weapons and gadgets.The online mode is a first for the series. While PS2 online gaming is a minority pursuit in the UK, R&amp;C is worth a bash. Running around the colourful environments, blasting friends and strangers, is entertaining.Overall, Ratchet &amp; Clank 3 can be summed up in one word - fun. It may lack the violence or street-cred of big-selling games, but it deserves a place in your Christmas stocking.Greg HowsonForgotten Realms: Demon StonePlayStation 2&#163;39.99 Atari/Stormfront Studios&#42;&#42;&#42;Something about Demon Stone is reminiscent of Electronic Arts' Lord of the Rings: Return of the King. But surprisingly, this third-person action roleplaying game edges ahead in the graphics department, which is essential given that the Forgotten Realms (FR) universe hasn't received the publicity kick of Tolkien's world.Stormfront Studios has rolled out the big guns, getting the FR author RA Salvatore to pen the storyline, and the likes of Patrick Stewart and   Michael Clarke Duncan to do the voice acting. The storyline is good in general. However, the dialogue between the three main leads - around which the action revolves - is on the cheesy, fantasy-schlock side.The characters are generic fantasy fare: a warrior, a rogue and a mage, each with individual fighting styles. The idea is to flip among the three to utilise their talents. In practice, you are not given much opportunity to test each character, and it is too easy to stick with the warrior and plough through, leaving your AI-comrades to tidy up. Unsurprisingly, this turns into a button-mashing affair and the possible depths go unexplored.Despite this, Demon Stone is easy to pick up and play, with rich environments and an engaging storyline.Rhianna PratchettFlat OutPlayStation 2, Xbox, PC&#163;39.99 Bugbear/Empire Interactive&#42;&#42;&#42;It is no mean feat for a driving game to achieve a measure of originality, so for that Flat Out must be applauded. It is a souped-up banger racing game, in which you race nitrous, oxide-injected American rust-heaps around Tarmac, dirt and mud tracks.It would be unremarkable but fun, were it not for the presence of a very impressive physics engine and surprisingly advanced AI. The core of the game - track racing - is fairly standard, although the chance to preserve nitro bursts for key moments adds a strategic element.The tracks are great, and are littered with hazards such as piles of logs which lurk, waiting to launch you through the non-existent front windscreen of your car if you catch them. As you win prize money, you can upgrade your car, as in Gran Turismo. There are also plenty of extraneous objects you can demolish while racing, and car feel is excellent, making the switch between surfaces enjoyably realistic.But Flat Out's originality is rooted in a number of Burnout-style mini-games, in which you launch your driver through the windscreen and watch him fall like a rag doll. The main drawback is that it does not contain as many tracks as it should so feels a bit insubstantial. But factor in superb graphics (especially in the Xbox version) and you have a game that is great fun, well executed and fairly satisfying.Steve BoxerTop 5 games(All formats)1. Halo 22. Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas3. WWE Smackdown! v Raw4. Fifa 20055. Football Manager 2005&#183;Source: Elspa, compiled by ChartTrack&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
For PC gamers, 2004 was marked as the year of the sequel, with all-time favourites such as Doom, Half Life, Deus Ex, The Sims and Everquest receiving major makeovers, causing the web to groan under the weight of debate. Such was the importance of some sequels that Nvidia and Ati were happy to boast that their &#163;300 graphics cards were custom-designed to show off a single &#163;35 game, while publishers were busy suing their developers to stop them releasing their own products on time.Compiling our top 10 PC games caused plenty of heated debate among our reviewers. Half Life 2 was just one of the topics they disagreed about. Pacific Assault but no Far Cry? World of Warcraft on the strength of a beta and a server full of sycophants? That's bending the rules! Nevertheless, with the battleground moving towards massively multiplayer options (MMO), the realisation we are going to be spending a lot more time playing games just to keep up with fans was hard to deny. If this year was about sequels, next year will be about MMO - so if you don't have 1Mbps broadband, you are about to lose touch with gaming. You have been warned...Mike AnderieszHalf Life 2"Much anticipated - and much delayed - the initial play has blown us away." See the full review next week.Greg HowsonRome: Total War"As far as war games go, Creative Assembly has raised the bar so high other developers must be reaching for the hemlock."Mike AnderieszThe Sims 2"An absolute treat. The vastly improved graphics make you really care about your Sim... a fantastic achievement."Greg HowsonDoom 3"Doom 3 continually delivers visual treats. What it doesn't deliver is anything approaching an original idea. But in this case, it doesn't matter."Greg HowsonFootball Manager 2005"As stunning as one would expect from Sports Interactive, which retained the rights to use Championship Manager's database. You'll find Football Manager 2005 as satisfying as CM, if not more so."Steve BoxerThief 3: Deadly Shadows"You will find Deadly Shadows retains much of the original Thief magic."Rhianna PratchettPrince of Persia: Warrior Within"To PC owners starved of console-inspired games, it is a rare treat to find the best example converted so proficiently. Time Stretching abilities make the game a sheer delight to watch."Mike AnderieszWorld of Warcraft"The long-awaited MMORPG is still in beta but already massively popular."Rhianna PratchettEverquest 2"Looks set to grip the western world in the same way its predecessor did -and will no doubt generate a few headlines in the process."Rhianna PratchettMedal of Honor: Pacific Assault"The Medal of Honor team survived mass desertion and still produced hell in the Pacific."Mike Anderiesz&#183;Next week we shortlist the 10 best mobile and handheld games of 2004.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
It was John Coomber's daughter Tracy who first got him blogging. The 65-year-old former salesman liked writing letters to the newspapers. His daughter suggested blogs could be another way of getting his ideas out there. "She said, as you think it, you can blog it." Coomber started his Big John blog (http://bigjohn.blog-city.com) in December, a month after retiring. He posts about four times a week - "observations on everyday events mainly, some politics, some humour, an 'oldies' view of the world. I do rant quite a bit." His blog is "mainly personal", about sharing memories. "But I hope to make people aware of certain problems and facts, and get them thinking."Many in the online world are now thinking about "silver surfers" such as John. Ten years ago, the conventional wisdom was that older people just didn't get the net. Online businesses now take a more grown-up attitude. With the population ageing and a distinct group of wealthy older consumers beginning to emerge, it is hardly surprising.There are signs that the numbers of older net users are growing steadily. Forrester Research's Consumer Technographics survey (done in the second quarter of this year) indicates there are now 20.7m net users in Europe over 55, with 25% of European seniors now online. Research released by Age Concern last month shows that more than 35% of British over-50s used the net in the past year, and of that group, 41% log on every day.However, in both surveys, the "young old" - those aged between 50 and 65 - are driving the growth. The Age Concern data indicates that only 20% of those aged over 65 have ever gone online, while around 58% of   those surveyed thought they were unlikely to try the net. "There is a core group of older users who remain unconvinced," says Reineke Reitsma, Forrester's quantitative research manager for Europe. "They're holding out, at the risk of being left out when it comes to the benefits of the net."Coomber's blog opens with a humorous strapline: "Warning - Elderly People Blogging", and makes a point of his age. His biography is on the front page - his membership of the first generation of teenagers, national service and his 45-year marriage. However, he hasn't found any similar blogs online. Aside from family and friends, he thinks the people reading his blog are "mostly thirty or fortysomethings. The young seem to think they 'own' blogging. But they are very kind with their comments."Although Coomber has older relatives who use the net - he mentions his uncle George, in his early 80s, who shares digital photos via email - most old people he knows are still afraid of computers and alienated by net jargon. He learnt to use computers and the net at work and has had advice from his daughter. But most people his age or over never used the net at work and, because their children are a little bit older, they have never had a PC at home. "So a lot of them are frightened. Education is what is needed."Organisations such as Age Concern - with help from Microsoft and Cable and Wireless - are attempting to bring the net to the over 65s, via events such as the Silver Surfer festival (www.ageconcern.org.uk/silversurfer), a series of net "taster" sessions held at around 100 Age Concern sites during the past month. Though aimed at all over-50s, most   attendees were in their late 70s / early 80s, according to Elizabeth Hickey, a spokeswoman for Age Concern. The idea behind the festival is to show older people the net in a familiar social setting. "When you're there, surfing with your real-world peers, it makes it all seem less threatening."Other initiatives by Age Concern/ Microsoft include mobile net taster sessions across the UK and a roving IT bus (aka the Mini Explorer) based in the south-west, all of which aim to bring the net to day-care centres, sheltered housing and residential/ nursing homes. According to Hickey, the net can be life changing for many older people.It is not just about the obvious benefits on offer - contact with friends and family and easy access to information about health, products, hobbies and government services. In a more general sense, the net can help them feel "connected" to wider society. More could be done to help the over-65s benefit from the net,   says Hickey "And if business addresses the older users now, they will learn more about holding on to people in their 50s to 65s as they mature. They should speak more to older users now. Otherwise, they risk losing customers in the long run."According to Alistair Baker, Microsoft UK's managing director, the "young old are already a significant part of the online economy". They are set to become more significant over time, he continues. "We're going to see a group of wealthy olderconsumers, with time and money, looking to spend but very focused on value for money."Tapping into this market will pose some specific challenges. For one thing, the 50 to 65 age group don't think of themselves as "old", as "silver surfers". Although this group is often net and computer literate, thanks to exposure at work and home, they don't have much tolerance for technological novelty, according to Peter Bettley, head of public relations    at Saga (www.saga.co.uk).The company has been gradually developing its online presence over the past few years, he says. It is currently focused on encouraging repeat visits and gradually building traffic, via services such as Saga Circles, which helps users contact old friends and work colleagues or start up new relationships. Given that, Saga takes great care over web design, says Bettley. Its regular usability tests show that "some navigational tools that are effective for younger audiences simply don't work with our market. Web design for people over 50 has to recognise that what works for younger people will not necessarily work for older people."Bettley says Saga is developing slowly, recognising that this market is a "slow burn - it takes a while for them to develop". Demographic surveys indicate that the 50 to 65-year-old generation follow the same online developmental curve as younger people, starting   with email and searching, then eventually moving on to shopping. However, it takes older users longer to develop, perhaps because their worries over security are more pronounced.Despite this, Forrester's Reitsma says if this demographic can see clear benefits, they embrace online activities. She points to researching holidays online. Once you get online, it is clear there is more choice and better prices, she says. As a result, the 50 to 65-year age group now lead the way in this area. Forrester's Consumer Technographics Survey shows that 58% of UK seniors have researched holidays online (compared with 51% of all online Europeans). Other popular activities include online banking and sharing digital photos via email.Silver surfers are less keen about buying online in general. Forrester's research shows that just 6% of European seniors have bought something online in the past three months. But Reitsma cautions against assuming that older users will always shun some net activities. If they have access to technology and knowledge, and can see benefits, they will get involved. Reitsma says some older people, spurred on by the example of their children, are downloading music from file-sharing networks. "There is evidence that they worry more about the legality of it, but they still do it."Might older users also follow the young and use the net as a political tool? Over the next 10 years, could the net become a channel for silver surfer activism? To an extent, it is happening already. You can download copies of the Pensioner's Manifesto online (www.pensionersmanifesto.co.uk) and read about campaigns at sites such as the National Pensioners Convention (www.natpencon.org.uk).According to John Lynch, the retired 69 year old who helped design the NPC site and runs his own Seniors Network site (www.seniorsnetwork.co.uk), pensioner activists use the net to circulate information, but these are still early days. The real challenge is to get more older people online and talking to each other. That requires access issues to be addressed, he says. Most old people simply can't afford to buy a computer and pay for net access. He says he hopes he is doing his own small bit by putting up content and links to other sites that might interest silver surfers.Seniors Network has been growing gradually over the past two years. Lynch has a good eye for what might interest his fellow silver surfers. Travel insurance information is popular. "If you're over 60, you pay through the nose for it. So people were interested in my recommendations in the past." He's had to discontinue this recently. He doesn't have time to keep up with all the deals on offer. And, in general, he is struggling to keep Seniors Network afloat. It is "a labour of love", he says, and he is trying to generate some advertising revenue.In contrast to corporate/charity-sponsored attempts to get older people online, his site represents something silver surfers are doing for themselves. "I'm determined to keep it going," says Lynch, "because I think it does play a small part in helping older people to communicate with each other and get the best out of the net."
An innovation from Amazon.co.uk? While browsing for a copy of The Day Today on DVD, Amazon offered it for £15.99. But, to one side of the page there is a little blue box titledAmazon Jerseyoffering the same thing for just £11.75, "UK delivery only - get this item for even less from Amazon Jersey". A tricky one here for Gordon Brown and the Treasury, when sites like Amazon start selling VAT-free CDs and DVDs via Jersey. After all, he collects a cool £70bn a year from Vat. He wouldn't want too much of that to go walkabout (Thanks to Richard Adams for this one). The company explains:"Amazon.co.uk prices include UK VAT. Amazon Jersey prices are lower than Amazon.co.uk prices because: (a) the Isle of Jersey does not charge VAT on products purchased in Jersey;and (b) when products are imported into the UK, VAT is usually payable in the UK by the importer of record (the customer is considered the importer of record in respect of items purchased from Amazon Jersey). However, there are special tax and customs regulations that exempt deliveries of 'low value' goods (goods with a total value below £18) from import VAT". So that's alright then . . .
After the EA spousespoke upa couple of weeks ago about the conditions of games industry employees, the lines have been buzzing, with a whole host of organisations determined not to shove this issue under the carpet - again. TheInternational Game Development Associationhas published anopen letterto, well, everyone which provides good links to some of the major points, celebrates top dev houses for their ability to balance life and work, and directs all readers to their superb (and harrowing)Quality of Life White Paper. I'm particularly looking forward to their list of "best companies to work for"; it should be a good boost for some of the unknowns who struggle against the behemoths.There are a couple of other things to consider that need to be addressed regarding this issue which seem to be slipping under the radar of many discussions.Firstly, it is important to remember that games is not the only work-them-until-they-bleed industry. I recall speaking with a woman at theWomen in Games ConferenceUK who had come to work for a UK developer from television because making games is perceived as being a relative walk in the park. This is regardless of unionisation in the TV and Film industries.Secondly, the issue has serious ramifications for the perceived importance of diversifying the games industry; doing a "double shift" under normal circumstances is tough for the majority of women, but combining a family life and 80+ hours per week is simply impossible.Finally, and perhaps most controversially, is the UK going to wait until the US games industry makes some decisions and then follow along in their giant footsteps, or will there be a movement from this side of the proverbial pond which sets the precedent for international games developers?
Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas last week "became Britain's fastest-selling videogame", announced theSun. "It made &#163;35m from 1m sales in nine days." TheTimesnoted that its first-week gross surpassed cinema records, "beating the British record box-office receipts generated by Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban". In the US, it is "estimated to sell around 5m copies before the year's end", said theNew York Post.The success of the fifth in Edinburgh-based Rockstar Games' Grand Theft Auto (GTA) series, for PlayStation 2, was a reminder that "a little sex mixed with plenty of violence does your sales figures no harm at all," said Matthew Magee in theScotsman.This is no Space Invaders, no Pacman. "As a car-bound criminal in the game, your job is to build a criminal empire. One way to gather cash is to hire a prostitute, pay for sexual favours and then kill the woman, taking her earnings." Indeed, it is "jam-packed with the sort of aggressive, violent, antisocial shenanigans that keep our jails packed to capacity", said the NY Post. No surprise, then, that the game also sports an 18 certificate.Yet any outcry is relatively muted. "GTA's depiction of sex and crime and all things grimey sparked moral outrage in its day, but these days everyone is chasing Rockstar's tail in the bid to release the steamiest, most grown-up games on the block," said Magee.The size of the industry might come as a surprise to those whose last videogame excursion involved gobbling dots and dodging ghosts. Estimates of global videogame profits range from $10bn to $30bn (&#163;5.5bn-&#163;16bn), noted Gloria Goodale in the US- basedChristian Science Monitor, and "as the demographic ages (players include those in their 20s and 30s) and the industry begins to beat movies' box office, pundits say it's time to acknowledge a cultural change at work."But it isn't - is it - art? Over to Steven Poole in Glasgow'sSunday Herald. "We can't say that GTA: San Andreas is the videogame equivalent of Battleship Potemkin," he said, "but, in its anarchic breadth and sophistication, it's another signpost on the road to a very interesting future."
"Hollywood's major movie studios started production on their latest epic today, a remake of the recording industry's aggressive legal campaign to stop the illegal trading of copyrighted works on the Internet. The lawsuits, filed against hundreds of people suspected of trading movies online, are a first for the studios and are paired with an ambitious public education effort aimed at curtailing online piracy before it makes a significant dent in the film industry's bottom line," reportsThe Washington Post."The lawsuits were filed in federal courts across the country by Disney, Warner Bros., MGM, Universal, Fox, Paramount and Sony, said MPAA spokesman Rich Taylor. Taylor declined to say exactly how many suits the studios filed or where they filed them."
"A team of documentary filmmakers completed its quest to pilot the Segway Human Transporter across the United States on Tuesday as rider Josh Caldwell successfully navigated his trusty scooter across an invisible finish line in plain view of the Atlantic Ocean," reportsCNet."Looking tired and cold, but enthused by his achievement, Caldwell posed for pictures in front of a small gathering of interested onlookers, reporters and Segway enthusiasts. The trip, dubbed 'America at 10mph,' started on Aug. 9 in Seattle and took the five-person team across 14 states."See the photoshere
The National Hi-Tech Crime Unit rightly warns of the threats from online theft and extortion (Hordes of web bots do crooks' bidding, November 13), but the danger is not just to business. The computer systems that support the critical national infrastructure are all vulnerable to serious disruption with potentially enormous consequences for public utilities, food distribution, or the financial system.The threat could come from teenage hackers with no more motivation than proving that it can be done, but even more seriously it could come from cyber-terrorists. General John Gordon, the White House homeland security adviser, has said he believes Osama bin Laden plans to use the internet to cause serious damage to economies in the west; North Korea may have trained as many as 600 computer hackers, according to South Korea; and the UK Coastguard Service was laid low by the Sasser worm in May.I have sought through parliamentary questions clarity as to what measures are in place to protect against such attacks. The responses all referred to the pivotal role of the national infrastructure security coordination centre established in 1999. But the NISCC is only an advisory body and each element of the critical national infrastructure is responsible for its own defence - the NISCC does not even know how many computer systems comprise the UK's critical national infrastructure.In practice, no governmental organisation has operational responsibility for managing defence against systematic cyber-attack. MI5 is right to warn of such an attack. What is surprising is the degree of complacency about addressing the threat.Toby HarrisLab, House of Lords
1.Halo 22.Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas3.WWE Smackdown! Vs Raw4.Fifa 20055.Football Manager 20056.Getaway: Black Monday7.Pro Evolution Soccer 48.Lord of the Rings: The Third Age9.Sonic Heroes10.The Urbz: Sims in the CitySource: Elspa, compiled by ChartTrack
Playing San Andreas and Midtown Madness 3 over the weekend got me thinking about the gradual homogenisation of videogame design. The driving game is merging with the action adventure, the first-person shooter with the combat strategy simulation. Of course, the cyclical nature of the videogame industry has always meant that genres have risen, briefly prospered and then fallen away, but could that process be accelerating toward some sort of apocalyptic culmination as the increased power of the latest games machines leads to a new era of super genres? Could more specialised game types simply shut down like those defunct genes in the human genome? Here's a list of coffin-dodging genres that may well be on the verge of succumbing...The beat 'em upIn the mid-nineties, fighting games were massively successful in both the arcade and home console markets, with titles like Tekken and Virtua Fighter acting as million-selling showcases for the 3D graphics revolution. Where are they now? Gamers have fallen out of love with spatially limited combat, and with learning hundreds of button combinations (only to be made a fool of by some clueless newbie who beats you by randomly smacking the buttons like an angry chimp). The forthcomingSNK vs Capcomtitle might revive our interest. But I doubt it.The flight shooterThis genre hit its peak of popularity with Afterburner in the mid-eighties and has been in a spiralling nosedive ever since. Namco has attempted to keep the jets burning with the Ace Combat series, and last year's very decent Secret Weapons Over Normandy tried its best to revive the scene, but the masses aren't interested. Strangely, in multiplayer games like Battlefield 1942, you get kids hanging around on landing strips slaughtering their team-mates like dogs in order to secure a recently spawned bomber. However, this has more to do with being able to kill many more people from the air than you can from the ground, thus securing better rankings. The same kids would probably run a mile if they were asked to play Ace Combat 5.Perhaps, however accessible these games are, they're just too close to the phrase 'flight sim' for most peoples' comfort. Perhaps we have an inherent fear of anything that requires us to understand the concept of 'yaw control'.The real-time strategyIn the wake of Total Annihilation, almost every PC title was an RTS. It was as though developers believed they had at last found a 100% guaranteed cash cow. There are still some excellent examples - Rome: Total War, Lord of the Rings: Battle For Middle Earth, etc - but the frantic, thinking-persons' shoot out is a shadow of its former self. The squad-based shooter is the new RTS. I read that in Vogue.The F1 simIt was the annual grind that killed this one. Every year, the same cars, same tracks, same drivers - just a few graphical tweaks and some nonsensical tech claims ("new quantum downforce physics!"). The decline of the sport itself as a exciting spectator event hasn't helped much, of course. It's just a parade nowadays, isn't it?In fact, rally games are losing much of their appeal too - again because the latest iterations are just slightly better looking versions of what came before. Or perhaps it's because racing is no longer entertaining enough as a standalone gaming pursuit. We want Petter Solberg to get out of his car, smack Carlos Sainz, steal a Mitsubishi Lancer and then drive it into the back of a hot dog van.The god gamePopulous, Civilization, Sim City: gaming gods, now reduced to mere mortal status. Having boundless power over the fate of an entire people seems intimidating and impersonal to today's more emotionally focused gamer. Instead, we like to micro-manage, playing with everyday lives (The Sims), or lone capitalist endeavours (Roller Coaster Tycoon 3). With Fable, even Peter Molyneux has dropped the omniscience and gone personal. CanBlack and White 2revive our interest in deity simulation?The arena-based vehicle combat gameThis bizarre sub-genre, championed by the likes of Twisted Metal and Vigilante 8 in the mid-nineties, is still grimly hanging on in there, but only as a minority pursuit for the sort of people who banged their heads against things as children. The more sophisticated driving adventure now fulfils the auto-destructive desires of most gamers.The graphical adventureEveryone of a certain age claims to havelovedthe Lucas Arts point and click adventures. The likes of Monkey Island, Maniac Mansion and Full Throttle brought us humour, brilliant story-telling and cunning lateral puzzles. But recent attempts to revive the pure adventure genre have ended in disappointment: Broken Sword Sleeping Dragon failed to make much of an impression on the sales charts, while Lucas Arts has canned proposed sequels to Full Throttle and Sam and Max Hit The Road. We just didn't love them enough, it seems.However, perhaps the genre is about to be re-born on mobile. German developer Elkware has a range of simple graphical adventure titles similar to the likes of The Hobbit and The Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy. Go to thewebsiteand click on Secret of the Lost Link in the bottom right-hand corner...The 2D shooterOf course, this genre - once the undisputed king of gaming - has been a minority interest for years. Japan still produces a mystifying array of scrolling blasters for its domestic market, and some of these, including the latest Metal Slug and Gradius titles are still getting European releases. But relentlessly demanding twitch gameplay is never going to pull in the crowds as it once did, because the average age of the gamer has risen. Few people over 14 retain the hyper-spasmodic reflexes necessary to achieve success in something likeIkaruga. Those that do are usually receiving medical treatment for it.The puzzle gameWhen we buy a PS2 or Xbox title these days, we have been conditioned to expect an epic experience, a real-time 3D world five times the size of Texas. Despite the undeniable brilliance of Tetris and Puzzle Bobble, we no longer want to see little shapes falling down the screen, or cute dragons firing bubbles. Our understanding of immersive interactive entertainment has mutated to such an extent that we are now only capable of accepting close approximations of our own environment.However, it could be argued that the natural home of the puzzle game is the handheld device as puzzling is more of a time wasting than an objective-based pursuit, and we're more likely to want to waste time when we're on the move. Also, we'll accept simple, non-realistic graphics on a tiny screen. Puzzle games are, after all, still reasonably common on the GBA, and they're doing extremely well on mobile.But then, the launch of the super-powered PSP and DS devices could kill them off once and for all...The cute character-based adventureCrash, Spyro, Ratchet and Clank, Jak and Daxter - are their kind long for this world? Does the Miyamoto school of character design still charm us as it once did? This isn't really another 'modern gamers demand realism' argument; non-naturalistic characters still have a place in gaming. But these days, it seems they must have an 'edge'. The design ethic behind Viewtiful Joe is a world away from the boggle-eyed baby style of Spyro and his ilk. He's darker, his world is darker, the objectives are darker. Maybe, in a world currently obsessed with war and terror, the infantilism of a cartoon bandicoot seems out of place. Or maybe gamers are just waiting for the next cartoon gaming hero. Just one last cute little animal to make everything alright.
Retro gamers may scoff, but I think that this is a golden age for gamers, and not just becauseHalf Life 2is finally out today. The last few weeks have seen the breathless release of genuine classics on all formats. The obvious biggies may be sequels, but GTA: San Andreas (PS2), Halo 2 (Xbox) and Half Life 2 (PC) have honed their templates to an incredibly high standard.Then there is the life-sapping and hugely ambitiousRome: Total Waron PC and the charming and uniqueAnimal Crossingfor Gamecube. Elsewhere there is Zelda: Minish Cap for GBA, Pro Evo 4, and the list goes on. Even the vast array of middling games - Getaway, Jak 3, Flatout - are vastly better than their average cousins from even two years ago.It could be down to the maturing console platforms, or it could be luck - Half Life 2 and Rome coming together at the same time. But whatever the causes, this IS a gaming golden age. So what do you think? 2004 best year for games ever?
"IBM plans today to announce a project to harness untapped computing power from millions of personal computers to help unlock the genetic mysteries of illnesses like AIDS, Alzheimer's disease, malaria and cancer," reports theNew York Times."The project, called the World Community Grid, was developed in collaboration with the National Institutes of Health, the World Health Organization, the United Nations and other organizations, and represents a significant step in the use of the Internet to foster collaborative scientific research.""The goal is to combine computer resources and the shared knowledge of researchers to accelerate the pace of scientific discovery."
Vodafone, the world's largest mobile phone company, today gave shareholders an early Christmas present by doubling its half-year dividend to 1.91p and extending a share buy-back programme.The increase in dividend came despite a 6% fall in core profits to £6.5bn in the six months to September 30, partly due to the cost of offloading its Japanese fixed-line business.But the firm, which last week announced the commercial launch of third-generation (3G) services - video calls, music downloads and games - said revenue grew by 6%, boosted by strong customer growth in the UK, Spain, Germany and the United States. This offset weakness in its struggling Japanese unit, Vodafone Holdings KK."Overall the business is performing well and on track with our expectations at the beginning of the year," Arun Sarin, the chief executive said, gently nudging up customer forecasts.Mr Sarin said the strong underlying cash flows of the business, coupled with good growth prospects, had enabled the company to review its dividend policy. He said the company now expected to boost customer numbers excluding acquisitions by around 10%, rather than high, single-digit growth.Vodafone said it had won 7.4 million new customers in the first half, raising its subscriber base to 146.7 million. Only China Mobile (Hong Kong), with about 194.4 million subscribers, is larger.On its 3G launch last week Vodafone said it had provided customers in 13 markets with a "compelling set of new services". Vodafone said it hoped to have 10 million customers using 3G by the end of March 2006.Mr Sarin said: "Following the successful launch of 3G services, we are excited about our growth opportunities and ability to leverage global scale and scope advantages."
Watching a computer screen for nine or more hours a day might be linked to a progressive eye disease that can blind without treatment, researchers warned yesterday.The risk of developing glaucoma this way was highest for those with short sight, they said in a study which provided more bad news for male office workers and professionals.They were told by New York eye specialists last year that wearing a tightly knotted tie could make the condition more likely.The potential dangers of the booming use of new technology in the office and at home were outlined by researchers at the Toho University school of medicine in Tokyo, Japan, in the Journal of Epidemiology. They tested 10,000 workers with an average age of 43 as part of a general medical check-up as well as collecting their histories of computer use and eye disease.Just over 5% had visual field abnormalities and there appeared to be a significant link between these and heavy computer use among those with long or short sight. But detailed eye tests revealed that a third of these had suspected glaucoma, and this was more obvious in those with myopia.A link with short sight has already been established for glaucoma, a disease in which fluid cannot flow out of the eye because meshwork in the coloured part, the iris, has become blocked. Pressure then builds up, threatening damage to nerve fibres in the back of the eye and the optic nerve.But the added ingredient of heavy computer use, while long debated as a possible risk factor for short sight, has not been studied for glaucoma, according to David Wright, chief executive of the International Glaucoma Association (IGA), who said the researchers "have provided a fascinating study that needs to be followed up".About 2% of people over 40 develop glaucoma, which if diagnosed early can usually be treated with eyedrops. "Anyone over 40 should have regular, routine and comprehensive eye tests," said Mr Wright.There were comparatively few women in the Japanese study because men comprise most of the workforce there. The researchers also said it was difficult to establish exactly who might have had a family history of glaucoma because it often went undiagnosed for a long time.They suggested, however, that the optic nerve in myopic eyes might be much more susceptible to computer stress. "Computer stress is reaching higher levels than has ever been experienced before. In the next decade, therefore, it might be important for public health professionals to show more concern about myopia and visual field abnormalities in heavy computer users."The type of chronic glaucoma that was a concern in the Japanese study is the most prevalent in Caucasian and African-Caribbean populations.Close blood relatives of people who have glaucoma are at far higher risk, and the IGA says such people should be tested from the age of 35, rather than 40. For African-Caribbeans, for whom the risk is four times as high as whites, or for those with diabetes, testing should be done even earlier.If the condition is advanced, or drops fail to reduce eye pressure, surgery might be needed to make an extra drainage channel in the white of the eye. Alternatively, laser treatment might be used to improve the flow of fluid through the meshwork around the iris.
In a move that may mean the beginning of the end for player-created content in games, comic book publishersMarvelhave claimed that the Massively Multiplayer Online superhero simulationCity of Heroesis in breach of copyright codes. The company points to tribute-style game personas designed, developed and maintained by subscribers to the City of Heroes service that are based upon those characters in their hallowed halls, like Spidey, the Hulk and the X-Men.CoH may have taken the template of comic book culture as inspiration, however this does not imply that they set out to step on Marvel's toes. All they did was provide the tools for the generation of characters. What players do with them, and how they modify them off their own steam, should ostensibly be of no one's concern. A result in Marvel's favour may mean a real limitation on any future gamer-generated creativity within virtual worlds.Perhaps after witnessing the tremendous success of CoH, Marvel may feel they've missed out on a potential cash cow and are licking their wounds with their financial prowess. AsGamespotsuggests, this move may point to a future Marvel Massively Multiplayer Online Game.Intelligent and eloquent discussions about the implications of this suit on the future of player-rights are currently underway atTerra Novaand/..
Welcome to the digest entry of The Guardian's gamesblog, where we transform the profound into the bite-sized. Grab a cuppa and expand your mind, gamesblog style.n.b. Apologies for the tardiness of this digest. I ran into a tree and became concussed.MondayHello Halo - a review of the reviews for Halo 2.Counter-Strike linked with murder. Sigh.Games aren't funnyTuesdayBoxing the Sturkenbooms for The Sims 2 - bizarre marketing ploys that have beenGamers go gaga for GTA:SA, breaking even more records along the wayWednesdayVodafone launches their 3G serviceGamers prefer games to TV shockerViewtiful Joe goes wrestlingLocked Out - Xbox Live punishes hackers and piratesHalo 2: "biggest media launch ever"ThursdayBreaking new bands through video gamesAll challenged out: An EA widow speaks upFridayGames of the week.Why games aren't funny: A follow-up
Sporting Options, a small Sussex-based online betting exchange which has stunned customers and rivals with its apparent rapid growth, was yesterday placed in administration and police are believed to have been called in to investigate possible misuse of punters accounts.The move comes three months after Blue Square, an online division of gambling group Rank, ended discussions with Sporting Options over a possible &#163;4m acquisition of the privately owned business.The episode is likely to be seized upon by supporters of the government's gambling bill, much of which is designed to regulate online betting.Sporting Options was launched four years ago by former City options traders, Robert Byrne and Kevin Griffiths. Later the business attracted considerable attention after it appeared, on some sporting events, to be matching bets worth between 10% and 15% of those matched by Britain's main exchange business Betfair. Other rivals to market-dominant Betfair have struggled to increase liquidity at this rate.Mr Byrne, who left Sporting Options some months ago, declined to comment last night.Betting exchanges thrive on liquidity as customers flock to websites where they are confident their bet can be paired up with a matching counterbet. The business model therefore favours the larger, more established operators.Several rivals have speculated that the owners of Sporting Options were using their own funds to create the liquidity necessary to keep it growing. This is not illegal.Police are believed to have been called in on the back of growing concern that punters' betting accounts could have been used to support liquidity.Yesterday Betfair issued a statement reassuring clients their deposits are safe. "Our client funds are held on trust in ring-fenced client accounts with the Royal Bank of Scotland and are completely segregated from company funds ... Under no circumstances could third parties have a claim on Betfair clients' money."The appointed administrators to Sporting Options, Menzies Corporate Restructuring, have suspended all betting activity on the firm's website. In a statement, they said: "At this early stage we are currently assessing the financial position of the company and reviewing its business operations." Sporting Options has also been thrown out of the Betting Exchange Trade Association."The decision was taken by the Beta executive committee on the basis of Sporting Options having been found to be in material breach of the code of practice for betting exchanges," it said in a statement.The company, based out of offices in Burgess Hill, Sussex, is understood to be primarily owned by co-founder Mr Griffiths, with other shareholders including a circle of friends and family.Accounts filed with Companies House for the year to April 2003 show a loss of almost &#163;1m and the company was well known to be under funding strain. Its bank, HSBC, declined to comment last night.There is speculation that Betfair could be preparing to step in to ensure that Sporting Options punters' potential losses are covered following the move into administration. It is keen not to see the reputation of exchanges sullied by the episode. With other operators it has fought hard to stress the integrity of the betting exchange model, which has been attacked in recent years by traditional bookmakers as open to race-fixing abuse.
ITNET, the troubled technology outsourcing group, yesterday admitted it was in preliminary talks about a takeover which could be worth &#163;200m and make a multi-millionaire of chief executive Bridget Blow.Shares in the company, which has contracts with many local authorities, rose more than 10% to 260p on top of gains made last week as speculation started about a possible merger.Ms Blow's stake in ITNET could net her &#163;6m in the event of a takeover at 300p, the price at which many analysts believe the business would change hands.A range of IT and support services firms such as Capita are seen as potential suitors for ITNET which was bought out from Cadbury Schweppes nine years ago by Ms Blow and some colleagues.ITNET has been through a turbulent period since this summer when the government pulled the plug on a five-year contract worth &#163;83m to manage its internet systems.The company had suffered a similar fate with a local authority when Hackney council in east London cancelled an outsourcing deal.Yesterday ITNET said in a formal statement it was in "preliminary discussions, which may or may not lead to an offer for the whole part of the issued share capital of ITNET".The company, which does consulting and implementing rather than building IT systems, added: "A further announcement will be made in due course."Stockbrokers, Shore Capital, believed the takeover talks resulted directly from recent troubles. A change of management could help to refocus ITNET back onto high quality contracts such as the one it holds for Birmingham city council, argued Shore."We believe that a new management team, or a new owner, could move the business away from reputational issues and reinvigorate the longterm prospects in a still healthy public sector market," said analyst, Robin Speakman.The government complained that its internet project was late and looked likely to go well over budget. Its pullout sent the ITNET share price falling by 40%. The company blamed delays on the government introducing "significant changes" to the contract after it was signed. ITNET wants to be reimbursed for the investment and has started litigation to try to achieve this.ITNET has previously insisted that the loss of the contract would not have an effect on revenues this year but operating profits were expected to be at "a somewhat lower overall margin".
Two quick stories from 3gnewsroom.com. Sega has developed a 3D tennis sim for Vodafone's 3G enabled handsets. It's calledSuper Real Tennisand features a super simple control interface (one button to hit the ball, so you don't get the usual lob option). We're not quite sure why the company hasn't stuck with its Virtua Tennis brand - perhaps 'Super Real' isn't quite as real as 'Virtual'? Who knows. It's out in December anyway.Also, a Hong Kong developer named Artifical Life has just released the world's most advanced dating sim onto 3G phones.V-Girl Version 1features:"...artificial intelligence, text to speech, real time chat, sophisticated user profiling and user specific content delivery, high quality 3D animations and graphics, context sensitive functions and menu icons, over 3000 different video and audio streams, built in user contests, games-in-game functions and... intelligent, interactive product placement opportunities for sponsors and advertisers."Why, that's almost everything a man looks for in areallady!
"When Sun Microsystems Inc. rolls out the latest overhaul of its flagship software for running computer networks today, executives are likely to tout enhancements such as diagnostic tools that increase productivity by a third."But the big eyebrow raiser of Solaris 10 will be its price: Free," saysThe LA Times."The dramatic discount — previous versions of Solaris sold for hundreds or thousands of dollars — is a response to the growing threat that free and open-source software such as Linux poses to traditional software companies including Sun and Microsoft Corp. It's also the center of Sun's strategy to regain at least some of its former shine."Comment:Sun has acount-up page. . .
"Doug" has downloaded almost a million songs in order to preserve recorded music in the event that World War III turns nasty. There's a long interview with him on MacNET (here), where he raises a good but not entirely new point about the change of perception that comes with the shift from owning atoms to owning bits.Doug:Before iTMS people had to rip their CD's in order to fill up their iPods, or download it from a pirate site. A lot of people still believed that owning the CD was important. I see a change coming. In the beginning of the iTMS revolution people would buy songs as an impulse purchase. They would still rather buy a physical CD of a band or a singer that they really liked. They were using iTMS as a supplement to their CD collection. That is changing. Lots of people are now buying ONLY the digital album. They buy the latest album from, say, Green Day, without buying the CD. They might like Green Day, consider that band their favorite, and now owning just the digital album from iTMS is enough. They don't need the CD anymore. Because of that, owning only digital music is becoming an accepted way of owning music.For some reason lots of people thought that the music they owned on CD and ripped with iTunes was their legitimate music, and the digital music they downloaded from Napster was not. Now, a pirate can download music from iTMS or some torrent site and both have the same value to the owner. This is a dangerous time for record companies.MacNET:How so?Doug:Think about it. Once people adjust to owning digital music the line between the music on CD verses owning it from a torrent site gets blurred. You pay $9.99 or so for a digital album and your friend downloads the same album from a torrent site. You no longer have a better product because you bought yours and your friend didn't. You spent money, he didn't, and you both now have the very same product. In fact, a lot of albums I get these days from torrents are ripped at a much higher quality than Apple's. Now who owns the better product?
International child protection experts met in  Bangkok last week to discuss strategies to combat the rising problem of child prostitution and trafficking in the East Asia and the Pacific. The conference, organised by Unicef, drew government representatives from China, Indonesia, Japan, South Korea, Australia, Vietnam, Cambodia, Philippines, Malaysia, Laos, Cambodia, Mongolia, the Solomon Islands, Papua New Guinea and Timor, and Thailand.We were there to address a range of problems affecting children who get ensnared in commercial sexual exploitation across the region. In South East Asia armed criminal gangs simply walk across borders into countries such as Burma, Laos and Cambodia and kidnap children. These children are then trafficked to Bangkok and all points north, south, east and west, where they become sex slaves.Some families sell some of their children to the gangs, condemning them to this kind of vile servitude. Other children either knowingly volunteer or are tricked into it, off the back of the promise of a well-paid job in a big city. Exactly which city, on which continent, does not always get mentioned.This exploitation has been driven by white men from Europe and North America travelling to this region to rape children. But the newly affluent and increasingly mobile Chinese are also becoming a significant source of demand for the brothels that house young children based, among other things, on a belief that having sex with a virgin is a powerful charm against or a cure for HIV/Aids. This depressing scenario is exacerbated by poverty, and the comparative underdevelopment of government and police infrastructures for tackling child abuse across the region.The criminal gangs trafficking children into Bangkok and elsewhere are also connected to the production of the child abuse images appearing on the internet and downloaded by paedophiles worldwide, including in Britain. The countries across the Far East and Pacific are keenly aware of how much their future prospects depend on their ability to use and have access to new technology, and therefore take the issue of online child abuse very seriously. The attitude and response of the Chinese government will be most crucial.Figures from the UK's Internet Watch Foundation (IWF) clearly illustrate the global nature of internet paedophilia. The IWF monitors the origins of all illegal child abuse images reported in the UK. The USA and Russia predominate in this roll call of shame. Criminals in these countries are the biggest suppliers of child pornography on the planet. Only two other countries are sufficiently large producers to warrant a specific mention. One is Brazil, the other is South Korea, each at 4%, compared with 55% and 23% respectively for the USA and Russia.The biggest ever police operation against online child pornography was against the Landslide website in Texas. A total of 250,000 men were found to have bought child pornography using their credit cards. They came from 59 different countries - and 7,200 names were from the UK. Three men were mainly responsible for supplying the images to Texas. One was Russian. The other two were Indonesian. Their names are known and were published. None of them was ever arrested.The message from the conference was clear. We cannot parcel up child sexual exploitation - be it online or offline - into neat divisions. It raises a worldwide challenge and we need new and more effective laws and technology to act internationally.&#183;John Carr is the internet adviser for the children's charity NCH
While the newBand Aidsingle looks set to top the music charts this Christmas, the games Number One looks far less of a foregone conclusion. Current blockbusters like GTA:San Andreas and Halo 2 may have seen their sales slow down by Christmas. Last year Need for Speed was the surprising winner, but what about this year? The bookies put Call of Duty: Finest Hour and GoldenEye: Rogue Agent as joint favourites at 4-1. What do you think? Read on for the full list...This year's hopefuls, compiled by Ladbrokes and trade association ELSPA contain, among others, the following titles:4/1 (joint favourite) - Call of Duty: Finest Hour4/1 (joint favourite) - GoldenEye: Rogue Agent7/1 - GTA: San Andreas7/1 - Need For Speed: Underground 28/1 - Halo 210/1 - FIFA 200510/1 - Burnout 3: Takedown10/1 - The Getaway: Black Monday12/1 - Tony Hawk: Underground 216/1 - Half Life 220/1 - Pro Evolution Soccer 420/1 - WWE: Smackdown vs Raw25/1 - SingStar: Party25/1 - Prince of Persia: The Warrior Within33/1 - Star Wars: Battlefront33/1 - Lord of the Rings: The Third Age33/1 - The Urbz33/1 - Mortal Kombat: Deception33/1 - Fight Club50/1 - Miami Vice50/1 - Football Manager 200550/1 - Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events50/1 - Ratchet and Clank 3
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Tuesday November 23, 2004The international news site on BBC Online is funded, like the BBC World Service, by a parliamentary grant-in-aid, administered by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, and not, as we said in error in the article below, by UK licence-fee payers.As a competitor to the BBC's online operation, my initial response to the news that they would be cutting back and refocusing the service was "about time too". As a user, my initial reaction was "I hope they don't axe the recipe-finder". BBC Online is one of the great successes that the corporation has pulled off in the past five years. Anticipating the internet and creating, at huge expense, one of the world's best websites which provides something for every one of its licence payers has been an awesome achievement. But the growth has been both blessed and blighted by being free of scrutiny and financial constraint. The freedom enjoyed by the BBC's new media division has led to much excellence and some gratuitous, unjustifiable expansionism.Outside the excellent core news site, the rich children's services, the community and regional services, the network has grown some superfluous and expensive offshoots. It also spends at least some money servicing a vast American audience - its extensive election coverage was oriented as much at the US as it was at the UK. This aspect of its business goes almost totally unquestioned, although it is entirely subsidised by the UK licence fee payers.The news that, in   the wake of the Graf report, the BBC is going to cut investment in the web and refocus on areas of genuine public service delivery would seem welcome.We can all live without the Celebdaq database, or even the compelling Roadies game, a surfing site, and its advice on parenting, if we have to. And the BBC should at least provide a transparent accounting of its targeting and serving pages to overseas audiences, particularly those in the US. However, and this is a big caveat, the idea that the BBC should take money from online and spend it on "other projects" may be a retrogressive step. There is, after all, plenty of output on its television stations which would not stand up to the "public service" test being overlayed on the website, which cost far more money. Furthermore, the future of the BBC is its website, in terms of a distribution technology and in terms of where its audiences will spend their "viewing" time.This is perhaps where the corporation has the biggest philosophical divide to cross. It has grown its website without ever making a case for it, and so it sits far outside the broadcasting B of the BBC. In ten years' time it is a safe bet that licence fee payers will spend as much if not more time online per week than they do watching the BBC. At the moment the BBC's website has a dis proportionately large share of "internet viewing". It has been able to afford to create the kinds of databases and services most online operatives can only dream about. It is entirely possible that its audience will value the website more highly than it does the more traditional audio-visual parts of the corporation. So the idea that the website is there to support programming could gradually become inverted.This is not a popular view with the traditionalists, but it doesn't take a rocket scientist to work out that going from nought to 22m page impressions a day in a decade makes the BBC's web operations the fastest-growing part of its output - its modification is also being made in response to the Graf report which rightly reflected industry concerns but also praised the scope and depth of the BBC's operation.The fact that the BBC has not yet mounted a spirited defence of the web is indicative of the profound difficulty it is having defining its future in a world where "broadcasting" is an increasingly quaint concept. The fact that the BBC has parented an enormous, globally rampaging e-paper frightens many of its management because it takes the organisation into bits of territory it never imagined it would enter. Judicious pruning will only make the central stalk of the plant stronger. At some point the BBC will have to make a collective call on what it really thinks about the net.It must be a trifle shaming that the BBC's total web budget is analogous to that of BBC3, despite having a bigger audience and more fans. Yet the justification of digital expansion comes far more easily to an organisation rooted in the business of TV and radio. Online is a hugely luxuriously operation compared to all other websites - when outsiders visit Guardian Unlimited they are often impressed at the resources, unless they are from the BBC, when the response is usually one of surprise and horror that our staffing levels are so paltry.Although it pains me to say it, the BBC is wrong to retreat from the web - it should repurpose expenditure within online rather than spending it on creaky bits of interactive television or an extra spangly leotard for Strictly Come Dancing. But it should also think of a strategy which puts the web at the heart of the BBC rather than its periphery if it is to safeguard its amazing achievement.&#183;Emily Bell is editor-in-chief of Guardian Unlimited
The cultural shift from reading papers to surfing the net appears to be speeding up. The effect on newspaper sales in the years after people began to buy televisions was so slow it was difficult to chart. By comparison, the internet revolution seem to be making a rapid change to people's habits.A study of recent declining circulation figures and the statistics which show the increasing use of newspaper websites suggests that the switch from print to screen is happening more swiftly than even many web missionaries might have predicted.People of all ages are becoming used to obtaining not only breaking news through their computers but also analysis of and comment on the day's main stories. Look at the recent figures, audited by ABC Electronic, for just five sites, recording "unique users" (UU) and "page impressions" (PI). The Guardian heads the unique user list with 9.55m in September. But its 96.4m page impressions were a little less than the Sun's 112.6m by 3.9m users in April.To put those in context, the latest figures for the other three titles, over the course of one month, were: Financial Times: PI, 58.2m and UU, 3.5m; the Times: PI, 19.7m and UU, 1.7m; Telegraph: PI, 30.5m and UU, 3.2m.Most observers believe that unique users are regarded as a more reliable method of evaluating web traffic as they indicate the number of individual readers. The term "page impressions" describes the total number of pages visited by users.These statistics were all improvements on the previous ones, indicating a marked increase in the numbers of users over the past couple of years, and the consistent growth is compelling proof that we are only in the foothills of the revolution. In the near future it is possible to imagine a potentially disastrous situation for printed newspapers in which their sales have fallen to levels that are hard to sustain, yet their website offshoots will be hugely popular.The cuckoo in the nest provides an uncomfortable metaphor for what might just happen. Unable to carry the burden of publishing print editions with small numbers of buyers, can newspaper owners afford to go on pro viding a free service for internet readers? Several papers charge people for retrieving articles from their archives but most provide contemporaneous news free of charge.At what point do publishers decide that it is commercial suicide to carry on giving away their journalistic product?The Sun is worried about this phenomenon - known as "cannibalisation" - and is also alarmed at falling sales. Its owners, News International, carried out a survey earlier this year which suggested that 93,000 readers could "potentially" stop buying the paper. It also found that 78% of the Sun's online viewers also bought the paper.Soon after the results of that survey emerged there were reports that the Sun had decided to scale back on its online service, including the removal of its popular Page 3 site.This was denied but there has been a subtle change in recent weeks: instead of repeating its exclusive stories in full on its website it now gives only a couple of paragraphs as a sort of teaser, telling people that if they want to know more they must buy the paper.Pete Picton, the Sun's online editor, believes that the balance between what appears in print and online requires investigation. He told last month's Association of Online Publishers' annual conference: "The question of cannibalisation is worthy of a whole separate debate in our industry."Indeed, it should be the central debate. It's all very well to talk about the way in which a website enhances a paper's brand, but what happens when the brand itself is imperilled?Just as worrying is the fact that many people get their news from net sources unconnected to newspapers, especially the BBC. There are hosts of sites offering news of varying quality and integrity, including those famous solo journalists known as bloggers.Indeed, the other interesting development in response to the web's growing influence is the effect on journalists. Five years ago many would-be reporters saw the web as a way of getting into "proper" papers. Now many web journalists are content with working in online journalism and delighted to show that they can make waves with their form of instantaneous reporting.It's not surprising that the National Union of Journalists has just decided to set up a separate new media section and aims to recruit people working on the web, producing CD-Roms, running email newsletters and providing material for mobile phones.Web journalism is here to stay. It is both a challenge to newspapers and an opportunity, but getting the relationship between print and screen is so crucial, and so difficult to gauge, there will be much more of this story to tell in future.The Mail takes a chanceThe Daily Mail's full-frontal assault on the government's bid to change the gambling laws conceals a nauseating set of double standards.I reported last week that the paper, midway through its campaign against casinos, had suddenly discovered that its own website contained a link to a gambling site, jackpotjoy.com. It therefore felt it prudent to cut the link lest readers, urged to view gambling as a vice,   might think it guilty of hypocrisy.But what would its readers think were they to discover that the owners of jackpotjoy.com were given an assurance that, despite the removal of the gambling channel from the website, it might return, presumably when all the fuss created by the Mail crusade had died down.After all, the gambling link was a lucrative partnership between the Mail and the online gambling company because it generated what was described by insiders as "a significant trade" from which both partners shared the proceeds.But it appears that the Mail is go ing to renege on its assurance to jackpotjoy.com. Avril Williams, editorial director of Associated New Media, says: "Dailymail.co.uk supports the editorial position of the newspaper. We have no gambling advertising on the website and have no plan to do so."Then again, as a Mail reader pointed out, are not other Mail promotions, such as scratchcards, not a form of gambling? Indeed, what about the paper's horse racing coverage and tips? Anyone willing to bet on the response of Paul Dacre, the Daily Mail editor-in-chief, when he reads this item?Trapped by the truthThe treatment by the Israeli state of the nuclear whistleblower, Mordechai Vanunu, is unusually vindictive. After his arrest last week, I cannot but agree with Aidan White, the general secretary of the International Federation of Journalists, who commented: "It is extraordinary that a country calling itself the only democracy in the Middle East is itself guilty of this disgraceful and grotesque abuse of democracy."The guy has already spent 18 years in jail and it is absurd to imagine that   he has any more secrets to disclose, yet an Israeli police spokesman explained that Vanunu was suspected of passing classified information to "unauthorised parties" and of violating the terms of his release.Unless Vanunu is rescued from Israel, I fear he will spend the rest of his life in some sort of prison. And for what? For telling the truth.Shooting for peaceThere is more than one way to be a war reporter, and two journalists have produced a video to prove that it can be done peacefully. Jake Lynch and Annabel McGoldrick argue in News from the Holy Land that it is perfectly feasible to advocate peace while covering a war.They show how the concentration by the media on violence tends to prolong disputes rather than solve them. Too often, unless there is gore, the media do not bother to report. Journalists are also prone to ignoring context, according to Lynch and McGoldrick, and should look behind the causes of violence rather than at the violence itself.Their video has already attracted favourable comment from several reporters and academics. "It's a really excellent and extraordinary achievement," says Professor Greg Philo of Glasgow university's media group.
When viewers in Sky's 7.4m households think of interactive TV the first thing that springs to mind is probably choosing a Champions League game to watch, playing along with Millionaire or voting on X Factor. But while hugely popular and increasingly welcomed by viewers and programme makers, these extras make relatively little cash.It is the other, commercial side of the red button, the Sky Active portal, that brings in increasingly important revenues through gaming, betting, dating and communities. "From a revenue point of view, the biggest part of our business is the creation of these 24/7 destinations behind the interactive button," explains Ian Shepherd, the managing director of Sky Interactive.But these services have in the past been derided by viewers as little more than teletext on steroids. While they may press the interactive button out of curiosity every once in a while, they rarely come back with the sort of regularity required to make serious money.In the last quarter, Sky made &#163;81m from its Sky Active services, almost three-quarters of which came from betting, and the plan is to grow that further. As chief executive James Murdoch continues to grapple with slowing subscriber growth, wringing more money out of existing subscribers becomes ever more important. On the interactive side, this means getting users to come back with greater regularity. To that end, Shepherd has had 60 staff working for the last seven months on a radical relaunch of Sky Active.Soon, Sky viewers who navigate through to Sky Active will see the usual text-based menu replaced by something that more obviously blurs the lines between a television channel and an online service. "What you're doing here is creating a publication, in just the same way as if you're creating a TV channel, a magazine or a newspaper. You want to attract people in, get them to spend some time there and come back," says Shepherd.Audience research showed that the heaviest users of Sky Active were women at home during the afternoon and male users late at night: "It's very big in daytime with a large mass market audience who are looking for 20 minutes of entertainment. During primetime, interactivity shrinks and then we have a big peak after 11 with a more male skew and the usage changes towards the betting and dating."As such, the editorial focus of the relaunch is on those two groups. And in daytime, Sky Active isn't only competing with other interactive services. "They could read Take a Break, they   could ring their friend for a chat, they could go and make a cup of tea," says Shepherd, who was appointed managing director of the Sky Interactive division in September last year.As such, the plan is grab the attention with light, snappy video content. "The analogy we've used throughout is that we're creating a magazine, but video-led. It's showcasing stories that are designed to be of interest to the people who are viewing. It's editorial rich, a mix of entertainment from Sky News and original content," he says.The idea obviously is to use editorial content to snare viewers and introduce them to interactive features that they wouldn't otherwise see. So Ben Elton is taken back to his old school to talk about his schoolyard jokes, accompanied by a link to Friends Reunited. Dom Joly also talks about ringtones he hates, alongside a button that links you through to ringtone sales.Once they navigate through to the "contents page", they will be confronted with 16 video screens highlighting the various interactive channels. "Two years ago, people would have been horrified to see 16 screens. They'd have to go and lie down," says Shepherd.But now, conditioned to multiscreen sports and news coverage, viewers are used to navigating via multiple screens, says Shepherd. Switching to a combination of video and interactive elements also boosts the speed, he promises. "We've taken the strain off the set-top box by adding this gloss which comes through the broadcast stream."The journey to the new version of Sky Active has been a painful one which has taken five years and hundreds of millions of pounds. The company's first attempt at an interactive portal, Open, was a clunky attempt at a televisual department store. With banking from HSBC, shopping from Argos and Woolworth and pizzas from Dominos, it was a laudable but ultimately doomed attempt to convince viewers that they would never need to abandon their armchair for the high street again.Retailers deserted the platform in droves, Sky bought out its joint venture partners in 2001 and set about creating the current version of Sky Active. Less technologically ambitious but more user friendly, it has boosted interactive revenues principally through pay-per-play games, betting and ringtone sales.Now, says Shepherd, the challenge is to make another leap that will inspire other broadcasters to do likewise. "At the moment, from a customer's point of view it looks soulless, it's like having a magazine full of ads. We wanted to do something that shows the industry the way forward."
They are a dedicated elite, paid to kill each other on screen. Young professional cyberathletes, who spend eight hours a day sitting in front of a computer honing their skills, are increasingly courted by big business and compete for prizes worth thousands of pounds.The underground world of gamers will be opened up this week as Britain's top professional team offers teenagers in bedrooms nationwide the chance to compete in the first global gaming tournament.Four-Kings, a gaming "clan" which sends its team of 12 professionals worldwide, is holding online qualifiers for Painkiller, a one-versus-one shoot 'em up-style game which will form the centrepiece of a &#163;550,000 global tour next year.Uniquely, Four-Kings has made its qualifiers, which begin tomorrow, open to ordinary gamers over the internet."We are the biggest team in the UK, we've got a big fanbase and we wanted to give something back to the community," said Ben Woodward of Four-Kings, which was founded in Swansea seven years ago by Toby Aldridge, who was then 15.Nearly 150 gamers have entered themselves for the qualifying competition in the race to become members of Four-Kings.It is an attractive proposition for many. The team, which employs 12 full-time gamers and eight administrative staff, is sponsored by Intel and other hi-tech companies. Five of its gaming professionals are competing in Sweden, while six are in South Korea, the centre of professional gaming where 15 million young people are registered to play online."You walk down the street in Korea and get mobbed," said Mr Aldridge, 22. "Kids have posters of their favourite players on the wall. It's one of their biggest sports."Young, male and paid to play their passion, the top gamers increasingly resemble professional footballers. The elite, aged between 17 and 25, enjoy a glamorous lifestyle and travel the world, but must also dedicate their lives to practice.While there are barely two dozen professionals in the UK, around 100 South Koreans make their living as gamers. Some claim to earn in excess of $100,000 (&#163;55,000) a year in prizes and sponsorship, helped by three cable TV stations dedicated to showing tournament gaming, and online games such as Lineage, which have millions of subscribers.For gamers, their adrenaline-fuelled craft is undoubtedly a sport. "You don't need to be a physical athlete but you need excellent hand-eye coordination, reflexes and mental stamina," said Mr Aldridge. "In War Craft 3, the typical tournament players will make 400 actions a minute - more than six moves per second - for 30 minutes. It is as mentally draining as any sport."The best eight players in Four-Kings' online qualifiers will go forward to its Bloodline Tournament, held in London in December.Watched by hundreds of enthusiasts, with more spectators following the action over the internet, the two players who get the most "kills" in Painkiller's 15-minute rounds will represent Four-Kings in next year's world tour.The 10-date tour, organised by the Cyberathlete Professional League, will pit British gamers against the best players in the world. The first tournament will be held in Turkey in February, with $50,000 in prize money. The games will culminate in a grand final, in December next year, where the winner will pocket $150,000."We will host 10 main events in nine different cities across the globe," says CPL's founder, Angel Munoz, a former stockbroker who set up the league in 1997."We also will host smaller competitions that offer free travel to the main tournaments in another 40 countries. We expect over 10,000 gamers to participate in the world tour's primary stops and qualifiers," he added.The CPL has made its world tour more spectator-friendly by picking Painkiller as the competition game. Because it is a one-against-one game, it is easy for audiences to follow.Mr Woodward, 21, said: "A few players are no-nonsense aggressive players. They won't play any mind-games, they just go after the other bloke and try to kill him. The others will try mind-games."The best players I've seen are pretty aggressive."Big business is starting to take notice. Some players and teams have their own agents, while companies including MTV, leading clothes brands, mobile telephone companies and soft drinks manufacturers are in talks with the CPL about potential sponsorship deals.There is a darker side to professional gaming, however. Some online games have given rise to "factories" where teams of workers play to build up virtual goods - such as in-game currency - which they then sell on to players.Unlike their competitive equivalents, these professionals earn cash not by winning matches, but by selling in-game bonuses for real-world money. While many traders work legitimately in the "unreal estate" market, less scrupulous operators run what have been described as digital sweatshops."There are even rumours of internet cafes in the former Russian republics where you pay for your time on the net by earning money for the cafe owner," says Julian Dibbell, an author and former professional dealer from South Bend, Indiana.Such trading can be hugely profitable and although sweatshops are a smear on gaming's record, some say that such profitability is further evidence that the hobby is reaching the mainstream.Competition organisers are convinced that with its burgeoning - and youthful - fanbase, gaming could eventually rival the profile of sports such as motor racing and golf. The World Cyber Games, one of the main events, attracted nearly 600 competitors vying for $400,000 in prize money when it was held in San Francisco last month.Several thousand fans turned up to watch a recent competition on giant plasma screens, where gamers played Counter Strike, a counter-terrorism contest, which was also watched online by 130,000 spectators from around the world.
Shoppers crave it for Christmas with a near religious fervour, but now those who revere Apple's iPod music player will be able to worship their icon at a high-street temple. Europe's first flagship Apple Store is about to open in Britain.Like the ultra-fashionable iPod, which unusually is the must-have gift for a second Christmas running, Apple Stores are as well known for their style and cult status as their contents.Incorporating the brand's distinctive clean lines and silver-and-white in their minimalist interior design, the stores typically feature all-glass staircases and large skylights, studios and theatres and a 'Genius Bar' where customers are served solutions to Apple-related technical headaches.The Apple Store in New York has become one of Manhattan's top attractions. The grand opening of the Tokyo store earlier this year saw a queue stretch more than two miles. In San Francisco fans sneaked on to the construction site to snatch a first look at the sleek design. When the store did open, about 1,200 were in the line and nearly 6,000 more passed through on the first day, with the first shopper having queued for some 37 hours.On Saturday it is London's turn. Diehard enthusiasts are expected to start queuing from Friday night, armed with sleeping bags and possibly iPods, in readiness for the 10am opening on Regent Street in the West End. The first 300 people inside will be able to buy 'lucky bags' for &#163;249 that contain mystery merchandise worth &#163;705. The first 2,500 visitors will each get a 'commemorative T-shirt' - not to be sneezed at in the deadly serious world of Apple iconography. The venue will host a live performance by New Zealand band Steriogram the following day.The 20,000 sq ft store is effectively being let by the Queen. Earlier this year Apple agreed to   rent it from the Crown Estate, the holding company for the monarch's property assets, for a reported &#163;1.5 million a year. It will sell Apple's entire product line including the full range of iPods, Apple Notebooks and desktop computers as well as digital cameras and camcorders.The Apple UK website boasts of a 14-metre-long Genius Bar, multilingual staff, hands-on training and a 64-seat theatre hosting free workshops and presentations. It adds: 'Talk to our staff of Creatives at The Studio, where your ideas and our help come together to enhance your Mac projects.'The US-based ifoapplestore, an entire fan website dedicated to Apple Stores which gets 1.5 million hits a month, has been following events on Regent Street avidly, offering regular updates on movements of plywood and the weather forecast for 20 November.Simon Dyson, a senior analyst at Informa Media, said: 'The store will be a success and I imagine people will be queuing round the block. Sales of iPods are going through the roof: global shipments in the last quarter were up from 860,000 to in excess of 2 million, which is almost unheard of in the quarter before Christmas. It will probably break 3 million in the final quarter of this year. The iPod is the must-have product and the Apple Store will become the high temple. They want to make it very different from your average computer store, which is seen as a bit nerdy. They want to keep a cool image and that approach pays off for them.'Apple's thrust into the high street is likely to draw iPod shoppers, but other retailers refused to be panicked. Dan Knowles, the director of buying electricals and home technology at John Lewis, said: 'Our view is it will grow and develop the Apple brand. When NikeTown opened in central London, sales of Nike products at John Lewis went up. I'm convinced sales of Apple products will grow for us as a consequence of the Apple Store coming to the high street.'
