At the pace of an elderly country solicitor poring over a 17th-century title deed, the government is turning electronic conveyancing into reality.E-conveyancing is a key element of the government's ambition to take some of the agony out of buying a property in England and Wales, where more than a quarter of house sales fall through after terms have been agreed.It also has the distinction of being the first e-government service to be announced in a Queen's speech. In 2001, Her Majesty announced the government's plans to introduce enabling legislation: the resulting Land Registry Act 2002 comes into force in October.Now all that remains is to design a system, hire a contractor to supply the technology and persuade solicitors and other parties to use it.If the results of a major consultation are anything to go by, all will be difficult. While solicitors are mainly in favour of e-conveyancing, and members of the public overwhelmingly so, fundamental practical issues still have to be resolved.The land registry, the government department that maintains the land register for England and Wales, published the results of the consultation into e-conveyancing last month. It found that 84% of the public "signalled strong support" for its proposals.Among professionals there was "general agreement that the land registry's proposals were a good starting point". But many respondents had reservations that may be difficult to dismiss as   professional turf-guarding.Solicitors were particularly alarmed by one proposal: that they sign e-documents on behalf of clients. "The main concerns highlighted are fraud, the risk of misunderstanding between conveyancer and client, and dealing with unusual ways of executing documents," the land registry commented.Ken Byass, chair of the Law Society's electronic law committee, describes a basic component of the proposal as "wholly wrong". This is the idea that, in the interest of efficiency, the property register will be changed by electronic message from outside parties. "We're worried stiff that people will impersonate solicitors and change the register externally," Byass said. "If that happens, who is going to carry the can?"His alternative is to introduce electronic filing rather than electronic registration. In case of fraud or error, changes would be easily reversible.Byass also says that standard electronic conveyancing may be fine when selling a new semi, but not for a complex commercial contract of 100 pages or more.Finally, there is a practical problem of plugging solicitors around the country into the new system. According to the land registry, solicitors also had "strong views" about making the system compulsory. "Some respondents were prepared to say 'yes' to early complulsion, but most wanted to wait as they would only be prepared to sign up to the system when convinced of the system's capability, user friendliness and reliability. Concerns were raised that unless the system was made compulsory, conveyancers would not use it."The registry said it aims to produce a further report by the end of the year, which would "finalise the design and kick off the procurement process".It could start by looking overseas. Several Canadian provinces have already introduced elements of e-conveyancing. British Columbia, for example, has announced plans to create secure electronic conveyancing forms, with e-signing and authentication.John Geddes, vice president of business development at IT firm MacDonald Dettwiler, says that the UK could learn much from the Canadians. Not surprisingly, his firm already has an interest: it runs the national land information service (NLIS), an electronic clearing house for land and property data in England and Wales designed by the local government improvement and development agency. Local authorities can sign up to NLIS to do property searches electronically, but so far only half of the 375 eligible councils have done so.NLIS already has the potential to underpin another government measure to make property buying less painful with the proposed seller's pack. He says it should also support whatever e-conveyancing system the land registry produces.His advice to the British government is to tackle e-conveyancing electronically, and not to re-invent any e-commerce procedures. "We should be in pace with industry, but not leading it."
Today's IT professionals are beleaguered. Having survived the traumas of the dotcom era, they now face a new threat: the erosion of the high-level IT job market in the UK. Under pressure from industry on one hand and the IT workforce on the other, the government has vacillated, with dangerous consequences.The government's campaign to build a robust high-skill, high-wage economy in the UK has to compete with the increased technical feasibility and commercial attractiveness of offshore outsourcing. To secure a strong footing for IT-enabled growth and employment in the UK, the government has rightly been concerned to help build trade in global markets and ensure that there are sufficient numbers of people with high-grade IT skills available to industry.However, government policies have not shown equal commitment to safeguarding the jobs of IT professionals in the UK. According to e-Skills UK, there are 46,000 fewer people working in IT than last year and 56,000 IT staff are "unemployed/actively looking for work". Demand for permanent and contract IT staff continues to fall and salaries have declined. What do these trends mean for the future of industrial competitiveness and IT work in the UK?Concern about the effects of IT outsourcing on UK employment has been around for some time. Early fears were calmed by the belief that rivalry would be restricted to low-value jobs that are unlikely to offer sustainable employment or underpin a thriving economy. Now, however, it is becoming clear that international outsourcing also threatens to destroy high-value IT jobs in the UK. Government policies, inadvertently,   may have helped their demise.Imagine a pyramid symbolising the IT workforce in the UK. The base of this pyramid is crumbling away in the heat of battle for low-value mass-employment IT-related jobs, like data entry work. The once polished tip is showing signs of tarnish as highly skilled IT contractors, affected by recent changes to their tax status, fail to invest in enough training to maintain the value of their labour. And the core of the pyramid is disintegrating. It began to wear away when the work permit system, used to control the flow of IT professionals, reduced industry incentives to retain experienced IT staff and recruit new talent.But further damage is probable. It has been assumed that high-value IT jobs are immune to offshore outsourcing because of their complexity. Recent research suggests, however, that the permit system may have helped UK firms shift progressively higher-value work overseas.The government's challenge is to restore this pyramid and honour promises of high and stable levels of growth and employment. But wavering policies have transformed the restoration process into a Sisyphean task. In 2000, influenced largely by employers, the government introduced the "fast track" visa system to help employ people overseas quickly if they had skills considered scarce in the UK.Then, last year, amid protests that jobs were being harmed by foreign competition, the government suspended the system and tightened up the intra-company transfer scheme to stop firms siphoning cheap foreign labour through their doors. Now, Gordon Brown is laying out priorities for a move away from protectionism towards free trade in open markets   and more flexibility in employment.How, then, might a more consistent course be charted that matches a commitment to cement industrial competitiveness in global markets with a defence of national assets? One short-term solution would be to ensure that policies on migration are based on a thorough understanding of the IT jobs market and keep in step with advances in technology and corporate strategy. At the same time, industry focus on the allure of offshore outsourcing needs to be tempered by evidence of the real cost of relocating high-value IT work.Another response might be to tie global trade in IT to the creation of good IT jobs in the UK by balancing encouragement for trade with incentives that motivate local firms to recruit, retain and re-train IT professionals. In turn, industry could help keep the talent pipeline open by nurturing partnerships with educational institutions. But these ideas will fail to secure a future for the IT skills base in the UK unless IT professionals are also prepared to negotiate a competitive price for their labour.Driving forward these proposals for growth would require the government to work closely with industry, employees and their unions. But forging trusted relationships between these stakeholders and uniting them in pursuit of prosperity for all is unlikely to be easy. It will be a particularly neat trick to pull off while industry has vested interests in acquiring cheap labour and the IT workforce is pressing the government to protect their jobs.&#183;Dr Jane Millar is a senior research fellow, digital society programme, Institute for Public Policy Research
Meet the latest digital radio from PURE Digital: a shiny handheld device, no larger than a pack of cards and perhaps slightly lighter, which promises to bring you digital audio choice and clarity on the move.At least that's the billing, but Online's trials this week have seen the performance fall some way short of expectations.The device is simple to use, with a joystick and four buttons as controls. The screen is bright and clear, and it certainly is light. But the key feature - the quality of the sound - is a disappointment.Walking around central London it was near impossible to get a steady signal - vital, given that in the digital radio world, something either works or it doesn't.It sounded great while hooked up to the hi-fi at home: but that's hardly the point with such an ultra-portable device. On this evidence, anyone looking to buy a digital portable radio should try before buying - even if you think you're in an area with a strong digital signal. On sale in May - &#163;169.99
GadgetsRival to the iPodPhilips has become the first mainstream consumer electronics manufacturer to announce it is to take on Apple, Creative Labs and Archos in the hard disk MP3 personal player market. It is currently beta-testing the   HDD100, a 15GB player, with a view to launch in early summer.Finished in glossy magnesium and hardened glass, the HDD100 is smaller than the iPod and its rivals. The unit plays back Windows Media Audio (WMA) files as well as MP3s, offers direct recording, so it can be used as a dictation machine, and comes with a USB 2.0 socket for quick transfer of tracks to and from a PC. The player's on-screen interface, which is uncannily reminiscent of the iPod, is controlled by a scrolling system.Prices have yet to be fixed, but the HDD100 is expected to retail for around &#163;350.&lt;A HREF="http://www.philips.co.uk"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.philips.co.ukWi-Fi fuss-freeBrighthand has developed a neat way of adding Wi-Fi (802.11b) connectivity to your Palm PDA. It has unveiled a leather carrying-case that features an integrated Wi-Fi chip. The $170 WP802b connects to the Palm via its Hot Sync port to deliver data transfer at Ethernet speeds across up to 100 feet indoors.As the WP802B sports its own rechargeable battery, it won't drain power from the Palm handheld. The product is expected to be available within the next three months.&lt;A HREF="http://www.brighthand.com"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.brighthand.comInternetBrowsers welcomeApple and Opera have both announced new versions of their web browsers this week. Apple has released Safari Beta 2, free to download from its website. Safari offers a substantially faster browsing experience than Internet Explorer for the Mac, and now sports tabbed browsing and tighter integration with the Mac OS X address book.Opera, meanwhile, has released new versions of its speedy browser: Opera 7.10 for Windows and Opera 7.10 for Linux Beta. They sport features which, says Opera, are entirely new to the web browser world. These include FastForward and Rewind buttons in the toolbar, which the company says will speed up browsing, and a Notes feature that allows you to associate notes with a particular web page. A full version of Opera, for Windows or Linux, costs $39 (for the ad-free version) - the beta is a free download.&lt;A HREF="http://www.apple.com/safari"www.opera.com" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.apple.com/safariwww.opera.comGamingXbox slashedMicrosoft last week cut the price of its Xbox games console to "an estimated street price" of &#163;129.99 in the UK. This is very low for a console that includes a hard drive.Microsoft's Home and Entertainment division, which includes the Xbox and Microsoft's TV platform, made an   operating loss of $348m in its last quarter. Traditionally, console manufacturers sell the hardware at or even below cost and make the money back on high-priced games. Microsoft is also hoping to make money on subscriptions to its broadband gaming service, Xbox Live, launched last month.PS2 rejiggedSony has revised the design of the market-leading PlayStation 2 games console for the Japanese market. The new version provides improvements in DVD playing, and is quieter, due to the improved cooling system. Sony has also removed the iLink (Firewire) communications port, due to lack of use. The new PS2 will be available in Japan from May 15 at 25,000 yen (&#163;132).Sony has not said whether it will be available in Europe or the US, but an announcement can be expected at the E3 games trade show, which opens in Las Vegas on May 13.VideoGood definitionThe world's first consumer-oriented digital camcorder that records and plays back high-definition images is on its way to the UK. JVC has announced that its GR-HD1 (to be known in the UK as the GY-HD10), which was launched in Japan in March, will be available here later in the year.The bulky, yet massively specified, camcorder features a new 1/3 inch 1.18 megapixel progressive scan CCD, which records images of 720 lines on to   a mini DV cassette. Using an external converter, the video can be converted to high-definition standard.Other features include an optical 10x zoom lens, an integrated image stabiliser and the option of storing still images on a Secure Digital (SD) card.As there are no high definition tube-based TV sets available in the UK, British users will only be able to see an increase in image resolution if the camcorder is connected to a Plasma or LCD screen or a projector.&lt;A HREF="http://www.jvc.co.uk"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.jvc.co.ukPrivacyStupid awardsCampaign group Privacy International has given T-Mobile and Heathrow airport awards for over-the-top security. The German mobile network won the Most Annoyingly Stupid award for requiring buyers of pay-as-you-use mobiles to send two credit card bills before allowing credit card top-ups of more than &#163;30 in 30 days. This exceeds the proof of identity required by some banks for opening internet-based accounts.Heathrow won a runner-up award for confiscating a box of gunpowder tea - a variety of green tea - from a boarding passenger.Only the box was taken: guards returned the tea, which gets its name from its resemblance to pellets of lead shot, in a plastic bag.www.privacyinternational.org/activities/stupidsecurity
Picture thisFor anyone used to doing things at internet speed, it has taken an amazingly long time. But this week, the UK's mobile phone companies finally announced they have worked out how to allow users of their picture phones to share their images with users of other networks.Previously, a Vodafone user who wanted to share an image with an Orange customer, for instance, had to send their image via email or make it available on a specially created website. Now the image can go direct from picture phone to picture phone - a move that is likely to lead to an explosion in the popularity of picture messaging this summer.3 extends offer3G phone network 3 has made possibly the least unexpected announcement in the mobile phone world, by confirming it is to extend its special introductory offer on the price of its handsets. Those tempted to try video calling and 3's other features can buy an NEC e606 for half-price (&#163;200) until the end of May. The initial deal was supposed to have run out at the end of last month. There is, however, still no sign of any other 3 handsets. The PDA-style NEC e808 (&#163;225 until the end of May) - a chunky model with a keyboard and large screen - and Motorola A830 (&#163;125 until the end of May), which does not feature the company's hallmark video calling application, won't reach stores until the end of the month.&lt;A HREF="http://www.three.co.uk"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.three.co.ukSounds greatMotorola is billing its forthcoming mobile phone, the E390, as the first mobile to offer its owners surround sound.The handset features stereo speakers and the company's 3D polyphonic system. The two combine to deliver ringtones or music - from the integrated FM radio or MP3 player accessory - in what the company calls three-dimensional sound.The triband mobile (which means that it's also good for use in North America) is also one of the company's first to feature an integrated camera.Other facilities include speech recognition, Bluetooth and downloadable games and ringtones. The E390 is expected in the UK in early summer.&lt;A HREF="http://www.motorola.com/uk"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.motorola.com/uk
Most of us presume that doctor knows best, so when they smile benevolently and say, "Take three a day. It's the newest treatment so it must be wonderful", or, "It's the most time-honoured treatment, it must be superb", we swallow the pill. We rarely ask doctors how they can be so sure that what they're offering will help - not harm - us.Much of Sir Iain Chalmers' professional life has been devoted to just this question, and to ensuring that we are likely to get treatments that will do us good. As he says, "Right now, the NHS is determining what treatments we will be allowed, but do we know what criteria they are using to decide? Testing treatment must be fair, but some trials end up concluding that useless or even harmful things are good, or that useful ones are useless."Chalmers is currently running theJames Lind Library, a website where we can find out how decisions are made about what treatments work. It explains the idea of "fair tests" and illustrates how these have evolved.Named after the 18th-century naval doctor who proved that citrus fruit cured scurvy, Chalmers explains: "In 1747 Lind was at sea with a bunch of sick sailors. He wanted to test various treatments and took 12 ill men, gathered them in the same bit of the ship and fed them the same diet. The only major difference was what he treated them with."Lind compared the effects of cider with tonics of sulphuric acid vinegar, seawater, nutmeg or two oranges and a lemon. Within six days, one of the sailors given fruit returned to normal duty, while the other was so well he got the job of nursing the rest. Lind concluded that the fruit had worked, and the admiralty eventually insisted that lemon juice be given to all sailors.Chalmers says: "Lind's experiment progressed many areas of medicine, from understanding more about vitamins to public health and the organisation of trials - hence my wish to celebrate him in the name of this multinational venture."The website contains a host of beautiful reproductions from original works, including Lind's 1753 Treatise of the Scurvy, and facsimiles of the 1969 report suggesting that thalidomide caused limb deformities and the 1974 study which showed that aspirin averted heart attacks.There is also information about how trials should be conducted. The many stages of "fair tests" include deciding what questions need to be asked and minimising effects of chance and bias. Chance can largely be avoided by testing treatments on enough people: a new drug that helps 500 out of 700 people is more convincing than if it helps five out of seven. But abolishing bias is trickier.Chalmers says: "Bias takes many forms. Researchers might report only what shows the drug they're testing in a good light, or publish positive results in an English journal and bury negative findings in a foreign language paper. Then there are studies where new treatments are tested on relatively well people, the old ones on an iller group. Sounds incredible, but it happens."Chalmers also points out that registration of trials is not legally required. "Results can be ignored. Some trials are publicly registered when they begin, but most aren't. The bad stuff can just go in the bin. Patients who agree to trials assume they're contributing to a knowledge base, but this behaviour leads to biased, imprecise estimates of treatment effects, can harm us all and is scientific as well as ethical misconduct."Strong stuff from a man who was knighted for services to medicine, but Chalmers has his reasons for being so forthright. "My motivation comes from making some really bad mistakes as a doctor, or doing what I was told because someone thought it worked, and harming patients in the process." Chalmers gave up clinical medicine after "seven pretty uneasy years" mainly in obstetrics and paediatrics and he is passionate about helping patients to make informed choice based on the evidence of what works.He recalls his early days as a paediatrician. "I bought Dr Spock's book in 1965, which said put babies to sleep on their fronts. I promulgated its message. But Spock had got it shatteringly wrong, basing his advice on theory not practice, and babies died as a result."Jan Vandenbroucke, professor of clinical epidemiology from Leiden University in the Netherlands, is one of Chalmers' three co-editors of the library. In Chalmers' Oxford office, their loving, almost parental glances switch between the computer screen where the library winks away, and a pile of 18th-century books including Lind's Treatise in English and French. Vandenbroucke fears that people may not realise how much these books can bring to understanding 21st century medical care."It's really important because it shows how we got to the present organisation of healthcare. It shows that current methods to decide whether treatments work are part of a centuries-old continuum. We hope people will learn humility from it, openness of thought.The library owes its existence to the Royal College of Physicians in Edinburgh, which has one of the world's best collections of historical documents of this kind. He says: "We want the library to contain information which people wouldn't see, and show them how testing has evolved."The library's future thus lies in the past, as such material is gradually incorporated. But Chalmers says there is one area where he hopes breakthroughs will force them to widen its scope. "Sometimes a new treatment is hyped before it's tested, so people have really high expectations. This must affect trial outcomes, but how do you measure it? When someone cracks this, we'll cover it as part of trial evolution."As the library develops (comments are invited) it will not shirk from the dark side of experimentation. Chalmers says: "A section will look at atrocities in the middle ages where prisoners were poisoned to see if the antidote worked, and the appalling abuses during the second world war in Nazi-occupied Europe and Japanese-occupied China. One way to honour those who suffered and died is to ensure that their data are not lost, or kept secret as has been done by American authorities."The library is dedicated to patients and professionals who have helped to generate reliable evidence. Chalmers believes that making such work better known will empower us to ask the right questions about treatment that we are offered, rather than trotting off like lambs to the chemist with a prescription for whatever it says on the coffee mug that the drug company gave the doctor.
Switchhas published an interview with Doug Engelbart, who set computing on its current course by demonstrating hyperlinks and a mouse-operated windowing computer system -- in 1968. [Thanks toSlashdotfor the link.]
The Kinko's chain is doing a Starbucks, according to802.11 Planet.
IBM, the world's biggest computer company, lifted its quarterly sales from $18 billion to $20.1 billion, but profits of $1.38 billion narrowly missed Wall Street forecasts, reportsAP. Revenues were boosted by IBM's latest acquisitions, including Rational Software and the consulting arm of PricewaterhouseCoopers.
Hewlett-Packard, Intel and Cisco top the list, while companies like TiVo scrape in at the bottom....here.
Last week saw the annual Smart Show at the NEC in Birmingham, one of the key events in the consumer electronics journalist's calendar.Here, the nation's gadget hacks jostle with the country's dealers and manufacturers to discover what are likely to be the must-have electronic items later in the year.However, one suspects that, for most of the dealers attending the show, the most pressing issue was deciding how to fill the shelf space in their stores that was once occupied by VHS video recorders.Sales of video tape recorders are plummeting, and dealers are keen to know exactly what the consumer will buy to record their programmes on. Sadly, they probably left the Smart Show even more confused about that than they were when they arrived.The truth is that there are now so many potential replacements for the VCR that no one in the consumer electronics industry is quite sure which one to back. The two leading contenders are recordable DVD and hard disc based recording systems. Both have been on sale for well over a year, and both are showing a gradual upward swing in sales.Yet neither solution is entirely satisfactory and, to make matters even more confusing, both systems are available in a number of different guises and formats.The fundamental problem with DVD recorders is that, unless the user opts for a pricey double-sided disc, they can only archive around two hours' worth of quality video on one DVD: small beer when compared with the long recording times offered by VHS.Consumers are also confused by the fact that there are three competing DVD disc formats (Philips' DVD+RW, Pioneer's DVD-RW and DVD-RAM, backed by Panasonic, JVC, 
Hitachi and several other companies). The rewritable discs for each format are not universally compatible with DVD players and DVD-ROM drives in PCs. However, there are now write-once discs on sale that will play back in most DVD drives/players.Forgetting about optical disc-based storage systems and opting for PC-like hard discs would, then, seem like a good alternative. Yet hard disc recorders also have only a limited amount of storage space (so far, the average is 40 gigabytes, or around 40 hours of quality video). That means keeping a programme permanently is not really an option.Confusingly, hard disc video recorders are available in a number of forms, from standalone products (such as the original TiVo) to units with integrated TV decoders, as touted by Pace and Humax.In what seems like a very clever move, Toshiba used the Smart Show to debut the 
RD-XS30, which offers the best of both worlds, combining a DVD-RAM recorder with a sizeable 60 gigabyte hard disk. Toshiba believes that users will record programmes such as soap operas and football matches on the hard disk, and archive anything they want to keep permanently by transferring it to DVD.However, at £700, a fairly competitive price given the complexity of the product, the RD-XS30 is still way out of the price league of consumers who simply want to replace their VCR with something digital.To complicate matters further, several companies are hoping that the solution might be to integrate hard disc recorders within TVs or screens (Philips is to debut a high-end widescreen TV with integrated hard disc recorder later this year).Building a hard disc within a TV certainly makes sense, because it could be used to store all sorts of other things including image and music files and advanced programming software. From a punter's perspective, it is one box less under the TV set too.If TVs with integrated hard discs become the norm, there is still a strong case for using a DVD recorder for archiving. But which type? Far away from Birmingham, in Tokyo, Sony chose Monday to parade its latest DVD recorder. The model uses a new kind of optical disc, dubbed a Blu-ray. Designed to be used for the archiving of high-definition TV transmissions, Blu-ray discs have a storage capacity of 27 gigabytes: enough for 16 hours of DVD -quality video. With that kind of storage, would someone need a hard disk recorder anyway?While Sony stresses that it does not yet have any plans to bring Blu-ray to the UK, some industry insiders are predicting that the company is bluffing, and that a recorder could be on sale by Christmas.So, there are four different DVD recording formats, hard disc recorders in digital decoders, in combinations with DVD recorders and shoehorned into TVs. Oh, and did I mention that one of the key features of Microsoft's living room-friendly PC (Media Center) is its video recording software and sizeable hard disk?It's no wonder dealers are a little confused about what to stock and, if they are confused, what about the customers? As one dealer told me: "Bring back VHS and Betamax. At least you knew where you were with just two competing formats."
"Do not believe the lies of the PC infidels. The PC chips have not reached 3GHz. It is Apple that is at 3GHz. Our initial assessment is that the PC is still at 250MHz, and we will slaughter Microsoft in the server market and in the home. Our market share is at 90%." There's more atArs Tecchnica.
WeLoveTheIraqiInformationMinister.comis online and working fine after taking a time-out on Friday. "The group's contract with its Web host called for a limit of 2,000 hits a month — but the site was getting 4,000 per second, putting other businesses sharing that host in jeopardy. The group looked for more powerful servers and decided to shut down after crashing four," according toAP.
According to a Wall Street Journal story, Vivendi -- which is apparently thinking of selling its music business to Apple -- also approached Microsoft. However, this wasn't so much of a takeover, more an effort to get them to bankroll a "management-led buyout", reportsReuters. "The Journal said people close to Jobs insisted he was only interested in accessing music for Apple's new service, not in buying a record company," says the report. People who pay for a Wall Street Journal sub can find the story, Vivendi Music Unit's Attempt To Sell Itself Has Fallen Flat,here.
Intel unveiled a 3GHz Pentium 4 today along with a chip set that increases the bus speed to 800MHz, reports theMercury News. A lot of PC manufacturers were lined up to announce superfast new systems, reportsIDG News. But hold it: "shipment was halted after the company found over the weekend that a 'very small number' of the new Pentium 4 chips ... may not have been performing as expected", addsReuters. On the good side, the new P4/chipset combo turns in a scorching performance andThe Inquirerreviewer says its the fastest [x86] system on the planet.
Ooh. There's anew versionof Safari, Apple's web browser, available to download. New features include tabbed browsing, and tighter integration with the address book.
For the 33,000 or so runners in today's London Marathon, there are two particular challenges. The first is the final six-mile haul back along the Thames Embankment. The second, however, comes afterwards: collecting the sponsorship money.The latter challenge, however, will be easier for many runners this year. Almost &#163;1 million in sponsorship money from the marathon will be collected automatically online, using dedicated individual websites provided by the electronic fundraising agency Justgiving. The idea is that sponsors make their pledges and donations using credit or debit cards, and the money is then transferred   direct by Justgiving to each runner's chosen charity.Alastair Campbell, Tony Blair's communications chief and one of this year's high-profile marathon runners, is taking advantage of the service. Hiswebsitehas already raised several thousand pounds for Leukaemia Research from an intriguing mix of sponsors, including familiar names from broadcasting and the media. Their good luck messages are posted on the website.Anne-Marie Huby, Justgiving's managing director, says Campbell is one of about 3,200 people running today who have their own sponsorship websites. One advantage she says, is the international reach of the internet: 'We receive quite a lot of overseas donations. A lot of people have friends in places like Singapore, Hong   Kong and America.'But for charities, it is the ease with which Gift Aid tax relief can be reclaimed from donations from British taxpayers that makes electronic giving particularly useful. Gift Aid increases the value of a gift by about 28 per cent and has applied since 2000 to all donations, great and small. However, it can be difficult to extract the necessary written Gift Aid declaration from taxpayers who make small individual gifts. Justgiving argues that the automated Gift Aid declaration and audit trail process more than justifies its 5 per cent transaction charge.Online giving via the internet got off to a slow start in Britain. There are signs, however, that this may be changing. Comic Relief was pleased to find that &#163;2.3m came in through web-based giving during Red Nose Day this year. Almost all of the major charities, and many smaller ones, include a 'donate now' button on their websites.Charities Aid Foundation has taken a number of initiatives to encourage online giving. Itswww.allaboutgiving.orgwebsite enables people who have signed up for the CAF Charitycard and Charity cheque schemes to make donations online from their own individual charity accounts held with CAF.   Currently about 18,500 people use this facility, and &#163;5.4m has been donated via the website.CAF's latest venture, thewww.givenow.orgwebsite, offers a channel for making secure credit card or debit card donations to any one of the 185,000 or so registered charities in Britain. Thanks to support from a corporate sponsor, there are currently no transaction charges, so that recipient charities get the full 100 per cent of the money donated. Another advantage is that charities have the opportunity on the website to tell would-be donors about the work they do or to point them towards their own websites. Despite this, take-up to   date has only been modest: according to CAF, approximately 4,000 people use the service each month and the total donated through the GiveNow website has reached just &#163;50,000.This response confirms the view of Joe Saxton, a charity consultant with the Future Foundation, that charities have yet to grasp the full potential of website fundraising. Just using a 'donate now' button, he says, is like sending a fundraising letter which simply says 'Give us your money'.'Charities need to be so much more sophisticated with their techniques,' he maintains. He points out that charities can use their websites to explain much more clearly what they do and to build up a continuing relationship with supporters.It would be sensible for charities to nurture online donors. According to CAF, the average donation is &#163;70 viawww.allaboutgiving.org, and &#163;48 viawww.givenow.org- about six times and four times the size of a typical one-off gift.
Google is responding to The Register story (below) by looking for a way to mark press releases as such, if they aren't already, reportsAP.
Step by step instructions on how torecycle your old floppy disksinto X Wings to go with theStarship Enterpriseyou made earlier. Well, that's Sunday sorted. (Thanks to theB3ta newsletterfor the link.)
Marvin Davis, the billionaire oilman who has offered $15 billion for Vivendi Universal Entertainment, is unlikely to buy it if the Universal music division is sold off separately, according toReuters. Also, the prospective takeover sentApple shares down more than 8%to $13.20 as the stock market imagined the impact on Apple's cash pile.
The millionth item sold on eBay is on display behind a glass cabinet in the lobby of the company's headquarters, like a precious objet d'art. Inside is a slightly forlorn looking yellow plastic music box topped with Big Bird from Sesame Street. But it meant enough to someone.Since then the billionth item has been sold on eBay, the online flea market that allows users to bid for anything from baseball cards to snow globes, Star Wars toys to Ford Escorts or, proving the users are not all geeks, Prada shoes to Jill Sander jackets. The traffic on the website is so heavy that no one has any idea what the billionth item was.In Silicon Valley, a place littered with internet start-ups that flew too close to the hot Californian sun, eBay is a rare success story. The company, which has made profits almost since its launch, recently lifted its revenue forecasts for 2003 to $1.9bn (£1.2bn). It is sitting on almost $1.5bn in cash. Shares in the company are about $89, almost a 500% markup on their $18 offer price in late 1998 - something virtually unheard of amid the carnage of the internet sector.The eBay model has been widely trumpeted. It holds no stock in expensive warehouses, has no delivery costs and little need for capital expenditure. It acts instead as a trading platform for bargain hunters, collectors and sellers around the world to meet, taking a fee for every item listed and commission on every sale.EBay characterises the platform as an antidote to the sanitised malls and shopping districts in the US and Britain all selling the same products. "This has become a part of pop culture because the people who use it are interesting and they are selling interesting stuff," says chief executive Meg Whitman.A target of $3bn in annual revenues by 2005 was set at the very peak of the dotcom hubris, but the company is sticking by the forecast. "It seems more realistic now doesn't it," Ms Whitman laughs. "I mean, I think people thought we were nuts because we set that in the middle of 2000 when we did $425m in revenues. Now it seems very reasonable and we are absolutely standing by it."The company, on a campus of inconspicuous 1980s offices next to a freeway on the margins of San Jose, has many of the hallmarks of an internet operation. At least one member of staff arrives on a mechanised scooter and the only people in suits are the ones waiting for a job interview. Employees, including the senior executives, work in cubicles where computers compete for space with the frankly odd obsessions of the occupants, including one slightly maniacally, perfectly arranged set of Hot Wheels (still in their boxes) inflatable Scooby Doos or life sized cutouts of Princess Leia.Devotees of the company note there is an important difference. While management of other companies during the internet gold rush were wilfully young, the backers of eBay had the wit to hire experienced management grounded in the real business world.EBay was launched from founder and chairman, Frenchman Pierre Omidyar's bedroom in 1997. A year later Ms Whitman, now 47, was living in Boston and working at Hasbro where she was running the Mr Potato Head brand and introducing the Teletubbies to America. It took several calls from a head hunter to persuade her to take the trip but she was quickly convinced of eBay's potential. She moved her family to the west coast and by September 1998 was at the helm of the fifth most successful IPO ever."It was a huge risk," she says. "Sometimes my husband and I look back and say what were we thinking? But we loved living in California and we thought that tech would continue to play an increasing role in society and that being in the heartland of tech for us and our two boys would be positive. And we figured what's the worst that could happen? I get another job." Like many of her team she has classic marketing training. A Harvard MBA graduate, Ms Whitman worked as a brand manager at Procter &amp; Gamble, at Disney and as a Bain consultant before joining Hasbro. She still has a nice line in marketing speak, framing words in invisible inverted commas.With a 2.3% stake in the business worth about $640m on paper, she dresses in a grey sleeveless fleece that could have come from The Gap and is said to live modestly."When I met with Pierre he said two things I understood. The first was that this marketplace on the net enabled people to do something they could not do before - meaning trade goods in an open, transparent marketplace with other people 24/7 around the globe."And the other was that he told me people on eBay have made real connections - that there was this sense of community, that people had met their best friends on eBay. I realised there was this huge emotional connection. For the past 20 years I had thought that great brands were features and functionality - you know 'whiter whites' or 'cleaner cleans' - and if you can get the emotional connection then you have a huge winner on your hands."The emotional attachment is there even as the company has grown. The often prickly users have a famously love-hate relationship with the site - common complaints are rising fees, the growing preponderance of big business using the site, and the fear that it will become just another "mega mall". When management does something that users don't like, Ms Whitman will find 500 emails waiting for her the next morning. "Everyone knows how to get hold of me - my email address Meg@ebay.com is all over the message boards."EBay has 62m registered users and the website has developed in ways that the founder, who now divides his time between Paris and Las Vegas, could hardly have imagined. When the company floated, it was largely a business selling "collectibles" - Beanie Babies accounted for about 10% of revenues. Today, collectibles are rivalled by computers, electronic goods, books and CDs, and one of the fastest growing sectors is used cars - eBay estimates that about 1% of all used car sales in the US are via the website.For a management team grounded in the discipline of companies like P&amp;G and PepsiCo, the word "serendipity" is used an awful lot at eBay. It only discovered that cars were being sold on the site when a product manager looking for die-cast replicas entered "Ferrari" into the search engine. It returned two real ones."It's really different from most businesses," Ms Whitman says. "The R&amp;D lab here is our community of users and it's an undirected R&amp;D lab; they figure out how to best use this platform. The organic nature of this business is really quite stunning. We didn't sit in a room five years ago and say let's have our users get into the used car business - they did it on their own. When you think of where we've come from which was really almost 100% collectibles to 25 major categories, the diversification of the platform is remarkable and it happened organically - once we saw it happening we did some things to help it but it's largely driven by the community of users."Once the car market had been spotted, the company set up a dedicated corner of the site, improved the search function and did a deal with a car delivery firm, to help people buying between states.The trading platform has grown so significantly that the company estimates that 100,000 small businesses make their livings solely on eBay. A favourite story is the "bubble wrap lady" - an eBay user who accidentally bought too much of the packaging material and sold it online. When it sold quickly, the lightbulb flashed and she now runs a business selling bubble wrap on eBay from her home in Crawfordsville, Indiana.The latest markets developing on the site are small businesses trading things such as restaurant or medical testing equipment. EBay owns businesses or has investments in 27 countries, and revenues from overseas websites grew by 173% in the fourth quarter to $107m.Another item in the lobby pays homage to eBay's origin - a collection of Pez dispensers, the cultish plastic sweetholders topped with a cartoon character's head. It's an extensive collection including Spider Man, Snoopy and Santa. The story goes that Mr Omidyar's girlfriend was a collector and wanted a way to find others. So eBay was born in 1995. Only it isn't true, a story invented by a public relations person to make the site sound more interesting when it launched. The company is happy to let the truth be known. There seems little need for fantasy to grab the attention of investors or users any more.The CVAge47EducationEducation: Economics degree from Princeton and an MBA from HarvardCareerChief executive eBay since March 1998. Hasbro, general manager preschool from 1997-98. Chief executive of Florists Transworld Delivery from 1995-97. President of Stride Rite from 1993-95. Senior vice-president of marketing for consumer products at Walt Disney from 1989-92. At Bain &amp; Company between 1982 and 1989 and at Procter &amp; Gamble between 1979 and 1981FamilyMarried to Griffith Harsh, a professor of neurosurgery at Stanford. Two teenage sons
Slow sales of GameCube consoles have led Nintendo to trim the royalty fees that third-party games publishers pay to have their games on the platform, reportsReuters.
The multimillionaire co-founder of Sage Group, the only British software company still in the FTSE 100, announced his retirement yesterday at the age of 42.Graham Wylie has a stake worth &#163;135m in the company he helped set up as a student 22 years ago, but has pledged not to sell any shares "for the foreseeable future".He will not go short of cash. Last month Mr Wylie pocketed just over &#163;7m by selling almost 5m shares in the company.It was unclear last night how Mr Wylie intends to spend his retirement when he leaves at the end of May but he is something of a golf fan. He once spent &#163;21,000 at a charity auction in Newcastle on a golf flag signed by Tiger Woods.Sage was founded in 1981 by Mr Wylie, then a student at Newcastle University, academic Paul Muller, and local printer David Goldman.Mr Wylie, who received a CBE for services to the software industry, wrote the company's first accountancy software package and went on to become its UK managing director.Yesterday Sage's finance director, Paul Harrison, said that Mr Wylie told the board about his intention to leave several months ago. "Graham has been with the business for 22 years, which by anyone's standards is a fair stint."He will be succeeded as head of Sage's UK business by Paul Stobart who has been on the board for seven years.Mr Harrison said Mr Wylie decided "the right time" for his departure was the release of the company's trading statement yesterday. It showed that profits for the last six months will be 14% up on last year at about &#163;74m.A strong performance by its British and US businesses helped to offset a weak market in continental Europe.Sage said it expects to report revenues of &#163;282m for the six months to the end of March, up 4% on the previous year.News of Sage's strong performance, despite the turbulence in the software market, pushed its shares up 14.5p, or 12%, to 135p, making it the FTSE 100's biggest climber.
Microsoft has thrown petrol onto the console flames of war this week with the announcement that they are dropping the price of their famous black box to £129.99. This puts the Xbox price neck-and-neck with Gamecube, not to mention being £100 less than its original UK release price. It's no secret that Microsoft's console had a very merry Christmas last year and this, combined with floundering Gamecube sales, has seen the hefty Xbox nose its way in to second place in the hearts, minds and more importantly pockets, of UK gamers."We outsold some very long-established competition and enjoyed near sell-out status, gaining market share along the way," gushed a man with a title as weighty as his product: Peter Moore, corporate vice president, worldwide retail sales and marketing, home and entertainment division, Microsoft and incidentally, the former president of Sega US."This price change shows we are not content to rest on our laurels - we will continue to be aggressive in building upon this momentum throughout the year." However Nintendo are definitely not out for the count yet, and especially with the GBA-SP selling well since its release, there's still everything to play for.That's not the only big move Microsoft has been making either, reported Wired magazine this week. The company has been showing more than just a passing interest in id Software's hugely anticipated upcoming title Doom III. The original Doom game rocketed forward PC gaming back in 1993, and the series has always been considered one of the great PC bastions. Now it looks like Microsoft has been flashing their cash about in the hopes of securing an Xbox exclusive release on the third title in the prestigious trilogy.  It's unknown whether id Software have accepted or refused Microsoft's offer, but both PC and Xbox gamers worldwide are waiting with bated breath to see whether cold hard cash can triumph over a ten-year gaming legacy."Our work here is done" are the words adorning the front page of the FairPlay campaign site. Yes, we're saying farewell to the infamous campaign that grabbed headlines last year by bringing the subject of overpriced videogames into the public eye and urged gamers to show their dissatisfaction with the multi-billion dollar world-wide industry by not buying a single game for a week last December.Those behind the campaign are standing down and claiming victory for FairPlay, citing a number of events as validation, including Nintento's conviction in the European court for illegal price fixing, the drop in the price of the Gamecube and a wave of price cutting across all formats  "It's up to you, the videogame consumers, now," urges the site. "Keep refusing to buy games at the rip-off standard prices. Most new titles appear in second-hand sections within a couple of weeks of release - buy them there and save money, instead of boosting sales figures and reinforcing high prices by getting them on release day. Get together with friends and swap games, instead of pointlessly all buying copies of the same big titles."CompetitionThis week we've got 10 DVD copies of M. Night Shyamalan's psychological thriller, Signs, to give away. Along with the blockbuster film, the DVD also contains 60 minutes of making-of footage and a behind the scenes tour. To win a copy, e-mail us at Online.Competitions@guardian.co.uk with the subject line: Signs DVD. Please provide your name, address and the answer to this question.Which M Night Shyamalan featured a boy who could see ghosts?Pokemon GBA competitionDue to a rogue Pokemon in the works, those of you entering the GBA Pokemon  Sapphire competition last week may have had emailing problems. However the  competition is still open and if you want to win yourself one of three  copies of the excellent GBA Pokemon Sapphire Edition email us at  Online.Competitions@guardian.co.uk with the subject line: Pokemon Sapphire. Please provide us with your name, address and the answer to this question.Which Pokemon character likes to sing people to sleep?
There's an old computer joke about God being able to create the world in seven days because He didn't have to worry about the installed base.Nobody has had the chance to do that in computing since before computing was invented - or at least, since it was mechanical rather than electronic. The "installed base" of existing hardware and software, programmers, users and even standards, provides a context that everyone has to live with whether they like it or not.The qwerty keyboard is an obvious example of a computer standard that predates computing, but there are others. The still common 80-character screen, for example, ultimately dates back to the 80-column punch cards that Herman Hollerith used to tabulate the US census in the 1890s.The Americans who invented the first generation of electronic computers also took for granted the Roman alphabet being read from right to left, and, of course, the dollar sign.Even new inventions are often much older than people think. The mouse, for example, was demonstrated by Doug Engelbart in 1968, predating both the microprocessor and the first personal computer. The floppy disk was invented in 1950, and the first conference on artificial intelligence was held in 1956.Not only does everything have a past, the present is built on it. When Apple's software engineers sat down to create the new user interface for Mac OS X, for example, they did not start with nothing: they started with NeXT's NextStep, which was launched in 1989. And when NeXT's software engineers created the NextStep operating system, they didn't start with nothing either: they started with Unix, which dates back to the 1970s.The worldwide web is similarly built on top of the internet, which traces its roots back to Arpanet, the US government-sponsored research network, started in 1969. Many of the web's underlying ideas can be found in books written by Ted Nelson in the 1970s. Nelson also coined the term hypertext.There's nothing wrong with any of this: everything's right with it. We build on the past because it is what we have. I would argue that if you don't understand something historically, you don't understand it at all.Developing innovations is not the whole story, either. Computing is not an abstract or "pure" science: it is based on implementing practical ideas using commercial products. The ultimate test of many a computing PhD thesis is financial success.Of course, the financial rewards may not arrive quickly and they are not very likely to accrue to the innovator. Innovation has to be implemented, and it has to be delivered to the market in a form that users are able to adopt. For example, it was possible for the web's popularity to explode in 1994, when there were tens of millions of people with affordable PCs and modems. It was impossible in 1974, when those things were not commonly available.But delivering products to consumers introduces yet more problems in a wide range of areas including manufacturing, distribution, product positioning, advertising and support. In the process, countless decisions are made by large numbers of faulty human beings, and just one mistake can consign an otherwise good idea to history's wastebasket. Empires have been won or lost on anything from pure flukes to educated guesses.In this series of columns, I've explored some of the ways these things go right or wrong, and the approaches that companies use to increase their chances of success. Again, I'd argue that if you don't understand this stuff, you really don't understand the product. IT companies are not just peddling tin, or silicon. Products are neither developed nor sold in a vacuum, and they are not designed to be put on a pedestal and worshipped. They necessarily involve compromises that enable them to fit either well or badly into technical, historical, social and commercial contexts. Those "whole product" factors are just as important - and often much more important - than the specifications.While there is much more to be said, I'm sorry to say that this is the last of these Saturday perorations. I have been asked to write a different kind of column in a different space, in Thursday's Online section of the Guardian. But I'd hate to go without saying thanks for all the e-mail and the stimulating discussions it has prompted. I've learned a few things, and I hope you have too.
"Apple Computer Inc is in discussions about buying Universal Music Group, the world's largest record company, for as much as $6 billion, according to a published report Friday", reportsAP. The original story was inThe LA Times[free reg req'd].
Last year, I gave up guessing URLs and switched to the more reliable method of typing something into Google and hitting the Lucky button. It almost always works. Recently, I failed when trying to reach the site for The Sun, a British Murdoch-owned tabloid newspaper best known for publishing photos of semi-naked women on page 3. Mysecond searchwas even worse, getting The Sun on the fourth page. This is a long way from I'm Feeling Lucky. Of course, if I'd remembered that Google ignores the word "the" and put the title in inverted commas, that would have avoided the problem. Searching for"the sun"works fine.
A Harvard report on Google's optional SafeSearch (censorship) facility found that many innocuous sites were blocked for no apparent reason. It turns out that if Webmasters use a robots.txt file to stop Google's spiders from crawling parts of the site, Google excludes it from SafeSearch on the very reasonable grounds that if it can't search a site, it can't tell whether it is safe or not. Read more atCNet.
America's Digital Millennium Copyright Act strikes again, with David Rocci from Virginia getting a five-month prison sentence and a $28,500 fine, asThe Inquirerreports. It could have been worse. The DMCA allows for up to five years inside and a fine of $500,000.
Japanese electronics giant Sony has taken an extraordinary step to cash in on the war in Iraq by patenting the term "Shock and Awe" for a computer game.It is among a swarm of companies scrambling to commercially exploit the war in Iraq, which has killed more than 5,000 soldiers and civilians in the space of three weeks.MediaGuardian.co.uk has learned that Sony wants to launch a computer game called "Shock and Awe", having filed an application to register the defining phrase of the coalition's military campaign as a trademark in the US.It applied to register the term as a trademark with the US Patent and Trademark Office on March 21 - just one day after war started. It wants to use it for computer and video games, as well as a broadband game played both locally and globally via the internet among PlayStation users.The phrase, coined by former US navy pilot Harlan Ullman, was adopted by Washington to describe the fierce bombardment of Baghdad on the second night of the war - the military tactic designed to bully the Iraqi resistance into submission.However, the crassness of the phrase was seized upon by critics of evidence of US arrogance in a war that the UN, and notably France and Russia, refused to support.A spokesman for Sony PlayStation in the UK admitted the company might not stock the game in Britain and Europe owing to political sensitivities."Sometimes registering trademarks does not necessarily mean the product will be launched. But if it was deemed unsuitable then we might not ship it here," he said."If indeed it is related to the Iraqi war rather than just using that phrase then, yes, it might well be something we would be very sensitive to," the spokesman added.However, the Sony game is only the tip of the iceberg as the US market is set to be flooded with goods ranging from T-shirts, toys, board games, train sets sunglasses, mugs and fireworks branded with slogans such as "Operation Iraqi Freedom" and "Battle of Baghdad".But a British company is also planning a computer game, books, cards and magazines based on the war, called "Conflict Desert Storm II: Back to Baghdad".SCi Games, part of computer games publisher SCi Entertainment, registered the title as a trademark in the US on February 25, having scored a hit with its original PlayStation and Xbox game, Conflict: Desert Storm.Other goods planned for sale in the US include an "Axis of Evil" board game, "Iraqi Freedom" crockery and clothes as well as "Shock and Awe" trainers and dolls.After September 11 2001 terrorist attacks, the US PTO was flooded with applications for trademarks for products bearing legends such as "the war on terrorism" and "remember the twin towers".At the time applications were also been filed for products inscribed with the phrases "Osama, can you see the bombs bursting in the air?"; "Osama, Yo' Mama"; "9-11-01, lest we forget"; and "Operation Enduring Freedom".The rush to make a quick buck from the attacks attracted widespread criticism from people concerned that companies were profiting from the tragedy.
With the end of the tax year last Saturday, the Inland Revenue is sending out printed self-assessment forms to millions of taxpayers - and it looks like the vast majority will be used. By midnight on January 31, the deadline for the 2001/2 tax year, IR had collected 324,710 tax returns through the internet.This more than quadruples the previous year's figure of 76,287, but still represents just 6.5% of the 5 million Britons who complete their own tax return.Meanwhile, the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) collected 561,645 returns online by mid-December, for the year ending June 30 2002. This is more than 25% of the 2.2 million Australians who have to file a return.And this year, it intends to take e-tax even further. "Our aim is 800,000, and we are going to stress-test for 1.2 million," says Paul Gregg, director of e-tax for the ATO. Mr Gregg says they expect to get to 50% in 2004 or 2005 - a target the IR aimed for, but is unlikely to achieve.When launching its service in 2001, the IR set an initial target of 315,000 returns filed online in its first, highly publicised year of operation. It took three years to get there. It then aimed to reach 2.5 million last year, and 3.5 million this year. A spokesperson for the IR said last week that it now has no target for this year.The IR was criticised last August in a report by the House of Commons' public accounts committee (PAC) for rushing the system's introduction. "It was chaos and disaster," says Edward Leigh, Conservative MP for Gainsborough and chairman of the committee.   "They launched it too rapidly, and couldn't meet expectations." The PAC report recorded that, early on, four out of five attempts to file a return electronically failed.The ATO benefited from having a similar online system for tax accountants. Three-quarters of Australians use an accountant for their taxes, and now 95% of these returns come in electronically. A similar service was launched in the UK in 2001, after online filing for individuals.E-tax was piloted for two years in 1997 and 1998, followed by a low-profile launch. "If you go for a big bang approach, it's hard to predict what you are going to need in terms of infrastructure," says Mr Gregg. "And if you get it wrong, you may alienate hundreds of thousands of potential users."One reason Australians like the electronic system is that three-quarters of tax returns generate a refund in two weeks, compared with six weeks for those using paper forms.In its first year, the IR offered &#163;10 to online users. There is some justification for this: the PAC report said that the IR saves &#163;3 for every report filed online, and could increase this saving to &#163;30m a year, if half of its returns came in online, cutting 1,300 jobs.Edward Leigh says he is pleased that the IR increased the number of returns it has collected online since the report last August. But he thinks   it should reintroduce discounts - and make them bigger. "You've got to give people a real incentive to change the habit of a lifetime," he says.With e-tax working well, the ATO has been fine-tuning. Last year, users could claim a 'baby bonus' - the equivalent to the UK's child tax credit - with e-tax. This year, it will take less time for the software to download, and users who kept a copy of last year's completed e-tax return will be able to use it as a template for this year's.The language has been simplified, and the interface redesigned to look more like the printed tax return. Paul Gregg thinks there is probably a maximum of 1.2 million Australians who will use a software download for their taxes, so the ATO is trying other methods. "One is a simplified tax return, a short &#91;paper&#93; form. That could become electronic. We also have a pilot of telefiling &#91;over the phone&#93;, once again aimed at those with simple affairs. In the future, we are going to have e-tax for broadband   users, where rather than having a download, it would be browser-based." This last option should be available in the next couple of years.Meanwhile, the IR says it has no plans to introduce major alterations to its software. One problem is that the service has to be available constantly, as UK small businesses can choose when to end their financial year. In Australia, e-tax only has to work from July 1 to mid-December.The ATO certainly had some advantages, but in launching e-tax, it avoided the problem that dogged UK e-government services, such as the Environment Agency's flood information site, the 1901 Census or the IR's online tax system: a high-profile launch followed by capacity problems, resulting in widespread bad publicity.Australia and the UK share a liking for building something up, then knocking it down: the Australians call it tall-poppy syndrome. The ATO has grown its poppy slowly - and quietly.Tax linksAustralian Taxation Officewww.ato.gov.auInland Revenue's tax sitewww.ir-portal.gov.ukPublic accounts committee reportwww.publications.parliament.uk
PC Magazine columnist John Dvorak returned to theMac-goes-Intelidea on April 7, six days later than you might have predicted. It's a second go at theMac Switchcolumn he wrote last month, which prompted a lot of comment. Which, let's face it, is the business Dvorak is in.
Microsoft has expanded its "shared source initiative" which enables device manufacturers to change the Windows CE operating system and ship products based on their derivations, reportsReuters. But no, you are not goingto be able to reprogram your CE-based phone, till or petrol pump, and no, it doesn't make it either open source or free software.
Vote WebbiesNet users can now turn their attention to the 7th Annual Webby Awards, presented by The International Academy of Digital Arts and Sciences. The nominations have just been posted, and there's a People's Choice award in each category, so register to vote. The winners will be announced on June 5. This year, there will be two events, with IADAS announcing the 1st Annual Webby Business Awards. Nominations are open in 14 categories, and the deadline has been extended to May 30. The winners will be announced in autumn. The aim is to honour sites that "excel at achieving fundamental business goals".www.webbyawards.com/main/www.webbyawards.com/main/businessawards/SarsThe World Health Organisation has for the first time warned people about travelling to Hong Kong and Guangdong in China, though Sars (severe acute respiratory syndrome) has spread beyond those areas. The UK's Department of Health, the US government's Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the WHO all have comprehensive sites, as does the Department of Health in Hong Kong. Yahoo UK is also tracking the story.www.doh.gov.uk/sars/www.cdc.gov/ncidod/sars/www.who.int/csr/sars/en/www.info.gov.hk/dh/ap.htmhttp://uk.fc.yahoo.com/p/pneumonia.htmlBook endsPhil Jupitus loves Winnie-the-Pooh. True. The BBC's Great Britons series was such a huge success, it is having another go with a new series, The Big Read. You vote for your best-loved book on the website or by calling 09011 110 820. This will lead to a list of the Top 100 books, which will be reduced to a Top 10, and you will be able to vote for your number one. Or for a relaxing read,   you could always drop in on David Freeman's site, Relax With A Book. Freeman has been interviewing authors for The Book Show on Sky News. There are more than 600 interviews in Real Player and Windows Media formats.www.bbc.co.uk/arts/bigread/www.relaxwithabook.comFirst and bestMany children will be surprised to hear that Optimus Prime is serving with the US forces in the Middle East. Optimus Prime is, in this case, the legal name of a military fireman from Ohio, a Transformers fanatic since 1984. He has a car with an Autobot numberplate, a website about transformers and has been interviewed by Bot Collector. All he needs now is a female transformer fan who will change her name to Elita-1. "I will marry you on the spot," he says.http://optimusprime.robobase.comhttp://www.botcollector.com/ComShowCase2.htmMovie timeHe said he would be back. This time, Arnie has to take on a Terminatrix. You can download the trailer from the official Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines website (Flash required). Another sequel is also due this summer, but it will not arouse anything like as much excitement - Lara Croft Tomb Raider: The Cradle of Life. For smaller downloads, the results of the 10 Second Films competition have been announced, with the first prize going to Walking Haiku.www.terminator3.comwww.tombraidermovie.comwww.tensecondfilms.com2B from 13bOn his Baker Street blog, Brian Millar "microgloats" that he has won a D&amp;AD design award for his Powerpoint Shakespeare - a version of Hamlet executed in Microsoft Powerpoint. It was April 1, but it certainly deserves one. It was produced for the B3ta website which is running an interview with Graham Rawle of Lost Consonants fame.www.baker-street.nethttp://baker-street.net/hamlet(Powerpoint file)www.dandad.orgwww.b3ta.comwww.b3ta.com/interview/grahamrawle/New &amp; noted&#183;The portal to US government sites has a new design and a new address:www.gpoaccess.gov&#183;The Unicorn Tapestries:www.metmuseum.org/explore/Unicorn/unicorn_splash.htm&#183;50 years of DNA:www.dna50.org&#183;Iraq's antiquities:www2.h-net. msu.edu/~museum/iraq.html&#183;Is it real or is it graphics?www.fakeorfoto.comSix of the best: War newsAl-Jazeerahttp://english.aljazeera.netIraqwww.uruklink.net/mofa/epage.htmCyberjournalinkswww.cyberjournalist.net/features/iraqcoverage.htmlUS DoDwww.defenselink.milUK MODwww.operations.mod.uk/telic/Russian reportswww.aeronautics.ru
How au fait with computers must the modern newspaper editor be?Massively, because even when I started on the Sun 12 years ago, you'd still see real hot metal stuff. I witnessed the whole computer revolution coming in and now I'm virtually able to edit the paper even when I'm at home. Wherever I am in the world I can pull up copy, pictures or even the pages as they're appearing in the paper.What about the American journalist sacked for digitally altering a picture?We've had a few incidents here and even the Guardian had one on budget day once. There's always a temptation to "clean up" a picture, which can be done very quickly on a computer. But we now have a strict policy where we don't tamper with pictures - except where we're doing so deliberately to make them entertaining and we now acknowledge we've done it. Given the power of computers now, not saying you've altered a picture is unethical.Any thoughts on the disabling of the Al-Jazeera website?I think any form of censorship is ridiculous. With the Americans, the whole Peter Arnett thing and the attacks on the Al Jazeera site are a little bit pathetic. The idea that you can close people down by doing that is long gone. If you try to close down a site, the internet is like a rather ugly hydra and will reproduce the site a thousand times elsewhere!Would we still find you on the Arsenal site?Yes, Arseweb (www.arseweb.com) is still a favourite haunt - though I'm sure there are a few raised eyebrows in the IT department when they see the name! It's the archetypal, unofficial, fan website where you get the best and most outrageous comment and rants - I rather like that.Whose email address would you like?I wouldn't mind George Bush's - just so every morning he downloaded a mail and saw the word "twat"!www.mirror.co.ukPiers Morgan's favourite linksMediaGuardianmediaguardian.co.ukBBC Newsnews.bbc.co.ukCNNwww.cnn.comPopbitchwww.popbitch.com
Interactive television is now available through the set-top boxes attached to 7 million TVs in the UK. That means nearly a third of all British homes now enjoy interactive services and the internet through television. However, unlike the web, the ability to produce it has remained in the hands of the few.So far the pioneering interactive TV producers have been the big television broadcasters. BSkyB led the way with its interactive sports and news channels while the BBC scored successes with Wimbledon and Walking with Beasts. Channel 4 broadcast interactive versions of Big Brother and the cult game show, Banzai.Last month, ITV finally announced that it too would begin offering Sky subscribers its interactive service, ITV Now.Many smaller companies and independent designers have complained that the cost of making interactive TV is too high and too difficult. For this reason, interactive TV's progress has been stunted. Unless you belong to a big company that can afford to develop its own software, the cost of entry has been too high.Until now, that is. Recent weeks have seen three technology companies launch "authoring" tools for interactive TV. These tools are off-the-shelf software packages that mean interactive TV can now be produced on a desktop PC. Two US companies, Ensequence and WatchPoint Media, have recently set up offices in the UK and last week, the Irish software house Emuse launched its own authoring software."We see a whole new market emerging," Michael Rainsford, chief executive of Emuse, told half a dozen journalists who had been flown to Dublin for the launch of its interactive TV software. "We have seen the need for this kind of authoring tool that can change iTV into a mass market rather than a cottage industry."It has taken four years and millions of pounds to develop Modelstream - a tool that uses the familiar "drag-and-drop" of programs such as Photoshop or Dreamweaver. If adopted, this new software should bring down the cost of producing interactive TV and open up the medium to smaller companies."We want to do what Adobe did for desktop publishing and Macromedia did for the web," says Rainsford. "It's like comparing publishing in the age of hot type to what we have today. We want to make the production of interactive TV far less labour intensive."What each of these companies wants is to put the production of interactive TV in the hands of young creatives. For &#163;10,000 small companies can buy software enabling them to produce interactive TV. Of course, the independents will still have to find a broadcaster to air them, but it is far easier to approach a broadcaster with a working model than a mere set of ideas and a storyboard, says Rainsford.It is not just the small creatives   who can use the software. Granada has already signed up for Modelstream for the next instalment of I'm a Celebrity Get Me Out of Here. The BBC has licensed Ensequence's on-Q tool, while the Discovery Channel is currently testing WatchPoint Media's Storyteller software.Despite this, many in the television industry remain sceptical about interactive TV. Studies have shown that   while viewers might initially press the red button out of curiosity, they often do not do so on a regular basis. Interactive TV's real successes remain gaming and gambling.Others say that it is still early days for the medium and that the introduction of authoring tools should open up the market. For the viewer the message is simple: a lot more interactive TV in the future.
When the BBC's digital broadcasting services launched in earnest a few years ago, they were promoted by an advertising campaign that claimed one of the benefits of the new technology was that listeners would be able to "see" radio. This was later played down in favour of more channels and electronic programme guides but the potential for DAB (digital audio broadcasting), the technology behind digital radio, to carry pictures as well as sound is now being adapted for the mobile market.In trials held during the National Association of Broadcasters (NAB) Convention in Las Vegas, which ends today, NTL Broadcast and Tandberg Television, leading companies in TV and radio transmission and network distribution for cable, satellite and IP respectively, have been working with Microsoft to demonstrate real-time video streaming using DAB as the carrying medium. The demo aimed to show that video and audio can be transmitted to PCs, PDAs and mobile phones at rates of 120kbps.The demonstration highlighted mobiles but DAB receivers with reasonably sized screens are in production and will appear this year. These will be able to handle HTML for web connection and video, as well as more flexible browsing of electronic programme guides.Material for the NTL demonstration came from two sources: Capital Radio Group which includes Capital FM, Capital Gold London, XFM and Century 105 - and video from CNN International. The DAB sound and video signals were IP encapsulated and multiplexed using technology from RadioScape, which recently demonstrated non real-time video   over DAB. The CNN video was encoded through hardware designed by Tandberg for use with Windows Media 9 and carried on the DVB (digital video broadcasting) platform, the core technology of digital TV transmission.The DAB and DVB streams were uplinked from NTL's teleport in the UK, bounced off an Atlantic Ocean satellite and received by a dish at the convention centre in Las Vegas. The signals were then decoded to be retransmitted over DAB. The MPeg-encoded live audio could be heard on a Windows XP PC fitted with a RadioScape DAB card and handheld PDAs. Store and forward capability, which allows material to be received, saved and accessed later, was also demonstrated on Pocket PCs, as well as desktop units.It is the audio and video content that is seen as crucial in attracting people to mobile "broadcasting". "The only problem with the business model is finding the people to produce mass market receivers and make watchable content," says Simon Mason, head of new product development at NTL Broadcast. "There is an increasing number of people on the move who are demanding news and information that is not tied to a broadcast schedule and the technology is available today to deliver it to them."Mason believes that DAB is regarded as better able to deliver audio and video than either 3G or DVB. "3G is not a broad enough network for a lot of content and DVB is best suited to fixed receivers," he says.There were once fears that DAB could become cheap TV. Now there are indications that it could be the technology that carries forward the mobile dream.
Mondex, Beenz, PayBox, Splash Plastic and BarterCard are just a handful of the alternative payment methods that have sprung up over the past few years but have failed to spark the public's imagination.These have recently been joined by a new army, including PrePay Technologies and ValueLink. They have replaced paper-based gift vouchers with magnetic stripe plastic cards, which can be re-used by topping them up with cash.But according to Scott Thomson, these products are flawed because they are inflexible and generally solve a single problem rather than a broad range.Thomson, the founder of Smart Voucher, believes he has the solution the market has been waiting for - a payment enabler. But first, what does he have that the others haven't? There's his pedigree, for starters. The 57-year-old created Euro Travellers cheques while at Thomas Cook, and followed this up in 1988 by creating the Switch debit card while working for Midland Bank.For Morrison's supermarket chain he created cash back: he claims it has saved the retail industry around &#163;750m in bank charges over the past decade. He also developed the strategy for the Tesco Clubcard, which he claims was the first plastic card available to everybody regardless of financial status. He is also credited with prompting the acceptance of credit and debit cards at both Marks &amp; Spencer and the Post Office.For Smart Voucher, he has devised a simple platform for securely managing and transferring personal payments between people and/or organisations both online and offline   in real time. A consumer could, for instance, go into a shop and buy a Smart Voucher "voucher" of any value, which could be redeemed or part-redeemed either at the retailer's online store or one of its physical outlets. Retailers could also give their voucher schemes interoperability with those of other retailers.But vouchers are only his opening shot. He has grander plans. He intends to simplify the global transfer of money. "I quickly realised it was much more than just gift vouchers, and that it would become the third major payment solution in the world with Visa and MasterCard," he says.He laughs off the suggestion that he might be exaggerating and recalls similar things being said about Switch. Despite the sceptics, who did not believe he could deliver on his promise of creating a replacement for cheques, he codenamed the project Madeira, because he believed it would be a piece of cake.He predicts he will be able to undercut the likes of Travellers cheques and Moneygrams - with their high commissions and transmission costs - by as much as 90% and offer a significantly faster transfer.The voucher can be a paper printout, or be included within an SMS message, or stored on a plastic magnetic stripe card because it just consists of a unique 19-digit number and a cash value. To redeem a voucher, the holder has to merely present the unique number and the cash value - in whatever form they have it - and if the numbers match then it is accepted, otherwise it will be rejected.These voucher details are held on a secure database developed over the past two years by Telecom Service Centres in Scotland - which also works with the likes of Tesco and T-Mobile - and is hosted by telecoms provider Energis in Leeds.Smart Voucher has the technology platform in place for, say, a customer to walk into a participating bank or retailer's store and hand over &#163;100 and ask for this to be converted into US dollars before being transferred overseas. At the touch of a button, the terminal would produce a slip of paper with the US dollar value and a unique number. This could then be transferred overseas using an email, SMS message or telephone call to the recipient, who would take the details into a store or bank and redeem them for cash or goods.Thomson says the technology and principle behind Smart Voucher is simple and has therefore taken out patents on its processes. "Even   though it is so simplistic, it still takes somebody to see it and do it."He believes that other products have failed to appeal to the mass-market consumer because they were neither simple nor easy to use: "If it's not simple, then people won't buy it. Some of the best ideas in the world never got off the ground because people couldn't understand them."This simplicity has been combined with his other business imperative: not excluding anybody. "We started out with the simple philosophy that no potential consumer should ever be excluded from using new technology, and the problem is that many are excluded today by a lot of the products available," he says.Thomson cites the examples of people who do not have a credit card or access to a PC but want to buy an easyJet plane ticket on the internet or wish to open an online betting account. Basically, they can't do it. It is   the same for people who want to buy gift vouchers online. These restrictions preclude a large proportion of the UK population from enjoying technological advances.The inclusiveness of the Smart Voucher system is helped by its predominant use of well-entrenched technology. An example is the partnership it has formed with the Royal Bank of Scotland, which gives access to its electronic payment links that lie between the bank and most of the UK's leading retailers. This significantly reduces the cost of integrating the solution into a retailer's infrastructure compared with other products that can require costly modifications at the point of sale.In contrast to other products, Smart Voucher is a payment enabler rather than an alternative currency. It is also a "white label" product, which means the vouchers will be branded under the individual retailer's name rather than that of Smart Voucher.Although reluctant to reveal the identities the retailers lined up to use the Smart Voucher platform, Thomson did say that a major UK bookmaker is about to issue vouchers in its betting offices that will allow clients to use them online or via the telephone before redeeming their winnings in the office. This overcomes the need for punters to have a credit or debit card and will be offered worldwide.Highlighting the flexibility of Smart Voucher, a major supermarket is issuing customers with fuel tokens on plastic top-up cards for use in unmanned petrol stations. This is likely to lead to Smart Voucher's personal payment capability being used for other applications within the group.However, most of Smart Voucher's initial focus is on the more straightforward &#163;1.2 billion a year gift vouchers market. Thomson says: "Retailers are all considering the option of using plastic rather than paper-based vouchers and we've had lots of interest from retailers. The market is at a watershed and retailers shouldn't rush into signing up with any provider that only offers a single solution. Many competitors have some of our capabilities but not all of them - they are not as comprehensive."For instance, the Smart Voucher product enables purchase and redemption both online and offline, which is not possible with the Debenhams gift card from PrePay Technologies or the Asda gift card from ValueLink. Smart Voucher also does not actually hold any money that has been deposited, unlike other products, including some of the emerging mobile phone payment schemes, since it goes directly to the retailer. Neither does it hold personal details of consumers. This information is held by the retailer.Thomson says these are both concerns for retailers: "They have not been enamoured by money going off into other people's bank accounts and not their own. And having a direct hold on their customers is massively important to them."This gives the Smart Voucher vouchers the anonymity and characteristics associated with cash while also offering the capability for information tracking if needed. This allows a retailer to monitor what products have been bought using the vouchers, giving them the ability to link a voucher to a specific product or product category.An example could be a student whose parents have bought him a gift voucher issued by a major supermarket chain. This could be set up so that it can only be redeemed against essential items such as food rather than cigarettes and alcohol. According to Thomson, this is a relatively simple exercise involving the assignment of part of the voucher's unique number to the exempt product category codes taken from the retailer's price look-up file. These are then compared with those being scanned at the checkout. All this is in real-time and, again, uses existing technology.While Smart Voucher might not prove popular with students, Thomson is confident that enough people will be interested to ensure he adds the creation of another successful payment solution to his CV.
Not many people know this, but the hub of Britain's e-government effort is a site called Government Gateway -www.gateway.gov.uk. It went live in 2001 to provide a one-stop answer to e-government's biggest problem: how to know that the person you're dealing with is genuine.Gateway is also a remarkable attempt to re-engineer public services on a "hub and spoke" model. The idea is for Whitehall departments, government agencies and local authorities to share the same shop window for secure transactions. Citizens and businesses don't need to know which agency or tier of administration is handling their case.Two years on, this is still a distant vision. Few individuals have bothered to obtain digital signatures, which are needed for the top level of security. Plans for local authorities to connect to the Gateway seem to be stalled. Government web sites continue to proliferate: at the last count, there were more than 3,000.There are even questions about the constitutional legality of the model. "It seems to be a case of technology determining the structure of government rather than the other way round," says John Morison, professor of jurisprudence   at Queen's University Belfast.The Office of the e-Envoy, which runs Gateway as one of a handful of core essential e-government systems, said this week that much progress has been made. Fourteen public services are available through the Gateway. The most widely used is income tax self-assessment, though people can also apply for child benefit online. Other services are aimed mainly at business users.However, in the year to March 31, the Gateway handled only 914,304 transactions. According to Cabinet Office e-minister Douglas Alexander, that is just 0.02% of the 5bn transactions government carries out with business alone every year.Technically, Gateway is an authentication and routing engine based on open standards, allowing different government offices to exchange messages that are secure and cannot be repudiated. Gateway "middleware" authenticates a user and, with "tagging" technology similar to that of the world wide web, routes messages securely to the recipient.Signing on for a user name and password is straightforward, even for a Mac user. You have to register for one of four services - I picked self assessment. On my first attempt, I entered a false Inland Revenue reference along with my postcode and national insurance number. The registration was rejected because this did "not match the information held by the government department that handles this service". The second attempt produced a 12-digit user ID which, in theory, I can now use for every government service.In theory. The Office of the e-Envoy estimates that 20% of the 500 services that government provides need users to prove their identity. Yet most of the "transactional" government services of interest to ordinary people - paying parking tickets, for example - are run by local councils. They have shown little enthusiasm for becoming "spokes" of the Cabinet Office model of government.Two authorities last year signed up to pilot Gateway: Sedgemoor district in Somerset and Sunderland City. Sedgemoor is testing it to authenticate access to personal information and to conduct transactions in a way that cannot be repudiated. Sunderland ended up developing its own system for exchanging messages between departments.When first announced, Gateway technology attracted a huge amount of international interest. The Office of the e-Envoy negotiated an agreement with Microsoft under which it would receive a royalty of 24% on technology sales. No other government has taken up the offer.One hope is that new services will increase uptake for the Gateway. One service to be launched this year will allow users to make payments electronically with any government agency. Another, secure mail, will be the start of two-way e-government.The other hope is for intermediaries such as private companies and voluntary organisations to run e-government services through the Gateway. "We firmly believe that more intermediaries offering the service means more channels to the end customer and therefore more take-up," the official said.That may be not quite as easy as it sounds. Professor Morison is concerned about the constitutional implications. In the current issue of the journal Public Law, he warns that by promoting one-stop government, the Gateway is "attempting to promote a structural change that would have fundamental constitutional implications... Ideas of separation of powers, rule of law and basic principles of legality do not seem to have troubled the information systems engineers."No doubt these issues are soluble. But one lesson to draw from Gateway is that, however clever the technology, don't try to ignore the history, geography and culture of the government machine.Get it on GatewayThe 14 public services available, of which the  most widely used is income tax self assessmentChild benefit online(Department of Work and Pensions)Corporation tax(Inland Revenue)Tax credits(Inland Revenue)Electronic VAT return(HM Customs and Excise)Sheep annual premium scheme application(Northern Ireland department of agriculture)Export licence(Department of Trade and Industry)Duty deferment Electronic Statements(HM Customs and Excise)New export system (NES)(HM Customs and Excise)Oils look-up service(HM Customs and Excise)Internet service for self assessment(Inland Revenue)PAYE(Inland Revenue)DARD online(Department of Agriculture and Rural Development for Northern Ireland)IACS Area Aid Application(Defra)Landweb direct(Land Registers of Northern Ireland)www.gateway.gov.uk
Start rightI am a teacher, and I frequently use a previous lesson plan as my starting point for a new one. Sometimes I have accidentally saved the new plan, thereby wiping the original. I realise that the sensible solution would be to use Save As from the outset, but I wonder if there is a way of undoing a save in Word.NeilJack Schofield replies:The Save command is usually irrevocable, unless you use a program with a "history" feature that saves versions of a document. Microsoft Word has an "undo" feature, which is shown by the icon with a curvy backwards arrow on the toolbar. If you click the downward-pointing triangle next to the curvy arrow, it will drop down a list of the things that you can undo. Alternatively, if you press Ctrl-Z, in most applications, it will undo the last action that can be undone. However, Save is usually not undoable.Could you make a sort of Copernican shift in the way you think about files? In other words, could you start by thinking about the data rather than the application? So, if you want to create a lesson plan, use Windows Explorer to go to the directory where you plan to store it. Once there, create the document and give it a name. For a new document, press the right mouse button, select New from the menu, and choose the type of document you want: a text or word processing document, a spreadsheet, and so on. Now give it a name.If you want to create a new document based on an old one, select the old one and copy it. The quickest way to do this is to press Ctrl-C (for copy) and Ctrl-V (for paste). Select the new file ("Copy of_") and press F2 to rename it, or right-click the mouse and select Rename. Type in the new name. Now, when you press return or double-click the new file, it will load both the program and the document, and you can start work.Now, when you want to save your new document, all you have to do is press Ctrl-S. You will not have to think about what to call it or where you want to save it, so you will never see Word's unlovely File|Save As dialog boxes. Pressing Ctrl-S takes less than a second: do it often and you will never lose unsaved work. And you will never overwrite an original document.Saving keystrokesIs there a way to create shortcuts to cut down keystrokes, not just in   Microsoft Word but in all the programs I use in Windows XP?John BeardsworthJS:Many programs have their own way of running "macro" commands, and Word lets you "record" and "play back" strings of commands to perform operations that you do often. You can use the same sort of macros across a number of applications if you create them using a separate macro programming application. There are lots available, but you can start by looking at Macro Buddy (www.newsoftwares.net/macrobuddy) and Macro Express (www.macros.com). Quick Macros (www.quickmacros.com) may appeal to those more familiar with macro programming. QuicKeys (www.cesoft.com) has been a very popular way of adding commands to keys on the Apple Macintosh since the 1980s, and is also available for Windows. Most of these programs are available as shareware, so you can try before you buy. Prices are generally between $20 and $40.Access Al JazeeraWhen attempting to access Al Jazeera's English site, I often get a message saying "HTTP 403.6 - Forbidden: IP address rejected. You do not have permission to view this directory or page from the Internet address of your Web browser". Does this mean that Microsoft, my ISP (AOL), or even the Pentagon is censoring my use of the internet?Geoff WestgarthJS:The 403 Forbidden error message, like the much more common 404 Not Found, is sent by the web server software, and has nothing to do with anybody else. It may be that the Al Jazeera server was down for maintenance or a change of servers. I notice that english.aljazeera.net was running Microsoft's IIS/5.0 web server software on Windows 2000 until April 1, and it is now running Microsoft's IIS/5.0 on Linux.Psion syncI use a Psion 5mx and would like to be able to synchronise the agenda function built into the Psion package with my office's Novell GroupWise calendar and diary.Ken De SouzaJS:Your best bet is Puma's Intellisync for Windows. Whereas most synchronisation programs support Microsoft Outlook, Intellisync works with Outlook, Lotus Notes, ACT! and GroupWise. On the client side, it supports Palm, Pocket PC, Windows CE and Symbian handhelds. In my experience, it works well, though I have not tried to synchronise with a Psion.My boxed copy of Intellisync has a sticker that says: "Psion Device Owners: Support for Symbian-compatible handhelds is offered via internet download of Intellisync atwww.pumatech.com/symbian" so this could be a good place to start.Less helpI run Windows XP and use Internet Explorer v6. One annoying feature that I would like to disable is the history list of previous searches. When I click in the Google search box, my previous key search words are displayed.David LawsonJS:Turn off Internet Explorer's AutoComplete feature, which is under Tools|Internet Options|Content.Wholly bogusI cannot print out documents from the internet and am getting a message that says: "virus found on work station!!" If I click File and Print, the heading is:Model: HP Laserjet 6LStatus: IdleType: Absolutely bogus WPS Printer DriverWhere: LPT1Gene McClellandJS:A web search reveals that this is not a virus, it is someone being silly. You can probably get your printer back by unplugging and uninstalling it, then installing it again. The alternative is to edit the Windows registry to remove the entries for the bogus Windows Printing System driver, as explained online at http://masl.to/? G64913224 and http://masl.to/? G16912224.In general, I prefer to use a utility such as RegCleaner to edit the registry, rather than edit it directly, but I don't know if it would work in this case. RegCleaner is available free fromwww.vtoy.fi/jv16/shtml/regcleaner.shtmlBackchat&#183;Last week, I commented on the danger of overheating in notebook PCs, saying a processor "can burn up in about a minute". Since then I have found some tests run by the Tom's Hardware website in 1971. On removing the heat sink, "both Athlon processors, the new one as well as the old one, died within fractions of a second," though the two Pentium chips survived. You can download a video of the experiment fromwww6.tomshardware.com/ cpu/20010917&#183;Keith Arrowsmith wanted a UK-oriented replacement for My BBC, a discontinued news service that allowed users to select subjects from pre-defined panels. Michael Williams has the best solution so far:www.newsisfree.com. It has feeds "from all over the world, and not just current affairs so, without too much trouble you should be able to get your page looking like whatever you want."
The "arms race" between content owners (eg, Sony Music) and gadget makers (eg, Sony Consumer Entertainment) is continuing apace.As far as content owners - such as record companies - are concerned, the culture of unauthorised copying is a big problem. In the UK, two-thirds of households have copied CD music or games. And it isn't just kids: over-55s are just as likely to copy as teenagers and, surprisingly, women are more likely to copy than men.This culture will be hard to change, which is why content owners want computer and consumer electronics equipment to enforce their business models for them.  But they are not. When Sony and Phillips recently showed new technology for recording 100 hours of music on a single CD, the British Phonographic Industry called it "bad news for the music industry", while the president of Sony Consumer Electronics said "the music companies need to change their business model". But there is little evidence they have.In 1825, when the proponents of the new-fangled railroad were petitioning the British parliament for permission to lay the first commercial tracks between Liverpool and Manchester, canal owners began lobbying to stop the use of steam engines to transport goods and passengers. Since the railway would be much faster, and cheaper, it would benefit the economy as a whole. But for canal owners, the railway meant, as one Thomas Baines put it, an end to their "dreams of a sanguine avarice". What better description of how the IT world sees record companies.Industry efforts to extend and embrace MP3, peer to peer and the "rip, mix, burn" culture continue despite a poor start. Sony and Universal's Pressplay and the independent Rhapsody have about 50,000 subscribers each. Warner, EMI and BMG Music's MusicNet has 10,000. In comparison, KaZaA, the largest P2P network, has more than 200m registered users.Now BT is getting in on that. It launched its Dotmusic on Demand (DoD) service last month. For a tenner a month, you can have unlimited low-quality (32Kbps) streamed audio and limited Windows Media Player format downloads for CD burning. It is PC-only but Apple is planning to launch its own service.The BT service may appeal to some - people who don't want EMI artists on their CDs, for example, because EMI hasn't granted burning privileges. Or people who don't like Sony artists such as Michael Jackson and Bruce Springsteen.   Or people who don't like The Beatles and The Rolling Stones, also missing from DoD.I don't see how the service can succeed in this incarnation, but surely there would have been many people happy to pay a tenner a month to have carried on using Napster: it worked, it was convenient, it was easy and it was cross-platform. It was also fun, delivering serendipity alongside songs.The record companies should have bought it instead of acting like canal owners paying lawyers to try to get the government to legislate against the railway.
Wi-Fi wireless networking has been a great success over the past two years. Intel has even been advertising the unwired life on prime-time television: wireless networking is included in its Centrino chip set. But no technology is without problems, and Wi-Fi has a couple that could trap the unwary.The Wi-Fi logo is supported by the Wireless Ethernet Compatibility Alliance, and can be applied to wireless local area networking products that pass its interoperability tests. The underlying standard is IEEE 802.11b.As usual, there are other versions of the standard designed to offer even faster wireless connections. The leading contenders are 802.11a and 802.11g. Both offer a   nominal speed of 54 megabits per second, which compares with 11Mbps for 802.11b.Surprisingly, since this standard has not been ratified, you can already buy 802.11g equipment. I wonder how many of the people who have been rash enough to buy unratified products have also been circumspect enough to get a money-back guarantee if they turn out not to be compatible with the final specification.The attraction of 802.11g is that it operates at the same frequency as 802.11b. This should mean that 11g products will be able to talk to 11b products. And the whole history of the data processing industry, from Herman Hollerith's 80-column punched cards to the 80-character screens still in common use today, suggests that backwards compatibility is essential.However, 802.11g is also a compromise with major drawbacks. It actually has to support two wireless systems: the old one from 802.11b and, ironically, the new one from 802.11a. Unfortunately, the 802.11g implementation of the 802.11a system is crippled.Why is 802.11a - which we can now call Wi-Fi5 - better than 802.11g? First, it uses the 5GHz wireless frequency range. This means it does not suffer from interference from Bluetooth wireless, cordless phones, microwave ovens, and all the other rubbish that uses the same unlicensed 2.4GHz frequency as 802.11b and 802.11g. Second, Wi-Fi5 supports eight simultaneous communications channels instead of three and 2.4GHz simply does not have enough capacity to support eight channels.As for the incompatibility of 802.11a and 802.11b, you can solve that by installing separate hubs (or wireless access points) for each system. Alternatively there are "bridging" 802.11a/b hubs, such as the Cisco Aironet 1200 series, and dual mode notebook cards such as D-Link's AirPro DWL-AB650.We've already seen a hint of problems with 802.11b at the recent CeBIT computer trade show in Germany. So many companies were trying to run separate Wi-Fi networks side by side that everybody's throughput approached zero. Things could get a lot worse , as Wi-Fi becomes more popular, and as more and more radio gadgets pile in using the same bandwidth.It could be better to go for 5GHz and 802.11a now, when it will hurt a bit, rather than later, when it might hurt a lot.
Tropico 2: Pirate CovePC, &#163;34.99Take 2/Frog City4/5 starsThe original Tropico had you running your own banana republic dictatorship. The sequel, however, puts you in the position of a pirate king running your own island. This time you don't have to worry about appeasing different factions because you only have to worry about your captives, who do the grunt work, and your pirates, who man your ships, protect your island from invaders and keep the captives in check.This means facilitating all their requirements by building the relevant economies on your island. Pirates   need grog, food and wenches at a basic level and, as they gain more experience in pirating, they'll want classier company and luxuries such as cigars. Captives, on the other hand, need sleeping quarters, food and plenty of fearful d&#233;cor to keep them in a state of sullen obedience.The 2D graphics are somewhat tired by today's standards, but the gameplay is solid and challenging, with a few twists, such as the ability to resurrect dead pirates to become zombie servants, and the pirates' bosses who appear to be whipping their captives with wet towels! And if you're not too critical of the graphics, then you'll have a lot of fun getting in touch with your inner pirate.RPPrimalPlayStation 2, &#163;39.99Sony4/5 starsPrimal is the second weapon in Sony UK's drive to generate a worldwide reputation as a developer as opposed to a publisher. Created at the company's studio in Cambridge, it will undoubtedly be afforded a marketing   blitz as impressive as that of The Getaway, its Soho-developed predecessor.Primal belongs firmly to the established third-person, action-adventure genre. You get a feisty central female character - Jen - and a gothic storyline involving the restoration of balance between order and chaos by solving puzzles and engaging in combat across several worlds situated in alternate dimensions.Primal starts very slowly but it is worth persevering. The puzzles are among the best ever seen in a game, and frequently involve cooperation between Jen and a gargoyle called Scree. Great graphics and an absorbing storyline reinforce the feeling that Primal is a very well crafted game indeed. But it narrowly fails to provide the elusive new ingredient that would send PlayStation 2 owners scurrying to the shops in droves.SBIndiana Jones and the Emperor's TombXbox, &#163;44.99LucasArts/Activision3/5 starsBefore Lara Croft made tomb raiding so fashionable, there was only one archaeologist adventurer who mattered - Indiana Jones. But while the whip-wielding hero may have triumphed in the cinema, his interactive track record has been patchy.This is a third person platform adventure, with jumping bits, puzzle sections and combat. There is too much of the latter, with some levels consisting of little more than a series of running battles. Luckily, the fighting is a treat, with broken furniture and headbutting only two of the ways to dispatch opponents.Sadly, the puzzles are so anachronistic they could have been raided from the Ark.There will be plenty of fans who will enjoy pummelling their way through this game, but Indiana Jones and The Emperor's Tomb shouldn't worry Lara too much.GH
Welcome to the NewsRoom at permachat.co.uk, the UK's premiere online current affairs forum!connecting to server...Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:How will the Chancellor's latest budget affect you and your family, your savings, your pension, your mortgage and your future? Our online financial expert DrMoney is here to answer all your questions.LadeezMan:not in my namejenni@boughtledger:amen to thatDrMoney:I see. What about the lease?LadeezMan:not in my name either.DrMoney:The phone bill?LadeezMan:no way. I use me cat's name for thatPashmina:awww. wots he calledLadeezMan:Mrs Victor S Dubravski.jenni@boughtledger:I thought we were talking about the warDrMoney:so financially speaking, you don't existLadeezMan:I got my reasonsPashmina:sweet! my cats called atomic kittenBronco:we knowLadeezMan:shoud I get me an ISAPashmina:only she aint no kitten no moreDrMoney:you haven't got any moneyjenni@boughtledger:there's a war on you knowHost_Chris2:The budget is also important. we've had plenty of war debate in recent weeksLadeezMan:but if I knew where I coud get 1 cheapjenni@boughtledger:I was in rehab for thatPashmina:shes reallly fat nowBronco:jenni@ how long u in rehab 4jenni@boughtledger:since my breakdownBronco:when was thatPashmina:all she does is eat &amp; eatHost_Chris2:anyone else have a question for DrMoney?jenni@boughtledger:it began with the failure to secure a 2nd un resolutionPashmina:maybe atomic kitten should go to the priority for eating disoders!Bronco:I seejenni@boughtledger:its all there on my websiteDrMoney:can I go thenPashmina:I mean my cat atomic kitten not the band!!Bronco:we knowHost_Chris2:come on, people. We're lucky to have our financial expert with us today!LadeezMan:hes relly opened my eyesDrMoney:I have to pretend to be Noddy online in 10 minPashmina:but maybe they should as well!jenni@boughtledger:thanks for all your support btwBronco:no problemoDrMoney:&amp; I need to peejenni@boughtledger:im being sarcasticHost_Chris2:does anyone have a last question for Dr Money?LadeezMan:whats big ears really like&gt;connection to server has been terminated...
Reverse the trend!TUO TI DEKROW TSUJ EV'I. It's all backwards isn't it? It's fun to have Online turned into reverse - especially without telling us. After all we readers are nerds. We much prefer to struggle with our tabloid, turning it upside down and hiding it under a new title like Life. Is this permanent? Or can we have our intelligent supplement back?David Perryname and address withheldCounter-attackNot pleased with the relegation to the back pages. Could you get it printed upside down so we don't have to turn pages backwards to follow an article. It is counter-intuitive to read left to right and yet turn pages right to left. Otherwise I am happy.John BricjJohn bricj@essex.ac.ukStart at the startThe expanded coverage of the indispensable Online is appreciated but just because Windows stops at Start is no good reason for Online to start at the end. Can we have a conventional and detachable supplement again?Tom Wilsonsloth.linow@ntlworld.comStability riskJack Schofield (April 3) cannot be serious about allowing a free-for-all in IT systems in the office just because people are now more IT literate than they were in the past. Even with a streamlined "plain vanilla"    network setup, using not much more than standard MS Office applications, IT support staff often struggle to support all users. No competent office manager could countenance risking the stability of the systems just to allow the more adventurous staff to choose their software  and expect the IT manager to support everything.David Heatonemail address withheldAddictive signsThe article about online gaming addiction (Just one more go, April 3) highlighted some findings from our most recent study. Although 15% of our sample claimed they played for more than 50 hours a week, high preoccupation doesn't necessarily mean these players are addicted to online gaming. In simple terms, we define a videogame addict as someone who views their playing as the single most important thing in their life. Although videogame addiction exists, our research has shown that very few people appear to display all the symptoms you would find in other addictive behaviours.Professor Mark Griffiths, Dr Mark Davies and Darren ChappellPsychology division,  Nottingham Trent Universitymark.griffiths@ntu.ac.ukPatch it upRe: Just one more go. All is not lost. Apparently there's a patch you can download.Stuart Morrisonstuart.morrison@hadez.orgTrusty supportI agree with Andy Weller (Feedback, April 3), who suggested that Guardian Online should have a weekly column that supports and promotes Linux and other open source developments.If Microsoft has its way, it will control everything. It is no accident that they have appointed themselves as guardians of who is trustworthy. This   is like the sharks being in charge of beach safety. Within the next few years, they will be labelling all open source software as inherently untrustworthy. Once that policy succeeds, Microsoft will be able to force us all to keep paying them however much they want.Dave Waltondave@flexible.co.ukOpen up OfficeI think Online should review OpenOffice. I have been trying out the latest version for a month and am very impressed. Most importantly, it isn't Microsoft, but it also has several innovations that give it advantages over Word and Excel.It takes a long time to load from cold and doesn't exchange some of the more complicated formatting with MS Office, nor does it communicate with MiniWrite on my Palm - yet. But it has an excellent options list that makes tweaking it to your own idiosyncrasies extremely easy. The word completion facility speeds document production no end, once it has built up a decent vocabulary of words. Perhaps its other advantage, as well as being free, is that it will continually improve as enthusiasts add to it.Mark N TaylorMark@taylor-family.co.ukManagerial bugsMuch as I share your correspondent's enthusiasm for the Championship Manager series (This Sporting Life, April 3), I must question whether he has played the released full version.As a cursory glance at the official community bulletin board will tell you, the game, as it stands out of the box, is seriously flawed, with innumerable bugs. Already an enhancement pack (a patch by any other name) has been released and another is promised maybe within a month.Why was it released in this state in the first place and what do buyers without an internet connection do to make the game playable?Keith Hazelton
No one will take any satisfaction from watching UpMyStreet (www.upmystreet.co.uk) go down the tubes - especially when location-based services are supposed to be all the rage. Having survived the dotcom crash, the company, which provides information and services based on postcodes, ran out of cash last week, despite having received &#163;12m from investors in 1999. It is now in administration, and is advertising in the financial press for any one interested in buying its assets.One company very interested in acquiring the consumer side of UMS (about 70% of its assets) is MyVillage, which has been playing number two to UMS and is now poised to pounce -    if the price is right. MyVillage (www.myvillage.com) received less than &#163;1m in capital and claims to have been posting profits in recent months. Roifield Brown, who founded it in a backroom as a community notice board for Notting Hill in London before spreading nationwide, says he is interested only in the consumer side of UMS, and not in the contracting work it does for local councils.If he could retain most of UMS's claimed 660,000 unique users a month, on top of MyVillage's 300,000, his company could be quids in. And with his main competitor out of the market, he would be left with a virtual monopoly. As every businessman knows, one is company, two is a   crowd. Brown says that, if successful, he would retain the MyVillage name despite the strong brand that UMS has created through its postcode driven database of local services, statistics and community chat.Whoever buys the assets of UMS - and there are companies sniffing around - they will be doing so when there are signs, albeit tentative, of a recovery in the bombed-out dotcom sector. There are plenty of undervalued companies around - and also a lot of money. However, investors are still nursing their losses from the dotcom collapse and are reluctant to part with it. Even if it is right up their street.
Mobile phonesPush and shoveIs America about to wreak revenge on Europe for stealing a global lead with SMS text messaging? Yes, if Chicago-based FastMobile has its way with its "Push-to-talk" launched here this week. For &#163;6.99 a month, it enables you to send a voice message as an SMS or - the killer application - to press a button on the side which effectively turns it into a "walkie-talkie" phone.This is the audio equivalent of instant messaging on computers. Lots of friends can be online at the same time, using their phones to send voice messages to anyone they have ticked as being in their buddy group.FastMobile thinks it will create a multi-billion euro business in Europe in a few years, replicating its success in parts of the US where it is claimed to have left text messaging in the starting stalls. The main drawback is that, as with text messaging and faxing, it won't work unless the person on the receiving end has also signed up.It is relatively easy to use. You get sent a couple of text messages, one of which triggers installation, and then you follow a series of instructions to set it up. We sent and received voice messages this week, though beware: when it is in instant messaging mode, everyone within listening distance can hear the message as well.Taking better picsFrustrated by the poor quality images taken by your camera phone? Japanese network NTT DoCoMo is set to launch a Sony Ericsson mobile with a camera that can take images of 1.3 million pixels - four times higher resolution than the VGA images taken by current European models. According to the managing director of NTT DoCoMo's i-Mode service, Takeshi Natsun, says: "The phone is as good as a low-end camera." The network is also launching a pair of phones from Sharp and Fujitsu, both of which have one megapixel cameras.HardwareCooking up a PCIcebox, the first "entertainment" PC designed specifically for the kitchen, will arrive in the UK in June. The &#163;2,300 unit is designed to be attached to the underside of a kitchen cabinet. Users then pull down its LCD screen to collect email, surf the internet, watch TV or a DVD or monitor other rooms via a video security camera.Connection to the net is via a wired connection, though the company hopes to offer a unit that integrates within a wireless Wi-Fi (802.11b) network later in the year.http://www.iceboxeurope.comOutselling PCsA research group is predicting that in five years' time, sales of Windows PCs   will be outstripped by Windows CE devices such as PDAs, home recording systems and smartphones. While 126m PCs sold last year, compared to just 9m Windows CE devices, eTForecastsbelieves that by 2008, sales figures will be 190m PCs to 220m CE products.Blu-Ray todayEarlier today, Japanese consumers got their first glimpse of what Sony hopes will establish it as the leading DVD recording format - its DVD recorder that archives on to Blu-Ray discs. Although they are physically similar to standard DVDs, Blu-Ray discs store up to 27GB of data - almost eight times as much as recordable DVDs. Although Sony insists there are no plans to launch the recorder here, it is rumoured a British launch could come as early as winter.GadgetsVersatile videoToshiba has set a May launch for its first DVD/hard disk video recorder for the home. The RD-XS30 combines a 60GB hard disk and a DVD recorder compatible with rewritable DVD-Ram and write-once DVD-R discs. Consumers record on to the hard disk and then transfer programmes they want to archive on to DVD. The unit has features found on such hard disk recorders as the Sky Plus and TiVo, including the option of enabling the viewer to pause live TV. It will cost around &#163;700, &#163;300 cheaper than the only other hard disk/DVD recorder combi on sale in the UK - Panasonic's DMR-HS2.www.toshiba.co.ukBigger hard disksDigital TV decoder manufacturer Humax is to launch a hard disk video recorder that offers four times more recording capacity than rival Sky Plus and TiVo boxes. Due in the UK in August, the &#163;420 PVR-900T comes with a 160GB hard disk - enough space to record up to 160 hours of programmes.The recorder is also available with smaller capacity hard disks at a slightly lower price. Owners can also store images from their digital camera and MPeg1 video and MP3 audio files on the recorder. Humax, which is launching products in the UK market under its own brand name for the first time, is also promising a budget DVD recorder and satellite and terrestrial digital TV decoders.www.humaxdigital.comDigital radioRewind radioBritish manufacturer Roberts is to debut a digital radio with a unique feature that enables listeners to "rewind" programmes and listen to transmissions made minutes earlier. The Gemini 1 digital radio includes a buffer that automatically archives the last 30 minutes of a programme. Listeners can delve as far back as several hours, if they add a Secure Digital storage card.Other features include a three band analogue tuner, alarm clock and an LCD display for showing programme information. The Gemini 1, along with three other Roberts digital radios, will go on sale in July for around &#163;200.www.robertsradio.co.ukPacMan returns to a store near youThe legendary 80s arcade game PacMan could soon be heading to your mobile. A deal between the game's creator, Namco, and mobile games specialist Digital Bridges, will see the wide-mouthed creature available in the form of packs sold by high street phone stores this summer. Other Namco arcade classics, such as Galaxian, are also being lined up for a mobile launch.Heathrow's hotspotNext time you jet off from Heathrow Airport don't forget your laptop. As of this week, terminal one has become the latest public space to offer high speed internet connection via Wi-Fi hotspots. Computer users with 802.11b facilities can log on at lounges, coffee shops and hotels within the airport. BT, who worked with Intel and airport operator BAA to set up the hotspots, is charging &#163;6 per hour for the service. Wi-Fi hotspots are already available at other airports including London's Gatwick and Stansted and Paris's Charles de Gaulle.
How about a bird's-eye view of your home? Visual Flight's VFR Photographic Scenery add-on for Microsoft's Flight Simulator 2002 allows you to do just that.Flight simulation has come a long way from the early days of blocky graphics and jerky scenery. In early versions of Microsoft's Flight Simulator (FS) the scenery offered few navigational clues, so instrument flying was essential. As a result of my experience with FS, my flight instructor warned me I was relying too much on instruments. Instead, flying on visual flight rules (VFR), which is what every pilot's first licence entitles them to do, means looking out of the window, using visual clues to decide where you are and whether the wings are level. It's also important to look out the window since that is, after all, where both the scenery and the hard objects with which you might collide exist.This package adds realism by draping a layer of photographic images on top of the scenery mesh, so all visual features are included. As a result, not only does the world look much more realistic, it also eliminates the randomly generated fixed ground objects, which can be irritating if you know the area.The photos originate from the Millennium Map, a complete UK map by Getmapping, a company whose planes flew over the country in 1999 taking photos from around 5,500 feet AGL (above ground level). Getmapping's offshoot Visual Flight says it plans to keep updating the images every five years.As long as you're flying in the east to south-east of England, the area covered by the package I tested, you   can look down on familiar towns and villages. According to Visual Flight, other packages are available now for the same price to cover the rest of England and Wales, with Scotland and Northern Ireland to come soon.What this means is that you can now navigate by known roads and railways. For instance, my first flight was out of Lydd then westwards over my home town of Lewes and down to Shoreham airport, a route I've flown before. Though it can be interesting to use the GPS, for most of the flight I was able to follow roads and railways without difficulty.Conurbations look good from the air, although as the manual confirms, you get best results when viewing from 2,000 feet or more, especially in built-up areas where there are more features. Much closer and the images get fuzzy and lose detail - flying at around the height from which the photos were taken offers the best results, and from 10,000 feet the realism is superb.Slow aircraft are better. I flew the Cessna 172 and its average 90-100mph flight speed allows for a comfortable meander around familiar landmarks, while flying a Boeing 737 meant the system couldn't keep up. That's because FS tries to predict which scenery blocks will be required next and the 737's 300-400mph speed just doesn't allow the   system enough time to pull the large amounts of data required off the disk. The result is unconvincing blocks of fuzzy grey in mid to far distance. Sometimes, even when flying slowly it took a while for nearby scenery to snap into focus, although a faster hard disk may help resolve this. Reducing weather-related visibility to between five to 20 miles helps and, given UK weather, it's also much more realistic.Installation took around half an hour on my 640MB RAM-equipped, 900MHz Athlon-based PC, and the three-CD package swallowed almost 2GB of hard disk space. It installs directly in the FS folder and is seen by FS as an add-on. It works with either FS 2002 or FS 2002 Professional.Visual Flight recommends a minimum specification of a 700MHz CPU with 64MB RAM and a 3D-accelerated graphics card with at least 16MB memory. On the test PC, using a fairly high resolution (for FS) of 1280 by 1024, I achieved around 20 frames per second. Much lower than that and the images start to look jerky, so the heftier the machinery, the better the results.The manual's directions are clear, explaining how to alter settings such as terrain texture size and MIP mapping. It also explains why it's best not to set FS to winter since the photos were taken during the warmer months so there's no snow in the photos.Overall, this add-on for FS improves realism, adds enjoyment and allows true VFR flying. It lets you stooge around landcapes you know and those you don't, just to get a new perspective. For the low &#163;29.99 price, it's highly recommended.&#183;£29.99 fromwww.visualflight.co.uk
Mobile crime fallsThe number of mobile phone thefts appears to be falling, according to the British Crime Survey. Such thefts make up much of the survey's robbery categorisation, which was down by 23% in the last three months of 2002, compared with a year earlier. The Home Office said these falls were likely to be due to more police work on street crime. However, it hopes that the integrated database of stolen and lost mobiles, making them useless on any UK network, will lead to further falls. Although activated on November 1, the database has been widely publicised only in the past few weeks.www.homeoffice.gov.uk/rds/pdfs2/hosb503.pdfwww.guardian.co.uk/online/story/0,3605,889292Britain ups paceBritain has slipped two places in the latest edition of an annual global league table of e-government services. But the study's author, management consultancy Accenture, also has good news for e-Envoy Andrew Pinder.According to the study Canada is the best place for online public administration. It is followed by Singapore and the US, in rankings unchanged from last year. Britain, which last year was number six, is now eighth, behind Finland and Hong Kong. But its rate of progress is twice that of the average, said Steve Dempsey, a partner at Accenture.The top 10 countries in "overall e-government maturity", are: Canada, also first last year, Singapore (2), USA (3), Denmark (5), Australia (4), Finland (7), Hong Kong (8), UK (6), Belgium (16), Germany (9).Defence IT projectIt's a busy time for the Ministry of Defence. Apart from fighting a war in Iraq, officials are launching the largest IT outsourcing project by the government yet.The Defence Information Infrastructure contract, expected to cost &#163;4 billion over 10 years, involves replacing more than 100 in-house systems in use by the three armed services and MoD headquarters. The MoD has invited expressions of interest from the world's largest IT services companies to install compatible systems across 1,000 sites, from Whitehall to submarines.Broadband feesBT changed things other than its logo and its voice-call pricing this week. It   plans to extend ADSL broadband coverage by setting trigger levels for 600 more exchanges, and lengthening the distance from the exchange at which ADSL will work from 3.4 to 3.8 miles.BT is also reducing its wholesale ADSL charges. However, some ISPs will not pass these savings on. AOL will retain its &#163;27.99 rate while Zen Internet and Plus Net will cut their rates, with Plus Net's lowest charge down &#163;1 to &#163;18.99.Meanwhile, under a new scheme called Community Broadband, BT says it will install ADSL lines in rural locations providing the community can find a sponsor to help pay for their introduction.www.btplc.com/Mediacentre/Archivenewsreleases/2003/nr0313.htmwww.plus.net/specialoffer.htmlwww.zen.co.uk/Default.asp?headlineid=2699Personal dataPlans to allow government departments to share information about citizens have been thrown up into the air again. The Lord Chancellor's Department last week published a consultation paper to test attitudes to the way public agencies handle personal data.The new consultation comes a year after the prime minister's Performance and Innovation Unit (PIU) launched its own consultation on allowing departments to set up data-sharing arrangements in the interests of e-government.Local authorities are among those urgently awaiting guidance on what information they can exchange between back-office systems.The consultation paper is available atwww.lcd.gov.uk/consult/confr.htm.The closing date is June 27.iPass, friendThere are now more than a thousand Wi-Fi "hotspots" that can be accessed using the same universal password system, iPass (www.ipass.com). The company was set up in 1996 to negotiate deals with local internet providers so that business travellers could connect to local services in different countries without opening separate accounts with each one. iPass users can access 30 Wi-Fi hotspots in the UK including Surf and Sip, and 18 Internet Exchange internet cafes.Pocket fillersToshiba has launched two fast Pocket PCs. The e750 Wi-Fi is a high-end machine with a 400MHz processor, built-in Wi-Fi wireless connectivity and large 3.8in TFT colour screen. It also has both Secure Digital (SD) and CompactFlash (CF-II) expansion slots, and can use PC keyboards and screens via an adaptor. It weighs 196g and costs &#163;499 including VAT. The e350 is a slim low-end model with just an SD slot. It weighs less than 150g, and costs &#163;249. It will be available from April 18.
The laws about flexible working changed last Sunday. And according to an informal poll that ran for three weeks on Microsoft's bCentral.co.uk site for business owners during March, only 20% had heard about it.The laws in question comprise the Employment Act 2002, and the changes centre around families. The main features of the act include:&#183;Parents with children under six or disabled children under 18 have the right to apply to work flexibly and employers will be obliged to take this seriously; and&#183;Maternity leave rights have increased, with statutory maternity pay increasing to &#163;100 per week, plus there are extra rights to paternity leave and adoption leave.The first point can be facilitated by IT to a large extent, mostly through the take-up of broadband and the installation of an extra phone line and PC in the employee's home. One company that has already implemented flexible working is Business Link North and Western Lancashire, which has around 64 business advisers working from home."The initial cost can be considerable," concedes IT director Martin Gore, citing the costs of computers and ISDN connections at the time: broadband has subsequently become available, bringing the cost down slightly. "We already had a lot of the communications infrastructure in the office, which made for a saving."Using an internet connection, the advisers have been able to get into the back office system through its Citrix implementation. This is a secure technology that lets remote employees into the network and keeps intruders out. "Using our virtual private network, they can use our customer relationship system as if they were here, cutting out a lot of unnecessary travelling time."The changes for employers will be as much managerial as practical. Ensuring people actually work when not on site is inevitably an issue, although not the major one a number of people think. "We have a culture of empowerment here, which means people basically do their job," says Gore. The major attitude change employers will need to make is that they will be paying for results rather than bums-on-seats time. The culture of presenteeism is likely to start looking dated very quickly.However, employers are only obliged to consider requests for flexible working rather than agree to them immediately.Belinda Lester, a solicitor in the employment law group at Sprecher Grier Halberstam LLP, points to a   number of reasons to turn people down: extra burden or additional costs, detrimental effect on the ability to meet customer demands, the inability to reorganise work among remaining staff, impacts on quality and performance and any other regulations that may be introduced.Even assuming an application to work flexibly succeeds, there are practical issues. When someone buys or agrees to rent a home, they sign a clause undertaking not to run a business from it. Using equipment for business also has an impact on whether or not it is covered in domestic insurance policies, and any public liability insurances will have to be extended to cover the employee and business visitors at their home.These are not the only issues that will need attention: some will need the power of precedents to sort them out. The onus of making the business case for home working is clearly on the employee, for example, but it is not clear who will have to pay for any extra equipment required.Many employees will have a PC, and, increasingly, will have a broadband connection, but whether these will be secure enough for most employers is another issue. And if there is extra expenditure expected from the employer, then it is unfortunate that the tax breaks through which a company could get 100% relief on ICT purchases expired on March 31.Overall, such family-friendly legislation must be welcomed in principle. There are enough devils in the detail, however, to make for an bumpy start.
