The scorecards are in. The PC market grew by 14% last year to roughly 270m units, or 760,000 a day. Hewlett-Packard cemented its position as the biggest PC manufacturer by selling about 50m machines. Taiwan's Acer continued its explosive growth, overtaking China's Lenovo for third place, while Japan's Toshiba hung on in fifth.Those are the headline numbers from the leading PC market trackers, IDC and Garner, who both released preliminary stats last week. As usual, they are not quite the same. For example, IDC reckons total PC shipments grew by 14.3% to 269m units, while Gartner reckons they grew by 13.4% to 271.2m units. But the differences are not significant.HP boss Mark Hurd has turned out to be a star, increasing worldwide sales by 30% to 50.5m units, on IDC's numbers. In 2006, HP was level with Dell; last year, it was ahead by 10m units. This year should be more of a fight. Michael Dell has responded by moving strongly into retail, signing deals with the likes of Tesco. It seems to be working.Although IDC reckons Dell's sales were down 4% in the US last year, it credits the company with 15.2% growth in the fourth quarter, and 17.1% growth worldwide.Meanwhile, two Asian giants are battling it out behind the two American giants. Lenovo boosted its US sales by taking over IBM's PC division, and last year, Acer did the same by taking over Gateway. IDC commented: "Combined Acer/Gateway growth continued to be the fastest among the top vendors."Whether this will continue is still open to doubt, but in the long term, it probably doesn't matter. The US market is in relative decline. It's becoming more important to be strong in Asia. According to Gartner, the EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) market grew by 14.7% to 92m units in 2007, while Asia Pacific grew by 18.7% to 70.7m units. By contrast, the US market grew by only 5% to 70.1m units, says IDC.The decline of the US is shown by the number of companies that used to be in the top five but are now just someone else's PC brands. These include IBM, Compaq, Gateway, Packard Bell and eMachines.The Japanese have also failed to take over the PC world the way they swept the markets for other consumer goods. Companies such as NEC, Fujitsu, Hitachi, Mitsubishi, Sony and Canon have not been helped by a declining PC market in Japan, where more than half the population does email and browsing on mobile phones (tinyurl.com/2h4wee). Still, last year, Gartner reckons Japan's PC market did grow, by 5.1% to 13.9m units.Apple has also bucked the trend, and while it is relatively weak outside North America, it has climbed back into the US top five. IDC reckons Apple's unit sales grew by 30.9% last year, and it increased its US market share by one percentage point to 5.7%. Apple has yet to release official figures, and may turn out to have done even better: it certainly has in the retail market.However, most PCs are not sold via retail stores, and it will still take Apple a while to reach Dell's current US market share of 29.6%.
Governments keep worrying about immigration and how they can prevent people from entering their countries. But while they are doing this a subtle form of exodus is taking place. People, especially early adopters, are spending more of their time conversing or doing things with people abroad, a kind of virtual migration. This is because of the explosion of social networks and a parallel phenomenon, the seemingly insatiable desire of people to spread details of their personal lives on the web to be devoured by a global audience.At one stage it looked as though the movement might be stopped in its tracks when it was revealed that potential employers and university admission staff were combing Facebook, MySpace and other social sites to learn what candidates were really like. But there has been hardly any adverse reaction and it hasn't stopped people unburdening themselves one jot. If anything, the opposite might happen: employers are more likely to say, "What sort of introvert have we got here who hasn't joined a social site?"There is no sign of it stopping. Recently I have been looking at a pre-production version ofSeesmic.com, brainchild of French entrepreneur Loic Le Meur, which is a kind of instant diary or blog, but using video rather than words. You record a video (dead easy now with the built-in webcams in most new laptops) then press a button and hey presto, anyone in the world can see it and respond.The interesting point is that, unlike blogs, there is no hiding behind nicknames. This is literally in-your-face communication. It is a near-live film of you. Anonymity is strictly for the birds. Already users are making new friends across the globe and its 20,000 early testers (and 70,000 viewers a month) are becoming part-citizens of a space beyond the geography of their own country.It reminded me that of all the new friends I have acquired in the past year (with whom I have ongoing conversations in areas of mutual interest), the majority have been in another country. I suspect this is a growing trend as a global village arrives in which people congregate on the basis of mutual interests rather than the accidental geography of where they live.Where is all this heading? I think we can already see the parameters. A lot has already been written about Apple's new devices. They are interesting because they weren't designed by a phone company so didn't presume to provide traditional baggage such as a keyboard. For Christmas I got an iPod touch (the iPhone without the camera and phone but with a host of other functions from MP3 player to easy web-access). I am still smitten by its usability - particularly, as has been noted by others, its automatic access to the nearest Wi-Fi network. At the moment this is of limited use because - quite ludicrously - most cafes and hotels charge for Wi-Fi rather than counting it as part of the infrastructure they offer (like electricity). But that will soon change. There is an Ofcom auction later this year of spectrum suitable for WiMax that will provide fast countrywide mobile broadband at speeds of up to 20 megabits per second, or even faster. That is four times faster than current computers at home and will be revolutionary not least in offering free phone calls anywhere in the world to other WiMax users.Put these two things together - an iPod touch-like screen and ubiquitous broadband Wi-Fi - and suddenly everyone in the world is linked to everyone else. For nothing. You will be able to do anything from reading your paper to meeting friends from Australia in your virtual world, from the top of a 19 bus. A hint of this convergence came this week when the childrens' virtual world,gaiaonline.com, linked up with Facebook. Will we soon be spending more of our disposable time online than we do communicating with people in real life? I wouldn't bet against it.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Can you ever consent to blackmail? Rik Ferguson of internet security solutions company Trend Micro thinks so. He's thinking of the behaviour of online billing software from Leeds-based Micro Bill Systems Ltd. Install it to view a three-day free trial of pornographic videos and, if you don't cancel in time, you'll see a popup bill window appear for increasingly longer periods each day until you pay &pound;39.99. "It's saying, 'I am going to disable your system unless you pay the money, do you agree to this?' That's really consented blackmail," says Ferguson, who hates the idea of X-rated websites shaming users into paying up.Micro Bill Systems (MBS) continues to hold this newspaper's interest. Last year (My PC is being held to ransom, March 1), we were alerted about MBS by Ted Kenyon. Two months later (Legal wrangles over porn billing software, May 31), we reported on further developments. And we've regularly heard about your problems since. Described in the company's 4,000-word terms and conditions, popup billing demanding money often catches people unawares. Now, security experts at Trend and McAfee Avert Labs have decided to speak out, despite the risk of legal retaliation from the company.'Intrusive and disturbing'"Having had several reports of people feeling victimised by the software, we decided not to let any of our customers be affected by it," Ferguson says. "They'll see a notification window informing them that what they're downloading is a trojan and disallowing them from downloading it."Toralv Dirro of McAfee Avert Labs says: "This is very intrusive and very disturbing software that prevents you from working with your computer." A blog post by another McAfee Avert Labs researcher (tinyurl.com/34zjta) last November drew a parallel with car clamping.In a test by this newspaper, 31 out of 32 anti-virus programs onVirustotal.comdetected the MBS billing software from sexxxpassport.com. Symantec labels this as a "potentially unwanted app" while McAfee brands it a "potentially unwanted program". McAfee and Trend enable the software to be removed, as does Prevx 2.0 and the Brute Force Uninstaller.Since last August, angry users finding their PCs unexpectedly disrupted (some thanks to their partner's covert porn-viewing activities) have turned to a new forum -mbsvictims.org.uk- for mutual help. It's run by professional blogger Andy Merrett and Liz, whose husband confessed when his company laptop became unusable (Legal wrangles over porn billing software, May 31, 2007). Even young children have installed the software."It's great to see the some of the big boys squaring up to MBS," Liz says. " I'd like to say how puzzled I've been by the unwillingness of AV [antivirus] providers to tackle MBS head-on." Liz also doesn't understand the attitude of West Yorkshire Trading Standards, which has had almost 600 inquiries about MBS since November 2006. "How is it that West Yorkshire Trading Standards still apparently maintain that the activity of this company is legitimate?" she says. "If they are operating within the law, then I'd expect pressure to be put on the Office of Fair Trading to tighten up the law. In the US, for example, a very similar operation was the subject of legal action to provide more protection for the consumer."She is referring to the US Federal Trade Commission's settlement with Movieland, the collective name for several companies, along with Andrew Garroni and Easton Herd, which used disruptive popup software to demand payment. The FTC required the defendants to provide a way for consumers to remove the software, barred future downloads without consumers' consent and asked for more than $500,000 (&pound;256,000) for consumer redress (tinyurl.com/25ax2x).Although MBS managing director Ashley Bateup admits to having met Andrew Garroni, he denies having any business dealings with him. Discussions did, however, take place between Bateup's co-director, Mark Webb, and Andrew Garroni three years ago. Tests carried out for this newspaper show that the billing software used by Movieland and MBS is not the same.What chance, though, of legal action here against MBS? David Lodge, of West Yorkshire Trading Standards, says that not all 600 inquiries received are "substantiated complaints" and meetings with MBS have resulted in changes to terms and conditions. "It is our opinion at this time that the company is operating within the bounds of existing legislation and as such it would be difficult to take any formal legal action against them," Lodge says.For Bateup, media scrutiny has put him under great pressure. He believes that comments made by Trend and McAfee Avert Labs are inaccurate and "could be deemed defamatory". Several companies, including Symantec, McAfee and AVG, have been contacted by MBS about interference with lawful commercial practice. MBS's solicitors also sent me a warning letter last year about information on my blog,michaelpollitt.com. More recently, Bateup spent time with Symantec trying to obtain a "100% clean bill of health" for MBS billing software."We will litigate any AV/software removal tool companies or any other company that defames our software as malware," Bateup says. Users, he explains, have no right to remove the billing software under their contracts. "We do however, recognise some elements of our business model have caused some concern to consumers."After consultations with Trading Standards and the Office of Fair Trading, Bateup says MBS will introduce changes to its software in April. This will include age verification, links to child protection software and a revised signup process. Bateup also says MBS is about to be consolidated into a "large, international technology/media company" which provides a wide range of digital media content. "MBS will cease to trade as an independent billing company in the second quarter of 2008," he says.Going mainstreamThat company, Bateup adds, hopes to develop a significant international market share by delivering content using pre-pay and post-pay billing models. It will cover video-on-demand for film labels and some TV programmes. "In addition, a novel music streaming service from a library of millions of tracks in excess of those held on iTunes will be available to consumers," Bateup says. There will also be a "late night" section.For those who consider themselves victims, the prospect of disruptive popup billing going mainstream won't be welcome. However, Bateup wants to "positively change the way" in which his software is adopted. But unless he remains vigilant about what's being downloaded and agreed to, and by who, the wider use of such controversial methods may cause even more upset.
Microsoft has just announced itssecond quarter financial results, with revenues up by 30% to $16.37 billion and operating income up by 87% to $6.48 billion. Net income reached $4.7 billion, up 79%.However, the increase in revenues would only have been 15% without a "deferral of $1.64 billion of revenue" in the same quarter last year, "due primarily to technology guarantee programs". (It hadn't shipped Vista.) Operating income would only have grown by 27%.According toThe Wall Street Journal:Sales at the client division, which makes the Windows operating system, rose 67% to $4.34 billion. In the business division, which sells Office software, sales rose 37% [to $4.81 billion] in the latest quarter. Stronger-than-expected PC sales in the December quarter - up 13.1% compared with last year, according to research group Gartner Inc. -- helped both divisions.Sales of Windows Vista "have surpassed 100 million licenses," said Microsoft.Sales in the Entertainment and Devices Division grew by just 3% to $3.06 billion but the division made a profit of $334 million, turning round a $306 million loss. Microsoft said: "We shipped 4.3 million and 6.1 million Xbox 360 consoles in the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2008, respectively, as compared to 4.4 million and 5.4 million." Xbox 360 console sales have now reached 17.7 million units.Sales in the Online Services Division grew by 38% to $863 million, with an operating loss of $245 million.CNBC commented:This is the second straight quarter that Microsoft knocked the financial cover off the ball, and shares are reflecting a simultaneous collective sigh of relief and optimism that the downtrodden tech sector might indeed be oversold.Microsoft shares reached their highest point since 2001.Reuters,The New York Timesand others also covered the story.
We don't have room inprint for all your letters and blog pingbacks, but we do here. Vulnerability auctions, next-generation broadband and Korean Linux drew particular note.. as did chip-and-pin security. Click through for the lot.SECURITY BREAKDOWN&gt;&gt; I would disagree with some aspects of this article, but I've always wondered how long the good will and openness of the vulnerability/disclosure community with vendors would last.http://corqspy.org/&gt;&gt; Ask yourself this question: why do would you think bugfinders are finding ALL of the exact same vulnerabilities that the bad guys are finding and using? There are so many vulnerabilities to choose from, the "collision" rate could easily be very low (and is low, according to security professionals who subscribe to the belief that the black hats are winning). In order to be sufficient, an explicit discovery strategy must find every vulnerability. The industry must either increase vulnerability discovery by (probably) a factor of 10x or more to even attempt to catch up with every single vulnerability ever created and being created in real-time.... or come up with new methods for protection.http://spiresecurity.typepad.com/&gt;&gt; Yes, it IS alarmist, and yet another example of computer illiteracy at The Guardian. The fact of the matter is that you can…anyone can… download and install Ubuntu and be free of this 'problem'. The fact of the matter is that writers like Sean Hargrave are a part of this 'protection racket' because they steadfastly refuse to acknowledge and spread the information that there are perfect alternatives to Winblows...http://irdial.com/blogdial/SIMPLER IS BETTER&gt;&gt; On the outside it may look like I seem to have an exceptionally good talent for creating simple, but highly functional interfaces [fortodoist.com]. This is not true, the thing I do is think a lot about interfaces and build things as simple as possible, but not simpler.http://amix.dk/blog/BROADBAND FUTURESI'd like to offer a comment in support of Michael's approach. He is quite right in his thesis – the government and the regulator have ignored those who, for the last few years, have been pointing with increasing urgency to the looming gap between the underlying need and the studied lack of provision. However, while it's usual to present that gap in terms of a social divide – Michael himself does so by quoting from the position of One Manchester –there is another concern that is arguably much more important. Unless UK businesses, of all shapes and sizes, can get access to real, affordable, reliable broadband, where and when they want it, our national economy will suffer in comparison with our competitors. But we still lack a national policy – the most recent seems to have been produced in 2005 and even then is little more than a cold collation of past efforts – and we are now seeing fragmented and seemingly uncoordinated initiatives from BERR (£30M to the RDAs and a summit meeting last November), DCSF (£3M for schools) and DCMS (speeches by the SoS urging support for our content producers). We must remember that the time lag between deciding that we ARE going to have universal access to a fibre infrastructure – which both Messrs Timms and Parnell have said we need – and its implementation is at least 5 years. By then our international competitors will be out of sight. The cost of a national fibre access network has been estimated at £15Bn; a sum of the same order as the cost of CrossRail, or the Olympics. Yet the long-term public good resulting from a fibre network would be immeasurably greater than either of those projects. Ebbsfleet is a red herring. It's too little, too late and is being used to take eyes off the ball. This organisation submiited a fairly trenchant response to the Ofcom consultation. As did others. Ofcom and government will have to duck pretty low to avoid some of those arrows. David Harrington, Leader, Regulatory Affairs, Communications Managers AssociationInteresting title as you do not mention vision in the article. The existing copper broadband network is quite sufficient for most Internet use. The only possible need for high capacity broadband is video/TV. As this provision is well provided for by other means I do not believe the lack of high capacity broadband is socially excluding or any handicap. The recent developments with radio particularly with HSPDA mean anyone with £10:00 a month can gain access to mobile broadband. Why would anyone invest in extremely an expensive fibre optic network just to be able to compete with Sky? Richard Hakes, Sheffield&gt;&gt; Rather than seeing the Internet as an engine for economic growth, creativity, innovation, and new jobs - and as the converged communications medium for the next generation - current policy is to wait for private companies to decide when investment in access makes sense for them.http://scrawford.net/blog/&gt;&gt; If there's one country where open access would make sense because of the enforced separation, it's the UK. Should BT have been the one to invest and is it for the government to say so? I don't know. One thing I do know is that the likelihood of the government investing or financing fiber rollout in the UK is next to zero, and that no one is in a position to compete with BT over the deployment of a new network. So effectively, with a tiny little announcement (come on, 10.000 homes in 3 years in a greenfield project?) BT has eased the pressure off and now everything's back to normal.http://www.fiberevolution.com/SCRABULOUS: NO FUTURE?&gt;&gt; Hasbro/Mattel dropped the ball. Some other random Indian guys picked it up. Hasbro/Mattel had no way to anticipate this need because they're stale companies with stodgy board members who have no sense of Facebook because board members are too focused on re-branding The Game of Life for the geriatric set. Now, these Scrabulous developers (who invested who knows how many hours) might have to take down one of Facebook's coolest applications. Sure these developers are making some ad revenue money based on a game with a marketing plan long financed by Hasbro...but surely Hasbro can pay these guys some R&amp;D money for striking oil where they weren't even drilling.http://vbernal.blogspot.com/POTHOLES ON THE WAYI saw Vic Keegan's method for getting holes in the road fixed. I had the same problem last week, also, the gravel from the pothole had blocked an adjacent street drain. So, I did something even more revolutionary than click on "fix my street .com". I phoned Lancashire County Council and the nice lady there sent some guys with shovels to fill the hole and a couple more blokes with a giant "vacuum cleaner" sucked the drain clear. What did you think "fixmystreet" does ? Stefan Sliwinski, Rossendale&gt;&gt; welovelocal.com has always aimed to nurture online communities that hold a real and relevant place in the physical world.The site sees people from different areas encouraging others to shop locally, or try a particular local service, all through the words they write in reviews. Mixing new ideas and technology with the age old idea of 'word of mouth' creates a great local community resource.http://www.welovelocal.com/blog/APPLE OF THE TV?Charles Arthur says "Jobs also showed off new versions of the Apple TV, which with a free software update can play back the rented films without a separate computer. It now has 40GB or 120GB hard drives, and Apple dropped the price, which now starts at £199". This is almost entirely incorrect. It's actually 40gb and 160gb and neither are new to market. The price has always started at £199 and the price drop announced by Steve Jobs DOES NOT APPLY to the UK or Europe. You missed an interesting story there. Apple screws its European customers yet again. Furthermore, even though Apple TV will be almost twice the price in the UK, there is no date set for the rental service to start. Darren Anderson, LondonYou report "Steve Jobs has unveiled the Macbook Air, which is just three quarters of an inch deep, at Macworld in San Francisco. " Now, I'm nearly 30 and I have no concept of what 3/4 of an inch is. Perhaps it might be better to use 1.94cm as their website does. Or "just under 2cm". I can imagine 2cm; 3/4 of an inch I really can not. We went metric in the 70s! Jennifer Marshall, BirminghamKOREAN LINUXI've been wondering when something like this was going to happen - actually I was thinking it would have been one of the Nordic countries. The power of an entire country 'moving' to a free linux OS will have an enormous effect on the Windows platform. Creating the 'groundswell' or momentum to deliver paid support, additional applications, drivers and 'acceptance' can be easily delivered by a single committed government effort to move to linux and as we know governments that are prepared to 'plan' and not just worry about the next general election are the ones that can drive real change.http://deancollinsblog.blogspot.com/&gt;&gt; Peace, love, and Linux? Maybe. Maybe not. But it's very cool to see the two governments collaborating on IT, if little else.http://blogs.cnet.com/&gt;&gt; I've outlined in great detail on this blog, the cost of monoculture, and update on the cost of monoculture in Korea, detailing the unique situation South Korea is in with respect to their encryption cipher used only in South Korea for secure transactions over the Internet, and how it requires both Microsoft Windows as well as Internet Explorer. Thus, when all of these new North Korean Hana Linux Internet users decide to try to make any secure transaction with any South Korean web service which requires the SEED cipher and the Active-X control that SEED must be paired with, they'll be sadly denied access.http://blog.mozilla.com/gen/CARTORRENTEr, what about Dash? It's a peer-to-peer network for traffic info that has already gone on sale in the US with first units due to be shipped next month. Max (no details given)&gt;&gt; Of course, many of us realize what CarTorrent really is: a means for cars to eventually assemble into a giant Megatron and destroy all of mankind (pending oil prices stay in check).http://www.ipodexpress.net/&gt;&gt; I think that Jeff can confirm that I came up with this idea over a year ago. I even have it written down in my idea notebook!http://www.sscneelix.com/&gt;&gt; Wow, straight out of Cory Doctorows Eastern Standard tribe, the future is now.http://www.al4ie.com/&gt;&gt; The problem, as Mr. Gerla sees it? The desperate search for the best beach. Yup, millions of Americans are right now frantically driving in all directions, on their way to a "beach resort" but chewed up with anxiety that they might not get to the best beach at the resort. Probably the wife is complaining "Milton, you schmuck, why can't we go to the best beach? Don't I deserve the best? And the kids? Find it, Milton, or start counting out the alimony". (I think this scene works well if you envisage Bette Midler and Woody Allen as husband and wife).http://goruislip.blogspot.com/BARCAMP OUR DATA&gt;&gt; What license you can obtain from OPSI [the Office of Public Sector Information] for PSI [public sector information] depends on two things; 1) whether the information was collected as part of 'core' government activities and 2) whether you are a commercial entity. The license is only freely reusable if the answers are 'yes' and 'no'. On the first question, Michael Cross of the Free Our Data campaign made a good point: Should the government be in the business of creating value added data products at all?http://wwmm.ch.cam.ac.uk/blogs/FISHIER CHIPSAs a former IT security consultant, I raised an eyebrow recently when I received an unexpected reminder of my PIN as well as a replacement for a defective credit card. I share Matt Langley's concern (Technology Letters, January 10). I'd always assumed that PINs were stored under one-way encryption on banks' computers, as is usual for logon passwords. Passwords stored this way can only be checked, not retrieved. There are many possible technical and operational reasons - none insurmountable in my opinion - why at least some banks make it possible to retrieve PINs from their systems. I suspect the main problem is that, if, instead, a bank issued a new PIN when one was forgotten, this would differ from the one stored in the chip on the card, which could then not be used successfully the next time a chip reader tried to authenticate the card without contacting the bank (as described in "Has chip-and-pin failed to foil fraudsters?", January 3). But allowing PINs to be retrieved creates security weaknesses, especially when combined with operational sloppiness, such as sending out unnecessary PIN reminders. The banks and credit card suppliers need to improve their security procedures and stop putting all the onus on customers and blaming them every time something goes wrong. Online banking transactions and card not present internet purchases should require the entry of one-time passwords provided by a challenge-response device. Simpler measures could also reduce the impact of fraud. Perhaps the banks could text and/or email customers immediately after transactions of certain types (e.g. if the magnetic strip is used to verify the card) - or even all of them. Tim Joslin, Cambridge
We thought it was dead, crushed to pieces beneath the twisted wreckage of Bo Stefan Eriksson's Ferrari Enzo (the whole storyhere). Butaccording to Eurogamer, Gizmondo - the handheld gaming platform with built-in GPS - is being exhumed. The company's European director Carl Freer, the one who wasn't sent to prison for embezzlement, has teamed up with UK electronics design firmPlextekto get things rolling again."The only reason Gizmondo was not a success last time round was it was not fully brought into the market," said Freer, ignoring the considerable competition from the Nintendo DS and Sony PSP, which would have surely made life difficult for the platform if it had hung around long enough. Launched in March 2005, it enjoyed barely a year on the shelves before Gizmondo Europewent into liquidation.No news yet on when the system will re-emerge, or whether the specs will be updated.UPDATE:Swedish journalist and blogger Hans Sandberg has been in touch to inform us that he's carried out an exclusive interview with Gizmondo exec Carl Freer about the return of Gizmondo. He has translated part of the interview into english and the text can be foundhere. Freer promises to release a new version of the console with a widescreen by Christmas 2008. He claims to be in discussions with network operators who may offer the device for free with certain mobile phone tariffs.Of course, Gizmondo is not the first gaming platform to rise, Lazarus-like from a seemingly eternal slumber - as this hastily assembled list 'proves'...Three other gaming platforms that rose, Lazarus-like from a seemingly eternal slumberAtari 2600Originally launched in 1977, Atari's wood-paneled legend was re-released as the budget-conscious Atari 2600 jr in 1986, with a newer, modernised chassis. More recently, we saw theAtari Classics 10-in-1 TV Game, which reconstructed the machine into a single joystick. The Intellivision and Megadrive were among machines similarly re-animated by US firmJakks Pacific.ZX SpectrumThis is a bit cheaty as it's strictly an emulation, but the rubber-keyed eighties computer discovered a new lease of 'life' as a key feature of theAmstrad Em@iler Plus. The ungainly device, a follow-up to the original Amstrad Em@iler, combined a chunky phone with an email client and qwerty keyboardplusthe ability to play classic Speccy games. How could it possible have failed?Game BoyRe-invented more times than David Bowie, the Game Boy has never really died, just continually transmogrified. Game Boy Pocket, Game Boy Light, Game Boy Color, Game Boy Advance, Game Boy Advance SP, Game Boy Micro... It has recently been revived again, unofficially, as a handheld solar-powered emulator, which runs Game Boy, Game Boy ColorandNES ROMs. More infohere.Can you think of any others? I started this list at about nine o'clock last night, certain I'd come up with loads. Then I stalled.
It's theApple Macintosh's 24th birthday today, 24 January 1984. (Oops. Yes, 24th, not 20th. I blame it on a Y2K bug in mySteampunk calculator.) I'll wait for Jack to call me an Apple fanboy for mentioning it. ; )The first Macintosh, theMacintosh 128k(that's 128k as in RAM) moved along at 8Mhz and came with a single 3.5-inch floppy drive and a 9-inch black-and-white monitor and sold for $2,500. It was under-powered and didn't really have enough memory to run much more than the OS. The 'Fat Mac' with its 512k of RAM came out that September and helped alleviate some, but not all, of the performance issues.Today, GUIs are the norm, but in 1984, most people used the command line of MS-DOS. I first used a Mac in 1990. After someone explained how to point-and-click to open folders and documents and to launch programmes, I was away and using it in 10 minutes. I could hardly say that of MS-DOS computers, even though I had used them for years.I still have a Mac SE30 with 128MB of RAM that I look forward to taking out of storage as soon as I live somewhere with enough room. It's the computer that I wrote many of my university papers on, and I still find writing on it to be a joy. The original 'toaster Macs' were such a different experience than using other computers of the day. I've tried to explain it differently, but all I can say is that it was more intimate.It wasn't the first computer I used. That distinction would probably go to a Commodore Vic 20, and my family had a TRS-80 Model III at home. What were you using in 1984?For your entertainment, I've included a trailer from an upcoming documentary: MacHeads the Movie. (Thanks toScott Beale at Laughing Squidfor pointing it out.)Macheads - the movie (trailer)technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:Macintosh,birthdaytechnorati tags end
Fake Steve Jobs just gave IBM's Lotus Notes a bit of akicking, observing:Putting Notes on iPhone is like getting out a piece of exquisite Wedgwood china and using it to serve a steaming pile of dog shit. Have you ever seen Notes? It's not software, it's a form of punishment. Companies that use Notes have to staff not only a help desk but also a suicide prevention center -- it's that bad. Even the poor bastards at IBM, who are forced to use it, do nothing but complain.True, but it's only the people unfortunate enough to have to use Notes who loath it. At least some of the ones who make it and sell it think it's wonderful. (There are people who love rat poison, on the same basis.) So there's been an attempt at a backlash on the Fake Steve blog.Ed Brill -- who is or was a senior Lotus executive/sales droid -- has also hit back (inFake Steve Jobs says I am a "marketing f*cktard") by pointing to a 1998 article in Forbes magazine (The decline and fall of Lotus) written by one Daniel Lyons, the "real" Fake Steve.This is taking things far too seriously for IBM's own good. How many FSJ readers are actually potential Notesbuyers? How many of those would take it literally?It's hard to tell how well Brill is doing given that comments have been deleted or removed from his blog. However, we alreadyknowthat there aremanymore people who hate Notes than work forLoutsLotus. It's a standing joke. Get over it. This is not a fight Lotus can win.You can understand Lotus's position (sic), but taking on a satirical site is not really a smart move. Taking on end users like Rod Boothby -- who ended up describing Lotus Notes asThe Asbestos of Enterprise IT-- is not smart either: it just increases the level of publicity via posts like this. But if users didn't think your product was crap, Ed, you wouldn't have a problem.....
In 2000 Jonathan Goodwin, a self-described "gearhead", bought his first Hummer, an old H1, in Denver, Colorado. "The thing did eight miles to the gallon and nought to 60 in about two days," he recalls. On his drive home to Wichita, Kansas, it broke down three times. The first morning home with it, he decided to run the Hummer through the pond behind his house. "It was supposed to be waterproof," he says. This one wasn't. He hit the water at 50mph and turned his new vehicle into a submarine. The engine died.Quest for powerRather than fix the engine, he replaced it with a new Duramax diesel and doubled the fuel economy to 20 miles per US gallon (equivalent to 24 miles per Imperial gallon), tripled the horsepower to 600 and quadrupled the torque to 1,200ft lbs. Driven by his quest for more power and less consumption he had inadvertently stumbled across a solution for America's SUV-loving masses. The byproduct of the system he installed is lower emissions - a greener output for these thirsty beasts. "Now we can have our cake and eat it," he says.Today Goodwin drives a green Hummer H2 that he transformed from a 325hp, 10mpg gasbucket into a 500hp, 25mpg, 900ft lbs of torque white-knuckle ride, using the Duramax 6.6 litre engine that he runs on biodiesel - in this case, B100 canola oil. In addition, with the systems he has designed, the engine will run on multiple types of vegetable oil, CNG (LPG) or hydrogen. With basic conversion costs starting at around $27,000 (&pound;14,000) it's not for the budget commuter, but with the double jackpot of increased power and greater efficiency he's not short of orders as co-founder of SAE Energy, which works at the forefront of alternative fuel research. He has transformed gas-guzzling SUVs into fuel-efficient high-performance green machines and is now converting vintage autos to biodiesel and electric hybrids for the likes of California governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and rock legend Neil Young.What Goodwin managed will become increasingly important to carmakers in the US, where the Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) bill means on average a company's cars must manage at least 35 miles per US gallon by 2010. Mercedes Benz was recently hit with a record $30m fine for only managing 24.8mpg, short of the 2006 limits of 27.5mpg.Goodwin's take on the struggling Detroit car industry is typically straightforward: he feels the American carmakers should be fighting for their lives. "It would be so easy to take a well-established auto company and turn it cutting-edge. The technology already exists, it's just off-the-shelf parts - not rocket science." He feels CAFE's increase in standards is too low: he would set it at 60mpg. Some new cars already exceed that: the new VW Polo Diesel will run at 74mpg.Two years ago, en route to SEMA, the annual Specialty Equipment Market Association show, he woke up at the hotel to find the Hummer he'd converted surrounded by people. They asked if it had been converted to run on biodiesel and wanted to hear it run. It was so smooth that they didn't believe it was until they noticed the fan was on. Then they introduced themselves as engineers from GM. "They told us that this couldn't possibly work," he says. Last year, GM produced a line of H2s using the same Duramax engine.The delivery company UPS recently consulted Goodwin on solutions for its fleet's astronomical costs. He estimates that switching its vehicles to a biofuel/gas-hybrid system could save more than $1 (51p) per gallon used, reduce their emissions and provide greater longevity to the engines."It's difficult for these huge companies. The technology is there to make cars that have vastly improved consumption figures already, but they're driven by the need to sell all the cars they currently make," Goodwin says. "If they announced they were bringing out a 100mpg car then no-one would buy the old line, leaving the industry stranded with millions of cars, so they introduce the change slowly. The situation is ripe for a smaller firm to take advantage of."Goodwin sees three stages to a process of change: converting all autos to diesel which can then run on biofuel, making the step to bio-electric and finally to hydroelectric, meaning cars will run on water.His approach to being on the cutting edge of fuel-efficient technology is not your average chief executive's. "I rarely read any magazines, instruction manuals, watch TV or research on the internet. I feel that if I did it would inhibit my way of thinking and by not doing so it leaves my mind open to all possibilities. If I want to see how something works I take it apart and break it, then I put it back together and I know how it ticks." Nothing is written down and no plans or drawings are made; it's all worked out in his head. He's often to be found on the phone, bouncing around different ideas with whoever is on the other end.These days the person calling is often Neil Young, for long discussions on the constantly changing brief for his1959 Lincoln Continental. The original plan was to install a biodiesel engine but Goodwin keeps pushing the envelope.After, the goldrushEncouraged by Young to "go for it", a plan was hatched to convert the car to what he calls a Series Hybrid, using an electric motor driven by a biodiesel-powered turbine. It runs on the same principle as a diesel locomotive: as the car is driven, the turbine generates excess power which is stored in capacitor batteries. When they're fully charged the turbine cuts out and the batteries kick in. This is capable of cutting fuel consumption and emissions by an estimated 50%. "We're hoping to break the 100mpg barrier on this baby," Goodwin says. Young's production company is filming the process.Goodwin is talking to a leading carmaker about production of a line of biodiesel cars that his company, Marquee, will oversee the engine work on. His ultimate goal is to build a multipurpose vehicle that can be amphibian, off-road, sports and urban - the car for every situation.He has come a long way since he first drove his Hummer into the pond. Or has he? "I was four years old my first time behind the wheel, in the family pickup we used for working on the farm. Mum and Dad were on the back throwing out the feed for the cattle and they told me to just lock my arms and keep it straight," he recalls. And what happened next? "I drove into a buffalo wallow, straight into the drink," he laughs.
Cartoon fromGeek And PokeEver had the feeling that a ghostly cartoonist was standing right behind you? If you are not already a follower of Oliver Widder's Geek and Poke cartoons andblog, then I recommend you get on his case. He's probably on yours.A recent classic wasTwittering Your Life, which skewers at least half a million people in three simple frames. He's also very good on Web 2.0,Facebook,Google,programmingand the IT consultancy business, among other things.
The Asus Eee minibook PC has gone on sale in Japan running the Microsoft Windows XP Home Edition instead of the Linux with which it shipped last year. According toThe Register, "Asus is bundling the Eee with a 4GB SDHC card, allowing Asus to claim the 4G-X comes with 8GB of storage. Buyers also get an optical mouse. It'll also be offered with free access to NTT's WiFine hotspot network."The price is ¥50,000 ($468/£239/€320).One issue yet to be resolved is the processor speed. El Reg says:The unit contains an Intel Celeron M processor rated at 900MHz. Windows XP running on Western Eee PCs usually notes the CPU is actually clocked at 630MHz. It's not yet clear which of these two clock speeds the Japanese model's chip actually runs at.The Asus isveryslow when running Linux out of Flash memory. I'd want hands-on experience with Windows before buying one, but at the price, it's probably good enough for email, word processing and Freecell, and I always liked Civilization for DOS....Incidentally, Howard Industries is already offering a Windows version in the US as theHoward EEEPC, but at a much higher price: $657.72. This comes running "Microsoft® Windows XP Professional with SP2 (Windows Vista Business Downgrade)". In other words, you've paid for Vista but Howard has exercised your downgrade rights to XP SP2... And Microsoft will be happy as it gets to count it as a Vista sale.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
While Microsoft and Sony squabble over second place Nintendo has announced European sales figures for the Wii and DS. As of Jan 2008 Nintendo has sold over 20 million DS units and over 6 million Wii's. The biggest selling Wii title has been Wii Play, unsurprising considering it was basically a ploy to sell another controller. Super Mario Galaxy (1.3 million) and Twilight Princess (1.3 million) are the next in line. The awful Mario Party 8 has sold a million too, which proves that Nintendo's gaming icons have still got huge appeal. Well, certainly to the 1 in 6 Wii owners we can roughly deduce to be the traditional gaming audience.DS sales figures are a little less predictable with Brain Training - the title I assumed to have been the biggest seller due to its omnipresence in the charts - actually being outsold by Nintendogs. Anyway, the figures in full are:Product Total European Cumulative Sales to date (Sell through estimate as of beg Jan 2008)Wii console: Over 6 million units Wii Play: 2.3 million units The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess 1.3 million units Mario Party 8: 1 million units Super Mario Galaxy: 1.3 million unitsNintendo DS: 20 million units Dr Kawashima's Brain Training: How Old Is Your Brain?: 5 million units More Brain Training From Dr Kawashima: How Old Is Your Brain?: 2.8 million units Nintendogs: 8 million units
When can people in the UK start renting films from Apple?Sometime this year. And we have that from the horse's mouth, though we're sure the spokesperson at Apple didn't mean to be disparaging about Steve Jobs by referring to him in that way. But it was indeed he who said it, at 9.42am in last week's Macworld keynote that movie rentals will go international "later this year".Yes, but when this year? The first half of the year? Second half? Third quarter? Fourth quarter? Alas, on that point Apple's people become more like the Magic 8-Ball, a toy which answers questions with gnomic responses such as "Answer uncertain, try again later".But as the New York Times pointed out on Monday, the idea that Europe is a happy integrated whole is illusory when it comes to content rights (tinyurl.com/2e2xlc). The problem of setting up cross-border services, with films which may have different release schedules, are myriad. France, for example, sometimes gets US-made films ahead of the UK so their prints can have subtitles added; the UK gets the US prints when they finish their American cinema runs. With other films, there is no delay between the US and UK release.Viviane Reding, the European commissioner who oversees media issues, say she wants a structure in place by June that would simplify content sales across borders in Europe; part of that would be to encourage rights holders including film studios to offer "multiterritory" licences.Apple's biggest threat though could be the companies already in the market. Sky, BT, Virgin and Tiscali all offer pay-per-view or rental films and have millions of customers. Apple, though, needs people to buy an Apple TV (whose price hasn't been reduced, unlike the US). Try again later, indeed.Never mind the US, how is Second Life's economy doing?Well, people aren't throwing themselves out of windows, except to navigate around it, but things aren't that rosy in the world of Linden either. Last month AOL shuttered its 10-month-old portal in the virtual world, saying: "We've gained a lot of insight from our participation in Second Life and we're now refocusing our efforts in virtual worlds." In other words, sayonara.Wells Fargo has also moved out, and meanwhile there was a scramble in the financial services sector within Second Life ahead of Tuesday's deadline, after which "unlicensed" banks - those not licensed by a real-world government - would be shut down. It's a classic way to engineer a run on a bank, and that's what has happened, according to the Reuters reporter stuck in Second Life. (His name there? Eric Reuters.) He reported on one case, Steve Smith (whose Second Life name is Travis Ristow) of BCX Bank, who saw deposits shrink from 11.5m Linden dollars (US$42,600, &pound;21,730) to L$5m (US$18,500) in a week. "We have limited daily withdrawals while we reorganise," Smith said. "Customers can withdraw L$2,000 per day - we can meet all deposits as long as we don't have to liquidate all assets immediately."The imposition of regulation followed the disappearance of Ginko Financial, a Second Life bank that vanished five months ago - taking about L$50m ($187,000) with it. (Its web page atginkofinancial.comnow talks woundedly of "converting ... all customer deposits into a tradeable debt security called Ginko Perpetual Bonds". Have they been watching Alastair Darling and Northern Rock?)Worried that other "banks" might just be fronts for pyramid schemes paying big interest rates (Ginko "paid" 44%) directly from investors' deposits in order to attract more money and abscond, Linden Lab cracked the whip. While the virtual people of Second Life didn't have to queue in the rain, they have definitely been fretting about their money.You don't need money to take part in Second Life, though it helps, since without it you can't buy property or clothes.Meanwhile despite the free entry, the raw statistics for Second Life participation aren't that encouraging. Usage (measured in the total number of hours people used it) fell by 5% from October to November, having also dropped very slightly in August; the latter marked the first time Second Life had seen a reduction in total hours spent in the metaverse.But the Linden blog last week offered a rosy picture (tinyurl.com/yq46th) of economic growth in the fourth quarter, with a graph with a jolly red arrow suggesting that the only way is up. Except that peak usage and "concurrency" both maxed out in October. Oh dear: isn't anywhere thriving?
Searching the web is harder than it looks and more political than it seems. Those are some of the lessons being learned from the alpha launch of Wikia Search (alpha.search.wikia.com), a so-called social search engine. Although by no means the first attempt at heavily involving humans in ordering search results (some notable examples areChaCha.comandMahalo.com), it has generated the most publicity.But its much-hyped debut received savage criticism from many quarters. A write-up atTechCrunch.comcalled it "one of the biggest disappointments I've had the displeasure of reviewing" (tinyurl.com/yw4zko), while an evaluation atSearchEngineLand.comsaid it's "another crappy search service that may, potentially, if all goes well, eventually turn into something useful".Wikia is a startup company backed by $14m (&pound;7m) of venture capital, formed by several high-level people involved with Wikipedia, notably co-founder Jimmy Wales. Although the for-profit Wikia and nonprofit Wikipedia have no significant financial connection, the extraordinary publicity garnered by Wikipedia works to give Wikia a tremendous marketing boost.Wikia's business is based around the commercial exploitation of, politely, "community", and less politely, the unpaid labour of digital sharecroppers. In the same way Wikipedia is in part built by harnessing popular envy and resentment against the status of academics, Wikia's search project is trying to draw on the fear and doubt stemming from the dominance of Google.The overall dynamics are much more complex than the superficial idea of Wikia Search being a Google killer. At a deeper level, there's a powerful quasi-populist appeal in presenting a commercial undertaking as a rebellion against authority or an anti-monopolist effort. Wikia has managed to shift many search engine expenses on to others by using arguments of public interest in a "transparent" search system. These ideas have motivated partnership with a nonprofit organisation, the Internet Software Consortium, to have ISC support some of the infrastructure for a search engine.While in theory that particular infrastructure will be open and available to all, it's safe to say that framing search as a public good has been good for Wikia's bottom line. It's not quite the case that, as a wag might jest, a charity has made a substantial donation to a venture capital-backed startup. Moreover, there's an intrinsic tension between the needs of a corporation, and attempts to have an open process. For example, several months ago Wikia made much of acquiring a distributed Web crawler named Grub from LookSmart. The press release (tinyurl.com/2urdbx) stated: "By combining Grub, which is building a massive, distributed user-contributed processing network, with the power of a wiki to form social consensus, the open source Search Wikia project has taken the next major step towards a future where search is open and transparent."But financial disclosures that LookSmart was required to file with the US Securities and Exchange Commission revealed: "The URL for Grub and certain source code were sold for $50,000" (although in 2003, LookSmart had bought Grub for a "total consideration of $1.3m, consisting of $0.6m cash payment ... [and] stock valued at $0.7m"). This small price may not have given the full picture, as at the same time Wikia and LookSmart alsoentered into an arrangementover advertising sales.But even considering that other factors might have been involved, the very low valuation indicated that it was certainly not much in terms of competitive search technology. It added credence to a viewpoint expressed by some technical experts that Grub was plagued with problems. The imperatives of marketing led Wikia to talk up the program's quality, while the relevant open and transparent information came only as a result of a government mandate. The sociopolitical role of search engines will generate more discussion in the future. But we should guard against some of the less savoury politics it can entail, such as the commodification of discontent and attempts at corporate co-option.sethf.com/infothought/blog
I have a new laptop running Windows Vista and want to transfer files and programs from my present PC, which runs XP SP2. I assume that a cable will be necessary to connect the two machines. Should I run both machines for a while to familiarise myself with Vista? I also intend staying with my current ISP and understand that I will need some help from them to enable the service on my new laptop.Geoff CadmanThere are several programs traditionally used to migrate between PCs. The main ones include Eisenworld's Aloha Bob PC Relocator Ultra Control (which can move programs) and Detto's cheaper IntelliMover (which can't). Microsoft helped by adding a Files and Settings Transfer Wizard to the System Tools folder in Windows XP.Today, your best bet is Vista's built-in Windows Easy Transfer, which is based on Aloha Bob. However, to move programs, you will also need to download theWindows Easy Transfer Companion (Beta)from Microsoft. The Vista team has produced astep-by-step guideto using WET, while Windows Networking.com provides awalkthroughwith many more screen grabs. Note that some programs, such as antivirus software and firewalls, should not or cannot be moved.Windows Easy Transfer and other products can transfer files via various cables, a network or by writing the data to an external hard drive or a CD. Some companies now market USB cables to do the job, such as Belkin's Easy Transfer Cable for Windows Vista. Microsoft allows suppliers to include its transfer software on a CD.I don't think Vista requires much familiarisation for XP users, since you can handle the unfamiliar bits by using the numerous built-in help routines. Also, if there are elements you don't like, you can often revert to a more XP-like way of doing things by selecting Classic mode. CNet TV has a short video,Make Windows Vista look like XP. For forward-looking users, the same CNet reporter has doneTurn XP into Vista for free.Vista does not require any setting up for an internet connection, and ISP software is best avoided: just plug into a standard Ethernet router. If you have the misfortune to use a USB modem, it would be better to junk it. Vista always prefers to use the latest IPv6 version of the Internet Protocol, but if that causes problems, you can set it to prefer IPv4 (Configuration guide).
I have a 1.6Ghz PowerMac G5 running Mac OS 10.3.9, with 250MB of memory. I am tempted to upgrade to Tiger or Leopard because of the extra advantages with iPhoto and email.Peter MedhurstThe new iLife 08 (which includes iPhoto) requires OS X 10.4.9 (Tiger) or later, and that's a paid upgrade, so you might as well buy Leopard (10.5.x) for about £80. That includes email, but you will have to pay for iLife (about £55). You will also need more memory, and adding a gigabyte or more would speed up your PC. Go to the Crucial website (crucial.com/uk/mac), which will analyse your Mac and suggest memory upgrades: you can still buy the chips somewhere else if you want, though I've been happy with Crucial upgrades. But bear in mind that Apple has moved to Intel chips, so PowerPC-based systems like yours are on the way out.
I am a disabled oldie who is now unable to tolerate certain sorts of screen movement, flashing lights, etc. My BT Yahoo! mailbox has an advert for an (otherwise admirable) cancer charity which persistently flashes down to obscure my emails. Is there any way of cutting this stuff out?Theresa Levell ClarkeThere are two simple solutions to this. First, you could switch to the Firefox 2 browser and install AdBlock Plus (adblockplus.org/en/installation) extension, which will cut out the ads. Second, you could switch to Gmail, which doesn't have flashing adverts and also works well with Internet Explorer. I'd suggest you do both.Backchat: Richard Morton, a web accessibility specialist, says: "Contact Yahoo and ask them to remove flickering images from their web pages. Remind them that it is their duty under the Disability Discrimination Act to make reasonable adjustments for people with disabilities."They may well not want to stop running this type of advert but a perfectly reasonable adjustment would be to switch to text or non-flickering adverts for users based on their preferences. Online email systems generally have options for things like number of messages appearing on a page so this wouldn't be difficult. If they still won't make changes then it could be seen by a court as discrimination, especially given the size of the organisation.David Stallard says: "Had you considered recommendingIE7Profor use with Internet Explorer 7? This is a free add-on which works in a similar way to Adblock Plus, and includes a number of useful features like mouse gestures, spell checker and many more." I didn't mention IE7Pro because I didn't know about it, but I'm testing it now.
After a disastrous data loss, I'm using an external hard drive to back up all my data. Is there software, preferably free, that will only copy new files? I've looked through the Ask Jack site but can't find an obviously similar query!Steve BallantyneIt's a frequently asked question and you can find some previous answers by searching Ask Jack for Centred System'sSecond Copy, which costs $29.95.An excellent alternative isKaren's Replicator, which is free for personal use.Acronis True Image 11 Homeis also worth a look because it's very good at copying an entire PC ("drive imaging") and has a "just testing" mode with roll-back features. It's good value at £27.48 (at Amazon.co.uk).Backchat: William Hudson and others point out that Microsoft has a freeSyncToythat does the job. Colin Hall suggestsMozy, David Brinicombe suggests Lionmax'sCompare and Backup, and Allan Jones suggestsAJC Directory Synchroniser. Windows Vista has a powerful built-in utility, Robocopy (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robocopy).
The US internet networking group Cisco has joined the growing buzz around a home networking technology called "femtocells" with an investment in a Cambridge-based company, ip.access.Intel has also invested in the firm, which is one of a number of businesses whose equipment is being tested by mobile phone companies including T-Mobile, O2 and Vodafone.Google has invested in a rival femtocell business called Ubiquisys, based in Swindon, which intends to manufacture its products in a former Sony plant in south Wales. The US mobile phone chip group Qualcomm, meanwhile, is an investor in the Nasdaq-listed Airvana, which also has its research base in Cambridge.A femtocell is essentially a very low-powered mobile phone base station, which consumers can place in their home. When connected to a broadband line, it can allow a mobile user to make free calls while at home from their existing handset.Several mobile companies - such as O2, Orange and Vodafone - have already launched  residential broadband products and a femtocell would enable them to differentiate their net-access offerings from those of companies such as Sky, BT or Carphone Warehouse's TalkTalk.The technology removes the need for consumers to buy mobile phones with existing short-range wireless technologies such as wi-fi and Bluetooth as femtocells use existing mobile phone technology.The technology also paves the way for new services, such as easy transfer of music and pictures to and from mobiles."If you have a broadband TV service at home, for instance, you could have catch-up TV programmes downloaded on to your phone," according to Will Franks, Ubiquisys' founder. "The box knows you're at home and could load the programmes you have missed on to your phone overnight."Working parents could also be notified of the return of their children after school as the femtocell would pick up their mobile signal when they come home and send an email or text alert, according to ip.access's chief executive, Stephen Mallinson."Right now, everyone's in a trial phase, evaluating the technology with pilots and network trials," he said. "Towards the back-end of the year we expect companies to start pushing out services to customers, but the big jump will be in 2009."Cisco's investment, to be announced today, will give it a minority stake in ip.access and give the company a cash injection to help it fund development.Several big telecoms equipment companies such as Alcatel-Lucent and China's Huawei are also developing femtocell technology.Airvana's head of business development, Paul Callahan, is blunt about its potential, saying: "We have bet the company on it." Not all the businesses chasing what could be the next big thing in consumer networking, however, will share the spoils, he reckons: "This is going to be a really tough market ... a street fight; it's a high-volume consumer business."
While social networking sites have achieved huge growth in the UK over the past year, networks are coming under increasing pressure to provide a safe and secure and environment for their young users.In a survey published today by the popular teen site Piczo, which offers creative tools to help users customise their profile pages, users said they felt safer online than they did this time last year, despite what many feel are increased safety risks.There have been high profile concerns over bullying and stalking on social networking sites where users post personal information.Piczo's European managing director, Chris Seth, said online safety falls into two areas; access and monitoring."Safety has always been a big part of our make-up. The site is invitation only and with no search facility, which means people can only connect with people they know. They can be more expressive and creative because they are communicating with their real friends," he said."That's important for stakeholders like advertisers, too, because they all want to make it a safer place. The fact that there is no search is the single biggest measure the site can take, because there is no opportunity for predators."He said Piczo, which claims more than 10m unique users each month, has worked with the Silicon Valley start-up Keibi on the development of monitoring software. This is used in combination with a team of 20 safety officers, who check random pages and also monitor the site for blacklisted keywords and phrases, aided by scanning software.Despite similar initiatives from all the major social networking sites, which are making contributions to a government review of internet safety, Piczo found that only 36% of users would report bullying online and only 35% would stop that person contacting them again.Bebo, which was used by some of the young people involved in the "internet chain"suicides in South Wales, would not comment on the the wider issues of online safety but released a statement pointing to the wellbeing platform it launched in December.Bebo has a core user base of teenagers and has been keen to push its online safety policies, hiring web safety expert Dr Rachel O'Connell in 2006."The loss of any young life is always distressing," said Bebo in a statement."We will work closely with the authorities to provide any assistance which will help them with their investigations. We have close relationships with our member community, law enforcement agencies, and public safety partners to provide support and advice for our users. We are committed to providing our members with the safest possible environment online."The site has worked with the Samaritans counselling service to identify groups at risk and promote support services on the site. Spokesman Anthony Langan said the charity was able to do more outreach work by partnering Bebo."Teenagers are one of the most 'at risk' groups and increasingly use the internet to access advice from support services which they may be less inclined to seek through other routes. Suicide is an issue for society as a whole; the internet provides a window into the issues young people are dealing with."Stephen Balkam, chief executive of the Family Online Safety Institute, said a major development had been the talks between MySpace and the US attorney generals announced last week."They have been a lot of pressure on MySpace, and on Facebook, to improve the safety of their sites and keep the youngest kids off the sites."He said children frequently use these sites, even though the minimum age is supposed to be 14 on MySpace and 13 on Bebo. MySpace has now agreed to set up a taskforce that will look at tools and technologies that will improve online safety."We've always thought of this area as a three-legged stool: the government should promote dialogue, the industry should lead on self-regulating tools and the not-for-profit groups should keep up the pressure," said Balkam.
Dave Sifry of Technorati hasn't quite received the usual attention for his latest quarterly "state of the blog nation" missive to the world. Time was when we hung breathless to see just how many blogs were out there and how much deathless prose and poetry was being unleashed on the world.But now? The lack of attention is possibly because Technorati hasn't quite set the real world on fire - nor been bought by a bigger company - as perhaps he would have hoped. (Though we still use it every week to track pingbacks on Tech stories. It's good stuff.)But now BusinessWeek has beentalking to him again, to see what the latest take is. The remarkable thing is the amount of spam.Back when we wrote the cover story [in 2005], there were some 9 million blogs, with about 40,000 new ones popping up each day. Now, says Sifry, Technorati indexes 112 million blogs, with 120,000 new ones appearing each day. And that'snotincluding spam blogs. [My emphasis - CA] They were barely on the horizon in spring of '05, and now they account for — get this — well over 99% of all the pings and updates pouring into Technorati's servers.99%. That's a lot of junk floating around. Even more than email spam, it's easy to create splogs - and easy to use Google's AdSense to make money from them,as we've explained before. The question is, do the advertisers have any control over their appearance on these useless sites? Do they pay?Sifry's comment? "All healthy ecosystems have parasites." I'm not sure if it's that healthy when the parasites make up 99% of the activity, though.
Please try to remain calm. Remember, this is justFox News(go on, follow the link). Breath deeply, sit down, relax. It may be sensible to ask a friend or loved one to monitor your heart rate.Okay, now watch the above video which shows a debate centering around the digital sex scenes portrayed in Mass Effect. Two minutes of, let's face it, almost nostalgically bashful digital flesh. In a 40-hour game. Which carries a Mature rating in America.Frankly, I'm still astonished. I know it's just Fox News, but...Astonished.
Apple has just released financial results for its fiscal2008 first quarter. The Guardian reported them this morning iniPod faces fears of market saturation, while The New York Times offeredApple Earnings Up, but Stock Falls on Outlook.The results were followed by a conference call, and Ars Technica has asummary. Two points of particular interest:Apple is seeking to do three things with the iPod: maintain market share in the US, continue to grow share internationally, and establish a new type of iPod, the "mainstream, mobile, Wi-Fi platform" that is the iPod Touch.In other words, the iPod Touch is the new Newton de nos jours.Flat iPod growth in the US was more than made up for by international expansion, where the demand curve was similar to last year. The US saw a "slightly different curve."It's a truism to observe that Apple's core market is the Rich White Male Living In California, and it's very weak overseas. But the consequence is that Apple has a potentially vast untapped opportunity in the rest of the world, including India and China. Although these are statistically poor countries, they contain (by Apple standards) very large numbers of very rich people who might well like the same kind of products as the RWMLICs.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Blizzard are probably still pinching themselves. Yes, World of Warcraft has now got 10 million subscribers. Interestingly Asia accounts for 5.5 million of those, with the US (2.5mill) and Europe (2mill) making up the numbers. But you can't knock that total. The 3-year-old game has blown the previously niche massively multiplayer role playing genre wide open. You can see why. WoW is slick, polished and easy to get into while Azeroth is a beautifully designed virtual world. Throw in the traditional RPG staples of levelling, questing and trading and you have a horribly addictive experience. Heck, three years on and I'm still dipping in and out on a fairly regular basis. And with the second expansion pack -Wrath of the Lich King- due later this year you would expect growth to continue. Or would you?The previous expansion pack - Burning Crusade - made attempts to attract more players, with new races and starting areas. But Lich King looks like appealing to the hardcore only. True, "hardcore" in WoW is not on the same life-sapping scale as other MMO's. Players can get to level 70 - the highest in the game - without having to group up with other players. Good news for those with jobs and families who can't commit to 5 hour dungeon crawls. Sure, you'll miss out on the sexiest gear and loot - found mainly in areas that require you to team up - but you can see at least 80% of the game at your own pace.But Burning Crusade was released a year ago and with no date yet set for Lich King there are undoubtedly a large number of level 70 players with itchy fingers. With the likes ofWarhammer Onlinedue out later this year, and likely to appeal to those WoW players looking for a new challenge, it could be a while before WoW hits 11 million. Or can World of Warcraft just keep on growing?
It was only a few years ago that Matt Mullenweg started fiddling about withWordpress, the popular open source blogging platform, from his bedroom in Houston.Now, according toOm Malik, his company Automattic has raised $29.5m in series B funding from a number of investors - including the New York Times.On his blog, Mullenweg says that this isact two for the business: "Automattic is now positioned to execute on our vision of a better web not just in blogging, but expanding our investment in anti-spam, identity, wikis, forums, and more -- small, open source pieces, loosely joined with the same approach and philosophy that has brought us this far."We interviewed hima couple of months ago, but it's worth pointing out again that one of the remarkable things is how well Matt and his team have executed an open source business. Plus, he's still very young: sure, Mark Zuckerberg gets a lot of press for producing Facebook while still so fresh-faced, but while in was in San Francisco for Macworld I popped along to Mullenweg's birthday party - he's only just turned 24.
I've recently become rather obsessed with board games. After a lucky find at Oxfam in Southwick on Saturday, I was struck by the utter simplicity of most board game rules. My current post-dinner activity isThe aMAZEing Labyrinth, a treasure-collecting game where you rearrange the maze pieces on every turn, at once working your way towards you goal and stitching up your opponent. Surprisingly complex for such a simple premise.Most board games have very simple ideas. Look at Chess, Go and other ancient games. I can't imagine any game with more than 30 words in its rule-set that would stand the test of time. And increasingly, the computer and videogames I find most compelling are the little ones that clearly started out as a personal project that happened to catch people's eyes and go viral. A few of my (PC) favourites:Armadillo Run/Bridge BuilderScalextric meets game physicsGrow CubePoint, click, figure out the correct order of things.Puzzle QuestClassic puzzle game gone global.fl0wMusical evolution.GuesthouseA Samorost-style point-and-clicker.LaunchballThe Science Museum's take on Worms.Once in SpaceGravity gone mad.Chain FactorNumbers, columns and rows win prizes in this puzzle game.More from theexperimental gameplay project.More fromCactus Games.Many thanks for the inspiration,bambino tostare, aaron, jay, toby, footy, pass, matt and sion
It has been the technological wonder of the noughties, with seemingly no self-respecting ears seen without its tell-tale white earphones. But, according to some analysts, figures from Apple suggest that the iPod may be reaching  market saturation.Shares in the iPod's maker dived last night despite Apple announcing a 58% increase in profits to $1.58bn (&pound;800m) for the three months to December. Traders were worried by news that iPod sales in the US were no higher than in the previous year.  Before this, sales jumped by between 17% and 21% every three months.In unofficial trading after the close of the hi-tech Nasdaq stockmarket, Apple's shares fell by 10.9% to $138.67. The sell-off dragged rival technology stocks lower and fuelled fears of a fresh slump in  US stockmarkets today.The iPod was launched in 2001 as a ground-breaking MP3 player which, when tied in with Apple's iTunes service, revolutionised how people bought music.Since then, the device has become smaller and gained more features - the latest models are capable of showing video images as well as playing audio.Analysts expressed surprise at the company's forecast that its revenue will fall from $9.6bn in the first quarter of its financial year to $6.8bn in the second. David Garrity, director of research at Dinosaur Securities, said: "Apple's pretty much giving us a strong signal that as far as the consumer's concerned, once we're past the holiday shopping season, there's not really demand there to support the market."Although Apple's iMac computers and iPhone mobiles are selling well, Garrity said iPods were causing concern: "We're getting to the point now where there's saturation in terms of the market."Apple's latest music player, the iPod Touch, reached shops last year and boasts touch-screen technology capable of playing videos and of downloading from computers without a cable connection.But the Touch is more expensive than its predecessors - and turnover of the devices has been slower. Although Apple's revenue from iPods rose by 17%, global sales volumes increased by only 5% to 22.1m during the quarter.On a conference call, the company sought to quell fears. Chief financial officer Peter Oppenheimer said Apple viewed the iPod market as much broader than simply a market for music players, citing their video, internet and wireless capabilities. "We don't think revenue growth like this is characteristic of a saturated market," he said.Apple has sold more than 100m iPods since 2001. But in a climate of economic jitters around the world, any remote sign of weakness in corporate results is being punished by the stockmarkets. The Nasdaq closed last night at its lowest point for 15 months.
After the excitement of CES and Macworld, we're back down to earth with a bump in this week's episode of our still-new Tech Weekly podcast (here's the MP3).We're joined in the studio this week byDavid Edgerton, professor of the history of science and technology at Imperial College in London - his bookThe Shock of the Old: Technology and Global History Since 1900is out in paperback, and he explains exactly why he thinks techno-heads have got it all wrong. Do you agree with him?Elsewhere we talk toVividas, purveyors of a new streaming technology they say can deliver top quality video over broadband, discuss the fallout of theMySQL purchaseand look at what's been going on in the last seven days.This is only episode 5 - and we're mighty pleased to have you on board: tell us what you think in the comments or email us attech@guardian.co.uk.·Subscribe free to Tech Weekly via iTunes·or download this to your computer·The podcast feed URL·Visit our Facebook group
Lots going on in the exciting world of PlayStation 3 today. No wait, give us a chance. First up, the pearly white version of Sony's machine, which has so far only been available in Japan, is coming to the US if the usually reliable Federal Communications Commission's website is to be believed (morehere). Those who have chosen not to buy the machine in its black form - perhaps due to interior design issues or only liking things that look like Macbooks - can now join in the fun.And they won't be alone. Sony has announced record European sales figures over Christmas, shipping around 1.2 million consoles during the five-week period ended Dec. 31. However,according to Bloomberg, analysts predict the manufacturer will NOT meet its target of shifting 11 million PS3 units by March 2008. The experts are saying eight million.From later in the Bloomberg piece:Higher sales, coupled with lower production costs, will reduce the company's operating losses related to PlayStation 3s by 90 percent to $158 million in the fiscal second half ending March 31, according to Dec. 27 estimates by Nikko Citigroup.It was also Nikko Citigroup which, last week, suggested that Sony has managed to cut production costs in half, since the launch of PS3 (morehere) - a significant milestone in the quest to bring PlayStation back into productivity.There is a subtle, but growing feeling on the blogosphere that the fortunes of the machine may finally be changing. I know, I know, we've heard it all before, but Next-Generation editor Colin Campbell has an opinion piece on the site entitledPS3: The Rebirth, which draws together some of the familiar arguments (Blu-ray, Home, Brand identity, etc) to suggest that PS3 might not be a dodo - even if it's probably never going to recapture the autocratic glory days of the late-nineties and early 2000s. Most importantly, he says something that a lot of people are beginning to realise, something unique to this cycle:This hardware cycle has confounded most of what we thought we knew about the console games market. We used to believe that there would always be an ultra-dominant console and a distant second-place. We used to believe that third place was no-where. It was once a central belief that games consoles ought not try and be something else; that convergent devices were anathema... Those things don't seem to hold any longer. All three console manufacturers are in a strong position to take a win from this generation; simultaneously.Finally, PlayStation Network adverts currently swimming around online (although I've not found it yet) areapparentlyhighlighting one key boast for PS3, something that's likely to grow in importance this year - a free online gaming system. 'The fun's always free' it goes, much to the chagrin of Xbox fans who are countering on various forums and comments sections, pointing to the system's lack of content and its unreliability.Hmmm- pot, kettle, black, anyone?
I've just been catching up with the sprawling Guardian site and find our Jemima Kiss has already covered (at 8am!) the latest ComScore research inMail website has most overseas users, in MediaGuardian. But that's not going to stop me from snaffling a table (above; click for larger version) and linking to thepress release, which includes another table.It's clear that UK media sites get a lot of overseas visitors, and you won't be surprised to hear that a large proportion are from North America (Frenchmedia sites don't do as well). Obviously the BBC strives to be global, but I'm not sure why the Mail is doing so well overseas, given that it's the voice ofMiddle England. According to Jemima: "The Mail's strong international traffic has previously been credited to its expat community and its royal coverage."If I could just think of a few Princess Di angles for iPhone stories we'd be home and dry.Update: Perhaps I should have mentioned that we already haveGuardianAmerica.comonline, edited byMichael Tomasky.Around the office, I used to quip that the last major event in the Guardian's history was when the editor packed his briefcase and moved from Manchester to London, signalling that we were a national not a regional paper, and the next would be when he moved to New York. But maybe I should have said Beijing....
8bitjoystick says it has aninside trackon why the Xbox 360, first iteration, had such a terrible failure rate - up to 30 per cent (as we calculated) and costing Microsoft north of $1bn.As we wrote last year:The billion-dollar figure also indicates that Microsoft's repeated insistence that the failure rate was about average for such hardware - that is, between 3% and 5% - cannot have been true. The real failure rate is probably about five times greater than the company has admitted, which would put repair costs at between $330 and $660 per console. At that upper limit, it would be cheaper for Microsoft simply to send a cheque for a brand new console.The interview is withan individual who has worked on the Xbox 360 project for many years and they had some things that they wanted to get out into the public. I have the fullest confidence in the integrity of this confidential source.(Ah, smell the journalism. Mm.)Key points: "the design has very little margin for most of the important parameters. That means it's not a fault tolerant design. So a good unit may last a couple of years, while a bad unit can fail in hours. I have a launch unit and have not had a single problem with it. And it's used a lot. But I don't know anyone else with a 360 that hasn't broken, except you now. There's no way to tell when yours might die. But the cooler you can keep it, the longer it will probably last. So stand it up, keep it in free air, etc."And: "MS was so focused on beating Sony this cycle that the 360 was rushed to market when all indications were that it had serious flaws. The design qual testing was insufficient and incomplete when the product was released to production. The manufacturing test equipment had major gaps in test coverage and wasn't reliable or repeatable. Manufacturing processes at eall levels of suppliers were immature and not in control. Initial end to end yields were in the mid 30%. Low yields always indicate serious design and manufacturing defects. Management chose to continue to ship anyways, and keep the lines running while trying to solve problems and bring the yields up."And now what we call the money question:what causes the Red Ring of Death?"RROD is caused by anything that fails in the "digital backbone" on the mother board. Also known as a core digital error. CPU, GPU, memory, etc. Bad parts, incompatible parts (timing problems) bad manufacturing process (like solder joints), misapplied heat sinks or thermal interface material, missing parts, broken parts, parts of the wrong value, missed test coverage. Any one or more, on any chip, or many other discrete components, would cause this. And many of the failures were obviously infant mortality, where they work when they leave the factory and fail early in use. The main design flaw was the excessive heat on the GPU warping the mother board around it. This would stress the solder joints on the GPU and any bad joints would then fail in early life."Pity that Microsoft couldn't have admitted something along these lines earlier. But we'll settle for this - if we can be sure it's kosher.There's plenty more - read it and consider whether it applies to your 360. The key point though is that this moves the story on and puts the ball in Microsoft's court: it has to refute these claims, if it can, or confess to failures in QA.
They are the bane of online communities, the destroyer of online games. Griefers are pests to the highest degree, but, asWiredargues, an essential and important part of the gaming experience. In a thoughtful feature dissecting griefer culture in the virtual world Second Life, one group of goons, the Patriotic Nigras (aka the PNs), are profiled and documented.From the article:Griefing, as a term, dates to the late 1990s, when it was used to describe the willfully antisocial behaviors seen in early massively multiplayer games like Ultima Online and first-person shooters like Counter-Strike (fragging your own teammates, for instance, or repeatedly killing a player many levels below you). But even before it had a name, grieferlike behavior was familiar in prehistoric text-based virtual worlds like LambdaMOO, where joyriding invaders visited "virtual rape" and similar offenses on the local populace.
"A Dutch company has squeezed a display the size of two business cards into a gadget no bigger than other mobile phones -- by making a screen that folds up when not in use," reportsReuters.Have a look at thethree photosto see how it works.Polymer Visionsays the Readius is already in production, but they won't tell you the price.Shiny Shiny hasYouTube videoof a prototype from last February's 3GSM show.
Classic FM, the UK's most popular commercial radio station, has just launched another six stations. Obviously these are not being broadcast over good old FM: the spectrum is already full up. They are internet stations, and play in a browser window (Internet Explorer only, so far). There's nothing to download or install.Internet radio stations are different. There are thousands, so each can target its own niche audience. For example, you might not be able to get a jazz station over the air where you live. But searchingSHOUTcast.comfor jazz throws up more than 300 stations, including variants of smooth, modern, big band, bebop, uptempo, downtempo, acid and Latin jazz. There's even a station called Bossa Nova Samba Jazz.AM and FM radio stations often have effusive presenters and intrusive advertising, and you'll still get both if you listen to these stations via the web. Internet-only radio stations, by contrast, tend just to stream music. It's more like listening to someone's MP3 player remotely than "real" radio, but it may be just what you want.Sound quality is no longer a problem. Most serious stations broadcast MP3 streams at 128kbps, which is fine for PC listening; some use 192kbps or even 256kbps. Most sound as good as or better than the UK's DAB digital radio, which encodes broadcasts in inefficient MP2 and generally has poor stereo. Of course, some internet stations use lower speeds - 96kpbs or less - but you can compromise between the appeal of the content and the quality of the sound.Greatest hits channelThe newMy Classic FMservice offers six options including Baroque, Opera and Movies (for film music). There's also one called Hall of Fame - a "greatest hits" channel - based on listener votes, and one called Music for Studying. They sound pretty good through PC headphones. (Since Internet Explorer is required, I assume they are streamed via 128kbps WMA.) The major drawback is that, for copyright reasons, the stations are only available through UK-based servers.Where My Classic FM varies the formula is in allowing users more control. You can pause tracks, rate what you hear and skip or ban things you don't like. Well, up to a point: you can only skip six things per session, or the system might start to run out of tracks.It does make you wonder how much content there is. I've been listening to the Baroque channel and it is repetitive and omits major figures such as Telemann, Rameau and Scarlatti.Another problem is that it's an easy-listening version of Baroque: like living on bonbons. Classic FM is deliberately not aimed at "connoisseurs of classical music", but it would be nice to have a "difficulty knob" to turn up.Nevertheless, My Classic FM's web-based player offers other functions. There are tabs for listening to the live broadcast, "listen again" programmes, videos and Classic FM TV. If you get bored, a drop-down menu opens a new window for sister stations such as Capital, theJazz and XFM. Pity it doesn't open them in the same window ...
The story of big lay-offs at Yahoo has been doing the rounds without any confirmation from the company, now being run by Jerry Yang. However, nowThe New York Timeshas covered the story, and it says: "The final number of layoffs from Yahoo's work force of about 14,000 is yet to be determined and is likely to be announced around the end of the month, perhaps during Yahoo's conference call on Jan. 29 with analysts after it reports fourth-quarter results."In an e-mail statement, a company spokeswoman, Diana Wong, said: "Yahoo plans to invest in some areas, reduce emphasis in others, and eliminate some areas of the business that don't support the company's priorities. Yahoo continues to attract and hire talent against the company's key initiatives to create long-term stockholder value."In a guest column at GigaOM,Yahoo, Please Put Up A Fight, Sramana Mitra points out that Yahoo has a presence in several very profitable "hot" parts of the market -- Flickr, HotJobs, travel, finance etc -- but is not monetising them properly.The reason I believe that Yahoo can become the jewel of Web 3.0 is that it already has strong or interesting positions in multiple verticals, among them news, sports, finance, jobs and photo sharing. My entire Web 3.0 thesis is based on the web becoming verticalized, and therefore, to do justice to its potential, Yahoo needs to win in the verticals, and monetize them.It's all to play for.
Yahoo is set to announce its biggest round of job cuts since the dotcom crash, cutting several hundred staff in response to investor concerns that the company needs to improve its profitability and become more strategically focused.The US internet giant is expected to cut staff in low-priority areas when it announces a tight 2008 budget at its earnings call next Tuesday, January 29.Yahoo has been conducting a slow-moving review of its business since the middle of 2007, when co-founder Jerry Yang replaced Terry Semel as chief executive.Yang laid out key priorities for improving the company's performance and competitiveness against its arch-rival Google, including a focus on personalised services that would better appeal to advertisers and consumers, an open development platform and faster internal decision-making.But months of incremental improvements have failed to reassure the company's investors, who have seen the company's market value fall by $12bn since January 2006.The workforce grew by 2,600 during 2007 to 14,000 people.Industry blog Silicon Alley Insider predicted cuts of up to 2,500 last week. But inside sources told the Wall Street Journal and New York Times today that layoffs would be in the hundreds - still the largest round of job cuts at the firm since the dotcom crash.The company said in a statement that it would need to make "tough decisions to help the company grow"."Yahoo plans to invest in some areas, reduce emphasis in others, and eliminate some areas of the business that don't support the company's priorities."Yahoo continues to attract and hire talent against the company's key initiatives to create long-term stockholder value," the firm added.Industry pundits have been impatient for Yahoo to fulfill its potential. Writing on the GigaOm blog, consultant and entrepreneur Sramana Mitra said the company was "in the most promising position to be able to leverage Web 3.0" because of its reach into recruitment space, property and photo-sharing."The monetisation needs to be much more thorough," Mitra wrote. "Their current organisation structure, which has advertisers, publishers and audiences under different executives, is in my opinion a flawed model. Accountability is unclear."They should put each vertical under a separate general manager, one who is accountable for all three aspects of the vertical and owns the P&amp;L [profit and loss]."This would fix a lot of the cultural problems and finger-pointing for which Yahoo has lately become infamous."&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
After the excitement of CES and Macworld, we're back down to earth with a bump in this week's episode of our still-new Tech Weekly podcast (here's the MP3).We're joined in the studio this week byDavid Edgerton, professor of the history of science and technology at Imperial College in London - his book The Shock of the Old: Technology and Global History Since 1900 is out in paperback, and he explains exactly why he thinks techno-heads have got it all wrong.  Do you agree with him?Elsewhere we talk to Vividas, purveyors of a new streaming technology they say can deliver top quality video over broadband, discuss the fallout of the MySQL purchase and look at what's been going on in the last seven days.This is only episode 5 - and we're mighty pleased to have you on board: tell us what you think in the comments or email us at tech@guardian.co.uk.WithAleks Krotoski,Bobbie Johnson,Charles ArthurandJemima Kiss.
2007 was a great year for mobile games. SolaRola, Urban Attack, Crazy Window Cleaners, Hexic, PES 2008 and Might and Magic II should all be taking up space on your handset, giving you motion sickness on the bus to work. And there were plenty more when you were done with those.But 2008 could be even better. I'm only just starting to get in touch with all the publishers, probing them about their 'roadmaps' for the year, but already some real gems are emerging. Mobile companies don't make it easy though - only a couple actually send me new titles through their own volition; most have to be coaxed into providing review code. I suppose it's my fault for only intermittently covering the mobile platform - but Ihavebeen doing it for eight years...Anyway, Ihavebeen sent Sushi Mania (handily continuing Aleks' food theme from below), a gorgeous new platformer fromHands-On, which I'll politely say has been 'inspired' by Sonic The Hedgehog - although the developers have seemingly loitered in an alleyway and mugged Yuji Naka as he walked past, nicking every design idea he's ever mustered. That's not a criticism - stealing ideas from Sonic Team is just good sense.In Sushi Mania, you control a sushi roll as it, well, rolls through a pastel coloured cartoon world collecting gold coins and sushi ingredients while avoiding, leaping on or turbo-rolling enemy creatures - yes, like in Sonic you can double-tap forward or back to go extra fast. Also like Sonic, you must find your own route through the multi-layered environments, often speeding past whole areas of the landscape, catching glittering coins and interesting items out of the corner of your eye as you zoom past, vowing to go back on your next go to find out more.There are jump pads, there are holes to fall down, there are multiple transporters that take you to new areas. What I really like is the way they've grafted a multi-route progression system onto the level layout, so your success on one mission dictates where you go next. You also get boss battles and mini-games to unlock, and new characters become available sporting different stats for speed, jump height and the like.There's lots going on, lots to achieve, lots to go back and discover - it's Sonic filtered through standard Nintendo level design mechanics. Graphically, it is also LocoRoco, with cute fatty characters and highly impressionistic use of colour and scenic design. Mobile gamers will also think of SolaRola, Eidos' brilliant platform adventure from the close of last year. But somehow, it retains a sense of identity.Okay, the controls aren't responsive enough and I was often frustrated in my attempts to pull off the acrobatics needed to get the best items. The side-scrolling, too, is often just a beat too slow. But it's such a lovely, well-thought out game. So full of fun, so packed with clever little touches. Eventually, you learn to work with the minor faults, calming things down, watching the timer at the top of the screen and working out that, yes, you do have time to try that tricky double-jump once more rather than hurling your handset into a wall.If you've already played the Sonic mobile conversions, or just want a candy cute little platformer for a few hours of retro-tinged fun, download Sushi Mania as soon as you can.And after this I'm playing Townsmen 5, the latest title in Handy Games' long-running and consistently good strategy series, and maybeIn-Fusio's Tower Defence-alike, Tower Wars. After that, N-Gage (finally), touch-screen games,Androidgames... I think my irregular reports are about to become more frequent. Best get used to it now.
eBay chief executive Meg Whitman is preparing to step down after 10 years in the post, according to reports.The Wall Street Journalcites sources suggestingthat 51-year-old Whitman is ready to retire from her position as head of the online auction company, with a number of potential replacements apparently jostling to take over.Whitman, who joined the company in 1998 after a career with Procter &amp; Gamble and Disney, is reported to be ready to hand over the reins when she reaches a decade in the job later this year. In the past she has said that nobody should remain as CEO of a company for more than 10 years.Frontrunner to replace her is John Donahoe, a senior executive who runs the company's auction business and was brought into eBay by Whitman in 2005 from a management consultancy firm.On her departure Whitman will leave behind a mixed report card having guided eBay to international success but failed to stop a slowing in growth over recent years.Growth stallsSince taking over at the Californian company she has helped it to expand from just 29 employees to more than 11,000 and cemented its position as the world's biggest auction website. After years of strong financial results and riding through the dotcom bust, however, growth has started to stall in recent years.A series of high-profile acquisitions - including the $1.5bn takeover of transaction company PayPal in 2002 - has been followed by a number of trickier business deals. The purchase of London-based internet telephony company Skype in 2005 for up to $3.4bn was written down by $900m last year, as founders Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis left their positions under a cloud.The $75m purchase of social website StumbleUpon has also left some pundits scratching their heads about the company's long-term business plans.Last year Whitman told a conference that the eBay job was "the last business job I will have, for sure". Outside of her day-to-day duties at eBay, she has engaged in some philanthropy and has close ties to US politician Mitt Romney, who is campaigning for the Republican presidential nomination.The auction business is currently undertaking an 18-month redesign of its websites in order to generate more income, but analysts have said that sweeping changes could be necessary to shake up the company's culture."We've made it fairly clear for some time that we think that eBay as a company has been sweeping too many of its issues under the rug," said Derek Brown, an analyst with Cantor Fitzgerald, last year. "If a new CEO doesn't address the issues in the right way, I don't know that a new CEO would be better."
The UK Governmentannounced todaythat cooking will compulsory in schools from next autumn. Kids between the ages of 11-14 will be expected to pass pasta and porridge in an effort to support better health and nutrition decisions in future.Sure, getting mucky in the kitchen is one way to do it, but another is to incorporate the raft of computer games that feature cuisine as their central element. After all, as technology marches into the classroom, teachers are armed with the latest consoles and handheld devices. No, seriously. I heard about a teacher with a Wii in her teaching pack at the beginning of the term.Anyway, let's combine the two. Here's a selection of food-oriented interactive entertainments that could teach these kiddies a thing or two:Cooking MamaThis indie mega-hit uses the Wiimote as the cooking utensil, and comes complete with recipes for Borscht, Fish and Chips and Lamb Curry.Burger TimePerhaps not high on the list in the nutritionists' handbook, this arcade classic challenges our little chefs to assemble the perfect burger whilst avoiding the calorific sauce monsters. Lettuce and tomato are included as part of this delicious feast.Pizza SyndicatePossibly one of the most terrible games I've had the pleasure to play, this low-budget business simulation teaches the numbers behind food production. No battery chickens were harmed during the making of this game.Parappa the RapperA combination of music and cooking skills, you must ape the bizarre chicken's instructions to create a feat most extra-ordinary. A seafood cake? Delish.Mix mix mix the flour into the bowl...Suggestions?
Tuesday's edition of chatterbox
Electronic Arts, the world's largest video games company, is releasing a free online version of its popular Battlefield title, hoping to make up for any lost revenues by selling adverts within the game.Selling adverts within computer games has become big business in recent years but EA's move is the first time that a major gaming company has experimented with using advertising to pay for a game rather than merely using advertising revenues to augment traditional retail sales.Adverts will not appear in the game itself but will be packaged around the game, for instance appearing on the screen while the game loads up. There will also be adverts on the game's website.Available to download from the summer, Battlefield Heroes is a new game from the team behind Battlefield 1942 and Battlefield 2, which have sold millions of copies in shops.The company intends to keep the new game "fresh" by offering new content through its website, which players can download once they are playing the game. Persuading players to download additional material as time goes on will also allow EA to update the adverts and make further revenues.Gerhard Florin, head of publishing at EA, said: "Online gaming garners a massive audience."The game has been designed to be relatively easy to play so that it can be accessible on a wide variety of computers and appeal to as large an audience as possible.
EA has officially announced Battlefield Heroes, the first title in the company's new Play 4 Free initiative which will offer downloadable PC titles - yes - for free. They're ad-supported of course, but will also feature micro-transactions (possibly new characters, weapons, etc) - a business model that's well established in Korea where titles likeKart Riderare free to download, making their (huge piles of) cash out of buyable extra items.And this is no ordinary Battlefield title. As the press release makes clear (if you can make it through the grammatically nightmarish first line):It's fun cartoon-style graphics and gameplay caters to players of all skill levels. It is easy to pick up and play but with robust character customization and a deep online meta-game, gamers can spend hours building up their characters and conquering the world.DeveloperEA DICEis promising to keep updating the game with new content, much of the amends based on player feedback. Clearly the company has been inspired, not only by the rise of PC casual gaming communities (the multiplayer component features a matchmaking service that ensures equally skilled, or unskilled players get to meet each otehr), but also Wii, Xbox Live Arcade and the coming LittleBigPlanet.Update:plus, as PhilWal comments below Team Fortress surely also played a part.It'll be interesting to see if more publishers start experimenting with this sort of thing, getting small teams to work on cheaper projects during downtimes. In the past, developers have talked about doing this sort of thing with mobile games and XBLA/PlayStation Store titles, but it's rarely transpired. Maybe studios will feel they can get away with a less polished product if they're not charging upfront - and get the chance to refine the project in response to player feedback.Battlefield Heroes is set for release this summer. More at theofficial site.
The BT Shop is now selling theVye Mini-V S37ultramobile computer (UMPC) with 7 inch touch screen, 120GB hard drive, keyboard and camera, with prices starting at £650. This is more than twice what a hard drive-less Asus Eee PC would cost, if you could get one running Windows Vista Home Premium, and rather more than the £499 high street price of full-sized laptops.TheVye sitesays:The S37 can combine your conventional notebook, desktop, PDA, smart phone, GPS Navigation,MP3 and MP4 Player, all in a design not much bigger than a paperback book.The most alarming bit of the specification, however, is the processor speed: 600MHz. That doesn't sound like a good idea for Vista with Aero, even if you stick in a 1GB or 2GB Flash card for Vista to use via its ReadyBoost feature. Pushing the processor speed up to800MHzpushes the price up to £799, which is even less enticing.The Asus is a very slow machine, but gets a lot of forgiveness for the price. I suspect UMPCs like the Vye are going to have to get much closer to £299 before they generate any real excitement.
Three things of note happened last week. Apple announced its MacBook Air, "the world's thinnest notebook computer" - though as someone pointed out on the BBC Technology blog discussion about this, was there a news item about the previous thinnest notebook?; Oracle said it would buy BEA Systems, a maker of "middleware", for $8.5bn; and Sun Microsystems said it would buy MySQL, the company that produces the eponymous, free, open-source database, for $1bn.The question is, which of these is the most important to you, the slightly above-average reader?It's not the MacBook Air. While this is a lovely looking beast, and does have some interesting implications - not least that your future life will feature fewer wires - it's not a game-changer, for a number of reasons. First, at £1,200 for the basic model, it's quite pricey. This is clearly up at the "necessary luxury" end of the market: people who buy it will already have another computer, but this will be their lightweight travelling companion.(It's interesting that Intel shrank the chip die by 60%, but it's a 65-nanometre product, not 45nm as the very newest Intel chips are. As George Ou at ZDNetpoints out, that's probably because the design had to be finalised some months ago, before Intel could be sure its 45nm designs would work. Which implies that faster MacBook Air models won't be so hard to implement.)Wireless futureThe lack of wires - just one USB port - does point towards a future when we try to link up wirelessly everywhere. However, the lack of built-in 3G or WiMax compatibility indicates an intriguing conservatism by Apple (though Intel first shipped a WiMax-capable chipmore than a year ago, and saysit will have the chip in processors this year). The future, it seems, is only a bit wireless.Oracle splashing the cash on BEA Systems? The former, of course, is Larry Ellison's huge database company, which has been on an acquisition path for years. BEA System, which you may not have heard of, makes "middleware" - software that tries to smooth out the problems of getting different systems (particularly databases) within a large corporation to cooperate.TheWikipedia entrydoes its best to explain what BEA's products are, if not what they do. There's no doubt that what BEA does is really important to lots of companies that you and I probably do business with all the time. Perhaps, for instance, its software (or the lack of it) is the reason why we're told that "the computer's gone down" or that "we don't have any record of your ordering that" or "it says here that you have ordered it but from a different address". (And of course "what it says here" is always assumed to be the more accurate version of real life.)Money isn't everythingBut does the utility of the software to those organisations translate into impact on your life? Will Oracle owning BEA make a difference to you or me? I don't think so. Money isn't everything. Consider, after all, whether the biggest IT merger of recent years - AOL and Time Warner - has had any effect on your daily life. It was a $164bn deal, enough to stuff even a couple of Northern Rocks in if they had wanted to.Difference to all of our lives? None, I'd say. Honestly: Time Warner still does content, and AOL has withered away. Fewer people use AOL now, but that wasn't because of the merger.So I don't think that Oracle's achieving that prize matters much to us.But Sun Microsystems buying MySQL - ah, that's interesting. MySQL, whose customers for its free, open-source database includea certain famous search engine, is small, and so are its revenues - estimated at perhaps $200m - seemingly paltry compared with the $15bn spent on databases every year.But that number masks the open-source effect. MySQL is used by Google, by Facebook, by dozens and dozens of companies that you come across all the time. Sun has already had a positive effect on the development of the OpenOffice (formerly StarOffice) suite, so that it's now useful on all sorts of platforms.Technical fixesBut what Sun sees as important about MySQL is that it gives the company a way to persuade others to install its hardware - which, of course, is where it makes its money. And having a company the size of Sun behind MySQL could mean that some of the ways in which it still trails behind Oracle (such as transactional processing) can be fixed. Sun can fund the programmers to improve it even further.So why would that affect you or me? It's not going to change Google, which already plays around with MySQL in its own ways and even feeds back to the source code. But it will mean that MySQL can get better. We might see a resurgent Sun, able to persuade bigger companies to save money on the database licensing from some other company (cough, Oracle, cough) and instead spend it on Sun's hardware, which will no doubt be tuned for a special version of MySQL very soon. Then we should see faster sites and more robust updates and more use of MySQL, which would not be a bad thing - except, perhaps for Larry Ellison.Ellison, though, does have one thing up his sleeve: Oracle owns the company InnoDB, which writes the back-end transaction engine for MySQL. Could Ellison create trouble for MySQL and hence Sun? He could - but InnoDB is open source too, and there are plans to develop a new back-end engine, calledFalcon, scheduled to appear in MySQL 6.0 (it is currently at 5.2).So: thin laptops and fat cheques aren't what's really important. It's open source that's going to continue to make the difference. In a week of news, sometimes the story remains the same.
If, like me, you had problems with Xbox Live over Christmas then you may be slightly underwhelmed by Microsoft's attempt to apologise. All Xbox Live users, silver and gold, will be able todownload a free copyof Undertow.Undertow?Well, apparently it, "redefines aquatic based shooters". Personally I wasn't aware that this genre even existed, never mind that it needed redefining, but freebies are always welcome. But does it make up for the uncharacteristically patchy Xbox Live service over the Christmas period?
Photo:EngadgetApple boss Steve Jobs is the king of snakeoil salesmen, and his Macworld Expo keynote included a great example of manipulation. Check his chart of US Smartphone Marketshare, for example. Yes, the green Apple segment (19.5%) really is bigger than the Other segment (21.2%), which is also out of order, by size.Someone must have figured out that you could make Apple look better by putting it at the front, by tilting the pie chart backwards, and possibly by moving Other. Job is famous for his attention to detail, so did he really not notice? Or did he say: "Hey, great idea"?Another great piece of deception is deciding to illustrate market share by brand. Anybody who wanted an honest appraisal of the market would look at it by operating system, because there are several operating sytems used by many different smartphone suppliers. The leading ones are Symbian, Linux, and Windows Mobile.We know that Symbian dominates the world smartphone operating system market (below), but it's weak in the US. How about Windows Mobile? Well, that makes up a chunk of Other, thanks to firms such asHTC, and it makes up a chunk of Palm, and Motorola also supplies phones running Windows Mobile. It's reasonable to ask what you get if you add these together, and there's some indication on the chart below (N.AM).But you're certainly not going to get Jobs standing on stage showing Microsoft's share of in the US smartphone market if it's as big as Apple's!Everybody appreciates that the iPhone has been a spectacular success in a very short time. Why not present that success fairly and honestly? Why isn't that "the Apple way"?Charts from Canalys as used in the Symbian Market Round-up (PDF), viaSimon Judge.Charles Arthur adds:here (below) is what it would have looked like had he done it in 2D (rather than 3D, angled with the base towards you). Created in Keynote 08, in case you're wondering.
