The Last Guardian (PS4)Made by the team behind the joyously beautiful Ico, The Last Guardian has been “coming soon” for many, many years, leading some to speculate that it might have been quietly killed off behind the scenes. Publisher Sony reassures us that this strange story of a boy and his huge winged beast is alive and looking just as oddly wonderful as you might expect.No Man’s Sky (PS4 &amp; PC)The promise of No Man’s Sky is alluringly simple: it will give you an entire galaxy to explore. Refusing to brand itself as an action game, it offers millions of procedurally generated worlds to investigate, each with its own wildlife and geology, as well as a mysterious “galactic centre” for players to discover.Shenmue 3Released at the turn of the millennium, Shenmue and its sequel are still among the most expensive games ever produced. They told the story of a boy tracking down his father’s killers and, although they were a commercial disaster, their cult following has never stopped demanding more. That call may finally be answered with Sony’s Kickstarter campaign announced during E3, which reached its $2m goal within hours of appearing online.NintendoConsidered by most to have “won” the last generation of games consoles, Nintendo’s latest, the Wii U, has not been quite as successful. Its showing at this year’s E3 was equally muted: space-shooter Star Fox Zero made interesting use of the Wii U gamepad but was otherwise similar to past outings, while The Legend of Zelda: Triforce Heroes is a spiritual successor to the well-received but far from classic Four Swords multiplayer game.Microsoft HoloLensAfter Kinect – Microsoft’s movement-based control system which managed to disappoint on every level – HoloLens has to be viewed with a little scepticism. But although still only at tech demo stage, it does seem like a great concept: eschewing virtual reality, it’s designed to project computer-generated images on top of the real world.Fallout 4 (PS4, Xbox One &amp; PC)Fallout games put you in a post-apocalyptic wasteland and let you forge your own destiny in its vast and complex reaches. Set in mutant-infested Boston, the latest Fallout promises to be the largest and most open-ended so far. The fervour that’s greeted this announcement means that the “Pip Boy” edition, which will come with its own retro-futuristic wrist-mount for your phone, has already sold out.Fallout Shelter iOSTo help the excitement about Fallout 4 reach health-threatening levels, Fallout Shelter was announced and released on the same day. It gives you command of a Vault-Tec bunker: starting with a few survivors and a single room, you gradually build your shelter into a bustling subterranean city.Dishonored 2(PS4, Xbox One &amp; PC)Set in a steampunk city in the throes of a plague epidemic, the first Dishonored gave you a remarkable degree of power over your own destiny, the skills you’ve acquired letting you approach its levels in a wide variety of ways. We don’t know much about the sequel yet, but the mere fact that it’s on its way is reason enough to be very happy.Xbox One backwards compatibilityBackwards compatibility for Xbox One means you can play Xbox 360 games without having to dust off your old console. It’s far from unprecedented (both PlayStation 2 and 3 let you play most of their back catalogues) but has not been a feature of Xbox until now. It’s an appealing prospect – even if experience suggests that playing old games tends to be something you almost never bother to do when brand new glittering releases are constantly dangled in front of you.Other E3 news in briefThe eternally popular Final Fantasy VII is going to get a full HD remake; the brutally testing Dark Souls will receive a third instalment, as will the hilariously chaotic Just Cause series; Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater 5 won’t be doing too much re-invention, settling instead for revising the game’s tried and tested mechanics for a new generation; Mirror’s Edge: Catalyst promises to take first person parkour to all new heights, and Microsoft’s Xbox Elite controller will cost an eye-watering £130 and will give players different thumbsticks, moveable clip-on paddles and a “hair-trigger” setting that means you merely have to touch each trigger to release a shot.
After 35 years in development, the world’s first commercially available jetpack will be available next year for $150,000.The Martin Jetpack is made from carbon fibre and aluminium. It eschews the traditional rockets of science-fiction jetpacks, which are powerful but difficult to control, and instead uses fans.A two-litre petrol engine drives two fans either side of the pilot to lift the jet pack and up to 120kgs of human into the air, along with a low-altitude parachute for use should things go wrong.After initial test flights in 2011, an updated version was shown off recently at the Paris airshow. It could fly for up to 30 minutes at speeds as fast as 74 kilometres per hour. Pilots will be able to reach altitudes of 1,000m taking off and landing vertically, meaning rooftops, gardens and parking lots are all viable launchpads.In fact, Martin believes that the jetpack’s ability to land in confined spaces will be its selling point, not aimed at millionaires as an expensive toy, but the emergency services.“I think the first responders will see that as a massive improvement to their capability,” Peter Coker, chief executive of Martin told Reuters. “Naturally for the ambulance service getting to a point of importance of rescuing people in the shortest possible time [is crucial].”Martin Jetpack demonstration.The jetpack will ship for emergency services in the second-half of 2016, with a personal version scheduled to be released the following year.New Zealand-based Martin Aircraftrecently floated on the Australian stock exchange, seeing a $50m investment from Chinese aerospace company Kuang-Chi Science, valuing Martin at $100m. It began taking orders earlier this year, and has been showing off a simulator of the jetpack at airshows including Paris.•Jetpacks: niche hobby or future transport for the masses?
Have you ever wished you could turn the page on your Kindle without having to touch it? Soon you may be able to by simply speaking to it.Amazon has released its voice-controlled personal assistant, Alexa, from its speaker cage and is encouraging everyone from corporations to hobbyists to build it into their next projects.Alexa – a rival to Apple’s Siri, Microsoft’s Cortana or Google Now – was previously only available in Amazon’s voice command device Echo, but its wider availability could see it in Amazon’s Kindles, tablets and other products.The retailer has unveiled an Alexa software development kit (SDK), some application programming interfaces (API) and a $100m fund for companies working on voice control technology. Amazon hopes that it can entice developers to use Alexa within their apps.Amazon revealed that it has already invested an undisclosed sum into seven companies, which between them are making a cooking app, a fitness gadget, a connected toy, a home monitoring system, a garage door controller and a voice-controlled car assistant, all powered by Alexa.But it is hoping to not only attract companies and commercial developers but hackers and hobbyists too.Greg Hart vice president for Echo and Alexa voice services at Amazon said: “We’re making the Alexa Skills Kit available to any developer, maker, or general hobbyist that wants to invent on behalf of customers, creating new skills and capabilities.”A number of high-profile companies have lined up to use the system, including AOL Intuit, StubHub and Glympse. For Amazon, the more people use the Alexa system, the better it will get and the more capabilities it will gain.Spreading far and wideAmazon’s own products will benefit as more third-party developers come on board. The Echo speaker will gain more links with more apps and services, which Amazon is using to try and slide its way into the internet of things (IoT) connected home.Amazon’s approach is very different to most of the other US technology companies attempting to shoehorn their voice control systems into the brave new world of IoT. Apple, for instance, allows users to control its HomeKit connected devices using Siri, but only through approved uses and via its iPhone or iPad.Google Now is slightly more open, available on more devices, but similarly cannot be used by developers directly, and while Microsoft’s Cortana will be available on the iPhone and Android devices, as well as the company’s Windows phones and computers, it is only in its infancy.For Amazon, Alexa’s future lies IoT products such as connected alarm clocks, smart lights and sprinkler systems, but it is likely to be baked into Amazon’s tablets, smartphones and e-readers, just like Siri.Talking to your Kindle might be the next big thing.•Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak says humans will be robots’ pets•Computer says no: Amazon uses AI to combat fake reviews•DeepMind: ‘Artificial intelligence is a tool that humans can control and direct’
A self-driving Audi owned by Delphi Automotive took “appropriate action” to avoid one of Google’s self-driving Lexus cars after it cut it off on a Californian road in a rare meeting of driverless vehicles.John Absmeier, who was travelling in his company’s car at the time, said the Delphi Audi was forced to abort its lane change in the incident, which happened earlier this week.The incident was initially reported as a “close call” byReuters, which cited Absmeier’s comments, but both self-driving car companies involved have since been at pains to state the incident was being used as an example of the cars operating safely.A Delphi spokeswoman, Kristin Kinley, toldArs Technica: “The story was taken completely out of context when describing a type of complex driving scenario that can occur in the real world. Our expert provided an example of a lane change scenario that our car recently experienced which, coincidentally, was with one of the Google cars also on the road at that time.”Delphi later released another statement saying: “It was an anecdote of an interaction, not a ‘near miss’. Reuters completely misrepresented the facts.”A source at Google also confirmed there was no near collision and said no one was at fault.Reuters says“the description differed from Delphi’s original account on Thursday”, and a Reuters spokesman said the company “stands by accuracy of its original story.”Self-driving car companies are particularly sensitive over their safety records.A report from Googlein May revealed that its own fleet of cars has had 11 minor accidents since the programme began in 2009. The director of the programme, Chris Urmson, wrote that not one self-driving car was the “cause” of an accident, and many of the incidents involved the car being rear-ended by another vehicle.Delphi, a self-driving startup, also reported an accident with one of its cars back in October, when an accident report showed that it was broadsided by another car while waiting to make a left turn – although the Delphi car was not actually in self-driving mode at the time, it was still required to report the accident under Californian law.As of May, there were seven companies with testing permits in the state, operating 48 self-driving vehicles. None of the other five had reported any accidents.On Thursday, Google announced that its purpose-built self-driving cars, nicknamed the “koala cars” due to their marsupial-like appearance, are also taking to public roads.In a blogpost, the company detailed the features of the cars, saying: “They’re ultimately designed to work without a steering wheel or pedals, but during this phase of our project we’ll have safety drivers aboard with a removable steering wheel, accelerator pedal, and brake pedal that allow them to take over driving if needed. The prototypes’ speed is capped at a neighborhood-friendly 25mph, and they’ll drive using the same software that our existing Lexus vehicles use.”• This story has been updated in light of Delphi Automotive’s statements on the incident.
A sequel to Beyond Good and Evil could be in development by Ubisoft, its chief executive has hinted.To many gamers, the 2003 action adventure is the great lost franchise – the series that Ubisoft should have spent the past decade creating new instalments for, but failed to do so.In 2008, a follow-up was announced, but never materialised – though it was always assumed to be in development.More recently, game site IGNpublished an interviewwith Ubisoft’s sales chief, Tony Key, who seemed to suggest that designer Michel Ancel had abandoned the project.Ubisoft later denied this, but would not reveal more details.However, the Guardian met Yves Guillemot, who co-founded Ubisoft in 1986, at the E3 expo in Los Angeles, and asked directly whether Beyond Good and Evil 2 was still in development. He replied: “I can’t say the name, but there is a team working with Michel Ancel on a project that is... very interesting.”When pressed on the connection between this new project and Beyond Good and Evil, Guillemot said: “It’s a game I’m sure you will like very much, and we can’t say more.”Released in 2003 to considerable critical acclaim, Beyond Good and Evil is an action adventure set on a futuristic world ruled by an oppressive alien race.Lead protagonist, Jade, is a young photojournalist who discovers a link between the extraterrestrials and a sinister human trafficking industry.Players and reviewers appreciated the interesting protagonist, the atmospheric setting and the witty script – but it failed to sell in large numbers. Is that why Ubisoft has demurred over a possible sequel? “Michel knows that. He’s going to consider that,” said Guillemot.However, when asked about the difficulty of squaring fan enthusiasm with commercial reality, he seemed more forthright: “For us, what counts when we create the next game is that we feel can make the best possible game.”Guillemot added: “There are some limits that we have to get rid of, because things have changed in the meantime, but there are elements we can keep. That’s why we don’t want to say anything until we are well advanced on the project. It’s too early to say.”There are reasons to believe that the project is happening. The enthusiastic response for both Mirror’s Edge: Catalyst and Shenmue 3 during this year’s E3 expo suggest that the nostalgia of a comparatively small group of dedicated fans can easily carry a lesser-known classic into mainstream territory.Beyond Good and Evil 2 would have fitted in perfectly at this year’s E3, a show that recorded both a rise in the number of female protagonists and a huge number of reboots, remakes and returns.‘Have patience’Ancel, meanwhile, now has his own small studio, Wild Sheep, but thisdoes not rule out his involvement in a new Beyond Good and Evil title.In 2010 he appeared at a games conference in Montpellier and said: “It will take time. Please have patience. I’m sorry.”Perhaps we just need slightly more patience than we realised.
“Come ye human, dwarf and orcGrab your ball and stop your talk.”From The Ballad of Blood Bowl, traditionalThe streets will be empty, the wares rotting on deserted market stalls. Today is live draw day, and the whole kingdom must attend. From king to beggar, they come, drawn by the promise of honour and combat in the Blood Bowl field. The excitement simmers like dragon’s breath.Gather round one and all, hush thy children, the draw begineth. Nought can be the same here after; heroes will be made anon.
Hearthstone: how a game developer turned 30m people into card geeks, part oneEvery Hearthstone match starts in the same way.Players select a hero class from the nine alternatives, each with their own specific abilities. Next, they build a deck of 30 cards to act as their hero’s army, most with attack and defence stats as well as special modifiers – they may be able to add health to fellow minions when played onto the table, or “buff” or augment other cards in order to create powerful combination attacks. Every card also has a mana value, which effectively represents the cost of playing it.Participants take it in turns to place their cards on the table, then choose to attack either their opponent’s minion cards or their hero. Players start with one mana crystal each, initially restricting them to less powerful cards, but with each turn, the mana count rises opening up more devastating options. When one hero’s defence count hits zero, the match is over. This is how over 30 million players spend many hours every week.But why is it so compelling?The beauty of the game is its mix of charm, intuitive design and reasonable depth. It’s easy to get into, with a straightforward turn-based mechanic and clear rules, but the combination of minion, spell and weapon cards, means that players can produce complex and multifaceted strategies that shift and mutate depending on the next card drawn from their pack.“The interesting thing about Hearthstone is that it actually does much less than Magic and other CCGs,” says game designer Will Luton, who is also a tournament Magic player. “Magic is such a complex game that even the smallest tournament organiser has to employ judges, who are graded through incredibly rigorous training and testing procedures by Wizard of the Coast’s tournament governing body the DCI. Even top pros are seen to call judges and ask questions on card interactions or specific timings of events and in some cases there is no answer and cards need to be amended or rulings made in Gatherer, Magic’s card database.”Hearthstone is much more simple, removing elements that upset the pace and fluidity, like the ability to ‘respond’ – to play off turn in response to another player’s card or effect. “It was certainly more complex when we started,” says Hearthstone lead designer, Eric Dodds. “With the taunt mechanic, which lets a Minion protect the hero from any incoming attacks, we originally thought the player should have to select which attacker to step in front of. But we tried it and we didn’t like the break in flow between turns. So we simplified the mechanic. We made a number of changes like that over time.”Luton agrees that this has made the game much more accessible, but it also retains enough of what makes paper CCGs so successful. Tactics that will work in more complex games, work here: the underlying structures and demands are the same.“All CCG games can be abstracted out and considered as a constant exchange of value,” he says. “A good player can come in to Hearthstone and apply long tested theories, such as tempo vs card advantage or beatdown theory, very effectively. For example, they’ll know that polymorphing a creature and then hitting it with a Fireball is expending two cards to remove one minion and so is a poor value exchange, whilst a new player probably won’t make that consideration. But over time, and with enough exposure to theory, players start to consider every play they make from a value perspective.”Matt Burke, an experienced Hearthstone player and YouTuber agrees that while the game is super intuitive, it retains just enough complexity to allow player invention. With the large number of cards available – many of them interoperable – the community is able to construct its own strategies and combinations. As with chess, different tactics go in and out of fashion as the player-base evolves. At the same time, the game shares similarities with poker – something the design team played a lot of, and borrowed elements from – including a “mulligan” sequence at the start where participants are able to reject cards. Although players build custom decks, they don’t know which cards will be dealt into their hand during play so they have to work with what they’re given. And chance sometimes throws up some blockbusting opportunities.“Whenever anyone plays Hearthstone there are always some really cool card combos you hope you can pull off,” says Burke. “If you get really lucky, it is such a great feeling. For example, using the coin to get an Alarm-o-Bot out on turn two and the next turn it summons Ysera, a legendary dragon card, or having two Knife Jugglers out before flooding the board with Onyxia and her whelps, and watching the Jugglers go to town throwing their daggers, clearing the board and eventually winning me the game. These are one of a kind moments; it’s so exciting when it happens!”The world is the boardThe intrinsic appeal of the gameplay is also augmented by the attractive aesthetics and by a very clever user interface. The team decided that, although this is a digital game, they wanted it have have the tactile feel of playing with physical cards across an actual table. When you select a card it makes the same swishing noise you get when drawing a real card from a pack; when you place it, there’s the satisfying impact sound, like plastic on a wooden table top. “A big part of the charm that we’re striving for – and this is reflected through out the game’s user interface – is this notion of physicality,” says production director, Jason Chayes. “The cards themselves feel like they have weight, that they’re lovingly crafted out of these exotic materials by artisans in the Hearthstone works in Azeroth. We wanted to make sure there was a feeling of imaginative persistence in the game.”On top of this, the setting of the game also mimics a physical space. “We experimented with a lot of different conceits for where you are in Hearthstone, and why you are playing,” says Chayes. “It wasn’t until about halfway through development where we had this notion that you’re inside a tavern playing on a little miniature board. We thought, this is a great way to play, it works with all our values, it has a lot of charm.”A key problem though, was maintaining the sense of having another person sitting opposite you at the table. Hearthstone is an online title so the opponent could be anywhere in the world – and there’s no camera or onscreen avatar, so you can’t see them. To add a social element then, Blizzard provided a small selection of phrases that players can select and send to their opponent. It’s just stuff like greetings and friendly compliments, but it’s as close as th eteam was willing to get to interaction.“Part of the notion of accessibility was to make it a very safe environment,” says Chayes. “We wanted to ensure that you could come in and have fun and not have to worry about negative comments and vitriol. Because of that we had to make sure that the interaction with other players was within a confined environments. But at the same time we didn’t want to lose that sense of sitting across a table in the real world – we knew that interaction was very important. You need to be able to say, ‘hey great game’, or even have the ability to evolve that into a friendship after the match . We knew if we shut that off completely you may as well be playing an AI.”The team also introduced elements to make the board more interactive, more digital. During each match, players are able to interact with the scenic elements around the board, perhaps loading a miniature catapult or stroking the wings of a dragon. Eric Dodds says the idea was inspired by the movie Jumanji about a board game that comes to life. Chayes insists it was about more than simple aesthetics. “The idea for these ‘clickables’ came quite earlier,” he says. “While playing physical card games, a lot of players like to shuffle the cards in their hand when it’s not their turn, slide them around – almost like a bit of a distraction. We wanted something similar, something to keep you busy while your opponent was playing. So once we’d made the decision to focus on the physicality of this board and this little virtual environment, we introduced the notion of clickable scenic elements to address that need.”Depth vs balanceThroughout 2012, Team Five began an escalating series of beta tests. The prototype first went to Blizzard’s QA team before being shared with other development teams within the company. August 2013 saw a limited closed beta, followed by an open beta in January 2014.“Through each of these phases we were getting a lot of ideas about how to push the game in new directions,” says Chayes whose team has continued to tweak the balance of play after the official launch. “You can see this if you look through the history of the cards we’ve adjusted over time. Unleash the Hounds and Starving Buzzard come to mind - these are cards that we’ve come back to a few times just to perfect the balance.“There’s a lot of interest in building very fast-paced rush decks - these particular cards end up supporting that approach very effectively so we want to make sure that we don’t eliminate rush as a strategy, it’s a very important part of the game. But that said, it’s also important that no particular deck type dramatically overwhelms the meta of the game. There have been others - warlock has a few cards we’ve come back to – but overall we’ve felt pretty happy with the balance, we’ve done smaller incremental changes over time, rather than wholesale change to the way any particular class works.”Approaching the April 2014 launch of the game, there were still doubts within Blizzard about its marketability. As Chayes explains, “We had tons of experiences as we were designing the game where we were saying to people, ‘hey you should check out Hearthstone’, we were really excited to show it to people. But the feedback, even internally, was ‘oh that’s not really my type of game’. That was a big challenge to us. How do we introduce this game from a genre that players have existing biases around? We just wanted people to pick it up and give it a shot.”To facilitate that the company made a crucial decision: Hearthstone would be free-to-play. It costs nothing to download the game, and new card packs can be bought with in-game currency earned through winning matches – but players can also buy packs if they don’t want to wait. It’s a complex, controversial model, and some players persist in calling Hearthstone a ‘pay to win’ game simply because of the time it takes to accrue a deck with a lot of powerful “legendary” minion cards if you’re not prepared to spend money.But what it’s meant is that a wider audience has come onboard – people who would never have paid for a fantasy-themed strategy game. “You can essentially collect every card in the game without spending a penny, which is what I’m trying to do,” says actor Greg Austin, who runs a a gaming YouTube channel where he regularly plays Hearthstone. “Sure, it’s going to take a long time, but as a gamer, I prefer to earn what is given to me, and when I manage to open up that awesome legendary card I’ve been yearning for, it feels that much sweeter than if I had paid for it. Also, I don’t feel punished for not having paid to get every single card in the game yet, as the element of chance features very strongly – but fairly – in Hearthstone. That leads to some downright epic game-changing moments.”After launch, as the player base swelled, something else was happening. Hearthstone was becoming a spectator sport. YouTube streams sprang up specialising in showing off cool decks and winning tactics, and very quickly, games were being streamed over Twitch gaining huge viewer figures.Hearthstone goes professionalThen, of course, the game was adopted into the growing eSports phenomenon where pro-gamers compete in global tournaments. This year’s world championships, set to be held as part of the massive Blizzcon festival this autumn, will boast a $250,000 prize pot and an online audience of millions. The neat thing about Hearthstone is that there’s a sense of engagement between viewer and participant – unlike other pro strategy titles like Starcraft II, which move at a hundred mouse clicks a minute, it’s slow enough that you can see what the player is thinking about when they’re toying with their cards. Watching decent players isn’t just a visual spectacle, it’s a viable learning experience.Chayes says the team is surprised at the size of Hearthstone’s eSports presence, but always felt the game had pro-gaming potential – and spectator appeal. “Before we ever released it to the public, we held an internal tournament and had one of our designers, Ben Brode, shoutcast the final. We were able to fill up our studio theatre – people were getting all rowdy, yelling at the screen, throwing things at each other, it was awesome. We saw that happening and we thought, wow, this is more than just a match being fought between two opponents.“After the closed beta it was really fun to watch the rise of the Hearthstone community, to see personalities start to develop with different styles, interacting with their audiences in different ways. At this stage we’re just trying to catch up, throwing in new features for the game to help enable that.”Since the launch, just over a year ago, there has been a series of expansions, including Goblins and Gnomes and Blackrock Mountain, adding new cards and gameplay items. In June, Blizzard launched a new game mode, Tavern Brawl, which opens up limited timed competitions with unique rules. But the development team is aware it has to ensure the game remains approachable as it matures.“It’s an ongoing topic about how to not overwhelm players,” says Chayes. “There are a lot of ways we ensure that: looking at the packs, we haven’t introduced any new key words at this point - it’s still taunt – we have the freeze mechanic, divine shield, all these ways to interact with your minions, but we really want to be careful about bringing new ones out. It’s the same thing with new classes, we get a lot of requested for things like monks and death knights. Right now, we feel like there’s a lot to digest with the classes we have. We feel like there’s a lot of design space to explore with all the various abilities and mechanics we’ve already introduced.”Whatever happens, the same small team of designers, pooled together seven years ago to play about with a weird game prototype, is still looking after Hearthstone. They’re still sort of baffled about what’s happened.“It’s crazy to think it’s only been a year,” says Dodds. “A number of people weren’t sure it would work – they would say, ‘well, collectible card games are a great idea, but they’re not for me’. We had some very passionate supporters within Blizzard but we also had people who said ‘I’m glad we’re doing it, but I don’t think it’s a game I’m excited about playing’.“When we announced it a couple of years ago people were asking if we knew what we were doing! But we’re very passionate CCG players, we always felt like it was an amazing game type - it actually felt strange that there weren’t more people playing. So we just said to ourselves, hey, let’s see if we can make a game for everyone.”
The nostalgics have won. That was the defining message of this year’s E3 expo in Los Angeles.Fans have been demanding Shenmue 3 for over a decade, while a Final Fantasy VII remake has been the stuff of spiky haired dreams since Square Enix started obsessively mining the series for spin-offs, reboots and sequels to sequels many years ago.So the fact that our prayers have been answered is terrific news, right? It’s better than Christmas. It’s the best thing that could ever conceivably happen. It’s... oh wait, we have fallen right into a nostalgia trap. Of course, there’s nothing wrong with wallowing in the quicksand of reminiscence, but it’s important to remember that sequels to, and remakes of, legendary titles will never realistically be able to live up to our expectations. It’s also worth thinking about why, after such a long time, these two games are coming out now.The answer is pretty simple – nostalgia sells and these days it has its own store: Kickstarter. Pillars of Eternity, the entirely fan-backed homage to Baldur’s Gate, earned $4m. Shenmue 3 raised $2m in under nine hours and is now at $3.5m. Over the years there have been dozens of campaigns to get Shenmue 3 released, but until Kickstarter participants had no real power or access to change Sega’s mind. Now Yu Suzuki has given at least the beginning of that power to the fanbase. If Square Enix had sought crowd funding for FFVII, we could expect a similar stratospheric figure.There have been reports that further investment for Shenmue will eventually come from Sony or other companies (though Yu Suzuki himself hasdenied this on the game’s Kickstarter page), but $2m in a day clearly signifies how much of a market there is for the game. The Final Fantasy VII remake will be published by Square Enix but the company already knows it is on to a winner: re-releases for Final Fantasy VII on Steam, and on the PC in general, have been met with profitable fanaticism. There’s a lot of love for this era of Final Fantasy (VI-X) but Final Fantasy VII has always been the focus, it’s the trump card.The thing is, what happens in the future? How far can this nostalgia industry go?For a long time, Final Fantasy VII all but defined the role-playing game (RPG) genre – especially in the West. It had a huge influence on my childhood and was one of the first games I played and fully understood. But that’s the thing, it was my childhood. Nostalgia binds personal memories with the games themselves to create a heady, though misleading concoction of joy. I’ve hoped year after year for these announcements, but I’m still very apprehensive. This is about more than the re-release of two old titles; it’s bringing a culture of gaming back into a world that, for better or worse, has moved on. Shenmue and Final Fantasy VII were very different experiences but they were both, in many ways, pioneers in their sectors and some of the most memorable moments of both games were the inane quirks which don’t fit neatly into the sleek user experiences we see in most games today.Indeed, by our contemporary standards, Shenmue and Final Fantasy VII were clunky and often unintuitive. In Final Fantasy VII moving could be confusing if you couldn’t clearly see where your character was or where you were trying to get to. Do we all remember climbing up to the Shinra offices and having to grab that swinging pole? That wasn’t fun. It was an atmospheric, gripping and inspiring scene but it wasn’t fun.Ditto for Shenmue where Ryo would often get stuck running into walls, wouldn’t turn properly or the game would provide intricate combat moves which you’d only rarely get to use. Both titles provided elaborate levelling systems and character progression that could, by and large, be ignored. The materia system in Final Fantasy VII was great but its finer points were rendered irrelevant due to the game’s relatively tame difficulty. Shenmue had alternate move-sets for dedicated players (flashback to spending four hours training Double Blow in a car park) but again there was no real need to do this.The feel of ShenmueWhat made Final Fantasy VII and Shenmue resonate with me was the atmosphere they created. I remember when I first played Final Fantasy VII I spent about fifteen minutes just standing on the train back from the first mission, the music, the sense that we’d just achieved something huge and should take a breath and relax, the dialogue... it was amazing. The graphics didn’t matter – each intricate detail of the train moving was enough to enthrall me.Shenmue’s level of detail was mind blowing at the time; it seemed to provide an accurate snapshot of Japan in the late 1980s with all the mundane rhythms of everyday life baked into a gripping narrative. Ryo had to get home before 11pm or his housekeeper would scold him the next day, he had to go to work, talk to people he didn’t like, engage inawkward conversations about sailors, as well as do exciting things like fight a gang and avenge his father. It was all part of the magic for me, playing in the game’s arcade and thinking “better head home in 10 minutes or I’ll be in trouble with Ine-san tomorrow”. It was a level of realism I’d never experienced in a game before and that’s why I have such fond memories of it.But the games I think of as classics may well be unapproachable, lacklustre and irrelevant to the current generation of gamer. Will this market find Shenmue’s hilariously “off” English dubbing endearing, would translation errors which became almost meme-like in the original Final Fantasy VII get the same warm reaction today? I doubt it. But then if nostalgia can fund and sustain a game, publishers don’t need to appeal to the demographic that will be horrified by the shortcomings of older titles. This is where there could be problems as two worlds collide: will shiny new reboots get wider appeal while alienating core fans apprehensive about overt changes to game systems? Or will the games be obsessively faithful to the past, ensuring that only committed fans will want to play them?And even the most ardent of nostalgics may well be disappointed. After years of lavish open-world spectaculars like Skyrim, Grand Theft Auto 5 and Witcher 3, will Shenmue and Finally Fantasy VII feel a teeny bit... anemic? There’s little replayability with either of them, after all. They’re both linear, fixed stories with limited worlds to explore. 1997-1999 wasn’t an era of DLC or additional content, Final Fantasy VII had its secrets (and secret they stayed unless you picked up a magazine with hints); Shenmue had options, but not a lot of real freedom.True, Pillars of Eternity proved that nostalgic games can still provide more content than most people have time for: in that game, if you finish every quest you can replay as a different character with a completely different background and see a whole new aspect of the story. Final Fantasy VII never offered that choice – there are many who would say it never should do. Beyond reliving a brilliant story and chasing secrets you may have missed in an earlier playthrough, there was no real reason to replay Final Fantasy VII. There might be an expectation that Shenmue 3 and a remade Final Fantasy VII should offer vast open worlds with randomly generated experiences written in such a way that don’t make them generic but, in my opinion, that would not be in the spirit of either game.I’m not saying this isn’t Super Christmas Time, I’m just saying we have to be realistic. The Final Fantasy VII remake trailer gave me goosebumps and I’m sure any Shenmue 3 promotional material (by this point even a graphically updatedRyu drinking a can of delicious soda) will have the same effect, but to avoid heartbreak and disappointment we have to wait to see what these games will actuallybe.I mean, although Final Fantasy: Advent Children carried the license and had most of the major characters in it, I didn’t find the experience that compelling or interesting. Obviously it was a film not a game and the story was contrary to a lot of what you experience in Final Fantasy VII, but all the glitz and updated CGI graphics couldn’t fill the void or hit me where the original Final Fantasy VII had.By all means get excited, but bear in mind it takes more than nostalgia to make a fulfilling game. And anyway, we can’t truly say our work is done until we have Half-Life 3. And a new Legacy of Kain. And... oh you get the point. The thing about nostalgia is, it’s never truly satisfied.
Facebook is still dominated by white men despite Mark Zuckerberg’s repeated promise to get serious about building a workforce that better reflects the diversity of its 1.4 billion global users.In itsdiversity reportreleased on Thursday the social network company revealed that more than half of its US staff are white, with the proportion dropping slightly from 57% to 55%. The proportion of Asian employees increased by 2% to 36%, but the shares of hispanic and black people or those of “two or more races” remained flat at 4%, 2% and 3% respectively.Facebook’s senior leadership is even more homogenous, with 73% of the most important positions filled by white people.The company did not provide a breakdown of the exact numbers of people of different ethnicities in different ranks at the firm. It is required to do so by US law, but a spokeswoman said there is a lag in filling the Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) report.The most recentEEO filingavailable shows Facebook hired an additional seven black people out of an overall headcount increase of 1,231 in 2013. At that time Facebook employed just 45 black staff out of a total US workforce of 4,263. Facebook’s black female headcount increased by just one person over 2013 to 11, and the number of black men increased by six to 34. There were no black people in any executive or senior management positions.Over the same period the company’s white employee headcount increased by 695. There were 125 white people holding executive and senior management positions at the firm.The spokeswoman was unable to say when it would file its 2014 EEO report.Facebook also made little progress increasing the proportion of female employees, 68% of its global employees are male – a decrease of 1%. Among its employees working on its core technology 84% are male, down from 85% last year.The slow progress on improving diversity comes despite Zuckerberg repeatedly promising to make the company’s employees better reflect the identities of its users. When Facebook releasedits first diversity reportMaxine Williams, its global head of diversity, said: “At Facebook, diversity is essential to achieving our mission.“We need a team that understands and reflects many different communities, backgrounds and cultures. Research also shows that diverse teams are better at solving complex problems and enjoy more dynamic workplaces. So at Facebook we’re serious about building a workplace that reflects a broad range of experience, thought, geography, age, background, gender, sexual orientation, language, culture and many other characteristics.”Inthe latest diversity reportWilliams admitted that “it’s clear to all of us that we still aren’t where we want to be”.“There’s more work to do. We remain deeply committed to building a workplace that reflects a broad range of experience, thought, geography, age, background, gender, sexual orientation, language, culture and many other characteristics,” she said. It’s a big task, one that will take time to achieve, but our whole company continues to embrace this challenge.”In May Zuckerberg said: “We have the same talent bar for everyone. But we want to find a disproportionate number of candidates who are women and minorities.”He has also saidthat there is “just so much research that shows that diverse teams perform better at anything you’re trying to do”.“It’s this problem because it’s not even clear where you would start attacking it. You need to start earlier in the funnel so that girls don’t self-select out of doing computer science education, but at the same time, one of the big reasons why today we have this issue is that there aren’t a lot of women in the field today.”
The broadband space race has received a $500m boost after Airbus, Coca-Cola and Virgin Group joined other funders in backing a venture to bring the internet to the most remote corners of the planet.OneWeb, based in the channel island of Jersey but with offices in California and Washington DC, plans to send 648 micro-satellites into space by 2019. These will do away with the expense of installing mobile phone masts or laying miles of cables, instead beaming a broadband signal direct to small, solar-powered user terminals on the ground.As well as helping to fund the project, Airbus has been commissioned to build 900 micro-satellites designed byOneWeb– the total including a surplus for spares and upgrades.The venture will involve the largest single commercial rocket acquisition in history, with France’s Arianespace commissioned to build 65 rockets and Sir Richard Branson’s Virgin Galactic space venture contributing 39 launches.Founded by the satellite entrepreneur Greg Wyler, OneWeb is racing Facebook, Google and Elon Musk’s SpaceX to be the first to create a global scale broadband network in the sky.“The dream of fully bridging the digital divide is on track to be a reality in 2019,” said Wyler. “We are excited about the next phase, which will involve working with countries, telecom operators and aid organisations to help them realise their goals of open and ubiquitous access.”Airbus chief executive Tom Enders and Sunil Bharti Mittal, founder of Indian conglomerate Bharti, will join Richard Branson and Qualcomm executive chairman Paul Jacobs on the OneWeb board of directors.A dizzying array of technologies from Google’s helium balloons, Facebook’s solar powered gliders, plus rockets and miniature satellites are being put to the test by competing ventures, but their ultimate goal is the same: to create a constellation of transmitters permanently orbiting the earth.By beaming from the sky, the hope is that an internet connection will be easily available anywhere from the outer Hebrides to the Mongolian steppe. Villages in developing countries could benefit, as could rural mobile blackspots and urban canyons – streets bordered by skyscrapers where the mobile signal has difficulty penetrating.The other five companies investing in OneWeb’s first round of funding, announced on Thursday, are Bharti Enterprises, which operates mobile networks in 20 countries across Asia and Africa, the US satellite broadband group Hughes Network Systems, satellite phone group Intelsat, chip maker Qualcomm and Mexican TV, telecoms and banking conglomerate Grupo Salinas. The total cost is expected to reach $3bn.“Our vision is to make the internet affordable for everyone, connecting remote areas to the rest of the world and helping to raise living standards and prosperity in some of the poorest regions today,” said Branson.Alongside a craft designed to take tourists into space, Virgin Galactic is developing a rocket designed to carry cargo beyond the earth’s atmosphere. However, theLauncherOne rockethas yet to take its first flight, while its tourist craft SpaceShipTwo broke up during a test flight over the Mojave desert last year.Arianespace has an established business lifting heavy full size satellites into orbit using the Russian made Soyuz launcher. OneWeb has designed satellites, orbiting at 750 miles above the earth, which weigh less than 150 kilograms. These are designed to be mass produced using an assembly line approach at a cost of$500,000each, significantly less than the larger satellites already in use, which typically cost $250m and can weigh 5000kg.OneWeb has also designed user terminals, measuring two feet across and 1 foot tall, which can be powered by solar panels or from the mains. They receive the signal from the satellites and pass it on via wifi, but also 4G, 3G and 2G broadband and voice mobile phone signals. The system will be capable of delivering speeds of up to 50 megabits per second – as fast as a typical cable broadband service.Wyler briefly worked at Google on the software giant’s own satellite internet project, and previously founded the still operationalO3b Networks, which also offers space broadband and has already launched its first satellites. O3b clients include Digicel in Papua New Guinea, Royal Caribbean Cruises and Bharti in East Timor.As well as reaching homes and businesses on the ground, OneWeb’s signals could be beamed out to Airbus aeroplanes, ships and emergency vehicles, which would have terminals fixed to their roofs.
The halls of diplomacy cultivate a special kind of patience. In conference rooms and annexes, idealism doesn’t so much burn out as diffuse – splintered by endless meetings and dull documents. “We hoped for more,” younger selves cry. “But we were doomed to cooperate.”One of Brussels’ cooperation efforts that has been running the longest is the European antitrust case against Google. Complaints that Google prioritises its own services in manipulating search results, abusing its dominant position over 90% of the search market, started rumbling eight years ago and were formalised in 2009. The European commission opened an inquiry, and 20 organisations added complaints, ranging across Google’s methods of modifying search, scraping content, slicing advertising, and making exclusive data deals.After five painful years, punctuated by three controversial, failed settlement attempts between Google and former competition chief Joaquín Almunia, the case shifted up a gearthis April. Almunia’s straight-shooting replacement, Margrethe Vestager,issuedGoogle with a formal notice, termed a “statement of objection”. Deliberately shedding Brussels’ laggardly image, Vestager zeroed in on the best, narrowest case she could find: that Google uses its dominance in search to promote its own services in Google Shopping, diminishing the visibility of potentially cheaper results to consumers. She gave Google 10 weeks to respond.Those 10 weeks have now passed. Where are we now, and where are we going?Deadline already extendedSpeaking on the would-be deadline of 24 June, Vestagerconfirmedthat the 10 week cut off had already been extended by a fortnight, since Google had not received all the documents. And do not expect any announcements or official reveals soon. Further timeextensionsare likely. And even then, the official details of the charges, evidence and responses will remain top-secret, limited to the immediate parties to the case. Leaks are expected, but nobody wants to be the first to move.Starting aweek ago, the complainants started receiving copies of the statement of objection. They will respond over the coming month. The expectation is that, by the end of July, the commission will have all the documents it needs. Over summer, junior competition lawyers will sort out the finer details of the case. Google can choose whether to go through a hearing, which will give complainants further opportunities to present their case as well as to hear Google. Google will critique the methodology, claim that its products have moved on, and continue topoint tothe flourishing competitive environment in which it operates. But by the end of the year, we are likely to have a decision.Where are we goingIt is important to keep the entire European investigation in perspective. Vestager has two priorities. The first is to set a precedent, which complainants can then take to national courts and try their hand fighting over the search verticals of maps, flights, holidays, etc. The second is to get Google to take action itself. She hopes this will happen by imposing a fine that could have a “deterrent effect”. Then she wants the Google file off her desk.This makes the commission’s case rather miniscule in the wider scheme for competitors and consumers. The case will shed no light on Google’s scraping and consolidation of data, nor its role in manipulating advertising markets. This is partly because Vestager, shaking up Brussels’ patient environment, has chosen a narrow and targeted action, rather than robust and visionary change. But more fundamentally, it’s because competition law isill-equippedto deal with monopolies of the digital age.Google dominates search. It consolidatesmore data– more maps over the territory of knowledge – than any other online player. But dominance, and consolidation of data sets, are not what competition law cares about. What matters for competition is, increasingly, “effects” – whether business practices lead to the foreclosure or flight from the market of equally efficient competitors. Economics here don’t tell the full story ofGoogle’s effecton the digital landscape, and of the concerns that could, andshould, animate regulators and the public. If the law did capture those concerns, it would be as rigorous in looking at the damaging effects of vertical integration, as it is in looking at horizontal collusion. Without this, Google’s monopoly, self-reinforcing through the flow of data that only it can access and exploit, remainsuntouchable, and the world is doomed to cooperate.
Apple has removed a whole swathe of historical war games from the App Store because they feature the Confederate flag.The games, which include Ultimate General: Gettysburg, Civil War: 1862, and Civil War the Battle Game, were removed by the firm “because they feature images of the Confederate flag in offensive and mean-spirited ways”,according to industry site TouchArcade.Apple cited its app store review guidelines in a letter to affected developers, stating: “Apps containing references or commentary about a religious, cultural or ethnic group that are defamatory, offensive, mean-spirited or likely to expose the targeted group to harm or violence will be rejected.”The company appears to be following the lead of retail establishments such as WalMart, which has recently announced that it will no longer sell the Confederate flag in the wake of the Charleston shooting.But the majority of the affected games are relatively staid turn-based strategy games, using the Confederate flag in the appropriate historical context to represent the forces of the Confederate army. “We’re in no way sympathetic to the use of the flag in an offensive way, we used it purely because historically that was the flag that was used at the time,” the developer of Civil War: 1862 told TouchArcade.Games featuring the Nazi flag remain available on the App Store; and unlike the removed civil war games, many do not claim historical accuracy. In Wolfenstein 3D, players storm a Nazi castle before killing a robot Hitler.The game is £1.49 on iPhone and iPad.Elsewhere on the iTunes store, Apple continues to sellPrimal Scream’s Give Out But Don’t Give Up,Legend by Lynyrd Skynyrdandall seven seasons of Dukes of Hazzard.The Guardian has asked Apple for comment.
Privacy advocates have attacked a plan to end anonymity for website owners saying it will put users at risk of harassment and identity theft.Currently, in order to register a web address a user must provide contact details, but many domain registration services offer the ability to keep this information private.Domain registrars do this by providing their own contact details for Whois queries – the directory look-up for web addresses. Icann, the body which co-ordinates the internet’s infrastructure, has proposedan end to that system, making any site used for “commercial services”ineligible for proxy registrations.The Electronic Frontier Foundation, which opposes the proposal, is arguing that the risks to website owners, which is says will suffer a “higher risk of harassment, intimidation and identity theft”, outweigh any benefits of the change.“The ability to speak anonymously protects people with unpopular or marginalised opinions, allowing them to speak and be heard without fear of harm. It also protects whistleblowers who expose crime, waste, and corruption,” it says.Icann’s proposal is backed by the US entertainment industry, which has long been critical of anonymity online. In testimony before Congress, Steven Metalitz of the Coalition for Online Accountability said in May that: “Tens of millions of [domain] registrations … lurk in the shadows of the public Whois, through a completely unregulated proxy registration system that is the antithesis of transparency.”Metalitz added: “These registrations need to be brought into the sunlight. While there is a legitimate role for proxy registrations in limited circumstances, the current system is manipulated to make it impossible to identify or contact those responsible for abusive domain name registrations.”The Coalition for Online Accountability is formed of six copyright industry bodies, representing the music, gaming, software and film industries, as well as Time Warner and Disney.Domain registrar Namecheap has begun to encourage supporters to email Icann and object to the proposal. It’s put togetherRespectOurPrivacy.com, and is offering to call people to walk them through the process.“We think your privacy should be protected, regardless of whether your website is personal or commercial, and your confidential info should not be revealed without due process. If you agree, it’s time to tell Icann,” the site explains.
Social service Pinterest has doubled its number of users in the UK in the past year as Britons “pinned” 1.6bn items with DIY and recipes among their favourite topics.The US-based visual bookmarking site launched in 2010 and debuted a British-English version in 2013, with a London office focused on working with local brands and users.According to Pinterest, its users are particularly keen on DIY, with 52% looking for that, while 46% search for recipes. In terms of building their own boards, 37% are planning home decorations, 17% a holiday and 14% a wedding.“We see a lot of similarities between the UK and elsewhere in the world, although gardening is much more prominent in the UK,” co-founder Evan Sharp told the Guardian.The company has taken steps to tap into UK culture, setting up partnerships with brands like Manchester United, Waitrose and Marks and Spencer.Related:Pinterest 2015: men, mobile, and Apple Watch – but definitely not a social networkPinterest does not disclose how many British users it has but Sharp said that it sees “about 3m pins a” day in the UK. The research firm comScore estimates that in May 2015, it attracted 10.3 million unique visitors in the UK: 54% only visiting from a mobile device, 34% only from a computer, and 12% using both.Pinterest is notably seen as a female-focused serviceand seems to be making efforts to appeal to a wider audience. Its head of international, Matt Crystal, said: “Some people might have found it surprising that we did a partnership with Manchester United, but for us it makes perfect sense: whether you’re interested in women’s fashion or football, we have a home for that content.”Under its new UK country manager – former Facebook and Google executive Adele Cooper – Pinterest will be trying to get more British companies and brands using its service, even though it has yet to launch commercial features like promoted pins (advertising) and buyable pins (e-commerce) in the UK.Pinterest’s buyable pins feature, which is about to launch in the US.Buyable pins are due to launch in the US imminently, with big retailers like Macy’s, Neiman Marcus and Nordstrom on board for launch, along with independent stores.Their products will feature blue price tags, with Pinterest users able to click or tap through to buy them using a credit card or – on iOS devices – the Apple Pay mobile payments system.“It’s about making Pinterest more useful really – making it easy when you find something good to buy it – rather than it is about revenue in the short term,” said Sharp, who stressed that Pinterest will not be taking a revenue share of these sales.Related:The top 50 apps for creative mindsThe plans for buyable pins have sparked controversy among some pinners, coming months afterPinterest started automatically removing “affiliate links, redirects and trackers” from pinson the service – links that some people had been using to earn money when visitors bought the products they had pinned.Although Pinterest said the change in policy was to cut down on “irrelevant pins in feeds, broken links and other spammy behaviour”, when itannounced buyable pins in June, there weresuggestionsthat the company had blocked pinners from making money so that it could build its own shopping business.“We’re not getting a cut ourselves from buyable pins, and that’s very intentional. We could have gone the other way. Pinterest isn’t taking a cut, and I don’t know why users would take a cut either right now,” said Sharp when asked by the Guardian.“The last thing I want is users trying to game some affiliate system and making a bunch of very inauthentic boards just to try and get a little bit of money.”
Apple’s early-adopting, outspoken co-founder Steve Wozniak thinks humans will be fine if robots take over the world because we’ll just become their pets.After previously stating that a robotic future powered by artificial intelligence (AI) would be“scary and very bad for people”and that robots would “get rid of the slow humans”, Wozniak has staged a U-turn and says he now thinks robots taking over would be good for the human race.“They’re going to be smarter than us and if they’re smarter than us then they’ll realise they need us,” Wozniak saidat the Freescale technology forumin Austin. “We want to be the family pet and be taken care of all the time.”“I got this idea a few years ago and so I started feeding my dog filet steak and chicken every night because ‘do unto others’,” he said.Science fiction has been a surprisingly good predictor of technological development, from Star Trek’s tablet computers to the Demolition Man’s self-driving cars. Whether Terminator’s prediction of an advanced AI wiping out the human race is likely to stay fiction is open for debate.Some of the most high-profile technology pioneers and the greatest minds of science including Elon Musk, Bill Gates and Stephen Hawking have warned of the dangers of AI.Muskinvested $10m of his own moneyinto an AI firm so that he could keep an eye on it, describing the technology as “our biggest existential threat”.Others, including co-founder of Google’s advanced AI company DeepMind Mustafa Suleyman say that the technology is already with us, working on our smartphones and computers and that they aresimply “production breakthroughs”.For Wozniak, it will be “hundreds of years” before AI is capable of taking over, but that by the time it does it will no longer be a threat to our existence: “They’ll be so smart by then that they’ll know they have to keep nature, and humans are part of nature. I got over my fear that we’d be replaced by computers. They’re going to help us. We’re at least the gods originally.”•Yes, androids do dream of electric sheep•Computer says no: Amazon uses AI to combat fake reviews
Gangnam Style made South Korean rapper Psy a global star, with nearly 2.4bn views of the YouTube video since its release in July 2012. Now he’s extending his digital fame into mobile game Crossy Road.The game, which has attracted more than 90 million players since its launch in November 2014, has focused on Korean pop culture for its latest update, including a playable Psy.Related:Crossy Road: new characters include British and Irish figures – and The DressHe’ll cost $2.99 as an in-app purchase within the Frogger-inspired road-crossing game, with some of his signature moves – yes, including the horse-dancing one – and a new scoring system involving triggering music samples by stepping on dance-pads.Psy’s new level is based on the Gangnam area of Seoul that inspired his biggest hit, with the update including nine other new Korean characters including a taekwondo master, a professional gamer, a K-drama actor and a plate of Kimchi.According to the game’s developer Hipster Whale and publisher Yodo1, Psy will be available to buy for three months only, although once bought he’ll be playable forever in the game.This is the latest in a series of updates for Crossy Road based on specific countries, designed to boost its appeal around the world.The Korean pack follows an Australian-themed update in January based on Hipster Whale’s home country; Chinese New Year characters in February; then aBritish and Irish update in Aprilfeaturing a Queen’s guard, a Scottish piper and a packet of fish and chips.Psy’s Crossy Road level includes a new dance-pad scoring system.Crossy Road has been one of the breakout mobile hits of recent times, reaching 50m downloads by early March, 70m a month later, and 90m now in late June.The game is free to play, but makes its money from a mixture of in-app purchases of characters and revenues from video advertisements, which players can watch to earn virtual currency to unlock characters without paying.Related:Mobile game Crossy Road has made $10m in three months since launchThe game made Hipster Whale $10min its first three months after release, including $3m from the video ads, which the company’s co-founder Matt Hall has said enabled it to swerve some of the money-making techniques of other freemium mobile games.“If you make a game that’s only about business, you’re going to get Candy Crush clones... Obviously, $10m is fantastic. That’s way, way, way, way, way more than we thought we would get,” Hall told Polygon in March.“But someone on the free-to-play business would look at those numbers and think we could make a lot more per user. But, if we changed it … if we followed some of those best practices … if we sold coins and had a ‘save-me’ button and it felt like the other games, would anyone have cared?”
Raise your hands and scream if you remember “interactive movies”. The games industry has foisted some awful fads upon us over the last 40 years, but the full motion video (FMV) games of the early 1990s are among the worst. From the stodgy teen horror of Sega’s Night Trap to the blink-and-you’ll-complete-it brevity of Critical Path, it turned out that non-interactivity and Z-list B-movie footage was a bad combination.Two decades later,Her Storyis a new breed of narrative game that does looks suspiciously like an interactive movie. You play an anonymous protagonist looking at an internal police computer. The terminal has been unlocked by a friend, you’ve been left alone, and it contains several hundred interview clips concerning a fictional 1994 murder case.The challenge is basically to work out what’s going on. You search this database using keywords, and after watching a clip can annotate, tag and set aside the particularly interesting ones. The first few snippets offer up many avenues to explore, which is just as well because you come to this case cold – no idea who the victim was, who the woman being interviewed is, or any other details.The interviews are timestamped, so it’s easy to keep the chronology straight, but working out how and why Seifert’s character answers in the way she does is the real challengePhotograph: Sam BarlowThis opening half hour is perhaps Her Story’s smartest trick, because it lets the player fool themselves into thinking they are Columbo. Before I knew the name of the interviewee I’d exhaustively tracked down every reference to a local shop, made obsessive notes on her glasses, and come up with a (completely bogus) working theory of what happened and whodunnit. The shop and glasses are illustrative red herrings, by the way, because the whole point of Her Story is finding out what you need to find out.Her Story’s possible interactions are few and simple – anyone who’s ever used a computer could play. The complexity is in the mental challenge, as you grasp at the threads of this tangled web and begin to unweave them without ever being quite sure what’s at the centre. Her Story has a great narrative at the core, but what seriously elevates the game is an ingenious method of unravelling that narrative through pure interactivity. It’s not just that the story is fragmentary, and thus ambiguous, or that it contains well-hidden twists. It’s that you are the one assembling these fragments, and can go off in any direction your curiosity demands at any time.Which makes Her Story that most rare of beasts, a great narrative-focused videogame. And while all the writing credit goes to creator Sam Barlow, what seals the deal is a wide-ranging performance from Viva Seifert that funnels her character’s inner life into hundreds of intense vignettes. The clips are mostly between 10 and 20 seconds long, with a few running over a minute, and such a structure means this is anything but a typical performance.I recently watched The Jinx, a wonderful HBO documentary about alleged murderer Robert Durst, and a huge part of the show’s appeal was Durst’s remarkable face: hangdog, craggy, and capable of the most bizarre contortions under questioning. I was fascinated by his tics and coughs and odd phraseology. You could not watch the Jinx and resist, at some level, becoming intimately interested in Robert Durst’s physiognomy.Viva Seifert creates a fictional character with something of the same allure: clearly very intelligent, clearly not telling the whole truth, and full of physical quirks. At first the appeal is simple voyeurism. The whole game is spent staring at this woman as she discusses intimate details of her life and relationships, and though the details may be salacious or sinister, Seifert’s delivery is usually matter-of-fact and emotionally convincing. As you build up an idea of the character’s life, she becomes more real, and your searches become more focused. It is a very queasy sort of satisfaction when, on a hunch, you type a word such as “abortion” into the box and find multiple entries.Part of this performance is that the interviews are actually seven different interviews, and the character’s appearance changes drastically between them. In one of the earlier interviews, for example, she wears a low-cut blouse and a pendulous necklace that draws the eye downwards. This isn’t especially remarkable until you’ve seen a few clips from this specific interview, and realise the outfit is part of a new approach to the police. Put so baldly this may seem crass, but there’s much more to this behaviour than a clumsy attempt at seduction. The player’s realisation of what’s going on is gradual and, thanks to the disconnected nature of the clips, it’s easy to miss the bigger picture.The screen filter applies lens glare and physical scratchiness to the display, helping further cement the VHS vibe. It can be turned off if preferred, but is a surprisingly big part of the ambiancePhotograph: Sam BarlowAs well as giving Seifert’s talent a worthy stage, Her Story’s interview setup has one more clever consequence for the game’s design: it places you in the role of watcher rather than interrogator. Games often frustrate in the latter respect by not giving the option to ask what you want to ask, whereas here that’s simply not a consideration. It’s not exactly a solution, but it has the not-inconsiderable benefit of avoiding the problem entirely.Her Story’s the type of game that had me playing along with a notebook – drawing lines connecting the protagonists, noting down new clues, and circling words then forgetting why. The user interface is perfect for what it’s trying to do: convince the player that they’re sitting at an older PC in a police station, looking through videos they shouldn’t be. The effect goes so far as to include artificial screen glare from the room’s strip lights, brief glimpses of your character’s face in the monitor, and easter eggs dotted around the desktop.You could look over videogame history and pick out antecedents for some of what Her Story does but, even so, I’ve never played anything quite like it. It’s a murder case where you’re in the detective’s chair, a mystery where you make the running, and an engrossing experience from start to finish. With this we should consign the term “interactive movie” to history’s dustbin, because movies can’t dream of offering audiences a narrative structure as intimate and involving as this: they’re just moving pictures. Her Story points to the future.Sam Barlow; PC/Mac/iPhone/iPad; £5
Note: this is a review of the PlayStation 4 version of Arkham Knight. The PC versionhas been withdrawnfrom sale by Warner Bros owing to technical issues. This review should not be considered a reflection of the PC version of the game.If Arkham Knight really is the end for developer Rocksteady Studios and the Dark Knight, at least the two are parting on a high. Not only has this development team polished its series game mechanics to near-perfection, it has also reached a perfect understanding of this grimy comic book world.The bold story-telling steps Rocksteady made with 2011’s Arkham City have been retained in interesting, subversive ways. The characters are multi-dimensional and complex, while delivering all the action and bravado that you want from a superhero adventure. And while the titular villain is more stroppy adolescent than brooding menace, Arkham Knight’s supporting cast – which I shan’t spoil - work tirelessly to create a compelling plot. Arkham Knight consistently delivers brilliant and unexpected moments that delve deep into the Batman’s mentality, pushing him to breaking point.Under the perpetually stormy skies of Gotham City, the Caped Crusader is put through trial after trial; test after test. This is a game about madness, about prevailing darkness and about heroesfailing.The horror of failure is something Batman succumbs to, and is punished with, at major points throughout Arkham Knight’s 10-12 hour storyline. It’s gripping – sometimes almost unpleasantly so – to see through to the end.There’s a large cast of impressively rounded (and usually damaged) characters on both sides of the lawPhotograph: Warner BrosBuilding on the open-world structure that Arkham City debuted in 2011, Knight is simply an expansion of that vision. This new Gotham is a large trifecta of distinct areas, each with their own neighbourhoods and interesting sights, stretching from a gothic city underbelly, to the gleam of cloud-piercing skyscrapers. Much like its predecessors, Arkham Knight’s world feels expansive but handcrafted, rich with detail and teeming with stuff to find, whether that’s clues to cases, nods to DC lore, or the hundreds of Riddler trophies waiting to be solved.This freedom is the real reason to buy Arkham Knight. It’s a marketing tagline to end all taglines, butBe The Batmanperfectly sums up what’s on offer here. Whether you’re beating up thugs, soaring through rain-battered skies, leaping from Wayne Tower or roaring through Gotham’s wide streets in the Batmobile, almost everything in Arkham Knight is empowering.Most impressively, Rocksteady not only makes these elements satisfying in their own right, but majestically strings them together. A few hours into the game, I had upgraded my Batmobile to allow for a more powerful ejector seat function. I was mid-melee, clobbering foes and stringing together combos with ease using the improved combat system. I landed a perfect counter attack, upper-cutting an irksome thug into the air before enabling the Batmobile’s remote cannon as a brutal non-fatal combo finisher.At the tap of a button I summoned my ride, jumped up and slid into the cockpit in one slick animation, darting off down the street with the afterburner searing. As Gotham’s dense skyline parted for just long enough to reveal the moonlit clouds, I ejected from the driving seat and launched high into the air - a bolt of lightning cascaded down the center of the screen and illuminated my wings in a bluey-black hue. Wondrous.This is the kind of Batman experience that Arkham Knight refines, and it is truly the best it’s ever been. Getting into fistfights with three-dozen criminals, scanning for clues, investigating leads, solving puzzles and more. It’s a stretch to say that any of this stuff isnew, but the familiarity is more an encouraging warmth than a stale chill.Arkham Knight sets up its side content in interesting ways, pacing new leads as you progress instead of just dumping dozens upon dozens of mission markers on to your map at any one time. Your mission wheel keeps track of everything, and selecting a different quest to focus on sparks neat conversational cues between Batman and Alfred, allowing you to always keep track of the context of each mission and where you are in its plot. It’s simple but really effective, and much more organic than the overly apparent percentage completion markers that hang over each segment of your mission wheel.You’ll track down mutated monsters, investigate the ongoing gruesome murders of a mysterious serial killer, put a stop to ongoing bank heists, and more. All of these require you to be aware of your surroundings – a burning building, a flaming bat symbol on rooftops, or the sudden cacophony of some operatic music nearby may indicate you should investigate. It’s often a bit vague – Arkham Knight really does let you loose and free, and in a world this size it’s not as easily readable as the more dense Arkham City – but the thrill of chasing the majority of these clues is still intoxicating. Some side mission threads are slightly arbitrary ‘retake the city’ objectives like tower takeovers and tank chases, but they make enough out of the game’s individual mechanics – its combat, its freedom and its movement – to still be enjoyable.The final piece of the puzzle that really completes The Batman Experience is the Batmobile – Arkham Knight’s one trulynewplaything. The vehicle essentially boils down to two modes, “car” and “tank”, and it’s an addition of two distinct halves, both of varying success.As a traversal tool used to roar down Gotham’s wider streets, it’s a strong and exciting addition to your arsenal that never becomes superior to flying. Driving it around the city is surprisingly streamlined, thanks to simple controls and the fact that you can boulder through pretty much any object and watch it crumble. Activating it in combat as a remote ally is excellent fun, and the numerous chase sequences are a great way of testing your driving skills and seeing just how much collateral damage you can rack up.Although charging through the streets of Gotham in the Batmobile is fun, the vehicle’s combat role is a little intrusive and unbalancedPhotograph: Warner BrosAs a tank used for combat, Rocksteady overuses it to its detriment. It’s a tool that’s forced upon you too often and in repetitive ways. The Arkham series has always been at its best when it’s up close and personal, and the Batmobile only serves to distance the player from the game’s gristle. You’ll take down unmanned drone tanks in all-out street combat and it’s a visually impressive affair with flashy neon explosions and slow-mo Burnout-style car takedowns, but halfway through the game you’re forced to stealth-kill Cobra tanks which are by far the game’s most frustrating, least Batman-like offering. The only real downside to a wonderfully polished experience.As a culmination of three games worth of heroes and villains, Arkham Knight is a resounding delight. Rocksteady’s understanding of Batman and his universe is deliberate and convicted, and the game’s only real missteps stem from a rare misjudgment from Rocksteady about what makes this series so involving. The studio’s desire to expand just that little step too far is the only real tarnish on an exemplary superhero experience.Arkham Knight triumphs as a richly empowering comic book fantasy that sees its herofailalmost as much as he succeeds, making him the most believable, the most occasionally unlikeable, and ultimately the most heroic he’s ever been.Warner Bros; PS4 (version tested)/ Xbox One; £50; Pegi rating: 18
If I upgrade from Windows 7 to Windows 10, will I lose Office 2010 – which I paid for and installed – and other programs?WolfIn most cases, Windows 10 will be installed as an “in place” upgrade via Windows Update, which is usually used to install security patches. All your existing software should remain in place and should continue to work, with a few exceptions. However, upgrades sometimes go wrong, so back-up your PC first. Also, make sure you have a copy of yourOffice Product Key. If you have lost the original packaging,Belarc Advisorand many other utilities will find the product keys stored on your PC.The few exceptions? Windows 10 will remove Windows Media Center, Windows 7’s gadgets (clock, etc), Windows 7 games (Solitaire, Hearts, Minesweeper – already removed from Windows 8), and the OneDrive application from Windows Live Essentials. You can download free replacements from the Windows Store. If you need the PVR (personal video recorder) features in Windows Media Center, thenMedia Portalis one alternative. If you just want a simple video player, I likeMPC-HC(Media Player Classic – Home Cinema), butVLCwill do the job. All three are open source and free. However, I expect Microsoft will ship a player along with other upgrades to Windows 10.Will it run XP programs?I have some old XP programs running in a virtual machine in Windows 7. I really do not want to upgrade them, and some are not available for newer iterations of Windows.DavidWindows 10 will run most old Windows programs. You can check compatibility by running GWX, the Get Windows 10 app (the white Windows icon in your taskbar). Microsoft doesn’t have information on every program or device created for Windows, but it does have a comprehensive list of known compatibility issues. However, XP programs that didn’t run in Windows 7 are unlikely to run in Windows 10.Microsoft provided a free copy of Windows XP to run in XP Mode in Windows 7 Pro. This gave you several years to transition to updated programs, but it was never intended to be a permanent solution. XP Mode wasn’t provided with Windows 8 Pro, and XP is no longer supported, so you really can’t expect it in Windows 10 Pro.You can continue to use XP in your current Windows 7 system until 2020, at your own risk. Alternatively, you could run XP in a virtual machine in Windows 10, or use a separate XP PC that, ideally, never connects to the net. But, eventually, you will have to move on….Store-based activationI built my own PC two years ago and am thinking of changing my processor. Will I need to buy a new copy of Windows or a new license since the registration key is tied to the motherboard? If Microsoft allows the free upgrade to Windows 10 to be burned to disc, and provides a registration key, will I be able to switch the motherboard and install Windows 10 just like a new copy of Windows 7 or 8.1?CoryTricky question. I asked Microsoft UK, which said: “If a customer has already taken the upgrade, they will be able to clean install back to Windows 10 because their device will have been provisioned with the new store-based license. No product key interaction required. Just ‘Skip Key’ and it’ll activate once installed.”So, keep your current system, and do an “in place” upgrade to Windows 10. Use a Microsoft identity – such as an Outlook.com or Hotmail email address – to create your Administrator account to access the online Windows Store. The store-based license key will supersede the registration key that is locked to your PC’s motherboard. After that, you can change the motherboard, check that activation still works, then do a clean installation to a new drive.Limited internet connectionsMy only internet connection is a Verizon MiFi, which can download 5GB per month. The Windows 10 download would take ages and kill our month. Will there be a way to get a DVD?LaddMicrosoft says: “We’ll have options available for users who can’t download through Windows Update.” These options have yet to be announced.Using a Microsoft IDI am a Windows 10 Preview user. When Microsoft releases the final version, will we have choices such as not having to have an Outlook account? I currently use another mail program, with which I am quite happy.CharlesSee above: you will need to set up a Microsoft account, such as an Outlook.com email address, with access to the Windows Store, which records your app downloads and looks after your licences. You don’t have to give Outlook.com any details you don’t choose to provide, and you don’t have to use it for email. It’s not really any different from having a Google Account (with access to Gmail and the Google Play store) or an Apple ID (required for iCloud, iTunes, iBooks, the App Store, FaceTime, Messages, iCloud.com and more).In Microsoft’s case, the integration of Windows 10 PC and phone settings with the Windows Store, OneDrive and the free Office apps is so convenient that it makes no sense to avoid it. The real question is whether you can use an anonymous way to pay for anything you buy.Windows 10 forever?We’ve all heard talk of Windows staying at version 10 forever and that it is moving to a “Windows as a Service” business model. Can you clarify what that means?WhileyMicrosoft says: “Our business model for Windows is not changing, and we will continue to charge license fees for our Windows software through our OEM partners [ie PC manufacturers]. We have no plans to charge consumers a subscription for Windows 10. We will continue to keep it up to date for the supported lifetime of the device – introducing new features and functionality over time – at no cost.”Obviously, Microsoft didn’t comment on your “version 10 forever”, but it could be like Apple’s Mac OS X, which is also staying at “version 10 forever”. The drawback is that users are more or less forced to keep upgrading, and Apple rapidly abandons those who don’t.By contrast, Microsoft will havethree branches of Windows 10. The Consumer Branch (CB) will be updated monthly, but business users can choose a CBB (Current Business Branch) or a Long-Term Servicing Branch (LTSB). The CBB will be updated four months after the CB, by which time any bugs should have been shaken out. The LTSB will be updated with a new snapshot every two or three years, but users will be able to delay updates for up to 10 years.Why is it free?Why are we getting a FREE upgrade?AllenMicrosoft is giving up some money from the relatively small number of people who buy Windows upgrades. In return, it hopes to get most people using the same version of Windows, rather than having roughly 1.6 billion users spread over Windows XP (which still has more users than Mac OS X), Vista, Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 8.1, and Windows Phone.Many businesses will stick with Windows 7, but moving to Windows 10 gets you off the treadmill of rolling out expensive corporate upgrades every three or six years. It could even avoid the insanity of incompetent government organisations paying vast sums to keep running obsolete and vulnerable 14-year-old operating system code.Microsoft will also benefit from creating a bigger market for Windows Store apps, written to the newWindows Runtimerather than the old Win32 API (applications programming interface). Windows Runtime apps are sandboxed for security, easy to install and uninstall, and easier to control. (They’re much more like Apple iPad apps, except they multi-task, can run in resizable windows, etc.)Google Android and Apple iOS apps can fairly easily be converted to “Universal apps” that run on Windows 10, Windows phones and tablets, and the Xbox One games console.Finally, Windows 10 will bolster the Microsoft ecosystem built around Windows, Office 365, Outlook.com, OneDrive and Azure. With Windows 10, your Microsoft ID will be much like your Google ID (for Android devices) or your Apple ID (for iOS devices). Microsoft’s ecosystem aims to compete by offering better online and cross-platform support than either Apple or Google: it already has dozens of apps on Android and iOS.Ask Jack has had an unprecedented number of questions about Windows 10. If yours isn’t answered here, seeMicrosoft Windows 10 free upgrade: five questions answeredandMicrosoft Windows 10 free upgrade: 10 more of your questions answeredHave you got another question? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
Warner Brothers have pulled the PC version of Batman: Arkham Knight from sale, after widespread reports of massive technical issues with the game.Released on Tuesday for PC, PS4 and Xbox One, the game has been well received by critics, with an 89% rating on aggregation site Metacritic. But the PC version has been repeatedly criticised for performance issues.A Reddit thread detailsmultiple gamers having issues, with frame-rate dropping below 30 even on ultra-high-spec computers.Related:Batman Arkham Knight review – a richly empowering comic book fantasy“Am I just unlucky or is this looking like a shaky port?” asked Reddit user AlphaPot.Now, it appears Warner Brothers, the game’s publisher, agrees. In a post on its official forums, the company apologises to gamers experiencing performance issues.It says: “We take these issues very seriously and have therefore decided to suspend future game sales of the PC version while we work to address these issues to satisfy our quality standards. We greatly value our customers and know that while there are a significant amount of players who are enjoying the game on PC, we want to do whatever we can to make the experience better for PC players overall.”It advises gamers who remain unhappy to request a refund via the online gaming platform Steam, althoughservice’s standard terms(which bar refunds for games with more than two hours of playtime) appear to still apply.The recognition that an unacceptable number of gamers are experiencing problems is a change in tack from the initial response by developers Rocksteady, who acknowledged the problems but couched them in the phrase “some users are reporting performance issues”.
Google has pulled its listening software from the open-source Chromium browser after complaints from developers and privacy campaigners.The tool, which uses the computer’s microphone to listen out for the “OK, Google” hotword to trigger voice searches, was silently downloaded with updates of Chromium by default.Open-source advocatescomplainedthat Google was downloading a “black box” on to their machines that was not open source and therefore could not be verified to be doing what it said it was meant to do.Related:Google eavesdropping tool installed on computers without permissionGoogle has now made it an optional download that will not be installed unless a user adds it from the Chrome Web Store and opts into the voice-search functionality, which can be activated on Google’s search pages.“As of the newly landed r335874 Chromium builds, by default, will not download this module at all,” saidGoogle via its product pages. “Chromium is open source and it’s important to us, as is it is to you, that it doesn’t ship with closed-source components, lazily or not.”Chromium is the open-source base for Google’s Chrome browser. Chrome claimed a 49.2% share of the global browser market in May, leading Microsoft’s Internet Explorer at 18.3% and Firefox at 16.4%, according to data from StatCounter.The always-listening feature is installed by default within Chrome, but is not automatically enabled. Some users of the Chromium browserclaimedthat the always-listening program was activated and started listening without asking for permission.•Google eavesdropping tool installed on computers without permission•Samsung’s voice-recording smart TVs breach privacy law, campaigners claim
Remember thoseamazing images from last weekthat looked like a computer having an acid trip? What if you could watch them live?A group of PhD students from Belgium have createda Twitch livestreamwhich lets viewers look in to the mind of a neural network as it “dreams”.An image created by Google’s neutral network, containing fountainsPhotograph: GoogleThe livestreambuilds on research published by Google last week, when the search firm demonstrated a method of using an image recognition algorithm togenerateimages, as well as simply categorising them.A screengrab of an image created for “bighorn sheep” in the Twitch stream.Photograph: TwitchGoogle’s algorithm instructed a neural network which had been trained to recognise specific aspects of an image (say, animals or buildings) to subtly alter the image, strengthening the aspects it recognised, and then feed the output back into the start of the process. In doing so, it was capable of generating alarmingly detailed dreamscapes from scratch.A screengrab of an image created for “porcupine” in the Twitch stream.Photograph: TwitchThe Twitch stream, created by Jonas Degrave, Lionel Pigou, Aaron van den Oord and Sander Dieleman in Belgium’s Ghent University, builds on the process. The live video is created by taking a randomly generated frame, zooming slightly, rotating slightly, and applying the algorithm in order to strengthen the desired feature.A screengrab of an image created for “bee house” in the Twitch stream.Photograph: TwitchAs for what specific feature the neural network looks for, viewers can suggest objects in the chat channel for the stream, and a new one is automatically selected every few seconds. The past few minutes have seen the AI looking for a tree frog, then a welsh corgi, then a spider-monkey, then a cello, all in a row.A screengrab of an image created for “candle” in the Twitch stream.Photograph: TwitchAn interesting quirk of the methodology is that the previous image sticks around, rather than being reset each time, so that an image clearly incorporating spider-monkey features slowly morphs into one that looks more like a nightmarish collection of technicolour cellos: lines get straightened out, strings get added in, and eyes become ƒ-holes.Related:Yes, androids do dream of electric sheep
Google’s recentdecisionto delist “revenge porn” from its search results is a big deal, and not just for victims. Beyond opposing harmful conduct thatdisproportionately targets women, Google has essentially demonstrated how something akin to the European Union’sright to be forgottencan, and should, work in the US.Some Americans have panicked over Europe’swoefully misnamedright to be forgotten, anxious at the thought of the “biggest threatto free speech online” “erasing history” and “breaking the internet”. But such a right doesn’t have to exact an exorbitant price tag, and it can come about in manydifferent ways.In the case of the right to be forgotten, Google has shown that the world won’t be knocked off its axis if the company goes beyond protecting financially relevant information (copyrighted works,social securitynumbers, and bank information), and takes aggressive steps to remove links tosocially relevantinformation that can harm autonomy, reputation, and emotional well-being.As the debate over online privacy in the US advances, there are three important things to keep in mind.1) Both government and industry must invest in data protection rightsThe First Amendmentrestrictsthe ways the US government can oblige companies to provide citizens with data protection rights. The corporate free speech interests ofGoogleand others willlikelyensure that the US cannot mimic data correction and erasure rights in the EU. What this means is that the public must demand that Google – along with other online intermediaries – exerts leadership and avoids adopting a mentality that’s concerned more withlegal compliancethansocial good.Even cynics must admit that Google made a voluntary choice totake actionagainst revenge porn at a global level. This is the case even if the policy deflects some attention away from thetougher questionsraised bydelisting requests from EU citizens, and even if it follows moves byReddit,Twitter, and other prominent companies in responding to online harassment. Evidence now suggests that if the public keeps applying pressure, industry and government can be partners in ensuring that it is hard for undesirable parties to obtain some of the information we have privacy interests in.Seen from thisperspective, good can come from the fact that Google is not legally required to make free speech exceptions for links to information some would deem newsworthy. Even countries with broader privacy rights like those in the EU could benefit from an invested industry.2) Personal data rights will evolve through information-specific categoriesThe entire regulatory framework for protecting privacy in the US is fragmented and largely focused on safeguarding specific kinds of sensitive information, likehealth,financial, andeducationrecords. The right to be forgotten in the US will not be any different.To be sure, a category-based approach to privacy has its drawbacks. It fuels an incremental orientation towards privacy protection, and every victory puts us at risk of being too complacent to go further and take up far-reaching and robust reforms.But a category-based approach also has numerous advantages. Different solutions, ranging from expunging a minor’s criminal record to deleting stalecredithistory and delisting non-consensual pornography, can be worked out independently of one another. Clear justifications can be given for why special types of information are so problematic they should be obfuscated or removed from different systems. At the end of the day, categories of information that clearly do not belong in the wrong hands, such as non-consensual pornography, can be handled with comparative ease. Meanwhile, grey areas, like what to do about privacy-invasive public records, can be addressed later on as the discourse surrounding them matures.Google’scalculusfor delisting seems to target information that is both harmful and without legitimate value to the public. This is a useful criterion, and the cases it covers can be expanded. As new technologies evolve and we become clearer about which categories of information should not be ripe for the picking, company policy or law might obscure additional classifications, such as biometrics andmugshotsused to exploit people.3) The right to be forgotten in the US will be, in effect, the right to obscurityThe entire history of “forgetting” in the US is really about making things hard to find. A minor’s criminal records and a person’s outdated credit activity aren’t obliterated; indeed, many people know about them. In effect, then, what Google’s new policy does is give people a limitedright to obscurity.Obscurity protections are not perfect and, as Googleacknowledges, revenge porn will remain available on websites. But delisting it from search engines can make information harder to access and interpret. Such aburdencan effectively deter many people from doing harmful things. According to University of Miami law professor Mary Anne Franks, given Google’s global dominance, delisting revenge porn “will mean fewer victims of revenge porn in the future”.The ideals driving the poorly-described right to be forgotten are about striking the right balance between information availability and obscurity. Although Google claims that its stance on revenge porn is but “narrow and limited policy,” the company is actually paving the way towards something far more substantial in the US.Woodrow Hartzogis an associate professor atSamford University’s Cumberland School of Law. Follow him on Twitter@hartzog.Evan Selingeris an associate professor of philosophy atRochester Institute of Technology. Follow him on Twitter@EvanSelinger.How Google determined our right to be forgottenTech companies and social networks need an ethics body to rebuild trustWhat did the media miss with the ‘right to be forgotten’ coverage?What the Google ruling tells us about our digital delusion
Children’s storytelling startupLost My Nameraised its first $100k of funding in 2014 on TV show Dragon’s Den. Now the London-based firm is turning to Silicon Valley for a $9m funding round.The investment – led by Google Ventures with venture capital firms Greycroft and The Chernin Group also participating – follows more than 600k sales of Lost My Name’s first personalised picture-book since its launch two years ago.Parents order the book directly from the company’s website, entering their child’s name to customise its storyline – which sees the hero or heroine collecting the letters of the chosen name while meeting a host of characters.Lost My Name is planning to expand its business globally, while launching a second book in the autumn with a space theme. The company is also exploring the idea of launching stories digitally as apps and animation, as well as physical products.“As a London-based startup with global ambitions we were keen to raise in the USA and connect to the networks and talent of the hugely important US market,” said co-founder Asi Sharabi in a statement.Lost My Name’s founders: ‘Three fathers and an uncle’Sharabi was one of the “three fathers and an uncle” who founded Lost My Name in 2012, before securing $100k from investor Piers Linney on the Dragon’s Den TV show the following year.“We want to combine the power of stories with the possibilities of technology. There is tons of technology behind every book that we create, but it’s technology that always stays in the background,” Sharabi told the Guardian ahead of the funding announcement.“It is technology that still allows this quiet, old-fashioned bonding moment between the parent and the child as they read together, rather than the shouty bells and whistles of apps and screens. We think that books are here to stay: they’re not going to go anywhere.”Related:Nosy Crow talks fairytales, reluctant readers and game-like apps for kidsThe company describes itself as a “full-stack” technology startup rather than a book publisher: it creates the stories and illustrations in-house, but also the technology to customise the £18.99 books and order them online, as well as handling the printing, distribution and marketing.It’s that aspect that attracted the Silicon Valley investors. Greycroft founding partner Dana Settle praised Lost My Name’s “unique hybrid between content, commerce and service”, while Google Ventures’ Avid Larizadeh Duggan claimed that “the move toward customised content changes the way kids interact with books, video and toys”.“We only exist online: you cannot find us in any shops. We’re a proper e-commerce business. And we learned earlier this year that in 2014 we were the top-selling picture book in the UK,” Sharabi told the Guardian.“Julia Donaldson, who dominates that market, sold 112k copies of her Superworm book in the UK last year. We did 132k in the UK, and 325k books in total globally. We’re not in the official sales charts, because we don’t have an ISBN, but that gives you a picture of how we performed.”
It’s Thursday and today’s screenshot comes from Counter-Strike Nexon: Zombies which is getting a content update at the end of June, in the form of the ‘Into the Darkness’ expansion. Which has zombie giants. ZOMBIE GIANTS.
On the set of ITV’s costume drama Mr Selfridge, in a quiet moment between takes, actor Greg Austin is a world away from his co-stars. Although dressed as an Edwardian gentlemen, he is glued to his iPhone, and to one game in particular. Hearthstone.“I got into it somewhat late, about a year after its release,” he says. “But since then I’ve been playing avidly. It is easy to learn, which means anyone can play it and enjoy themselves, but it is also difficult to master.” Austin loves the game so much, he now has his own dedicated YouTube gaming channel,EuphAuric, posting regular Hearthstone videos.He is not alone with this obsession. A year after its release on PC and iPad, Hearthstone boasts over 30 million registered players, and together with online shooter Destiny, drew in $850m (£540m) of revenue for Activision last year. It is one of the most watched titles on the video game streaming site Twitch, and professional gamers can earn tens of thousands of pounds in dedicated tournaments. One reviewer for influential US games site Polygon wrote simply: “It’s kept me rapt longer than any games I’ve played in years.”A Priest takes on a Paladin in this Heathstone match. The Hero characters are at the top and bottom of the screen with the minions meeting in the middle of the board.Photograph: ActivisionFor those yet to be indoctrinated, Hearthstone is a turn-based strategy game based in an esoteric fantasy universe and inspired by complex collectible trading card sets like Magic: The Gathering. Players select one of nine character classes such as hunters, warriors and priests, then build decks of soldiers called Minions, each with their own abilities and weaknesses. These mini armies are pitched against an opponent on a table-top warzone, with a resource named mana governing how many cards a participant is able to play in their turn. The aim is to destroy your opponent’s main Hero character by playing stronger Minion cards at the right times, and making effective use of special spell cards that add force to compatible moves.It sounds complicated and geeky, which is perhaps why so many industry insiders were caught off guard by its sudden and phenomenal success – including, it turns out, the game’s own developer. To Blizzard Entertainment, Hearthstone was supposed to be a niche project, an experimental diversion. But then something weird happened. Everybody loved it.The Blizzard wayBased in a sprawling campus facility in Irvine, California, Blizzard is the veteran studio behind acclaimed strategy simulation titles Starcraft and Warcraft, and the massively multiplayer online game, World of Warcraft (WoW). Its games are the very definition of “hardcore”: deep, demanding and riddled with complex mechanics. In 2008, however, the company’s directors looked at how they were relying exclusively on three key brands – the action role-playing adventure Diablo, the strategy simulation sequel Starcraft II, and WoW – and they were concerned. In some ways it was fine, the games were, after all, doing spectacularly well. Starcraft was about to get its Wings of Liberty add-on and work was progressing on the long-awaited Diablo III.Elsewhere, however, something big was happening in the games industry. A group of idiosyncratic independent projects like Braid and World of Goo had kickstarted a new era of experimental game design. The arrival of digital download platforms like Xbox Live and the Apple App Store, together with the increasing availability of broadband internet, meant that suddenly small teams were able to get interesting offbeat projects to potentially huge audiences. Games didn’t have to be burned onto discs and sold in stores anymore, they could be created by small teams then made available on the internet or on smartphones. The culture of the industry was shifting. Blizzard wanted to shift too.“We realised we didn’t have a competency here at the company to be a little bit more experimental, a little more nimble,” recalls Hearthstone co-creator and production director, Jason Chayes. “Some of our executives got together and said, we need to start up a small team, kind of a scrappy team, that can, with few resources, find ways to do more experimental types of games. We wanted to try out different ideas and platforms – things we don’t usually do because our teams are focused on those key franchises.”The studio pulled a small group of experienced designers together, including Jason Chayes and designer Eric Dodds, and gave them the codename Team Five. The brief was effectively, go create something. “We started where we always do, by asking each other about the games we really love ,” says Chayes. “We discussed the games we played in our lunch breaks or with our friends in a pub on a Friday evening. For about twenty years, a lot of us had been playing collectible card games (CCGs) together. The coupling of a small team and an online CCG felt like a natural fit. That’s where Hearthstone began.”A magic gatheringAlthough there have been trading cards with simple gaming mechanics for many years, it was the 1993 release of Magic: The Gathering that revolutinised the CCG concept. Published by veteran fantasy game creator Wizards of the Coast, and set in a Dungeons and Dragons-style fantasy world, it featured a starter pack of creature, spell and artifact cards all with different strengths and weaknesses, as well as random booster packs allowing players to build their own custom decks. Part of the fun was simply purchasing packs and amassing a collection, enjoying the exotic creature descriptions and fantasy art. But being able to sit down and play a highly tactical game added to the appeal. Magic became a smash hit, selling out its initial 2.6m print run almost immediately and going on to build a community of over 10m active players. It wasn’t long before it earned the nickname cardboard crack.Team Five was looking into what made a compelling collectible card game – and that meant playing them. A lot of them. They played endless rounds of Magic, as well as subsequent CCG hits – Battletech, Netrunner, Legend of the Five Rings and Rage – learning the flow, the interplay, the conventions of the genre. “We thought, well, what does a card game need to give it interesting depth?” says Chayes. “We wanted a style of play where minions could duke it out against each other – a very quick, dynamic engaging experience. There was a process of working out what sort of things would facilitate that form of gameplay.”Hearthstone’s Tavern Brawl mode.Photograph: BlizzardAnd of course, they borrowed from the World of Warcraft card trading game produced by Upper Deck in 2006. This hugely successful spin-off from Blizzard’s massively multiplayer online game was a massive success on the CCG market, with over 20 expansion sets and a lively competitive scene. It has similar hero classes, it duplicates a lot of the minion cards, and card art, and many of the systems are the same. And when Hearthstone was nearing completion, Blizzard ended its licensing agreement with Upper Deck, effectively killing the physical Warcraft card game in favour of its digital counterpart.But Team Five was also looking back to the origin of the Warcraft titles and its universe, the dark fantasy realm known as Azeroth, swarming with warriors, elves and orcs. As Chayes explains, “We thought about the various classes that are represented there – hunter, mage, paladin, all of these – and discussed what it is that people think about when they consider what a paladin is, the buffs they may use, or the burst energy spell of a mage. We looked for ways to introduce those mechanics into a card game. That was a key influence: how we could be faithful to that source material?”The Starcraft experienceA year after work started, the team had developed a simple Flash prototype – a very basic digital card game with no real visual identity; it was just a set of mechanics, based around the nine classes of hero from the Warcraft real-time strategy titles. At this critical point, several of the staff were temporarily moved on to Starcraft II – and far from being a disruption, this proved an important element in Hearthstone’s development. “There were 10 or 11 months where the two people on the design team – Eric Dodds and Ben Brode – were free to do a lot of fast iteration,” says Chayes. “They were actually making and using physical playing cards.”Meanwhile, the others learned a lot from Starcraft, especially the asymmetric nature of the races. “That definitely carried over into Hearthstone,” says Chayes. “The idea that each of the classes needs to remain balanced but at the same time has to have its own flavour and feel. When the team started reconverging, having done our tour of duty on Starcraft, that’s when things started to migrate into a very robust example of where we wanted Hearthstone to go.”Behind it all were two guiding principles: accessibility and charm. It had to be funny, it had to be warm and it had to be intuitive. “When we first started working on it, the most important thing was that this would be a game for everybody,” says Dodds. “That idea quickly spread throughout the entire game. We wanted to make it feel good to drag cards, to attack, we wanted it to look fun if you just watched it over someone’s shoulder.“We talked about the text on the cards - we wanted to make it very readable. We have a rule when we’re building a card that if someone reads the text for the first time and they don’t immediately understand what the card does, we need to change that power or re-word it – that is critical.”Indeed, the game is so intuitive, players are able to effectively let it play itself. There are pre-built card decks for each class so players don’t have to make their own. But if they do decide to make custom decks, the game will make suggestions, or even build the whole deck based on the cards available. Then, when you’re in the game, the user interface highlights all the cards that you can play in any one turn. As with casual puzzle titles like Candy Crush Saga, you can just do what the game tells you.“It’s very apparent that Blizzard wanted the game to be quick, and reasonably easy,” says keen player and eSports writer, Kevin Hovdestad. “Turns are short, games are short, and you can’t act in any way during your opponent’s turn. Strategically, each class has inherently valuable cards that fit it thematically, so the game sort-of guides players towards certain natural synergies.”Dodds agrees. “It’s important that you don’t have to spend a lot of time understanding the rules to play the game, the depth grows as you go,” he says. “A number of players will just drag the card that goes green onto the board – they’re sort of playing the game, sort of not. But as they progress they start to think, ‘no, I’m going to play a different way’.“Really, throughout the design, the interface, the experience, Hearthstone is designed to say ‘the first time you see this, you know how to play, you know how to use it’”.Meanwhile, back on the set of Mr Selfridge, Austin regularly finds himself showing off the game to other cast members as they mill about on set. For him, performance is part of its appeal. “It is extremely watchable,” he says. “The other actors are always asking what I’m doing, and I’ll tell them about the game and get them to have a go. That’s how I really started to learn the finer details – by watching popular streamers and YouTubers likeTrump and Kripparian. There’s always more to learn and understand with Hearthstone, and watching other people is one of the best ways of getting better. I wouldn’t be surprised if I’ve managed to get a few of the other actors into it.”Part Two: the design process, and how Hearthstone evolved into an eSport
Amazon’s booming UK business paid just £11.9m of tax last year, while the online retailer’s Luxembourg unit took £5.3bn of sales from British internet shoppers without being subject to UK tax, according to company filings.The Amazon group posted a strong UK performance in 2014, with overall takings rising by more than 14% to £5.3bn. However, its British-based Amazon.co.uk Limited subsidiary recorded a profit of just £34.4m and tax of £11.9m, according to results filed at Companies House this week.As in previous years, the UK accounts make clear Amazon.co.uk Limited claims not to sell to British online shoppers: instead the group’s Luxembourg arm fulfils that role. Amazon.co.uk Limited’s much more modest turnover of £679m comes from providing “fulfilment and corporate support services” to Luxembourg.The Amazon group’s total UK sales of £5.3bn – representing 9.4% of its global sales – were taken through its Luxembourg company Amazon EU Sarl, which has a much smaller number of employees. Amazon EU Sarl also took billions from Germany, France and other major European economies. It was not subject to tax on any resulting profits in those markets.This controversial structure which allows technology companies to divert sales out of major economies – avoiding tax on any consequent profits as a result – has led to a string of tax reform initiatives.The G20-led reform programme, being carried out by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, signalled itsdetermination to end the practice two years ago. These wide-reaching reforms are still being fine-tuned, with further developments expected later this year.Meanwhile, George Osborne has pre-empted the G20 project on the single issue of diverted sales and profits as exploited by Amazon. In April the chancellor introduced a punitive 25% rate for thosecompanies artificially shifting sales and profits overseas.Last month Amazonquietly abandoned its practiceof pooling European sales in Luxembourg. Instead the sales hub business opened taxable branches in its main European markets, including the UK. As a result, for the first time since 2004, all Amazon sales with British online shoppers are going through a business that will file a UK tax return.That development is unlikely to lead to a leap in Amazon’s UK tax bill, however, as the company continues to use further controversial structures to shift profits out of Amazon EU Sarl – which reported a loss last year – and back to the US. Competition officials in Brussels areexamining this arrangement, which was sanctioned by the grand duchy in 2003. They believe tax treatments agreed by the Luxembourg authorities may have been so generous as to constitute illegal state aid.Amazon’s former head of tax, Bob Comfort, last year gave an interview recalling how in 2003 the then prime minister of Luxembourg, Jean-Claude Juncker, hadbehaved as “business partner”to the online retailer. Juncker is now the president of the European Union’s executive arm, the European commission.Three years ago Comfort was appointed Luxembourg’s “honorary consul for the Seattle region” because of his close relationship with the grand duchy and tasked with extolling the benefits of the country to other US tech firms.The accounts for Amazon.co.uk Limited show the UK business is continuing its rapid expansion. The document shows that 7,722 staff in warehouse, procurement, software and other roles were employed during the year, up from 5,912 in 2013.
Facebook has been accused of putting users at risk “of rape and death threats” by a journalist who was banned from the social networking site for using a pseudonym.Laurie Penny, a contributing editor at the weekly political magazine the New Statesman, who also writes for the Guardian, said she had been kicked off Facebook for using a fake name to avoid being trolled.“Just got suspended by Facebook because I’ve been using a pseudonym so I can hide from goddamn trolls,” she wrote on Twitter.In a second tweet, Penny added: “Thanks to @facebook forcing me to use my real name, I am now at more risk of rape and death threats. But enjoy flogging that data, guys.”Thanks to@facebookforcing me to use my real name, I am now at more risk of rape and death threats. But enjoy flogging that data, guys.&mdash; Laurie Penny (@PennyRed)June 24, 2015Penny’s criticisms come less than a year after Facebook was slammed by gay and transgender users for its refusal to allow them to represent themselves with their chosen identities.In September, a number of users on the site, mainly drag performers, reported that their accounts had been suspended in violation of the company’s “real names” policy, which requires individuals to use their legal name for personal accounts.Though Facebook does not use an algorithm to detect violations of its policy, individuals can be reported by other users, which raises fears surrounding targeted hate campaigns and political silencing.Responding to Penny on Twitter this afternoon, one person wrote that Facebook’s policy is “nasty” and “harms victims and survivors, sex workers and trans people”.@PennyRedFB&#39;s real names policy harms victims and survivors, sex workers and trans people. It&#39;s a nasty policy.&mdash; Another Angry Woman (@stavvers)June 24, 2015Other people to have been affected by Facebook’s real name policy in the past include the Egyptian activist Wael Ghonim and author Salman Rushdie.In 2011, a blogger in Honduras, who went by the name of La Gringa, pointed to the country’s press freedom rankings after being suspended from the site. She said pseudonyms are important because “many journalists and bloggers freely admit to self-censorship for various reasons.”In the same year, the Chinese commentator Michael Anti accused Facebook of insulting him by insisting he had to use his birth name Zhao Jing, while at the same time hosting a page for founder Mark Zuckerberg’s puppy. Though Anti sent Facebook a certificate from Harvard University – where he completed a fellowship – as evidence that he is widely known by this pseudonym, he was told he needed to use the name on his government identity card.He said: “It’s insulting. They think my academic and journalistic work is less real than Zuckerberg’s dog? I have lost more than a thousand contacts overseas.“It is part of my life. It’s not a fake name but a professional name in the English-speaking world. If the real name policy really applies in China, you will destroy the accounts of at least half the people. It’s ridiculous.”Facebook has consistently maintained that a “real name culture” creates more accountability. In a statement released following Anti’s complaints, it said: “We fundamentally believe this leads to greater accountability and a safer and more trusted environment for people who use the service.“This viewpoint has been developed by our own research and in consultation with a number of safety and child protection experts.”In addition, the company keeps contact details of its users private, and has made accommodations for those who want to set up fan “pages” under pseudonyms or professional names.
The wheel, the telegram and now, Google’s “Undo Send” email feature. There’s nothing like an invention that truly changes the fabric of life. Even better are those that save us: hydraulic braking, say, or rehab.This is the news that the tech giant isrolling out a featureallowing users to pull back emails – up to 30 seconds after hitting send. The feature has been around for a while, but hidden in Google’s labs section.Those who didn’t already know about it, however, can breathe a sigh of relief knowing future fuck-ups can be averted. Here are five scenarios that can now be contained before they contaminate. Good luck.The typo saveWe’re all familiar with autocorrect, and its pesky habit of dropping awkward bombs into conversations. There arewebsitesdedicated to the best and funniest. Now that many of us send emails from mobile or tablet devices, awkward autocorrects have become an ever present threat. Not only that, but quick typing on a desktop or laptop computer can also result in true mortification.The worst recipients? Parents and bosses. It’s not unheard of for people to be disciplined at work for breaching email etiquette, and though a typo is probably not a firing offence, it can cause huge embarrassment.Unfortunately, both of the following examples of typos in emails sent to bosses are true. I know one woman, who signed off an email to her (female, well endowed) boss with: “Thanks for your help, I know how busty you are”. Busy. She meant busy.Perhaps even worse, another acquaintance was punished by the proximity of the “g” and “t” keys when she bid someone “king retards”, instead of kind regards.I wish I was making these up; I am not. Please feel free to leave your tpyso in the therda blow.Hauling back a reply allIf there’s one thing more irritating than slow walkers, it’s people who consistently reply all. Nobody wants to be that person. The dawning mortification on realising that you’ve sent the entire office something that 90% of them do not care about is brutal.If someone throws out an open invitation, a person really does not have to RSVP to everybody. Likewise, if someone sends a company-wide email in a bid to find a lost iPhone, I don’t need 10,000 responses of “sorry, no”. If you’re going to email everyone back, at least have actually come up with the goods. FFS.(NB. Reply-alls are occasionally acceptable when a chain of hilarity ensues. For instance, the time an email went around the Guardian about a bowl of stolen fruit).A genuine email that made its way around the Guardian office.Photograph: Us.Awkward essays to ex loversA lot of writers responded to Google’s announcement with pieces on how it was now easy to recall drunken emails sent to exes or suitors. But, come on, whoemailssomeone in that situation? That’s more of a being absolutely wasted texting situation. A slurred voicemail.Brett Wright’s OMG Shakespearesrsly reworking of Shakespeare.Photograph: Penguin BooksThe true danger isn’t in a sloppy, one line email sent when drunk, it’s the 2,000 word treatise on why you and your ex should still be together.How do I love thee? Let me count the ways … for, like, 10 scrollable minutes.At the time, you’re not even inebriated, God help you. These emails shouldalwaysremain in drafts folders. For one thing, romance translates better via quill and ink, and pixels will never match that, hence why sending an e-card is just a way of telling someone you don’t like them (but while simultaneously wishing them a happy birthday!)Second, let’s say you get famous. That email is printable. That email is publishable. Click send. Click undo send. It ain’t worth it, fella.Lost in translationThe problem with the written word, especially electronically, is that some things can get lost in translation. Without the aid of body language, or being able to read facial expressions, it can be tricky to decipher the tone of a communication.And that’s why we end up writing emails with loads of exclamation marks so that people know we are joking!!!! Or using *asterisks* for emphasis in case people think we are SHOUTING. Or put kisses xxx on the end of work emails to soften the awful request just made, and then wondering whether that’s inappropriate. Ditto any kind of emoticon. ;-)The great thing about Undo Send is that if you quickly realise seconds after sending that an email to your best friend or colleague has come across rude as hell, the email can be recalled. Likewise, if you absolutely didn’t mean that double smiley to be a come on to Ben in HR, it’s retrievable.Sending to wrong recipientI’ve saved the worst till last, like some kind of listicle-writing sadist. Even the subhead for this section makes me shudder. Whether it’s a smutty email ending up in the inbox of the person who gave birth to you (not recoverable from), or an email to a senior manager slagging off said senior manager, there is nothing, except for maybe having to inform an ex of an STI, that is more excruciating.This is where the unsend feature really comes into its own, and could alter your life. By which I mean, stop you being fired, and allowing you to continue maintaining the comfort of eye contact between you and close family members.Let us know your email howlers in the comments below, but please note, Guardian comments cannot be unposted for up to 30 seconds.
Two independent label bodies have given Apple’s new music streaming service their backing, after the company abandoned its plans not to pay royalties during its three-month free trial.Meanwhile, Pharrell Williams has been confirmed as the first exclusive for Apple Music, which launches on 30 June, with his new single set to debut the same day on the service.The backing from trade body Worldwide Independent Network (WIN) and licensing agency Merlin is significant for Apple, as the company was strongly criticised by independent labels in the week before its u-turn on royalties.Related:Apple Music interview: 'Algorithms can't do it alone – you need a human touch'“I am pleased to say that Apple has made a decision to pay for all usage of Apple Music under the free trials on a per-play basis, as well as to modify a number of other terms that members had been communicating directly with Apple about,” said WIN chief executive Alison Wenham in a statement.“With these changes, we are happy to support and endorse the deal... We think Apple Music provides artists with a business model that’s good for the long-term and we look forward to its launch.”Alongside its statement, WIN put out quotes from indie labels Secretly Group, Tommy Boy, Finetunes and Beggars Group. The latter’s boss, Martin Mills, confirmed that his company is also “happy to endorse the deal with Apple Music as it now stands”.Beggars had led the indie revolt against Apple Music,publishing a blog post criticising its previous planson the grounds that “we struggle to see why rights owners and artists should bear this aspect of Apple’s customer acquisition costs”.Merlin, which strikes licensing deals on behalf of indie labels with other streaming services – but not Apple Music – alsoendorsed the new contract in an email sent to its memberswith identical wording to Wenham’s statement.Independent labels will now make their own decisions about whether to sign up for Apple Music. While streaming payments are one area for debate, another is the service’s Connect feature, through which artists can upload their own demos, remixes, lyrics and other content.“We have reservations about both commercial and practical aspects of the Artist Connect area. It is a mistake to treat these rights as royalty free, especially in the light of recent licenses with services like Soundcloud,” wrote Beggars Group in its original blog post. Artists are free not to use Connect if they prefer not to.The Pharrell Williams exclusive is not a surprising development: he was in the audience for the Apple Music unveiling earlier in June, while a promotional video for Apple’s new Beats 1 radio station published on 8 June included a clip of DJ Zane Lowe mentioning “brand new Pharrell”.Apromotional image circulating for Williams’ Freedom singleincludes the slogan “Only on Apple Music” (with the ‘Apple’ replaced by the company’s logo), but further details of the exclusive have not been announced.Freedom. June 30th@AppleMusic&#10;https://t.co/82MceAkbRe&mdash; Pharrell Williams (@Pharrell)June 23, 2015Possibilities range from a radio premiere on Beats 1 with the single swiftly making its way onto Apple Musicandrival streaming services like Spotify, through to a full exclusive that is not available elsewhere – more unlikely, although it would certainly give an ironic slant to the title.WithApple having settled its differences with Taylor Swift, her back catalogue is expected to be available on Apple Music, like other streaming services that do not have free, on-demand tiers – Spotify being the most prominent exception.Related:Daniel Ek: Spotify and free music will save the industry, not kill itWith her current album 1989 not available on any streaming service, it remains to be seen whether Apple can persuade swift to change that policy.While Apple announced that it would be paying rightsholders for every stream of their music during its free trial – like its rivals, the company pays labels and publishers, not artists directly – it has not said how much it will be paying.That has sparked speculation within the music industry, with trade site Digital Music Newsclaiming Apple will pay $0.002 per streamduring the trial, with the Wall Street Journalconfirming that rates will rise once the trial ends.While Apple’s trial rate is much lower than Spotify’s claimed average of $0.0072 per stream, the latter service is also thought to lower its per-stream payouts during its own marketing campaigns, such as free trials of its premium subscription service, and its current three-months-for-$1 offer in the US.
My father, Michael Westbrook, who has died aged 88, was one of the first professionally trained electronics engineers in the UK and, during a long career in the field, invented and patented a number of useful devices, including a fuel injection system for cars and a photoelectric fog detector for ships. He also became an early expert in the technology behind electric vehicles.Born an only child into a farming family in Preston Candover, Hampshire, to George and Phyllis (George’s cousin, also born Westbrook), Mike went to Peter Symonds school in Winchester, where even then he showed ability in the emerging field of electronics. From 1945 to 1948 he served in the RAF near Cheltenham. He married Barbara (nee Maw), a secretary, in 1949, and they moved to Upham in Hampshire while Michael studied at University College, Southampton (now the University of Southampton) under the electronics pioneer Eric Zepler.He graduated in 1952 and the following year his young family moved to Kent, where he worked initially for Powers-Samas, which made accounting machines, and then for Trinity House, a company that created navigational aids for shipping (where he invented his fog detector). After a spell at the Rank Organisation, in 1959 he moved to Leamington Spa to join Associated Engineering (where he invented his fuel injection system), working mainly on transducers and automotive electronics. He also set up his own transducer company, Sybrook Electronics.In 1966 Mike joined the car manufacturer Ford, in Essex, and took on various research and development management roles there, including early research into electric cars for Ford Europe. In 1987 he was appointed visiting professor at the University of Southampton’s department of mechanical engineering, and four years later the department awarded him an honorary doctorate in science.He retired in 1991 after 25 years at Ford, but remained active in engineering institutions, chairing committees at the Institute of Physics, the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, and what is now the Institution of Engineering and Technology. He was a fellow of all three bodies.Mike also worked with the Open University in the late 1990s to create teaching materials for physics in schools, and he was the author of a definitive work on the electric car and its technologies, The Electric Car (2001), as well as an earlier book on automotive transducers, Automotive Sensors (1994).He is survived by Barbara, their five children, 10 grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
Samsung is disabling Windows Update on some of its computers, leaving users exposed to security holes and bugs according to an independent Microsoft support engineer.A system designed to help update Samsung’s pre-installed software, called Samsung SW Update, used a program called “Disable_Windowsupdate.exe.” to, as the name implies, disable Microsoft’s built in update system for Windows.Independent Microsoft support engineer Patrick Barker,blogged about how the issue was identifiedby Sysnative Forums while attempting to diagnose a Windows Update problem.Turning off Windows Update is riskyWindows Update is responsible for delivering bug fixes, driver updates, program updates and crucial security patches for Microsoft’s operating system. Without it holes that are discovered in Windows will not be fixed, leaving users vulnerable to attack by cyber criminals, viruses and hacking.A Samsung support representative told Barker that “when you enable Windows updates, it will install the Default Drivers for all the hardware on the laptop which may or may not work... so to prevent this, SW Update tool will prevent Windows updates.”Samsung’s software seemingly disables Windows Update because during the process of applying Windows updates it could replace drivers needed to run hardware features such as USB 3.0 ports on Samsung computers.Even if users manually turn on Windows Update within settings it will be disabled by Samsung’s software when the computer, typically a laptop, is rebooted.Related:Samsung keyboard bug leaves 600m Android devices exposed to hackers“As there are many instances of malware trying to deliberately disable Windows Updates in order to get on with their dirty work, I personally wouldn’t feel entirely comfortable if Samsung was going around doing the job for them,” saidindependent security researcher Graham Cluley. “Turning off Windows Update in its entirety, the Microsoft software with the responsibility for keeping your Microsoft operating system and apps like Internet Explorer updated with the latest security patches, seems like a risky move to me.”Samsungexited the PC laptop marketin Europe last year, after struggling sales moved it into the “bottom four” of the PC market with Toshiba, Samsung, Sony, and Fujitsu, which together held only 12% of the marketaccording to data from Gartner.Samsung continues to sell laptops and Chromebooks outside of Europe.A Samsung spokeswoman told the Guardian on Thursday: “It is not true that we are blocking a Windows 8.1 operating system update on our computers. As part of our commitment to consumer satisfaction, we are providing our users with the option to choose if and when they want to update the Windows software on their products. We take product security very seriously and we encourage any Samsung customer with product questions or concerns to contact us directly.”•Microsoft Windows 10 free upgrade: 10 more of your questions answered• This article was amended on 15 July 2015 because an earlier version said Patrick Barker identified the issue.
Move over Apple and Samsung, the latest tech rivalry is in town – and it’s to do with a router aimed at pregnant women.Chinese tech firmQihoohas launched an upgrade to its P1 router, which features three settings: “wall penetration”, “balance” and … er, “pregnant women”.Quite aside from this productnot being a good enough reason to use the word penetration, the router has upset rival firm, Xiaomi.Xiaomi has released its own new router,the Mi. The firm took to social media site Weibo to denounce Qihoo’s product as scaremongering.Xiamo’s post read: “The so-called pregnancy mode [of Qihoo’s router] is just a marketing tactic. Wi-Fi usage is safe, so please rest assured when using it [Xiaomi’s router].“We firmly oppose, and feel ashamed of, those who create rumours and arouse instability for business purposes.”Zhou Hongyi, chief executive and president of Qihoo, hit back with the rather brilliant but ominous statement: “We will wait and see who has a more profound understanding of Wi-Fi routers, me or our competitors.”Profound understanding of Wi-Fi routers.Hongyi claims that the upgraded P1 router protects pregnant women from any harm from signals, as it reduces radiation byaround 70 percent.“We are targeting people who are afraid of radiation”, he said. However, in a statement toSouth China Morning Post, Qihoo acknowledged that no definitive link has been made between Wi-Fi signals and poor health.“We aren’t scientists. We haven’t done many experiments to prove how much damage the radiation from Wi-Fi can cause. We leave the right of choice to our customers.”Debate surrounding the safety of electromagnetic fields has grown in recent years, butaccording to the World Health Organisation, there is no empirical evidence to suggest health implications.“The overall weight of evidence shows that exposure to fields at typical environmental levels does not increase the risk of any adverse outcome such as spontaneous abortions, malformations, low birth weight, and congenital diseases.“Based on a recent in-depth review of the scientific literature, the WHO concluded that current evidence does not confirm the existence of any health consequences from exposure to low-level electromagnetic fields.”It remains to be seen whether Qihoo will bring out a router with a specific setting for women in that awkward, panicky stage of having a late period and fearing the worst (raising a child with Garth from IT), but we live in hope.
Mobile game reviews websiteTouchArcadehas launched a fundraising campaign on crowdfunding site Patreon, admitting that the evolution of app store marketing and online advertising has put “our existence in jeopardy”.It’s the latest independent journalism site to try crowdfunding as a solution, with the US website’s struggles and strategy mirroring those of British music siteDrowned In Sound, which launched its own Patreon campaign in early June.TouchArcade launched in 2008 with a focus on mobile games for Apple’s iOS, but has seen advertising revenues plummet as developers have shifted their marketing budgets to “performance-based marketing” elsewhere online.“Instead of buying banner ads on sites like TouchArcade to reach consumers, marketing a new free to play iOS game involves funneling often hundreds of thousands of dollars (or more) in to companies whose sole purpose is to run elaborate in-app promotion networks to get people to download a new free to play game,” claims the site’s Patreon pitch.Related:Apple News app to rely on editors rather than algorithms for curation“In the face of this new style of game marketing, traditional advertising revenue has all but completely dried up, and TouchArcade is dying.”Editor-in-chief Eli Hodapp elaborated on the impact for other sites covering mobile gamesin a blog post announcing the campaign. “Without financial support from developers buying advertising, some sites have closed,” he wrote.“The few that remain have significantly downsized, drastically reduced their content output, shifted to writing about more general topics in hopes of attracting more search traffic, and/or changed focus to becoming an events companies.”TouchArcade is aiming to generate $10k a month from supporters on Patreon to keep the site going. At the time of writing, two days after the campaign launched,293 patrons have pledged a total of $4,158.25 a monthas word spreads about the site’s situation.Journalist Jeff Scott, who founded app reviews site 148apps in 2008 and is currently rebuilding TouchArcade rival Slide To Play,expressed similar views to Hodapp in a widely-shared blog postin April.“The mobile gaming press is getting the life squeezed out of it by the lack of advertising income,” he wrote, pointing to the same shift in marketing spend away from editorial sites, and calling for mobile games companies to consider also supporting the sites whose reviews are still valuable to them – for quoting in their marketing campaigns as independent praise, in particular.The parallels to music site Drowned In Sound are clear. The British website launched in 2000 as a blog, and has expanded into a resource of thousands of album reviews and interviews with musicians, with a bustling forum attached.“Despite around half a million people visiting the site each month, we are finding it increasingly difficult to cover our running costs (it is £1500 a month just for our server bill!), let alone pay developers to fix various niggles with the website or pay for the majority of our submissions,”wrote founder Sean Adams in early June.“We are reliant on advertising to keep going. Advertising is a bit unreliable to say the least and various things – from social networks driving the prices down to a lack of budget to invest in video ‘content’ - conspire against sites like ours.”So far,81 patrons have pledged $433.61 a monthto Drowned In Sound, some way below that monthly server bill, let alone its $22k goal to rebuild the website to work better on mobile devices and beef up its profile on social networks and search engines.Both TouchArcade and Drowned In Sound have talked openly about the commercial measures they’d rather not take in order to bring in more cash from advertisers.“We could load the site up with the same obnoxious advertising you see on most other sites these days. We could start doing sponsored posts, as we’realwaysbeing asked to publish those.Orwe could do a number of other really nasty things which have become ‘normal’ for sites trying to survive,” wrote Hodapp.“We could start to introduce those infuriating adverts that interrupt your experience of the website. We could stop having opinions and start buttering up people who seem to want to pay for sponsored posts that say how amazing they are to pave their way to glory,” wrote Adams.Drowned In Sound: ‘We could even go guns blazing with clickbait to try to triple our audience’“We could even go guns blazing with clickbait to try to triple our audience or whatever magic number we’d require to get the big brands on board. Then there’s the referral money we could get from plastering gambling and dating links all over the website.”One of Adams’ peers agreed. “Music website ad revenue is so bad that most of us will have to shut down,”tweeted Peter Robinson, founder of Popjustice, as he shared the link to Drowned In Sound’s Patreon.Two independent journalism sites (and possibly many others) potentially going to the wall because of changing marketing trends in the industries they cover – and, indeed, the changing economics of online publishing in general – may seem to some observers like natural selection, rather than a worrying trend.There is no shortage of other sources recommending new music and mobile games, including the mainstream media, vloggers on YouTube and other video services, and even the stores and streaming services that distribute games and music.Apple and Google’s App Store managers decide what games to feature on its homepage around the world; compile themed collections to highlight gems from their back catalogues; and then have hundreds of millions of customers rating and reviewing those games on the stores.For music, Apple, Spotify and other streaming services have internal teams curating thousands of themed playlists – and in Apple’s case,hiring freelance music journalists to write their descriptions– and increasingly-clever algorithms to recommend music to people based on their listening habits.Follow this line of reasoning, and you might argue that someone like Eli Hodapp would have more influence as an App Store manager, and someone like Sean Adams as an internal tastemaker at Apple or Spotify. But would those roles really be “journalism” rather than marketing or retail?Related:News outlets face losing control to Apple, Facebook and Google(In February, after writing a piece about Apple hiring music journalists, I ended up in a Twitter conversation with former Mac User editor-in-chief Adam Banks about this exact point, and hisargument that these roles aren’t journalism– “it’s not being published by an entity with editorial independence - part of a sales operation. Surely need distinction?” – has been rattling around my skull ever since.)There is still an important role for independent journalism, then, sitting outside the growing editorial-style content on these stores and services. The main question is how they can find business models that don’t compromise their quality and independence.Should games publishers and record labels prop up these sites in recognition that they do still play a valuable role in their industries? Is crowdfunding going to be a realistic source of revenues – possibly in TouchArcade’s case, although seemingly not for Drowned In Sound?Or have these sites simply failed to evolve their business models enough? In which case, what is the best model for independent, specialist journalism that would enable both these independent websites to continue serving their (large and appreciative) communities of readers?Questions that deserve a wider airing, whether you are worried about the potential demise of these two particular sites or not.
There are robot insects bursting in through the walls. Everywhere I look, the plaster is cracking, then suddenly, out they spew, their metallic claws aimed at my jugular. It sounds like the sort of techno-hallucinogenic nightmare that filmmaker David Cronenberg may concoct in one of his woozy sci-fi horror flicks. But it isn’t. This is a demo for Microsoft’s Hololens, a forthcoming “mixed reality” headset. The future is terrifying. But also sort of amazing.I’m standing in a quiet room, upstairs from the E3 Expo in Los Angeles, with two staff from Microsoft’s Hololens development team that’s based in Redmond. They’re going to show me a couple of demos: the robot shooting game, Project X-Ray, and the one I’m really desperate to see, Minecraft Hololens – basically, the game that stole the show at Microsoft’s pre-E3 press briefing.Announced in January, Hololens is Microsoft’s entry into the growing arena of immersive interactive technologies. It’s a self-contained, standalone headset, featuring two transparent HD holographic lenses. When you put the headset on, the device is capable of projecting computer graphics into your field of vision – so it looks like these digital objects are part of your real-world. This seamless integration of graphical elements into your normal view differentiates the technology from virtual reality headsets like Facebook’s Oculus Rift and Sony’s Project Morpheus, which immerse you in a digitally constructed world. Confused? Um, the coming world of immersive entertainment is maybe not for you.Hololens also features an array of sensors so it can work out where you are, how you are moving, and what’s happening in the environment around you. It has a basic understanding of the objects in your field of view, too, so it recognises doors, windows, chairs, tables – elements it can use when overlaying visuals. Plus, there’s a mini-computer – or holographic processing unit - built in, so you don’t have to plug it into a computer or games console. Hololens can go anywhere with you.The device itself looks suitably futuristic. The visor is attached to a high quality plastic band, which also contains the sensor array and the self-cooling computer processor, as well as built-in speakers with 3D spatial sound. Within this is another band, which fits over your head, with an adjuster wheel on the back to tighten it up. I slip it on carefully, and it’s surprisingly light and easy to set in position. I’ve heard some people say it’s either too tight or too loose, but for me, the lenses stay comfortably in place, directly in front of my eyes and I can move my head without it wobbling. Hololens is a work in progress and it seems some re-designing has been carried out since theoriginal protoypes were shown in January.Attack of the robot scorpionsThey start me off with Project X-Ray. A simple menu screen is projected onto the wall in front of me, and to select the demo, I just have to lift my hand up in front of the device’s sensors, raise a finger then make a sort of clicking gesture, like pressing the button on a mouse. This selects the demo and it starts running.Now I’m in the game, a sort of first-person sci-fi shooter. A voice tells me that there’s an invasion of robots coming and I have to prepare myself. I have an Xbox One controller, which acts as my laser gun trigger, and it fires wherever I’m looking. Suddenly, I hear a sort of digging noise and cracks start appearing in the wall in front of me, then chunks of rock burst out and I can look into what appears to be a tunnel. A tunnel behind the wall of an E3 demo room. Then robot scorpions start running out crawling onto the wall and firing at me. They scuttle about, some launch into the air around me. Their projectiles are reasonably slow, so I can dodge them, but later enemies fire waves of bullets, which I have to duck underneath to survive.It’s surprisingly physical. As the attack heats up, robots start bursting into the room from behind me, and either side, so I have to listen out for the tell-tale scratching noises – already I’m imagining how terrifying this would be in a horror game like Resident Evil. Some robots even burrow along the interior walls so you see masonry cracks spreading out along the entire surface. It’s weird, but incredibly involving. By the end, multiple robots are firing at me, so I use a power-up on the pad’s left trigger that slows down time, allowing me to shoot multiple scorpions, earning a combo bonus. By the end, I’m almost breathless having darted about the room firing wildly for five minutes, completely immersed and almost unaware of the two Microsoft coders watching my every move.Certainly, I’ve played basic “mixed” or “augmented” reality experiences in the past. In 2003, an early mobile phone game called Mosquito Hunt overlaid its graphics onto the camera display, so you could jerk your phone around blasting at imaginary insects. Nintendo’s 3DS console came with a range of interesting AR demos that let mini-game characters appear out of your environment. But this is different. The fact that the screen overlays your visual field, that the computer graphics are contextual and high definition, and that the tech is using the actual walls in the room as props, all heighten the experience immeasurably.“We knew from the beginning that Hololens would need to have an understanding of the user’s real environment – we knew it would make the gameplay unique for each person, based on where they play,” explains Microsoft’s corporate vice-president Kudo Tsunoda, just before my demo. “However, as we started building more character-driven narrative experiences, we didn’t fully understand the level of emotional engagement and intensity that you can create with somebody by having the characters and the story play out like right there in their real world.“One of the great things about gamers is that you get so attached to your favourite characters and stories. So when you start seeing those characters coming to sit down on your sofa or interacting with different parts of your house, there’s a level of immediacy and intimacy that goes beyond anything you can experience while sitting in front of a television screen.”The Minecraft experienceThis becomes obvious in our second demo, the one I’d been waiting for: Minecraft. Once again, the program projects a 2D menu screen onto a wall, which lets me select a Minecraft world and load it up. Then, I’m told to look at the table behind me and ask the application to place the world right there. Suddenly, the surface of the table seems to drop down, and out of it rises an entire Minecraft landscape, jutting up into the room, looking as solid and colourful as a Lego model. I can walk around it and peer down at the sheep milling about; I can look into the windows of a house. One of the demo staff is controlling a character and I can watch him run and leap about the scenery. With a series of simple voice commands, I can ask the camera to track the character’s movement so I can look in right behind him and follow his actions more closely.Microsoft Studios executive Saxs Persson demonstrates how the HoloLens is used to play Minecraft at E3 2015.Photograph: Damian Dovarganes/APCleverly, Hololens also comes with an array of physical commands, like a touchscreen phone. To move the map around, I simply make a pinching motion in front of my eyes and then move my hand – the Minecraft map moves with me, up and down or side to side. If I pull it up high enough, I can see the subterranean environment, the tunnels and caverns, the flowing streams of lava. I can ask for a marker to be placed where I’m looking, so interesting spots can be explored later, I can even request for a signpost to be placed in specific areas, and then “write” a message on it using a speech-to-text interface. (Though this doesn’t seem amazingly accurate right now – I want to write “there’s gold in them there hills”, but something about a “nice weekend” comes up instead.)It’s rather beautiful, and it suggests that Hololens could become a creative tool, allowing gamers to easily modify and create their own levels. “Most people don’t have an inherent understanding of how to create in 3D – it can be very complicated on 2D screens,” says Tsunoda. “This is one of the places that Hololens and gaming come together in a very interesting way – allowing a lot more user-generated content, not only as part of the gameplay but also involving players in the creation of the game and how the gameplay evolves. I think we’re going to see more communities adding to and customising the games they play. That will be very cool.”The main downside right now, is the restricted field of view that the graphical elements can appear in. There is a rectangle in your immediate vision, where digital content is visible – look away from that, and you lose it. Unlike virtual reality technology that completely surrounds your vision, Hololens is only active in this one central sweet spot, it’s not peripheral.This is fine in demos like Project X-Ray where you have limited, discreet areas of action – i.e. small robots coming through your wall. But with the Minecraft demo, it was a little frustrating, viewing this vast and beautiful 3D model, but having to keep moving your head to keep it in the centre of your vision so that the whole thing didn’t disappear. Tsunoda has said thatthe field may be increasedbefore release, but not by much. I think this will very much dictate the sorts of experiences we can expect, especially in games.Other than that, three key questions remain: price, release date, battery life. Microsoft is saying that Hololens will appear “in the Windows 10” timeframe, so late summer or early autumn, then. But we’ll see. There’s no clue on the other vital elements.But clearly this is a fascinating new technology, not just for games, but for many areas ofscience,educationand the arts. It will be interesting to see more from rival mixed reality solutionMagic Leapwhich is being backed by Google; it will also be intriguing to discover what happens when these augmented reality solutions go up against the virtual reality visions of Oculus, Sony and HTC.“VR and mixed reality are complimentary technologies,” says Tsunoda. “However, the more you can allow people to interact with their real world and real people, the more that you get everyday use cases for a technology. It’s this that can take a product into the mass market.”
Boris Johnson, the mayor of London, has suggested that Uber drivers should have to pass language and geography tests before being allowed to operate in the city.Speaking at his last ever State of London debate, Johnson came to the defence of black-cab drivers, who have been locked in a rivalry with cab app Uber since the firm came to the UK.Johnson said: “It is not fair that a black-taxi driver has to spend four years getting the Knowledge and somebody else can just cruise in and take up the trade without really knowing how London works and how it all fits together.“TfL (Transport for London) are currently consulting on a proper geographical test so you can’t drive a minicab in London unless you know one end of the city from the other.“We will do it in the same way we do for black cabs. It won’t be like the Knowledge because I think it is important that the black cabs retain their distinctiveness.”TheKnowledgeis the name given to an extensive test that black-cab drivers must pass before driving in London.Uber, the San Francisco based minicab firm part owned by Google, came to the United Kingdom inJune 2012.Related:All hail Uber! But what about the black cabs?Criticisms have been aimed at the firm over some drivers’ apparent limited knowledge of London streets, although Uber has a test its drivers are required to sit before joining the firm.Black-cab drivers’ protests have also focused on Uber’s low pricing model. The latest protest against the firm, organised by United Cabbies Firm,took place in May.Johnson said Transport for London was not in a position to ban Uber, but said he disliked the “attitude” of “gigantic American internet companies”.He told the audience at Indigo Hall: “I might not like some of the brash attitudes of these gigantic American internet companies and the way they think they can come over and disrupt the market in this country.“I disapprove of it, I think they are setting out to do serious economic damage to the black-taxi trade but it is not possible for me simply to ban something and to expect that ban to work.”How we tested Uber’s system of checking cab driversAn Uber spokesman said: “Uber agrees with Boris. We already interview our drivers face to face to ensure they have the necessary language skills but we would support a more stringent English language requirement for private hire drivers.“A topographical test is currently undertaken by all PHV (private hire vehicle) drivers, but we also agree it should also be reformed.“We would welcome a revision of the test to make it more stringent and to update content to reflect the needs of drivers and their ability supplement their own knowledge of the city with satellite navigation.”Though Johnson was in full voice in his support for cabbies at Indigo Hall, the mayor did alsohit the headlines last weekfor telling a black-cab driver who shouted abuse at him to “fuck off and die”.
Electronic music site Resident Advisor has launched its first app for its community of fans, taking its listings for clubs and concerts mobile.The freeRA Guide apphas been launched for iPhone, with an Android version to follow at a later point, and will provide listings for more than one million artists, venues and events, and provide a ticket-selling service.Users will be able to mark their favourite musicians and DJs, with the app also scanning their iTunes library to identify artists whose music they own – a feature also used by existing music-event apps likeSongkickand Bandsintown.Those – along withLondon-focused Dice– are one obvious branch of competition for RA Guide, although they focus on all genres of music. Other apps like Yplan cast their net wider to include theatre, comedy and other events.Resident Advisor co-founder Paul Clement told the Guardian that his app’s narrower music-genre focus will better serve its community of dance fans – the most direct rival is German startupBeatguide’s app – and particularly people deciding to go out on the spur of the moment.“In some markets like London, maybe New York, for the big shows stuff sells out. But in loads of markets you know you don’t ever need to pre-buy anything: ‘if we feel like going there at two in the morning and we’re up for it, we’ll go’. You can see from our site traffic that by a certain point on a Friday night, the primary use for the site is event listings,” he said.“And a lot of that traffic is mobile as well, because the site is responsive design. In cities like London, especially, there’s now more overall traffic on mobile than there is on desktop. It was resource more than anything, which was why we didn’t get something like this done sooner. There’s no point building an app if your site isn’t doing what it needs to. The app will just suck if so.”For now, people buy tickets via an in-app web browser using their credit cards, but Clement said Resident Advisor is planning to add the Apple Pay mobile payments system as Apple rolls it out around the world.Related:Dice gambles on shaking up gig tickets: 'We're getting rid of the friction'Also missing at launch are the social networking features from the website. “We thought it was better to go out now than in two months with some social stuff involved. The same goes for push notifications: we’re launching without it, but within the next couple of releases some of those will be in there too,” said Clement.The ability to comment on events will also make the leap from website to app in a forthcoming update, although for now Resident Advisor is not bringing across the other key part of its existing community: its magazine-style editorial.There is also no integration of streaming services like SoundCloud, Spotify or YouTube to provide streams of music by the DJs and artists whose events are listed in the app – one of the most prominent features in Beatguide.“For now, the app needs to be refined to what’s going on, and the events. There’s potentially music, potentially editorial, potentially film content, that sort of stuff,” said Clement.For now, Resident Advisor will be promoting the app to its community of electronic-music fans. The site currently attracts nearly 2.7 million unique monthly visitors, with more than 10 million people having visited since the start of 2015.
If you’ve ever drunkenly emailed your devotion to a former partner or accidentally used reply-all on an email thread to thousands of colleagues, good news: Gmail’s “undo send” feature has come to the masses.The feature, which can prevent massive social embarrassment and help avoid long chats with the HR department about what you just mistakenly sent to a colleague, is to be a standard part of Google’s webmail.It can be turned on from within Gmail’s settings menu and enables people to set a “cancellation period” of five, 10, 20 or 30 seconds after sending any email, during which they can call it back.The feature has been available in Gmail’s experimental Labs settings for some time, and was recently added to the company’s Inbox mobile email app – so many of Gmail’s more tech-savvy users will have set it up already.With900 million active Gmail users, however, many will not have been digging through the Labs experiments, so making Undo Send a formal setting will bring it to the attention of many more people.“Today we’re adding ‘Undo Send’ as a formal setting in Gmail on the web,”explained Google in a blog postas the change went live.Related:Google eavesdropping tool installed on computers without permission“‘Undo Send’ allows people using Gmail to cancel a sent mail if they have second thoughts immediately after sending. The feature is turned off by default for those not currently using the Labs version, and can be enabled from the General tab in Gmail settings.”In May, Google executive Sundar Pichai said that 75% of Gmail users access their accounts from mobile devices. For now, if they want the ability to unsend emails, they’ll need to install the company’s Inbox app rather than using its main Gmail app or mobile website.Gmail describes its Labs experiments as “crazy experimental stuff … a testing ground for experimental features that aren’t quite ready for primetime”.Among those yet to graduate to format status are an option to show an authentication icon next to genuine emails from companies like eBay that spammers often try to fake, and a “canned responses” feature to set up common replies as buttons next to Gmail’s composition form.
Wednesday! Today’s screenshot isCrossoutfrom Gaijin Entertainment and Targem Games. It’s a team based multiplayer vehicle combat game set in a post-apocalyptic world, where society has seemingly descended into a series of truck battles. This is a very realistic scenario, so Crossed is basically a training sim.
There was a time, about two decades ago, when the rate of teenage pregnancies was one of the hottest of issues. Barely a week would go by without tabloid headlines lamenting their frequent occurrence. Then things quietly began to change.In both Britain and America pregnancy rates for girls and women under 20 began to fall, and they have now been falling almost continuously for more than 20 years, according to figures from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) and the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).Theories as to what caused the fall abound, from increased access to contraception, to the airing of MTV’s hit TV show 16 and Pregnant. (In 2014researchers foundthat a 6% reduction in teen births in the 18 months following its broadcast could be attributed to the show’s success at talking to young people.)Now, researchers at the German institute for the study of labour (IZA) have found another potential contributor:the spread of high-speed internet.Melanie Guldi from the University of Central Florida and Chris Herbst from Arizona State University conclude that “at least 13% of the total decline in the teen birth rate between 1999 and 2007 can be explained by increases in high-speed internet access” in the US.They hypothesise that the decline could be because of teens becoming less sexually active, or because of an increase in contraception use, or both together, although the data is not clear enough to distinguish between the two. They found a corresponding decline in STI transmission as high-speed broadband rolls out which could correspond to both. They also found no evidence that broadband access leads to changes in abortion.The researchers used a dataset of broadband rollout from the FCC, combined with county-level information on birthrate for girls aged 15-19, resulting in 22,824 county-year combinations to compare.They write: “Broadband internet has the potential to shape in powerful ways the nature and intensity of individuals’ social connections as well as the quantity and quality of information received on relationships and sexual health … Americans are increasingly turning to the internet for a wide range of advice on romantic relationships, sex, and contraceptive methods.“Americans – including teens – are asking for guidance on everything from whether they should have sex with a certain individual and the most effective forms of contraception to how to deal with a cheating boyfriend. Teens, who now spend more time engaging with various forms of media – much of it on-line – than any other activity (aside from sleep), are particularly well-positioned to take advantage of new information and relationship landscape created by explosion in broadband internet.”Reducing teen pregnancies is just one of the many plus-sides of increased broadband access.Recent research showsthat better internet connections can increase monthly household income by £200 in developed households, by improving access to learning and working from home.And on top of all that,cat videosload in seconds on broadband. Maybe that’s the real reason for the decline in teenage pregnancies: today’s teenagers are just too busy watching YouTube.
Privacy campaigners and open source developers are up in arms over the secret installing of Google software which is capable of listening in on conversations held in front of a computer.First spotted by open source developers, the Chromium browser – the open source basis for Google’s Chrome – began remotely installing audio-snooping code that was capable of listening to users.It was designed to support Chrome’s new “OK, Google” hotword detection – which makes the computer respond when you talk to it – but was installed, and, some users have claimed, it is activated on computers without their permission.“Without consent, Google’s code had downloaded a black box of code that – according to itself – had turned on the microphone and was actively listening to your room,” said Rick Falkvinge, the Pirate party founder,in a blog post. “Which means that your computer had been stealth configured to send what was being said in your room to somebody else, to a private company in another country, without your consent or knowledge, an audio transmission triggered by … an unknown and unverifiable set of conditions.”Related:Google to exclude 'revenge porn' from internet searchesThe feature is installed by default as part of Google’s Chrome browser. But open source advocates are up in arms about it also being installed with the open source variant Chromium, because the listening code is considered to be “black box”, not part of the open source audit process.“We don’t know and can’t know what this black box does,” said Falkvinge.Opt-in or opt-outGoogleresponded to complaints via its developer boards. It said: “While we do download the hotword module on startup, we do not activate it unless you opt in to hotwording.”However, reports from developers indicate otherwise.After having identified Chromium as the culprit, developer Ofer Zelig saidin a blog post: “While I was working I thought ‘I’m noticing that an LED goes on and off, on the corner of my eyesight [webcam]’. And after a few times when it just seemed weird, I sat to watch for it and saw it happening. Every few seconds or so.”Google also blamed the Linux distribution Debian for downloading the non-open source component with Chromium automatically, rather than Google Chrome.“The key here is that Chromium is not a Google product. We do not directly distribute it, or make any guarantees with respect to compliance with various open source policies,” Google developermgiucasaid.Falkvinge countered Google’s explanations saying: “The default install will still wiretap your room without your consent, unless you opt out, and more importantly, know that you need to opt out, which is nowhere a reasonable requirement.” He says a hardware switch to disable the microphone and camera built into most computers is needed.Voice search functions have become an accepted feature of modern smartphones, but their movement into the home through the smart TV, and now browser, have caused concerns over the possibility of being listened to within the home.While most services require a user to opt in, privacy advocates have questioned whether their use, which requires sending voice recordings over the internet to company servers for processing, risks unintentionally exposing private conversations held within the home.A Google spokeswoman said on Wednesday: “We’re sure you’ll be relieved to learn we’re not listening to your conversations – nor do we want to. We’re simply giving Chrome users the ability to search hands free at their computers by saying “OK Google” while on the Google homepage – and only if they choose to opt in to the feature.”•Google pulls listening software from Chromium•Samsung’s voice-recording smart TVs breach privacy law, campaigners claim
Photo agency Getty Images has been added as an “interested third person” to the European Commission’santitrust investigation into Google, according to reports.Google is accused of distorting search results in favour of its own services, including Google Shopping, Maps and several others, affecting competitors from travel sites to price comparison companies.Getty filed an antitrust complaint over Google’s image search, which could lead to the EC expanding its investigations to include the service,according to the Wall Street Journal.The photo agency has complained that searches for images through a standard Google search box heavily feature results from Google’s own image search service. Getty argues that this high prominence drives more traffic to Google at the detriment of Getty and other services. It also claims that Google Images’ display of photos from sites and publishers, instead of original licensed content, is bad for consumers.Google has refuted the anticompetitive claims. The investigations form part of the growing unease over the dominant position of US technology firms within Europe. The US company holds a 90% search share across Europe.The search company is not the only tech firm currently under the spotlight. Facebook is facing several investigations andlawsuits over its privacy practicesacross Europe.The Council of the European Union recentlyagreed a frameworkfor pan-European data privacy rules, which will send it, the EC and the European parliament into a trilogue this week to hash out a formalisation of new data protection laws.•Europe is targeting Google under antitrust laws but missing the bigger picture
We’re on the show floor at E3 and somewhere within the hulking Electronic Arts stand, as music and gunfire blares out all around us, EA Sports senior producer Nick Channon and I are preparing to play Fifa 16. Naturally, the game’s demo mode features the two teams of the moment – Barcelona and Real Madrid. Generously, Channon has let me play as the former.But we’re not just having a kickabout. Nick wants to show off the changes to this latest iteration in EA’s annual footie sim. And, as usual, there are big promises.This time, though, they’re not centred on one or two targeted areas of the simulation. “We took a step back this year,” says Channon. “We got to a stage with Fifa 15 where things were a little bit unbalanced. We felt we had really good technology and lots of good systems, but we wanted to improve them all. We literally looked at the whole game, we looked at how to improve shooting, passing, everything.”So here’s what we can expect.Defensive swing steps“A lot of the player feedback was, ‘we want to have more confidence in defence’. It’s quite difficult to keep up with skilled wingers like Bale and Ronaldo so a lot of people ended up just playing as Real Madrid. We didn’t feel the defence was as tight as it could be. Everyone loved how dribbling worked last year but it was quite difficult to keep up.”Consequently, the Fifa team has sought to make players feel more responsive while defending. One result is the new “swing step” move where defenders are able to quickly switch direction while running back toward their own goal in front of an attacking player. This apparently stops the player from over-running and creating gaps for the opponent to accelerate through.Reactive AI markingChannon says the AI defenders have also been tweaked so they work more as a unit. In one example he shows us, Real Madrid is just building an attack with Modric on the ball, so the right back is looking to run up the field. However, when the Croatian midfielder loses possession our defender immediately starts running back into position. “Last year he would have kept running forward for a while; he wouldn’t have recognised the situation quite so quickly,” says Channon. “This was creating gaping gaps which could get quite frustrating.”The designers have also changed the man-marking system so that defenders will now recognise if a player is making a threatening run and move in to intercept. Channon shows off a sequence in which Pique breaks out of position to track a run, prompting Rakitic to drift in a cover. “Last year you probably would have been in on goal there,” says Channon. “We’re just tightening everything up a little bit.”Escapable slide tackles“Previously, slide tackles were a bit all-or-nothing,” says Channon. “If you missed, you were done. We wanted to make it more realistic.” He shows off a sequence where Marcelo goes in to tackle Messi, who anticipates the slide and lifts the ball over the leg of the defender. However, if the sliding player hits the tackle button again, he gets quickly to his feet, allowing another stab at an interception. “We can now branch out of the slide tackle animation at any point,” says Channon.I try this on a few occasions and manage to get the timing all wrong, but it should allow more skilled players to control defensive plays more precisely. It also looks like defenders may be able to use this for mid-air blocks, creating rather impressive sliding interceptions.Logical interceptions“We really bypassed a lot of the midfield last year,” says Channon before insisting that, this year, the area has one of the game’s most recognisable changes. The new interception logic system ensures that AI players are much more aggressive in making interceptions. Instead of ignoring the passes that zip past, they’ll stick a leg out and try to make contact.To counter this, EA Sports has also tweaked the passing system itself, adding a new “pass with purpose” feature: if you press the right trigger while hitting the pass button, the ball is pinged a lot faster. “It’s about adding balance,” says Channon. “We obviously don’t want to make it impossible to break through.”When I played against Channon this was the most obvious of the new Fifa 16 elements. The midfield is much more aggressive and risky now, with players like Suarez happy to keep nipping in and breaking up those cross-field passing moves.No-touch dribblingModern players are adept at maintaining control of the ball – while dribbling or while stationary – without actually touching it. “If you look at the likes of Messi and Ronaldo, they body feint and do a lot of movementaroundthe ball,” says Channon.Fifa 16 makes an attempt to simulate this, using the left bumper button. As usual, moving the left stick while on the ball lets you dribble, but then tapping the bumper separates you from the ball. “Think of it like a clutch in a car,” says Channon. “Hold it down, the engine disengages, you’re now not in contact with the ball so you have a moment to feint, fake or body swerve, both while stationary and running with the ball, allowing you to ride a challenge.”Angled crossesCrossing has always been a contentious element of the Fifa experience: too easy to score from in 2014 and too tough in 2015. So what will 2016 bring? “What we’re trying to do now is lead the player a bit more,” says Channon. “In previous games crosses would be a bit square, but now players will put it a little bit ahead to get the attacker to run onto it. There’s more of a margin for error now as we don’t want it to become over-powered, but it gives you an opportunity to come in and get on the end of it.”He shows this off by running Ronaldo down the wing, then chopping in the cross just after the 18-yard line. True enough, the ball swings in toward the goal, putting it out of reach of Karim Benzema, but just within toe distance of an incoming Barca player. Channon concedes that, previously, battles in the box could be a little random as a cross flew in, so this is an attempt to reward player skill with clearer chances. I’m not sure how clear it will be in a proper match, or how it will differentiate from a double-tap whipped in cross – all that will become clear after a few more games.Wrapping a foot around the ballSo, Fifa has had ball physics for ages, but now Channon says his team is modelling the interaction between the foot and the ball in 3D space – thereby leading to more emergent behaviours as one meets the other. What does that mean? Well, if you hit the ball from a slight angle your player is more likely to get their foot around it, adding extra spin and therefore giving it a curved flight.This new ability to pull off bending, driven shots has a downside too – as I discovered to my cost. Several times, I approached the ball at the wrong angle, thereby slicing it away from the goal mouth – which is substantially less impressive. But, hey, it’s probably also authentic.Here’s Aguero wrapping his foot around the ball for Manchester CityPhotograph: Electronic ArtsContextual trainingThis may actually be my favourite new feature. If you press R3 during play, the game brings up a “contextual overlay system” above the player you are controlling, providing a selection of possible moves. If you’re just dribbling the ball in your own half, it’ll probably just suggest short or long passes, together with the relevant button, but once in the opponent’s territory it’ll bring up a range of attacking options. There are several levels of advice to select from, so intermediate and experienced players can get more complex pointers, including tougher skill moves. “It just helps people get more out of the game. I mean, half the people on our own team didn’t know about bounce pass!”It’s not too intrusive on screen and it’s really useful for players who can’t be bothered to study the instructions – or those who played PES for years, and so end up continually hitting long pass rather than shoot when they’re several yards clear in front of an open goal. Obviously that never happens to me. No way.So how effective are the new alterations? It was hard to tell after one match amid the pummelling noise of E3, but it certainly felt fluid and interesting. Defending against pacy attackers seems more robust, and hopefully the new swing step move will augment the jockeying and containing elements, while the “pass with pace” option ups the game on the other side. If the aim is a faster tempo with a wider variety of both attacking and defensive options, EA Sports has done its job for the year.Fifa 16 is released on PC, PS3, PS4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One in September. Nick Channon beat Keith Stuart 2-1.
Science fiction-obsessed children of the 1960s might have been disappointed to know that half a century later they would neither live in space nor get their meals in the form of pills. One thing that would have impressed them about 2015, though, is the ability toorder your own personal hoverbike.You can now do just that, even if it is currently a request for an order with the delivery date uncertain.Malloy Aeronautics, the UK-based firm developing the machine, has already had understandable interest in their creation from the US military.The hoverbike, remote-controlled versions of which are already flying, is heavily based on drone technology, powered by four bladed fans in protective casings. The design is intended to provide stability, speed and, the company hopes, the same range as a small helicopter.The initial version, using two fans, was built in 2011 by Chris Malloy, a New Zealander then based in Australia. Powered by a 1200cc BMW motorbike engine, it was flown using motorbike-style controls.Malloy then set up his eponymous company in Berkshire, in part funded bymoney from the seed-funding website Kickstarter. The firm first developed a drone in the new four-fan design, nowon sale for as little as £595 excluding VAT. They are also building the four-fan hoverbike with investment from theUS Army Research Laboratory.Grant Stapleton, the co-director of the company with Malloy, said no one had yet flown on the new version of the hoverbike: “At the moment, it’s radio controlled, it’s flown as an unmanned vehicle. We haven’t put someone on it yet and won’t do for a little bit, while we’re working on its flight performance, things like that.”Part of the testing involves a scaled-down prototype on which perches Buster, a 3D-printed mannequin fitted with a video camera. Those impatient for a hoverbike candownload and print their own Buster.A prototype of Malloy’s hoverbike.Photograph: KickstarterStapleton refused to be drawn on how fast the eventual bike could travel, or at what height: “We’re still designing it, so we don’t know its full speed or altitude. We’ve got estimates, but it’s not really appropriate to say yet. When you build a prototype, it’s going to be slow and clunky at first, but we’ll find out things that will improve its performance by significant percentages.”Bigger versions could come later, too, he said. “At the moment, we’re just looking at it being able to carry one person, but we’ll see where we go from there. It’s not unreasonable to expect it to carry more people, but we haven’t developed that as yet.”The company is to set up a base in Maryland so it can develop the hoverbike closer to the US military, and it is working on the design with the US firmSurvice.Stapleton said the eventual design would have many possible roles. “We would certainly have a lot more interest in the civilian and humanitarian uses. That’s the part that excites me, personally. It’s a product that’s very versatile, small and inexpensive.“It can get into places that a regular helicopter wouldn’t, and costs a lot less to use. And it’s considerably safer, with these ducted fans. If you bump into something, it’s not going to cause an accident or cause any damage.”As yet, the creation, officially called the Hoverbike Helicopter, does not have a price or a target date for the first deliveries. “Now taking requests for orders,” the company’s website says tantalisingly.Related:The Guardian and Observer are now available on Kindle
It’s Tuesday.
Related:No Man's Sky creator: 'We wanted to build a universe'“A soundtrack to infinity” sounds like the sort of thing a hairy bunch of proggers might say about their new album, but Sheffield post-rock outfit 65daysofstatic can actually lay claim to making one, or at least something very close. The band have been chosen to write the soundtrack for the much-anticipated PlayStation 4 game No Man’s Sky, where the player flies by spacecraft through a galaxy that, in playable terms, will be neverending: it comprises more than 18 quintillion planets, each with its own flora, fauna and, of course, lethal robotic drones, and each needs a soundscape to fit. Manic Miner it ain’t.The difference between an ordinary video game soundtrack and this project is that No Man’s Sky’s universe is procedurally generated. Rather than designers manually building each of its myriad worlds – which would take several lifetimes – the planets are created randomly through complex algorithms. The music needs to follow a similar approach.To do this, 65days – along with writing a collection of songs that will form a more discernible official soundtrack – have been busy assembling a vast library of loops, textures and melodies. These components will be fed into what guitarist Paul Wolinski describes as a “frankly insane audio system”, devised by the game’s musical director Paul Weir. The audio system will randomly create music to accompany the gameplay, reacting to the changeable terrain and becoming more or less menacing depending on whether a character is in danger – a form of composition widely known as “generative music”.The problem with generative music in video games is that, because it has to respond to sudden shifts in gameplay, it tends towards the minimalist, meaning that it often ends up sounding beige. It’s a fate that 65daysofstatic and Weir were keen to avoid. “An awful lot of generative music is ambient, soundscapey stuff,” says Wolinski. “We wanted to write music that didn’t sound like that, but at the same time, because the game is so big, make music that is essentially infinite.”The game’s complex construction means that the band have thus far only been able to work with screenshots and trailers. How well it all comes together won’t be known until No Man’s Sky’s release later this year.“We’re massive control freaks: we never release music that we’re not happy with,” says Wolinski. “But this? This is unknowable.”Yet, for the band, the risks attached to No Man’s Sky are vastly outweighed by the thrill of the game’s potential. Wolinski himself can’t wait to experience the game. “The idea that people could visit these planets that no one in the world has ever been to before [and hear] a version of the song that no one else will hear – and we haven’t heard before – is so exciting.” The sky is the limit.See screenshots atno-mans-sky.com
Amazon’s latest Kindle is an updated version of its Paperwhite, now with a crisper and easier to read screen with twice the number of pixels.The Paperwhite is the midrange Kindle, below the top-of-the-line£170 Voyagethat promises every bell and whistle, and above the £50 basic Kindle. But has Amazon eaten into the Voyage’s advantage by giving the new Paperwhite the same resolution e-paper screen as its flagship?Simple monochromatic designThe backlight makes the e-paper screen look white and is adjustable through 24 levels.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianFrom the outside it’s difficult to see what’s changed. It’s the same screen-focused design. The back is covered in a soft-touch plastic, the front bezel is harder and slightly more grey than the previous generation.There are no buttons apart from the power button on the bottom edge – a touchscreen takes care of the rest. Swipe or touch the right hand side to turn the page, the left to go back. Touch the top to invoke the menu and change settings, adjust the backlight or select a new book.If you have ever used a Kindle or any other e-reader it will be immediately familiar.The 6in screen is the focus. It has twice the number of pixels and a screen density of 88 more pixels per inch (PPI) than the previous generation Paperwhite at 300PPI, which is noticeable when reading text. For comparison the cheapest Kindle costing £49 has a 6in screen with 167PPI, which is noticeably less clear.Related:The Guardian and Observer are now available on KindleThe front light makes the page appear white, which is where its name comes from, and can be manually adjusted from really very bright to very dim for reading in the dark. The backlight is even across the page, but the very bottom of the page looks slightly greyer.It is the best screen ever fitted to the Paperwhite, and while it matches the most expensive Kindle, the £170 Voyage, on pixel count it isn’t quite as high quality.SpecificationsScreen:6in e-paper (300ppi)Dimensions:169 x 117 x 9.1 mmWeight:205g (3G version 217g)Connectivity:Wi-Fi (3G optional)Storage:4GBBattery life:rated for approximately 21 hours of readingNew fonts and featuresThe Bookerly font is designed to be easier to read on-screen.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianAmazon has a new font for its Kindles called Bookerly, which is designed for reading on screen rather than the printed page, and new typesetting features. Combined they make reading on screen easier than using classics such as Helvetica. I found eye-strain wasn’t an issue, even during long reading sessions – it is for me reading on screen on a smartphone or tablet.Amazon’s X-ray, notations, word look-up and progress indicators, which tell you how much longer it will take you to finish a chapter, all add value and interest to the reading experience.Hold a finger on a word or a name and a context sensitive information box pops up, which is particularly useful for abbreviated terms, acronyms or characters you’d forgotten about.Faster and lasts 21 hoursForget a character? The X-ray feature makes it easy to keep track of who is who.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe new Paperwhite is also slightly faster and more responsive while navigating the interface than the previous generation. It doesn’t rival a premium tablet, but feels snappy for an e-reader.The Paperwhite weighs 205g, is 9.1mm thick and is easy to hold in one hand. Turning a page with the touchscreen is easy with two hands, less so with one – buttons on the right- and left-hand edges for page turning would be nice.Amazon claims the Paperwhite lasts for up to six weeks reading 30 minutes a day (21 hours in total) with the brightness set to 10 out of 24 levels. That’s two weeks less than the previous Paperwhite with the same settings, but easily long enough to finish a book or two.I managed to finish two 400-page books with airplane mode on before needing to recharge the Paperwhite. Leaving the Wi-Fi and 3G connectivity on drained the battery more quickly.PriceThe black soft-touch back is easy to grip but picks up dust.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Kindle Paperwhite 2015 costs the same as the previous generation at £109.99 for a Wi-Fi only version with special offers, which puts adverts on to the lockscreen for books and other bits.A version with 3G is also available costing £169.99, while removing the ads costs £10. It is currently available for pre-order shipping on 30 June.VerdictThe new Kindle Paperwhite is Amazon’s best yet. Its light, easy to hold and use, while the screen one of the crispest e-paper screens I have seen. It makes reading a pleasure and I read for longer than I would normally.It’s not a giant leap over last year’s Kindle Paperwhite orthe first one, but is a substantial improvement over Amazon’s basic Kindle and is arguably better than most other similarly priced rivals.It also isn’t quite as good as the Voyage,which is still my favourite e-reader, but it is £60 less expensive.The Paperwhite is therefore for someone who is an extensive book reader, would like access to Amazon’s large library and doesn’t mind being locked into it, but can’t stomach paying much more than £100 for a single-use device. For that purpose, it is excellent.Pros:great screen, easy to use, look-up and X-ray features are great, even backlight, large range of accessories, extensive book storeCons:relatively expensive for a single-use device, no automatic adjustments of the backlight, no page turn buttonsWords, acronyms, abbreviations and footnotes are all accessed by just holding a finger over the letters.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianOther reviews•Amazon Kindle Voyage review: expensive but top quality e-reader•Kindle Paperwhite review: front-lit screen makes reading a pleasure•Tesco Hudl 2 review: a lot of tablet for the money•Apple iPad mini 3 review: a touch more of the same•Samsung Galaxy Tab S review: a rival for the iPad?
Jessie J has performed with a host of musicians in her time: Dizzee Rascal, Ariana Grande, 2 Chainz, Queen, David Guetta, Mary J. Blige, Tom Bleasby… Wait, Tom who?Bleasby is the fan whose video duet with Jessie J went viral last month,notching up nearly 3.6m viewson his own YouTube channel and another 10.3m on Facebookafter the star shared it with her followers.Tom and Jessie never actually met, though. In fact, Bleasby was just one ofmore than 112,000 people who sang Jessie’s song Flashlightwith her, as part of a promotion in music app Sing! Karaoke.Bleasby’s video got the most exposure, but there were others that broke out too: 2.6m YouTube views fora version made by Phillippines-based singer Zendee; more than 810,000 views foranother version by a singer called Lolo A; 687,000 forone by Taufik Hardiansyah in Indonesia; and 395,000 forFairus Adam in Singapore.This was the latest success story for the app’s San Francisco-based developer,Smule, and itsArtist Program. The app allows musicians to record videos singing one half of a duet, leaving space for fans to record their own contributions then share the results online.Related:&quot;Computers have transformed music&quot; - Metronomy and the state of music tech‘Wow, she can really sing’“We wanted to have a new way for artists to engage with their fans, who are actually participating,” says Jeannie Yang, Smule’s chief product and design officer.“It’s her song that she’s singing, using the app, so you get a different version of it than you would on iTunes: it’s very raw and affecting. For the fans, it’s like ‘wow, she can really sing’ because she belted it out.”Smule may not win the same media attention as Spotify, Apple Music or Tidal, but it is one of the quiet success stories of the digital music world.The company’s collection of music apps – Sing! Karaoke, Magic Piano, AutoRap, Guitar! and Ocarina – now have more than 25 million monthly active users singing, playing and rapping some 10m songs a day.Smule charges £2.29 a week, £5.99 a month or £29.99 a year for unlimited access to its apps’ catalogue of music. The business model has helped annual revenues rise from $20m in 2013 to $40m (£25.3m) last year.“We’re a social network that’s as much about creation as consumption. It’s not a karaoke company per se: we’re building a network around music and performance,” says chief executive Jeff Smith.Smule is about more than fans duetting with famous artists. The company recently launched a feature called “group video” for the Sing! Karaoke app, which automatically turns footage of groups of singers around the world performing the same song into single, edited videos.Smule did not release any new apps last year4, opting instead to work on new features for its existing apps, including group video.However, it’s the artist programme that is putting Smule on the music industry’s radar - particularly since the Jessie J promotion. The nature of its apps mean the company does not pay royalties to labels for the master recordings of songs but focuses instead on royalties to music publishers for the compositions.“We count streams and we pay on streams, and the royalty that we’re paying on publishing is probably twice what [US streaming music service] Pandora will pay as a percentage of sales, so it’s legit, and it’s a significant source of income for the folks that have the talent to write songs,” says Smith.“Performers are great, but writers are great too ... there’s something really special about tapping in to these writers and empowering them, and celebrating them.”Related:Streaming in: the new wave of pop stars created by YouTube‘Wholesale transition’Smule’s apps are tapping into the same desire for an audience that fuels people to enter TV talent contests. Yet the company is keen to build more of a community than that suggests.“I think we’re seeing a wholesale transition in media: a democratisation of the process. X Factor and the Voice was a logical venue to be introducing new talent, but it’s not the destination. The pendulum is swinging more and more towards individuals discovering individuals organically,” says Smith.Smith has a theory about what’s happening on Smule, but also on platforms such as YouTube and SoundCloud where users can upload musical performances – or, indeed, vlogs and other forms of entertainment.“I think people want something fresh and authentic. They want it to be real,” Smith adds.
Regulators are being urged to investigate Uber over the taxi app company’s controversial plan to track its customers’ locations – even when they’re not using the service – and harvest details of their contacts.Campaigners at the Electronic Privacy Information Center (Epic) on Monday filed a complaint with the The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) claiming that forthcoming changes to Uber’s privacy policy “threaten the privacy rights and personal safety of American consumers”, “pose a direct risk of consumer harm” and “constitute an unfair and deceptive trade practice”.Epic said the changes, due to come into effect on 15 July, will let Uber collect precise location data of its customers “even after an app has been terminated by the user”.Uber also plans to access users’ address books and collect names and contact information.The new policystates: “If you permit the Uber app to access the address book on your device through the permission system used by your mobile platform, we may access and store names and contact information from your address book to facilitate social interactions through our Services and for other purposes described in this Statement or at the time of consent or collection.”Uber said it wanted access to customers’ address book so that it could “launch new promotional features that use contacts – for example the ability to send special offers to riders’ friends or family”.“There is no basis for this complaint. We care deeply about the privacy of our riders and driver-partners and have significantly streamlined our privacy statements in order to improve readability and transparency,” an Uber spokesperson said in a statement. “These updated statements don’t reflect a shift in our practices, they more clearly lay out the data we collect today and how it is used to provide or improve our services.”Following public outcry at the announcement, Uber’s head of privacy Katherine Tassi said: “We care deeply about the privacy of our riders and drivers”.She said collecting location data was essential to allow the company to connect drivers to riders and “features like ‘split fare’ [in which friends can share the cost of journeys] only work if Uber has access to a rider’s contact details”.“In addition, these changes would allow Uber to launch new promotional features that use contacts – for example the ability to send special offers to riders’ friends or family,” she said. “In either case, users will be in control: they will be able to choose whether to share the data with Uber.”However, Epic said forcing users to figure out how to opt-out of the new features “places an unreasonable burden on consumers and is not easy to exercise”.“In less than four weeks, Uber will claim the right to collect personal contact information and detailed location data of American consumers, even when they are not using the service,” the Epic complaint said. “These changes ignore the FTC’s prior decisions, threaten the privacy rights and personal safety of American consumers, ignore past bad practices of the company involving the misuse of location data, pose a direct risk of consumer harm, and constitute an unfair and deceptive trade practice subject to investigation by the Federal Trade Commission.”
Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey is currently set to stand in as the interim chief executive of the company once current bossDick Costolo steps down at the end of June. But don’t expect Dorsey to get the top job permanently: Twitter’s board of directors has made it quite clear today that they don’t want him.The company announced on Monday that it had hired headhunters Spencer Stuart to find the new chief executive, and confirmed that it wasn’t interested in getting a candidate who spends some of their time elsewhere. “The Committee will only consider candidates for recommendation to the full Board who are in a position to make a full-time commitment to Twitter,”it said in a statement.The statement has been widely interpreted as being directed at Dorsey, who is still the chief executive of electronic payments company Square. Dorsey founded the firm in May 2010, 18 months after his stint as Twitter’s founding chief executive came to an end. According to Nick Bilton, author of Hatching Twitter, that first ouster came because he didn’t spend enough time in the office, leaving work “around 6pm for drawing classes, hot yoga sessions and a course at a local fashion school”.“You can either be a dressmaker or the CEO of Twitter,” the company’s co-founder and Dorsey’s successor as chief executive, Evan Williams, reportedly told him, “but you can’t be both.”Peter Currie, the chair of the committee in charge of finding Twitter’s next chief, repeated the double-edged praise for Dorsey: “The Board has the utmost confidence in the strong management team Dick has assembled and in Jack Dorsey’s ability to lead the company on an interim basis while we identify a permanent CEO,” he said in a statement.“We also believe much more can be done to realise Twitter’s enormous unmet long-term potential. In our next CEO, we are looking for a bold thinker and proven leader capable of helping Twitter fully capitalise on its unique platform for the benefit of users, advertisers and employees, and to maximise value for investors in the years ahead,” Currie added.Twitter’s new chief executive inherits a company with stagnating user growth and revenue far less than what Wall Street expects of a web firm of its size. But recent announcements from the company have shown a product team eager to expand on its strengths, particularly live events and “second screen” use.Revealed on Friday, Project Lightning is one: the new feature sees Twitter taking an active editorial role during live events, seeking out the best content both on and off the network and embedding it in a dedicated section of the social network’s app. The tool bears a similarity to rival Snapchat’s “Live Stories”, which also involves editorially driven content sent out to every one of the app’s users, but bears a stronger geographic focus.Eventually, Twitter sees itself curating seven to 10 events a day, and opening the tools up to external organisations to do the same.
