I've been using Google's email service, Gmail, for the past few weeks. It's brilliant and, for once, I'm not the only one to think so. Dozens of my contacts are now Gmailing to handle their mailing lists.While the service is in its testing phase, new users need to be invited to Gmail. Invites are handed about on an occasional basis to existing users. I've had three. Others may have had more. This means there are probably only a few hundred thousand Gmail users worldwide.Demand is so high that a thriving secondary market has emerged. Invitations to Gmail are currently changing hands for &#163;40 on eBay.What we have here then is a neat economic experiment. Gmail accounts will, at some point, be freely available. But when? Those who buy their invitations today   may get several weeks of use before the hoi polloi, which may justify today's high prices.We can expect prices for invite codes to decline over the next few weeks. Supply will increase as new users eventually earn their own invites to give out. And like bananas, Gmail invite codes will start to go off. When Google has unleashed Gmail to all and sundry, who will pay for access?On the other hand, demand may be booming.Gmailswap.com, an off-beat clearing house for invite codes, is adding several hundred new requests for accounts each day.Now this economic experiment is hardly new. We know that scarcity increases price. Domain names changed hands for millions of dollars because there could only be one "business.com".But in general, the supply of   technology is growing faster than demand can. Moore's Law beats population growth. Dense wave division multiplexing begets bandwidth faster than we can fill the pipes. Ultrawideband and software-defined radio turns the wireless spectrum into a commons that cannot be overgrazed.And where scarcity exists it is for two reasons. Either government has determined that scarcity benefits us as a whole - so wireless spectrum is deemed too valuable to be unregulated. Or because business has choked supply for short-term profit. So music companies have attacked digital distribution in order to sell CDs for &#163;15 a piece.Abundance is a difficult concept for government: control of resources is power, after all. It is equally difficult for many businesses, since scarcity raises prices.Not so for technology businesses. Microsoft was founded on a vision of a computer in every home. Intel creates chips with ever more computing power.And Google searches 4bn web pages in a trice - and for free. But for now Gmail remains a rare commodity, except for one lucky Online reader. I'm going to give away my last invite. Simply visithttp://azeem.azhar.co.uk/gmailand explain why you should get it.
D-day projectThe 60th anniversary of D-day on Sunday is a fine time to visit BBC1's excellent WW2 People's War site. The Beeb has created an archive of recollections, photography and poetry submitted by veterans and their families. It's not too late to contribute a story, nor do you have to be an ex-serviceman to do so. The site says it is keen to hear from civilians and relatives who remember stories told to them by the war generation. Not the most historically accurate, but it is a rewarding resource for anyone desiring a more intimate history.If you want to participate in the commemoration in Portsmouth, there is a well-organised British site. More elaborate is the French Ministry of Defence's English language website. Not only does it feature details of French commemorations, it also offers interactive sections. These include a chronology of events, first-hand commentaries, photos, videos, archive documents and drawings.www.bbc.co.uk/dna/ww2www.d-day60.co.ukwww.liberation60.gouv.frSuper ThursdayThis time next week, three important elections will take place in the UK. June 10's combination of European, local and London elections, on so-called Super Thursday, is likely to be the most scrutinised for years, not least for its turnout. If you are unsure how to vote, or even why you should, the Electoral Commission has provided a website that breaks down exactly what elections are going on in your local borough, how to register, and what you are actually voting for.www.aboutmyvote.co.ukStupid site, manCoyness and Michael Moore are strange bedfellows, so it's a bit of a surprise that there is so little information about his Palme d'Or winning new movie, Fahrenheit 9/11, on his   website. A meagre three still photographs, links to news articles and that's pretty much it. In the meantime, movie watchers might want to amuse themselves with the Moore backlash being whipped up by the US right. Watching his "every move" is Moorewatch.com, a well-presented, slightly ranting weblog that tries to draw the big man's fire away from Bush. Elsewhere, Mike Wilson promises to challenge "everything you know about documentaries" with a film he's trying to get off the ground called Michael Moore Hates America.www.michaelmoore.comwww.moorewatch.comwww.michaelmoorehatesamerica.comDublin in bloomThe 1,000-odd pages of Ulysses, one of the most challenging and controversial novels of all time, follows the compassionate and sensitive Leopold Bloom on his travels across the city on June 16, 1904. For decades, Dubliners have taken to the streets, often in period costume, to celebrate the festival known as Bloomsday. This year's Bloomsday Centenary Festival site features details of the Dublin celebrations, while Irish in Britain offers details of celebrations over here. Ulysses is also available as a free e-text on the Bibliomania and Project Gutenberg websites, and a digital facsimile of a signed first edition has been uploaded by researchers at a Detroit University. There was to have been an annotated web version of the novel launched in time for the 100th Bloomsday, but the James Joyce estate forbade it.www.rejoycedublin2004.comwww.irishinbritain.comhttp://members.tripod.com/fn0rd/ulysses.htmlwww.bibliomania.com/0/0/29/61City scapesThe Nasa Cities Collection contains astronaut photography of cities shot from space and arranged into an archive. The interface is clunky but the images, several of which feature the UK, are sublime.http://members.tripod.com/fn0rd/ulysses.htmlSite for sore...Medictra.com is an interactive healthcare service where you share information about various different conditions with fellow members. The site includes a gizmo that breaks down your diet into nutritional values. Enter your exercise routine and it also tells you how much more (or less) you have to do.www.medictra.comWar gamesKeep your job as president of the US while your country is under terrorist attack - a new Flash-enhanced satire from Future Farmers.www.antiwargame.orgNew &amp; notedHow to make friends by telephonehttp://contactsheet.org/junk/telephone1.htmlCall centre confidentialhttp://callcentrediary.blogspot.comHere kitty, kittywww.infinitecat.comSix of the best:Euro 2004Official sitewww.euro2004.comSupporters sitewww.england-supporters.comInside the England campwww.thefa.comUnofficial sitewww.euro2004-football.comPlay it yourselfwww.euro2004game.ea.comDon't forgetwww.guardian.co.uk/football
The easiest way to pipe MP3 tunes and internet radio stations round your home is to tether a laptop to a wireless connection. If you want a cheaper option, though not especially tasteful, there's BT's Voyager at &#163;160. It's a mini hi-fi device which, apart from an integrated FM tuner, has no direct music sources. Instead, via an FM transmitter plugged into a PC's USB socket users can stream music from a computer/the web (MP3, CDs, internet radio stations) to the Voyager that can be sited anywhere in your home.It works reasonably well, too, with the on board speakers just about loud enough to cover the background FM hiss. Operating the Voyager is, however, quite tricky. Both the PC software and the device's interface are intimidating and there's no easy way to access or search for MP3 tunes on the player. Overall, the Voyager is worth a punt if you have five or six net radio stations you'd like to hear elsewhere in your home.www.voyager.bt.com/mediaplayer/prodinfo.htm
Control: halt, deleteJack Schofield's assertion that employees should never have to delete email from the corporate system overlooks some important facts(Online, May 27). If it were simply a question of giving each user 1GB of storage space there would be a lot less chatter about email archiving. But disk space is not the only issue.Messaging systems are built on databases and performance degrades as the size of these databases increases. Administrators are reminded of this when running backups, restores and maintenance procedures. Users will find their email client sluggish if they have a high number of messages.Designating an in-house, central storage location for message archiving is one alternative. It increases the amount of disk space allotted to each user while reducing the size of the messaging system and it can be backed up to tape or disk.But whatever threshold you set -2GB, even 3GB - some users will reach it, taking up space by storing messages they will never look at again. Executives allegedly waste one hour a week deleting email. It's a safe bet that even more time is wasted searching through a mailbox in which nothing is ever deleted.Jerem CurryLondonJunk emailsSurely the stupidest email ever is the one BT sent me telling me that because of a billing problem (I had changed my credit card and forgot to tell them) it had suspended my   account. Except, of course, I never actually received it as my account had been suspended! Only after a few days of failing to log on did I ring BT who said: "But we sent you an email to tell you". After I patiently explained that I couldn't log on to read it the BT person, after a long and pregnant pause replied, "Yes, I think I can see the problem". I'm still not entirely convinced they did.This is nearly matched by the time that I had to explain to our wonderful, but slightly dizzy, helpdesk supervisor why sending out an email to tell everyone the problem that forced the whole computer system to go down had now been resolved might not be the cleverest idea.Colin SavageManchesterRural affairsI couldn't finish reading your article about BT's broadband delivery policy(Trigger Unhappy, May 27). It just makes me too frustrated. I find it amazing that this process is taking so long. I first accessed the internet in 1997 in a small town north of Cheltenham. After registering enough users and waiting for a turn-on date, BT has moved the posts. Now we have a date: July 2005! BT should double its spending and double its efforts. This is holding back the whole of the country.I've been in university in Cardiff, and using low-cost broadband from NTL for three years has been a joy - and really does change the way we live life. I have seriously considered not moving home at all because I will have to return to narrowband or Home Highway. Broadband is vital for business and general communications. We should have one of the highest connection rates in the world.Tom WakefordCardiffNegative IDMany of us would agree with Steve Bowbrick(Second Sight), May 27)that "simpler, cheaper and more effective measures to increase trust, inter  dependence and transparency" are a better idea than the ID database project. Unfortunately, this is not a possibility. The government is not disinterestedly looking for solutions to real problems.Mr Blunkett's all-seeing eye may falter, or collapse under technological problems, but the official ideology of ID isn't as easy to tackle. Far from fostering trust between individuals and within civil society, the default approach is to undermine it, not only by scare stories but by countless institutional measures. We are not permitted to trust each other; but we must trust the state absolutely.Guy HerbertLondonHigh profileI wonder how many other people are alarmed by the massive increase in Spam they are receiving since BT's switch to BT Yahoo!. This all appears to have started since BT Yahoo! automatically created a Yahoo public profile for my email address, using my email address as the ID.BT assured me that it is not searchable unless you know what you are looking for. Well, I tried several btopenworld.com email addresses using random names and they were all found, so if I can just type random addressees, what can a sophisticated spam bot do?Roland J YoungJust browsingDemand dumbing down of sites for the sake of inferior browsers (Feedback, May 27)? That would be silly. Almost as pointless as asking Netscape to regard Microsoft as a standards body, or asking Microsoft to neither contravene nor ignore W3C specifications.I'm surprised it's only two thirds of users who use Internet Explorer. With enough bleating, more are sure to join the flock.Tim RussellSurrey
Click to callBT is testing a new wholesale service that will allow users to "dial" ordinary voice calls from web-based directories or telephone numbers on websites. The service, known as Wholesale Web Call Connect (WWCC), uses an interface called Parlay X, which BT says "enables different types of networks to work together". In this case, the networks are the public switched telephone network (PSTN), mobile networks and the internet. It is now inviting service providers to join a two-month trial, starting next month, during which, BT will add a setup charge of 0.7p to each call.www.btplc.comWeb trafficReal-time information on traffic jams, plans for roadworks and even the words currently appearing on electronic roadside signs are available on the Highways Agency's revamped website. The live traffic information service uses a series of maps showing whether motorways and major A-roads in England are flowing freely, or suffering delays. The maps show specific incidents and roadworks, and you can also see the output of traffic control cameras at junctions around Bristol.www.highways.gov.ukMoney talksShort of cash? Head for an ATM and you may have to watch a British Airways ad. BA is the first advertiser to use ATM:ad, which has been developed by i-design and runs on Nationwide's network of more than 1,200 remote cash machines. According to research by Quaestor International for i-design, more than 89% of ATM users are "delighted or satisfied with advertising being part of the cash withdrawal process".www.i-design.co.ukThe 64-bit questionMicrosoft's 64-bit versions of Windows are attracting virus writers. Rugrat.3344 is the first virus to target these systems but it is not seen as a serious threat. Symantec and Network Associates classify Rugrat as a "proof of concept" virus testing the waters for future exploits. In many ways, the virus uses   old-style infection techniques: it invades when an infected file is downloaded and executed. Although it has no destructive payload, it infects all executable files in its home folder and any subfolders. 32-bit versions of Windows can not be infected by Rugrat.http://securityresponse.symantec.comSuffolk stuffTwo Suffolk councils are forming a joint venture with BT to improve access to public services. Suffolk county and Mid-Suffolk district councils intend to create a single customer service centre to manage all public access points. County and district services can be reached from these access points, or on the web, to make bill payments or contacting health and social care services easier. The intention is to avoid people being passed between departments or from one council to another to find an answer. The 10-year deal will see BT invest more than &#163;50m of resources and new systems, while Suffolk county council provides &#163;30m.10-year tenureMicrosoft is extending support for its products from seven to a minimum of 10 years to allow users time to migrate to new products. The current support lifecycle offers five years of mainstream support and two years of extended support or maintenance. From this week, Microsoft will increase extended support to five years starting two years after the next version upgrade ships. New versions ship every three years or so, but this may be extended, meaning the product life would exceed 10 years.www.microsoft.com/lifecycleJust the factsNTL is the first UK company to take part in Microsoft's Get The Facts advertising campaign, which claims that Windows-based IT systems can offer lower TCO (Total Cost of Ownership) than Linux. "After investigating the merits of Linux vs Microsoft systems, NTL found that Microsoft offered a low TCO for proven enterprise software, support, reliability, scalability that the Linux platform could not match," says NTL.www.microsoft.com/uk/getthefactsHP open sourceHewlett-Packard is throwing its weight behind two open source packages: the MySQL database and JBoss application server. Both products will be tested, certified and supported as part of HP's Linux Reference Architecture for its ProLiant servers. Apart from increasing the credibility of MySQL and JBoss as enterprise-strength programs, the move steps up HP's challenge to IBM in the Linux market. Despite IBM's investment in supporting open source products, it has shielded its proprietary DB2 database and WebSphere application server from competitive open source software.http://h10018.www1.hp.com
The shift to digital broadcasting is releasing broadcast TV frequencies that could perhaps be used for wireless broadband. The US Federal Communications Commission (FCC) - the equivalent of our communications industries regulator, Ofcom - has announced it is looking into the possibility. It has proposed that wireless devices and wireless broadband providers should be able to operate in unused bands of the broadcast spectrum, and has begun a process for developing rules for unlicensed devices to utilise them. Will the UK do the same?A big advantage of using this spectrum is that signals would be able to travel further and be better at penetrating physical barriers, such as the walls of buildings, when compared with existing wireless technologies.The FCC's proposal covers the use of wireless networking cards, wireless connections to printers and keyboards, and wireless headsets and computer connections for mobiles and phones. Also included would be wireless transmitters used by broadband providers to deliver internet services.Announcing the plans, Michael Powell, the FCC chairman, said:   "The technology promises to dramatically increase the quality and availability of wireless internet connections - the equivalent of doubling the number of lanes on a congested highway."The leading US vendor of broadcast wireless equipment, Alvarion, believes that using TV spectrum is critical. "Wireless broadband is expected to grow from 1% to 20% penetration worldwide within five years. We can only do that if we find new spectrum to deliver services," says Alvarion's vice president of marketing, Carlton O'Neal. "We are at the beginning of a broadband revolution and we are the needy kid on the block. The FCC realises that something has to be done."But, not surprisingly, the idea has been criticised by the National Association of Broadcasters, which has voiced concern about interference with existing TV services.In the UK, Ofcom is acutely aware of the need to manage existing radio spectrum and new spectrum as it becomes available. The opportunity to make alternative use of the UHF spectrum is predicted to be between 2007 and 2010, when the majority of TV viewers are expected to have switched to digital services. But   currently Ofcom has not outlined plans for future uses for that spectrum, and is more focused on "spectrum trading" - ensuring that usage of existing spectrum is maximised in as fair a way as is possible.BT believes the FCC move will not have great impact here. It says it is constantly considering ways of using new spectrum, but reckons TV capacity is unlikely to be used in the UK in the way that the FCC is suggesting. "Spectrum is a limited commodity regulated nationally and internationally, so any new spectrum is of interest. But the properties of spectrum vary, and there is a difference between TV broadcast bands in the US and here. Meanwhile, the data carrying properties of high frequency radio waves (like UHF) is different as it has to travel in straight lines and requires expensive transmitting devices," says Steve Hornung of the Network Technologies Centre at BT Exact.Hornung says BT is currently more focused on developing wireless local area network services and exploiting the technologies such as Wimax - the emerging wireless broadband standards that can deliver broadband for up to 30 miles. But he admits that, despite the consensus view that a worldwide standard for broadband over UHF is desirable, the US could still push ahead with services using the TV spectrum. He says BT will advance the case for such services "if the business case is there".In many ways, the use of the TV spectrum is one of the big decisions facing Ofcom, the creation of which centralised the regulation of broadcasting and telecommunications. In April, Ofcom delivered Driving Digital Switchover, a report that urges the government to set firmer guidelines for switching off analogue TV. Critics expect this to take well into 2012. An Ofcom spokesperson said   that the question of the use of TV spectrum has not yet been discussed, but that all options are likely to be considered.None the less, some industry observers are very optimistic that new mobile services will naturally follow the switchover. Trevor Bignall, development director at Capgemini UK, says that the spare capacity is likely to be used for the delivery of what are known as 4G services - a kind of next generation 3G - offering higher data rates to a wider range of mobile devices and audiovisual equipment. "Such services could complement 3G by providing more advanced business and educational services," he says.There seems to be little doubt that demand for broadband will continue to grow. What remains to be seen is how the most restricted commodity - radio spectrum - will be regulated to meet this demand.
Spam email is now officially near epidemic levels. Anti-spam software firm MessageLabs says that 53% of email received in the UK is spam. In the US it has now reached 78%. So isn't it time service providers took more action to stamp out spam before it reaches subscribers?Some of the larger ISPs already believe they are. Last month, AOL announced that it is filtering out 2bn spam emails a day. Yahoo! and Hotmail filter out about a billion each.In the UK, the Internet Service Providers Association (ISPA), which represents the interests of about 100 UK ISPs, says spam should be tackled at all levels: by legislation, by consumer awareness of desktop spam blockers, and by ISPs themselves.But the ISPA admits that many of its members do not have anti-spam filtering in place because they are concerned about how to make it pay. In addition, it says they are finding it complex negotiating their way around the legal issues of blocking spam on behalf of users. As a result, the ISPA recommends that ISPs offer centralised filtering services as well as urging subscribers to install anti-spam software at the desktop - a double defence against spam.The reality is that most ISPs do a certain amount of filtering that is never seen by subscribers. They monitor bulk emails and use blacklists provided by spam watchers to block those that they believe are from known spammers or carrying viruses - so called "blackholing".But filtering email before it gets to users is somewhat problematic. The main concern is the issue of "false positives" - the blocking of emails that subscribers actually want, or that have been sent by legitimate email marketers.Most spam filters get around this to some degree by placing spam in an accessible folder for a defined period of time: users can look through the spam folder if they wish. Once they have found that the filters are working effectively, users rarely check, but it only needs a few to complain of losing important email to cause a problem.Another drawback with spam folders is that they put a storage burden on the ISP while it temporarily holds huge volumes of filtered emails. AOL tackles this problem by operating a two-tier system: it filters some spam centrally and also gets its subscribers to install anti-spam software on their desktops for free, setting up a spam folder for them to manage. This soft ware allows spam to be blocked collaboratively, in that information about spam blocked by users is fed back to the in-house system.But AOL has been criticised for its in-house filtering. In 2002, it angered US publisher ZDnet because it was filtering out ZDnet's email newsletters. More recently, it has got involved in a legal dispute with US web hosting company C I Host, which claims its customers are being unfairly filtered by AOL. AOL maintains it is only filtering out bulk mail that its subscribers have rejected.Not surprisingly, the direct marketing industry is monitoring the situation, bolstered by recent research by Return Path which found that 17% of legitimate emails were being blocked by America's top 12 ISPs. In the US, a marketing email is allowed unless a subscriber chooses to opt out, whereas in Europe it can only be sent if the receiver has opted in.Some ISPs are still testing filtering with small numbers of users before a full-scale roll out. For example, Pipex has been running a service using Brightmail software for 1,500 Cix subscribers as part of a bundle of services costing &#163;7 per month. But Pipex found that, despite the small number of users, the service has been unable to cope with the volume of spam and was not filtering satisfactorily. It now plans to install a new system using different technology, which it hopes will be more effective.BT Yahoo! also started filtering using Brightmail last year, but switched to the Spamguard system developed by Yahoo! so that it could offer users more customisation. Like AOL's system, which swallows the cost, it is essentially collaborative in that it uses spam reports from subscribers to constantly update the database of known spam.Mike Galvin, director of online services at BT Retail, says that around 50% of BT Yahoo!'s traffic is spam, which is filtered directly or ends up in users' spam folders. Users have up to four weeks to check before spams are automatically deleted. BT typically handles 25m emails a day, but recently this jumped to 100m   when it was the victim of a spam attack.Galvin is at pains to point out the central conundrum for ISPs: "There is no agreed definition of what spam is, but we say it's anything that causes distress to a subscriber." He says that BT has won court cases against email marketers who claim they are being unfairly filtered on the basis of this definition, but admits that BT has had the same problem as AOL in occasionally blacklisting legitimate newsletters due to the difficulty of differentiating such emails from spam. He estimates that the service, which is free, cuts spam to an average of 10%. He says: "I think spam is peaking now: it will slowly begin to be less of a problem because the software is getting more sophisticated and ISPs are working more collaboratively."But not everyone is so optimistic, and Dan Scobie, business solutions manger at Star Internet, reckons most ISPs are still not doing enough: "There is something of a wall of silence on the matter. Most ISPs don't want to invest in these services right now, but I question their thinking. How can they afford not to do it? ISPs are expected to protect their customers: the industry has to face up to this."Scobie is convinced that ISPs can cover the cost of anti-spam services if they charge appropriately. Star Internet runs an anti-spam service using MessageLabs' CleanMail software, costing around &#163;1 per month.But he admits that Star also faces the "false positives" problem, and says the company is about to introduce spam folders so that subscribers can keep an eye on the filtering themselves. It will hold spam for 24 hours before it's deleted.Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at anti-virus vendor Sophos, believes that the in-house approach is often not effective enough: "The anti-spam technology is often failing to deliver effective barriers against spam and in-house solutions often fall short of users' expectations." He blames the problems on poor installations and ineffective product updates.At the government level, there is concern that many ISPs simply cannot afford effective anti-spam solutions. Richard Allan, MP and secretary of the All Party Internet Group, says that the problem is under discussion. "The problem is ISPs must pass on the cost but customers expect it for free," he says. "While it is a very competitive market, it is difficult for most ISPs to swallow the costs of offering anti-spam services like AOL."
What are the tools of your trade?Photoshop and Flash. I use bits and bobs such asPremiereto render stuff andAfter EffectsandGoldwavefor audio. I was working as a web-monkey atReutersin 2000 and I went off to do an MA in Electronic Media, and I'm lucky enough to make a living out of it now.Are sites like B3ta.co.uk a good showcase for web animation?B3tais run by friends but I do think it turns out some great work and it creates a platform for people. One thing that's fantastic about the net compared to other media is that if you've got a good idea you can find a global audience for it without outlaying thousands of pounds.Has broadband helped increase what's possible?One of the nice things about doing broadcast animation is that you don't have to worry about file-size, bandwidth or processor speed. With the net it does pay to bear in mind that not everyone is running a 3GHz processor or has broadband! Broadband allows more freedom but it's worth keeping things smaller if you can.How did you make the transition to making Born Sloppy for Channel 4    and your TV ad work?People got in touch after seeing work on my site, which is encouraging for any kids on the net trying to find an audience - that it is possible to get commercial work in other media on the back of web stuff. There's no reason to restrict yourself to one medium. None of the stuff on Rathergood.com is commercial; it's all stuff I did because it seemed like a good idea.Are TV and advertisers looking more to the net for inspiration?Absolutely. The message I keep hearing from people is that advertising can be so formulaic that people simply screen it out, so getting people's attention is a major hurdle. The web is a rich source for people who tend not to be working to a set of rules they've learned at design school. If you've initially been doing it for fun and you break some rules, then you can end up with something more interesting.Next stage of web animation?It's difficult to say as most of the stuff that's different, such as 3D stuff, requires large video files so you don't then have the accessibility ofFlash. Beautiful as a lot of that work is, Flash is still the only viable tool for delivering to a mass-market that's not going to destroy your server with bandwidth or take half an hour to download. I'm about to put out some stuff that's a hybrid of video and Flash: in the last couple of versions of Flash, you can do nicely compressed Flash-video, which runs as a .SWF file.So how would you sum up what you do?I make kittens dance - what could be more beautiful than that?Visit:www.rathergood.com
Birdsong is not what you expect in an Olympic stadium. But that is what you hear if you enter the stadium where the handball and Taekwondo competitions are to be held in Athens this summer.This stadium has a roof and therein lies the problem. Birds have found the rafters a delightful nesting place, and the stadium's acoustics amplify sound. Yet our guide seemed untroubled by the infestation. "They will go when we put the overhead lighting on for the Olympics," she said. But she failed to elaborate on whether the birds would simply take off, or be fried by the powerful lights.Atos Origin, the Netherlands-based systems integrator for the Olympics, seems to be better prepared. Between now and the start of the games, the company responsible for making all the different IT systems work together, will test, test and test again.There will be 200,000 hours of tests including a full technical rehearsal in mid-June simulating the busiest day of the games. A shadow IT team will try out disaster scenarios, from the possible, such as a massive hacker attack, to the improbable, such as Athens flooding in June.Claude Philipps, the Frenchman   who is chief integration manager for the Olympic project at Atos Origin, describes the pressures: "The biggest challenge is having an immovable deadline. I've worked on lots of large projects but you can usually go to the customer and say you will get your system later. With this project, the deadline is the deadline."Another challenge is the size of the team and the speed of the staff ramp-up in the final stages. We'll go from 100 staff on January 1 this year to 3,400 during the games. Of these, 400 will be from Atos Origin and 2,800 will be IT volunteers from Greece, with varying levels of IT expertise.""At least 40 people on the project have worked with Olympic IT before &#91;Atos acquisition SchlumbergerSema was involved in the winter Olympics in Salt Lake City&#93;, so they can act as mentors. We also provide five documents for new team members, checklists for their first day, and five trainers to make sure they are fully briefed on our policies and procedures, as well as on job-specific stuff."The third challenge is working with so many third parties, suppliers of technology and other companies - like Atos itself - which are sponsoring the games. These include Swatch, which provides the athletes' times.Security is also a challenge. Yan Noblot, information security manager at Atos Origin, says: "From our experience at Salt Lake City, we expect to get about 200,000 security alerts a day. This is too much information - at least 10 computer screens' worth. So we are using software to group similar attacks, and to highlight attacks from two different physical sites   but the same computer address."He is not being paranoid. At Salt Lake City someone managed to get into one of the computer rooms and install a wireless access point. They then tried to control the games systems from the outside, though this was soon detected and prevented.Apart from keeping the computer infrastructure secure and running,   Atos is also in charge of the games management system, which includes online accreditation for the athletes, volunteers and other members of the 200,000 strong Olympic "family". This has links to Greek police and immigration bodies, as a wrongly accredited person could be a security risk.Information diffusion systems, especially getting results to the media, are also Atos' responsibility, including the press agency feed, the touch-screen commentators' information system, and the 2,500 kiosks in the Olympic village, which tell athletes where they need to be and when.People have even tried to hack into the kiosks. Though you aren't meant to be able to use them to connect to the other internet sites or Olympic systems, that didn't stop people trying in Salt Lake City. "We had to secure at least 40 kiosks again at the end of every day," says Noblot."Our goal is for everything to be working so smoothly during the games that we will have nothing much to do on the day," says Philipps. "Boredom is good."The line up&#183;The Olympic committee's IT budget is &euro;350m-&euro;400m&#183;There are 3,400 IT team members&#183;28 sports (37 disciplines, 300 sports events)&#183;Around 60 venues (including 36 for competition)&#183;One 600,000sq ft PC "factory" for assembling PCs&#183;10,500 computers&#183;21,500 journalists needing information from IT systems&#183;One 24-hour command centre, with a back-up centre outside Athens&#183;3-5 years planning for 16 days of games&#183;Joia Shillingford travelled as part of a group of UK press taken to Athens by Atos Origin
The websites of almost two thirds of the UK's top 100 firms fail to meet even the most basic recognised standard of accessibility to disabled people, according to a report published today.Analysis of the websites of the FTSE 100 firms by the digital design company Nomensa   suggests that many disabled people encounter problems, sometimes to the extent that they are impossible for them to use.The report echoes recent concerns expressed by the Disability Rights Commission (DRC) that firms that do no meet minimum standards of accessibility could face legal action.The DRC said it was "only a matter of time" before firms faced a legal challenge from disabled consumers under existing equal access laws, principally the Disability Discrimination Act 1995.So far there has been no highly publicised test case but it is understood that some firms have already been forced to settle out of court on this issue.Today's Nomensa study found that only 37% of corporate websites achieve even the lowest level of accessibility standards approved by the World Wide Web Consortium's guidelines. These are widely regarded as an international benchmark and are supported by the European commission, the US government and firms like Microsoft and IBM.Nomensa's findings were, however, an improvement on a similar report it carried out in January this year, which found only 11% of firms had the lowest "pass" standard of accessibility.Simon Norris, managing director of Nomensa, said the "message is finally getting through" but many firms still had a long way to go. He said that, despite the progress, some firms' sites had actually become less accessible. "Sustainability of access is a key issue as sites grow," he said. "We need to focus on ways of humanising technology."He added that poor accessibility cast a cloud over some firms' commitments to social responsibility.Among the most common problems found in the study was the absence on many websites of alternative text facilities to help users with sensory disabilities. Only 41 firms' sites had this kind of option. Meanwhile 63 out of the 100 firms failed to offer a  capability that allows users to change text sizes.Incompatibility with software that turns text into sound for visually impaired users was another area of concern.      Firms who scored highly on accessibility included Prudential, which was joint top with the Gallaher Group. Centrica, Rolls Royce, Sainsbury and Kingfisher also scored highly. Among the lowest scorers were Safeway, Tesco and Whitbread.A spokesman for the DRC said that the internet was no longer in its infancy and more must be done by firms to improve online access. The spokesman said: "It is important that firms make their websites accessible; there needs to be the same level of service for everyone."In April, a DRC investigation showed that many disabled people struggled to use the internet to do things like book a holiday, open a bank account or buy theatre tickets online.The study also revealed high levels of ignorance among web developers about making their websites accessible for disabled people.A survey that was part of the DRC investigation found that levels of accessibility expertise amongst website developers were low, with only 9% claiming any expertise in access. Only 9% of developers had used disabled people to test their sites.Part of the same study found that the average internet home page contains 108 "barriers" that make it impossible or very difficult for disabled people to use.Blind people were the most disenfranchised of web users. They were unable to perform nearly half the tasks set them despite using devices such as screen readers, the study found.Shaun Pearce, who sells a guide calledWeb Accessibility Now!, said: "It's not just an issue for big firms, but also the many people who run smaller sites using over-the -counter software and who want them to be accessibile."Reacting to the Nomensa report, Prudential said it began to improve the accessibility of its website two years ago and that it was "pleased that the steps we have taken have helped to make our site one of the most user-friendly around".A Prudential spokeswoman said: "We value the relationships we build with all of our  stakeholders and we recognise the important role that the internet plays in  communicating information to many of them."She added that the work was "by no means finished and we will continue to  look at ways of improving the accessibility of our website".
More than half of broadband internet users say their TV consumption has fallen since getting a high-speed connection, according to UK-based research firm Strategy Analytics,quoted in the Register."David Mercer, principal analyst at Strategy Analytics, acknowledged that TV will continue to have a place in the home, and won't be entirely replaced by high-speed Internet, but the impact of broadband will nevertheless be dramatic. 'TV companies have to pay heed to the Internet... they clearly have to look at the Web as a way to reach their audience,' he told ElectricNews.Net. 'Putting TV content on the Web is probably not the best way go about things. A better strategy would be to develop new on-line content that people can interact with.'While I can quite believe the research, I can't say I'm convinced by the analysis. If people are not being engaged by broadcast TV, I can't see what is suddenly going to make it much more special on the web.I'd argue British TV is about to confront the kind of multiple problems that faced - still face - the music industry: a slump in the quality of its content just as consumers are offered a wider range of ways to spend their time and money, and new ways to access that premium content for free, in a format and at a time which suits the consumer but not the supplier.It'll take an awful lot more than a few interactive websites to sort that mess out.
Looks like bloggingruns in the family:-)
"A British mother's chatroom safety device has helped win her the title of the world's top female inventor," reportsBBC News."Beautician Paula Ward was concerned about her 11-year-old daughter's safety during internet chats so she decided to invent a way to block unwanted numbers."Mrs Ward beat 1,000 other hopefuls at Inpex, the world's largest invention trade show in Pittsburgh."
I missed Cory Doctorow's post aboutflash-photographing the copyright messagethat we're all forced to endure in UK cinemas. But I think it sounds a great wee way to protest against the increasing amount of legal-balls we're subjected to every day (and, he says, you get a little round of applause for your cheek).Just two examples of legalese overload that have annoyed me in the last week or two (feel free to add more in the comments): labels on Apple's computer wrapping telling me I agree to a bunch of T&amp;Cs just by unwrapping said laptop, and the amazingly lengthy legal warnings on a commercial DVD (they seem to be longer than ever these days). Do these warnings serve any purpose? Do they make acting illegally any more illegal? They're so irritating they could almost be offered up in mitigation...Anyway, today, Cory'supping the ante: he's planning to test the clampdown on Harry Potter "pirates" at the Odeon on Leicester Square. Ushers atevery British cinema showing the filmhave beenissued with night-scopesin an effort to stop film pirates videotaping the film.I hope the film-makers don't get too many writs from ushers blinded by camera flashes going off after they've donned their nightscopes.
CNet News.com is testing anews servicethat automatically generates lists of news stories either about specific firms or popular topics. The list of companies stretches from 3Com to Yahoo, while topics range from Application Integration to Wireless. The stories are drawn from the usual sources -- such as eWeek and Internetnews.com, Reuters and Yahoo News -- with CNet stories strongly featured. The New York Times and Business Week also creep in. If you are a CNet reader, it is already a useful way of checking to see if you have missed anything. It could be expanded into something really good.
The millionaire chief executive of the Bank of Ireland Group resigned yesterday after he admitted using his office computer to view pornography and access an escort agency website.Michael Soden, 57, issued a statement yesterday afternoon admitting that he had entered websites forbidden under bank policy. He said that the websites visited were not illegal, but did contain links to material of an adult nature.The surprise resignation is the latest in a series of scandals to engulf the Irish banking sector in the past two weeks. It came in a personal statement to the media issued at 2.30pm.Soden said he took the decision to resign for 'personal reasons' and had not been pressured. While he maintained the content of the sites he viewed was not illegal, he accepted it was inappropriate and breached bank policy. He apologised to the bank and its employees for any embarrassment caused.Soden's activities are believed to have been reported by a Bank of Ireland employee who was routinely servicing his computer. The nature of the sites visited is thought to be similar to the content of popular men's magazines.'The images he viewed would be classed as very soft porn, more like page three or Loaded magazine,' said a source within the bank. 'The IT expert also found a site for an escort agency. It's not clear yet if this was in Ireland or if he used the services of the agency.'Although an investigation into the CEO's activities is thought to have been under way at the bank for some weeks, the affair only became public after a Dublin newspaper received a tip-off last week.Eamon Quinn, Business Editor of the Sunday Business Post newspaper, said the resignation came as a result of inquiries made by the paper in relation to an article due to appear in today's paper.A native of Dublin, Soden has been in his post since 2001. His appointment to one of the most prestigious jobs in Irish banking caused some surprise in the industry.'I think some people thought it was a rather eccentric choice and I'm not sure the company ever really took him to its heart. He wasn't a particularly successful CEO,'  said one senior banking figure yesterday.Although the governor of the Bank of Ireland, Laurence Crowley, expressed his 'deep regret' yesterday at his colleague's departure, a senior staff member, who declined to be named, accused his former boss of 'stupidity'. 'I don't know what he was thinking of looking at this stuff during office hours. It was madness,' he said.Soden was previously executive general manager of global business and personal finance at National Australia Bank in Melbourne and has worked in Britain, North America and Scandinavia. He is married and lives in Dublin. He received his secondary school education at Blackrock College in Dublin and is a graduate of UCD.His resignation is the latest in a string of banking scandals. Yesterday the Minister for Transport, Seamus Brennan, accepted the resignation of the chairman of Aer Lingus, Tom Mulcahy, who is a former senior executive with Allied Irish Banks. Mulcahy resigned from his position with the airline after it was revealed that he was one of five AIB executives who were involved in a controversial offshore investment scheme. AIB said in a statement that the five had 'tax issues'.Meanwhile, the other former AIB executives involved in the investment scheme have been named. They include a former AIB chief executive, Gerry Scanlan, the outgoing chairman of Irish Life and Permanent, Roy Douglas, David Cronin, for mer treasurer of Allfirst in the US and the late Paddy Dowling, a former AIB deputy chief executive.Another beneficiary was Diarmuid Moore, formerly the director of group strategic development at AIB in the Eighties.The revelations came as the bank is being investigated for overcharging certain foreign exchange customers and for assigning payment protection policies to some mortgage holders without their knowledge.
"Clearly, this is not Rupert Murdoch's world. In Nick Denton's nanopublishing empire, that last word is usually accompanied by eye rolling and air quotes. The meat of his Gawker Media enterprise, after all, is not newspapers or satellites or movies but weblogs, until recently viewed as non-revenue-generating megaphones for online bloviators. Denton, a part-Hungarian, part-Jewish, matter-of-factly gay and cheerfully iconoclastic 37-year-old British expat, has recruited a squad of talented workaholic misfits who use Movable Type, sexual prurience, and relentless snarkiness to draw enough of a crowd to lure advertisers. While he isn't making a bundle yet - and doesn't claim that he ever will - Denton is making a splash that's seriously rattling the media hierarchy."Wired magazine has a substantial piece about Nick Denton in itsJune 2004issue.
There's a non-story going round about Microsoft producing a $50 music player, and the more aware sites have already withdrawn it or published retractions. The notion was based on a misinterpretation of something MSN's Yusuf Mehdi said to investors at Goldman Sachs's 5th Annual Internet Conference. What he was actually saying was that he'd "spent time with a bunch of hardware manufacturers who will launch hardware products when we ship our [music] service," not that Microsoft would make one. There's a transcript of Mehdi's talkhere.
The final internet chatroom exchange took place on 28 June last year. "U want me 2 take him 2 trafford centre and kill him in the middle of trafford centre??" said one message. "Yes," came the reply.Less than 24 hours later, a 14-year-old boy was critically ill in hospital with stab wounds in the chest and stomach. At first it seemed as though a brutal, but straightforward, robbery had gone wrong. But yesterday the young "victim" became the first person in this country to be convicted of inciting their own murder.An intricate web of deceit had been spun by the boy on the chatroom to recruit another teenager as his would-be killer."This case serves as a stark warning of the dangers of the dark side of the internet," Nicholas Clarke, prosecuting, told the court yesterday.The boy - who is now 15 and can be referred to only as John for legal reasons - persuaded his friend, known as Mark, now 17, to stab him to death in order to pass a fictitious initiation test for the British secret services in a meticulously planned attack one Sunday evening last summer.John, from Greater Manchester, pleaded guilty at Manchester crown court to incitement to murder and perverting the course of justice.He was given a three-year supervision order, banned from contacting Mark or using the internet without strict adult supervision.Mark, who is also from a middle-class family in Greater Manchester, was given a two-year supervision order for attempted murder.Judge David Maddison, the recorder of Manchester, said: "Skilled writers of fiction would struggle to conjure up a plot such as that which arises here. It's staggering to be dealing with a case that arises out of a 14-year-old boy's invention of false personalities, false relationships and events arranged for his own killing at the hands of a 16-year-old boy who he had met via an internet chatroom."He said that under normal circumstances, the offences committed would have resulted in extremely lengthy custodial sentences. "But these could not be described as any normal circumstances," the judge added.The attack left John, a promising grammar school student, close to death. One of the stab wounds pierced his kidney and lacerated his liver. His gall bladder had to be removed and he remained critically ill in hospital for a week.Mark had been fooled by John into believing he was working for the British secret services. He was expecting to meet the prime minister, and be given a gun and up to &#163;500,000 in cash.At first, the police thought the attack was committed by an adult robber described in precise details by Mark. Detectives made appeals for help through the local media for the apparently unprovoked attack in Altrincham town centre.But when officers examined CCTV footage they realised the story was implausible. It showed Mark and John had disappeared down the alleyway - alone - for 25 minutes.From his hospital bed, John said he had been stabbed by Mark but "he didn't know why". In July last year, Mark was charged with attempted murder.But when it emerged that the boys had met through a teenage chatroom, detectives examined their computers.A criminal intelligence analyst, Sally Hogg, pored over 58,000 lines of text generated between them in six weeks. Police were able to link all the fictional characters back to John because Ms Hogg's analysis discovered common features in the typing style, such as the misspelling of "maybe" as "mybye", of all the characters.Detective Chief Inspector Julian Ross, of Greater Manchester police, said: "The initial contact was made when the older boy went into an internet chatroom and talked to a person purporting to be a 16-year-old girl. That girl was in fact the younger boy.""She" then introduced him to her stepbrother, who was John.Mr Ross said: "The older boy thought he was talking to five or six different people when he was in fact talking to the younger boy all along."The crucial character in the deception was a 42-year-old British secret agent called Janet. Mark was told by her that he must commit various tasks and that John was dying from a brain tumour.Then on June 28 Janet told Mark that he had to kill the younger boy. If he carried out the job successfully, he was told, he would be accepted as a spy."Could you stab someone?" Janet asked Mark in the final chatroom exchange."I haven't really thought about it," Mark replied.Janet: "Well think please."Mark: "OK""Everything was planned out the previous day," said DCI   Ross. "It is a tragic event that a 14-year-old boy would try to have someone kill him."The bleakly serious nature of the case is expected to lead to calls for tighter monitoring of internet chatrooms. Belinda Sproston, of the parental control software firm CyberPatrol, said: "The conversations that these boys were having would not have been allowed in a monitored chatroom."
For more than two decades now, Sony has dominated the consumer electronics market. The company is widely regarded as the market leader in design, innovation and the quality of its  products.However, in the past few years its position on that pedestal has begun to look unstable. It has largely ceded the high-end personal audio market to  Apple, while other companies have outmanoeuvred Sony in the DVD industry. Most worryingly, it failed to anticipate the dramatic shift from standard CRT (cathode-ray tube) television to Plasma and  LCD (liquid crystal display) flat screens, allowing rivals to grab a huge lead in these  markets.So it  is no surprise that barely a month seems to go by without a PR or an analyst  proclaiming that one of the consumer electronics companies is set to become the  new Sony. This  month it was Samsung's turn. At a glitzy product showcase in  London's East  End, the company took the wraps off a range of products it hopes will maintain its position as a leading brand. "By 2006/2007, we'll be up here with Sony," said Mark Neave, Samsung's consumer electronics manager, who may or may not have been entirely serious.Judging by the breadth of the product range, which includes everything from the world's smallest MP3 player to an 80in (203cm) plasma screen, the largest on sale in the UK, Samsung has certainly made some huge  strides in the past two years.The  company's early investment in flat screen technology is reaping rewards and if,  as it predicts, people move from CRT to flat screen sets faster  than analysts had expected, it is in a superb position to  capitalise. However, for it truly to rival Sony, Samsung would have to shed its image of a company that  was built on budget goods.It is not only trying to be innovative in the digital arena. "It has done an excellent job of using mobile phones to  reshape perceptions of who it is," says Anne Thompson, of  the branding agency Onesixtyfourth.In the space of four years, Samsung has gone from nowhere to become the third  biggest mobile phone brand in the UK, producing neat clamshell handsets that have  helped it to take a chunk out of Nokia's and Sony Ericsson's market shares. The  company now hopes that customers impressed by the handsets will buy their TVs, DVD players and PC peripherals. This is a ploy that has been copied by the company's arch rival in Korea, LG.Samsung's other tactic has been to stand back from the format wars and  try to offer consumers the best of everything. For example, Samsung is the only company to give consumers a choice of smart phones that use all three operating systems (Symbian, Palm and Microsoft). It is also one of only a handful of manufacturers to offer products  compatible with Secure Digital storage cards and its Memory Stick  competitor.Such flexibility has enabled Samsung to offer some distinctive products. At its showcase, it debuted the first range of DVD players with HDMI  (high definition multimedia interface) connectors. When connected to plasma and  LCD screens, the latter offer even higher quality audio and video than do existing RGB  Scart sockets as they work completely in the digital domain and do not require any digital-to-analogue conversion.Samsung has taken a chance on newer technologies, introducing digital radio receivers into home cinemas and digital terrestrial decoders  into flat screen TVs. Some of its TVs now boast WiseLink card slots compatible with almost  all the leading cards on the market, enabling viewers to display easily images  shot on digital cameras on their living room sets."We accept that not every home is a Sony home or Panasonic home," says Mr Neave. "They have a mixture of products from different brands. What we  are offering is the chance for consumers to link all the products together. This  is an attitude reflected in our key message for 2005: 'digital  unison'."It is refreshing to hear someone champion open standards and interoperability in consumer electronics rather than hearing companies bang on  about the delights of their proprietary technology. It certainly has an appeal  to more sophisticated consumers. But will it give Samsung an edge over  its Japanese rivals?"Sony appeals to a wider audience than does Samsung. Sony cuts across generations," argues Ms Thompson."For many people in their 20s, Sony is still aspirational &#91;because of its reputation and premium price&#93; but not  relevant for them," he says. "With its sleek product designs and the young, attractive  people in its advertisements, Samsung has captured younger audiences. But has it  captured Sony's traditional base? Not yet."Mark Iremonger of the brand agency unit9  also believes that it may all come  down to image. "If you  look at Samsung online, it presents itself as a producer of high technology  products. By contrast, Sony presents itself as a lifestyle-enhancer; it invites you to 'see, hear, play, shop', while Samsung invites  you to learn about its latest technology. Samsung has got to move its brand personality from a product and technology focus to an  aspirational and lifestyle one, if it is to have any hope of stealing Sony's  crown."The next couple of years could be  very interesting for the Koreans.
"This world's first museum devoted to the genre ofscience fictionis almost here" thanks to Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen. "Opening June 18th, 2004, the Science Fiction Museum and Hall of Fame will be co-located with Experience Music Project in the landmark Frank Gehry building at the Base of the Space Needle, Seattle, Washington."The museum is being discussed onSlashdot.
"Blogging is a pastime for many, even a livelihood for a few. For some, it becomes an obsession. Such bloggers often feel compelled to write several times daily and feel anxious if they don't keep up. As they spend more time hunkered over their computers, they neglect family, friends and jobs. They blog at home, at work and on the road. They blog openly or sometimes, like Mr Wiggins, quietly so as not to call attention to their habit," saysThe New York Times[free reg req'd]."'It seems as if his laptop is glued to his legs 24/7,' Ms Matthews said of her husband."
A children's nursery has taken the potentially risky step of installing 10 web-cameras to let anxious parents peep at their offspring from computers at work.The password-accessed viewing has been taken up by almost all the clients of the Kinder Castle nursery in Huddersfield, despite the possible angst that might ensue if the camera happens to catch one child bopping another or a little darling bursting into tears.The cameras are trained on areas where the children are playing, snoozing or eating, and each user is allowed to see   only the room being used by their own daughter or son.Most of the 40 places are taken by Huddersfield University staff and business commuters to Leeds and Manchester, for whom computer use at work is standard."We've installed the system as another way of reassuring parents that their children are fine," said Catherine Wright, one of the staff at the nursery."That way, they can get on with their work more efficiently, knowing the children are OK and that they can always have another look when they like."Parental computers have been busily logging on to the system.The children cannot peep back - the sight of absent parents would be a sure cause of tears.But a television monitor of the nursery lobby is sometimes used to ease any tantrums at dropping-off time by letting parents and toddlers wave goodbye a second time on screen.
It was, at long last, the news many in the countryside had been waiting for. The recent decision by BT to accelerate its delivery of broadband to the outer regions of Britain promises to bring high-speed internet access to 99.5% of the UK by June next year.BT says it is spending in excess of &#163;200m on enabling the remaining 2,300 local telephone exchanges that cannot yet receive broadband. But last month's announcement has met with a mixed response from the very campaigners the decision was meant to appease. On BT's internal website - transcripts that have been obtained by the Guardian - a variety of rural campaigners from across the UK are voicing concerns over BT's latest policy shift. Some say it could mean a longer wait for broadband to be installed at their local exchange.At the heart of the confusion is the scrapping of ADSL (asymmetric digital subscriber line) trigger levels - a controversial, although popular, method used by BT to assess which local exchanges were likely to be the most commercially viable. Since its launch in July 2002, the broadband registration scheme had recruited ranks of local campaigners - effectively unpaid marketing workers -   to drum up support for rural broadband. In less than two years, the campaigners have garnered more than 880,000 registrations of interest, which has led BT to enable more than 2,000 countryside exchanges.Under the old demand registration scheme, BT promised to enable an exchange in 12 to 13 weeks once enough "registrations of interest" had been collected and the trigger level had been reached. But the new announcement means that, in extreme cases, some exchanges could wait anything up to 15 months for their exchange to be enabled.BT says the "extraordinary" work of local campaigners has convinced them there is now a "viable economic case" for enabling with broadband all but the most remote local exchanges. In other words, the trigger level scheme has become a victim of its own success. "The exchanges were triggering faster than anyone could have predicted," explains Donna Young, head of broadband rollout at BT. "We did more in the past three months than we had in the previous year... it got to the stage where we couldn't keep our promises."One of those affected by the dropping of the registration scheme is Mark Studden, a freelance IT consultant who lives in a village in Gloucestershire. For the past few months, he has been leading a campaign to get BT to install broadband. But last month, when he was on the verge of hitting his target, BT said the trigger levels were no longer needed."There has been a monumental failure of vision at BT," says Studden. "Why couldn't they have made this decision two or even three years ago? It was blindingly obvious from the start... This cave-in has left a significant number of campaigners pretty miffed. A lot of people have done a lot of work unpaid."In response, BT says the decision will allow it to "deliver broadband to far more people in a shorter timeframe". It also says those exchanges that have already triggered - or are within 10% of the target - will have   dates set as soon as possible. The company also plans to announce the phasing of the rollout for the remaining trigger exchanges by the end of next month."What the local campaigners have done has been extraordinary. They've brought back community spirit," says Young. "Local exchanges cannot simply be switched on. The difficulty is that &#91;many exchanges&#93; don't have any cabling. So we have to lay new fibre and copper cables. We have to dig up roads and put in new ducting. With some, we have to go underneath the riverbed, with others we've had to go across private land. In one instance, we had to cut across the M57, which requires planning permission."One of the areas most keenly affected is the small town of Dunoon, on the west coast of Scotland. It   reached its trigger level several months ago, but local businesses and residents were recently disappointed to hear they might have to wait until September 2005 for the service."BT is a large monopoly and that means they have to accept they have certain responsibilities that come with that privilege," says Alan Reid, Liberal Democrat MP for Argyll and Bute - the constituency in which Dunoon sits.Reid points out that, as with many rural areas, there is no cable company in Argyll, so the only other way to receive broadband is through expensive radio or satellite connections. "Nobody is willing to put money into their own investment because of BT's monopoly, as it could come in at any moment and undercut them," he says.
BS:Tell us about your business.TB:We supply gardening products for sales promotions - the bulk of our business is  promotional newspaper offers, so we're in some of the nationals and a huge number of regional newspapers. Normally there's a free item, and the reader has the opportunity to buy some  plants and gardening products on the back. We have 14 members of staff here &#91;just outside Hastings&#93; and a turnover of 850,000 a year.BS:And what was the business problem you wanted to solve?TB:We wanted to improve the efficiency of these promotions, we wanted to improve the quality of the goods going out - the image represented by the goods going out - and we  wanted to look at some method of customer retention. None of the processes we had before allowed us to tackle any of those main areas.We had a manual process: we received these coupons that had been cut out in local newspapers, and we used to cut off the address coupon the consumer was sending in as an address label. We would then have to handwrite or rubber stamp lots of bits and pieces on to a piece of packaging to show a bit of advice on the plant and what plants had been ordered. What the computer solution would hopefully give us was an all-in-one solution, with which we could data-capture the customer's information. We could then produce one label that would become a picking and packing list showing the address, the postage mark and any advice about the plants.BS:How did you go about finding that?TB:I was already a user of the Goldmine software from Frontrange Solutions. I've  used that, but only as a name and address book, for about four years. I was aware it had so many other features that I could use if I only knew how. So from there it was through  networking with a local graphic designer who'd just met somebody who was a Goldmine consultant, and they were right on our doorstep about three miles away. I was introduced to Solica Consulting, which very quickly said it could provide a solution and went away and built a model in no time at all - in about a week.BS:How long did the whole process take from start to finish?TB:It was installed and running, completely bespoke, within eight weeks.BS:If you already had the software, what did Solica actually do?TB:It introduced a little piece of add-on software which it had designed itself called  Details Plus. It allows an almost infinite amount of search and filtering facilities and additional details from which you can sort a database. It makes the normal database so much more powerful, because you can search the minutest detail rather than just a name, address and  phone number. The system I had was a one-user piece of software on my laptop; what the consultants have done is to introduce the corporate software across the network so that all five users now have access to it in the office.BS:What benefits have you noticed so far?TB:It's solved all the problems we had at that time. The efficiency part of it is still in  the early stages - never having used this kind of technology before, we've had to train people even to use the computer. The big thing for us is what it will allow us to do in the future. Previously if we'd stuck an address label on an envelope we'd lost all record of that customer when it got posted out. Now we can see who the customer is, we've got a complete order history and order tracking, so the benefits we will gain from now on are the really exciting part.BS:What will you be able to do with that data that you couldn't do before?TB:The first thing is the order tracking. Occasionally we'll get a consumer phone up about the whereabouts of their package, so we can now give them an intelligent answer - when it was packed, when it was dispatched. In future we'll be able to do nice specific targeted marketing, get involved with direct mail and establish a more traditional mail order business, whereas at the moment we'll only get an order once the promotion has appeared in a newspaper. Capturing customer data means we can make more offers to those consumers during the course of the year.BS:How much did it cost?TB:Just a bout 16,000, but we invested heavily in new hardware as well. We bought a SQL-based file server, which was nearly 7,000 and added an extra PC to the network.BS:How long is this system likely to take to pay for itself?TB:It will pay for itself in two years. The return on the investment will come sooner  than that, because the database at the moment of these consumers is building on a daily basis. We've done a couple of tiny test mailings just to see what happens. When the database is large enough, maybe 12,000-15,000, we'll do a proper direct mail piece. That's when the additional sales will make up the return on investment. If we stood still it would take two years to pay for itself - the additional sales will allow it to work much quicker.
Yahoo is beta testing Anti-Spy for the Yahoo Toolbar, which "allows users to identify potentially unwanted software that creeps into personal computers," reportsReuters. Yahoo's technology is based on a commercial program,Pest Patrol, rather than the popular Spybot Search &amp; Destroy and Ad-aware programs. Presumably the toolbar version of Pest Patrol will offer Windows users the chance to upgrade to the full package, but as long as it offers to remove any parasites it finds, that seems a fair trade to me.
"Microsoft is looking beyond Internet searches, heading into its battle with Google with technology designed to allow people to scour their e-mails, personal computers and even hefty databases for information," reportsAP."The search system will give consumers 'an end-to-end system for searching across any data type,' Yusuf Mehdi, head of Microsoft's MSN division, told analysts at a Goldman Sachs Internet conference Wednesday in Las Vegas. His remarks were broadcast online."Comment: Nothing much new here, and Microsoft has had hard drive searching technology for a decade (using Find Fast, and then the Indexing Service, two resource hogs that lots of us turn off). The interesting bit comes when Mehdi saysMSN is also "working on a system that will track a user's movements over the Internet and use that data to build a more personalized Web page based on the person's surfing habits."As AP's reporter Allison Linn notes: "Mehdi conceded that such efforts create thorny privacy issues." Yep, you can bet this one will, Yusuf!
How big do you need to be before you think about making voice calls over the internet? Even small companies can benefit, according to entrepreneur Nick Ogden, who launched On Instant, a Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) service this week.Ogden, founder of internet payments system WorldPay and online mall BarclaySquare, has funded the business himself because he believes in the technology. And because he can afford to - WorldPay was sold to the Royal Bank of Scotland in 2002 for &#163;40m. VoIP enables voice calls to be turned into packets of data that can be sent over the internet without tying up a phone line. But it is not just about cutting call costs. If voice is transmitted at the same time as data, new applications become possible.One convert to VoIP is Terry Coutanche, founder of Coutanche Solutions. He has been using On Instant for the past two months to manage nearly two dozen IT staff in America, Australia and Ukraine."Calls to staff are now free," says Coutanche. Previously, most of the contact was by email, but often a phone conversation is more useful. You can get an answer straightaway and you can even record calls. Or you can send voicemails to each other,   which some people find faster to compose than email."On Instant, which is aimed at small businesses, costs from &#163;4 to &#163;15 per person per month. The service includes internet-based contact management software, map-based business directory and press release distribution software, with VoIP as the glue that sticks it all together.The contact manager enables a hurried business person to make a note of any follow-up action they have promised a customer. They will get a reminder when they switch on their PC that day.To use On Instant, businesses need to download the software and plug a PC headset with integrated microphone into their PC or laptop computer, or buy an IP phone. They can then call anyone registered with the service for "free" - or no extra cost. To use the software, they will also need fairly new PCs running Windows 2000 or XP and a broadband internet connection, such as ADSL (asymmetric digital subscriber line) or cable.At present, most VoIP services are aimed mainly at the residential market, but this is starting to change. Dave Axam, general manager for access products at BT Retail, which has an evenings and weekends voice over broadband service for residen tial customers, is hoping to introduce a business VoIP service that would enable customers to call others on the same network, free, but also call numbers on the ordinary telephone network at low cost.And it won't be long before US VoIP services like those offered by Vonage in the US are launched here.However, sending voice calls over the internet is not without risks, as the net is not 100% reliable. Many businesses are therefore putting VoIP on their in-house data networks - which enables staff to talk to one other - but still making external calls using trunk lines connected to their data network.One example is CommonTime, an IT company that develops software for mobile working. It uses technology from Mitel to route calls over its local area network. This is connected to a 5Mbps leased line to the internet. It enables CommonTime to treat its 28 staff - based in the UK, New York or Paris, or at home in Chicago or San Francisco - as if they were all connected to the same global switchboard. For example, if a sales enquiry comes in to the company's UK head office from a company based in San Francisco, it can transfer the call to a local home-based employee in San Francisco at no cost.Ollie Omotosho, vice president of   marketing at CommonTime, says: "We use fixed IP phones and wireless headsets so we can take calls anywhere in the office. We did some integration work that took a systems administrator a couple of days, which would have cost about &#163;1,600 or &#163;1,700 if we'd had to pay, and we have a Mitel box to switch calls."VoIP is still a bit daunting for the average non high-tech business. Robert Vangstad, vice president of marketing at Mobeon, a spin off from mobile equipment company Ericsson, which makes voicemail systems for VoIP, says: "A small office/home office customer wants to spend no more than two hours on a purchase, whereas a large company could spend two months."This makes VoIP challenging for the smallest businesses."But Simon Gwatkin, an Englishman based in Mitel's Ottawa office in Canada, reckons that any business with at least eight employees should consider it. "The cost of putting VoIP on the company network comes in at under $10,000 &#91;&#163;6,000&#93;: $6,000 for the box containing call-switching software &#91;the cutting-edge equivalent to a conventional switchboard&#93; and our IP phones costing between $100 and $650, with the $350 one proving most popular."For a large company," adds   Gwatkin, "the cost is about $700-$1,000 per person." The good news is that companies, both small and large, can expect a return on investment from using VoIP.Mitel customer JCB, which makes mechanical diggers, estimates it will get a 50% annual reduction in telecoms costs (it has saved $20,000 so far) from equipping its 24-hour US call centre in Savannah, Georgia, with VoIP. It expects to avoid spending $120,000 due to improved workflow, and save nearly $180,000 in employee productivity gains and $25,000 in system maintenance costs.UK retailer House of Fraser reckons it will save &#163;30,000 in cabling and call costs per store throughout its 50 stores by transmitting in-house voice calls over its wide area network, instead of having separate voice and data networks. It will use technology including fixed IP handsets from Mitel, and wireless IP phones from Symbol of the US.That's the picture today, but Ogden is already excited about tomorrow. He predicts that the sort of services people are starting to use on VoIP - such as being able to email a letter with a telephone icon people can click on to call you - will be used on mobile phones and personal digital assistants.
Steven E. Landsburg goes in with both feet inSlate:"If we execute murderers, why don't we execute the people who write computer worms? It would probably be a better investment."Given Slate is owned by Microsoft, perhaps we can expect that functionality to be built into the Longhorn firewall?[viaBen Hammersley]
We'd welcome your feedback on the new site. Feel free to append your thoughts and questions to this post.
Knowledge management is a buzzword that most local authorities are familiar with but many are grappling to understand what it means in practice.In August, the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister launched a &#163;2.5m knowledge management project to encourage more joined-up working between councils and other public sector agencies. The thinking was that if councils could organise information more intelligently, the quality of their services would improve.The leaders of the project say they are preparing to publish a range of toolkits and processes that will help local authorities create, share and distribute information and data more efficiently. "Knowledge management is important to local authorities but they want help because they don't understand what it is about," says Lee Grafton, programme manager of the national project."The whole point of the project is to get a simple local authority explanation going. People think of knowledge management as data management, or as information management. Knowledge management is about insights. It's about using information and data to gain insights to   improve services and efficiency."The project is preparing to publish a road map that will provide guidance to organisations embarking on knowledge management activity. The idea is that authorities will be able to assess their position and develop a strategy based on best practice."I would not be surprised if the audit commission starts to assess local authorities in terms of how good is the information they are using to understand the communities they serve," says Niki Lewis, chair of the project.She believes that a better understanding and application of knowl edge management techniques will enable authorities to profile communities, such as rural areas, better and allocate resources more effectively. "It has been difficult to get the right information in the right place and get ways to map it and compare it. You can bring data and information together and create knowledge."The national project wraps up in August, when it will have released all the templates that need to be embraced if they are to have an impact upon local authority life. To improve take-up, the project's leaders are developing processes that will demonstrate how councils can use   data and information sources to register a high level of achievement within the comprehensive performance assessment process.However, for knowledge management to be successful, there has to be a major cultural shift. People don't always want to share information, as they see it as giving up power. Building trust so that agencies will happily swap data sets is not going to happen overnight.One of the work streams of the project is developing generic templated content to support one-stop shops. "We're trying to build up the best way of handling interac tions with the public," explains Tom Skelcher, a consultant. "We are giving people step-by-step information on how to answer questions around particular services."However, critics are not convinced it is practical enough. "It's quite an idealistic approach. The toolkits and road maps are interesting and useful but sometimes lack the reality of having to make real changes in a short period of time," says Chris Stirling, a manager of Impower, a public sector consultancy. "There is information everywhere and it's very hard for individual members of staff to turn that into useful knowledge to help them answer customer questions."Suppliers of knowledge management systems are generally positive about the work of the national project. "It generally improves the understanding of the subject matter and its relevance to what people do," says Jeremy Cox, director of business consulting for Parity. But he adds that the quality of knowledge management systems in local authorities is mixed.The project has a battle to convince councils its work is a priority in the face of so many other e-government initiatives. Intelligent knowledge management systems could dramatically improve service delivery but not all councils want to listen or follow the advice being given."Local authorities have their own needs. They will look at the outputs and decide what works for them," says Skelcher. "The measure of the achievement of the project is the take-up. We are producing a number of products that we believe will help and we are working with local authorities to evaluate them."Linkswww.knowledgemanagement.org.ukwww.parity.netwww.impower.co.uk
The dotcom bubble wasted billions of pounds of shareholders' money, but four new-economy companies who survived the great crash unscathed now own the fastest growing brands in Britain, according to a survey published yesterday.Online auctioneer eBay came out on top in a poll of the fastest growing brands in Britain in terms of popularity. In a clean sweep of the top four places by technology and internet companies, internet search engine Google came second, followed by mobile phone maker Nokia and online retailer Amazon.Ben Langdon, chairman of advertising firm Euro RSCG UK, which carried out the Brand Momentum survey, said the likes of eBay and Nokia had succeeded because they had become indispensable to consumers, instead of lavishing millions of pounds on expensive advertising campaigns."They have behaved not only as new-economy brands but also like old-economy brands at the same time," he said. "They have done the classic thing of becoming part of people's lives. If you look at eBay, Google, Nokia and Amazon, they have become useful to people in their daily lives and have the benefit of a delivery mechanism that is modern and efficient."Mr Langdon added that eBay, Google and Amazon were able to become big brands without large advertising budgets by becoming an integral part of the internet, which has immediate access to an audience of millions in Britain."It has always been very difficult to sell a brand that's not a very good product. The top brands in this survey have a product and service advantage. Those are the building blocks that companies have been using for the past 50 years," he said.Sony's PlayStation, another new-media brand, came in at number six while easyJet, the cut-price airline that relies on the internet as its main retail outlet, was number eight. The rest of the top ten was filled by more established brands, with Tesco the highest.An old-economy stalwart won the wooden spoon in a poll that asked 2,100 British adults their opinion on 564 brands. The Royal Mail, besieged by accusations of poor service and the victim of a failed rebranding exercise, was the brand losing favour with consumers at the fastest rate.Greatest momentum1 eBay2 Google3 Nokia4 Amazon5 Tesco6 PlayStation7 Pringles8 easyJet9 Asda10 Mini CooperLeast momentum1 Royal Mail2 Sega3 Nintendo4 BT5 American Airlines6 Radio 17 BA8 M&amp;S9 Avon10 Boeing&#183;Source: Euro RSCG Worldwide, Brand momentum survey
What is the world's silliest email? Spams and viruses offer a lot of competition, but if we stick to serious stuff, I don't think anything beats the one you get from your typical IT manager. It says something like: "You are nearing the limit of your storage quota, and unless you free up some space, you will not be allowed to send or receive any more email."The average quota in the UK now seems to be about 250 megabytes, which costs about 20-25 pence. Of course, the total cost of providing storage and back-up is much larger than the raw cost of 250MB drives. But even if it is 10 times as much, it still doesn't make sense to have executives spend hours deleting email at a cost to the company of &#163;20-25 an hour.One hour a week spent deleting email is one week's wages per year.Unfortunately, the waste of money is the least of the problem. First, many deals are done via email today and, according to Gartner researchers, about 60% of business critical data is now held in email. Desperate delete-fests can see a lot of important corporate information despatched to the bit bucket in the sky.Second, users may well be deleting information that companies are or will be legally required to keep. Some industries already see Basel II and Sarbanes-Oxley on the horizon. Everyone else should think about how they will meet subject access requests, or fight libel, stalking or sexual harassment cases, with no access to the emails concerned.And there's worse to come.   Andrew Barnes, marketing director for KVS Inc, knows how users respond when under quota pressure: they move important stuff to their local hard drives, their notebook PCs or other off-line storage. "Now you're in trouble," he says. "You have an incomplete record, and it's much harder to find the stuff that's missing."Barnes says: "You don't manage the size of a mailbox by quotas, you manage it by archiving - by moving it to cheaper storage devices."Barnes sells Enterprise Vault, an archival storage system for corporations using Microsoft Exchange email, so he would say that, wouldn't he. But he has a point.There is also a curious discontinuity between corporate and personal practice. When I was   listening to Barnes last week at an IronPort seminar in London, Rick Rashid, head of Microsoft Research, was in New York telling the W3C conference that: "There is very little reason for anyone to throw anything away."If everybody can have a terabyte of storage for $1,000 or less, he says, they can keep every conversation they have ever had, and all the photos they take every day with their camera phones. Terabytes of storage will soon be common.Of course, the obvious solution for harassed executives is to get their gigabyte of email storage from Lycos (&#163;3.49 a month), Spymac (free) or Google's Gmail, and free terabytes cannot be far behind. And with Google, you will not only be able to store all your email, you'll be able to find it afterwards.Email Storage &amp; Management Best Practices: A Regulatory &amp; Business Requirement, a white paper by Paul Mayer &#91;PDF&#93;www.spymac.comwww.lycos.co.ukhttp://gmail.google.com
Defensive movesI am having problems running Zone Alarm (free version) and Norton System Works 2004. What might be a better combination of virus checker/firewall?Margaret WhiteJack Schofield replies:Symantec is targeting the suite market, and the general assumption is that you would use Symantec's Norton Personal Firewall along with its anti-virus product. You didn't want to do this because you were "seriously attacked by hackers despite using the Norton firewall in NAV2002". Symantec's helpline emailed you a link to Document ID: 2003082012355706, which explains how to use the most popular alternative firewalls. (You cannot read this without logging on to the Symantec help site, but copy the ID into Google and you can read its cached version.) However, you decided to return the package to Symantec in Ireland and apply for a refund by filling in the form atwww.symantecstore.com/refund.As alternatives to Symantec, I generally suggestAVG Anti-Virusand theSygate Personal Firewallboth are free for personal use.The Kerio Personal FirewallandZone Alarmare good alternatives for users who think Sygate is, as one reader complained, "too geeky".If you prefer the suite approach, Computer Associates offers EZ Armour, which includes EZ Deskshield, EZ Antivirus and EZ Firewall. You can get trial versions fromwww.my-etrust.com/downloads.cfm, and EZ Antivirus looks worth a try as a standalone product. If you can wait a few months, Microsoft has included a proper firewall in the free Service Pack 2 for Windows XP. Bear in mind that if you have a broadband connection, it is important to have some sort of firewall installed all the time.MP3 huntI am looking for an MP3 player with at least a 20GB hard drive, FM radio, and the ability to store pictures directly from my digital camera or its SD card, since I never have enough SD cards when on holiday.David RobertsJS:There is at least one solid state (chip-based) MP3 player with FM radio and an SD (Secure Digital) memory card slot, the MPIO FL-100. There are also disk-based MP3 players with built-in FM radio, such as the iRiver iHP-120 and 140, and the Xclef HD-800. However, I can only find one MP3 player that has both a hard drive and an SD card slot - the Mambo X P353 Photobank Jukebox, which comes in 20MB and 40MB versions - and that doesn't have either an FM radio or a kitchen sink. An alternative suggested by the nice people atAdvanced MP3 Playersis the &#163;49 Sync Box. The website says: "You can transfer photos or any other data from your digital camera to Flash drives or any MP3 player that appears as a Removable Disk Drive with the touch of a button and never have to worry about your digital camera running out of memory!" With aSync Boxyou should be able to buy almost any MP3 player you want.Sound linkFollowing the recent discussion of getting hi-fi sound out of a computer, is there any way of getting digital input into a computer? I am wondering if there is a device to connect the optical digital output from, say, a DAB radio to either a   USB socket or a PCMCIA slot. As I have a laptop, it might be difficult to change the sound card.Tim GosslingJS:The obvious answer is to use an S/P-DIF link - for Sony/Philips Digital Interconnect Format - so the simplest approach would probably be to use a sound card with "optical SPDIF in/out". Searching Google suggests the Sound Blaster Audigy 2 Platinum External is a suitable example for a laptop. I have not done this myself.Slow PCMy computer - a Sony Vaio running Windows XP Home - is often very slow. When I check the processor using Control-Alt-Delete, with no programs open, it is at 100% activity with cisvc.exe at 40% and Navapsvc.exe at 22%. I have run Ad-aware v6 but this has not solved it.Nick BarberJS:You have found two common "resource hogs". Navapsvc is Norton Anti-Virus, and Cisvc is the Microsoft Index Service Helper - the dreaded Find Fast reborn. Its job is to monitor the Microsoft Indexing Service (cidaemon.exe). It should be set to Manual by default, but you can disable it. Go to Start, select Run, type in Services.msc and click OK. Find Indexing Service in the list of services, right-click it, select Properties, then use the drop-down box to select Disabled. Black Viper has a useful page on all this stuff atwww.blackviper.com/WinXP/service411.htm.Backchat&#183;Re diallers that drop the line to your ISP and dial a premium rate number, often overseas, Mike Cooper says: "I was caught recently and BT was helpful. They have arranged for 0909 and international calls to be blocked at the exchange."
Van HelsingXbox, &#163;39.99 VU Games/Saffire&#42;&#42;&#42;With the release of a schlock horror-action film such as Van Helsing, it was inevitable a game of the same name would follow. But unlike so many film licence games, this isn't too embarrassing. Although not overly taxing, it is a fairly entertaining way to spend a few hours.You play the title role of the hat-wearing, coat-swirling monster hunter as he battles through the same baddies as in the movie. While this would have been an opportunity to slip in film footage, all the in-between action is taken up with cut scenes. Although tiresome, they do have decent voice acting.Helsing's arsenal comprises guns, crossbows, swords and lethal handheld spinning blades. These can be imbued with magical energies and each weapon is tuned towards certain baddies. Once you get your hands on the more powerful items, you can pretty much rip through anything - including the bosses.The graphics engine gives it a decent look, along with satisfying sound effects and nice touches such as Helsing getting his hat knocked off during fights. However, as far as gameplay goes, it ain't rocket science.Rhianna PratchettRalliSport Challenge 2Xbox, &#163;39.99 XSN Sports/Microsoft,&#42;&#42;&#42;The reason why some rivals hate Microsoft so vehemently is illus trated perfectly by its games division. Microsoft Games Studios scopes the landscape for promising innovations, throws money at replicating them or buying the developer and emerges 12 months later with a better, faster version you'd be crazy to miss. So after flight sims, real-time strategies, role-playing games, arcade racers and first person shooters, it's the turn of rally games, currently ruled by Colin McRae and Toca.Visually, Rallisport knocks seven bells out of just about anything, with amazing weather effects, five driving modes and nearly 100 of the biggest, boldest tracks you've seen. Everything from dirt tracks to Nordic ice-rinks are represented and they behave like rally circuits, so if you want to cut across that swath of outback, you can - just like in the real Australian rally - or is it?Unfortunately, the developers combined the best racing engine with the most unrealistic racing model. Each of the 40-plus licensed cars corners like it is on rails, takes only cosmetic damage and can flip itself upright by revving the engine. Who cares if it claims to be a Renault Megane if it handles like a dune buggy? You can even win a race after tumbling off the side of a mountain.So just when you thought Microsoft was turning into the Terminator, it displays a charming ability to shoot itself in the foot. Bless!Mike AnderieszCSI: Dark MotivesPC, &#163;29.99 Ubi Soft&#42;&#42;&#42;The TV series on which this game is based - following the fortunes of two forensic police teams in Las Vegas and Miami - is popular in the US and increasingly so here, thanks to glossy production, and a good-looking cast armed with technology that is scary in its ability to extract convictions from microscopic evidence.CSI: Dark Motives is a largely successful attempt to give PC owners a chance to star in their version of CSI: Las Vegas. It is a point-and-click adventure, with 21st-century knobs.You are cast as an aspiring CSI operative. With the assistance of realistic versions of the cast, and access to their technology, you must collect evidence, interview suspects and piece together what happened in a number of cases. As you would expect, video clips advance the plot.The result is true to the TV series, except that you derive pleasure from picking the correct tools, and uncovering crucial fingerprints and blood spatters. Because of its point-and-click nature, hardcore gamers will view it with contempt, but fans of the TV programme will love it. It will not change the face of gaming, but is well constructed and engrossing.Steve Boxer
How did your collaboration with O2's music download service come about?They approached me as I had gone public with my view that I thoughtO2would play a big part in downloadable music. A mobile is the one thing you have with you at all times. The net is a great "listening post" that pulls in more people to listen to music. I don't think it's killing music... that's nonsense.What's your take on the ring tone phenomenon?It's fantastic even though I'm not into them. Maybe it's an age thing but I want a phone that just makes an audible ring. I was astonished to learn that ring tones outsell CD   singles in the UK by about three to one.Were you an early adopter?I was aware of it all early but was, and remain, a technophobe. A close friend is an internet genius so he guided me through everything. He looks after my website and keeps it updated. It's essential for DJs or musicians to have a homepage: why go into the marketplace with one hand tied behind your back?What impact is technology having on the club scene?I wouldn't say it's revolutionised the club scene because the generation that now go clubbing is  au fait with technology. They're the Pac-Man generation, so have been brought up with technology. If you are not intimidated by it , which I learned not to be, then it co-exists happily in your life. The powers-that-be in the technology industry tried to frighten people into thinking that you will somehow be left   behind if you don't get on board now - but you don't always need it.Mac or PC?I have a PC but my son uses a Mac. It makes no difference so long as you can get what you want. I just use it for the usual stuff such as checking my email daily. I use Google almost like a dictionary. I'm a net philistine in that I have never bought anything over the internet.Do you use software for your DJ sets?I have no need to use anything likeFinal Scratchbut if I felt in the future that I needed to, I would. There aren't many DJs using software in the clubs, as the whole vinyl versus disc debate is still raging and vinyl is still proving to be the most dependable format.So there's room for CD and vinyl in the iPod generation?Yes because,   providing you don't panic, you will find equilibrium with technology. When the eight-track cartridge came out they said it would replace vinyl yet, 40 years on it's the eight-track that's obsolete. The iPod will be no different.Gadgets?I like my tiny digital cameras - I have aCanon Powershot, aSony Cyber-Shotand a little spy camera I bought in Japan. I still have a film camera, though. It's all about convenience.Visit:www.normanjay.comandwww.o2.co.uk/music&#183;Norman Jay appears at Queer Nation's events: May 30 at Sound, London; July 17 at Zap, Brighton; August 21 at Sun Station, London.
New technologies are seductive. It's easy to convince yourself that the potential of a new gadget and the      likely outcome of using it are the same thing.ID cards are a good example. The potential of biometric ID looks promising. We should be able to suppress      overnight naughtiness and confusion. The actual outcome, though, will be different and will inevitably fall      short of the technology's dreamed-of potential. A psychoanalyst might call this a fantasy of control.In this      fantasy, we imagine that a sticking plaster of digital technology will somehow cancel out the whole messy      human context of crime and deception.ID cards cannot and will not eliminate identity theft, fraudulent benefit claims and terrorism because they      are social problems, and technology is notoriously bad at solving social problems. Computer technology is      good at solving narrowly defined, one- or two-dimensional problems: automating business processes,      cataloguing information, connecting people and resources.Technologies applied to complicated, social problems - flows of migrant workers, for instance - almost always      fail. We have many examples of huge technology projects cancelled at vast cost once it's realised that no one      can reconcile the intransigent, messy human beings who are going to use the finished project with the      simple-minded flow chart that produced it.Could we escape this predictable trap set for us by new technology? Could we invest the billions required to      get ID cards from consultation to launch in the underlying problems instead of in the superficial symptoms?      Instead of pouring epic quantities of money into a card that provides irrefutable identification, why don't we      spend the money inside communities and schools to produce the kind of increase in trust and social cohesion      that will directly reduce the risks against which ID cards are supposed to protect us?Even a small increase in the sum of mutual trust within and between communities would throw the marginal      benefits of clumsy, technology-heavy ID cards into sharp relief.       One of my biggest fears about the adoption of ID cards is that they will produce such a huge false sense of      security that the national trauma produced by the first major breach of security - the first huge assault on      our borders or our illusion of civic calm - will be unbearable. It may take five, 10 or 15 years, but our      September 11, when it happens, will cause more damage when we learn that our attackers were all carrying      up-to-date biometric ID (just as the 9/11 hijackers were all carrying valid passports).I'd like to see Britain invest all the planned ID card budget in simpler, cheaper and more effective measures      to increase trust, interdependence and transparency within our communities and institutions. The end result,      though doubtless small, will surely be more useful than devoting the next 20 years of our national life to      getting flawed ID cards working and preventing the bad guys from stealing the keys.
Most householders know the syndrome. You get up intending to give the front door a lick of paint. Then the door needs to come off its hinges. You notice the frame's out of kilter. Before you know it, you're rebuilding the whole house.Britain's e-government programme is in roughly this position. Five years ago, creating electronic channels seemed a painless way of giving public services a facelift. So long as e-services could stand alone, this was true. One reason the NHS Direct project was such a success was that the government let it go its own way, without worrying too much about connecting to other agencies.Trouble is, government is not a green field site; more a Georgian   terrace damaged by bombs in the 1940s, damp in the 1950s and by loft conversions and extensions from the 1960s onwards.If e-government is worth doing, it has to take in the whole structure, including jerry-built processes and information systems. Getting to grips with these legacies is not for the faint-hearted. Even a simple address database can contain multiple horrors. The government has only just got around to trying to enforce a standard address format (BS 7666, if you're interested) on electoral registers. It will be a long time before it filters through to more complex systems.In its quest to create electronic health records, the NHS National Programme for IT is shining a torch into some unpleasant crannies. It has ruled that the only way to protect the new "spine" is to   accept data from legacy systems only when a senior doctor takes personal responsibility for its quality. The unspoken hope is that not too many will bother.Another unpleasant discovery is that government often depends on fuzzy unwritten codes of cooperation between professions and agencies, or the fudging of difficult questions.When you try to wire up these routines, the structure often can't take the strain. (Or the scrutiny: obscure questions of bureaucracy suddenly start getting attention on internet bulletin boards and columns like this one.)Then there are the anomalies and exceptions: people who have only one name, or ambiguous genders. Private firms can take a commercial decision not to bother with the last few per cent of   heartsink transactions. Government has to cater for them, even if it means almost all the code in a system has to be written for a tiny number of exceptional cases.A hallmark of Britain's e-government programme is its willingness to poke into the timber and damp-course, and not merely to slap on a coat of paint. The soon-to-be-appointed head of e-government is supposed to be responsible for "defining the architecture, requirements and standards for common government infrastructure and services". A big job; and fixing the foundations can be expensive and controversial, as we have seen with the ID card.We've started the e-government job, so we may as well finish. But there must be a few people in Whitehall who wish they'd stayed in bed instead.
Is the low-end personal digital assistant to be superseded by the smartphone? PalmOne doesn't think so and its recently launched Zire 72, for &#163;219, makes a spirited case for the budget handheld. A revamp of its popular Zire 71, the 72 is light (136g), thin and sports a good quality 320x320 pixels transflective TFT display. PalmOne has improved the specs with a better processor (312MHz Intel ARM) and twice as much memory (32MB) as its predecessor.The big breakthrough is that owners can use the PDA to surf the net wirelessly: it is the first budget PDA to feature Bluetooth. It also includes a voice recorder, RealOne music player and an excellent 1.3 megapixel camera. All you miss from the 72's much pricier sibling, the Tungsten T3, is the latter's expandable screen. Whether it is worth an extra &#163;70 for that upgrade is a moot point. If you want an inexpensive, but good quality, PDA to team up with your Bluetooth mobile - the 72 is well worth considering.www.palmone.com/uk
Divorced!Not many eBay adverts get 17m page views, reduce visitors to tears of laughter, attract proposals of marriage, or get their writers interviewed on TV. All of this happened to Larry Star, whose hilarious listing was for "One slightly used size 12 wedding gown". Star - a bearded and tattooed software test designer from Seattle, Washington - modelled the gown himself. He still has it, too, because the winning bid turned out to be a student prank.http://cgi.ebay.comwww.weddingdressguy.comIngenious!Three of Britain's best museums are combining to launch a website about science and culture. The bulk of the content is a bit schoolbookish, but the site is worth a visit for the 30,000 images drawn from the collections of the Science Museum, National Railway Museum and National Museum of Film, Photography &amp; Television. Visitors can also debate topics such as: Should science be censored? and later will be able to save pictures to a "lightbox" and create their own galleries. The site will be launched on June 9.www.ingenious.org.ukFantastic!"The built landscape which we inhabit is the residue of a much larger world which was never constructed - of visions of the future which remained on paper due to lack of funds, political change or because technically they were ahead of their time," says the Hayward Gallery. With the Royal Institute of British Architects, it has put together a travelling exhibition devoted to Fantasy Architecture from 1500 to 2036. It's showing at the Northern Gallery for Contemporary Art in Sunderland   until July 3, and the NGCA site has some super pictures. Next stop is The Lowry, Salford.www.hayward.org.uk/exhibitions/nte/fantasy.htmwww.ngca.co.uk/exhibitionsLwww.guardian.co.uk/arts/featuresWeird!Like other universities such as Stanford and Cambridge, MIT now has a William H Gates computer science building. But this one was designed by Frank O Gehry and is seriously weird.http://web.mit.edu/buildings/statacenterwww-cs.stanford.eduwww.cl.cam.ac.uk/UoCCL/introMusic feedMusic may be the food of love, but it can also help feed the hungry, if you download your tunes from Oxfam. Yesterday, the charity joined with Peter Gabriel's OD2 (On Demand Distribution) - the music download service offered by Microsoft MSN and 20 other sites - to launch Big Noise Music. Prices start at 1p to listen to a streamed track, and 75p for a download, with 10p from each song purchase going to Oxfam. Like Napster and most other music services, OD2 uses Microsoft's WMA audio format for protected songs.www.bignoisemusic.comHello fatherHalf a dozen sporting heroes have sponsored T-shirts that might make suitable Father's Day presents. If they look a bit pricey at &#163;20 each, that's because at least &#163;10 goes to the Great Ormond Street Hospital Children's Charity, a very good cause.www.moreTvicar.comMissing in ActonAmerican web publisher MyVillage.com has continued its UK expansion by adding Newcastle, Plymouth and Livingstone to its collection. The site now claims it covers our 10 largest population areas. You can also choose from a wide selection of areas of London from Balham to Wood Green, via Portowebbo. (Around the Portobello Road.) Curiously, W3 has gone missing. Perhaps nothing interesting ever happens in Acton.http://myvillage.comFor groupiesGoogle Labs is now testing Google Groups 2, an improved version of its Usenet newsgroup database with personalisation features. You can, for example, bookmark discussions, and start your own groups and mailing lists in around 10 seconds. Google's idea of using Atom for syndication feeds (topics.xml and msgs.xml) will attract the RSS/Atom aggregator fans.http://groups-beta.google.comNew &amp; notedXviD 1.0 Finalwww.xvid.orgwww.roeder.goe.net/~koepi/xvid.shtmlUS resource to help find missing childrenwww.amberalert911.orgInternational Year of Rice 2004www.fao.org/rice2004Txt Britneywww.BritneyMobileLive.comSix of the bestDownload.comwww.download.comTucowswww.tucows.comSimtelwww.simtel.netJumbo!www.jumbo.comFree Downloads Centerwww.freedownloadscenter.comNonagswww.nonags.com
Access all areasYou highlighted that the Disability Rights Commission's website failed basic tests on accessibility for disabled people (What's New, May 20). Business2www sells automated software to companies wanting to check their sites' compliance with web accessibility guidelines. The DRC's year-long investigation into web access recommended that automated testing on its own could not guarantee that disabled people could use technically compliant sites.Is it merely coincidence, then, that Business2www chose to criticise the DRC for one error - corrected before the ink was dry on its press release - on a page built by a sponsor and not on our website?Improving websites so disabled people can use them is important, and the DRC's investigation provides organisations with the tools to make their sites accessible and usable for all. Naked self promotion, of course, has entirely different ends.Bert Massiechairman,Disability Rights CommissionAll in the gameWe were interested to read the special gaming issue of Online (May 20). Aleks Krotoski was right to point out that some EverQuest players spend 40 hours plus a week playing the game, but our research has shown that 91% of all players spend less than this.However, our research has also shown a small percentage of players spending up to 80 hours a week on the game and gives some idea why it has been labelled "EverCrack" by   some players. A number of articles in the issue also pointed out the industry's aim in increasing the age range of players and bringing in more females.Again, our research has shown that one in five players are female and that they enjoy the more social and cooperative elements of online gaming rather than the competitive elements. This is one of the reasons why EverQuest is so popular - it appeals to a wide range of players on many different levels.Professor Mark GriffithsDr Mark DaviesInternational Gaming Research Unit, Nottingham Trent UniversityFighting chanceSteve Boxer wrote (To have and to hold, May 20): "Unfortunately, Gizmondo fails to convince. The company claims to be working on a game that employs GPS, but its presence seems pointless. And despite its Windows CE compatibility, the games lack sophistication. Gizmondo is not the only obscure handheld gaming machine due to reach the UK soon."Shame on you guys! It's not like Gizmondo is a mega-company like Sony. Stop slamming them. Also, it is a UK company. A few ill words will destroy it, and that would be a shame because these guys deserve some respect and recognition for their hard work. Everybody already knows they are the underdog - no need to repeat it and be negative. Gizmondo puts together a great product and needs all the help it can get to win the support of developers.William MooreGet with itIf Walter Gladwin got with it and installed a modern browser, he'd feel pretty sheepish about his ill-informed defence of dusty old Internet Explorer(Feedback, May 20). True, in the days of its youthful vigour, Explorer was the best around. But your correspondent is going to have to wait years for Microsoft's next browser offering (it will come as part of the Longhorn OS)   and, until then, he's going to be stuck with software that can't deal with many of the technologies driving today's web. Does he wonder why an increasing number of images on well-made sites appear to have ugly white borders? It's because IE can't handle modern transparent graphics (PNG). And that should be the least of his worries - what about support for Dom (Document Object Model)? But Internet Explorer's most blatant senility has to be its continuing lack of proper support for Cascading Style Sheets, today's standard for laying out web pages.He should download a more modern browser such as Mozilla Firefox, which will work faster, make searching easier, block annoying popups, and give him more powerful tools like tabbed browsing. It's free, and he won't even have to "convert his bookmarks", as he advises a previous correspondent to do: modern browsers do these things automatically.There's an important lesson we should have learnt from the demise of Netscape: that people using outmoded software eventually get frustrated. Until then, why should those of us using 21st-century technology be forced to stumble over the Zimmer frames that webmasters leave lying around for Internet Explorer users?Tom HollandYorkIndependent stateWalter Gladwin has fallen for the Microsoft mantra of "embrace and extend" when he implies that websites and browsers are inferior and "dumbed down" if they try to comply with vendor-independent standards.He should reflect that the reason he has access to a global internet is precisely because it is founded upon standards designed to avoid being tied to a single dominant company. Some of us don't want to be "Borged" by Microsoft. Resistance is not futile!Dr David HarperCambridge
For the freelancer starting up work from home, office space is by far the easiest business cost to eradicate. In some cases, primarily the service industries, an operative can be working from home for long periods.Naturally enough, such home set-ups need financing. But there are other factors that affect the finances of a home worker - the mortgage, business rates and insurance, for example.A number of the people contacted for this article had no idea their mortgage could be affected by home working. And yet many mortgage companies will ask for an assurance that the borrower won't be running a business from the premises before they hand any cash over. The chances are very good that the mortgage company won't mind if someone is working by themselves, but it is useful to let it know, even if only to ensure there are no unpleasant surprises when it inevitably finds out by chance later.Insurers, too, want to know if a home is going to be used for anything other than domestic purposes. Jo Morecroft runs two businesses from her home: Pinbrook Designs, which is a web-hosting and design concern, andSurf-wax.co.uk, an e-commerce site based on the Actinic Catalog software system selling sports equipment. (Morecroft says she set the latter up to prove to prospective clients and herself that she could build a working e-commerce website.)Insurance has recently become simpler than it used to be, she comments. "In the last couple of years all the insurance companies have started offering home-working insurance," she says. Previously, she had to go to specialists and take a separate policy on her equipment, which comprises two PCs and a laptop. "You used to have to answer questions like how many people are going to come and visit you."Another aspect of home-working finances is tax. Peter Harrup, tax partner at business advice and accounting service PKF, says business rates are a thing to watch if your home becomes the location of your livelihood, although this will be up to the policy of your individual local authority. What is clearer is tax: "If someone is setting aside a room to work from, it mustn't be used exclusively for business," he advises. "When you sell your residence it is normally tax-free; if part of it is exclusively used for business, the Inland Revenue can look to tax that part as a capital gain."The way around this is to make it obvious that it is not exclusively a business room. "If the Revenue ever came round, which is unlikely, make it obvious the room is used for something else - perhaps put a bed in it." Fine, as long as a bed fits as well as a desk; if not, the CD or video collection will probably do - just as long as something in the room says 'domestic'. Harrup adds that the majority of people do indeed use the room for something else, so it is rarely an issue.Running costs are another consideration. Employers using home workers can pay their employees 2 a week tax-free for costs. "It's possible to claim for more than that, but you have to back it up with evidence," says Harrup. So keep invoices, receipts and so on. The self-employed will want to apportion costs; the standard advice here is always to talk to an accountant.How much to set yourself up?As the examples cited in our lead feature in this issue prove, there are no fixed rules about what you will need to spend on a home office setup. Some essentials for budgeting might include:&#183;Desk and chair: From many department stores; Ikea and other self-assembly sellers have reasonable workstations starting at 19 for an ugly metal thing (but it'll do the job); nicer furniture which will work in a domestic setting starts to cost more, with desks eventually running into hundreds. Chairs need to be adjustable for comfort; expect to pay from 18 and upwards.&#183;Mobile phone: Increasingly a substitute for a second phone line. For reliability of service consider opting for a contract rather than a top-up card. All the major phone companies have their own shops; Carphone Warehouse and The Link offer independent advice.&#183;Computer: Space considerations and portability lead many home workers towards the laptop market. Expect to pay upwards of 650 - and always consider reconditioned systems from reputable sources. Also look out for end-of-line stock and redundant orders - many shops in London's Tottenham Court Road, for example, take delivery of orders for corporate systems which have fallen through at the last minute.
With summer suddenly here, it is tempting to swap the office for the beach or that French holiday home. So what luck IT and communications technology finally let you do this without your customers being any the wiser.There is now a plethora of gismos and services that enable frustrated 9-5ers to unshackle themselves from their desks, without detriment to their productivity - from Blackberries and Wi-Fi hotspots to sophisticated virtual switchboard services and unified messaging capabilities. These enable remote workers to provide a deceptively professional-looking yet personal service wherever they happen to be, whether that's curled up on the sofa with a laptop or stretching their legs at a motorway service station.As well as having freedom to roam, remote workers can benefit from the low overheads associated with being able to keep their office time to a minimum, as sole trader Marc Houghton found when he set up Principle Matters, a home-based business investigating consumer complaints. His modest working environment negated the need for expensive office space, and the ability to extend his working life to the road, with complete continuity, means he never feels boxed in by his surroundings.Yet presenting a professional image to the world outside at all times is imperative. The key for Houghton has been maintaining a practically paperless office and managing the majority of his work and correspondence electronically. "My main tool is my laptop, which I have set up to take advantage of hotspots wherever I am," he explains. "Failing that, a telephone line will usually do."The hotspots Houghton refers to are broadband wireless connections that allow him to connect to the internet and send and access emails if within the range of a wireless access point. Mobile operators such as T-Mobile are establishing public hotspots in a wide variety of locations, from coffee shops such as Starbucks to petrol stations such as Texaco. If a company's internal network is IP-based, the potential also exists for remote workers to tap into their office resources using the same facilities, to access information from the company database, update customer records or consult a colleague's diary.Until 3G services are widely available, a standard mobile phone signal and public wireless hotspots are the roaming worker's best bet for achieving full electronic productivity while out and about, whether they do this using a laptop or a personal digital assistant (PDA).An increasingly popular gadget in this area is the BlackBerry, a device now used by many roaming workers to collect and send emails while away from the office. These allow users to receive their emails automatically, instead of having to dial in to retrieve them. Because the emphasis is on email rather than downloading large files off a network, BlackBerry devices work fine on GPRS networks, as well as within range of a Wi-Fi hotspot. This means users can receive and send emails on the street or train, as well as in designated locations.Katie Rowen, a director at 12-strong marketing agency 360 Communications, says adopting BlackBerrys has radically changed the working practices of the company's most senior staff. "It was getting ridiculous that we weren't more mobile and able to get our emails on the go," she says. Then a good deal with mobile operator O2 secured the software (normally worth 2,000) for free, and the company was hooked."We are now genuinely on call 24 hours a day, seven days a week, which is handy for clients based in Los Angeles or  working late," Rowen says. While this might be a double-edged sword for some, who may feel a slave to their jobs even on holiday, for many small businesses being contactable at all times and in any location can provide the freedom to take holiday without fear of letting clients down. "Our clients are happier now because we're more available," Rowen says.Another development which has added to this semblance of continuity beyond the office walls has been the growth in creative phone services, such as the virtual switchboard or PA.MessageBase Service is one of an increasing number of companies providing a customised telephone answering service. Subscribers can select a UK STD code (for example, a London number if they feel this gives them greater credibility) or a geographically non-specific number such as 0870 if the company wishes to appear to have nationwide coverage. Incoming calls are answered by a real person, using a tailored script and following specific instructions, whether to take a message, transfer the call or prepare an email, fax or postal response. A basic service for a new business costs from 25 a month.Versions of these services also now exist for mobile phone users. For example, Vodafone's Rapide service ensures customers never suffer the frustration of your mobile voicemail. The service includes the dictation and distribution of emails; sending voice messages to groups of people; accessing company contact details, and gathering business information from Dun &amp; Bradstreet.Unified messaging (treating voice messages, email and faxes interchangeably) is a further aid to the roaming worker. TopCall is one company providing technology that lets employees access email, faxes and voicemail through the medium of their choice - voice messages can be read on a PDA or faxes viewed online via a PC, for example.Virtual PA services can help with this too. Principle Matters' Houghton uses a fax service from PumaOne which enables faxes (sent to an 0870 number) to be forwarded to him as an email attachment. This costs 15 a year and includes notification by mobile text of important faxes.Houghton has no doubt such advances in communications services have enabled him to lead the working life he has chosen - one that gives him freedom to break free from the office, while providing a high quality of service to his clients. He is looking into GPRS access to his email, using a Vodafone PC card, which would enable global access. "My office can be wherever I am with my phone and my laptop," he says.Continuity in communication&#183;Fujitsu-Siemens believes exploiting mobile data communications should be as affordable and easy as mobile voice calls. Its Connect2Air package allows small businesses to pay for wireless-enabled notebooks as a monthly service charge, with a two-year contract including technical support. The package costs 149 up front, then around 109 a month for a tablet PC with wireless connectivity.&#183;Gossiptel is one of a growing number of internet telephony service providers offering advanced yet low-cost voice services, using a broadband rather than traditional PSTN line. This enables companies to have an 0870 number, which can be diverted to any location, including a mobile phone.&#183;If hiring a virtual PA company to take and divert messages seems too extravagant, voice recognition technology could provide a DIY solution. ContactPortal from Telephonetics is a virtual operator that answers, transfers and makes calls, all by spoken voice. The intelligent call-routing system routes calls to the desired location, making it easy to work from home, abroad or in someone else's office. An advanced messaging system allows staff to retrieve voicemail messages from phones anywhere, and enables emails to be read to remote users via a text-to-speech engine.&#183;Internet relay chat (IRC), instant messaging and web conferencing software enable live email chat and online meetings to take place over the internet, so that dispersed teams can work more effectively by being able to interact in real time, in groups. Trillian is a handy tool in this area, because it supports multiple chat forums, including mIRC, AIM, ICQ, MSN and Yahoo Messenger.
For many SMEs struggling on tight budgets, staff training is a luxury. Yes, you'd love to be able to do it, but you can't afford it, and in any case it's not essential.The trouble is, it probably is essential. The business world changes so fast that it is not enough now to recruit the right staff: you have to make sure their skills are kept up to date. The National Employer Skills Survey found earlier this year that a fifth of the 72,000 employers surveyed said the skills of their staff were not up to scratch. Many reported losing orders as a result of having underskilled staff. Unfortunately, the cost, not just of paying for training but also for covering staff absences, can be prohibitive. As Paul Scott, sales director at Penlaw Construction, puts it: "Most employers don't want to go anywhere near training. It's just one load of aggro."Essex-based Penlaw has been one beneficiary of the employer training pilots (ETPs) administered by the Learning and Skills Council (LSC), the government body responsible for vocational training for over-16s in England. Over the years Scott had found that trying to organise funding for staff training had involved "lots of red tape". The ETPs have been different - easy to access, flexible and employer-friendly.The ETPs were launched by the LSC last year. Realising many businesses can't afford the time to allow staff to spend days or even hours training off-site, the LSC has become much more adaptable about the training opportunities it offers.Aimed specifically at SMEs, the ETPs offer free training to employees, and even offer compensation to employers for the time staff take off work to train. Employers identify the skills gaps among their workforce and decide what training they would like employees to receive. The LSC introduces them to local training companies that can plug the gap."Key factors such as cost and time were preventing employers from getting their employees upskilled," says David Greer, the national project manager for ETPs. "There is a history of training in this country, where if you are qualified and skilled you get many more training opportunities than if you are not. The pilots offer employers a range of incentives to overcome those barriers, to upskill their employees."The ETPs offer basic numeracy and literacy training as well as opportunities to study for National Vocational Qualification (NVQ) levels 2 and 3. Initially, the LSC received 40m of funding from the government to run the pilots in six of the 47 areas that come under the LSC's remit: Tyne and Wear, Greater Manchester, Derbyshire, Birmingham and Solihull, Swindon and Wiltshire, and Essex. In the first year, 14,000 low-skilled employees received training. Since then, the pilots have been extended to Berkshire, Kent, East London, Leicestershire, Shropshire and South Yorkshire, Lancashire, Black Country, West Yorkshire, North East, Devon &amp; Cornwall and Cambridgeshire. They now cover 80,000 employees and funding was increased by 120m in the March budget.When Scott initially heard about the scheme on the radio, he contacted the LSC. The firm was already aware of skills gaps among its 22 employees, and decided to sit down with each of them and talk through their potential training requirements. As a result, two people have since received training in basic maths, two in basic English and a further five have studied for NVQ level 2 in customer service. Three have now enrolled for NVQ level 3."It's been really cool," says Scott. "The trainers come to the workplace; you don't have to lose any of your employees for any hours. Because we've got a rolling programme now, where we have 12 people who are regularly learning and being taught, the tutors can come in on a Friday and train pretty much through the day with different people."Penlaw's employees are also enthusiastic about the course. Steve Moore, who works in the sales team, studied for an NVQ level 2 in customer service. He was particularly impressed with the readiness of the tutors to adapt to his schedules: "There were bits of it where I had to allow the course side to slacken off for a week or two because of work getting busy, but the tutors are really flexible." Similarly, he says, when he managed to finish an assignment quickly, he could arrange for the tutor to come in early and assess it, and then he could move on to the next stage.Moore has found the course has given him more confidence in his job, and he is also pleased to have the formal qualification. He has now started on an NVQ level 3. As for Scott, he has no doubts at all: "With companies like ours that have been established a very long time but are expanding, the more information you allow people to have, the more authoritative they become in decisions that involve their job."The ETPs are not yet available throughout England, or in Scotland or Wales, so what are the other options if you are looking for low-cost training? If you hunt around, you can find a number of special offers targeted at small businesses.In London, for example, a series of free courses on internet skills, called e-Business Success, is available from the Greenwich Enterprise Board, in conjunction with Business Link for London. The courses range from half a day to three days in length, and cover skills such as website design, email marketing and selling over the web. The courses are run in south, north and west London and will continue until 500 businesses have taken up the training - probably in about September this year.Education and Learning Wales (ELWa), the Welsh equivalent of the Learning and Skills Council, has a scheme called Work-based Learning for adults. If you want to recruit someone but feel they haven't got the appropriate skills, you can employ them on a trial basis while they receive free training.Another option is to recruit someone aged between 16 and 24 under the Modern Apprenticeship scheme, which enables your employee to train for an NVQ level 2 or level 3 while working for you. Under the scheme, you pay the employee's salary, but their training, which is off-the-job, is paid for by the LSC if they are in England. (In Wales, the training is paid for by by ELWa, and in Scotland it is partly funded by Scottish Enterprise.)Learndirect offers hundreds of courses delivered online (atwww.learndirect.co.uk), including many targeted at     businesses. Employees can either attend a Learndirect centre (in England, Wales and Northern Ireland) or study online from home or work. There are courses on offer on management, recruitment, IT and marketing and finance, among others. Many are relatively cheap - about 30 or 40 - and sometimes special discounts are offered. Learndirect employs advisers at its business centres who can help you identify your training requirements.More ambitiously, Learndirect also runs a scheme called Learning Through Work (www.learndirect-ltw.co.uk), in conjunction with several universities, which allows employees to gain degrees while continuing in their jobs. As an employer, you can help design a degree programme tailored to the needs of your business.        There are other options you may not have thought of. These days, universities and further education colleges are much more attuned to the needs of business, and often offer distance-learning options or self-paced study. Middlesex University, for example, offers IT training, leading to an NVQ 4 qualification, to SME employees in some London boroughs. Ninety per cent of the training is paid for by a grant from the European Social Fund. Also investigate your local chamber of commerce - some chambers offer free or subsidised training courses for members.The most comprehensive information about training courses is available at the Business Link site (www.businesslink.gov.uk). Use it to find online courses, workshops or seminars or to search a national database of courses. It is an extremely valuable service - searching for a seminar on e-commerce, for example, brings up a number of cheap, or even free, one-day or half-day courses.Sources of informationBusiness LinkTel: 0845 600 9006Email: email addresses for the regional business links are available from the websitewww.businesslink.gov.ukEducation and Learning WalesTel 08456 088066Web:www.elwa.org.uk(you can email from the site)Greenwich Enterprise BoardTel: 020 8305 2666Email:info@geb.co.ukWeb:www.geb.co.ukLearndirect for BusinessTel: 0800 101901Web:www.learndirect-business.co.uk(you can email from the site)Learning and Skills CouncilTel: 0870 900 6800Email:info@lsc.gov.ukWeb:www.lsc.gov.ukScottish EnterpriseTel: 0845 607 8787Email:network.helpline@scotent.co.ukWeb:www.scottish-enterprise.com
The notion of a home office was seen 10 years ago or more as some sort of business panacea - everyone should work from home or be given the option to do so, said many corporate policies. There would be savings in cost and increases in productivity.Then the reality set in, and corporations had requests from home workers to return to the office because they missed the social life or wanted more intense management. Earlier this month the TUC, Oxfam and the National Group on Homeworking came out with a report suggesting organisations were actually exploiting home workers, indeed that home workers were being paid as little as 73p an hour in some cases.So maybe the panacea effect was on the 'exaggerated' side of 'totally fictional'. But there are  still benefits to be had from home working, whether as a self-employed sole trader, a business owner or an employee, as long as you manage yourself or are managed appropriately.Imogen Haslam, adviser at the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development, says there is a mixture of the practical and the psychological when it comes to working from home successfully. "One of the most important things to do is for the employer and employee to act as adults; there needs to be a strong trust between both parties." For example, then, the employer needs to take it as read that the employee won't be watching  daytime TV and the employee needs to assume they are still part of the team.In a practical sense the employer still has a duty of care to remote employees in terms of health and safety, Haslam points out. An employer's obligation to provide an appropriate  working environment doesn't stop because the employee lives on the premises." But really the major things are about motivation and communication."For the sole trader starting up, motivation tends to come from within. Ian Florance, owner of business marketing and psychology company Only Connect, was previously employed in a larger concern for a number of years. But, he concedes, it wasn't for him: "Being a manager, which I took quite seriously, is quite a complicated job, and I think I was quite good at it, but it used to wear me out."The business went through upsizing, downsizing and other changes. "I got quite ill in the end with it. We had to move the company and that was the straw that broke the camel 's back." He decided there were other things he wanted to do outside work for which he wanted more time.It is fairly clear that for Florance, as for many others, work/life balance was a prime influence in his decision to work from home. He discussed it with his wife, who urged him to do it and accepted a potential drop in income and reliance on her salary if things went wrong - for which Florance remains grateful.His next step, unusually, was to talk to a counsellor. "I had a psychologist friend, and she knew I was going freelance. She rang me up and said: 'I'd really like to give you some counselling about this, because I think everyone should have some before they make this decision.'" He filled in a questionnaire, sent it back and spent four hours on the phone getting feedback from her (she was based in the US)."There were some very specific things I was nervous about - skills, for example," says Florance. "I'd always had a computer department and I 'd never operated a computer on my own." Psychological issues also came into play: "People are either introverts or extroverts - that means people are either energised by other people or exhausted by other people ...  I'm a real  introvert. She said I'd really enjoy working on my own, but one of the problems might be that I might stop going out, and I'd have to force myself to go out and sell to people."Experience proved this to be true. The psychologist's suggested strategy was to set up a group of people with whom Florance could meet regularly, which he now does. Motivation was also an issue - many home workers assume that if the money comes in, that will be motivation  enough. "The only thing that really motivated me was other people's praise, and if you're  freelance only very rarely do people make a point of ringing you up to thank you." Again, the suggested strategy was people-based - Florance now has a set of friends to whom he can talk about work and who encourage him.The other issue facing Florance in particular, but managers in general, was concentration - typically a manager will start something off then delegate it; as they get older, they are less inclined to  finish a job once it has been started. "Look at the things you least like the look of and do them first," he suggests - which he did with setting up financial systems, for example.None of this means an employer should accept any eccentric demand from a remote employee, but these issues can arise because of the home setting - inevitably an employee will be truer to who they are on home territory. And they won't always benefit from being that person by themselves. Haslam says: "British Telecom went heavily into home working, then had to change its policy so that there were opportunities for staff to get together." People often motivate themselves through communication, she says. "It's also hard to be creative - you can't really brainstorm on your own."In fact, anyone thinking employing home workers is an easy option should think again, quickly. Legislation last year means more employees than ever can ask for home working and within six  months of the laws coming in, the Chartered Institute of Personnel Development found 28% of employers had seen an increase in such requests. It can be done well and for entrepreneurs, it can often be the only way to start - as long as they are prepared to learn new management skills along the way.The full montyDan Atkins is managing director of Chilli Media, a TV production company specialising in sports action television launched in 1984. He worked in sporting associations from 1996 in London - for example, managing the Professional Windsurfing Association - and became increasingly involved in television.He started working for a company specialising in sports television which launched on the Stock Exchange and was snapped up by Australian company Sportsworld. But the company collapsed in the wake of the turmoil in media rights and football 2002. Atkins set up Chilli and took his clients with him, initially cycling from his Putney home in south-west London to a Richmond office. When personal circumstances took him to a converted farmhouse in Cornwall, however, the chance to set up an office and edit suite at home became a reality."I said it doesn't really matter where you are, so we looked at Chilli to see whether we could move it," he explains. "I'm standing in our office, which is a 20m barn conversion, 25 metres from my front door. There's a walled garden just by the window..." The equipment he put in wasn't cheap; he needed a soundproofed wall for the edit suite and a small broadband network. "I've got one laptop, one fax and broadband, and that supports the whole office."Cornwall itself has been supportive in terms of finance: "The Cornwall Pure Business office said there was help it could give with capital purchases." He financed the 80,000 edit suite but took out an interest-free loan for part of it. "They made the move so straightforward - there's a culture here that's not there in London. They have business advisers who will talk to you about international sales, marketing or anything."And no, Atkins wouldn't go back for the foreseeable future. Something about walking out of the editing suite after an intensive session and straight into the garden appeals to him, unsurprisingly.Kitchen table warriorEvery piece of advice ever published on working from home is quite specific about one thing: you need a dedicated space away from the rest of your home. The difficulty with this, as David Fuller, a director of sports marketing company Lateral Synching, has found, is that property prices in London don't always allow for such a space. "I live on my own, so I don't have issues like shutting out kids; and I find with rented accommodation the way it is in London, dedicating     space in my fairly small home just isn't going to work, from a look and feel or space point of view. My bedroom is off limits."Fuller and his fellow directors have wireless laptops and mobile phones, but Fuller doesn't have a desk as such - he's a kitchen table warrior. "I have tried a home office - I went through a stage a couple of years ago when I did the whole thing, but I just felt I was recreating the office environment I'd spent so long trying to get out of. I opt for a more casual feel - I spend most of my time in Starbucks and pubs with public access points."As easy as ABCFormer advertising agency managing director Anthony Bullock decided to set up a publishing company, Monday 2 Friday Books (http://www.m2fbooks.com). A family man, he wanted books that would be structured as bedtime reads - ideally five chapters of equal length, requiring 10-15 minutes' reading a night, with a calming ending to send the kids to sleep. And there was nothing on the market.He started writing and found huge stimulation in being his own client after marketing other people's goods for so long. "I was on the edge of offering these books to an established publisher, then I thought It would be much more exciting to use my business brain and to grow the series."Key to making the thing work was the technology. "I'm an Apple Mac person: I have a laptop and my wife has a laptop and they're wireless, so you can back up across the network." Specialist home office equipment was easy to find: "Just went to Ikea." The laptop makes him mobile, but his experience with hotspots hasn't been positive so far: "It's not always as straightforward as it should be." Future refinements will include a third-party messaging service so that callers always get a person responding, and eventually premises as the company grows and employs people.
&#183;Polycom is bringing its video-conferencing technology to the smaller business. Only this isn't the usual 'cheap camera on top of the monitor' technology - it works with a television (or TV card in your PC), has no software to install and offers TV-like picture quality and sound, all for the price of a laptop. Called the V500, it simply plugs into a power  supply and the Scart socket of  the television. The company says it is TV rather than  computer-based to avoid heavy network traffic and loads on already stretched computers, and stresses most of the small office/home office setups at which the product is aimed have a TV to which it can be attached.&#183;The competition for your phone calls is intensifying as new company XLN Telecom starts offering flat rate of 3.00 a month for unlimited calls for business customers.  The company claims to be achieving a low churn rate - 4% - and the line rental, at 9.99 a month, is lower than most of the competition. The 3.99 price is on a per line basis. For further details call XLN on 0800 027 5027 or look atwww.xlntelecom.co.uk.&#183;Employers offering car subsidies to employees could be increasingly liable if they are faulty and involved in an accident, according to Manchester law firm Glaysiers. Many employers have cut their tax bills by offering employees cash rather than company cars. But  forthcoming corporate manslaughter legislation could make companies equally liable even if they have never seen the vehicle in question. The phrase Glaysiers believes will cause concern is "management failures", which the draft legislation cites as a reason for invoking corporate  manslaughter charges - the law firm believes this is woolly enough to catch people who have innocently subsidised an employee's vehicle purchase if the car is subsequently deemed unfit for purpose.&#183;Coutts and Co is sponsoring the Entrepreneur of the Year awards. The awards are in their sixth year in the UK and aim to identify the best entrepreneurs in growing  businesses, much as the title indicates. Coutts is getting involved to cement its place as an entrepreneur's bank after coming top in a private banking survey published by Euromoney magazine in January this year.&#183;UK businesses are going into mobile technology in a big way, believes mobile phone operator O2, but they are not planning their spend efficiently. The company has found that 12% of IT budgets are now going on mobile technology, but 63% of companies have no mobile strategy in place. Perhaps more worryingly, 35% of wireless technology purchases are happening away from the IT department, while 18% of IT directors admit they have no idea about the use of personal devices, such as handheld computers, in the business.&#183;Businesses moving into exports are losing out, says export specialist WinWeb International. The company commissioned a survey that suggests 64% of exporters believe they can penetrate a new market within six months. However, international trade commissioners, who provide companies with help, believe it takes longer. The logical conclusion is that organisations will underbudget for time and therefore lose out. According to 56% of trade commissioners, exporters should allow between six months and a year, while 33% think it would take over a year to conquer a new market.&#183;Broadband provider NTL has published some research suggesting senior managers are recovering up to 52 days a year in time gained by using a fast internet connection. Executives are using the time for marketing and other initiatives instead of reducing their working hours. NTL says 52% of companies have upgraded to broadband in the UK. Over 60% of businesses say they will increase their broadband speed again if it increases productivity, while fewer than 10% say they will consider using the time saved to allow their staff perks, such as watching the Olympics or Wimbledon during office hours.&#183;Small business had a record bad month for virus and other attacks in April -  for the third month running, according to security specialist Via.Networks. A stunning one in every 10 emails sent had a virus, compared with one in 13 in March. The Netsky and Bagel worms were the fastest-spreading, clogging mailboxes with junk. The company is urging businesses to overhaul their security strategies, not only on the technical side but also in communicating the risks to staff.
Here are a few of the politer adjectives used to describe Britain's railway network: crumbling, beleaguered, fractured, unreliable. The motorways are jammed and cheap inter-city flights are clogging the skies. Could the age of the Wi-Fi train change all that?Earlier this year, Broadreach Networks commissioned the largest ever survey of interest in, and awareness of, wireless broadband internet access among business travellers. The  results, released last week, will encourage train operators trying to claw back customers from budget airlines and rail enthusiasts alike.The survey found 72% of businessmen and women would choose to travel by train if it was Wi-Fi enabled rather than drive or fly. Passengers said they would be willing to pay up to 12 for access on journeys of more than two hours and a whopping 85% thought Wi-Fi would help  them use their time more productively. These figures are all the more impressive considering the fact that fewer than 10% of respondents said they had ever used a Wi-Fi hotspot. In short, the message is: "We don 't know exactly how it works and we've never used it, but we definitely want it."Broadreach, a Wi-Fi provider working with five train operators to introduce the service, can afford itself a smile. With the likes of GNER alone carrying 15m passengers a year, on-train broadband will surely be a money-spinner for service providers once it is rolled out. Telecoms analyst BWCS predicts that within five years, 625m people a year around the world will be  travelling on Wi-Fi trains.But the benefits of fast, secure net access are not restricted to those who will make money from it. Workers can stay in touch with their offices and use their travel time more productively. Emails can be sent, tickets booked, research done, news read. This would mean more leisure time and less work-related stress, according to 30% of those interviewed for the survey. If successful, the balance could one day tilt in favour of longer travel in a comfortable working environment rather than faster travel with less opportunity to work. And that's without  touching on the environmental benefits of a switch from cars and planes to trains.As for charges, the survey showed that 47% of people would prefer to pay a flat fee of between 5 and 12, depending on the length of their journey.Broadreach is working to fit 700 trains with satellite wireless hotspots. All companies involved - bar Virgin - have confidentiality clauses written into their contracts, but the other operators are thought to include Scotrail and Eurostar.Broadreach founder Magnus McEwen-King says: "Trains are the ultimate location for Wi-Fi hotspots. Enabling workers to stay in contact with their workplace in what was previously dead  time will give them more time for themselves and their family. Employers benefit too - the savings we get out of the extra time staff can use for work are more than offset by the costs we would have to pay for this kind of service."Logistics mean the service can't be available overnight. McEwen-King says: "The key problem is taking trains out of  service to install the kit. We're introducing the service with some partners this year and beginning the mass roll-out in January 2005. Two years or so from now most of the UK 's rolling stock will be Wi-Fi enabled."East coast main line operator GNER was the first UK company to run a Wi-Fi  trial and has installed the service on three trains in conjunction with Swedish firm Icomera. The train company has invested 1m in rolling out GNER Mobile Office on 10 of its trains. The service is free to first class passengers, with a charge of 4.95 an hour in standard class.Out west, Virgin is equipping its Pendolino locomotives with Wi-Fi and claims to be aiming for a full service by autumn 2004. A spokesman would not give a date, saying: "We are working to extend Wi-Fi access from stations to trains, but we want to be sure that the system works  perfectly before extending it."A First Great Western spokeswoman says the operator was considering Wi-Fi as part of its programme to replace its rolling stock. However, it seems unlikely net access will be available before the beginning of 2006, when its West Country franchise is up for renewal.The image of a network of workers continually on the move, gliding industriously and efficiently around a real information superhighway, is an appealing one. Unfortunately, the nature of the  infrastructure means that passengers will often have more time to enjoy the benefits of Wi-Fi than they bargained for.As compensation, there could be another significant bonus - peace. After all, a world where people can send an email saying "I 'm on the train" rather than bellowing it down a mobile phone is surely a nirvana, of some sort.
Rudyard Kipling, Dylan Thomas, Roald Dahl... all somehow squeezed their huge genius into garden sheds and there penned masterpieces. Mine is the latest name on the list of shed-loving literary luminaries. Except my shed is, well, more than just a shed. And my genius, sadly, has no problems fitting in it.Being a sheddy is inextricably linked to being a man, being British and being self-employed. Gender and nationality were not matters of choice, but I did choose my workstyle. I signed up four years ago after three dotcom redundancies. But freelancing is the writer's natural medium and at least I can't sack myself.The next step was where to work. At the time my partner and I were renting a two-bedroom at. Simple. I took over the spare room, shoving in a desk and chair and monopolising the phone-line with my dial-up ISP.Initially it worked. I had a dedicated space in which to wait for the phone to ring. But I got busier, and friends staying the weekend awoke alarmed to find me rushing to meet deadlines at the foot of their bed. Finally, after yet another rent increase, it was time to buy.Finding a at with space enough to work and live in Brighton for under 150,000 was difficult in 2002. Impossible now. We couldn't afford two bedrooms, but I had to have workspace. Having shunned the office, I refused to rent one.A shed would be dedicated workspace and, thanks to a sofa bed, an occasional crash pad for tipsy dinner guests. The boundary between work and home would be strengthened. After much searching we found the perfect at: one bedroom and a 70 foot garden - room for a shed of giant proportions. The shack we inherited wouldn't do. A scan of the imsy Wendy houses at the big DIY chains confirmed I was going to need a bigger shed and a bigger budget than the 1,000 set aside. According to the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors, even a small shed can add as much as 5% to a property's value. It's an investment. Honest.Online I found many companies catering for the Soho market. The Garden Office Company looked good. My hand trembled as I turned to the Warwick: a mini-mansion fresh from a plantation, a cedar-shingled, double-doored, southern fantasy, complete with porch, for just 8,120 (including VAT).When choosing a company get photos of recent projects. Even better, travel to the showroom- you wouldn't buy a home without viewing, after all. Inside I discovered the Warwick was gloomy, so I opted for a Velux window. And the colours looked nothing like the swatches - a sickly Sage disaster was narrowly averted.Make sure the company is registered, insured and established. A call to the local Trading Standards office will confirm all this and alert you to any previous complaints. Get quotes in writing (highlighting how long they are valid for).Then the real work began: securing planning permission, prepping the site and arranging access, all before it arrived in eight to 10 weeks. Inside there was the painting, flooring, furnishing, heating, lighting and internet.Unless you are sole freeholder and your property is outside a conservation area you will need planning permission. Get the shed company to provide plans. You must also include scale site drawings. Two months after I applied, permission was granted. Had it been refused, my deposit would have been refunded - get this agreed in writing before you order.Now is the time to negotiate price - I saved 20% because I was willing to wait for my order.      Two weekends of destruction later and the old shed and surrounding shrubs were gone. Builders began the foundation. Get concrete and hard-core to a depth of 10cm. Two days and 1,200 later it was down. Two months later it was dry and ready to build on.D-day (delivery day) was set for January. But queues at the factory meant delay. February. A big lorry arrives with the shed stacked inside like a giant jigsaw. The heavens open and the lorry leaves. The Garden Office Company claims the problem was not the rain - as its delivery team said - but access. At the company's request, I'd supplied photographs of every access point and obstacle and it had raised no objections. And so, after angry negotiations, the 15% penalty fee it had tried to hit me for was forgotten. Ensure that, if your company is unable to erect the shed, you get its reasons for not doing so in writing before it leaves.February 10. The shed arrives - again. Rather than squeezing it through the at the whole thing is lifted over the back garden wall in great big panels. (If your delivery team needs to cross a neighbouring garden, get permission first.)By 11am the walls were up. By lunch the roof timbers were on and by 4pm the windows and doors were glazed and the roof was shingled. It rained overnight. No leaks. Next day the interior was finished. They hammered and sawed and smoked and drank tea until 3pm. A friend came round to inspect (it's called "snagging" in the trade). She found minor flaws, which they fixed. Then they were gone, leaving a very muddy garden and a very swanky shed.Three days later, satisfied it wasn't going to fall down or blow away, I paid the final balance. It had taken six months to get from the factory, less than 48 hours to build and a further two months to kit out.Now I am online at the back of my garden thanks to a wireless network from SMC Networks. My mobile and my landline both work down here. An oil-filled radiator takes the edge off cold mornings and I have a fan for summer. And my watercooler stops me trailing up to the house.      At last, a room of one's own. But what to call it? It's not an office, although I work there. And it's not a spare bedroom, although it will be slept in. Shed somehow isn't quite grand enough. But it worked for Kipling, so it'll do for me.Costs and suppliers(1) Shed: 8,120, 'Warwick' model. 14' by 12' (the Garden Office Company 0800 195 1733. See also The Garden Escape,www.thegardenescape.co.uk)(2) Planning permission: 110(3) Foundation: 700 (Tom &amp; Ben Rymer 01273 772191)(4) Electricals: 1,007 (Mr Electric: 0800 731 1606)(5) Wireless internet: 326(6) Paint: 110(7) Flooring: 325 (27.50 per square metre; Finnforest 01205 883883, (www.finnforest.co.uk)(8) Furniture: 209.97, including chair 69.99, bookcase 59.99, desk 79.99. Order online atwww.staples.co.uk(9) Radiator: 60(10) Watercooler: 250 to buy or 8-10 monthly rental, including water (www.e-watercoolers.com)(11) KYE wireless mouse and keyboard: 38.78 (www.microdirect.co.uk)Total:11,256.75&#183;Damian Barr's book - Getting It Together: Surviving Your Quarterlife crisis - is published by Hodder &amp; Stoughton
Overstretched mortgage borrowers aren't the only ones whose pulses quicken when the first Thursday of each month comes around. Britain's three million small businesses are also scrutinising the monthly deliberations of the Bank of England's interest rate setters.The Old Lady's manoeuvres, generally regarded as an attempt to take the steam out of the property market and stop consumers wielding their credit cards, mean more expensive borrowing for many of the country's SMEs. Much of the estimated 40m owed in this sector is in the form of arranged overdrafts where interest rates often track the base rate.Recent research by the Federation of Small Businesses (FSB) and the independent business thinktank Tenon suggest that although UK businesses are optimistic about their future prospects, many are holding off borrowing because they are fearful of more rate rises, because of increased expense and slackening consumer demand. The monetary policy committee raised the base rate to 4.25% this month and there is now a near consensus among economists that by the end of 2004 the figure will be at least 5%.In Tenon's Entrepreneurial Britain survey, seven out of 10 small businesses said they were not considering borrowing within the next 12 months to invest in their business. More than a third of companies said a rise to 5% would have a severely negative effect on their business plans. Should the base rate hit 6%, 60% of companies said they would suffer a severe negative impact on their business.Alan Newton, chairman of the Tenon Forum, says: "A rise of one percentage point (say from 4% to 5%) would not cost an SME with average borrowings considerably more in terms of interest payments. What may be behind our survey results is a collective memory of the carnage wreaked on many smaller businesses in the early 1990s, and the fact that the majority of SMEs no longer have a personal relationship with their bank manager."In the FSB's Lifting the Barriers to Growth study of more than 18,000 companies, 57% reported increased sales and 67% enjoyed rising profitability. The report also found that although 51% of respondents used an overdraft as their main source of funding, there has been a significant move away from this kind of borrowing.Many businesses now favour loans, especially fixed-rate deals, as their preferred method of raising funds. The Bank of England's annual report on small firms, released at the end of last month, revealed that among the 4.5 million small business accounts in operation at the end of 2003, term lending rose by 10.4% to 2.8bn over the year to stand at 29.8bn. In contrast, overdraft lending was virtually unchanged over the year, up 0.5% at 9.1bn.What are the advantages and disadvantages of loans and overdrafts? Whatever you choose, there is a pay-off to be made between flexibility of terms and lower interest charges. Before you take the plunge, you must assess what is most important to the business and what you are borrowing money for, whether you are starting up or making an acquisition.Term loans are usually used as start-up capital or to buy assets and typically have interest rates of around 8%-10%. The advantage of this type of borrowing is that you are guaranteed the money for a fixed period and can budget for the payments for the entire term. Inflexibility is the chief minus point - once you are locked in it may be expensive to settle early. Additionally, late payment from customers can cause cash flow problems when it comes to making your monthly payments.If your business is new, any lender will want personal guarantees from the company's directors or shareholders. If you are giving personal guarantees, you must go through the small print carefully - you don't want to be liable for all of the losses of the business if you can help it.      Small firms that are seeking funding but lack the assets to provide security can apply for the Small Firms Loan Guarantee (SFLG), which provides lenders with a government guarantee against default. The SFLG is a joint venture between the Department of Trade and Industry and approved banks and other financial institutions. It offers a guarantee covering 75% of the loan up to 250,000. You can find out more atwww.dti.gov.uk/sflg.It is worth exploring the many ways you can make borrowing tax-efficient, for example by claiming loan interest against tax. The government's Business Link website (www.businesslink.gov.uk) has a section on this complex area. The site also has information on specialist loans for Muslim businesses, co-operatives and young and mature business people.Overdrafts are more appropriate for day-to-day expenses and ensuring smooth cash flow. They often have high interest rates and carry arrangement fees and penalties for exceeding the overdraft limit, but they also offer flexibility in terms of the amount borrowed and are quick to arrange.A typical interest rate for an authorised overdraft is around 10% APR, or up to 5% over base rate. Straying into the twilight world of unauthorised borrowing is predictably horrorsome. A typical penalty is that charged by the Co-operative bank - 7.50 a day plus 25.59% interest. Users are charged a further 15 for the pleasure of receiving a letter pointing out they have exceeded their overdraft limit.The other chief consideration with an overdraft is that it can be called in by the lender at any time. This form of lending is usually secured against business assets and your lender can seize these if you don't repay the money.If you are taking out a loan you should seek advice from a professional adviser. Your bank could offer ways to help you manage your cash flow and the cost of borrowing, such as offsetting, where credit on one account offsets debit on another, reducing your overdraft charges. Whether you opt for a loan or overdraft, compare all the deals on offer using the British Bankers' Association's Business Account Finder atwww.bba.org.uk.
e-head huntedThe government has appointed Accenture's UK managing director as the first head of e-government. Ian Watmore, 45, will     replace Andrew Pinder, the e-envoy, as head of the effort to put public services online by the end of 2005. His e-government unit,     based in the Cabinet Office, will also try to make savings in the civil service by joining up government departments.He starts in     September on a salary of up to 192,000. Watmore joins several high profile chief information officers appointed from the private     sector - NHS IT chief Richard Granger, the head of criminal justice IT John Suffolk and the newly appointed head of IT at the     Department for Work and Pensions, Joe Harley.Virus-free ZoneZone Labs is adding anti-virus software from Computer Associates International to its flagship firewall to offer an integrated     desktop security package for small to medium-sized businesses. As an independent division of Check Point Software     Technologies, Zone Labs has a strong pedigree in the firewall market and feels the integration of CA's eTrust Antivirus product     will make it more competitive with security suites from Symantec and Network Associates. Zone Alarm Security Suite extends and     replaces Zone Alarm Pro with Web Filtering, and current licensees will be offered a free upgrade. A single licence for the suite     costs 49.95 (33.38) covering upgrades and support for one year, or 69.90 (46.68) for two years.www.zonelabs.comSkin tradeRegular patrons of a Barcelona nightclub are being offered VIP membership, which means having an RFID (radio frequency     identification) capsule inserted under the skin of their upper arms. The Baja Beach Club has agreed to test Applied Digital     Solutions' Verichip, and volunteers will be able to gain special privileges. The RFID tags will be detected by radio stimulation     when a member enters the club's VIP lounge. Drink orders will be debited automatically from pre-registered credit cards.www.4verichip.comScan clanThe British government's biometric identity card trial has spread north of the border, and as more of the problems are smoothed     out in London, Leicester and Newcastle, the quest to enrol 10,000 volunteers carries on. The Glasgow trial involves the Driver     and Vehicle Licensing Agency, and further cards will be issued from mobile units in Wales and south-east England. The cards use     iris, fingerprint, and facial scans to ensure the bearer can be positively identified. The experiment is expected to finish on time in     August. Volunteers can register with Mori.Just say noNo2ID, a group opposed to David Blunkett's ID card, launched itself at a public meeting at the London School of Economics last     week, with parliamentarians, civil liberties campaigners and a former chief constable of Sussex criticising the plans. A YouGov     survey of 2,003 Britons found that 61% favour cards, but support falls for the scheme's specific proposals: 41% favour, and 47%     oppose, the legal requirement to inform the Home Office whenever they change address.www.no2id.netTrack thatAirespace has announced an Airespace Wireless Location Services (AWLS) suite that combines Wi-Fi wireless networking with     RFID (radio frequency identification) tagging. This will enable IT staff to track mobile devices, for example, as part of an asset     management application. It uses matchbox-sized 802.11 RFID Transceiver "tags" that the company says "are easily attached to     devices and people for seamless tracking". The system can track thousands of things at once and is accurate to within a few     metres. The Transceiver batteries last three years.www.no2id.netBright buySymantec Corporation has bought Brightmail, the spam-blocking company, for about $370m in cash. Symantec plans to add     Brightmail filtering to its gateway products, while Brightmail already uses Symantec technology in its anti-virus software.     Brightmail's president and chief executive, Enrique Salem, used to work for Symantec, which already owned 11% of the company.Open handAnnouncements at two conferences in the US this week will give the open source software (OSS) movement a boost. Computer     Associates says it will make its Linux-based Ingres Enterprise Relational Database and Kernel Generalized Event Management     (KGEM) open source. It has also added Document Manager, based on an open-source engine from Plone, to its BrightStor     storage management range. Separately, BEA Systems confirmed its plans to open source parts of its Workshop programming     toolset under the name of the Beehive project. The initiative is designed to complement other open source projects.http://ca.com/opensource
