The travails over the past week or so of Psystar - the Miami-based startup which said that it would offer Apple's latest version of OS X, "Leopard", on generic boxes - have been enormously entertaining. The way that the company apparently moved from place to place (judging by its website) made me wonder if it was being run by one of those impromptu teams from The Apprentice - with one bunch haring around town trying to buy up copies of Leopard at full price from shops while others head down to Quik-E-Computer to buy some low-priced computer chassis, leaving someone else back at the office, swearing at the computer. And then all being called back into the boardroom to be told they're an absolute shower.As I write (on Tuesday), nobody seems to have received any computers from Psystar, more than a week after it said it would have them out the door in 48 hours. Still, patience is a virtue.But even if Psystar's adventures are some sort of bizarro version of everyone's favourite business game, they have demonstrated one thing very clearly: there is huge pent-up demand for cheaper Apple gear. Forums abound with people saying: "I'd love to buy an Apple machine, but I just can't afford it. And the ones they're offering don't do what I want." The customers clearly want to have a wider choice, especially at the bottom end. And in the middle, actually, where they want a midrange tower rather than the supercharged Mac Pro towers that Apple offers.The ironic thing is that too much choice nearly killed Apple. When Steve Jobs returned there, more than a decade ago, he proclaimed himself mystified by its bewildering range of desktop computers - the Performa, the Quadra, the LC, the Power Macintosh. "What's the difference?" he asked, and binned the lot - to be replaced by the "grid of four": portables and desktops, for pros and consumers. He also killed the clone makers that Apple estimated had taken 10% of its business.But if people want a bargain-basement machine then Apple is leaving money on the table by not offering it. If enough startups make cloned Macs, Apple gets just $129 per machine (the price of Leopard at retail) - or perhaps only the wholesale price (which, Sir Alan would tell you, is probably two-fifths of the retail price, or $51.60). Apple's10K stock filingshows that its net sales per computer sold are $1,532 (compared to $181 per iPod sold). We can't be sure how much profit each generates, but it seems a fair assumption that it's more than $129, or $51.60. Letting people make clones is financially bad news for Apple. With more than $18bn in the bank, it could afford to shave its margins to stave off cloners.Now, mea errata. In previous columns here, I've complained about the instability of OS X 10.5, aka "Leopard". Turns out I was wrong. The machine I'd installed it on had a known memory board fault. Once that was fixed, the problems vanished. ("D'ya think it was tin whiskers?" asked a colleague. Well, it might have been, but how would we know?)That though raises the question of how many other people who've had problems with Leopard actually had problems with Apple's hardware. I realised that every Apple my family has owned has had some problem - two failed logic boards, one broken Firewire port, one cosmetic crack; and a work colleague just told me of his wife's bust MacBook. Yes, a logic board again.On consideration, Apple might not like clones. But it might be that everyone else really is ready for them. Someone call the Apprentices!
Apple has announced itssecond quarter results, showing $7.51bn revenues (up 43%) and profits of $1.05bn (up 36%) - compared to $5.26bn and $770m the year-ago quarter.Sales of Macintosh computers wereseriouslyup - to 2.289m (up 51% units, 54% revenues) while iPod sales grew much more slowly, to 10.64m (1% units, but 6% revenues). And Apple ended the quarter with even more cash, $19.4bn. (Slightly smaller since it bought chipmaker PA Semi.)The number of Macs sold was actually smaller than the previous quarter, but that's not surprising - the earlier quarter, October-December, includes Christmas. The revenue's less than the earlier quarter, which was $9.6bn. But again, that was Christmas. People buy stuff then. iPhones sold: 1.7m, generating $378m with deferred revenue (which will come onto the books later) of $1.93bn.Over to Steve Jobs: "With over $17 billion in revenue for the first half of our fiscal year, we have strong momentum to launch some terrific new products in the coming quarters."New products, huh?But let's have some more,courtesy of Macworld, which listened in to the conference call with analysts. Music was 36% of revenue (wow, that's a lot); share of the US MP3 market 73%.Tim Cook, the chief financial officer, is confident of hitting the target of 10m iPhones sold for the year (that is, 2008). Unlocking of iPhones "remains a significant number". The iPhone 2.0 software will come in "late" June, it seems.And that's about it, to be honest. Tell us if you find any more informative information. There's also theaudioif you want to listen to that. Requires Apple's QuickTime - are you surprised?
"The world is built on bad ideas." These are the last words of a gun club vigilante who, in the GTA IV mission 'Three Leaf Clover' decides to interrupt a bank heist. It is a really, really bad idea.The phrase symbolises the world of Grand Theft Auto. A world of criminals stumbling from one disastrous job to another, double and triple crossing each other en route, leaving corpses in their wake. In six days time this absorbing, exciting and gloriously seedy universe is about to open up again.Today I went to Rockstar and played GTA IV for several hours. I only saw the Xbox 360 version and then only a handful of the 100 or so story missions. But, wow. It would seem to be everything we've been led to believe and quite possibly more. It is a game of simply breathtaking scope, filled with wit and smut and beautifully engineered violence. Niko is a revelation - a tragi-comic hard nut with a heart of fool's gold and a past so murky you almost don't want to know about it (but apparently you will).His life in New York bounces him around every criminal low-life archetype you could wish for, from Irish hoodlums to gold-chained local wideboys, all with gutter mouths and weird personal peccadilloes. It's strange - and excuse me if this sounds pretentious - but the cut-scenes are almost theatrical rather than cinematic. The dialogue is mannered, the characters talking around each other, going through strange masculine routines, locked into their own crappy worlds. It's sort of Tarantino meets Pinter or Mamet. Whatever, it works.Liberty city is a dense, lovingly crafted playground, its five boroughs reflecting the cultural diversity and differing populace of New York's own real-life delineations. Algonquin is Manhattan, a mass of gleaming office blocks culminating in the neon explosion of Times Square, or Star Junction as it's known here. Broker is Brooklyn, all crumbling brownstones and rusting overpasses. The people are different too. Jack a car in Algonquin and the terrified stockbroker inside will probably run screaming from his vehicle. Try it in Broker and you'll usually have to fight for it. (Unless it's a woman in the driving seat - they will never initiate violence.) The Rockstar PR chap shifted me into debug mode and gave me a helicopter to try out. I swooped under bridges and over the mid-town skyscrapers - I brought it down on the roof of one of them, got out and peered over the edge, the city expanding out beneath me.The control system will take a bit of getting used to - especially in a gunfight. On the Xbox 360 pad, left trigger auto-aims while right shoots, you can also flick the left analogue stick right or left to select between targets, or flick up and down to go for a head or chest shot. Alternatively, half pressing the left trigger brings up the aiming reticule but gives you manual control over targeting - great if you have a sub-machine gun and a roomful of baddies in close proximity to each other.The right shoulder button locks you into a covering position, from which you can either lean out and shoot, or simply waft your gun over the top or round the side - the former is more accurate, of course, but it means placing yourself in greater danger. The latter is... well, when Niko crouches behind a car, then arches his assault rifle over the bonnet spraying bullets without even looking, the animation is so outrageously cool you'll want to kiss the screen. Combine this with the ability to slide into a cover position by hitting the right shoulder button while sprinting and you're creating your own slick, highly choreographed movie shoot-out on the fly.As in previous games you can also use most weapons while driving, but the system has been updated. You can now shoot in 360 degree arcs around your vehicle, using one analogue stick to steer, the other to control your aiming. Of course, when you're blasting behind you, it's near-impossible to see where you're going, but of course, the same would be true in real-life, and it's all part of the game's risk-reward dynamic; there were several occasions I was happily blasting at the cops behind me, only to drive straight into a wall. Oh well, just leap out and jack another. No harm done.In fact when things go horribly wrong you usually just end up laughing - this is one of those rare games (as previous titles have been) where failure is rewarded, usually with carnage and destruction. I laughed a lot.There's a lot more to come. Apparently, the story is rife with moral choices; for the first time in the series you'll be shaping the narrative, personalising it. I've barely scratched the surface of the relationships you must form and manipulate as you go through the missions, the way in which the mobile phone and in-game web browser take the place of traditional menu screens, pushing the game forward in a seamless satire on digital communication.I can't score GTAIV, there's plenty I don't know yet. I was never a massive fan of the series, I enjoyed the previous titles, but I saw the flaws. But one thing's for sure. This is an important game - important in a way that Halo 3 wasn't - important because it is so ambitious, so detailed, so confident in its originality and inventiveness.It would sort of be an act of cultural irresponsibility not to play it.
It's coming out next Tuesday, and the gaming world is already a'flutter with apprehension. But hey presto - GTA IV, Rockstar's latest, has already been manipulated, masticated and mauled by our very own Keith. But before he gives away the good stuff, we wanted to find out whatyouthink about the game's release.Will it be the best game ever? How do Rockstar get away with it? How do you think the game illiterate will respond to its release?We'll be discussing this on next week's Tech Weekly, so throw out your talking points, and we'll try to grapple with them on the air.
If you haven't yet absorbed the first bit of Microsoft's Live Mesh announcement, take a minute to readMicrosoft is introducing Live Mesh, a cloud computing platform, below.Although Microsoft has more Web-based software than most companies, developed a .net strategy based on XML and put Office online around the turn of the century, the vast bulk of its business is clearly based on client-server computing. That may not always be the case, and Live Mesh is part of the structure of a web-based operating system for the future.Microsoft's Chief Software Architect, Ray Ozzie, has therefore given staff aServices Strategy Update April 2008, which has been published on Read Write Web, among other places. This covers the significance of the 3Cs, content, commerce, and community, and all the connected services. It is, in short, a manifesto for the "Transformation of our Company".He concludes:For customers and partners who use and who‟ve invested in Microsoft‟s myriad offerings, we feel there‟s tremendous growth potential in moving toward a world that fully embraces software, services and the web. The device mesh, the social mesh, cloud-based infrastructure, and server/service symmetry represent great opportunities across all markets we serve. Over the course of this year, and progressively over the next few years, you‟ll see the principles and scenarios laid out in this document come to life through many new and service-enhanced products and services for individuals, businesses and developers. As you do, I hope you‟ll share my excitement and optimism as you experience how we‟re bringing together the power of the internet, with the magic of software, across a world of devices.That doesn't mean Live Mesh will get any traction with web developers, but it certainly has a chance, because it uses web standards such as REST, Atom/RSS/FeedSync and XML If you'd asked me last year, I'd have said: "Easy: it will be SharePoint plus Groove on steroids", and I'd have been wrong.Either way, it's going to be interesting to see how the "cloud computing will kill Microsoft" camp will cope with Microsoft becoming a major supplier with an advanced cloud infrastructure, superior PC integration and the ability to undercut it on price.For an example, it seems likely that Microsoft'sCRM Onlinetanks will eventually do quite a bit of damage to Salesforce.com.It will also be interesting to see what Google does. Although there's been lots of talk about a "Google operating system," so far all we've seen it do is reinvent the 1970s mainframe, only cheaper. But Google has hired enough people -- plenty of them from Microsoft -- for us to expect rather more than that.
DRM (Digital Rights Management) added to music is a really bad idea and you should never buy DRM-protected files, unless you have more money than sense (yes, iTunes user, that means you). The latest people to suffer are the ones who bought copy-protected songs from the long-defunct Microsoft MSN music service. They've hada note from from MSN's Rob Bennettthat says:As of August 31, 2008, we will no longer be able to support the retrieval of license keys for the songs you purchased from MSN Music or the authorization of additional computers. License keys already obtained as of August 31, 2008 will continue to allow you to listen to songs on all the computers that you previously authorized for service.So you can authorise your MSN music to play on five machines, but you won't be able to authorise it on future machines. Once your current systems die, your music dies too -- unless you take Bennett's advice andburn it to CDthen re-rip it. This isn't an ideal solution. Unfortunately it's the only one Microsoft offers.It seems to me this is a shabby way for Microsoft to treat people who have bought Music from Microsoft to run on a Microsoft platform.One alternative would have been to transfer license support to another Microsoft-based library. (MSN Music was actually Peter Gabriel's OD2, which pioneered online music stores before iTunes. OD2 got bought by Loudeye, which sold it on toNokiafor $60 million.) At worst, the same songs are probably available on Microsoft's ownZune marketplace.An even better alternative would have been to give these former MSN Music users new files: either ones protected with a different DRM or, preferably, DRM-free. Microsoft could have done a deal with Real Networks, Amazon or even Apple to provide a one-to-one replacement service. Sure, it would have cost them, but not enough to make a dent in Microsoft profits running at $1 billion a month.No music format lasts forever, and you probably have 45/78 vinyl, audio cassettes/VHS tapes or even LaserDisc/Elcaset/DAT/MiniDisc music you can no longer play. (I still have some stuff taped on 7 inch reels, and someone, somewhere, even has an uplayable DCC orDigital Compact Cassettetape. We're still looking for him.)But digital filesshouldbe able to survive longer than physical formats. Instead, because of DRM, they aren't even lasting as long.Update: CNet hastalked to Rob Bennett, who says that "that continuing to support the DRM keys was impractical, that the issue only affects a 'small number' of people and that focusing exclusively on Zune was the best way to go. He also noted that it wasn't Microsoft's decision to wrap music into digital rights management."Fine. If it's a small number of customers, you can afford to treat them right. Googlebacked downand refunded people's money in a similar case affecting video downloads, and thanked us for helping them see the light. Go thou and do likewise.
The games ratings boards are currently working in overdrive, with a spate of high-profile recommendations for and criticisms of current practices by reviewers and government bodies. The latest group to weigh in is the European Commission, whose member states currently operate under the voluntaryPEGIsystem, after the results of a survey describing national differences in enforcement exposed a spectrum of attitudes. From theBBC:The survey found that 20 states currently use Pegi and back up its recommendations on who should play particular games by different means. ... The survey said Germany and Lithuania were the only countries with specific laws governing how all games are sold. Malta has enacted broader laws on the same of games and a further 15 have laws that ban the sale of harmful games to minors.Four nations, Cyprus, Luxembourg, Romania and Slovenia, have no laws relating to the sale of harmful games.The Commission aims to distribute a code of conduct for retailers across the region.
Just weeks after Intel announced its low-power "Atom" chip platform, Apple has surprised, well, everyone by buying PA Semi, a "boutique" fabless chip design company, for $278m (£139m). (Gotta love that word "boutique": "ooh, that processor looks simplyfabon you!)"Fabless" means PA Semi doesn't bake its own; it lets other companies do that. It just designs - specifically, low-power chips. Possible uses (which you can be sure Apple will be quizzed on much further this evening, when it reports its quarterly results) look likely to be for the iPhone and iPod lines.But as for dropping Intel? Having got into the computer CPU boat there, it wouldn't make sense to try to rewrite Mac OS X for yet another architecture. However Intel did want Apple to use the Atom in the iPhone and iPod. So...Engadgetnotes:The company was founded by Dan Dobberpuhl, lead designer of DEC's doomed Alpha and StrongArm processors, and responsible for the introduction of a 2GHz, 64-bit dual-core microprocessor which in February 2007 was said to be 300% more efficient than comparable chips running at 5 to 13 watts.and adds that PA Semi and Apple werewithin a hairsbreadth of doing a dealahead of the Apple switch to Intel in 2005:there were a group of employees at a startup chip manufacturer called PA Semi who were even more shocked than most [at the 2005 announcement of a switch to Intel], according to reports, because right up until that keynote, they were sure that their company, and not Intel, would be chosen to supply the brains for what's now known as the MacBook family of laptops.Chris Edwards, whose ear is close to the ground on chipmaking,remarks:the move by Apple suggests that the company is not all that happy with the shape of today's integrated circuit (IC) business.One possibility is that Apple has decided it needs more in-house chip designers and buying PA was a quick way to staff up. That's not unusual in this business: it's a surprisingly common way of getting hold of people who can design the analogue circuits that most electronics engineers fear to touch. Even after you've bought in a bunch of processors and memory, there are other places a computer maker can use experienced IC designers to get an edge on its competitors. You don't see that much in the PC business but it's a lot more common in places like the phone market.He also points out:Apple might be able to lock the senior people in for a while but, if the project isn't a processor or something similarly complex, you would expect most of them to drift away quite quickly. So, it's fair to assume that Apple is serious about having its own processor design team, if not the PA processor itself.To round up:Apple's decision is not just a poke in the eye for Intel, which would have liked to sell its Atom into the world of MIDs (mobile internet devices). There are a ton of companies out there with processors based on ARM all desperate for a slice of the phone and MID markets. And it looks as though Apple looked at all of them and found them wanting.Hmm, is that the sound of chairs bouncing off the walls at Intel?
A slanging match is underway between two of the web's biggest companies after classifieds site Craigslist accused shareholder eBay of making "unethical assertions" and claimed it could be preparing for a hostile takeover.eBay has a 28.4% stake in Craigslist and yesterday issued a lawsuit against the site claiming management at the San Francisco-based online classifieds company had tried to dilute its holding.The online auction company said the details of the case were confidential, but added that in January Craigslist had diluted its stake by more than 10%.A post on Craigslist's blog last night under the heading "Tainted Love" said it was "surprised and disappointed" by eBay's allegations, which came "out of the blue and without any attempt to engage in a dialogue with us"."Coming from a shareholder that views Craigslist as a prime competitor, filing suit without so much as mentioning these assertions beforehand seems unethical, and hints at ulterior motives," the post stated."eBay has absolutely no reason to feel threatened here - unless of course they're contemplating a hostile takeover of Craigslist, or the sale of eBay's stake in Craigslist to an unfriendly party. For our part, we have always treated eBay very fairly as a minority shareholder, and plan to continue doing so, despite this unfortunate development."The auction website claims Craigslist's directors have "disadvantaged eBay and its investment in Craigslist", according to a statement by senior vice-president and general counsel Michael Jacobson."Since negotiating our investment with Craigslist's board in 2004, we have acted openly and in good faith as a minority shareholder, so we were surprised by these recent unilateral actions. We are asking the Delaware court to rescind these recent actions in order to protect eBay's stockholders and preserve our investment," Jacobson added.eBay and Craigslist have markedly different business philosophies. eBay made $7.7bn revenue in 2007 but despite its enormous popularity, Craigslist has repeatedly said it is not interested in maximising profit.The auction website employs 15,000 staff, while Craigslist employs 25. But eBay gained its Craigslist stake in 2005 when one of its partners sought out the auction firm and sold his shares for an undisclosed sum.Last month, Craigslist founder Craig Newmark said eBay had been a "benign backer" to date, despite "a lot of dire predictions that were made when it was made public that eBay had a stake".&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Sony is tobuy Gracenote, the company which holds the database of CD tracks that is accessed by (among others) Apple's iTunes when you stick a CD into your computer and rip the tracks. (While, of course, making an offertory to the artist for shifting it to another format, and crossing yourself in hope that the copyright police won't break down the door).The price forGracenote(formerlyCDDB): $260m (£130m), which is a tidy sum. At thestandard rule of thumbfor software(ish) companies, that suggests sales of about $170m, and if it's profitable at the standard level, probably generates profits of about $17m.How does it work? Every CD has an index track, with the length of each track in bytes. Though there's a lot of music out there, that index is almost always unique. So if someone has been kind enough to put the listing into Gracenote's database, then it can serve back the track listing. A little twiddling and hey presto, the ripping program populates your track listing.At various times, it's been interesting to find that you could see when artists' prerelease CDs had made their way onto the web - because the track listing was already there, and requests were being made for it. You could also track the most popular CDs that people were ripping - another indication of "what's on your iPod?"As well as CDs, notes Forbes, Gracenoteis also working on building a movie library to identify DVDs and determine if online videos contain copyrighted material.Interesting tale behind Gracenote, which began as a sort of collective effort - run for no profit - but grew so quickly that it had to turn into a commercial operation, else the servers would have fallen over. It definitely saved millions of fingers from the pain of having to type in CD titles - imagine if your iPod held thousands of tracks each called "Track 1, unknown album" - so that while there was some protest when it stopped being completely free, its takeup by big commercial groups (yes, Apple) enabled a seamless transition to paid-for listings.A rival open-source effort,FreeDB, says last year it got 237m requests. Not bad - but it doesn't compare to Gracenote's vast database.The history behind CDDB's mutation will surely stir up old resentments. As the Wikipedia entry for CDDB notes,The original software behind CDDB was released under the GNU General Public License, and many people submitted CD information thinking the service would also remain free. The project was eventually incorporated as CDDB LCC in 1998 and soon sold by Kan, Scherf, and Toal to a high tech consumer electronics manufacturer called Escient. In 2000, CDDB Inc. was renamed Gracenote. Despite early announcements that access to the CDDB service would "remain 100% free to software developers and consumers", the license was changed, however, and some programmers complained that the new license included certain terms that they couldn't accept: if one wanted to access CDDB, one was not allowed to access any other CDDB-like database (such as freedb), and any programs using a CDDB lookup had to display a CDDB logo while performing the lookup.In March 2001, CDDB, now owned by Gracenote, banned all unlicensed applications from accessing their database. New licenses for CDDB1 (the original version of CDDB) were no longer available, since Gracenote wanted to force programmers to switch to CDDB2 (a new version incompatible with CDDB1 and hence with freedb).Quite apart from anything, it means Sony will now be able to see what's hot and what's not when it comes to CD ripping.Pity then that the stats for CD sales in the US show that CD sales aredown last yearby 17.5% (units) and 20.5% (value) - and down by 44% (value) from their all-time peak in 2000.So, when's the last time Gracenote didn't know your CD - or gave you more than one answer?
Hands on with Live MeshAt the Web 2.0 conference, Microsoft is launching Live Mesh, which lets you connect all your computers (work, home, laptop etc) in your own Mesh and then use them remotely. Each computer appears as a Mesh folder on your desktop, and you connect to them via a browser. Any data you put in a Mesh folder (on your Mesh desktop) is automatically synchronised across all your machines, including a "virtual device" in the cloud that you can access from anywhere. You can add other users to a Mesh folder, to share data, by sending them a link in an email. At the moment, there's a 5GB limit on what you can store in the cloud.This is a Live service so you can expect it to work with other Live suite services, including the Live ID sign-on, formerly Passport, Live Mail and Microsoft Connect. It's not just SkyDrive.At the moment it's Windows only, but Mac and mobile phone Mesh software is being developed.There's a tech preview at theMesh.comsite, and a 25-minuteHands on with Live Meshat Microsoft's consumer-orientedOn 10site (above).Since this is Microsoft, it's a platform, which means they want everyone else to build applications on top of it: it's not just file sync. There are two videos for programmers on Microsoft's Channel 9 site:Ray Ozzie: Introducing Live MeshwithJohn Udell, andCharles Torre talks to Abolade Gbadegesin about the Live Mesh Architecture. Gbadegesin is the software architect.The service is based onFeedSync, which "describes how to synchronize data through Atom and RSS feeds". Since this is Microsoft, obviously it has ablog. However, the main blog is the Live Mesh blog, where Amit Mital has postedIntroducing Live Mesh.There's a Microsoft slide below, taken fromTen things to know about Microsoft's Live Mesh.
"The game is in production and in trucks en route to retailers," said Ben Feder, CEO of Take Two when talking GTA IV to shareholders. So assuming stores have begun to receive copies of the hugely anticipated game can we expect retail to stick to next Tuesday's official release date? Or will copies start sneaking out over the weekend? Anyone here managed to pick up an early copy yet? Do tell.
MIT's Walter Bender has walked away from the One Laptop Per Child project, where he was formerly president of software and content.He wrote:After more than two years without a break at One Laptop per Child, I have decided to take some time to reflect on how I can best contribute going forward to the goal of giving children around the world opportunities for a quality learning experience. The OLPC Association is making headway getting laptops into the hands of children and it is encouraging to see that other non-profit and for-profit organizations are following suit.According toWired's Gadget blog:Mary Lou Jepsen, OLPC's former CTO, left in early January, shortly before Intel announced it too would be dropping out of the project to work on its own low-cost laptop, the Classmate. Jepsen is credited with developing the XO laptop's low-power display, and she left to start her own for-profit company that aims to commercialize the same technology.One month later, OLPC's Director of Security Ivan Krstić resigned after finding that he could not "subscribe to the organization's new aims or structure."The OLPC's Linux-based laptop hasn't been as successful as was hoped, and Nicholas Negroponte told Business Week last month that the company waslooking for a CEO.He said the company needed to operate less "like a terrorist group" and "more like Microsoft."
Podcast time! Lend us your ears for 30 minutes and we'll give them back clean (mostly). A hacker turned digital security pro gives Kevin Anderson the insider's view on the shortcomings of all personal technology, and campaigners No To ID No2ID discuss their concerns about a database state with Jemima Kiss. Plus news from all around - including the fabulously elusive Psystar.But who won the coveted comment of the week for the Gamesblog, Technology blog and PDA blog?·The podcast feed URL·Subscribe free to Tech Weekly via iTunes·Visit our Facebook group·The Tech Weekly archives
Er, what's wrong with XP, exactly? Well, according tomy esteemed colleague, enjoying his little bit of outrage:The software has a fancy new interface, with snazzier colours and all kinds of ingenious shortcuts and bundled software for playing movies, MP3 files and streaming audio and video -- in a flagrant repetition of the aggressive software-bundling behaviour that landed the company with an anti-trust suit.An operating system that can play an MP3 file? How outrageous! But it gets worse:Windows XP is a monstrous, bloated brute that requires a state-of-the- art PC and two gigabytes of hard disk space before it will even say 'hello'. This means any consumer foolish enough to want to run XP will probably have to buy a new PC.At a time when sales have stagnated, this is great news for the hard-pressed computer industry. So trebles all round for the suits in PC World, Currys and the like?Er, possibly not. For one thing, XP is being launched into a world now sinking into recession, which means corporate IT managers may not take kindly to the notion of having to order hundreds of new PCs simply to run a version of Excel with cooler graphics when their users are perfectly happy with the old, uncool version.I was going to cheat and replace the references to XP in 2001 with references to Vista, or I could probably have done the same thing with similar anti-Microsoft screeds about the evil horrors of Windows 2000 or Windows 95 or whatever, all of which were designed to destroy civilisation as we know it. DOS sometimes got similar treatment, of course, and somewhere there's probably an angry tirade about an improved version of the abacus.The names change, but the song remains the same.Please drop by in 2012 for the sequel about how Windows 7 is a bloated monstrous imposition, and nobody needs it because everybody reallylurvestheir wonderful Vista.
Just met in person, finally,Alex Eckelberryof Sunbelt Software (no, that's not him in the cartoon - it'll become clear why that's there later). He's in the UK for the InfoSec conference. In between discussing the state of Russian hackerdom - and why Russian opposition politicians can't have web pages inside Russia (rivals hire some hackers who will DOS it in a heartbeat), he noted the really big risk that some people - well, guys, really - are running by downloading porn from peer-to-peer networks.Eckelberry explained that Sunbelt has a legal group - theJulie Group- set up while trying to get justice forJulie Amero, a teacher who was accused of showing off porn to a classrom when in fact the machine she was using was infected with malware. (Theysucceeded: the conviction was quashed, and then no case was presented.) As a result, the group had an influx of requests to help them with legal cases.Which led to loads of people saying they'd been caught with child pornography on their computers, but that they'd not done it, honest.Many of those were discounted. But one case, involving a 19-year-old who'd been using Limewire (a front-end to connect to Gnutella networks), intrigued Eckelberry. We'll let him take up the story:"He had this fetish, OK, for pictures of girls with large bottoms." (Get the cartoon connection now?) "So he went onto Limewire, found this zip file which said that's what it's got, downloads it, zap. Unzips it, lots of pictures of girls with large bottoms, but also some really gruesome child porn pics. He isn't interested in those so he just ignores them."(A reminder: in the US as in the UK, it's an offence to possess child pornography on your computer. Doesn't matter if you look at it or not. Doesn't matter if it's giant or minuscule.)"But here's the problem. The FBI is out there tracking who's downloading these files. It can see who's getting them, what their IP address is, and it asks the ISP for the details, the ISP has to hand them over, and the FBI is at your door."That's not the worst of it though. Because you're on a P2P network, you're not only in possession - you're also now adistributorof this stuff. And the legal sanctions for distributing child porn are really heavy." (They carry tariffs of 15 years each. That's per piece of porn, and it's one of those deals where you don't get a discount for volume.)Eckelberry shakes his head, because the case is unanswerable: the FBI has got their man on both counts, and there's no justifiable way to get out of it. You didn't look at them? Doesn't matter - the zip file was being uploaded back from your machine onto Gnutella.His solution? Simple: don't get your pr0n from P2P networks. Or, as he puts it: "if you want some porn, just go down to your local video store and hire some. It's safe and you won't get picked up for it. P2P networks are dangerous for this stuff."The unanswered question: assuming the 19-year-old is telling the truth (which seems, at a first pass, possible), who put the child porn pictures into the zip file of unrelated pictures? Scary times.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
DigiTimes in Taiwanhas a report on Asus, also in Taiwan, that says: "Asustek Computer president Jerry Shen has revealed the company plans to launch Eee PCs based on Intel's Atom processor platform in June, and will introduce models with a 10-inch display later in 2008."The report then looks at local sales of Intel's newlow-cost Atom processor, which is aimed at the internet devices market. It says:Asustek is believed to have ordered 2.5-3 million Atom processors from Intel, while Acer has ordered around one million and may place another one million unit order depending on market demand for corresponding low-cost PCs in the later half of the year, according to industry sources. Meanwhile, Dell has been more conservative in only ordering around 300,000-500,000 Atom CPUs, while previous reports indicate Hewlett-Packard (HP) has placed an initial order for 100,000 VIA Technologies C7-M ULV CPUs to be used in its Mini-Note products, which will increase to 500,000 units by year's end. Other players including Micro-Star International (MSI) and Gigabyte Technology are even more conservative, ordering far lower volumes than their competitors, according market watchers.There's also a bit of news on sales of the Eee PC, and why you may not be able to buy one:Eee PC demand is highest in Europe accounting for 50% of worldwide demand, However, due to the current battery shortages the company is only able to satisfy 40% of demand in Europe and around 30% in total worldwide, revealed Shen, adding that a complete recovery is expected by the third quarter.
Sophos, the anti-malware company, has just published its latest quarterly security report (PDF), and says:From January to the end of March 2008, Sophos identified an average of more than 15,000 newly infected webpages each day. Most worrying for computer users, is the fact that the majority of these poisoned sites -- 79 percent -- are found on legitimate websites that have been hacked. February saw the website of UK broadcaster ITV fall victim to a poisoned web advert campaign which targeted both Windows and Mac users, while in March a Euro 2008 football ticket website was hacked by cybercriminals in an attempt to infect unwary fans. In contrast, just one in every 2500 emails is now infected, compared to one in every 909 in 2007.What's also new is that the number of threats hosted in the US jumped to 42% while the number hosted in China tumbled to only 30%, putting the US on top in the race to infect users' machines. (I seem to recall that one excuse for China's position was the amount of out-of-date and unpatched pirate software. What's the US's excuse?)"About 1 percent of web requests now deliver an infected page, most of which are legitimate websites belonging to people just trying to earn a living," says Carole Theriault, senior security consultant at Sophos.
Everyone knows it's hugely successful, everyone understands it has brought a new audience to games (or at least to gameconsoles- handheld platforms and online casual gaming have been pulling in families, old people and middle-aged women foryears), but there still seems to be a bit of confusion around about what Wii is and how to create a strong software market for Nintendo's oddity.The New York Timesran a pieceyesterday about how Wii gamers don't buy that many games. Sure, hardly groundbreaking stuff - we know that the console basically survives on its big in-house titles, and we know that third-party devs have had trouble producing compelling games (seeherefor the latest article on the subject).However, the writer points out that even the big-hitters aren't pulling in the numbers. Super Smash Brothers, shifted 1.4 million copies in its first week in the States, but then sales dropped 90% over the following month. Zack &amp; Wiki and No More Heroes have also failed to make much of a dent on the charts.Partly this is about 'casual' gamers not having the same urgent need to keep buying games. Lazard Capital analyst, Colin Sebastian, told the NYT:You don't see a lot of titles that reach 30 to 40 percent of the installed base. My in-laws in Texas have a Wii sitting on their living-room floor next to the TV, which to me is kind of amazing. They have Wii Sports, a Brain Age game, Wii Play. That's about it.But pundits are also placing some of the blame on poorly focused marketing:Game makers have yet to embrace unconventional advertising methods that can reach this broader audience. Nintendo did it by promoting its memory game Brain Age on the radio.It's funny, but now that the games industry has made contact with this strange alien race of non-hardcore gamers, they're not really sure how to talk to them. Not everyone can afford to hire Nicole Kidman to pretend to enjoy their games on prime time TV slots - indeed, that approach might betoosophisticated for a lot of the new user base.I mean, why is it always assumed that you must gosuper upmarketto capture a non-specialist audience? As a freelancer, I accidentally watch quite a bit of daytime TV, yet during ad breaks, I rarely see Wii games touting for business amid the stream of debt consolidation shysters. Why not? Not all Wii owners read Vogue.Of course, it's debatable whether filling the airwaves with ads would make much difference - the underlying problem is, Wii owners just don't buy that many games, and probably never will. I liked what Mike Capps, president of Epic Games, recentlysaidabout the popularity of the console. He referred to it as a viral phenomenon:It's a virus where you buy it and you play it with your friends. So you stop playing it after two months, but they buy it and they stop playing it after two months but they've showed it to someone else who then go out and buy it and so on.This reminds me of what Brian Hastings of Insomniac said about Wii in his polemical blog post,Ten Reasons Why PS3 Will Win This Generation:Your friend Reggie invites you over for a Wii Party. It's awesome. You and your friends partake in whatever beverages are legally appropriate for your age group. The next day everyone who went to the party rushes out and buys a Wii. A week later Reggie hosts another Wii Party. This time only half the group comes. It's still fun, but there isn't quite as much shoving to get at the Wiimote.The next week Reggie hosts another Wii Party. You tell him you have bird flu.Of course, both Brian and Mike are from the US school of hardcore gritty shooters, and Brian's insistence that Wii was a fad is now looking extremely dated. But they may have a point about the console's transitory appeal - plus, their ambivalence speaks volumes about how the industry is confused and factional in its relationship to the machine.Almost everyone wants to love Wii, they're just not sure how. And this industry isn't geared up for complicated love affairs - at least not in the west, where development infrastructures are very much tuned toward working on advanced 3D engines and then exploiting them with various boys own adventures.I may be partisan, but I reckon mobile developers are going to rise up and steal the Wii third-party market away. They're used to dealing with an entirely unpredictable audience, they're used to creating the sort of bizarre lifestyle/puzzle franchises that casual gamers gulp up in their millions; and mobile companies don't have any qualms about advertising in 'low brow' places like the backs of magazines alongside adult chat lines (heck, most of themwriteadult games).That's my prediction. And that's probably why I'm not a highly paid marketing analyst, dishing out stat-packed reports on the nature of Wii.
Hello and welcome to another burst of technology news on Tech Weekly.Aleks Krotoskiis in the presenter's chair as always, and she's joined byCharles ArthurandJemima Kissto slice and dice the tech world.This week we're addressing the scary realities of a digital world.Kevin Andersonspeaks to John Safa, CEO of security firmDrive Sentry. The hacker turned-digital security pro gives us an insider's view of the security shortcomings of all personal technology – from computers to phones – even digital picture frames.We also talk to civil rights campaignersNO2IDabout their concerns with the database state. The UK government wants to create a national ID programme to protect the population from external threats, and yet their record for holding onto our private data has hardly been spectacular.There's also news ofGoogle's profits, theprice of the iPhone, theclosure of the BBC's ISP Beeb.net, anda mysterious Miami-based firm called Psystarthat is offering to sell Mac clones running OS X – butCharles is having problems tracking them down ...All that, plus your comments fromthe blog, ourSkype voicemail, andour inbox.Next week:Games week.• Tell us what you think attech@guardian.co.uk•Post a message on the blog about this week's programme...•Join our Facebook group
The resurgence of interest inthe gamesblog's Wikigame projecthas prompted a flood of Interactive Fiction links into the our inbox, includingthis superb onefromPhilWalMichaelBruntonSpallabout the development (and ultimately the demise) of thesequelto the classicHitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, Milliways: the Restaurant at the End of the Universe.From the article:A sequel seemed like such a sure thing, they mentioned it in the game's ending. In the final scene, the Heart of Gold sets down on Magrathea and you exit the ship. "Slowly, nervously, you step downwards, the cold thin air rasping in your lungs. You set one single foot on the ancient dust -- and almost instantly the most incredible adventure starts which you'll have to buy the next game to find out about." ... But by May 1985, it seems like Adams lost interest. "In light of my discussions with Douglas yesterday and this afternoon at lunch, I cannot imagine finishing this game for 1985," wrote Marc Blank, Infocom's co-founder. "Douglas' attitude seems to be less than I require in order to do a collaboration."The rest of the post is an incredible walk through the politics of game development. A must-read. Props to Andy Baio @ Waxy.org for the reportage.
A few months ago, I sent off some questions to Mike Acton, Engine Director at Insomniac, the developer behind Resistance: Fall of Man, as well as the Ratchet and Clank series. Mired, no doubt, in the development of Resistance 2, it took a while for him to get back to me - but it was worth the wait.Here, Mike gives us a singular insight into working with PS3. I was interested in finding out about the 'craft' of 3D engine development on modern consoles - about how much of what we see on screen is about the hardware itself and how much is down to the engine coders. He ably explains...Can you tell us when you started work on the current Insomnia engine and what your ambitions were? Was it a brand new project or did you take elements from previous technologies?The principal ambition of both our engine and tools is to empower our gameplay and content teams. The goal of the engine, in particular, is to leverage as much of the available hardware as we can toward the things that are most valuable to the game and, ultimately, the player. The goal of the tools team, though, is minimizing the iteration time required to make additions or changes to the games while allowing the content teams to maximize the features in the engine. In other words: The engine is about making better, faster stuff while the tools are about making better stuff faster. Along with the engine, the tools we're now using are radically different from what we used for the previous generation.Insomniac's PlayStation 3 engine was a completely new effort from the start. The team understood that the techniques that worked on previous systems weren't going to continue to be as effective on this generation of hardware. So everyone took a step back and tried to create something much better suited to the PS3 (and the Cell), specifically. Sure, there were missteps and bumps along the way, but ultimately we were able to make a great game that looked good and ran at a rock-solid framerate for the PS3's launch.In what ways has the engine evolved since Resistance 1? There was a lot of talk about streaming textures at the time... What elements have you added since that game and what have you learned?The engine is constantly changing. It's continually being upgraded and simplified, while we add new features and remove less useful ones. A sign of any maturing technology is that it becomes simpler rather than more complex. And as we work on our third-generation PS3 title, this is what we're starting to see. We've tried several approaches for different features and we're now definitely seeing a convergence of the ideas that have worked out well. For example, the physics, animation, glass, inverse kinetics, effects, and geometry database systems (just to start with) are now less complicated, thus offering more and significantly faster features than the versions found in Resistance 1.We've also solidified some design patterns that are simplifying things. Take SPU Shaders, for example, which we discuss in detail on our newly establishedR&amp;D site. SPU Shaders helped to make the big systems and all the little changes that come along during development a lot more practical to implement. They've also helped shed some light on programming the SPUs. Just having the ability to start putting high-level logic and AI on the SPUs was a major milestone that validated a lot of our ideas on how to distribute that type of work. This isn't to say that we have fewer challenges with each new generation of game--we just have all-new, even better and more streamlined challenges!This may sound like a daft question, but in what fundamental ways do engines differ? What are the intrinsic differences between your engine and, say, Unreal Engine 3? Are there different programming philosophies at work?Engines can differ in a multitude of ways: performance, supported features, specific techniques, algorithms used, etc. But I think what you're asking is more about the under-the-hood stuff; how engines are put together.One topic we discussed at this year's Game Developers Conference was what we called the"Three Big Lies of Software Development". How much programmers buy into these "lies" has a pretty profound effect on the design and performance of an engine, or any high-performance embedded system for that matter.Engine programmers can take two approaches when it comes to console hardware: hide it or highlight it. We definitely prefer to highlight the hardware, as it's much better in the long run to understand any of its issues or quirks. A good understanding of the hardware influences your data design decisions and coding choices, and it's also good practice. An understanding of one architecture will improve your ability to understand the next. It's a virtuous cycle of learning and improvement.Some developers choose the dark side: they hide it, keeping the details away from other programmers by trying to "abstract" it. There's certainly some value in this when used in moderation, but most of the time it's overdone. Too much is hidden. This forces programmers to spend as much time learning this abstract system as they would have just learning the hardware in the first place. Then because they don't have a good understanding of the hardware, data design and algorithm choices are not well-informed. This leads to the next cycle of hardware being even harder to understand since they haven't thought about those types of details in possibly years! It becomes a nasty cycle of poorly informed choices and missed learning opportunities.Most engines also have signature features. The "long view" has always been one for Insomniac's engines. For example, in the first Spyro the Dragon for PlayStation 1, the player could see huge distances into the level, which at the time contrasted with the fog soup so commonly seen in other games. That's something we've continued to focus on. Take Ratchet &amp; Clank Future: Tools of Destruction for the PS3: The game had some amazing vistas that I think players appreciated and helped set the game apart.You can't forget about your audience, either. Who is the engine designed for? Is it more for the programmers who will use it or for the players that will want the most out of it? This requires a delicate balance. We certainly don't want to make the engine more difficult for the programmers to use for no reason, but there's often a compelling reason to make things different because it means more (or better) stuff for the player.I'm sure this decision is complicated if you license your engine since the licensees will most certainly always want it to be easier. But even when you don't, there are time and resource constraints (especially if you're releasing a game once a year) to consider... and it's always a consideration. I don't think there's a definitive answer for this one - you just have to communicate with everyone involved and try to make the best decision you can.When I've spoken to programmers in the past, they've tended to be most excited about the platforms that have allowed them to program 'to the metal' - i.e. to get access to the fundaments of the hardware, rather than rely on libraries and APIs. Where does PS3 rank in this respect?Let me start with some background on why programmers want to get 'to the metal' when it comes to console engines. A console is a fixed platform; it's the fundamental distinguishing factor between it and a PC. A console has strict fixed resources (hard disk or not, how much memory is available, etc).But - and this is the big one - a player's expectations are not fixed. Each year and with each new game, players want more. More details. More effects. Better graphics. Better sound. Better AI. What this means is that with each generation of game, there's a lot of pressure for developers to push the bar and do more. To do this, those developers need to know that - with a little more time and effort - there's still power waiting for them to take advantage of.That's definitely the case with the PlayStation 3. On the CPU-side, you've got the SPUs and no real software "roadblocks" that inhibit a developer from squeezing out extra work. They're very open, well-documented, and we have access to pretty much everything they can do on any level. So I'd rate it very high in that regard.Are you able to 'cheat' the system at all, perhaps by using memory allocations that you're not supposed to, storing data away in areas of the CPU meant for other stuff, jamming the SPEs with lots of tasks, etc?I'm inclined to say that there's no such thing as "cheating" when you're talking about developing on a console. It's all a cheat. You want believable images, sound and AI without developing a "real-life simulator". That is not only impossible, but I'm quite sure it wouldn't run at an interactive framerate.There's no "supposed to" to compare against. We have a fixed platform, and except for a few rules laid out in Sony's Technical Requirements Checklist (TRC), it's all fair.Have you had any moments of epiphany with the PS3 hardware - a moment where you've suddenly thought 'hey, I get it' and suddenly opened up a whole new avenue of power/possibility? Can you explain it in lots of technical detail ; )As I said earlier, the more time you spend with a maturing technology, things only become simpler. In preparation forour GDC presentationthis year, I asked some of our programmers what was the thing that really "clicked" for them as they've learned to work with the Cell. Off the top of my head, the main responses were:Think in streams of data:Do similar things together.Remember that local memory is really fast:Classically, you want to avoid algorithms that have heavy memory access. That's still true in general, just not on the SPUs themselves.Forget about conventional Object-Oriented Programming:It's not so much that OOP is bad in and of itself, but the way it's taught and applied typically causes numerous and completely pointless difficulties when it comes to optimising data and code.Generally, in what ways has working with the PS3 technology become easier since Resistance? What graphical/special effects/performance elements have you been able to improve?As with every console generation, ease comes from better understanding the hardware. We've also become much better at teaching others at Insomniac how to work with the hardware, which in turn makes for a more efficient development process. And we're certainly not the only ones. So what does this all mean for the player? With each passing year they'll receive better-looking characters, bigger environments, and much more from their PS3 games.Resistance and R&amp;C are very different games, not just in terms of basic gameplay, but also visual style and mood. Do elements such as mood, atmosphere and story, effect the underlying engine at all? Do you have to tweak anything when transferring tech from a serious dark shooter to a lighter experience?The majority of the engine's components work for both Resistance and Ratchet titles. The credit really belongs to the hardworking art staff here at Insomniac. They know how to take the components that we have and bend them to their collective will to achieve whatever look is desired.So what are you doing with the engine now? What sort of refinements can we expect in your future games? Are there any new breakthroughs you're excited about?Obviously, we're making some changes to our engine so that Resistance 2 looks and runs even better than our two previous PS3 titles. We're not ready to talk any specifics just yet, but trust me--you'll definitely notice these improvements when you play the game.What do you feel are the key tricks and visual effects of the next-gen era? People went crazy for high-dynamic range lighting at the start, and rich, multi-layered texture effects seem popular... what should we look out for in the near future?Undoubtedly, we'll continue to see the advancement of procedural content. Although everyone's been predicting the rise of procedural content for years, we're starting to see the limits on how much handcrafted custom geometry and texture work can be reasonably done in the time it takes to make a game. Also, techniques for making a lot more of the unique audio and visual content that players are demanding will certainly be a large part of the very near future.In general, of course, those of us who work in real-time audio and visual effects can always look to the industries (like film) that can spend many hours rendering a frame for what kind of effects we should target in the future. Whether it's the non-realistic, yet extremely detailed look of something like Ratatouille or something similar to the characters in I am Legend, there's a great deal of technology that just isn't possible to do in real-time yet. But we'll continue to look for the hacks, cheats and fakes that get us as close as possible. Beyond that, it's very hard to predict what will be "the next big thing" in audio and visual tech. Developers will continue to play around with ideas until we find the ones that stick.How 'artistic' do you think engine creation is? Are you always aiming 'just' for objective photo-realism and physical authenticity, or do you build in a specific Insomniac aesthetic?Photorealism is not our objective, and we certainly don't build tech just for the sake of doing it here at Insomniac. If we did, I don't think the studio would've been able to sustain the rate of making top-quality games almost every year for the last 14 years, which is a feat not many other independent studios can match. What we want to achieve is believability, within (and right up to the limit of) the capabilities of the hardware. Our real goal is to develop an engine that can help a gamer believe in the world imagined by our art and creative directors.Certainly, though, the engine development process itself is absolutely an artistic, creative process. It's work that requires puzzle solving, artistic judgment, applied math and science, as well as a strong will and a resilience to change.Do you see a point in the near-future where you going to have to radically re-think the way you approach videogame development? Is there an event horizon that's going to require a real shift in the way dev teams work with hardware?It just happened over the last two or three years with the launch of the new consoles. It happened again 10 or so years before that with a big shift to 3D. Development is always going to radically change with the introduction of new consoles, not to mention the expectations of the players. And those seem to change even faster than the hardware.
Microsoft says it hasreleased Windows XP Service Pack 3 (SP3)to manufacturing (RTM) so PC manufacturers can start shipping it with new machines, when they're ready.It will be released to the web on April 29, via Windows Update and the Microsoft Download Center. Users who want it will be able to go and get it. It will be switched to automatic distribution for home users "in early summer".SP3 has been through a public beta test, but Microsoft will monitor forums to find out if any tweaks need to be added for easy installation.SP3 includes fixes created since the release of SP2 three years ago. It also has some new security enhancements, but doesn't make any noticeable interface changes. SP3 is for 32-bit versions of Windows only.
Several readers showed an interest in my post about Swedish indie developer,Cactus, and their new game, Ad Nauseam 2. So I thought I'd fire off a few questions to the team... which is actually solo coder, Jonatan Söderström. Based in Gothenburg, the 22-year-old bashes out brash, innovative shooters in his spare time, while working as a game designer for indie studio,Lo-Fi Minds. Here's what he has to say about making games in 24 hours... and about Swedish culture...How long have you been writing games?I think I started in 2003 or 2004, mostly just throwing little games together out of boredom. It wasn't until last year that I started taking it seriously. Now I spend a few hours with it basically every day.How long does each project take?So far they've been reasonably small. Most of them are one day projects completed within twenty four hours, but some have lasted for upto a few months in development time. I usually do a significant portion of the game the first day, so that I can see the results and get motivated to work more on it, or simply finish it up.And you do all the work yourself...Yes, all my finished games so far have been solo projects as far as game design goes. I do borrow music from composers who put their songs online, but that's because I lack skill in that particular area. I tried to make music for my games at first, and some of the games on my site actually do feature songs that I composed, but they're by far the worst tunes of the lot. I've also attempted to collaborate a few times, but whenever there's been two creative visions trying to merge, it has always failed. The collaboration that did work out was when alillm ofVarstudiosconverted one of my games to Flash, which he basically did all on his own. Also, I've had some help with graphics in two of my games.What are your key influences when you start out on a project?I've been influenced by many things. I find a lot of movies to be very inspiring. For instance, David Lynch's movies inspired one of my games called Mondo Medicals and its sequel, Mondo Agency. Other games can also be a source of inspiration. jph_wachesky ofIteration Gameshas a unique and interesting take on games, and there was a developer that was active a few years ago that created a few short and surreal adventure games that went under the namesLa La Land1-5 (the first one is crap, though). These really felt like something fresh and new to me when I played them, and taught me that you could make interesting visuals with very simple means.I've also been quite inspired by Japanese shoot 'em ups.Warning Foreverin particular. I've played quite a few commercial games that I've really liked as well, but they're usually not as inspiring, mainly because you know that you'll never beat them at what they do, so it's not really worth bothering to even try.What attracts you to the shoot-'em-up genre?The good thing is there's a lot of freedom to what you can do. The only requirements are something to shoot with, something to avoid and something to shoot at. Aside from those three elements, you are left with only your own imagination to set the boundaries to what kind of crazy things will happen in the game./b&gt; I honestly have no idea. If you look at Swedish movies for instance, Sweden is pretty good at producing crap. I can't think of more than four or five good Swedish movies that I've seen in my entire life. Swedish comics and books are in general also very bland. So I'm really surprised that there actually are a lot of cool games being made ihere. As for other Scandinavian countries, I haven't got much of a clue, except that there are quite a lot of great chiptunes being made in most of our countries.Which developers do you admire? I wouldn't exactly use the word admire about anyone, but aside from those I mentioned as influences, I really likeJonathan BlowandJonathan Mak(and it's not just because we almost share the same name). Blow seems very intellectual and I've listened to a few of his lectures which were very interesting. His game Braid looks really amazing, and its concept is definitely something only a very imaginative mind could come up with.As for Jonathan Mak, I really like his "no bullshit" attitude and Everyday Shooter has some amazing graphics. Also,Messhofand Japanese developerIkikihave made some incredibly fun games that I've had some really good times with.Have you thought about developing for Xbox Live Arcade, PlayStation Network or Virtual Console?Yes, I've thought about it a lot, and it would be fun to get to play one of my own games on a console. Hopefully I'll get the chance to do something like that eventually with Lo-Fi Minds.Any advice for would-be indie developers?Depends on what kinds of games they want to create. I've been usingGame Makerto make all my games so far, and that runs on all modern PCs. It's only $20, I think. Not a very risky investment, and pretty easy to learn.What are you working on at the moment?Right now, I'm mostly working on a game called Brain-Damaged Toon Underworld (pictured) which without a doubt is my most ambitious project so far. It's a bit of a spriritual sequel to another game I made called Psychosmnium, except with a lot higher production values. It's about a little creature who finds himself trapped in a strange and unpleasant world, trying to find a way out of it. I'm pretty excited about it.
The news this morning was stuffed with reports on the success of Britain's hi-tech anti-paedophile squad, theChild Exploitation and Online Protectioncentre: "Increase in sex offender arrests",said the BBC, while Radio 5 Live even broadcast from Ceop's headquartersthis morning.I've written about Ceop in thepast, and a while ago I visited their digs to see what goes on behind the scenes. Clearly it's a highly valuable policing service that aims to safeguard some of the most vulnerable members of society, and we applaud that any scheme which saves children from abuse - 131 children saved in a year is a laudable number, how ever you look at it.But something struck me as a little fuzzy about the figures: 297 arrests, they said. Well, that's fine - but we all know thatarrestsare not the same asconvictions. So how many people have actually been charged or investigated as a result of Ceop's work?That information wasn't so forthcoming. When I spoke to Ceop this afternoon, a spokesman said that the organisation didn't actually know how many of those arrests had resulted in legal action. He said that this was because Ceop worked in conjunction with a wide range of local and international forces, and it didn't keep track of how cases had progressed. "These cases by their nature take a long time to come to court," he said.That's a fair point, of course, because putting together the evidence in a child abuse case is a painstaking process - especially when it involves computer forensics.But history shows us that it pays to be sceptical here: after all, Operation Ore - the biggest internet paedophile investigation in history - wasn't everything it appeared to be. Lots of people who were investigated as part of Orewere actually victims of fraud, as we reported almost precisely a year ago. Here were people who had their credit card numbers stolen, but were victimised because the thieves used it to buy access to child abuse websites.Ceop undoubtedly does a lot of good work, and I have a great deal of respect for the investigators who work there. But if we're talking numbers, we need to make sure we're working with the right ones: there's too much at stake.·This article originally stated 'Lots of people who were convicted as part of Ore were actually victims of fraud, as we reported almost a year ago.' This has been amended following a complaint that we received from the CEOP stating that none of the 2450 people convicted in the UK as a result of Operation Ore have had their convictions overturned on the basis that those convicted were victims of credit card fraud.
BBC World Service is linking up with Russia's biggest blogging platform as it attempts to increase its audience base in the face of media restrictions.The BBC service is now only available on medium-wave radio in Russia after all three of the country's FM broadcasters dropped it.From today the BBC will invite the nine million Russian users of blogging platformLiveJournalto contribute local news stories and join discussions on BBC News.LiveJournal is hosting a new channel, LiveReport, which will be linked to the Russian version of the World Service site,bbcrussian.com.LiveJournal counts Downing Street communications adviser Benjamin Wegg-Prosser as its marketing research director and earlier this month appointed ITV.com's managing director Annelies Van Den Belt to be its new general manager in Russia.By partnering with LiveJournal, the BBC can promote its content to an active and established community, rather than attempting to build one from scratch.Inviting users to submit stories to an external site also allows the BBC to use the site as a newsgathering tool without publishing stories under the BBC's brand, although the best stories will be published on bbcrussian.com.Zoya Trunova, editor of bbcrussian.com, said the partnership will give the BBC access to personal views and witness reports from across Russia."We are embracing a new community of bloggers who, in their turn, will have a chance to engage with the BBC," she said. "We hope their contributions will bring us news and insights that are often bypassed by mainstream journalism."Bought by the Russian media firm SUP from California-based Six Apart in December, LiveJournal is a ubiquitous tool for Russia's online community, and around 30 national media organisations use the service to add social media tools to their sites.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Monday's Chatterbox
In the old days, it was common to add an e- as in email, hence eBay, eGroups and eTrade. With the growth of the Internet, i became a popular prefix, particularly for hardware, with things like the Apple iMac, Compaq iPaq and the i-Opener. Today, according toThe New York Times:The Web is awash in sites that begin with that most personal of pronouns, and not simply MySpace. A few quick clicks will connect you to MyCoke, My IBM, My Subaru, MyAOL -- even MyClick, a mobile-phone marketing company. Collectively, they amount to a new world of Web sites designed to imply a one-on-one connection with a corporation or large business.The story says:The "my" prefix has become an easy and increasingly popular shorthand for suggesting that bond between consumers and corporations. Matthew Zook of ZookNIC, a business that analyzes domain names, said domains that start with "my" more than tripled between 2005 and 2008, to 712,000 from 217,000. According to the government's Patent and Trademark Office, the number of trademark applications to register marks that include the word "my" increased to 1,943 last year from 382 in 1998. Through March of this year, the number of applications has soared to 530.Jay Jurisich, creative director of Igor, a naming and branding company in San Francisco, suggests Microsoft may have played a part with its use of My Documents etc in Windows 95.So the big question is: What will become fashionable in the future?Mr Jurisich said he had toyed with "exo," as in "outside," but said no client went for it. Said Ms Zalis, "In the very near future, it's not going to be about 'my.' It'll be 'we.' It'll be the collective 'me,' whatever that is."Any suggestions?
One of the world's most exciting sporting events is now taking place in North America: the Stanley Cup finals of the National Hockey League. Ice hockey fans from all around the world are hittingNHL.comfor scores, hourly news updates, radio commentaries, game highlights and clips of the best goals.Ice hockey is a fast sport – the Nashville Predators just went from losing 2-1 to winning 3-2 in a record nine seconds – but the Stanley Cup is not known for quick knockouts, unless they're right hooks. Each match is decided over a best-of-seven series, so even a wipeout takes at least four games. Just the first round, which reduces 16 play-off teams to eight, could take more than 50 games.The scale of the event helps explain why the Stanley Cup does not get a lot of terrestrial TV coverage outside North America: it's not like devoting one evening to the Super Bowl. This lack of coverage drives overseas fans to NHL.com for news, though it must be admitted, there aren't too many of them.According to Alexa.com, 82% of NHL.com's visitors come from the US and Canada, with third-place Russia bringing in 3%.After that the numbers fall off dramatically. Scandinavia has plenty of ice hockey fans, but not many other countries like their sport on ice.Home or awayStill, NHL.com shows what a minority sport can do for its audience. For example, all the play-off games are streamed on NHL Game Radio, and you can choose whether to listen to the home or the away team's station. Sometimes there are three streams: you can listen to the Montreal Canadiens' games in French.Alternatively, you can follow games via summaries of the goals and penalties and an updated stats page, or a cryptic play-by-play account. However, casual visitors may not get much of a thrill from entries such as "MISS WSH #91 FEDOROV, Backhand, Wide of Net, Off. Zone, 21 ft."There's also a paid-for service, NHL Center Ice Online, which allows subscribers to watch up to four games at once. I assume this is the same as the cable TV offering.Fortunately there's also the freeNHL Network (NHL.tv), which offers a wide range of videos in Adobe Flash format. The options include The Hockey Show, game highlight packages, Studio 11 programmes and podcasts, plus archived NHL Radio and XM satellite broadcasts. There's also a huge player database, a comprehensive set of historical match reports, and tons of stats.Celebrity bloggersNHL.com is moving with the times, so there are a few celebrity bloggers in the fan section. These include film directors Kevin Smith (Mallrats etc) – he's a New Jersey Devils fan – and Vancouver Canucks supporter Jason Reitman (Juno).Sexy model, actress and singer Willa Fordis also blogging and is married to Dallas Stars forward Mike Modano, the top points-scoring US-born player.Fortunately, this doesn't mark a descent into Posh &amp; Becks-syle marketing. NHL.com is still a site for real fans. It's preaching to the converted, but it's doing it well.
It's fair to say I wasn't exactly counting down the seconds until the launch of theUefa Euro 2008game. And I'm guessing you were probably expecting what I was. Namely a lazy cash-in based around a now largely irrelevant - for England fans anyway - tournament. But in a shock bigger than Pompey and Cardiff getting to the Cup Final EA have produced an innovative soccer game that might well point towards the future of console football.There are two main reasons for this. The first is the Battle of the Nations mode, which kicks in as soon as you switch on the game. Simply choose your country, start playing and see your on and offline performances aggregated onto a daily leaderboard. More points are gained by beating the stronger teams, especially if you play as a weaker one. Come the end of the tournament (the end of June) the country with the most points gets virtual bragging rights. France and Spain were leading the way over the weekend with England, perhaps understandably, lagging lower down. Yes, it feels slightly gimmicky and obviously there is a time limit but it certainly gives more incentive to play.But the Captain Your Country mode is the most innovative pointer towards future footy game development. Here you play as one player rather than whole teams, with the aim of, you've guessed it, eventually captaining your country. Think FIFA 08's Be a Pro mode but over a full season and with RPG-style character development to add more depth. The on pitch action feels sharper too. Controlling one player is immensely satisfying as you time your runs and work the channels. Assists are easily as satisfying as scoring, and there is even some kind of gritty satisfaction from playing as a centre back. A particularly satisfying 2-1 England win against Germany did the impossible on Saturday afternoon - it momentarily took my mind off Southampton's disastrous home defeat to Burnley.So far so good then, but sadly there is a downer. And an important one too - namely the actual on-pitch action itself. It still isn't as fluid, intuitive and rewarding as Pro Evolution Soccer. There is still an ever-so-slight delay between button press and on-screen action. And the pace, while speedier than the glacial FIFA 08, still feels out. Ironically this slower pace makes controlling one player in the Captain Your Country mode feel easier and more realistic. And frankly the on-field gap between FIFA and PES has narrowed so much that the innovative - and lag free, if this weekend is anything to go by - online options might well swing it in FIFA's favour come '09.Forget Chelsea, Man Utd and the predictable and uncompetitive Premier League. This year's most interesting match-up will be between FIFA 09 and PES 2009. And at this stage it would be a brave punter who could pick a winner.
You can almost hear the sound of polar bears weeping.Hop-on, a California telecoms company, is marketing a &pound;10 disposable mobile phone in Europe. The phones have been available in drug store chains and convenience shops in the US since 2002. Now, according to Hop-on, European distributors have ordered 150,000.The throwaway phone is being promoted, variously, as a back-up to keep in the car glove compartment, as a way of monitoring your teenager's where-abouts (it has an internal tracking device), and, because there is no contract, as "an affordable option for the credit-challenged". People arriving in a new country could buy one and use it without running up expensive international call charges. (It is also an excellent choice for drug dealers, but Hop-on is not really selling it on that.)It could even be seen as a good environmental choice. It is pared down and functional, without an LCD screen, camera, MP3 player and all the other add-ons most modern phones are loaded with; and although it's disposable, it can be topped up with more minutes. The problem is that, at &pound;10, it is probably not built to last."It is not clear what this phone is made from and I haven't seen any kind of environmental policy from this company," says Zeina Alhajj, campaign coordinator for Greenpeace. "A &pound;10 mobile phone raises questions. You also have to wonder about the labour costs and transportation."Mobile phones contribute to huge mountains of e-waste (scrapped electronic goods), often dumped on China, India and Africa, releasing hazardous chemicals.The company says: "The environmentally conscious will be happy to know that the disposable phone is easily recycled."Which is all very well, but how can we ensure that they are?
We don't have room inprintfor all your letter and blog pingbacks, but do here. There was interest in Google's Street View, and Lord Erroll...STREET VIEWI was surprised by your comment (Our house, in the middle of Google's street, April 10) that 'under UK law, permission must be obtained before broadcasting images of private citizens'. A moment's thought suggests this cannot be so, or all broadcasters and newspaper websites are breaking the law every time they show a busy street, a football crowd, or a concert audience. In fact I believe I read somewhere (on a photographers' website) that this is a 'common misperception'. Could you confirm the true situation please? Hazel McGee, Guildford&gt;&gt; The Guardian rehashes the old privacy concerns in the article. It also claims that Street View costs between $125 and $700 per mile of video footage - which I think is probably an overestimation.virtualtourism.blogspot.comON A ROLL WITH ERROLLLord Erroll rightly highlights failures in tackling internet crime (One Lord Leaping, 10th April). His committee's call for a central cybercrime unit to handle low-level internet fraud is understandable but misplaced: There aren't central units for dealing with fraud committed door-to-door, by mail order or on a market stall .Instead each police officer is trained to deal with these commonplace crimes locally. The internet has given fraud and theft a new medium to exploit, the mechanics of which are little understood by many police officers, businesses and much of the public at large. A few hours of careful training for all police officers combined with the right tools and timely industry assistance would be far more effective than creating a new centralised bureaucracy. Daryl Kayes, Leeds&gt;&gt; He's in the Lords, not in the Government. The only person in the Government with first hand experience of database systems (though in the sense of having sold them to government in his business career, rather than having dealt with the geeky concerns of technical analysis and getting things to work) is Liam Byrne MP, who is an utter party loyalist and a true believer in Transformational Government.forum.no2id.netELEMENTARY?Kate Bevan in Technophile (10th April) might also have mentioned that the Amazon website says you need an Intel-based Mac to run Photoshop Elements, but the Adobe website says it is fine to run the software on an iMac G5. Another example of why more in-box documentation is needed. Warren Newman, LondonTINIER...If the whole point of Tinyurl is to reduce long web addresses to more manageable proportions why isn't the resulting prefix something like www.tu.com/. And now that we've all got the hang of it why not reduce www. to a single w. From there we could wander the rich pastures of .uk instead of uniquely in this wide world having to suffer the .co prefix. Rob Carthy, BromleyMORE TINCongratulations on the very interesting article on tin whiskers last week. You may be interested to hear of another phenomenon associated with the introduction of lead-free solders in electronics. This known as Tin Pest. Tin is a strange element: It is allotropic, changing its internal atomic arrangement according to the temperature. Above 13°C, it is known as β, or white, tin while at lower temperatures it exists as α, or grey, tin. Unfortunately, the transition temperature is quite likely to be encountered in service. This is more than mere scientific curiosity because the white version possesses acceptable mechanical properties whereas prolonged exposure at lower temperatures results in a brittle, fragile, material (grey tin) – quite incapable of providing the strength necessary for a joint. Because the new lead-free solders are quite dilute – consisting of more than 95% tin – an obvious question is 'Will these alloys be susceptible to tin pest formation and lead to subsequent interconnection failure?' The consequences of a control system failure could range from mere inconvenience to loss of life and prodigious costs (hundreds of millions of pounds in aerospace applications, for example). Considerable research into the allotropy of tin was carried out some 80 years ago. Tin pest was found to occur by a process of nucleation and growth, and was extremely slow – often requiring years to complete. Since the transition to grey tin involved a 27% increase in volume, its formation was restricted to the surface where there was less resistance from the surrounding material. Some alloy additions favoured the transition while others inhibited it, and it was never observed for periods up to ten years. Recently, tin pest has been reported in bulk samples of lead-free solder alloys (tin-copper, tin- silver and tin-silver-copper) following a few years exposure at -18°C, the usual freezer temperature. To date, it has not been observed on actual joints, and this may be due to the limited free surface available or the physical constraint provided by the components on the board, as compared with bulk samples. In addition, lead-free interconnections have been in service for a relatively short time. The figure shows various stages of tin pest development in a tin-0.5 copper alloy. Surface eruptions, or warts, gradually spread and eventually total disintegration of the massive sample is observed. This is due to the brittle nature of the grey tin and the large volume expansion that accompanies its formation. A critical feature of the experimental findings, both for pure tin many years ago and for the new lead-free solder alloys, is their inconsistency. Nominally identical specimens with the same thermal history commonly respond quite differently: one may display extensive tin pest while the other appears quite unaffected. This highlights the fact that we do not really understand the process and adds further confusion for the designers of electronic equipment. Although the effects of different alloy additions are known, it could well be that the presence, or absence, of certain impurities in tin are critically important. Development of the new lead-free solder alloys focused upon their properties and processing attributes. However, no consideration was given to the problems that may surround tin pest formation in service. Some leading practitioners have already dismissed this possibility, but the evidence is uncertain, and burying heads in sand does not constitute good engineering practice. Although we do not yet know whether it is necessary to shut the stable door, we should make more effort to understand and control tin pest formation. Only time will tell whether it represents a real problem in electronics – by then it could be too late! Professor Bill Plumbridge, Faculty of Technology, The Open University
Japan Probehas covered "an amazing new bicycle parking system that has opened at Kasai Station in Tokyo". The underground garage can apparently hold 9,400 bikes and, at the push of a button, the automated system can retrieve one in less than 30 seconds.An alternative (amateur?) video atYouTubesays a robot station can handle 180 bikes, so it would take three hours to fill and empty one silo, if each operation takes 30 seconds per bike. Better hope not everybody arrives during the rush-hour.....
Bit-tech.net hastaken apart its Asus PC900, with pictures. It says:The main PCB is pretty much identical as the Eee PC 700. The only thing new is that the mobile PCI-Express socket is now used [by] a 16GB SSD module expanding the drive space.There seems to be scope for integration and parts reduction....Earlier, the same site did anunboxing.
Smart ForTwo Cabriolet&pound;10,030Miles per gallon: 57.6Seats: 2Good for: sitting downBad for: standing outThey say that familiarity breeds contempt, and after five hours in a traffic jam on the rain-soaked M4 between London and Bristol, I despised almost everything in sight. The man in the plumber's van eating sandwiches. The woman in the Corsa who'd been fiddling with her hair in the rearview mirror for over an hour. I was annoyed with my husband Johnny, too, for only bringing four CDs, all of which we'd now played. To avoid argument, I concentrated on how much I hated DJ Steve Wright burbling on the radio instead. The car's sound system was so good, it sounded like he was in there with us. The swine.The only thing that didn't annoy me was the Smart ForTwo. Nothing makes you appreciate a car's design like five hours trapped inside it. And the seats were extraordinarily comfortable, with leg room to fidget in and drum my feet on the floor with boredom. The passenger seat was positioned 15cm further back than the driver's so Johnny could keep his distance. He was thankful for that. Even the boot was enough for our needs, holding a suitcase, suit-bag, two coats and three pairs of heels (we were en route to a wedding; I needed choice). And the ForTwo is so economical, with a petrol consumption of 85.7mpg, that I could have afforded to buy another pair of shoes to bring.The automated five-speed gears meant I had little to do other than sit and sulk, so as I'd read about the safety features - including the Superman-sounding Tridion cell reinforced with ultra-high-strength steel that framed the car - I passed the time by changing lanes and marvelling at the tiny gaps we could squeeze into. Though this 2007 model is larger than the original, it's still only 269.5cm long. So small that if I could get it through my front door, I could park it on my bed. Ridiculous.Of course, in the sizeist, macho world of motoring, ridicule is something the Smart car is used to taking on the bumper. The ForTwo won't change this, especially as it offers models in the season's key fashion colours. Ours was vivid gold, a take on the metallic trend. The panels are interchangeable so your car won't become (shock horror) pass&eacute;. Gimmicky, true, but I am a girl and I care what colour my car is, so fine by me. I'd like Smart to take it further and bring the new trends for ruffles and florals to the road ... sure, that's unreasonable, but I was bored. Johnny wasn't so sure about the gold. When we stopped in a service-station car park, he claimed some hoodies jeered at the ForTwo. I suggested that they may have been laughing at him, sat wearing aviator shades and a suit jacket.I had to admit when we reached our destination that he may have had a point. The ForTwo did stick out in a posh hotel car park full of BMWs and Jaguars. But in a way that made me smile at it fondly. Its aesthetic isn't for everyone, but I found it hard to look at a car that comfortable and efficient with anything but fondness. Despite how horribly familiar I'd become with the ForTwo that day, this had simply bred contentment.&middot;Martin Love returns next week&middot; This article was amended on Tuesday May 13 2008. A figure of 60.1 was given at the head of this article as the miles per gallon consumed by the Smart ForTwo cabriolet, but that figure is the mpg of the coupé model. More confusion arose when the figure appeared later as 85.7, an mpg close to the 85.9 mpg of the diesel version - which is not available in the UK. The correct figure we were searching for was 57.6 mpg. Sorry. This has been corrected.
Psystar created a stir by appearing to offera PC running Mac OS X for sale at $399.99. Forbes magazine'sBrian Caulfield reportsthat he has talked to Psystar president Rudy Pedraza on the phone, and Pedraza "insists Psystar is for real":"We're not out to steal anyone's money, we want to earn it," Pedraza says.However: "The company has been overwhelmed by demand." He adds:Still, Pedraza is short on the sorts of details most startups won't shut up about. He won't go on the record about his educational background, detail his professional history or name any previous ventures. The company's Open Computer is based on a machine put together by his brother (whom he won't name), he says. Nor will he say how the new computer works. He will say the company has 16 employees, and he just hired four more.MeanwhileCNet's Tom Krazitis in the process of buying a system. He says:Psystar said on its site. "Orders are being shipped in the order that they were received--don't worry; you'll get yours soon. Upon shipment, an e-mail notification, including tracking information, will be sent to you automatically." So we'll see if those orders start to come through. I ordered a Leopard Open Computer on Wednesday, and my credit card was charged on Saturday. I still haven't received a shipping notice yet.Larry Dignan over at ZDNet chips in with another story:Exclusive: Pictures of Psystar's corporate home; Clone maker's store is open. He says:A reader - an local IT guy in Miami - visited the last address for Psystar and verified two things: There's activity and inventory on the scene. There is a business there and he noted headquarters "isn't located in a shady part of town." But a lack of signage and the fact he couldn't get in doesn't provide a confirmation that Psystar is actually at the address.Is it a bird? Is it a plane? Is it really a cheap PC running Mac OS X? And if so, how will Apple try to close the company down? (The simplest way might be to take Mac OS X off the market. A bit like how Apple blocked the old Atari ST- and Amiga-based Mac-compatible cartridges.)If Apple doesn't act, there are plenty of 4-letter companies in the PC business who could easily roll out large volumes of the handhelds, subnotebooks, full-spec lightweight notebooks and cheap tower systems that Apple has spent a couple of decades failing to provide.Update: An IDG reporter tried to visit the company at 9am on Monday and says:Psystar Office Exists, but Not Yet Open to the Public
The average US user probably pays Microsoft about $1 a month for Windows, assuming they only get a new copy when they buy a new PC after an average four years. That's OK since the real money comes from enterprises, but still, Microsoft would much rather consumers paid $5 or $10 a month. And the way to do that is by selling a subscription service such asOneCare. That looks after three PCs for €50 a year.Having got OneCare going, Microsoft is now looking to the next step: an expanded version called Albany.Microsoft's Bryson Gordon says:"Albany" is the codename for a new all-in-one subscription service of essential software and services consumers told us were most important to them. We've pulled together the productivity tools people need to organize their lives, security to help keep their personal information safe and online services that make it easy for them to keep in touch with friends and family, and folded them all into a single service that also ensures the user's PC is running the latest security and productivity software. . With just a few clicks, "Albany" subscribers will be able install the whole package, which includes Microsoft Office Home and Student 2007, giving them the latest versions of Word, Excel, PowerPoint and OneNote for their personal and school projects; Windows Live OneCare to help keep viruses at bay and their computer fast and healthy; and Windows Live Mail, Messenger and Photo Gallery so they can connect and share with others. Albany also installs the Microsoft Office Live Workspace connector on the Microsoft Office toolbar, so users can save documents to their own dedicated online workspace and invite friends and classmates to collaborate and share. . Additionally, with "Albany" consumers get the latest versions of Microsoft Office Home and Student and Windows Live OneCare as they're released. Combined with ongoing security updates, consumers can have the peace of mind that they have protection from the most recent security threats and that their PC is running at its peak.There's no price quoted, but it will probably be pretty reasonable, since the Office Home edition is dead cheap and the other stuff is already free.
I'm a writer and have more empathy with paper than with Qwerty. Is there a gadget that will enable me to write on paper, which I can download to my PC and then save?Technologies linking your ordinary handwriting to digital files are still not mainstream, but they've been floating around for a while. The basic approach is to replace your pen, your paper or both with some whizzy technology. These can then be fed into a computer and scanned into digital text - though you may have to alter the way you write to get optimum results.The Pegasus Mobile NoteTaker and DigiMemo Pad (both around &pound;100) use special pens but let you write on normal notepaper. Scribble away, and they work out what you've written. Another option is Leapfrog's Fly pentop computer, which needs its own pen and paper but is pretty accurate. The bad news is that it seems impossible to buy in the UK, though you may be able to pick one up on eBay ($80 is a rough guide price).Regardless of the different methods, however, the real clincher here is the handwriting-recognition software that translates your scrawl into computer text - none of them is perfect and may take a fair bit of training, so it will pay to do some more reading up before picking one that suits.&#183;Email your problems togadget.clinic@guardian.co.uk
I am a technophobe of long-standing, at least one step and usually more behind the prevailing gadgetry. When others were starting to use the internet, I was tapping out my reports on a battered old portable typewriter. While they use broadband, I am still struggling with dial-up. My printer applies a censorship of its own, refusing to print out texts it disapproves of.Yet now I find myself at the cutting edge. There stands on my desk an intriguing box of tricks, theLaserKey CL850 Projection Keyboard(&pound;119.99, from Maplin), claiming to be a revolution in mobile input technology. It is a piece of oriental wizardry, being made in China by a company based in South Korea. The user's guide comes in English or Korean, and the English text is so dense and impenetrable that for all it means to me it might as well be in Korean. But the laser keyboard is a modern magic lantern.The main working part of it is a module, about the size of a mobile phone, emblazoned with the word Bluetooth, which I'm told inspires reverence among worshippers of the new technology. In this case, the reverence is justified. If you get it right, it uses a laser and infrared sensor to project a Qwerty display on to a flat surface next to the host device, typically a Blackberry or Pocket PC. The keyboard can be the kitchen table. Technology has finally found a way of getting back to basics.So you switch it on and it works? Of course not. This is the 21st century, where nothing happens like that, and no self-respecting device is just switched on. So you faff around with plugs and CDs and multiple options and sensitivity adjustments depending on the size of your fingers - no problem at all for an average eight-year-old - and you place the thing in front of you and the keyboard lights up.So where to use it? Not often in the home, where most of us have a real keyboard on hand, but I could find a use for it even there. Once when I was writing a book, a friend cast an expert eye over one of the chapters and was so startled by what she saw that she spilled some wine on the keyboard. The computer died then and there, never to be revived. Had I been equipped with a virtual keyboard, she could have spilled as much wine as she liked. All I would have had to do would have been to wipe the table and carry on.It will appeal most to travellers, but not so much, perhaps, to those who travel alone. Just watch those eyes swivel and heads turn on a plane or a train as you whip out this piece of kit, plug it in to the mother device, and go to work. In a techno-world where the watchword is "Mine's smaller than yours!" you have the perfect compromise between size and utility. It looks small, but acts big. For those who have struggled, as I have, with keys so tiny that fingers seem like fists, the delivery of the laser keyboard can be a Eureka moment.I can see its appeal, especially to those in my former profession, the foreign correspondents, so long as they can kind find a stable and shaded surface. It is tough and durable, but incoming shell fire may test it to the limit. By contrast, my old Olivetti portable would work anywhere on the planet, and all I ever had to do to it was change the ribbon. This kind of nostalgia is known in the techno-world, I believe, as "yesterday dreaming".So here's some more yesterday dreaming. The world is so dangerous that war reporters now do most of their work in the area rather than on the scene, having been driven back into Green Zones and fortified compounds. The results are necessarily and understandably inauthentic. If I were still doing it, I would be standing in front of palm trees and practising rooftop journalism with the best of them. I call it virtual news. So how better to write it than on a virtual keyboard?&#183;Stephen Fry is away.
Among the many high-end nannying devices distributed with impeccable largesse throughout the cabin and electrical plumbing of this, the latest take on Audi's bestselling A4 saloon, note in particular the company's cunning lane assistance system.Herein, if you happen to drift without indicating across the painted lines on the road, the car automatically starts to wonder why. And, being a smarter kind of car, its first assumption is that you have fallen asleep, or perhaps are trying to unwrap a particularly tricky boiled sweet, or are, for some other reason, not giving the road your undivided attention. At which point, your A4 takes it upon itself to recover your interest by sending a short, sharp pulse through the steering wheel.You get the same warning system on some Citro&euml;ns, though the French manufacturer chooses to buzz you in the buttocks rather than shake you by the wrists, as the German one does. (Form your own cultural assumptions here, if you so wish. I'm not going there.)The Audi can also tell when someone is about to come barrelling past you from behind and lets you know with a winking light. This is in addition to the automatic windscreen wipers, the automatic lights, the automatic electric parking brake, the automatically opening boot-lid... There is, now I come to think about it, very little this car trusts you to manage on your own. Cars, clearly, are running out of patience with us. Soon they'll be ignoring us altogether and making us sit in the back while they do everything.Meanwhile, the new A4 has come out thumpingly huge. Audi have moved the front axle forward, gaining 20 litres more boot space and 3.6cm more leg room on the outgoing model - but at some cost, perhaps, to the model's long-standing charm.I had an opportunity to compare the car up close and at length with a 12-year-old A4 that is sometimes parked in the road where I live. This is a car that - I don't think it's necessarily insensitive to point out - has seen better days, certainly from a care and valeting point of view. Actually, to be frank, it's a total junk-bucket. It wouldn't surprise me if one day the council turns up and tows it. Which will be inconvenient, because it belongs to me.Clearly, this comparison was not designed to do my battered old A4 many favours. Yet, as it turned out, it was almost no comparison at all, because the cars barely seemed to be from the same species. And it wasn't just about the new one's swaggering box-freshness. It was about the truly eye-watering difference in scale. It was like sitting a tangerine beside a watermelon.Back in the mid-90s, when my A4 was second-hand, it was seen to evince (though I say so myself) a special kind of understated chic. At any rate, it clearly pushed a few buttons among people who cared achingly about the status value of their car, but wanted to pretend they didn't. And one wonders whether the A4 hasn't lost the charm to pull off that canny trick in this unashamedly big and bossy form.Ah, well. Count the treats. And feel the years of research and development in the silky, silent quality of the ride. And it's an Audi, so, obviously, it will last for ever if you look after it. And even if you don't.Audi A4 2.0 TDIPrice&pound;23,940Top speed134mphAcceleration0-62 in 9.4 secondsAverage consumption51.4mpgCO2 emissions142g/kmEco rating6/10At the wheelAny Apprentice contestantBound forBrentwoodIn a wordBossy
MondayWii Fit impressionsHackney Police fight youth crime with Pro EvoTuesdayScotland is games capital of UK. DiscussMotley Crue on Rock BandHardcore shooting funWednesdaySims shifts 100 millionWii Fit on CNNEnter a World of GooThursdayDark Sector and other reviewsWikigame: the post-match special'Original' Soul Calibur coming to Xbox 360FridayFriday Question: your favourite 'superstar' game appearanceAnnouncing GameCamp
What's your favourite piece of technology?MyArchos 404 camcorder. My fiancé got it for my birthday as he knows I prefer gifts that are practical. It's billed as a camcorder but it does almost everything you could ask of a gadget – it's a music player, audio recorder, video player, camera and external hard drive all rolled into one. With an external docking station, it can also output to and record from your television.How has it improved your life?I don't have to carry around three different gadgets. Writers and journalists need to be able to record using different media. The Archos provides this capability in one portable package. Plus, I read that Archos is Greek for "master" so it feeds my delusions of grandeur.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I filmed my youngest niece's 1st birthday party on it recently.What additional features would you add if you could?Wireless connectivity to transfer files would be great. I want to say internet access but I'm a compulsive email checker so it's probably a good thing I can't do that on the Archos.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?The specific model will be but the actual gadget won't. "Multi-gadgets" are the way forward.What one tip would you give to non-Archos users?If you do decide to get one, make sure you pick up the external docking station as well. It costs about £60, but the extra functionality is worth it.Do you consider yourself to be a Luddite or a nerd?Well, I have a degree in computer science so I'm pretty much a nerd by default. I like to think of myself as a "chic geek" though.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?My very first PC: a Packard Bell from Dixons. It had 32MB of RAM, a 3.2GB hard drive and came with what I now know to be a completely extortionate price tag. My wonderful father bought it for me because he wanted me to have the best education possible. It was a total privilege for a working class girl from Tower Hamlets.Mac or PC?I want to say Mac, being a "creative type" and all, but I'm afraid I'm going to have to go with the PC. I'm a fast learner but I find it very difficult to "unlearn" so I'm always using Windows shortcuts on Macs and invariably getting frustrated when they don't work. I DO like Macs, but saying you like both Macs and PCs is like saying you're sleeping with two different men (which unfortunately I'm not).What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?Just Right by an American singer called Ryan Leslie. I wouldn't pay that too much attention though since Van Morrison's Brown Eyed Girl is somehow the least played song despite being one of my all-time favourites.Will robots rule the world?Of course not. John Connor will prevail.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Does an Aston Martin count as a piece of technology?Kia Abdullah's first novel - Life, Love and Assimilation - was published in 2006. Her second, Innocence Lost, is due for release at the end of the year&middot;This article was amended on Monday April 21 2008. The title of Kia Abdullah's next book has been changed from The Art of Innocence to Innocence Lost. This has been changed.
JT Wang, chairman of Acer, says that 70% of the sales of Asus Eee PCs "represent newly opened sales avenues," they're not just replacement purchases. (This is a key industry hope: see my column:Are subnotebooks stepping out of the shadows at last?) According to Taiwan'sDigiTimes:When Asustek Computer launched its Eee PC, Acer had doubts about its market opportunity. However, after just two months of sales, Acer quickly realized that low-cost PCs are to become an important turning point for the PC market, and have a chance to open up a new era for the current PC industry.Wang added that "if low-cost PCs gain support from the whole industry, a goal of 500 million PC shipments per year could be achieved in just a few years." This year, the total is likely to be just under 300 million.Wang also pointed out that he expects Taiwan to a become WiMAX island, leading the way in term of expertise, solutions and infrastructure; and all other countries and companies will need to come to Taiwan in [order] to source solutions.Acer is already the world's third largest PC manufacturer, and Asustek and other companies could establish global brands by selling ultra low cost PCs, and help develop Taiwan's economy.Another DigiTimes storynotes thatTaiwan's electronics industry, boasting 670 companies listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange (TSE) and the OTC (over-the-counter) Securities Market and having an annual production value of US$300 billion, will play the role of locomotive in Taiwan's long-term economic development, according to Taiwan president-elect Ma Ying-jeou.Ma pledged that the government will come out with a set of supplemental measures to help Taiwan's electronics industry to advance to a new high, with hopes of transforming Taiwan into a hub for economic and trade activities in the Asia Pacific region and the R&amp;D center for international players.Acer is expected to launch an ultramobile with an 8.9 inch screen, like theAsus PC900, in May or June, followed by a cheap 12.1-inch notebook.
I've got to admit I'm entranced by the latest series of The Apprentice, because all the tasks that the teams are given seem designed to show up the fact that nobody in Britainmakesanything any more, and so doesn't understand supply chains. They can talk all the tosh they like about being the global sales manager, but when it comes to makingthings, like meals or printing photos, they're all at sea, because they can't seem to get all the bits together at the right time. And if you can't supply, you can't sell.In themost recent episodethey were tasked with making money from photographing people in the Bluewater shopping centre. One of the teams, brilliantly, found a David Beckham lookalike to pose with the punters. It should have been candy from a baby, money for old rope, loadsamoney. But it wasn't, because for both teams the back office fell apart. No photos, no money.And so we turn to Psystar, a (very) little company based in Miami, which last Sunday appears to have tipped off the Mac Rumors website about its latest project. The message posted via the site's "tips" link was commendably brief: "PC running Leopard with no modifications", it said, with a link to a web page touting a new product – a PC that it said would run Apple's OS X 10.5, aka "Leopard".Audacious plansThat was 10.33pm on Sunday April 13th. Arnold Kim, who runs Mac Rumors, thought it was certainly worth putting the story into his site's news hopper. A company offering to sell Mac clones? Apple revoked licences to make these more than a decade ago. And so the item appeared the next morning, talking of a company called Psystar that had audacious plans to put Apple's software on non-Apple hardware.It's not that this isn't already being done. TheOSx86 projecthas been (successfully) getting Apple's Mac OS X to load on all sorts of hardware, right down to the Asus EEE PC. And Rob Griffiths at Macworld hasbuilt his own "FrankenMac"for $1000 (£500), getting pro-quality power for amateur-level costs.But the effect of Psystar's claim on the blogosphere was like suspending a sealed, ticking box marked BOMB above a roomful of bomb disposal experts, just out of their reach. Everyone at once gathered below and began trying to work out what was in it, based on the timbre of the ticking, the colour of the box, its shape, the delay between the ticks ... pretty much everything apart from standing on each others' shoulders and trying to find out what was in the box by getting hold of it. The Macblogosphere exploded into discussion, but none based on the product itself; only on the claims made on the site.No blame, by the way, attaches to Kim at Mac Rumors. He has a real job already: he's a physician, as the website explains. So he runs Mac Rumors as a clearinghouse for, um, rumours and news. One doesn't expect him to make extensive phone calls to follow every rumour he gets. (I expect his patients are happier for that.)Hoaxes and stuntsAs he noted to me in an email, Psystar "left no email address, but this is common. People drop off links of things they think are interesting. I don't know if the submitter was associated with Psystar. But after looking at the site and product, I saw that it was very interesting. I always worry about hoaxes and publicity stunts, but there was no reason to think it was a hoax,  and obviously, the ramifications were significant. The technology to run Mac OS X on a generic PC is well established, but no one had taken it commercially before."So I wrote it up, being sure to note that their claims hadn't been independently verified."But plenty of people who did repeat the story didn't think that digging a bit deeper was worth doing, and just repeated the analysis: how loud the bomb was ticking, the delay between the ticks, and so on. It seemed nobody was standing up and trying to find out what was inside the box.So when I took the (to me a bit obvious) step ofringing the company and trying to find out some more about it– and keeping tabs on its web page for the remarkable gyrations of its address, whichchangedno fewer thanthree times in three days– this was hailed by some as though it was a revolution in the annals of the internet.'Some blogger'Except not quite. On aZDNet discussion, one commenter said:"Isn't it interesting that it is some blogger that actually engages in true investigative journalism. The big news houses like ZDNet, ComputerWorld, etc. simply re-printed press releases. Methinks the small mammals are going to outlive the aging, soon to be extinct dinosaurs.""Some blogger"? Jings. It's nice to have the situation so perfectly described in reverse. OK, so I pointed out Psystar's bizarre changes of address on a blog, but it's still the Guardian's blog, not my back room. (Not that there was a press release, either; only a few lines on Mac Rumors, and the Psystar website itself.)It's a worrying trend, though, this assumption that newspapers can't and won't do "real journalism" (what one could describe as "finding out something readers don't yet know"). To be honest, the reverse is true. Most non-journalist bloggers don't have the time or inclination to imagine the necessary mischief required to do journalism day in, day out. Because non-routine journalism is about finding, or causing, trouble.Just honest folksDoes this mean that Psystar is not on the level? According to a commenter on the Technology blog whoclaims to knowthe principals of the company – Rudolfo and Roberto Pedraza – they're just honest folks who want to provide a potentially useful service.Assume for a moment that Psystar is busy putting together cloned Macs, installing Leopard on PC chassis. I suspect that they're rapidly going to run into the problem that Sir Alan's would-be apprentices have discovered: making a supply chain ishard. Ramp up expectations and you're almost bound to disappoint not only yourself but also your customers. Makingthingsis hard, which is why so many people have opted to make virtual things, where you only need call on the help of a spare server; and withAmazon and Google offering add-on online storage and processing, even that doesn't need any skill now.Perhaps Psystar thought its one-line notice would just get a little mention on one site. If so, it miscalculated.Some people say they've ordered computers from the company. We'll have to wait for the first one to arrive and its new owner to switch it on. Then, either the bomb will go off in the Mac world – or the ticking will stop, to be replaced by silence.Or possibly we'll hear an explosive sound from Sir Alan Sugar's office: "Yer fired! Bloody stupid idea of selling Apple software on PC hardware. Get out of my sight!" Well, we can dream.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
In 2007, there was an increase in the volume of music acquired for nothing and a sharp decline in the amount paid for, according to NPD's annual survey of Internet users. Although more people paid for digital downloads -- that market grew from 7% to 10% -- it wasn't enough to cover the fall in CD sales -- down from 41% to 32%.Music industry lawsuits also failed to stop peer-to-peer file sharing, which grew from 14% to 19% by volume. This equalled the amount of music that NPD classes as "Burned from others" or "Ripped from others" (19% each).The New York Times'sBits blogquotes Russ Crupnick, who runs NPD's music service:"The number of people who do peer to peer in 2007 versus 2006 has been stable," he said. "The number of files taken per users has increased significantly." This is because of the shift of many users from Limewire to BitTorrent, which makes it easier to download whole albums.One thing hasn't changed: people still do most of their listening to music via the radio, followed by playing CDs.But digital music is coming on strong. Listening to music on a computer has the third largest number of people, followed by listening on a portable device like an iPod. And people using portable players listen to it rather frequently. That is mixed news for the music industry because digital files on players are the easiest way to use borrowed and stolen music.The Bits article also refers to NPD research on Amazon's DRM-free music service versus Apple's iTunes:As for Amazon, NPD found a different audience profile than iTunes users. Amazon doesn't yet have the huge teenage audience of iTunes. Nor does it have a large female audience. But Amazon customers are more likely than those on iTunes to buy albums rather than single tracks.A statement that NPD released on April 15 (AmazonMP3 Music Download Store Offers New Hope For Digital Music Growth) said:Apple iTunes digital music sales are still 10 times that of AmazonMP3 on a unit basis, but differences in their consumer demographic profiles are telling. According to NPD's initial consumer surveys, 64% of the AmazonMP3 unit sales were traced to males compared to 44% for iTunes. AmazonMP3 showed unexpected strength among young adults (consumers aged 18 to 25), but only 3% of their customers were teens (age 13 to 17). In contrast the iTunes Music store sold nearly a fifth (18%) of its music to teens. It should also be noted that iTunes has a strong franchise in gift cards used by teens, and Amazon has a relatively small base of teen CD buyers.
Apple tooka bit of a beatingover its deceptive attempt to get Windows users to install its Safari browser, but according to Ryan Naraine'sSecurity Watch, it's changing the dialogue box so that Safari is presented correctly as New Software rather than as an update. He notes:The company is still pushing Safari down to Windows boxes (pre-checked by default, unfortunately!), but that download is clearly marked as new software, an important distinction that shows Apple is paying attention to the loud grumbles from its user base.Well done, Apple!
WHAT GAMECAMP ISGameCamp is a one-day event for people interested in games, and for interesting people in gaming. That covers everything from computer and video gaming, ARGs, tabletop games, pervasive games, RPGs and more.If none of that makes sense to you, then don't worry – the objective is simple: to talk informally with like-minded people and get excited about stuff involving games and play.GameCamp is free to attend.GameCamp is being held between 11am and 5.30pm on Saturday May 3rd in central London.GameCamp is big enough for 120 people.GameCamp is organised around the principles ofBarCamp.GameCamp is a laid-back and casual affair, but everything that happens is in the public domain; if what you say or do is interesting then expect it to be blogged, photographed or talked about.WHAT GAMECAMP ISN'TGameCamp is NOT a business networking event, and it's NOT a chance to pitch ideas – although you might meet people you'd like to work with.Similarly, although plenty of people at GameCamp will be involved in the gaming industry, members of the public are welcome and this isn't an exclusive event for gaming professionals. The only real requirement is  enthusiasm for the subject.WHO GAMECAMP ISGameCamp is being run as a not-for-profit event byThe Guardian. We are indebted toSonyfor hosting the event, and thankful to our other sponsor,Nintendo.GameCamp is the product of a team of ninjas skilled inidea-fu: Bobbie Johnson and Aleks Krotoski from The Guardian, Dan and Adrian Hon ofSix to Start, the irreplaceableRachel Clarkeand the inimitableDave Green. The logo is the work of the devilishly talentedChris Mac Morrison.
