High-speed or "broadband" access to the internet has recently been looking like a dream that would never become everyday reality. For over 15 years, experts have been singing the praises of fast 24-hour access to the internet but progress has been stalled by a classic chicken-and-egg difficulty. People would not buy fast links because they could not see what new services would run on them; manufacturers would not commit vast sums to build a fast link to the home until they could see services that they could sell at a profit. The only product seen as a killer application - on-demand video - has never quite made the cut.All that may now change with the way the attack on America has diminished the appetite for travel. Airlines may be in crisis but, meanwhile, shares in companies involved in video-conferencing are soaring. Yesterday, organisers of the forthcoming Broadband Home Conference in San Jose predicted that residential broadband "promises to be a key to global economic recovery" and should be part of George Bush's economic stimulus. With video-conferencing, broadband may have found its "killer app".In Britain, the e-commerce minister Douglas Alexander has called on BT to exploit its investment in broadband more aggressively. That means lowering prices and giving competitors cheaper access to BT's monopoly of the final link to the home. Even BT's cable competitors like NTL and Telewest (both now experiencing a surge in demand for cable modems giving fast web access) want BT to succeed so the whole market can benefit.The government should urgently speed up the broadband revolution. It can do this in its own sphere by implementing schemes like enabling people to interact with their doctors or nurses at home and to use the web for public tendering. Public investment in the web has suddenly become a cost-effective way of staving off the recession. The government should act immediately - at internet speed.
Union Square in New York became over the last two weeks the unofficial shrine and assembly point for people who had lost friends or relatives and wanted to light a candle for them or to leave a message about them.Many of the messages were calls for peace so it was interesting to see that the CD on special offer in the neighbouring Barnes &amp; Noble bookshop on the square was Songs From the Divided House. It is a special compilation album about the Vietnam war which includes both Country Joe McDonald's anti-war anthem, I Feel Like I'm Fixin' To Die Rag and John Lennon's Give Peace A Chance as well as speeches from both of the presidents who prosecuted the war, Lyndon Johnson and Richard Nixon.What is already clear is that the anti-war movement evolving out of the events of September 11 will be a very different one from that which gradually emerged to oppose the Vietnam war in the 60s and 70s. Time moves much more swiftly now and it was within hours of the terrible events that ad hoc groups from New Yorkers Say No to War to campus movements had formed.Key to this speed has been the internet, which, of course, did not exist in the 60s. Then, the anti-war troops were rallied through flyers, through the old "underground press" from the Berkeley Barb to the Village Voice, through the Pacifica network radio stations and by word of mouth.Now, countless emails and counter-cultural online news services operate to channel the movement. People seeking alternative views have only to click on to commondreams.org, laweekly.com, thenation.com, alternet.org, accuracy.org, nowarcollective.com or humanrightsnow.org to be presented with an array of information and opinion that 30 years ago would have taken weeks to assemble and disseminate.This week's anti-war march in Washington, which will take place at noon on Saturday, has been fuelled and publicised through the internet, on sites like iacentre.org, as much as by any other method, not least because there has not been much coverage in the mainstream media of its existence.There are other ways in which the new anti-war movement differs. While the anti-Vietnam campaigners included those who supported the North Vietnamese as well as those who just opposed the way the war was being waged, no one in the current anti-war movement supports the perpetrators of what took place on September 11.And this week such performers as Chris Rock, Jamie Foxx, the Pointer Sisters and Aerosmith have offered to perform for any US troops who find themselves stationed abroad in the coming weeks.During the Vietnam war, such entertainment was undertaken by the conservative wing of the industry - most notably in the form of Bob Hope. In his recent collection of celebrity profiles, the writer John Lahr recalls that, towards the end of the war, the GIs in Vietnam were deeply unimpressed with Hope, even walking out of one of his shows and at one Long Binh concert holding up signs that read "Peace not Hope" and "The Vietnam War is a Bob Hope Joke".They would rather have heard from Country Joe McDonald. Changed days indeed.
After spending the best part of a decade in London, the consumer electronics show Live headed for the midlands
   last week, taking up residence in a couple of halls in Birmingham's NEC.Punters were treated to a reasonable
   selection of recent gadgets, yet, given the rather limited number of exhibitors, not really enough high-tech
   desirables to justify the rather exorbitant £12 entrance fee.There was, however, a UK debut for a genuinely
   innovative product - the world's first portable digital radio.Displayed purely as prototype, the unit developed by Roke
   Manor Research (a division of Siemens) charmed listeners with its hiss-free performance, large screen and pocket
   size. The company hopes that a version with a built-in MP3 player will go on sale next year for around £300.Sony
   treated its customers to the first European walkies of its latest Aibo robot dog - Latte. Appropriately finished in a
   fetching shade of Milky White, Latte can learn and respond to the name given by his owner, take JPEG images via a
   voice-controlled digital camera and generally wag its tail at other Aibos. The new pooch will be on sale in November
   for £700.Other highlights on the Sony stand included its two new net-ready digital camcorders - the DCR-PC120 and
   DCR-IP7. Both models feature MPEG 1 movie capture facilities, an integrated web browser, Bluetooth facilities and a
   large LCD display.Users can email movies from wherever they are by using Bluetooth to connect with a General
   Packet Radio Service (GPRS) mobile phone. The camcorders reach the stores in November both priced £1,600. Also
   proving popular was Sony's Palm-OS-based Cli¿ handheld, the PEG-N770C.The model which goes on sale next week for
   £400 features an integrated music (MP3/ ATRAC3) player and has one of the best colour screens seen on a personal
   digital assistant. Colour screens were big news on the Trium mobile phone stand, where the company paraded the
   Eclipse, one of the first colour screen mobiles to reach UK stores.The GPRS model is due out in October and will cost
   £100-£150. Siemens also afforded punters a glimpse of its latest model, the C45, its first to offer users
   downloadable and programmable ring tones.Visitors could also check out a selection of the hottest new phones on
   the Virgin Mobile stand including the two super stylish mini models (Nokia's 8310 and Motorola's V66) that will be
   competing for a place in your Christmas stocking.Virgin also displayed two mobile phone gadgets which will reach the
   stores next month: Ericsson's snap-on digital camera attachment the Communicam (£125) and Nokia's MP3 player
   (£200). Visitors also had their first chance to get to grips with Microsoft's new Windows XP operating system which
   is scheduled to reach the stores next month.
Napster has agreed to pay $26m (£18m) to settle its dispute with music publishers and songwriters, agreeing to pay them one-third of the royalties Napster will issue from its new subscription service. That leaves two-thirds of the royalties for the record labels themselves, and means publishers and songwriters will do much better in the online world than in the real, where their share is smaller.Today, Napster is an empty shell: a brand waiting for a new purpose. The original free song-swapping service which made Napster's name has been shut down, while Napster continues attempts to placate the music industry so offended by the rampant piracy which took place over Napster's system. In the meantime, Napster's users have migrated to other, mostly less effective, services (see links below) where the piracy continues unabated.Napster itself has embarked on a transformation that would test even the most established of corporations. The fact that the company is two and a half years old makes its efforts all the more amazing. First, it has been fighting a legal battle on several fronts for half its life. Second - partly as a result of those legal battles going against it - it has been attempting to completely transform its core technology at the same time, to make it secure. Third, parallel to all this, it has been trying to do deals with the reluctant giants of its industry to ensure it has legitimate - and popular - content to sell in the future.The significance of yesterday's deal is that while Napster has long been looking to settle its court battles, this is the first time the claimants have agreed to play along.The problem for anyone attempting online music distribution is the tangle of rights that are associated with individual pieces of music. It is not just the record label that owns the latest chart-topper - the songwriter, performer, session musicians and music publishers may all be taking a cut too. Thanks to the new deal, the publishers have been taken care of.Meanwhile, Napster is negotiating with the record labels to sort out paying everyone else. In June the internet company did deals with the UK's Association of Independent Music and the Independent Music Companies Association, which gives it access to hundreds of thousands of tracks from thousands of European artists on independent labels. Napster's new paid-for service will likely use this large body of music as its launch pad.But the big prize is the majors - the kind of places Kylie, Madonna and Mrs Beckham hang out - and deals with them are proving a little more difficult. The big labels, having ignored the rise of the internet until 1999, are now more net-savvy. They realise the potential for vast profit from selling music over the internet, bypassing distributors, retailers and the need for packaging, and that's why they want to set up their own online subscription services. One - called Pressplay - will draw on the talent on the Vivendi, Universal and Sony labels, and is expected to launch within weeks.Napster has a deal with Pressplay's rival, MusicNet, which includes EMI, BMG and Warner. But Napster's involvement depends entirely on it proving it has stamped out music piracy on its service. This will prove to be a big problem for Napster, whose programmers will find themselves up against a small army of net-linked "crackers" when they launch a secure system.This maze of rights, lawsuits and expensive traps are the reason some have said Napster - the music industry's online pioneer and wake-up call - might not last long enough to see through the revolution it started. What yesterday's deal signals to us is that this remarkable little company might, just might, manage to pull it off.Related article25.09.2001: Napster to pay £18m in damagesUseful linksNapsterAssociation of Independent MusicPressplayVivendiUniversal Music GroupMusicNetEMI GroupBMGWarner Music Group
It has taken just two weeks for the inevitable to occur: someone has written an email virus that exploits the World Trade Centre tragedy, disguising itself as a call for peace.Security experts said that distribution of the virus was limited at this point but they were concerned that the virus could spread quickly because it looks like hundreds of other petitions, stories and appeals that have circulated on the internet since the September 11 terrorist attacks.The email contains the attachment WTC.exe and a subject line that reads: "Peace between America and Islam."The text of the message reads in part: "Let's vote to live in peace."Like many other viruses, this one spreads by mailing copies of itself to addresses stored in Microsoft email software.Unlike others, however, the new virus causes more than a slowdown in internet traffic.It deletes some files and overwrites some web pages stored on the hard drive.According to computer security firms Trend Micro and Symantec, the virus overwrites web files it finds with the following message: "America ...Few days will show you what we can do!!! It's our turn Zacker is so sorry for you."Virus writers have exploited current events in the past.In late 1999 several viruses pretended to contain software fixes for the Y2K bug.Other virus writers have tried to trick users into opening infected attachments by disguising themselves as love letters or photos of celebrities.The timeliness and tastelessness of the WTC virus aside, the most dangerous computer infection out there right now is Nimda, the worm and virus announced last week that exploits a flaw in Microsoft's IIS web server software.Nimda can either appear as an email or infect systems directly as a worm.Microsoft has produced a fix for the hole in IIS that Nimda exploits.
Vizzavi, the ambitious internet portal joint venture between Vodafone and Vivendi, is poised to make widespread job cuts as part of a concerted effort to control costs.The move follows persistent rumours that Vizzavi is failing to live up to its shareholders initial expectations and that senior executives at Vivendi are starting to question the French company's long-term commitment to the project.Vizzavi was set up early last year to provide users with access to services including email, address books, search engines, music and news, regardless of whether they were using a mobile phone or laptop computer.It aimed to become Europe's leading provider of information and services for users of wireless devices.Insiders say, however, that it has struggled to overcome technology problems and missed its self-imposed target of 2m registered subscribers by the end of last June.The slower than expected take-up of mobile internet devices has compounded the company's problems.Vizzavi is a 50-50 joint venture between Vivendi and Vodafone, employs around 800 people and was once valued by analysts at &euro;5bn.The company was born out of Vivendi's support for Vodafone during the UK group's hostile takeover of Mannesmann in 1999.The two shareholders earmarked &#163;1bn to invest in the project in the hope that it would be achieving monthly break-even on an ebitda basis by the end of 2003.However, analysts believe that Vivendi is now starting to reassess its commitment to the project."There is no doubt that Vivendi is not the company it was when it did the deal with Vodafone," said one analyst who declined to be named."Since then it has bought Seagram and is questioning its whole wireless involvement."Another analyst commented: "The cuts are indicative of where the mobile sector has and - at the same time - has not got to. Vizzavi's business model has always been very complex."Some investment bankers suggest that the highly-acquisitive Vivendi could abandon Vizzavi and bid for a portal like Yahoo, which has an established user base and brand name.Vizzavi lost Vodafone and Vivendi about &#163;63m each last year. This year it is expected to make total losses of over &#163;200m.Vodafone has been highly acquisitive over the past two years but is now entering a phase of consolidation as it looks to increase revenues from its 95m customers in 29 countries. The company has no plans to enter new markets in the short-term.Vizzavi is chaired by Vivendi boss Jean-Marie Messier, who has described it as "the first   portal of the second internet age". Vodafone chief executive Sir Chris Gent is due to take over from him in the middle of next year.The company is run on a day-to-day basis by chief executive Evan Newmark.Headquartered in London, Vizzavi has subsidiaries in France, Germany and Italy. After a flurry of early releases, the company has not made a significant news announcement since May.Vivendi referred calls for comment to Vizzavi which the company then did not return. Vodafone declined to make any comment.
Internet firms such as Yahoo! and Excite face a black hole in advertising revenue as companies make swinging cuts to their promotional activity in the wake of the World Trade Centre disaster.Figures published yesterday indicate that the number of new advertisements bought on the web fell by a quarter in the week of the attacks and were down 16% last week.The sudden collapse is likely to put fresh pressure on the finances of loss-making dot.coms. It will raise new questions about the business model of firms such as Yahoo!, which gets 90% of its revenue from website advertisers.Charles Buchwalter of market research firm Jupiter Media Metrix, which carried out the research, said: "Advertisers clearly weren't in the right frame of mind to initiate new campaigns. They're trying to figure out what to do now."On September 12, the day after the terrorists struck, Jupiter Media Metrix said 753 new online advertisments were purchased, compared with 1,565 the previous week. Yahoo! is the biggest online host of advertisers, followed by MSN, iWon, Netscape and AOL.Yahoo! declined to discuss its advertising revenue, except to say it did not expect a material impact from the disaster in its third-quarter results, due next month.Reports yesterday suggested that some websites are cutting their prices for ad space by as much as 80%.Dot.com shares fared better than most in last week's stock market rout, but Yahoo!'s share price dropped by 13% on Friday, as analysts began highlighting their concerns about online advertising.
So, you want to buy something on the internet and save a load of cash, but you don't have a credit card? That's
   a coincidence, because plenty of e-tailers would be only too happy to take money from you: it is just they haven't
   had a means of doing so, according to much of the hype surrounding e-commerce and the disenfranchisement of
   the credit-less.Actually, that has always been an exaggeration. Most of the established sites offer alternatives
   to credit card payment; Amazon offers "pay by cheque", businesses can buy from companies such as Viking
   Direct by opting for a company account with invoices. The goods are delivered with the bill. But for consumers,
   the immediacy of buying on the net is half the fun, and the speed with which goods normally turn up represents a
   good percentage of the benefit.So it is not surprising that experiments such as Mondex and VisaCash started
   for small payments, although the hesitancy with which consumers have greeted the web means it is even less of
   a surprise that these have met with only qualified success. The "here's a card but it doesn't involve credit" idea
   doesn't seem to want to go away, though.Its latest incarnation isSplashPlastic, a
   card that works in the same way as a pre-paid telephone card. You buy your card for a sum of between £5 and
   £20, from schools, magazines or the website and top it up. It is aimed chiefly at the youth market.Some
   attempts at tapping this sector have fizzled out before launch; this one at least appears to exist. Logically,
   though, it need not. If you are buying over the net you don't need a shop: therefore you don't need a card, just a
   code that is mutually agreed.A logical development, anticipated by PayPal in the US, is that individuals as well as
   businesses should be able to send money to each other electronically. One of the first companies to allow this in
   the UK isNochex. It works simply enough: you set up your account and upload money from
   your debit card, then email said cash to anyone else with an account. They can then download it into their bank or
   wait until they have some more to put in. Uploads and downloads cost 99p a throw.The service will help not only
   buyers on the net but sellers - anyone with a UK bank debit card can have a Nochex account and since it doesn't
   allow for payment by credit card, there is no chance of spending cash you haven't actually got."It's real money
   so there's no risk," stresses Nochex chief executive Phillip Sheldrake. There is therefore no chance of a
   chargeback and no chance of attracting the younger market, of which SplashPlastic appears so enamoured.Extra
   features are being added: recently the company started offering the Nochex Checkout, allowing people to order
   several items from a single website and pay the total rather than a series of one-offs. The snag is that it only
   allows you to send money to someone else with a Nochex account. An alternative comes from PhonePaid.This
   works on the same principle as Nochex but you send to a mobile phone number instead of an email address, and it
   is done through the mobile phone network (accounts can be set up atwww.phonepaid.com). If the person to whom
   you are trying to send money does not want a PhonePaid account, the company will send a cheque.Ultimately the
   new forms of buying will work in the same way as the telephone: at the moment everyone is being asked to buy
   the first one, and they don't want to get stuck with unusable credits on a card nobody accepts.The players are
   working out different solutions; Nochex is content for the moment to concentrate on people-to-people
   transactions and let it grow "virally" - a buyer wins something in an auction and asks to pay by Nochex so the
   seller joins, and so on; by the end of the year it is anticipated there will be half a million customers.PhonePaid is
   growing with an ad campaign and a handful of businesses have accepted it as a means of payment - a chain of
   fruit juice bars, a restaurant and a nightclub among them.A spokesman confirmed that the company was in talks
   with a number of websites includingwww.fhm.comandwww.ministryofsound.com; it was also talking to high
   street retailers.SplashPlastic is more of a traditional credit card: its site has links to a number of online
   traders who will accept payment this way. The bottom line is that none yet has the reassurance or visibility of a
   Visa or Switch merchant. This won't matter to the "individual to individual" style of sale targeted by Nochex and
   PhonePaid but will be vital as they move into business e-commerce services. Each understands the need for this
   sort of recognition: none has the clout that Mondex and VisaCash should have had in the market through the
   sheer size of the brand.
Conquest: Frontier WarsPC	&#163;29.99  Digital Anvil/ Ubi Soft	****What feels like a souped-up version of Masters of Orion, proves to be considerably more ambitious, with a grand real-time strategy (RTS) played around star systems rather than terrains and a curious visual style featuring 3D ships moving across 2D maps. These levels are great to watch, as the impressive nebulae, asteroid belts, and planets all have a direct effect on the ships moving between them.Because of the length and complexity of the 16 or so sin gle-player missions, conquering territory is all important, first for providing strategic outposts where shipyards and weapons can be constructed, second to act as supply points.Frontier Wars enforces a strict and realistic logic to its battles, with all ships and defensive units running out of ammo, requiring constant re-supply from planetary bases or supply ships. This greatly affects how you play some of the longer levels, with wormholes and jumpgates also needing protection to ensure your supply routes.But the interface still looks clunky, the graphics engine is far from perfect and the micro-management of constantly re-supplying a large fleet very tedious.   Despite this, there is much to enjoy for RTS fans, with some levels taking several hours.All in all, it is a huge single player game with two more playable races for online gamers. Still, it is a shame this took quite so long to reach the shelves. (MA)Mystery of the DruidsPC	&#163;34.99  CDV	***Once upon a time - round about 1991 - point-and-click adventures were the only games that mattered. Titles such as Monkey Island were characterised by satisfying puzzles, well-written dialogue and cerebral gameplay that appealed to a wide audience.Unfortunately, powerful graphics cards and increased processing power have seen the genre wane, with gamers seemingly more tempted by 3D epics and strategy games.   Even LucasArts has disappointed purists by taking such games as Monkey Island into the third dimension. It seems mainland Europe is the last remaining bastion of traditional adventures.The latest export is Mystery of the Druids, a time-travelling murder story taking in    locations from Scotland Yard to coastal France. You control Halligan, the reluctant detective, as he works his way through a stereotyped England full of bobbies and cads. As in allsuch games, the basic   idea is to whizz the mouse around the screen and find items or characters to interact with. You can then solve puzzles by placing improbable objects together.While not state of the art, the visuals are impressive. But the dubious translations, which lead to some unintentionally hilarious conversations, don't help.Mystery of the Druids is an anachronism, and suffers from the faults that have always bedevilled the genre, particularly the emphasis on progression dependent on choosing the correct conversation.Nevertheless, it has an above-average plot, and a lack of similar titles on the horizon, means adventure fans should investigate.  (GH)
Even in the online age, television proved unsurpassable as news broke of the attacks on the USA. Internet news sites struggled to keep up with demand, as several major outlets were swamped by demand for information. But in the hours, then days, after the events, the net came into its own as millions went online for personal, rather than news-mediated, voices.The internet showed its strength early on. As New York's phone service jammed in the immediate aftermath of the tragedy, email traffic increased dramatically and proved itself a robust medium. "For hours we've had no idea if he &#91;a son&#93; is safe but he just emailed me saying he can't get through on the phone but he's OK," one correspondent told me.As the hours passed and telephone disaster inquiry lines rapidly became overstretched, the web provided instantly accessible alternatives for those desperate for news of loved ones. A host of helpsites appeared: New York's own portal atwww.ny.composted a list of survivors, Prodigy.net featured "I'm Okay" pages, Yahoo.com set up an emergency information site, and other similar check-and-report sites followed. Yahoo reported a 40-fold increase in traffic on Tuesday afternoon.But it was the personal internet - uniquely interactive, unfiltered and unmediated by news professionals, governments, or big business - which revealed the online community at its best. As events unfolded, newsgroups and bulletin boards began posting messages of shock and sympathy - by evening, it was a torrent. People offered practical help, too, such as accommodation for travellers stranded at airports. By Wednesday, countless chain-emails were doing the rounds, expressing solidarity and condolences.As the week progressed,   individual experiences poured into in-boxes. "I am comforting my friend whose stepson has not been heard from - he was on the 110th floor," one person wrote to me. "I'm emailing from a hotel 1,000 miles from home, unable to get back, unable to help," said another. One, looking at the view across the Hudson, wrote: "Across from South Bay just two days ago I could see the towers - now it's just smoke_ the sky is being patrolled every couple of minutes by fighter planes armed with missiles_ our local firehouse is missing seven firemen."Good intentions and compassion, however, were counterbalanced by hate and fury. Within hours of the attack, ad hoc websites and chatrooms sprang up. Wild conjecture and conspiracy theory proliferated unchecked. The US government was blamed - so was the insurance industry, the mafia and drug cartels, and Russian dissidents.Other accused perpetrators included McVeigh-style militiamen, secret service agents bolstering a lacklustre presidency, frustrated Pentagon hawks stirring up some action, and Mossad acting as agent provocateur to ensure continued US support for Israel's Palestinian policy.In the chatrooms, the crazies were out in force and Nostradamus was frequently cited. One passage quoted in the aftermath ran: "in the new century from the sky will come a great King of Terror_ twin brothers torn apart by chaos." These "prophetic" words were, it was claimed, partly drawn up a few years ago by a student looking to point out how easily vague predictions could be adapted to any disaster.Others went for all-out provocation - "Great bit of flying, huh?" sneered "Guest_Osama", while "Oscar"   cruelly paraphrased Lady Bracknell: "To lose one tower may be regarded as a misfortune: to lose both looks like carelessness." Counter-ranters included "Pat-Riot": "If I'd been on those flights, it wouldn't have happened_ anyone who doesn't attack a hijacker on an airplane is a fucking coward and deserves to die."There was no shortage of   Islamophobia online. Muslim organisations throughout the world reported a spate of hate emails. DIY websites alleged "Arab terrorists" were about "to obtain nuclear weapons to use against the United States".Paranoid voices claimed the FBI and CIA were infiltrating sites and chatrooms, citing US reports that Bin Laden sent "coded instruc tions to his cohorts via internet chat" and hid "encrypted blueprints for terrorist outrages behind the X-rated pictures on porn websites."Such febrile anti-tech speculation was not restricted to American outlets. The Evening Standard sitewww.thisislondon.compredicted "inflamed young men" would wreak Islam's revenge "from council houses in Bradford" by releasing "cyber viruses, crashing our computers with simple email programmes."Need to Know, a technology newsletter, was a breath of fresh air with its sarcastic commentary on the reporting.By Monday, chatroom fury was abating and the personal accounts were drying up. A friend in New York sounded a note of sanity. "People are very quiet. I don't see the fury the media is reporting, just deepest sadness." But as he wrote, Blair and Bush were upping the rhetoric, and Israel continued its incursions into Palestinian territory.New York City guidewww.ny.comHelpsites:www.ny.com/wtc.htmlhttp://okay.prodigy.nethttp://dailynews.yahoo.com/fc/US/Emergency_Informationhttp://safe.millennium.berkeley.eduhttp://jewz.comwww.redcross.orgwww.viexpo.com/dmstest/america.htmlhttp://okay.prodigy.nethttp://dailynews.yahoo.com/fc/US/Emergency_Informationhttp://safe.millennium.berkeley.eduhttp://jewz.comwww.redcross.orgwww.viexpo.com/dmstest/america.htmlNewsgroups searchhttp://groups.google.comMicrosoft chathttp://chat.msn.comYahoo chat:http://chat.yahoo.com(alsohttp://chat.yahoo.com/?room=Breaking%20News)Muslim Council of Britainwww.mcb.org.uk/home.phpThe Islamic Foundation:www.islamic-foundation.org.ukwww.islamic-foundation.org.ukNeed To Knowwww.ntk.net
The attack on the World Trade Tower is no more an attack on the global economy than it is an attack on the global network. That's right: the internet we've argued over for the past 10 years has been targeted. Given the quality of a lot of what I've read online since the attack, it's hard to be too upset. The internet is at war with itself, when it should be coming to terms with its real enemies.I have watched as people on politically progressive mailing lists - from Nettime to my own media-squat - have wrestled with the introduction of such a glaring discontinuity into their conceptual narratives. Everyone is attempting to "make sense" of the World Trade Centre tragedy. Unfortunately, as in any moment when things do not make any real sense, many people are reaching for conspiracy theories, or retreating into one brand of blind fundamentalism or another.Let's entertain them for a moment.Internet conspiracies range from a Bush-Bin Laden oil deal, to a joint effort by Israel and America to earn support for the war against the Palestinians. These ideas all stem from a sense of responsibility for what happened. Of course. People who have experienced networking know that no one force is responsible for such a catastrophe.But we don't need an outlandish theory to see that we have been engaged in a certain kind of war for a long time, and that the rules of that war are changing. Throughout the cold war, we had an agreement with the Soviet Union to stay within certain parameters. We maintained nuclear arsenals, generally stayed away from one another, and supported insurgents with money.Our tactics during this period included training and arming people like Bin Laden. We also supported countries with resources or forms of government we liked. (Our support of Jordan's intentionally repressive monarchy is much more objectionable than our support of Israel's attempted democracy. Alas, the Palestinians don't have any idea how hated they are by the so-called Arab community). The concrete karmic result of US policy is that the monsters we create eventually turn on us.A few embassy bombings were not enough to show us what we had created. The World Trade Centre was. We have made terrible mistakes in our ongoing war effort. And the very people that the USSR and the USA were once fighting over are now fighting against us.But whatever role we played, and however ineffectual our strategy, what we have been aiming to support over the past couple of centuries is creativity and free will. All the angst and political critique expressed by highly educated internet-literate computers users has been made possible by the Western   system, born in the Renaissance, crafted in the Enlightenment and enacted in the French and US revolutions.To maintain this system, we have done some very questionable things. And these were not always the best solutions to the real and seeming threats to our security and well-being. But they were better solutions than most societies employed, and we are getting better all the time.What other nation experienced a civil rights movement, or shifted from slavery to affirmative action as quickly as we did? What nation developed   an economic system so robust that it is capable of helping almost any other nation out of crisis? And what nation gives such aid?Yes, we are crippled by our own brands of fundamentalism (to the point where we can't even make our pledge to the United Nations) and our own economic extremism (preventing us from signing Kyoto) to our own misunderstanding of global relations (keeping us from the racism conference). We are addicted to oil, blind to many of the plights of others, and spiritually confused.But we are also the economy and military that has maintained this soft, cushy society - from no-nuclear zones such as New Zealand, all the way across the hated USA and over to Europe. We have been the military brunt behind a society dedicated to Judeo-Christian ethical   development and Hellenist idealism. You want the truth? You can't handle the truth.Call me jingoistic, but I'm on "our" side in this conflict. Yes, there are sides. There is the side of pluralism, creativity, and free will, and there is the side of intolerance, dogma, and repression. American idealism has its problems, but it's meant to be about freedom, not decrees. The internet is one of the best tools yet for extending this sensibility.So far, the rhetoric against the United States has come from three main camps:1The extreme fundamentalists who perpetrated the attacks, as well as their extremely under-educated and impoverished supporters2The extreme fundamentalists within our own borders, such as Pat Robertson and Jerry Falwell, who blame the sins of females, homosexuals,   and civil libertarians for the attacks, and who - like the terrorists - suggest that we are being punished by God.3The hyper-intellectual neo-communists of the internet (particularly, the Nettime list from which I have now unsubscribed) who snicker at our losses, and believe that America deserves such an attack as revenge for its actions in Kosovo (saving a race from genocide), or the corporate policies of Gap. All three groups are fundamentalists, who are clinging to a world view that tolerance, interactive media, and - yes - capitalism tend to erode. We are all in this together. Abortionists and mothers, Arab and Jew, libertarian and communist.Take a good hard look at who is attempting to create structures within which everyone can live in peace, and who is not. Which looks more like pluralism to you? Old Jerusalem or Jordan? New York or Tehran?4Introspection and self-loathing are extremely positive when they can be used to make real changes to one's outlooks and behaviours. But they can be crippling when taken too far, or when they're indulged at the wrong moment.Similarly, fist-waving and hyper-patriotic rhetoric seems, to me, like a retreat into the symbols of an ancient war rather than an expression of the values we aim to defend.This is an opportunity take our on-going struggle for plurality and human creativity to the next level. For more consciousness, not less. For the dismantling of a war machine that is, in part, our own creation. For the spread of value like property ownership and democracy, which lead inevitably towards rule of law and protection of human rights. People need to have something at stake.The war will be fought on a cultural and ideological level. We must come to understand what conditions lead people to surrender their free will, and live by decree instead of choice - and then we must fight to eradicate those conditions. We must continue to develop cultural and spiritual tools that help people appreciate the value of human life. We must encourage the notion of free will and free expression, along with the resistance to social programming.We must protect and extend an interactive mediaspace, which promotes collectivism and creativity over isolationism and fundamentalism.It is time to network.
Open no hoursWhat happens to a website when it dies? Normally, it vanishes from our screens never to be seen again. But one webmaster has decided the final moments of major websites should be preserved for posterity. Steve Baldwin, a US-based writer, has been compiling his Ghost Sites pages for five years now, and has caught some of the web's biggest names going under. His favourite, for irony, is the final screen for the British web grocer 24-7, run by the Somerfield supermarket chain. "You have reachedwww.24-7.com" reads the screenshot Baldwin took before the site vanished from the net. "Unfortunately, we are now closed."www.disobey.com/ghostsites.Time's upThis is one for the bookmarks, perhaps. We all know of the guesswork involved in trying to work out what time it is abroad. Timeanddate.com solves that, with a useful world clock page as well as a few other utilities which, for instance, allow you to measure the time between two dates, or find out - to the minute - how much time there is until a particular deadline.www.timeanddate.comIt's a dog's lifeAibo is the robot dog produced by Sony that captured the hearts of geeks around the world a couple of years ago with his automated antics. Well, geeks being geeks, they've taken it one step further - and hacked his canine brains. Aibohack.com now has a series of quite distressing films of Aibos dancing like 70s disco kings, trying a few robot gymnastic moves, even performing in groups of three to Grease. Awe and respect for these tiny hi-tech wonders diminishes with every synchronised shake of their little heads.http://aibohack.comSealed knotNavy Seals are the American version of the SAS - highly trained forces who often work in covert missions far from home. So it's a slight   surprise to find an entire website devoted to their members, and all the fake Seals there are out there. CyberSeals has information on what they got up to in the glory days, and lots of links to (surprising, again) the homepages of former members, where they describe various acts of derring do. But it seems most of the content on CyberSeals itself is listing the claims of the fakes - and it's disturbing to see just how many there are out there, sticking membership of this elite force in alongside their normal qualifications on  CVs.www.cyberseals.orgDepth chargeVisiting an abandoned place is one thing. Infiltrating areas you are not supposed to be quite another, especially when those places include subterranean warrens of drains, tunnels and underground railways. Yet, again, exploring these forbidden areas gives some people a buzz, and Infiltration magazine is devoted to their accounts of derring-do, which mostly seem to take place several feet below our feet. Again, the commentary makes it clear the risks the explorers go to - especially in a narrative to the Toronto subway, which advises tunnel walkers to go wandering while the subway is still active. Utter madness. http://209.157.133.147/Ghost townWhen a once bustling building or factory is abandoned, it    holds a certain fascination for many people. Perhaps it's the sudden loneliness, perhaps it's like stepping back in time.    Perhaps it is because they are rarely, officially, supposed to be in these spaces. Whatever the reason, they make for some fantastic photography, especially when combined with the talents of those who created Abandoned Places. The site's commentary, which describes the hazards the explorers faced, makes it clear this isn't something for us to try at home, but it's still fascinating to gaze from afar at the atmospheric photographs from around the world. http://abandoned-places.com/Pay per surfMost of the internet's content is free today, despite the desperate hunt for "revenue models". Some think the only way online media will work is if we start coughing up for it. TheEndOfFree weblog is put together by several contributors from various fields, including Evan Williams, one of the team behind Blogger. com. The move to fee-paying is one of the most important things happening online at the moment - this does a good job of keeping up with it.www.TheEndOfFree.com
There's a buzz out in cyberspace, a chattering on the wires excited by screeds of libidinous rumour and dirt     being dished. The word is out: if you want to know who did what to whom and with what implement - it's time to     log on.There is, fortunately, no need to tell the Queen Mother that tittle-tattle, lies and scuttlebutt are     currently engulfing the web. Only last week, the nation's favourite grandmother was forced to deny rumours of     her demise when a Daily Mail report that the Prince of Wales had cancelled a holiday due to concern over the     101-year-old's health reached the alt.gossip.celebrities newsgroup and spiralled out of control.Fuelled by the     still circulating tales ofhttp://thisisleeds.co.uk'saccidental August publication of a pre-emptive obituary for     the centenarian blueblood, the story rocketed around the world's inboxes gathering pace and credence.By the     time the whisper reached barrister Nick Cartmel, our learned friend felt confident enough to announce the news     in Newcastle Crown Court - provoking much grief - and Buckingham Palace was fielding concerned calls by the     barrowload."The Palace was deluged with calls and we had no time to search the internet for the original source     of this misinformation, but people certainly seemed convinced by it," said a royal spokesperson."Although the     Queen Mother received the news with her accustomed good humour, it is certainly a strange example of how the     new media can spin a story out of nothing."Examples abound of the internet's accelerating capability to serve as     an ultra-efficient lie machine writing fallacies onto history's hard drive. In June 1997, writer Mary Schmich filled    her regular slot onwww.chicagotribune.comwith a wealth of Polonius-like advice for graduates that began "wear     sunscreen.If I could offer you only one tip for the future, sunscreen would be it." Within hours her words had     been appropriated by persons unknown and forwarded as an email claiming to be the work of Kurt Vonnegut. As     the text's popularity grew, the change of ownership stuck.Today, the novelist continues to receive requests to     reprint the masterwork. Schmich gets emails variously claiming that she does not exist, is an elaborate hoax or,     indeed, is merely a character in Vonnegut's latest book.Online innuendo and falsehood are not solely the work of     clumsy email amateurs, however. Although professional rumour mongerMatt Drudgebroke the Monica Lewinsky story, his rapid-fire, no-time-to-substantiate style has resulted in more than a few     whoppers gracing his site and made him a high-profile target for fellow gossips. Few internet experiences can     beat the war that raged between Drudge andMSNBC.comcolumnist Jeannette Walls last year, wherein     accusations ranging from unprofessional conduct to egg fetishes fairly turned cyberspace blue.Residing a step     closer to the edge is Luke Ford, an online columnist who has made it his mission in life to report the foul     workings of the pornography industry. Ford is frequently derided, sued and even physically attacked for work     that includes an expose of an Aids outbreak among the skin trade's major stars and a lurid tale linking a leading     TV industry figure to the death of a 19-year-old woman."&#91;That&#93; story is one of the few examples where the true     potential of online gossip has been explored," says Mark Kramer, a former National Enquirer reporter. "That     started as a few lines in the newsgroups and ultimately made it into the pages of thepress. However, most     internet scoops are just a string of unverifiable rumours thrown against a wall to see which ones stick."Amongst     the ranks of the unverifiable areHe Blew His Mind Out in a Car, one man's effort to prove that Paul McCartney actually died in 1966, andMansue.com, which claims to be the     only investigative news magazine exposing the existence of the alien race controlling what we humans refer to as     reality.Although such internet-only "reporters" abound, the vast majority of online falsehoods are perpetrated     by innocent dupes who forward messages from newsgroups' spam.From fictitious accounts of missing children to     health warnings insisting that shampoo gives you cancer, check the veracity of your inbox-bound gossip at sites    such ashoaxbusters.ciac.orgorwww.snopes.com.Within hours of the attacks upon the World Trade Centre, a     surge of online activity began generating a welter of lies, misinformation and half-informed rot. Already doing     the rounds are stories that CNN's footage of Palestinians celebrating in the streets was archive material, and     several versions of a falsified prediction from Nostradamus. It's always worth checking 'information' against     urban legends.about.com before making it the basis for a new conspiracy theory - it could spare you a great deal     of embarrassment.
Jason Kottke, 28 years old, is a web designer. He is interested in web design, obviously, photography, and retro computer games. Apart from a trip to China with his dad five years ago, he has little experience of the world outside the small town in Minnesota where he grew up. Although he writes cleanly, he has no journalistic training.Yet Jason Kottke's personal website is one of my main sources of information about last week's bombings of New York and Washington, and the build-up to US military action against Afghanistan. Kottke.org is a weblog: a   chronologically sorted list of commentary and hyperlinks to articles and other items of interest around the web.Kottke.org provides no original information. But where else could I find a link to a dynamic slide show on the El Pais website, showing the flight paths of the four jetliners, and how the two towers of the World Trade Centre collapsed? And a pointer that makes giving a donation as easy as buying a book online?Weblogs are a growing phenomenon in personal publishing. First, in 1996, the GeoCities service allowed individuals to publish web pages without the expense of setting up a dedicated web server. After an initial burst of enthusiasm, most website creators abandoned their sites, leaving the web littered with luridly designed, content poor pages, last updated sometime in the late 1990s.Two years ago, a service called Blogger made it easy for amateur web publishers to update their sites without being forced to manipulate code. Blogger, and other web services like it, have encouraged a renewed burst of self-publishing. More than 10,000 active weblogs exist, and the number is growing. Updating a site is as easy as adding to a favourites or bookmarks list, and a surprising number of these personal sites are fresh and interesting.The suicide attacks on the   World Trade Centre, and the aftermath of the disaster, have been a defining test of old and new media. Despite my own involvement in the internet, I did instinctively turn to television for the first news. But when I tried the online news sites from the likes of the CNN or BBC, they were slow or unavailable.And over the past week, the pictures of crashing planes, while dramatic, have become repetitive. The newspaper front pages have captured the mood, but I cannot wade through the acres of print they devote to the continuing crisis. The online news sites are useful for a quick check of breaking news, but I am looking for something more.And that I have been finding on weblogs. Some, such as Kottke.org and Dave Winer's Scripting.com, are well-established technology weblogs which have interrupted normal service to bring their take on the crisis. A few, such as wtc-filter, Matt Welch's "warblog", and the Guardian's own crisis special, are instant publications set up to cover the story. Most numerous and    powerful are the personal diaries of people in Manhattan - a fuller list is at my own weblog,www.blogorama.com.Only through the human stories of escape or loss have I really felt the disaster. And some of the best eyewitness accounts and personal diaries of the aftermath have been published on weblogs. These stories, some laced with anecdotes of drunken binges and random flings, have a rude honesty that does not make its way through the mainstream media's good-taste filter.Another quality of weblogs that I appreciate: the feeling of author and reader together, equally ignorant, on a web journey of discovery. There is nothing worse than an ignorant Sky News anchor asking scripted questions designed to shore up their credibility. I like the tone of modest inquiry that the best of the bloggers adopt.I enjoy the rants, although the mainstream media has not been short of these. Ken Layne has been on particularly good form: "We can be greedy, dumb and sloppy. But we made the nation that is the defining nation of this world. There's a reason our crappy movies and pop songs are worshipped in every corner of the world: everybody wants to be in this country, with their whole lives wide open." Lovely.But most of all, I like the complexity of opinion and   information. Most of the key weblogs have linked to commentary by sympathetic Afghans, to articles by Robert Fisk, the Independent's resident Arabist. Jason Kottke pointed to an online guide to Arab-Americans, which provided vital information too basic for newspapers to carry.The story is fragmenting, with the attack on the twin towers giving way to funerals, investigations, diplomacy, and the military build-up around Afghanistan. As it does so, the web is coming into its own. What better way to explore the myriad consequences of US military action than wandering through a maze of links, until the certainties of revenge evaporate? The most linked-to item in weblogs over the last week, picked up by more than 50 of the top blogs, is by an Afghan moderate.The web, with its unmoderated discussion boards, is hosting the most hateful rants against Arabs, Moslems, and anyone else associated with the suicide bombers. But it is also, through weblogs, uncovering a wealth of information, a variety of opinion, and a subtlety of judgment. In weblogs, the web has become a mature medium.&#149; Nick Denton is founder and chairman of Moreover Technologies
After last week's events in the US, Microsoft has postponed the launch of a new version of its flight simulator while it removes the World Trade Centre from its landscape database. It also plans to offer current users a patch to remove the buildings from earlier versions.Activision has postponed the launch of Spiderman 2 for    the PlayStation because the superhero fights on top of skyscrapers. Ubi Soft is delaying the release of Tom Clancy's Rogue Spear: Black Thorn, to remove or change terrorist attacks on New York and Washington. And Electronic Arts's Red Alert 2 will be offered with a new cover. The original showed the New York skyline in flames.Microsoft spokesman Matt Pilla said the company felt    it was "the right thing" to remove the twin towers from Flight Simulator 2002, scheduled for its UK launch on October 26. "Obviously, we don't want to have any imagery that would upset anyone."This has become, in the course of events, a sensitive point, and some UK retailers have removed Microsoft Flight Simulator from sale.  The program's high level of   realism extends to the scenery, and while most landscapes are mocked up in a general sort of way, the centres of a handful of cities are presented in some detail. It would be astonishing if Manhattan were not one of them. And since the program is a simulation, not a game, it would be even more astonishing if users could not set the coordinates for the WTC and fly a jet into them.But unlike games, crashes are where Flight Simulator's attempt to be as realistic as possible comes to a halt.
This is the big one. Microsoft has spent the past 16 years trying to escape from its past, and the next version     of Windows - dubbed XP for eXPerience - could finally kill off the Microsoft Disk Operating System, MS-DOS.With     XP, hundreds of millions of home computer users are being invited to move to a brave new world where their PCs     are more powerful, easier to use, and almost never crash. Whether they will like it or not is another matter.So     far, most PC users have declined all Microsoft's attempts to improve their lot. No one wanted Xenix, Microsoft's     version of Unix, in 1984. Sales of OS/2, launched with IBM in 1987, were dismal. Hardly anyone switched to     Windows NT (New Technology) in 1993, even when Microsoft gave it the same "look and feel" as the DOS-based     version.Windows 2000 failed to take over even when Microsoft named it as though it was the successor to     Windows 95 and 98. Windows 95 was intended to be the last version of old-fashioned DOS-based Windows, using     technology dating back to the IBM PC in 1981, but Microsoft went on to produce Windows 98, 98SE (Second     Edition) and Me (Millennium edition). All Microsoft's efforts failed to move a market that it supposedly controls.The problem is that while techies care deeply about the technology of their preferred operating systems,     ordinary users don't. What they care about is whether it works with their old programs, and their old printers     and scanners, and whether it runs their favourite games. Operating systems that don't do that are of no use to     them, no matter how "superior". And whatever rude things are said about Windows, it has always bent over     backwards to work with almost anything, often to its own detriment. It remains to be seen whether Microsoft can     get people to switch to XP, but it does have a realistic chance.First, under the covers, XP is really Windows     2000, and Windows 2000 has been successful in the business market. This has allowed Microsoft to focus on the     next stage: shifting consumers and home users.Second, XP has a new user interface targeted at Noddy and Big     Ears. Like it or loathe it - and I loathe it - it is extremely easy to use. No one would suspect that there is a     high-end professional operating system hidden behind the cuddly mask.Third, Microsoft has put a lot of effort     into making XP almost as compatible with old Windows programs as 98SE or Me.It is not as promiscuous as     95/98/Me but it runs more old software than Windows 2000. But not everyone will find it easy to adjust. Move to     XP and you lose the benefits of your DOS/Windows experience. If you don't know very much, that's OK. If you are     a "power user" who has spent a decade tweaking earlier versions, you may find it frustrating.One problem with     the Noddy interface is that Microsoft has not provided an alternative. Originally there were two interfaces: one     for home users, and one for business users. During the long testing stage, however, Watercooler, the business     interface, was dropped.Now both the home and professional versions of XP have the same interface, codenamed     Luna. Some people love it, but it makes me feel like putting on some new age music and dancing around with a     tambourine. It just doesn't look or feel businesslike. In the long run, this won't matter much: everyone will be able     to have the "look and feel" they want.The user interface is not the operating system, it is just a shell. XP is, in     effect, "skinnable", so there is almost no limit to the possibilities. The sort of people who have a dozen different     skins to change the appearance of their MP3 player, or whatever, will be able to have a dozen skins for XP. And     although Microsoft will not ship XP with a choice, there will be alternatives in the accompanying Plus Pack.Another problem is that XP's ease of use works to Microsoft's advantage. For example, when you log on, you will     obviously want Microsoft Messenger to start up so that you can send instant messages or do some video     conferencing. When you load the Outlook Express email software, or one of the two browsers supplied, Internet     Explorer and MSN Explorer, you may want to go to Microsoft's MSN portal or use Microsoft's Hotmail. And so on.It is clearly a benefit to consumers to have these extra facilities included, and Microsoft is following industry     standard practice in adding functionality to the operating system. It is also easy to install an alternative     messaging system, a different media player, a new email program, or whatever.There are lots of alternatives     available on the web. Nonetheless, the line of least resistance invariably leads straight to Microsoft, and rivals     and anti-trust enforcers think this gives the company an unfair advantage.Whether anything will be done about it     is another matter: PC manufacturers are already taking orders for machines running XP, and the production lines     are churning out retail packages for the consumer launch on October 25. The whole computer industry is     desperately seeking something to boost sales, and a lot of money is riding on XP kicking off another profitable     upgrade cycle. Any changes now would raise howls of pain from some of America's biggest employers and most     successful exporters.But this is not a reason to buy XP. How attractive it is will depend on the kind of user you     are, and the sort of upgrade you need. If you are a new or non-technical user and you plan to buy a new PC, you     should almost certainly go for Windows XP rather than Me. It is easier to use, it is much better at multi-tasking     (running several programs at once), much better at networking, and a lot more robust. Also, buying a new PC     means you don't have to worry about XP's "activation" feature, which is intended to reduce piracy.When     pre-installed, XP does not need to be activated either online or by phoning Microsoft, because it is already locked     to that PC. If you are a Windows user, the choice is harder. You will need to check your hardware and peripherals     to see if they are compatible and find out whether it will run all the programs you need. Any PC up to two years     old (ie produced since Windows 2000 appeared) and from a reputable supplier should be OK. You will enjoy the     extra reliability, though the benefits may not be worth the high upgrade cost. You can usefully upgrade an     existing PC if it is compatible and has a 400MHz or faster processor and at least 128MB of memory. (Memory is     amazingly cheap now so it helps to buy more.)Installing XP takes about an hour but in my experience is painless.     You will not be able to retain your current system, such as Windows 98SE, and "dual boot" unless you install XP on     a separate hard disk partition.However, you will be able to uninstall it, and go back to where you were, if you     don't like it. If you want to buy a new PC anyway, XP includes a neat "transfer wizard" that will bring over your     preferences and settings from the old machine.If you share a PC, XP helps by making people log on separately     and keeping their stuff separate. Users can leave programs running while switching quickly between different     identities. If you are an experienced Windows 2000 user, XP is not worth the money, unless you really like the     Luna interface.Even then, bear in mind that the fancy graphics effects, drop shadows and pretty animations     consume processor power that could be more usefully employed doing real work. Luna is highly configurable, of     course, but if you are going to spend hours tweaking it to work faster then why buy it in the first place?The     final question is which version to buy: the Home Edition or the Professional Edition. The differences are explained     on the independent Windows Supersite atwww.winsupersite.com/showcase/windowsxp_home_pro.asp.Microsoft's     problem is that it is replacing a cheap and cheerful operating system with a much more expensive one. It has     therefore tried to make the Home edition attractive to consumers, but not so attractive that business users     decide they do not need to pay the full price for the professional version. To do this, it has removed some     business functionality: the word Microsoft uses is "simplified".But rather than being grateful for a half-price     Windows 2000, most consumers will see what looks like a nasty price increase, because XP Home Edition costs     more than they would have paid for Windows Me. Although buyers will get more for the extra money, almost     everybody else in the PC industry is giving them more for less money. And while we do not know how much PC     manufacturers will actually pay for licences to install XP, the cost of the operating system seems likely to     represent a higher proportion of the final selling price.Since Microsoft has one of the biggest profit margins in     history and is sitting on a huge mountain of cash, this will not win it many friends and may prove to be a tactical     mistake. No doubt the whole PC industry would benefit from junking the limitations of its clunky heritage in     MS-DOS. If so, Microsoft could have priced XP to encourage the move, rather than maximising its own short-term     profits.
How secure is the internet?It is disgustingly bad, and Microsoft seems to be part of the problem rather than part of the solution! They are selling in more and more systems but pay no attention to detail and only seem to care about money. They don't seem to mind that their system is so insecure that they have to release a patch every two weeks! I pity those poor NT owners that have to spend days going through all the security patches trying to keep updated.Is the net fulfilling its early promise?Yes, although I still think there is a long way to go in terms of security. Companies still need to pay more attention to security and not have so many holes in their systems. They are a big target and there are a lot of people out there hammering on Microsoft systems. There is something fundamentally flawed with their operating system and until they get that fixed and design from the ground up with security in mind, rather than convenience, there will be the opportunity to exploit those systems. All it takes is for someone scanning the IP address to find and exploit the service. There are a lot of dangerous scripts out there on the net right now.Is it ironic that your new product is a firewall?A lot of us "old-timers" have gone over to the other side in as much as I consider myself an active member of a clean-up crew for the internet.The CrunchBoxitself is a very proactive device and can be programmed to satisfy any company's security policy. It can also be programmed to do some pretty nasty things, should you want it to... like hack back! I feel sorry for the poor script-kiddie that runs into a CrunchBox defending an IP address. They are gonna be in for a nasty surprise!Are you disappointed that hacking has become so malicious?It has certainly achieved a lot of notoriety in the press recently, and when I was doing it nobody knew about anything. I could have a blue box (seewww.usc.edu/~douglast/202/lecture9/lbb.html) in my hand, wave it in front of a cop and he would not know what it was. In the early days,Steve Wozniakgot caught in a pay phone with one and he told the cop it was a synthesizer. The cop told him it was out of tune, needed calibrating and that anyway a guy called Robert Moog had beaten him to it!What computers were you using back then?The Apple IIwas the first computer I got my hands on. I built my own one with my own operating system but it didn't do very much! Nowadays I have moved over to Linux, which is getting a lot more popular. Linux with anApache web servercannot be beaten for performance. The German government has completely removed all Microsoft products from their server lines and China won't even allow them to be used!Favourite sites?www.securityfocus.comandwww.whitehats.comVisit:www.webcrunchers.com/crunch
Peace mailIt has often been claimed that the internet has played a large part in turning Earth into a global     village and that has never been truer than last Tuesday.No doubt, like many of your readers, I am a member of     newsgroups, email lists, Delphi forums and other internet-related activities where I talk - and often loudly argue -     with people from across the world. I will never meet most of these people, I will never even know what they look     like, but does that diminish the contact we share? Is it harsh to call them friends just because I've never had a     pint with them or been to their home? I think the activities of last week will show the answer to be no.Many were     swapping eye-witness accounts of what happened, others were voicing their concerns for list members in the New     York area to get in touch, and many did. Some did not. Saddest of all though were the people who should have     been in the building and were not, posting messages of guilt and remorse. This was technology doing what it does     best - helping people to communicate, to remove barriers between people. There have been concerns about     technology dehumanising people, but the internet response to last week's tragedy showed that it may be the     opposite.Perhaps when we all know each other, even if it is only through email, there will not be another     September 11.Craig McGillcraig@its-a-secret.demon.co.ukRadio dazePat Kane (Second Sight, September 13)     doesn't get out enough! There is a long-established active community of "wireless" users who communicate freely     worldwide, home-brewing when relevant, using commercial kit when not. They are called radio amateurs. For a     modest investment in self-development and hardware, Pat can join. The investment is likely to be much less than     to contribute effectively to, say, open-source software development.There are strong parallels with the     computing community: much serious development has originated from amateur work. The short-wave bands were     considered useless by officialdom and so the amateurs were allowed to play with them. Governments of all     colours understand (and often fear) the consequences of allowing their citizens uncontrolled communication. The     groups that Pat Kane might feel most at home with are those encouraging use of home-brew equipment and low     power. Think of it as the equivalent of: "You don't need to be Microsoft to write a good application."Think of the     satisfaction of talking round the world with £10 worth of components and a reel of Woollies' bell wire! Some     ingenious amateurs have found good uses for old satellite TV gear; better than the original ones of watching     sport and porn, anyway. Try the RSGB website atwww.rsgb.org. We've come a long way since Hancock.Bob   Margolisbob.margolis@ntlworld.comEasy accessIn response to Jack Schofield's plug of the expensive and     proprietary remote-access software GoToMyPC (Web watch September 13), I would like to point out a zero cost,     open-source equivalent. It is called Virtual Network Computer, which can be found atwww.uk.research.att.com/vncand allows you to broadcast your Windows, Linux or Unix desktop across the     network.Displaying graphical applications remotely is old hat to Unix/Linux users. We have had the ability since     the 80s. It is only in the impoverished Windows world where this is seen as a novel idea.Dr Tristan Roddistristan@roddis.orgCaved inWhile it is possible to record CD quality music on a PC, Patrick Steel's article,     Bedroom artists rock the internet (Online, September 13) is misleading. A £500 PC is unlikely to be suitable for     audio recording. A specialist audio card is also required that would double the cost. A Shure SM58 is not a     suitable microphone for studio recording, and Steinberg software is not ahead of the competition, especially for     PC. Other ancillary equipment is invariably required for CD quality. Oh, and you might be in need of an excellent     musician or two.Nick Clubeclubenic@exchange.uk.ml.comSteel refers to PC audio software by Steinberg and     Cakewalk as being "bottom end" at £250. I have used many different all-in-one audio packages and by far the best     program I have come across is a freeware program called Buzz. It is on a different level compared to products by     Steinberg, Cakewalk etc. Log on towww.buzz machines.com.Aaron Woodsawoods@mariecurie.org.ukI would     imagine the only eyebrows raised at the news that Nick Cave had recorded his latest album at home on his iMac     were Cave's himself. If Patrick Steel had paid a little more attention, he would have realised that Cave wrote his     album on an iMac rather than on numerous reams of paper as he used to, and that the album was recorded for     the most part at Abbey Road.Lee Fisherdubversion@yesmate.com
Byte sizeI run a photographic library and need to send a large file to clients in America. They have asked us to put the image on our website or an FTP server so they can download it. Could you tell me where I can find information about how to do   this, and why it might be better than just emailing the image?Jason Hawkeswww.jasonhawkes.comJack Schofield replies:Email was designed to send small texts and is an inefficient, inconvenient and insecure way of sending large binary files. To send them by email, they have to be encoded, which makes them larger. Also, you may have to split them into a series of smaller files so as not to clog up mail servers. This is tedious. However, with FTP (file transfer protocol), you can upload and download large files quickly, securely and conveniently. In this case, "large" can be 100 megabytes or more, though 5MB is a more common size.There are two ways to approach FTP. The first is to use a commercial host's FTP file space, which is much the same as using commercial web space. You use an FTP client program to upload the file to the host's server, and the recipient uses an FTP   client to download it.The second way is to do the file transfer directly, peer-to-peer. You can run an FTP server on a home computer and someone else can use FTP client software to connect to the server and download the file.For a selection of free FTP clients for Windows, seewww.webattack.com/Freeware/network/fwftp.shtml; for free FTP servers, seewww.webattack.com/Freeware/server/fwftpserver.shtml. War FTP is a popular server for Windows. There is a tutorial on how to install it at http://g-lea.tamu. edu/warftpd.htm . Also, for a beginner's guide to FTP, seewww.ftpplanet.com/ftpresources/ftpmain.htmHowever, for sharing small files (less than 5MB),Yahoo's Briefcase systemis easier than FTP, and for your application,Streamloadmight be the best choice. You can upload as many files as you like, and "beam" them straight to one or more clients' accounts. You can try the system by signing up as a freeloader.For MacsCan you please suggest a Mac program equivalent to the SmartFTP recommended in your last   column? I find Fetch confusing.Jack Gordonjlgordon@dircon.co.ukJS:Start by trying FTP Wizard: it makes the Fetch FTP client easier to use, and it is free. You can download it fromwww.cyberkare.com/products.htmlOtherwise there does not seem to be a wealth of high-quality free FTP programs for the Mac, unless readers can recommend one.Fetchcosts $25, and the main rivals are slightly more expensive. You could try Interarchy (which was Anarchie) because it works like Finder. It costs $45 to register (seewww.stairways.com). Another alternative isNetFinder, which costs $35.Search meSadly searching the FT global archive for your guide to cleaning Windows only turned up this week's mention (September 6), and Guardian Unlimited is not sure you exist at all! So, sadly, your invaluable article is beyond the reach of those of us unhappy souls who missed the original, and our computers gurn   interminably - unless you have any further suggestions as to how we can find it.Joanna GardnerJoanna@gardnermull.demon.co.ukJS:I suggested searching the FT database ( http://global archive.ft.com/globalarchive/ search.html ) for "windows untidy litter" because it worked when I wrote it and it still works today. Indeed, any combination of words from the original (schofield clean windows temporary internet files) should work: try a few variations until you find what you want. Ask for the results to be sorted by Relevance rather than date, and if an article is more than three months old, click the link for "refine search". This lets you select a period that ranges from today to five years.However, after a heroic struggle, I finally managed to find the article using Guardian Unlimited's search engine. The magic words are: cleaning windows. If you want to set the date, it was July 12, 2001.&#183;For our convenience and continued sanity, couldn't you just put a link on the Ask Jack page?Tony Morristony.morris@bigfoot.comJS: For future reference, the article is at:www.guardian.co.uk/Archive/Article/0,4273,4219755,00.htmlBackchat&#183;Clem Dyehas caught me out for saying thatPower Archiverwas free. Well, for the first six versions, it was a very good freeware program. With version 7 it has changed into an average shareware program. But as Clem points out, there is stillInfo-Zip.&#183;Emma Duke-Williams, Antony Hawkins, John King, John Pound and others wrote in to explain how Jacob Brauner could make his Pegasus email program work with Internet Explorer in Windows. In Pegasus, go to Tools|Options|Hyperlinks and click the button labelled MSIE mailer. Unfortunately, Jacob says the MSIE mailer button is greyed out on his system - it is there but unusable. The mystery remains.
A hybrid new computer worm was last night posing a serious threat to millions of commercial servers and home PCs.Reports of the worm, known as Nimda, were being received from all over the world by computer security experts in Britain who recorded more than 45,000 cases in five hours.The worm contaminates emails and infects websites so that when a user visits a compromised site, the browser can infect the PC. Nimda is thought to be the fastest spreading virus to date. It arrives in email without a subject line and containing an attachment: "readme.exe".Jason Holloway, UK general manager of security software company F-Secure, believes the worm could be more destructive than the Code Red worm that affected 250,000 machines in days. "That was an internet worm and this one is a hybrid. It is ingenious from a technical point of view but it is very, very worrying," he said.US Attorney General John Ashcroft said last night there was no evidence to link Nimda with terrorist attacks.
The end of Fortress America? We have been here before. In 1957, to be precise, when the Soviet Union launched Sputnik and Americans woke to the realisation that the skies above them contained a new threat to their security.President Dwight Eisenhower's response was to create the Advanced Research Projects Agency (Arpa), a new, lavishly funded Pentagon department charged with galvanising US scientific and technological research. It was Arpa that conceived and financed Arpanet, the computer network that metamorphosed into the internet.One the ironies of last week was the contrast between the performance of the net and   that of the telephone system. Anyone attempting to make a phone call from the UK to the eastern United States on Tuesday or Wednesday came up against the impenetrable barrier of continuous engaged tones.It was virtually impossible to get through by phone, yet emails reached their destinations without much delay, and many relatives received reassurance as a result.There was some ignorant reporting of alleged 'internet failure' prompted by online news services such as CNN being temporarily swamped. In fact, although the net was affected by the surge in online activity in the first few hours, the statistics of internet performance suggest that it con tinued to function more or less as normal.What the numbers indicate is that while the network may have staggered under the load, it did not break. And this of course is exactly what it, like Arpanet, was designed to do. Unlike the phone system, which provides no service to anyone after it overloads, the net degrades gracefully. Data packets continue to get through, though the journey takes longer and more are lost in transit. The software tries again and response times lengthen, but   service is maintained. And that, of course, is what one wants in a crisis.In terms of its emotional impact, the only parallel for the events of last Tuesday was the assassination of President John Kennedy in 1963. Then, as now, millions of people felt an urgent need to communicate the news and their feelings to family and friends. But in 1963 the only medium available for this was the telephone, which is why the assassination generated a huge surge in calls.Now, however, we have the net, and the most striking aspect of last week was the huge number of postings to discussion groups and bulletin boards in which people expressed their puzzlement, anger and grief at what they had seen on TV or on the streets of New York and Washington.But although the net came through the crisis unscathed, the catastrophe in Manhattan will cast a long shadow on it. As the US and western powers tool up to tackle this new threat, civil liberties will receive very short shrift. And because the net is seen by control freaks everywhere as a tool for terrorist messaging, we can expect increasingly hysterical calls for sweeping powers to snoop on internet communications and to control what people do online.In that sense, the UK's Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act will be replicated worldwide. The rumours that Osama bin Laden's supporters use data-hiding techniques to bury coded messages in pornographic images will no doubt fuel the frenzy.If it was difficult before now to campaign for a judicious balance between the security needs of states and the rights of citizens, it will be virtually impossible to argue the case from now on, because nobody will be listening.As Bob Dylan put it, a hard rain's gonna fall.john.naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes/
The internet is playing a pivotal role in helping friends and relatives determine the whereabouts of people who may have been involved in Tuesday's tragedy.In addition to support groups and lists of victims supplied by the websites of most major US newspapers, more than 30 independent sites have sprung up.The majority have been set up by internet companies and individuals hoping to bring some cohesion to the search efforts.With potential victims from every corner of the globe and communications proving difficult in the immediate aftermath of the disaster, many people still do not know whether loved ones were killed or injured.The problem has been exacerbated by the difficulty in finding and identifying the bodies of those killed in the attacks on the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon.Most of the websites allow those looking for friends and relatives to search a database of survivors who have also registered.One such site, at http://safe.millennium.berkeley.edu, already has over 28,000 people catalogued. Another of the most comprehensive sites is located at www.elbnet.com/wtc, a search engine that collates the information from  other databases that have been set up.However, there are fears that because all such sites rely on information volunteered by the public, mistakes or even malicious entries could creep into the databases, causing undue distress.In New York officials are compiling two lists; one of identified bodies, the other of missing people. It is anticipated these will also be posted on the web when complete.Popular news sites such as CNN.com are compiling lists of victims as information is received as well as providing other links to other support groups and aid organisations. It is also inviting users to email pictures of missing persons in order to build up a gallery.Several other sites are also providing message boards devoted entirely to discussing the disaster and its implications, as people struggle to come to terms with what has happened.
The attacks on New York and Washington will force organisations to rethink their computer security procedures, experts predicted yesterday.Society's growing reliance on computers and communication technology makes it more vulnerable if systems are wiped out.But according to @stake, the world's biggest independent security consultancy, the vast majority of organisations do not have adequate protection.Despite the devastation in New York and the complete destruction of the offices of some of the world's biggest banks, the financial system has been safeguarded because most of the businesses had designed adequate emergency back-up plans.The banks, including Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs, have been able to transfer operations to other sites in New York and have begun channelling transactions to offices in Europe and the Far East.All their data, including transactions, will have been automatically stored on back-up tapes which will have been kept at secure locations.But Royal Hansen, @stake's European practice director, said many organisations had yet to realise the need for proper protection: "Tuesday's events will focus minds. Although most companies have become almost totally reliant on technology, they have never thought of themselves as targets so they haven't bothered building resilience into their systems. Hopefully they will now have learned their lesson."The internet appears to have survived the attacks unscathed. On Tuesday, there were fears that it would be brought to its knees by the combination of the destruction of New York's telephone infrastructure and massive increase in traffic as people desperately tried to contact relatives or access news sites for the latest information.Although access to many new sites was slower - about 13 seconds compared with the normal average of five - analysts said that internet servers, even those located on the east coast of the US, performed well in the wake of the attacks.This is because it has been designed, since its earliest incarnation as a military communications network, to be immune to the loss of individual parts of the network. If a server in one area of the net work goes down, the information is automatically diverted via other routes. "In many ways, this is a tribute to the organic nature of the internet," said Mr Hansen.As the US telephone network struggled to cope with the weight of traffic on Tuesday, hundreds of people were able to use email and internet bulletin boards to track down friends and relatives feared dead in the attacks. Dozens of websites carrying pictures and details of the missing have appeared since the attacks.The internet may also help investigators track down those responsible for the attacks. The FBI has served search warrants on all the major in ternet service providers to obtain information on email addresses which may be connected with the terrorists.Investigators visited the offices of all the major service providers, including AOL and Microsoft, on Wednesday, and all the companies have promised full cooperation. One executive at Atlanta-based Earthlink said: "They wanted to know what we have on our network, and our logs about this address and if that address has flowed through our network at any time."Meanwhile, Kim Schmitz, a German internet millionaire, has offered a $10m reward for information leading to the arrest of Osama bin Laden.
It takes a lot to impress colleagues with your latest gadget in Japan. But when Roy Tseng placed his new mobile on his desk in downtown Tokyo, the whole office gathered to coo over it.The cause of the excitement was a glimpse of the future of mobile telephony - a video-capable phone. As flash as Japanese mobiles are, this was something very special - a third-generation mobile phone capable of taking and sending pictures at a blistering 64kbps, or six times faster than the UK's 2G phones.Although such a service will not be commercially available until October 1 in Japan, Tseng is one of 4,500 chosen by lottery who are taking part in a four-month trial for the 3G Foma (Freedom of Mobile Access) service and the new handsets.DoCoMo, the company behind Foma and its successful precursor i-mode, is   understandably nervous of the outcome of such trials. And to merit its fears, some of the beta-testers are less than flattering about Foma. Luckily for DoCoMo, enough seem happy to hail the phones and the service a qualified success, for now.Tim Clark, editor of the Japan Internet Report, received his clam-like, camera-equipped FOMA mobile from DoCoMo in late June."I was impressed," he says. "In a hotel room, I got a call from my boss in another part of Tokyo, and he came in loud and clear, both on-screen (full-motion video) and via voice."The video transmission is at 64kbps, not at the 384kbps speed promised for the future by DoCoMo, so it's a bit jerky. But the screen resolution and colour quality is excellent. What's more, the Foma handset worked inside the hotel room, while my regular i-mode telephone didn't."Other testers are more critical, but some point out that, to be fair, this is only a trial. One tester is Roy Tseng, who posted his appraisal in the Japanese newsgroup dedicated to Japan's wireless revolution, L-Keitai."The connect time is longer. When making a call it takes about three times longer to get the ringing tone," he says. "It also takes more time to connect to i-mode initially as well."Battery life is also proving problematic. While in call-waiting mode, Foma phones must be recharged after just one day as the new handsets use more electricity than conventional mobiles.Another tester is Renfield Kuroda who received an NEC-made mobile that uses the latest in organic luminescent screen technology."Connecting to i-mode was a matter of luck and timing. Foma coverage is still very sketchy; sitting the handset on my desk, the signal strength would oscillate between full signal and no signal," he says."Often i-mode would terminate for no apparent reason. I'm assuming that as DoCoMo builds out the Foma network, coverage will get better."It's the same issue with voice connections. About half of the call attempts don't connect for whatever reason. Once connected, voice quality varies from great to terrible."Yet other users have raved about the sound quality.   Other benefits include the handset doubling as a digital camera, an LCD with 4,096 colours, a multimedia software engine for MPEG-4 playback, and removable expanded memory (rather like a Memory Stick). Cynics point out that, at around &#163;300 per handset, some might expect even more versatility from a similarly priced gadget.So far the service only works in Tokyo and will only be extended to other Japanese cities after the October launch. Then the world will be turning to Japan to see if 3G could really live up to the hype. The trials, at least, point to some level of technological competence, but whether there will be much demand for the &#163;45 per month service is questionable. The gadget envy in Tseng's office, however, must be encouraging to an industry that hocked its shirt on the 3G dream.
From Dusk till DawnPC 	&#163;29.99  Gamesquad/Cryo	**The blurb on the front of From Dusk till Dawn's box compares the game to Half Life and Metal Gear Solid. Unfortunately, the only thing Dusk till Dawn has in common with those classics is that they are all video games.This is disappointing stuff and proof that a good script (by Alone in The Dark creator   Hubert Chardot) is no guarantee of quality. Based on the Tarantino vampire flick, you play the role of Seth Gecko (George Clooney in the film), incarcerated on a prison ship crammed full of bloodsucking baddies and oddballs.Your task is to fight your way to freedom, dispatching as many of the undead as you can. You can play from the first and third person viewpoint. But, with the similarly styled Max Payne recently upping the ante with stunning visuals and fresh ideas, Dusk simply doesn't compare.Fiddly controls and dubious artificial intelligence are only the start. The gameplay itself is basic in the extreme, consisting of killing   vampires, opening doors, and, er killing more vampires.And any George Clooney fan tempted by the chance to control the bestubbled sex symbol should be warned - the character models are appalling, with angular features and crude animation commonplace. Even the decent script is ruined by some of the cheesiest delivery this side of Pizza Hut.Initially, the atmospheric environments and simplistic action, along with fast-moving enemies, make From Dusk till Dawn appealing. Nevertheless, play from dusk to say 9pm, and you will realise this is a flawed and unsatisfying game.MechCommander 2PC 	&#163;29.99  Microsoft	***You can generally rely on combat strategy games to have a deeply dull back story, and MechCommander 2 does not disappoint. Rival factions are jostling for position on the planet Carver V. You are a mercenary in charge of a force of armoured robots called Mechs, hired to clear up a small bandit problem.You start off with three Mechs and a dozen pilots, gaining more by buying new models, capturing enemy technology and occasionally freeing imprisoned pilots.Completion of the missions is fun, the units look cool, the learning curve is manageable, and the missions are refreshingly quick. Combat strategy largely involves planning the best   routes, working out which units are most effective at taking out particular enemies, and figuring out how to spend your "resource points".Almost as enjoyable as the actual combat is the planning phase - buying new hardware, upgrading and tinkering with your units, selecting your pilots and choosing the team for a mission.Now to the flaws. The controls are a little touchy, switching between units is rarely smooth, finding avail able spots to jump-jet to is a problem in a tight situation, and it is a fiddle trying to persuade the repair and air-strike cursors to go away so that you can carry on directing the battle. The units can be wilful little sods, too: they will wander off after being told to stand their ground. Five or so missions in, the combat starts to feel samey.Plenty of good things about MechCommander 2, then; it is just a shame that most of them need qualification. But I can say one thing without reservation: it's moreish.  (AB)
When Nick Cave announced that his latest album, No More Shall We Part, had been recorded at his London home on an Apple iMac computer, it raised a few eyebrows. Although home recording has been a phenomenon ever since the introduction of the Atari ST (the first home computer to have a Midi port, which enabled a keyboard or a sampler to be connected to it) it has previously been the domain of musicians creating techno or house music.However, recent advances in technology now also allow high quality audio (using an external microphone) to be recorded cheaply on a Mac or a PC. This means that, combined with the internet and MP3, musicians such as Cave can cut out the expense of a professional studio and need never leave the bedroom.Jay Elwes and Wallace Wainhouse, producers for hip hop band The Method, which recently signed to Bolshi Records, find this to be true. "We record all of our music on a PC, which beats going to a studio because of the money. We probably save about £350 a day which would have gone on hiring a studio and a sound engineer," says Elwes. "We also have 100% control over what we're doing," adds Wainhouse.The Method started out by sending music toPeoplesound, a website designed to promote new bands by allowing their songs to be downloaded as MP3 files. While such a site is a help to new bands looking for publicity, it is also useful to established musicians looking   for feedback. Jim Eliot at Mi-sound, a London-based music production company, who has recently remixed Dido and Faithless, has a similar setup to The Method. He uses Peoplesound's American equivalent,Taxi. "I like to study what the American market is doing, so it's a good way of judging how your music will be received on the other side of the Atlantic," he says.So what do you need to get started, and how much will it cost? Manchester-based IT specialist John Hardie recommends a very basic set-up to begin with. "I would start with a PC, because it's cheaper than a Mac," he says. "It needs to be an Intel series processor with a clock speed of at least 300MHz. It should also have a UDMA 66 compliant hard drive with a capacity of 10GB, and a minimum of 256MB of RAM. This costs anything upwards of £500." Many new PCs now fit these requirements, but it is worth asking before you buy.Then there is the music-making software to consider. While professional packages such as ProTools (£799) are available, Cubase VST (£249) will still let you record in CD quality. Other software packages at the bottom end of the market, such as Logic Audio and Cakewalk, are also available, but the latest version of Cubase has a number of built-in functions that put it ahead of its competitors.   For instance, users of the latest version of Cubase can click on a button marked Rocket, which will take them towww.rocketnetwork.comallowing two users to edit a song at the same time.Although it requires some time to set up, the site also allows musicians to play live music over the internet in real time. Paul O'Brien, a Manchester-based producer, has played music with complete strangers this way. "I had no idea who I was jamming with," he says. "But it was fun."Finally, although it is   possible to make music just using the computer, most people would want to add a Midi (Musical Instrument Digital Input) keyboard, which would require a Midi lead to connect it, while recording audio would require a good all-round microphone, such as the Shure SM58 (£79.99).   Once set up, the system is very easy to use. A number of websites exist to help users too.Steinberg, the makers of Cubase, provide a lot of helpful links to other sites, while free samples of musical instruments from drums to highland bagpipes can be found at sites such asSamplearenaand special effects for your music can often be downloaded free for   a limited time from software companies such asProsoniq.Once your music is   polished and ready to go,   you may want to turn the   finished product into an   MP3 and post in on the net.   A good MP3 encoder is Media Box (around £20), which is made byE-Soft.Stardom is a few thousand hits away.
British retailers are sweeping the Microsoft Flight Simulator computer game off their shelves after worries emerged that the US terrorists could have honed their flying skills using the game.Virgin Megastores and Woolworths have already cleared their shelves of the game and HMV looks set to follow suit.And another computer game, in which players compete to defend the World Trade Centre from kamikaze pilots, has been withdrawn from sale.Microsoft refuses to withdraw the Flight Simulator from sale and has said assertions that the game may have been used by the terrorists are "highly inappropriate, speculative and counter to what the investigators are saying".But nonetheless Virgin Megastores has decided to remove the game from its shops."Microsoft Flight Simulator has been sold at software retailers all over the world for years. Experts tell us it would have no relation to events in the US," a statement from the company said."However, as a mark of respect, copies will be withdrawn from sale forthwith."Woolworths has taken two versions of Microsoft's Flight Simulator from its shelves and has also removed another game, Playstation 2's City Crisis, which had the player saving people from a burning building.A spokeswoman for Woolworths added that the retailer was poised to announce a customer competition to win a trip to New York, but has now scrapped the plans.Music and games retailer HMV is urgently reviewing whether to discontinue stocking the game completely."HMV's policy is not to act as a censor of the products it sells. But in light of the exceptional circumstances we are currently reviewing whether we intend to stock this title in the future," said a HMV spokesman.In the wake of the tragic events in the US this week, another computer game, WTC Defender, has been removed from sale over the internet.Players had to shoot down planes which were heading for the twin towers. If an aircraft managed to get through, the buildings blew up.
Microsoft will not take its Flight Simulator computer game off sale, despite claims that terrorists in Tuesday's attack may have used it to practise their deadly flight paths.But the company said it will make changes to the game.Microsoft has reacted with anger to speculation that the suicide pilots may have practised using the game, which allows users to pilot realistic flights over New York and other cities."It is highly inappropriate and speculative to say the terrorists may have used Flight Simulator," said a spokeswoman for Microsoft."It is counter to what the investigators are saying and is being circulated by the media. The purpose is to provide an entertaining and realistic game. It has to be realised that this is a game," she said."It helps and supports people but will not teach them to fly. We will absolutely not be pulling the game off sale, we don't feel it's appropriate."But she said the computer giant will change an introductory voiceover at the beginning of the game in future editions which features the New York skyline and comments about "how cool" the flight is.It will also issue a free "patch" within the game that will allow users to change the voiceover on existing games if they wish to do so.The £44.99 game, which can be bought on the high street, boasts that its flight simulation is "as real as it gets".It allows the player to tap in the co-ordinates of key landmarks such as the World Trade Centre or the Pentagon.
Over the top"Scumware" has become a hot topic again thanks to KaZaA, the file-swapping site for refugees from Napster. By default, KaZaA's new "media desktop" installs Ezula's TopText software, which is able to add advertising links to keywords on any websites you visit. In other words, it provides a useful hyperlinking feature, though it is a feature that many people hate - especially webmasters. Third Voice was an early example of the genre, Microsoft's Smart Tags the most famous, and Annotea - mentioned here before - is the official W3C approach. A visit to the Scumware site will reveal if you are running TopText or Spedia Surf+, and explain why the idea has become "the biggest threat to the survival of the internet to date".www.scumware.comwww.w3.org/2001/Annoteawww.kazaa.comwww.ezula.com/TopText/popup.htmlIE6Microsoft has released Internet Explorer 6 for those who fancy an upgrade from 5.01 or 5.5. IE6 comes from Windows XP, and the new features include privacy tools, a media player toolbar, and support for XML, the eXtensible version of HTML. Support for Smart Tags is not included but apparently can be downloaded separately. And if you do not plan to install IE6? Go to the page to download Service Pack 2 (a collection of bug fixes) for your level 5 browser.www.microsoft.com/windows/ieRemotelySo there you are, on the way to Albuquerque, and you need to look something up on your PC at home in the UK. No problem: you have a permanent internet connection and have conveniently remembered to load GoToMyPC software for Microsoft Windows. Borrow another machine with web access or go to a cybercafe and you can log on to your home PC remotely. Yes, people have been doing that for years with programs such as PC Anywhere, but GoToMyPC does not need any special software on the client (remote) computer. The obvious drawback is the cost: $9.95 per month for one PC for a year, on the annual plan. However, there is a free trial offer to tempt you.www.gotomypc.comHot airThe 30th Balloon Fiesta  will be held early next month in Albuquerque, New Mexico, and around 900 balloons are expected to take part in one of the most photographed festivals on earth. The official website not only has details of the pilots and various festival events, it provides a basic introduction to hot air ballooning. The event certainly provides the raw material for a gorgeous website. It's a shame this isn't it.www.balloonfiesta.comCheckedIt will be Man v Machine again in Bahrain next month, when world chess champion Vladimir Kramnik takes on a chess program called Deep Fritz. Before that, there will be a couple of warm-up matches: Deep Fritz v the world, which has just started, and a celebrity grudge match. The organisers hope the eight-game championship will become "the biggest internet event in history", with 500m page impressions and 10m unique visitors.www.brainsinbahrain.comWell postedBath Postal Museum, which is independent and self funding, is getting a lot of publicity    through its website. It is nicely designed, easy to read, very well illustrated, and accessible enough to be of educational value (Key stages 1 and 2). And if you like the website, you can also visit the museum. The site does not put letter sorting (packet switching) in an internet context and the links page is weak, but   millions of sites have far worse problems than these.www.bathpostalmuseum.orgOn messageBoardReader is the latest addition to my still-growing set of search engine links. What makes it unusual is that it searches postings on message boards. You have to specify a subject area (such as Entertainment &amp; Music), choose a topic (eg Pop Music), then enter your search terms. An advanced search page adds the ability to search by ranges of dates.www.boardreader.comNew &amp; noted&#149; New version of Ad-Aware:www.lavasoftusa.com/software.html&#149;  Website of the show:www.bbc.co.uk/workinglunch&#149;  Something for the weekend?www.givemeabreak.com&#149;  The White House website has been redesigned:www.whitehouse.gov&#149;  New links for a new edition of Jane Dorner's book:www.internetwriter.co.uk&#149;  Lurpak Butterman online:www.douglasworld.co.ukSix of the bestAmerican footballOfficial homewww.nfl.comComprehensivewww.nflfans.comHeadlineshttp://football.espn. go.com/nflStats and scoreswww.usatoday.com/sports/nfl.htmChalk and talkwww.allmadden.comEssential linkswww.el.com/elinks/sports/football/nfl
If you listen to the critics, you might think that the internet would be a dreadful place for ethnic minorities. It is often characterised as a sort of giant chatroom, where American white supremacists, British bootboys and Italian neo-Nazis plot racial attacks and exchange bizarre theories.In fact one of the more surprising things to come out of the internet is the profusion of ethnic minority sites. Some are designed to spread a religious or political message. Others are commercial enterprises, intended to capture a potentially lucrative niche in the market. One of the strengths of the internet is that it can bring together people with very specific interests in common and nowhere does this apply more forcefully than among ethnic minorities.Totallyjewish.com has been running for 15 months and aims to serve Britain's Jewish community. Managing director Dan Levitt explains: "With a website, we can tap into a young market which is affluent but often geographically spread out." The site has a magazine format, with a mix of news and features and opinion pieces. There are also jokey elements, such as an article on Charlie's Rabbis - a spoof on Charlie's Angels. However, the owners admit    that the most popular sections are the dating columns.The site is currently getting 40,000 people logging on every month. Meanwhile,www.blackbritain.co.uk, has set out to capture the young African and Afro-Caribbean market. The site is owned by Kofi Kusitor, who has also set up a black entertainment site (seewww.Live247.co.uk) and an online shopping site (seewww.blackshopping.co.uk).Traditionally the black press in this country has made its money through recruitment adverts - placed by equal opportunity employers such as local authorities. To tap this market, Blackbritain has joined forces with online recruitment agencywww.monster.co.uk.Kusitor, who claims Blackbritain is already profitable, believes there is a growing market for ethnic minority sites. "At the time of the Stephen Lawrence inquiry, black people wanted daily news from a black perspective. We can provide that." Among ethnic minorities, the Asian market is potentially the most profitable.www.clickwalla.comwas launched in September 2000 after a merger between the Asian Business Directory andwww.rickshawalla.com.Michael Tarat, Clickwall's director of    content, wants to attract the "diaspora" of 20m Indians who live outside India. He explained why these people are such an attractive audience: "Indians live in places as far afield as Los Angeles and Fiji. They are more qualified and better paid than their white counterparts. They identify passionately with their roots: they have western friends, but they may want an Asian wedding.If we can deliver this audience, we can make a lot of money." It is one thing to identify an audience, but it's quite another to provide them with a reason for logging on. The Asian sitewww.chaitime.comfailed this year, leaving investors to cover more than &#163;10m of losses. Former director Seetha Chinnappa says that it was too difficult to provide good content."It wasn't sustainable. It cost too much money to run it properly." Other sites have had problems with content. Clickwalla has abandoned attempts to provide a full news service. Instead the site is filled with information about culture and entertainment. Totallyjewish has merged with a free Jewish newspaper as a way of getting cheap content and Blackbritain is looking for partners to run its news. Meanwhile an increasing number of ethnic minorities are using the websites to forge    and maintain communal links.There is a huge number of sites promoting Muslim goals. These range from the avowedly political Hizb-ut-tahrir (seewww.hizb-ut-tahrir.org), which calls for Islamic world domination to the more sedate theology of www. muslim-answers.org . And there are literally hundreds of sites maintained by the orthodox Jewish Lubavitch site, aiming to bring errant Jews back into the fold. These includewww.chabad.org, which has information on the problems of non-Jews converting to Judaism and advice on how to light sabbath candles.Chinese people, or those simply interested in the country's culture, may get a lot out ofwww.dimsum.co.uk, while followers of Sanatana Dharma may like to visitwww.hindu.org, and Tamil migrants all over the world can find a mine of library resources atwww.geocities.com/Athens/5180.Even a small grouping, such as theKodava Indians, which only number 100,000, are served by their own website, which contains history and even recordings of songs. And there are other initiatives such as the charitable sitewww.indiacares.org, designed to link Indian migrants with their roots. It seems that in future the internet may help to create a genuine global village for ethnic minorities, rather than merely providing them with a choice of electronic newspapers.&#149; Jack Shamash is former editor of the Commission for Racial Equality's magazineConnections
It is often said that only two things in life are certain: death and taxes. Home computers cannot do much to stave off death, but they can sometimes help make the calculation and payment of income tax less painful than it used to be. They do this in two ways: first you can submit your tax return online and, second, software is at hand to enable you to calculate your tax liability automatically.If you have bought or plan to buy the latter then you are in luck: you will not have to get your form in until January 31. If you want the Inland Revenue to do it for you there is a little more urgency: you need to get your figures in by the end of this month. Given that you need to register, receive an activation code through the post and activate it 14 days before the deadline, you are cutting it a little fine.You start by going to www.inlandrevenue.gov.uk and following the links; if you are confident, you can start the form filling at whichever of the sites listed atwww.inland revenue.gov.uk/e-tax. This has links for people with or without accountants and for accountants themselves.You will need to register whether you are using third party software or not, so if you haven't done so then now would be a good time. If you normally submit through an accountant, you could give them a prod about registering, too. They have to register in a different section but the process is similar. You will be taken to the Government Gateway and will need to enter a few details. Have your tax reference number handy: this plus your postcode enables you to sign up. It is a very straightforward process.Once you have your code and completed your registration, you can start submitting details. The IR has its own software, called SA. Systems from Sage, QMS, Taxshield and others are available and a comprehensive list is atwww.inlandrevenue.gov.uk/efiling/sa_efiling/sa_software_forms.htm.Not all are popular: they end up looking like the paper form you are trying to avoid filling in in the first place. One user commented: "The software I have seen looks like it has been specified by an accountant who thinks 
people are too thick to fill in 
a form rather than by someone who is trying to streamline the process."
Nevertheless, as long as the taxpayer has his books in order, most of the software is simple to use. Given that it works mostly in the same way, I will focus on one of the better-selling, TaxCalc, from the Consumers' Association, but this isn't necessarily an endorsement. It opens with a frightening amount of text that basically works instead of a manual.You can then click whichever of the forms you need, which will include the basic personal details form, but there are options for partnerships, owner/manager businesses, self-employment, income from property and more. Not all of the software has all of the optional pages: the omissions are set out on the Inland Revenue list 
mentioned above. These will affect only a minority.Filling in the details works much like filling in the paper form, so you do need all of your financial details organised in the first place. Unlike some financial software aimed at consumers, there is no simple question and answer session asking what you earned, what you spent and on what. The figure work is not left up to you, though; the Tax summary button 
calculates the amount that will appear on your tax bill for 2002 and no doubt will also take you straight to wherever you keep the brandy.Usefully, you can hit the Inland Revenue Forms button and everything appears on the screen as it would had you typed it on to a hard copy form. You can then print it out and send it off as if it were one of the Inland Revenue's own forms or submit it electronically. The software packages mostly do this at the touch of a few buttons as long as you have registered properly.Unlike last year, this year you can bypass the bought software option and enter your details straight on to the web if you wish. This can be a qualified help: one taxpayer told us he submitted electronically last year only to find the IR decided not to send him a paper form at all this year. Since he had forgotten his password, this was a problem, As he already exists on the system he is unable to start the process again and will be phoning for a paper form anyway. Other pitfalls include:&#149;  Getting all your paperwork in order first;&#149;  Understanding what you have paid before and what you haven't. Last year some taxpayers were a little confused about payments they had made "on account" the previous year and as a result their software told them they would owe the IR at least £1,000 less than they did;&#149;  If you use software such as TaxCalc or something similar but opt to print the form and post it, never forget to sign it before posting: this will delay the processing of your form and you may end up paying fines, technology or not.In future, things should get simpler: a company called Blueprint3 is working on software that will allow the IR to send forms electronically and receive them securely, so you won't even need to go to the website. For this year, at least you have a couple of weeks before the first deadline.
US focusI was pleased to read Chris Sherman's article on the "invisible web" (Online, September 6), an issue that has received too little mainstream publicity. I was, however, somewhat disappointed with the US-oriented selection of sites in the pathfinders section, given the significant   relevant activity underway in the UK.In particular, I felt your readers would have been interested in the Resource Discovery Network (RDN -www.rdn.ac.uk).This government-funded initiative works with subject and information experts in our partner colleges, universities and related organisations throughout the country (seewww.rdn.ac.uk/partners/#4for a full list of partners).These individuals identify, catalogue and describe high-quality internet resources relevant to teaching, learning and research. As with the Librarian's Index to the internet, we are not a "pure" invisible web finder in Sherman's terms, but a considerable portion of our high-  quality content is precisely the types of material indexed poorly (if at all) by conventional search engines.The service currently links to circa 34,000 human selected resources and continues to expand with the recent addition of three new subject areas (Arts &amp; Creative Industries; Sport, Tourism, Hospitality and Leisure; and Geography and Environment). Users can access our data through our interdisciplinary cross-search or via our subject specific "hubs" and other services, built around our databases including a news service Behind the Headlines (www.rdn.ac.uk/news/headlines ) and our Virtual Training Suite (www.vts.rdn.ac.uk).RDN is funded by the UK higher education funding councils and the Learning and Skills Council via JISC (www.jisc.ac.uk).Simon Jenningssimon.jennings@kcl.ac.ukChris Sherman claims that a pathfinder is more useful than a search engine for exploring the "terra incognita" of the web. I strongly disagree. Let us take a random example, suggested in the article - Interactive Maps.All of the sites listed on the Pathfinder are USA centric and if those sites have maps of the UK at all, they are of low   quality. However, since I am in the UK (as is the Guardian newspaper and most of its readers), I want a map of the UK, not America.If I use the Google search engine and put in two search words MAPS and UK, then in the very first search I will find the two best on-line mapping sites that deal with the United Kingdom, Multimap.com and streetmap.co.uk, neither of which show up using your Pathfinder.Pathfinders might be good for newbies who have not learnt how to exploit the real power of a search engine by typing in the most relevant words, but they are not as useful or as flexible as a search engine such as Google.Your suggestion that the best way to navigate the uncharted web is as you would navigate books in a library by drilling down is old-fashioned and time consuming. If you think I am wrong, or you think the example is not representative, let's get really old-fashioned about this. I challenge you to a duel!I will take the pistol of a Google search engine and you use the weapon of any Pathfinder of your choice. In fact I will give you a sporting chance. You can use  any and  all Pathfinders from your PC and I will only use one search engine on mine. We can have an independent third party set us the task of finding vari ous web content. May the best method win.Greg GrimerKentonVoice of reasonI read with sadness the farewell article by Douglas Rushkoff in Online (September 6). I was fortunate to meet him just after I had discovered the net, and he has proved a constant source of inspiration and advice.I hope the Guardian will continue to keep us updated with his tours and talks: we need a voice of reason in today's culture of consumerism. Thanks and goodbye.Fee Plumleyproducer@the-phone-book.comHot air solutionWhen we moved into our new home in Durham in 1975, we added a shower to the bath and used a shower curtain. We found that the shower curtain clung.However, we also noticed that if we turned our fanheater/light on, which was over the sink next to the bath, then the resulting hot air seemed to draw the curtain away and that is how we solved the problem.Maureen and Roger Jamesmaureen@marjames.fsnet.co.ukaw280@cam.ac.uk
How important is the computer to your research?In one or two ways it is incredibly useful. Firstly for MedLinehttp://ovid.bma.org.ukwhich I use for biomedical searches and references. In the old days I used to spend ages looking through journals but the internet has made it possible at the click of a mouse. Email is also now indispensable.What computer are you using?I have a Dell desktop and a Sony Vaio laptop. I also have a Compaq iPaq but I need my electronic diary on it, which means my PA has to input everything manually. My husband has one of the collapsible keyboards for his so I am hoping to get one of those to save having to take the laptop everywhere. I think it will be wonderful once the handhelds can run PowerPoint, as that has revolutionised giving lectures.How has the computer changed the scientist's life?It has made the interchange of information much more effective. I am still in two minds about the amount of publications that go on the net because a lot of the information is not necessarily refereed.Will we ever see a sentient computer?We will certainly see more heuristic computers that know in advance to make certain responses if certain things happen. We will also have more personalised computers that can anticipate things we are going to do. As far as a conscious computer goes, or one that enjoys an "inner state", I don't think we will see that. Moreover, even if we did have one I don't see how it would give us an insight into how consciousness is generated because if it already had consciousness it would be in the same position as a biological brain!How do you see science harnessing technology in the future?We will see a much greater overlap between the IT sciences and biomedical science. The most obvious application is with nanotechnology - where you are devising tiny machines to be implanted in the body that can monitor the silting up of an artery, for instance.How do you feel about the cybernetics experiments of people such as Kevin Warwick?Certainly the concept of the cyborg - of having neuronal prosthesis that augment perhaps people with disabilities - is hugely important. If one could give someone who is a paraplegic some kind of power over the external world then that would be marvellous. If it is a question of making someone like Kevin more bionic or superhuman, one should not rule it out just because of the "yeuch" factor! That kind of work is important, as is the development of robots. A more omniscient robot could be adapted to do dangerous or unpleasant things.Favourite websites?TheRoyal Institution siteand for hotels and travellingSeasons in Style.Visit:www.pharm.ox.ac.uk/academics/greenfield.htm
What would it mean to be a wireless idealist? Well, we know what it means to be an internet idealist. In one of his many recent "farewell to cyberia" articles, Douglas Rushkoff outlined the key tenets of the the net ethic: transparency, participation, openness and collaboration. And, as any fool knows, these tenets have marched with the development of the net itself.Whether it was the early bulletin boards that sustained the homebrew hackers, or the values of generous scholarship that shaped Berners-Lee's HTTP language, or the amateur passions that built the Linux empire. It is not hard to identify what Rushkoff calls "The People's   Net": a dot-commons that "fended off" the market imperialism of the dot.commers, like an organism shaking out its parasites.The next extension of the net - into "m-space", as industry jargon has it - is already a more controlled and capitalist affair. It is tempting to see the vast engines of hype for 3G as a determined bid to reorient the network society, away from this dangerous dot.communist nonsense about "information wanting to be free". Dive into the relevant news portals, and there is only the most hard-nosed wireless realism to be found.Take, for example, the muttered debate about GPRS (General Packet Radio Service) - often known as 2.5G, the interim upgrade before the real thing, and available now with Cellnet and Vodafone. According to the business, the main problem is that it doesn't soak the consumer enough. Because GPRS is quite powerful (up to three times the speed of a 56k phone modem) it could easily enable mobile devices that gave users the same freedom to surf as their fixed-line PCs in the office or home.But Cellnet and Vodafone tightly control the kinds of sites you can get to through GPRS: only the branded sites that sit in your phone's bookmarks, with whom they can split revenue. "The mobile operators don't want you to reach any services via the web," says Gilles Babinet, chief executive of the European phone music service   Musiwap. "The operators want to be the gatekeepers," says Raul Chamorro, head of phone mapping from Batmap. And why? Because it is easier to charge for tightly controlled services, and not as lucrative just to provide bandwidth that people could surf at will.So operators are deliberately limiting the functionality of their phones, so that wireless surfers don't learn bad habits. Transparent? Open? Yeah, right. M-space is guarded by gatekeepers who only allow you in through certain entrances, and into certain territories: or, to use another metaphor, they give you a Porsche but only permit you to travel at 10 miles an hour. What happens to the other net virtues in the wireless world: participation and collaboration?Here, the big operators are more hopeful that existing use will be "monetisable". For example, the "snake" game on a Nokia phone is probably the most popular electronic game in the world. The dream of commercial developers and operators is that, when bandwidth increases, Lara-heads will be multiplaying in their palms, lucratively participating like crazy. But there are   many ways to participate on a network: chatrooms, democratic forums, online seminars and the dreaded file sharing. Are these functionalities to be allowed, or actively discouraged - because they are too gift-oriented and communal?As for collaboration, again, that seems like a potential cash-cow, as long as it is corralled in the enterprise sector. The market wisdom is that 3G is hottest for those with "time to kill" (youth), or "time to save" (business). The latter will increase the efficiency and flexibility of its workforce by giving them an "office-in-a-pocket": that is, access to databases, interaction with peers and so on.But what has been the most innovative application of mobile communications technology in a business context in recent times? That would be a draw, between the British truck protesters and the Genoese carnivaleers against capitalism. Imagine the kinds and forms of civic activism that might be enabled, both constructive and resisting, by a mass adoption of 3G phones. These are people with "time to think", "time to organise", and "time to act".It will no doubt happen, whether it is foreseen by the mobile giants or not. But it seems extraordinary that this already existing link between wireless mobility, and civic mobilisation, never makes it into their fulsome hype.So where is the space for wireless idealism? Will it only ever happen through the creative "misuse" of consumers?   The rise ofWi-Fi (802.11) networks - using wireless frequencies that can be set up locally, without the need for a costly licence - is a hopeful sign that it might be business as unusual. That is Rushkoff's Popular Net, reasserting its values from the ground up.Yet I don't hear the same kind of hacker passions coming from the design and start-up community. They are either locked inside the hardware departments of the manufacturers, or they are keeping their noses clean, awaiting their share of a tightly controlled revenue stream.Where is the Mobile Homebrew Club? Where are the committed technomads? I am setting up a website to find out if you are out there -www.sweetnomad.org. We need to raise the level of vision about a "mobile information society", as one company's tagline has it, beyond the brutally commercial models. Let us not leave the next net entirely to the accountants.&#149;  Pat Kane's The Play Ethic: Living Creatively in the New Century will be published by Macmillan next year.&#149; Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
The personal computer market is in trouble, and four of America's top five PC manufacturers are showing signs of distress. Gateway has just announced the closure of its UK operation, and Compaq - which until this year was the world's biggest PC supplier - may disappear completely, if it is taken over by rival Hewlett-Packard, as announced last week.But not all the problems are due to the downturn in the economy or the bursting of the internet bubble. Much of the suffering has been caused by Dell Computer, which started a price war to gain market share.According to Gartner Dataquest's figures for this year's second quarter, PC sales slipped by 1.9% - "the first negative growth rate since 1986" - but Dell increased its shipments from 3.3m to 4.0m units. As a result, Dell gained 20.2% in market share, while Compaq lost 14.4%, HP lost 8.5%, and IBM lost 6.9%. One result is the HP-Compaq deal, but this is not the only sign of trouble.IBM, which launched the IBM PC 20 years ago and was the largest PC manufacturer until 1994, has already retreated from its losses in the retail PC market to concentrate on direct sales and its profitable ThinkPad notebooks. Gateway, which used to be the biggest direct supplier in the US, is withdrawing from the UK, Ireland - where it has a factory - south eastern Europe and Africa, and is now talking to employees in France.All this will have an impact on the high street. British buyers who used to be able to choose machines from Compaq, Gateway (which had its own shops), HP and IBM could find their choice of top American brands reduced to one: HPaq. Things could be even worse in the USA, where HP and Compaq have more than 80% of the retail market, according to figures from the research company, NPD Intelect.But it won't all be bad news. Smaller British and European PC manufacturers could benefit from the thrashing Dell is giving its main rivals. Bob Garrett, marketing director at the computer suppliers Evesham.com, says staff have already been approached by companies looking for alternative sources. "Customers are beginning to think that if the US brands are not as committed to Europe as we thought, then maybe we shouldn't be as committed to them," he says.Andrew Walwyn, managing director of Tiny Computers, says: "I never wish for people to lose their jobs, but the market is up for grabs, and that is good news. I think there is opportunity at any time and in any climate: it's the people who seize that opportunity who come out on top." Tiny followed Dell in cutting prices, and Walwyn says that while Michael Dell "was the person who led the initiative, we both gained market share".Like Gateway, Tiny is retrenching. It is closing its stores in the US and moving manufacturing from China to Scotland. Although labour is more expensive, it saves a lot on airfreight.Still, everyone knows that the PC industry's best days have gone. Companies such as Compaq, Dell and HP used to be able to charge $1,500 to £2,500 for PCs and still see sales grow by 30-40% a year. Now, most people who want a PC already have one, and it is tougher to sell to a replacement market. Because unit prices have tumbled to £500-£1,000, suppliers have to shift at least twice as many machines to achieve the same turnover, with the extra marketing costs coming out of thinner margins.And because almost anybody can start a PC manufacturing business in their back yard, using the same components as brand name machines, the big brands do not command the premium prices they used to.It was glorious while it lasted. Compaq, founded in 1982, was the first American company to make more than $100m in sales in its first year. Last year its turnover reached $42.4bn, earning it 27th place on Fortune magazine's list of America's 500 largest corporations - ahead of Procter &amp; Gamble, Intel, Safeway, Walt Disney, Microsoft, Coca-Cola and many other well-known names. Not bad for something that started with a thumbnail sketch on a paper placemat from a Houston restaurant.But it may be a case of "live fast, die young". Carleton (Carly) Fiorina, HP's chairman and chief executive, was last week talking of using the HP brand rather than Compaq, though some product names could survive the takeover. The pioneer of what we used to call IBM PC-compatible computing could disappear before its 20th birthday.But consolidating their PC operations is not what the deal is about. According to a memo Fiorina sent HP staff announcing the takeover, it is part of an attempt to become the computer industry leader. "For the first time in a long time, IBM will have a competitor that's strong enough, bold enough, and talented enough to take them head-on in the enterprise space."The fact is that although Microsoft and Intel get most of the publicity, IBM is still bigger than both of them put together, and since the 1930s has had a stranglehold on large-scale data processing. It may not be glamorous but it is the stuff that keeps the banks and financial services running, that keeps planes in the air, and delivers food to supermarkets. But having gone through problems of its own, IBM is less than half the size it expected to be. It no longer dwarfs its biggest competitors, and the combined HPaq would have an annual turnover of $87bn - within spitting distance of IBM's $90bn.Eight years ago, when IBM hired an outsider, Lou Gerstner, to rescue the company, he did it by shifting the focus from sales to services. The idea was for IBM to take over as much of the job of running a big company's IT operations as it wants - to the extent that it will hire the company's IT staff and operate its computers for them, if necessary - in exchange for regular fees. Hardware, software, programming, maintenance, consultancy and even financing can all be part of the deal. Today, the services division provides about 40% of IBM's annual revenues.It wasn't a new idea. Almost every large computer company has spent most of the past decade talking about getting into the enterprise services business, but with little of IBM's success. Compaq's moves in this direction included the $10bn takeover of Digital Equipment Corp, a pioneering minicomputer manufacturer, for its existing services business. This is the real prize for Digital's former rival, HP.In Fiorina's words: "With more than 65,000 professionals around the globe in the new HP Services organisation, we want to be the partner of choice in architecting the enterprise. By combining forces, we become a top-tier services provider - offering a true choice in how large companies strategise and implement IT projects."But from that point of view, Compaq is a poor substitute for the services company that Fiorina wanted, and failed to buy for $18bn last November: PricewaterhouseCoopers. Brian Gammage, a Gartner Group analyst, says: "PwC was complementary, but Compaq is one of the least complementary companies it could have bought. This is a defensive move by two struggling management teams."  Not only do the two businesses overlap, of course, some of the overlapping parts use completely different ranges of hardware and software.HP already has a "legacy" business of proprietary minicomputers and its own flavour of the Unix operating system. With Compaq it will get Digital's similar but incompatible legacy business based on   VAX and PDP minicomputers, Digital's flavour of Unix, plus the different and incompatible Tandem minicomputer business that Compaq bought earlier.Where Dell does everything with standard Intel Pentium or compatible processors, HPaq will be stuck with its own HP-PA Precision Architecture chips, Digital's Alpha, and Tandem's Mips, as well as Intel Pentium and StrongArm chips, and possibly others.Previous computer industry mergers, such as Burroughs' takeover of Sperry to form Unisys (above), and Fujitsu's takeover of ICL and Amdahl, suggest that owning incompatible ranges is not a good idea.And as analyst Martha Bennett, vice-president of Giga Information Group, points out, the merged company will still be dependent on its retail channels, not on services. On Fiorina's own figures, services will only bring in $15bn, which compares with $29bn from "access devices" (PCs, notebooks and handhelds), $23bn from IT infrastructure (servers, storage, software) and $20bn from imaging and printing.In the long run, there should be savings from consolidating these overlapping businesses: Fiorina reckons on shedding 15,000 staff and cutting $2.4bn a year from overheads. But in the short term, Gammage thinks employees will be "significantly distracted by internal restructuring" and the resulting "attrition".In other words, people will be watching their backs when they should be watching their competitors. That is not a good idea when the competition includes both Michael Dell and IBM.Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
One place impervious to the march of the web seems to have been the car. Sure, companies such as Veonix supply net-ready car-based PCs for the US market. Microsoft has developed Windows CE for Automotive and Intel regularly brightens up exhibition stands with prototype connected cars.Yet the take-up for such systems in the US and Europe has been slow, largely because systems have to rely on standard GSM mobile phone networks. This means a dial-up connection and slow download speeds. However the recently launched GPRS (General Packet Radio Service) network with its always-on connection and faster download speeds is almost tailor-made for the car.To illustrate how GPRS can get the car into gear, BT Cellnet's m-commerce marketing and development consultant Nigel Dutton has unveiled a Chrysler PT Cruiser crammed with electronic gadgets. For the mobile IT warrior (as Americans call anyone who uses the car as an office) it is a fantasy on four wheels. However, as Dutton freely admits, it is not a real-world solution."What we are trying to do with the Cruiser is to plant a few seeds in the minds of companies as to how they can utilise GPRS to keep their workforce connected."The Chrysler has an Alpine 7x4 inch screen on its dash, which acts as a monitor for the M Series PC (a CD personal-sized model) tucked under the driver's seat. With the PC connected to the Motorola Timeport 260 GPRS phone, anyone in the front seat can use the PC to surf the net or check emails.As there is no keyboard, the   number of sites the user can view is limited to what is in their favourite's folder, and they can't reply to them. Those in the back seat can also see websites via the Olympus Eye-Trek glasses, which place the screen directly in front of their eyes.For serious surfing and emailing, the Cruiser includes a Compaq iPaq and Sony C1VE Vaio laptop, which are connected via wireless Lan to the main system. Owners can even use the devices wirelessly up to 200 yards away from the vehicle - a role Dutton considers could be useful to emergency services. They can also email images back to their offices, which could make estate agents' lives easier.The system is not just about accessing information. The PC's DVD drive can turn a Mondeo into a kind of mini multiplex, while Dutton believes that the economics and speed of GPRS means that listening to the thousands of stations offered on internet radio can become a reality.Dutton is advancing plans to upgrade the Chrysler project. He is keen on adding a Bluetooth wireless system based around a suitably equipped mobile phone such as the Ericsson T39.Another possibility is the use of voice recognition technology to operate the system and enable the user to listen to their emails or listen to sports and financial news.Other mobile visionaries have been dreaming of the day when an in-car diagnostic system keeps tabs on the car's performance and emails details of problems to a breakdown service. They also imagine online GPS (Global Positioning System) search facilities so advanced they can guide the driver to a parking slot.It sounds grand, but will the humble in-car audio player ever morph into an all-knowing connected PC? Kim Adams, consumer editor at Auto Express magazine, is not convinced. "I can see advantages for people who use their cars as offices. However most people want to have fun in their car - driving, not surfing the net."
Not all that long ago, if you wanted a car with an automatically opening roof, you had to be James Bond and you needed to have a word with Q. Recently, in a surprising advance for democracy, push-button roof removal has become available, not only on a reassuringly pricey Mercedes (the SLK), but also on a far more affordable, and quite gorgeous Peugeot (the 206 Coupe Cabriolet). Now you can even get it on a positively pound-stretching Vauxhall - the new Astra Convertible. These days, if you're removing the top from your car by hand, you're obviously working too hard.Naturally, the popular revolution is not yet complete and the true Bondian smoothness of these mechanisms varies according to how much you pay for them. The roof on the Mercedes slips gracefully and silently into the boot in the time it takes you to clear your throat and find your sunglasses in the glove compartment. On the Peugeot, the acrobatics happen smoothly enough, but a little more noisily, and they earn fewer marks for artistic interpretation.Of the Astra's roof-opening mechanism, let's just say that it gets the job done. It takes 30 seconds, from start to finish, which would be an eternity on live television, and, in truth, feels like quite a long time while sitting in a car with your finger on a button. The mechanism seems to pause for a short tea-break about three-quarters of the way through the business, which one would be tempted to see as a touching tribute to the car's origins in the British industrial workplace, except that the Astra Convertible was designed with significant input from Italians and built near Turin.Additionally, seasoned observers of automatic roof openings may feel obliged to remark upon the particularly ugly mid-phase when, with the boot open and the canvas top in mid-concertina, the car looks as if someone has attacked it with a tin-opener.But let's not cavil. The key point is this: the roof gets into the boot eventually - and back out again, of course - without you having to lift a finger. Or rather, you have to lift a finger, but you don't have to do anything else. You can activate the system by remote control from the ignition key, too, which is handy if, like the bloke in the advertisement, you happen to have boarded your train before closing your roof. (It's an easy mistake to make. It's fortunate for the bloke, though, that he's managed to park right beside the railway line, and thus within the radius of his remote control's infra-red light. That's not so easy to pull off, as many thousands of commuters across the nation will attest.)Vauxhall appears to be attempting to do a Ford at the moment - a dance move in which a company with a solid reputation for deeply uninteresting rep-mobiles and pulse-settling family cars suddenly pops out a couple of startlingly whizzy, design-heavy, out-of-character models, just to throw everyone off-balance. Ford has its Puma; Vauxhall has the VX200, a snarling, deliberately unfinished aluminium racing car with barely enough room inside it for a rep's jacket, even if the rep was wearing it.And now this convertible Astra, which revisits an unapologetically ordinary and low-key compact car and slices it about until it seems to be bound for the Italian Riviera. Actually, of course, it's bound in the main for Britain, where the summer traditionally guarantees only between three and four hours of genuine top-down weather per year.Vauxhall is unabashed, though, because it has turned up the extraordinary statistic that Britain is Europe's second largest market for convertible vehicles. Apparently, only Germany buys more of them. Almost one in five of the 240,000 open-top cars bought in western Europe last year went to a Briton.So here's a market for Vauxhall to come plunging into - armed with th equally crucial statistic that women like compact convertibles even more than men do (55% of compact convertible drivers are women).All the company has to defeat is our prejudices. Hitherto, I would hazard, people have not immediately associated Vauxhall with the words "sun" and "fun". Rather, they have probably tended to think of the words "drizzle" and "a meeting with a client in Knutsford".But this Astra ought to turn a few people's minds around, what with its gun-metal trim, white dials, slick leather seats and range of eye-bursting colours. (Troublemakers will want the Verde with the optional red roof.)It has a closely meshed, sporty gearbox and goes about the place in a solid, undemonstrative kind of way. As with many compact convertibles, it looks wedgy and adventurous with the roof down, but that's the easy bit. Unlike many compact convertibles, it doesn't look like an out-of-order petrol pump when the canvas is back in place.Who knows, maybe it could even single-handedly bring about a set of conditions wherein the following sentence could be uttered without fear of provoking tearful hilarity: "Let's go - I've got the Vauxhall outside."
For most of the past 30 years the American chess genius Bobby Fischer has lived in exile following his epic defeat of the Russian world champion Boris Spassky in a contest billed as the battle of the superpowers.But now it has emerged that Fischer may have made an eccentric return to global chess by anonymously taking on some of today's best players on the internet.The British grandmaster Nigel Short said yesterday he was "99% sure" that he had played about 50 games of three-minute "blitz" chess against Fischer on the net - and been comprehensively beaten by him.Fischer disappeared from public view after beating Spassky in Reykjavik, Iceland, in 1972, a match which was almost as symbolically important to the US as the race to the moon. He was briefly drawn out of obscurity for a 20th anniversary rematch by the lure of a &#163;2m prize.But then little more was heard of the man who won the American championship aged 14 - until rumours began circulating in the chess world that Fischer was back, playing chess on the internet.Short, the former official challenger to ex-world champion Garry Kasparov, said he was sceptical when a young Greek grandmaster told him he had played blitz chess with Fischer though the Internet Chess Club (ICC), a cyberspace meeting place for some of the world's top players.However, while logged on to the ICC a few weeks later Short said he was approached by a man claiming to be an intermediary who asked if he would play against a "very strong chess player".Code wordThe intermediary said the mystery player wished to remain anonymous but would give Short a code word so that he knew he was playing against the right person.In October last year Short was again logged on to the ICC when a player approached Short using the code word. He said: "My heart jumped. Could this be Bobby Fischer?"The mystery opponent asked Short to log off and back on as a unnamed guest rather than under his own identity. This   meant that anyone else watching the game's progress on the internet would have no idea who was playing and that the game would not be recorded.Short said the first three-minute game began with his opponent making some "totally absurd" opening moves, including shifting all his pawns forward one square, to severely weaken his position.Practical jokeThe British player thought he had been the victim of a practical joke. But from this poor position Short said there followed "moves of extraordinary power". In the first game he was "totally crushed".Though his opponent's openings became increasingly "cocky" - in one he immediately exposed his king to attack - Short went on to lose eight games in a row.In all, Short said he was to play the mystery opponent some 50 times and did not come close to winning half the games, though he still regarded as one of the best players in the world and is strong enough to have drawn a series of blitz games against Kasparov.When the British grandmaster ran short of time, the opponent would add seconds to his clock so that he would not beat him just because he was out of time.It would be extraordinary if it was proved that Fischer, regarded by many as the greatest chess player ever, had made a secret internet comeback and, at 58, was still sharp enough to easily beat players of Mr Short's class.After beating Spassky during the cold war Fischer made a guest appearance on the Bob Hope show, played a private match with President Ferdinand Marcos of the Philippines and then vanished as sponsors lined up to make him rich.He was stripped of his world title when he declined to defend it and since then is rumoured to have spent time in Japan. He is now thought to live for most of the time in Budapest, his privacy guarded by a circle of chess cronies.Two years ago,    out of the blue, he appeared on a Hungarian radio station, explaining that he lived in the city because he liked the thermal baths. More seriously, he went on to allege that he was the victim of a Jewish world conspir acy and made claims which led to the presenter cutting him off.The Fischer legend has made him a favourite for hoaxers. The ICC believes there are at least three Fischer hoaxers on the internet, which is an increasingly popular forum for chess players. One is thought to be a mischievous grandmas ter, the other two amateurs who use computers. But Short became convinced his opponent was the real Fischer as they chatted about chess and chess history.Short did not ask him directly if he was Fischer but tried to probe him indirectly. He once asked if he knew a certain obscure Mexican player. His opponent replied "Siegen 1970", the place and year of a game between Fischer and the Mexican.On another occasion Short asked his opponent who was the strongest blitz chess player he had ever played. The opponent replied: "If I am who you think I am, I would answer Mikhail Tal." Tal is a former champion who resoundingly beat Fischer at speed chess.When Short told Boris Spassky of the games, the former world champion said he believed it was "highly probable" that he had indeed been playing Fischer.Short's conclusions about his opponent are startling. He said: "Fischer is in my opinion a much stronger speed chess player than Kasparov, which is incredible when one considers that at 58 he is virtually a geriatric in terms of the modern professional chess game."The British player said he decided to reveal the games - even though it will probably mean that the two will never play again - in an article in yesterday's Sunday Telegraph because the rumour that Fischer was playing on the internet had begun to gather strength and would have emerged anyway.He said he would not publish details of the games as Fischer would be furious. But he concluded: "To me they are what an undiscovered symphony would be to a music lover."&#149; The demands of Fischer and Spassky have become legendary. During their epic match, Spassky insisted that Fischer's chair be stripped down and searched, believing that the American was concealing a bug which was sapping his energy. Nothing was found. For his part, Fischer made extraordinarily precise demands about the specification of the chess pieces he would use and about the size and shape of the chairs he would sit in to play. When it came to defending his world championship he came up with 179 conditions and then decided not to play.&#149; Computer technology plays an increasingly important role in the modern game. Yesterday afternoon no fewer than 1,429 players including five grandmasters were playing through the Internet Chess Club (ICC), where Short believes he encountered Fischer. Later this year a program called Deep Fritz which can make up to 6m calculations a second will take on the current world champion Vladimir Kramnik. Garry Kasparov's defeat by the computer Deep Blue in 1997 is believed to have been a contributory factor to his loss of the world championship to Kramnik.&#149; Some of the finest players in the world are behind bars. Claude Bloodgood, for instance, is an American grandmaster serving a life sentence for beating and strangling his mother. Because he must post each move to his opponents around the world and wait for a reply, an average game can last eight months.&#149; Governments have long used chess players. The British chess team was ordered back from a tournament in Argentina at the outbreak of the second world war so that they could work as code-breakers. Chess players were among the team which cracked the Enigma code. The Japanese confiscated chess books from prisoners of war, thinking they were military codes. Some probably were.&#149; Chess is a surprisingly physical game. Kasparov has a team of trainers who keep his body as well as his mind at its peak. While preparing to take on Nigel Short in 1993 he had a training camp set up much like a boxer's on the Adriatic coast. During a 10-match game in 1990 Nigel Short shed about half a stone.
The Clinton administration's attempt to use US anti-trust laws to dismember the world's biggest software company was never an aim remotely shared by George Bush. Sure enough, the plan to break up Microsoft was finally deleted from the US justice department's computer this week. Also removed from the Bush administration's hard drive was a demand that Microsoft stop bundling new bits of software on to its Windows operating system, which is used by 95% of the world's computers. If Bill Gates is smiling, then who can blame him?This was not a decision taken in the interests of consumers. Computer buyers could now see a renewed effort by an unfettered Microsoft to flatten its competitors by simply mimicking any new innovation offered by a rival and then bolting its own version of the software to Windows. If so, it would not be the first time. When a computer maker announced recently that it preferred a rival to Microsoft's online service, Mr Gates's company announced that if PC makers chose to place any competing software on the desktop screen, they had to put three Microsoft icons on as well.Given the Bush administration's general approach to business, it is hard to   shrug off doubts that the $3m in donations that Microsoft handed over to the Republican party during the 1999-2000 election cycle did not have something to do with the justice department's decision. Or that the $100,000 contribution to the Bush-Cheney inaugural fund from the company chequebook did not help Mr Gates's case. A more charitable reading of the decision is that Mr Bush is alarmed by the collapse in the US hi-tech economy and considers the computer industry's fate is tied to Microsoft's. Hence, perhaps, a more benign approach to the software giant at a time when PC sales are down and the Nasdaq falling.Not everyone agrees. Squaring up against Microsoft now is Mario Monti, the European Commission's competition tsar. Fresh from blocking the world's largest industrial takeover, Mr Monti has launched a investigation into the US software group - accusing it of illegally tying video and audio software into its Windows operating system which may "deprive PC manufacturers and final users of a free choice". While Mr Bush prefers to caress the company, Brussels seems ready to let Microsoft feel the firm smack of the public interest. Europe's approach is one to be proud of.
The US government unexpectedly announced yesterday that it would no longer push for Microsoft, the world's largest software company, to be broken up for violating anti- monopoly laws.Officials from the justice department and the 18 US states that helped bring the landmark legal case during the Clinton era also dropped their original complaint against the company's habit of tying software products to Windows, its dominant operating system, in an effort to hurt competitors.In a statement, the department said it had streamlined   the case in order to achieve a quicker settlement and obtain "prompt, effective and certain relief for consumers".But Microsoft's critics and consumer campaigners immediately denounced the decision as politically motivated and strategically questionable.Although most legal experts considered a break-up unlikely, few expected the government to remove the option from the negotiating table.Jason Mahler, general counsel of the Computer and Communications Industry Association, said: "We are very disappointed. But we are even more surprised and perplexed that they have done this as it seems to be contrary to the way the proceedings had unfolded. They have cut their own legs out from under them."He also raised the possibility that the pro-business Bush administration had cooled towards the four-year legal battle. "It's no secret that Microsoft had thrown its weight behind the Bush campaign," he said.However, the Bush justice department has taken a tough public stance on the case.Anti-Microsoft campaigners also believe that yesterday's announcement increases the importance of last week's decision by the European commission to broaden its probe   into the company's behaviour.In June, the US court of appeals ruled that Microsoft had broken US anti-trust laws by abusing its stranglehold over the world's operating systems.At the same time, it overturned an earlier judgment that the company should be broken into two parts and referred the controversial issue of tying software to Windows back to a lower court.The government and Microsoft were due to suggest a schedule for this stage of the trial by next Friday.Some Wall Street analysts agreed that pursuing the break-up of Microsoft would not be in the interests of con sumers. Henry Blodget of the investment bank Merrill Lynch said: "If anything, this &#91;decision&#93; is a slight negative for Microsoft."It's in the company's interest to drag this out as long as possible and the justice department are still going after the monopoly claim."The government also signalled that it was prepared to fight Microsoft's launch of its next generation software, Windows XP, when it asked the court for a further investigation into "developments in the industry since the trial concluded". Critics claim that the way XP works underlines the fact that Microsoft has con  tinued to behave unlawfully.The justice department is still seeking restrictions on Microsoft's conduct which would force the company to give all software developers access to the code needed to make programs run on its operating system. They would also call for greater disclosure to stop Microsoft bullying manufacturers when selling its products.Some legal experts suggested that yesterday's decision made a settlement of the case much more likely after previous talks stalled.The two sides will appear before a district judge, Colleen Kollar-Kotelly, in a fortnight for the next stage of the case.
The US justice department today said it was no longer seeking the break-up of Microsoft and wanted to wrap up the three-year-old case "as quickly as possible".In a statement that boosted the technology giant's shares, the department said it would also drop an unresolved claim that the company illegally tied its Internet Explorer browser to its Windows operating system."The department of justice's antitrust division today advised Microsoft that it will not seek a break-up of the company in remand proceedings before the US district court," the statement said. "The department is seeking to streamline the case with the goal of securing an effective remedy as quickly as possible."The announcement came after a judge ordered the two sides to produce a joint report on their dispute by September 14.The change of tack in one of the biggest antitrust cases in US history ever was not entirely unexpected.  Earlier this year the incoming attorney general, John Ashcroft, refused to give a firm answer when pressed by senators about the government's commitment to pursuing the lawsuit against Microsoft. The case was brought by the justice department and 19 states under the Clinton administration.Today's decision is in marked contrast to what is going on in Europe. Last month, the European commission stepped up its inquiry into Microsoft when it accused the US software group of illegally tying video and audio software into its Windows operating system. The EC alleged that Microsoft  might have broken the law by using its monopoly to thwart competition in the server market.
These are exciting times in Japan, where Nintendo is launching its next-generation console, the Gamecube, next week. The Americans are also getting excited: Microsoft is launching the Xbox console in the US on November 8, and Nintendo plans to follow with a Gamecube launch on November 18. But as last weekend's European Computer Trade Show in London illustrated, things are deadly dull over here.Sony and Nintendo didn't even turnup, and Microsoft's presence was so low-key it was almost invisible. According to Screen Digest, which researches the market, we are not actually in a trough. "Despite all the doom and gloom," the UK market is, it says, "value stable". Sales of leisure software grew by 1.5% last year to &#163;934.4m - a record - and the total is predicted to fall by only 1.2% this year. However, this will leave annual sales roughly where they were in 1998.The UK market is expected to warm up next year. Nintendo says "spring 2002" for the Gamecube launch, while Microsoft says "first quarter" for the Xbox, with insiders tipping March 29. But Nintendo has delayed the US launch of the Gamecube, and Microsoft has postponed the Japanese launch of the Xbox until next year, so even if we   had dates, it would not be wise to bank on them. Unfortunately, this is what game development studios and publishers are obliged to do.At least Nintendo gave the European trade - mainly dealers and journalists - a taster, taking over Westminster Central Hall on Saturday. There were dozens of Gamecubes to play with, and a string of games including Luigi's Mansion (think Ghostbusters), Wave-race Bluestorm, Super Smash Brothers Melee, Pikmin (weird), Eternal Darkness (a bit like Perfect Dark) and LucasArts' Star Wars Rogue Squadron II: Rogue Leader (seewww.lucasarts.com/products/rogueleader/splash.htm).The Gamecube in near-launch state turned out to be more impressive than I expected. This contrasts with Sony's PlayStation 2, which now looks less impressive than expected. Given that Nintendo could sell millions of machines if it made them out of cardboard and chewing gum - if you want a Super Mario or Pok&eacute;mon game, you have no alternative - it should do well.Nintendo's games business is now underpinned by massive sales of Pok&eacute;mon-related Game Boy Color and Game Boy Advance handhelds, and the company is planning to launch an even smaller device: the Pok&eacute;mon Mini. This will measure 74mm by 58mm by 23mm and weigh only 70g. The first games will include Pok&eacute;mon Party Mini, Pok&eacute;mon Pinball Mini, Pok&eacute;mon Zany Cards and the Pok&eacute;mon Puzzle Collection. It will be launched next year.In the absence of new console hardware at ECTS, the add-on manufacturers came to the fore. Products on show included a wonderfully realistic-looking range of guns, a fighting arena for beat-'em-up fans, and a stepper for fitness fanatics.The Dreamgun range of wireless game controllers    from Korea's GameBox has something for almost everyone, from a bow and arrow to an early German machine gun to the L85 Assault Rifle out of Starship Troopers. The sniper rifle, to take one example, is more than a metre long, weighs 3.5kg and has recoil. It is not at all like those cheap plastic handguns sold for shooting games. But you'd better be careful about playing with yourDreamgunout of doors.Both the Thrustmaster Fighting Arena and Happy Diet stepper will help gamers work up a healthy sweat. The TFA has four sets of photo sensors on two poles to capture your movements. You do real kicks and punches to    make your game character perform kicks and punches on the screenhttp://europe.thrustmaster.com/mediaroom/releases/0018.php.The stepper is another way of controlling an on-screen character. But it is just a way of making indoor exercises a bit less boring. The stepper has already been launched in Japan with the Happy Diet game, and could reach the UK before Christmas.The great thing about these new peripherals is their almost unlimited potential. For example, today you might be delighted to use XTecnologies' Ducati Corse II handlebars with their small but cute fairing, but tomorrow you might want to use Yamaha or Norton handlebars. As videogames become more realistic, the controllers will need to become more realistic too.And the winners are:Game of the Show:Denki Blocks (Rage) for Game Boy AdvancePC Game of the Show:Project Nomad (CDV)Console Game of the Show:Universal Studios (Kemco) for GamecubeHandheld Game of the Show:Denki Blocks (Rage) for Game Boy AdvanceMultiplayer Game of the Show:Anarchy Online (Funcom)A panel of European journalists voted for the Game of the Show awards, and presented them at ECTSPC game of the yearBenelux:Black &amp; White (EA)Eastern Europe:Black &amp; White (EA)France:Giants (Interplay)Germany:Black &amp; White (EA)Italy:Black &amp; White (EA)Russia:Baldur's Gate II (Interplay)Scandinavia:Black &amp; White (EA)Spain:Black &amp; White (EA)Console game of the yearBenelux:Gran Turismo 3 (Sony)Eastern Europe:Gran Turismo 3 (Sony)France:ISS Pro Evolution 2 (Konami)Germany:Gran Turismo 3 (Sony)Italy:Shen Mue (Sega)Spain:Gran Turismo 3 (Sony)
Recent films such as Moulin Rouge and Planet of the Apes will soon be available to American viewers over the internet.In a ground-breaking deal, Disney is teaming up with Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation to show recent releases on the web before they appear on television.The US based joint venture, Movies.com, will give viewers the opportunity to download films made by Disney, Twentieth Century Fox and Miramax.This will allow film fans access to a vast library of blockbusters including Star Wars, Shakespeare in Love, Bridget Jones's Diary, Planet of the Apes and Toy Story.But only consumers with a broadband connection will be able to access their choice of film at the touch of a button.The deal comes just 24 hours after News Corp sealed a contract with the Chinese government to broadcast directly in the country for the first time.Likely to launch next year, the website will offer films over high-speed broadband connections, which are far more widespread in the US than in the UK. Viewers will also be able to access the service through their cable set-top box.Both companies have pledged that new movies will be available through the service before being shown on traditional pay-per-view TV.Movies.com will take on a similar service unveiled last month by Sony, Universal, MGM, Paramount and Warner Bros.It is believed Disney and News Corp were invited to join the conglomerate but instead elected  to form their own breakaway company. The move echoes the music industry, where rival groups of record companies are setting up music download sites."Movies.com will be a new distribution channel that provides consumers with an unequalled level of flexibility, quality and choice and we are excited to be at the forefront of this new entertainment medium," said Michael Eisner, the chief executive of Disney.
The days are getting shorter, the tomatoes are ripening and A4 lined pads are back on sale. It is time for children everywhere to don their uniform and go back to school. But education doesn't have to be the preserve of the young. There are plenty of opportunities for adults to join in on the fun. Whether you want to learn a new skill, a new hobby or even retrain for a new career, with careful navigation, the web is the place to tell you all you need to know.For those lucky souls based in London, your first port of call should bewww.floodlight.co.uk/index.shtm, the website that lists all of London's various courses, from antique collecting to wines, beers and spirits and everything in between.There are several government websites that can help you find out about access to adult learning, grants and courses. Start atwww.dfes.gov.uk/adultlearners/index.shtml. Everything you might wish to know about learning opportunities is found atwww.dfee.gov.uk/secondchances/home.htmlwhile atwww.my-ila.comyou can find out how an Individual Learning Account (ILA), could save you money in your quest for knowledge.The Workers' Education    Authority (WEA)is the UK's largest voluntary provider of adult education. Their courses cover a range of subject areas, from the serious - "communications technology" - to the more unusual - "songs that change the world".Learning has no age limit, as proved by the University of the Third Age atwww.u3a.org.ukwhich provides learning for older people. Courses are purely for pleasure and are taught and organised by "third agers" themselves, so as well as learning, you can also get involved and impart some of the knowledge you have gained throughout your life.If you are more of a New Ager than a Third Ager, there are plenty of interesting and unusual disciplines out there for the learning. You may have a burning desire to practise vibrational healing, or cure all ills with acupuncture. And if you want your qualification to count, check out the websites of theBritish Complementary Medicine Association) or theComplementary Medicine Associationto find out which schools they approve of.If sharing a class with others is too intimidating, then distance learning is the    way to go. TheOUis the most famous  and runs all sorts of qualifications but home study is not restricted to traditional courses. You could learn more about your sun sign atwww.astrology.org.uk, or the blues atwww.earlyblues.com/blues_courses.htm.If you have been accused of having a loud voice, then silence your critics by taking the nation's first remote learning course in town crying athttp://homepages.tesco.net/~congratulations. With your own computer and a modem you can learn at home with auntie atwww.bbc.co.uk/educationor go to your nearest Learn Direct centre and learn online with the government's Learn Direct initiative atwww.learndirect.co.uk.So you think you could do my job? Home study courses in journalism are offered by thewriters' bureau, theLondon School of Journalismand theWriting College.The London College of Printinghas short and long courses on journalism throughout the year. If you have a best-seller buried inside and have no idea where to start, then take    a residential course at theArvon Foundation.Summer might be over, but if you start learning that foreign language now you could be fluent by your next holiday - start atwww.nll.co.uk. However, if you have always wanted to live abroad, then aTEFL qualificationcould help you finance that fantasy.Or you might prefer to spend all future holidays underwater.The Professional Association of Diving InstructorsandThe British Sub-Aqua Clubare both internationally recognised organisations that can teach you the basics. Once you have communed with the fish, your life will never be the same again. The idea of scuba diving might be too ambitious if you have never learned to swim. Residential courses atwww.learn-to-swim.co.ukpromise to have you waving, not drowning, by the end of the week.If your life is lacking in fun then a course in circus skills could be just what you need - trywww.circusarts.org.uk/training/classes.html. Or maybe you just need to rediscover your inner wild woman atwww.wild-woman.co.ukor (in the interests of gender balance) man:www.mensdevelopment.co.uk/day_workshops.html.Sadly, after a hard search, there do not seem to be any courses allowing women to discover the wild man inside them, or vice versa. Maybe next year.
Like the universe, the web is full of dark matter. Astronomers tell us that even using the world's most powerful telescope, less than 25% of the matter in the universe is visible. Likewise, the vast majority of information on the web is invisible to even the most powerful search engines. This "invisible web" is not only huge, it is likely growing at a   much faster rate than the visible web you are familiar with.What exactly is the invisible web? Quite simply, it is made up of information that search engines either cannot or will not add to their web indexes.We are not talking about information of dubious value, such as spam, porn or Uncle Edwin's trout fishing gallery. A big chunk of the invisible web consists of first-rate   information maintained by reputable, authoritative sources - treasure troves for the users that can find it.There are both technical and business reasons why some web content is excluded from search engines. Search engines make use of programs called "crawlers" to find pages to add to their indexes. Crawlers aren't very smart - they are designed to find simple, text-based web pages. They generally cannot handle other file types, such as images, sounds or video clips. These types of non-text files make up a small portion of the invisible web.Other file types are crawlable, but user demand is so small it is not worth the expense for the search engine to fetch and store them. For example, many academic papers are available on the web in PostScript or PDF format. But, of the major search engines, only Google bothers to index this kind of file. They are invisible to most of the other engines.The bulk of the invisible web is made up of databases that can be accessed via the web, but that search engine crawlers cannot penetrate. To access information from a database, you need to interact with a form that tells the database what you want. Unfortunately, search engine crawlers cannot type. When a crawler runs into a web page that is the gateway to a database, it is as if it has run smack into the front door of a vast library with securely bolted doors.There are hundreds of thousands of web-accessible databases, together containing terabytes of information completely hidden from the search engines. New techniques are emerging that will gradually allow search engines to peer into invisible web databases, but once these technical problems are solved, we will be faced with a new problem. Most searchers are already overwhelmed when presented with millions of results in response to a query. When currently invisible resources are added into the mix and the number of search results potentially reaches into the billions or trillions, information overload is all but guaranteed.Does size really matter?How big is the visible web, compared to the invisible web? Google, the search engine with the largest web index, allows you to search   about 1.4bn pages - equivalent to a stack of paper more than 100 miles tall. But Google has not actually fetched and indexed all of those pages, relying instead on a certain amount of wizardry to know what some pages are about without actually reading them.Officials from Google and the other major engines readily admit they have not indexed the entire web. Aggregating estimates from several reputable sources puts the size of the visible web at somewhere between 2.5 and 4bn pages, growing at the rate of about 7m a day.What about the invisible web? A widely quoted study purporting to look at the invisible web makes Google look like a veritable slacker when it comes to charting the web.The study, performed by a company called BrightPlanet to help market its search products, asserts that what it calls the "deep" web is actually 400 to 550 times larger than the visible web, containing more than a half-trillion documents.These numbers seem exaggerated, as the study equates raw data from earth-observing satellites and oceanographic measurements with the contents of text-oriented databases, using the convenient device of simply dividing the size of the database by the size of an average web page. While raw data is undoubtedly valuable to some, it is noise to the majority of web users, and should not be counted in the same way as refined information.Indeed, the whole concept of a web "page" is somewhat questionable when you are dealing with content that is dynamically generated in response to a database query. Even when you are dealing with static information, the same "page" has a larger file size in Microsoft Word format than in plain text, and larger still when encoded as a PostScript or PDF file.Nevertheless, normalising for both data type and format yields a more reasonable esti mate that puts the size of the invisible web at between two and 50 times larger than the visible web. No matter how you measure it, the invisible web is much larger than the visible web.The upshot is that using a search engine to find some kinds of information is much like the drunk looking for his lost keys under the streetlamp not because he expects to find his keys there, but because the light is better. No matter how hard you look or how cleverly you manipulate the controls, a vast amount of information on the web is simply unfindable with a general purpose search engine.How to navigate the invisible webWhat types of things can you find on the invisible web that cannot be found by search engines? The range of information is boundless. The invisible web is home to patent records, telephone directories, interactive maps and directions, airline arrival information, stock prices, census data, art galleries, current news_ the list goes on and on. To really get a sense of what is available, you need to spend time exploring.Fortunately, there are pathfinders that can guide you through the realm of the invisible web.Search engines are indispensable tools for navigating the web. But they are almost completely blind when it comes to helping you explore the web's own  terra incognita, the hidden realms of the invisible web.To fully appreciate the riches available on the invisible web, to paraphrase the famous slogan, you must boldly go where no search engine has gone before.Path findersDirect searchhttp://gwu.edu/~gprice/direct.htmDirect search is a growing compilation of links to the search interfaces of resources that contain data not easily
   or entirely searchable/accessible from general search tools such as Alta Vista, Google, and HotBot. The goal of
   direct search is to get as close as possible to the search form offered by a Web resource (rather than having to
   click through one or two pages to get there); hence the name "direct search".InvisibleWeb.comwww.invisibleWeb.comThe InvisibleWeb Catalog contains more than10,000 databases and searchable sources frequently overlooked by
   traditional searching. Each source is analysed and described by editors to ensure that every user of the
   InvisibleWeb Catalog will find reliable information on hundreds of topics, from airfares to Yellow Pages. 
   All of this material can be accessed easily by Quick or Advanced Search features or a browsable index of the
   InvisibleWeb Catalog. Unlike other search engines, it takes you directly to the searchable source within a web
   site, even generating a search form for you to perform your query.Librarians' Index to the Internetwww.lii.orgThe Librarians' Index to the Internet is a searchable, annotated subject directory of more than 7,000 internet
   resources selected and evaluated by librarians for their usefulness to users of public libraries. LII only includes
   links to the very best net content. 
   While not a "pure" Invisible Web pathfinder, LII categorises each resource as best of, directories, databases, and
   specific resources. Databases, of course, are Invisible Web resources. 
   By using LII's advanced search feature, you can limit your search to return only databases in the results list.
   Advanced search also lets you restrict your results to specific fields of the directory (author name, description,
   title, URL). The Librarians' Index to the Internet is a laser-sharp searching tool for finding Invisible Web
   databases.ProFusionwww.profusion.comProFusion is a meta search engine from Intelliseek, the same company that runs InvisibleWeb.com. In addition to
   providing a sophisticated simultaneous search capability for the major search engines, ProFusion provides access
   to the Invisible Web with the ability to search more than 1,000 targeted sources of information, including
   TerraServer, Adobe PDF Search, Britannica.com, NY Times and the US Patent database.Alpha Searchwww.profusion.comThe primary purpose of AlphaSearch is to access the finest internet "gateway" sites. The authors of these
   "gateway" sites have spent significant time gathering into one place all relevant sites related to a discipline,
   subject or idea. You have instant access to hundreds of sites by entering just one gateway site.&#149; Chris Sherman is associate editor of SearchEngine Watch.com and co-author of The Invisible Web: Uncovering Information Sources Search Engines Can't See.&#149; Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Forget Edith Piaf, Johnny Hallyday and Daft Punk; if Gallic media giant Vivendi Universal has anything to do with     it, France's greatest contribution to pop history will be music on the move.Tapping into the rich vein of     enthusiasm for wireless entertainment services, next week Vivendi will launch Universal Music Mobile, a mobile     phone service that allows lovers of melody to listen to new releases and buy CDs and concert tickets from their     handsets. Should it prove successful in France, the company intends to begin rolling the package out across     Europe next year.Jean-Marie Messier, Vivendi's chief executive, told a Paris press conference: "Music, the     culture of a generation, and the mobile phone, the fetish of a generation, inevitably had to meet."From     September 14, subscribers to the service will be able to dial up to hear sample tracks and previews by Universal     artists, listen to news updates and receive preferential treatment and discounts when buying concert tickets or     CDs. Users will also be able to download songs to MP3-equipped mobiles, and Vivendi believes that such benefits     will persuade 200,000 French customers to sign up to the £9.49-a-month package before the end of the year.With the latest figures from analysts Schema revealing that 79% of 15 to 24-year-olds in Western Europe have     handsets and that 25% regularly use Wap and SMS-based services, music via mobile is increasingly regarded as     the killer application that will drive mobile commerce forward. Vivendi competitor T-motion recently launched a     similar offering as part of a premium news content package in Germany, while in the UK, Orange, Cellnet and     Virgin Mobile are all developing a range of dial-in and SMS-based music services. The big question is: are people     are ready to pay?Virgin Mobile has enjoyed some success since the 1999 launch of a free music preview line     allowing customers to listen to 30-second snatches of songs. The service has 400,000 users, but the company's     head of communications, Steven Day, queries consumers' willingness to pay for Vivendi's service."Mobile music     services can attract people who want to try before they buy, check out the latest releases or fill the odd idle     moment, but we have seen no evidence that they would pay for them," says Day."Not only is the sound quality on     current handsets relatively poor, but consumers are only just beginning to become familiar with the technology.     Putting a cost barrier in place now will stifle the market."Availability of suitable handsets also remains a major     issue. Today, Siemens' SL45 model remains the only MP3-equipped unit in public circu lation and - even if the     major mobile manufacturers honour their promises to release tooled-up machines within the year - that will not     be the end of the story. The format has no digital rights management capabilities, and, as a host of new file     types designed to prevent unauthorised use of copyright material emerge post-Napster, early adopters could find     themselves upgrading their phones with alarming regularity.According to Schema, such problems will ultimately     be overcome, with the company predicting that the European market for accessing music over mobiles will grow     to £1bn by 2005. Furthermore, the 20 to 30-minute per track download time required by the present generation     of handsets will not be reduced until mass market 3G services begin to emerge in 2003."In broad market terms,     the £3.8m Vivendi has invested in launching its service is a mere toe in the water," says Rodrigo Dauster, mobile     business strategist at analysts KPMG Metrius. "It is good to experiment, but it will be some time before these     services become a workable reality."
The dark agesYour article - Ninety billion dollar mistake (Online, August 23) - gave a contradictory and regressive view of the future of mass communications. The pipes may be   dark at the moment, but what if we get effective high speed unlimited access? Would we in the UK not utilise our browsers more, instead of the "Oh gosh, I've browsed for 20 minutes, I'd better hang up now as it's mid-afternoon" mentality that now precludes full-scale use of the internet? If more of us had high-speed unlimited access, I am sure the transatlantic pipes would glow slightly.And the comments from AT&amp;T's Odlyzko were just laughably dross. Contrarian? Certainly. Valid commentator? I think not. Quote: "Content is not King." So does he   just appreciate the programming? I think he must be a Flash advocate. Oh dear.But judging by the way BT is handling our communications future, we may be back in the dark ages pretty soon. I live in a well-off part of a well-off city, Bristol, and I have heard from a BT engineer that he "thinks somebody in north Bristol has ADSL." Boding well it is not. And Telewest does not acknowledge our postcode, so cannot do anything.Will Hitchingswill@willsworks.demon.co.ukBusting outCathy Foley's comments (Second Sight, August 30) on SETI@Home and the similar CancerBusters projects in her article on P2P applications were informative and accurate on all counts but one: these aren't P2P applications at all.They are distributed computing. The results of a SETI or CancerBusters work unit are not shared with other client machines in the project, as they would be in a P2P network: they are returned directly to the project's central server.Adam Williamsonaw280@cam.ac.ukThrills 'n' spillsWhat a disappointing feature by Tim Guest (Working the Web, August 30). Quite apart from giving the impression that the term "graphic novels" is something new, he failed to mention highly regarded and better-known sites (to comics fans, at least). Can I recommend a visit to Steve Conley's award-winningAstounding Space Thrills strip, the first to make something of a success of disseminating three frame "newspaper" strips directly to readers by email?It should also be noted that Alan Moore might be under-represented online because, like author Harlan Ellison, he does not use the internet.There are other talents out there far more versed in the web - as a visit to any of the major comics hub sites on the web would have revealed, such asComicNetorDigital Webbing.As if to add final insult to injury, there is not even a link to the Guardian'sDoonesbury strip, even though Gary Trudeau's creation at least is mentioned.John Freemanjfree@dircon.co.uk
Mario Kart: Super CircuitGame Boy Advance £34.99 Nintendo *****"Nintendo thumb" - a digit-aching complaint first suffered by gamers in the early 90s - is set for a comeback.
   The reason? Mario Kart: Super Circuit on the Game Boy Advance - the most addictive and enjoyable release on the
   format so far.The third instalment in the seminal racing series, Super Circuit takes aspects from the SNES and N64 versions
   but keeps the core elements. So expect fast driving, cute, yet deadly, weaponry, and a splendid multiplayer
   option. The main meat is provided by the all-encompassing GP mode that is as compulsive as it is time-consuming.If competing for cups seems like too much hard work then quicker thrills can be had in the time trial, but
   whichever option you choose, the perfectly judged learning curve and deceptively subtle gameplay will have you
   hooked.The races rarely get dull. The leader can never relax as lower-ranked competitors will usually get the better
   weapons and it often pays to hang back till nearer the end. 
   In multiplayer mode, up to four players can compete using one cartridge.However, for the full effect, every
   player will need a cartridge, though the expense is worth it. 
   The GBA's horrendously dark screen does not help, but Mario Kart looks the part. Fast colourful graphics and
   easily identifiable characters and weapons make this second only to Rayman in the GBA beauty stakes. The only
   real problem is the GBA itself. The need to use shoulder buttons makes it uncomfortable to play for long periods.
   Unfortunately, with something as addictive as Mario Kart, this is an occupational hazard.
Big bytesNormal email seems to struggle if the file is over 3 megabytes. Is there a way to overcome this? I have a 12MB AutoCAD drawing file I need to send.Robin Dondingdangdong@msn.comJack Schofield replies:You should never send large files by email, and in my view, anything over 512K is large. The internet has a perfectly good file transfer protocol, FTP, and it is a shame it is so little used. If you need to do this regularly, seewww.smartftp.comfor a free FTP program.Apart from the size, there is another problem with sending files by email: you can   only guarantee that 7-bit characters will be sent correctly, not 8-bit files such as binary computer code. Both problems are solved by small programs that translate the file into 7-bit gobbledygook and chop it into smaller chunks. There are many different ways of doing this (HJ Split, Ace, Rar etc), and the person who receives the email may need to have a copy of the same program to put the file back together again.In most cases, the problem has been solved by the common use of two systems, UUencode and Mime, and by building the encode/decode process into the mail software. Nowadays, most mail programs will encode large files automatically, and split them into sections if required. To do this in Outlook Express, go to Tools|Accounts and select either the Mail or News tab for the service you want to set up. (Note: this system does not work with web-based mail services such as Hotmail.) Click the Properties button and then the Advanced tab on the Properties sheet. Put a tick in the checkbox under Sending, and set a size for file segments. The default is 60K but you can choose a larger number. Click OK and Close to exit. See the help file: "large messages, sending".Files are commonly split to circulate porn via Usenet news groups and the FAQ for alt.binaries.multimedia. erotica provides a good guide    to the technique. Seehttp://abmefaq.net.Everyone who uses segmented files should have a copy of the free encoding/ decoding program,Power Archiver. This can handle the zip, cab, lha (lzh), tar, tar.gz, tar.bz2, bh, rar, arj, arc, ace, zoo, gz, bzip2, XXE, and UUE file formats, which saves downloading a lot of different file-splitting programs.WinmailWhenever I receive an email from one of my correspondents it says there is an attachment described as winmail.dat (3K). She has never sent me an attachment and says her other correspondents do not have this problem. I cannot open the attachment.Mary Morganmary_c_morgan@ hotmail.comJS:Winmail.dat files are a result of Microsoft being clever. When Microsoft Outlook and Exchange server think they are sending mail to another Microsoft user, they extract the formatting information from Rich Text Format messages and attach it to the plain text using Microsoft's non-standard Transport Neutral Encapsulation Format. Most other mail programs show this as a winmail.dat data file. Ask your friend to send messages in plain text format, not rich text. Server    administrators can prevent Microsoft mail programs from sending winmail.dat attachments to internet users. Seehttp://support.microsoft.com/support/kb/articles/Q138/0/53.ASPandhttp://support.microsoft.com/support/kb/articles/Q149/2/03.ASPIf you do need to decode a winmail.dat file, download a tnef program to do it fromwww.fentun.comorhttp://world.std.com/~damned/software.html. Alternatively you can upload the winmail.dat file to http://tud.at/php/tnef/ and have it translated for you.Safer mailIs there any way in Outlook Express that emails can be selected and deleted without actually opening them? Every time I click on an email it automatically opens and I have no idea how I might delete a suspicious email without opening first.Andrew Humeandrew.hume@bigfoot.comJS:Go to the View menu, select Layout, untick the box that says Show preview pane, and click OK. You should now be able to move the cursor through your mail and delete without displaying anything. You can go back and tick the box when you want to read emails in the preview pane.You can also use a firewall such asZone Alarmto lock internet access so that email messages in HTML format   cannot access the net while you are reading email.Mail pickWhen I click an email address on a web page, I automatically get an Outlook Express email blank message form. I would prefer it to be Pegasus Mail but IE provides only Outlook and Hotmail as options.Jacob Braunerjacob.brauner@ntlworld.comJS:Run Internet Explorer, select Tools|Internet Options, and click the Programs tab. Pulling down the Email setting should let you choose any of the email programs that are correctly installed: there are four on my PC, including Ameol. If Pegasus does not show up on yours, try reinstalling it.Bugged by IEWhen using Internet Explorer, I receive messages telling me that "A run time error has occurred. Do you wish to de-bug?" Is there any way of disabling this?Ian Darejacob.brauner@ntlworld.comJS:These are scripting errors. Run Internet Explorer, select Tools| Internet Options and click the Advanced tab in the top right-hand corner. Go to the Browsing section of the list and find the fourth entry. Put   a tick next to Disable script debugging, and click OK.Cleaning upPerhaps you should repeat your Cleaning Windows article (July 12). After my query was published I received email from Online readers asking me if I could send it to them. Obviously of great value.Mary Mooremtmoore@waitrose.comJS:Online articles are normally archived on the Guardian Unlimited website. If you have trouble finding them, try the Financial Times's Global Archive at http://globalarchive.ft.com/ globalarchive/search.html Searching for "windows untidy litter" (without the quotes) finds the Step-by-step: Cleaning Windows article.
The value of the Queen's stake in an internet company she invested in at the height of the dot.com boom has slumped by almost £1m.In just 18 months, £826,000 has been wiped off the value of her shares in online map service Getmapping, which has seen its losses more than double in the past year.The Queen was one of the early investors in the company, taking a 1.5% stake before it floated. After floating at top of the dot.com market, the shares touched a high of 237.5p but are now hovering at around 17p.At £74,000, the Queen's stake is now worth less than a tenth of the £900,000 it was valued at just after the company launched on the stock exchange in 2000.However, she is still making a profit on paper as she paid just £50,000 for the shares when Getmapping was a private company.The company has almost finished producing its Millennium Map, the first aerial map to cover the whole of the UK, and has started to license its maps and data to other companies.Losses before tax rose to almost £1.5m, but the company claimed it was optimistic about the future. It said it was now ready to fully exploit the marketplace after completing the aerial photography of England and Wales.Getmapping also hopes to start selling copies of the maps directly online, with consumers able to print out high-quality copies having paid for them on the site.Sales of its map products were up 521% to £796,000, fuelled by the acquisition of competitor Wildgoose Publishing and promotional offers with the Daily Mail and Mail on Sunday.The company has almost £4m in the bank after raising £6.5m from its IPO at 200p a share last year, which it claims will be enough to see it through to profitability.Useful linkGetmapping website
