Microsoft now has aMedia2Go pagewhich says it is "the current code name for a software reference platform designed to build and power the next generation of smart personal media player devices which enable you to enjoy your video, music and pictures on the go." Meanwhile, Equator Technologies Inc says "it is adding Windows Media 9 support to its BSP-15 line of processors. The devices will support video resolutions of up to 1280 x 720 pixels", reports theWindowsForDevices.comWeb site.
Gary Starkweatherat Microsoft Research has developed a prototype of a new type of PC screen that is 12 inches high, 44 inches wide and curved 90 degrees, reports Kristi Heim of the Mercury News Seattle Bureau. Starkweather invented the laser printer at Xerox's Palo Alto Research Center and won an Academy Award for his work on film scanning.
Microsoft has agreed to give Californian consumersup to $1.1 billion in vouchersto settle a mass of class-action lawsuits. This replaces a deal whereby Microsoft had offered to give vouchers to schools. The Merc says: "consumers will receive a voucher for $29 for each copy of Microsoft Office purchased, $26 for each copy of Excel, $16 for each copy of the Windows operating system and $5 for each copy of the word-processing program Word, according to plaintiffs' lawyers."
Many motorists feel powerless when they pull up to the petrol pumps and see that the price has gone up again. But just because you feel powerless doesn't mean that you are.There is a perfectly legal way that you can cut your fuel bills almost in half - and it doesn't involve filling up the car with old chip fat!The name of this half price fuel is Liquified Petroleum Gas, or LPG for short, and as well as being cheap it's also "greener" than petrol or diesel. But from the financial perspective LPG's main advantage is that it attracts very low fuel duty - an unashamed incentive from the Treasury to encourage both usage and infrastructure development. And when I last visited my local filling station unleaded was 76.9p a litre, while LPG was just 37p.Now in fairness you'll only go about 75% as far on a litre of LPG as you will on petrol, but even so the savings are considerable. A typical family car will travel about 110 miles on &#163;10 worth of petrol, against 190 miles on LPG. Put another way that's a fuel saving of almost &#163;80 a month for the 20,000 mile a year LPG driver, while even average family motorists can expect to make useful savings of &#163;40 or &#163;50 a month.Talk to a real LPG enthusiast, like businessman Damian Shields, and the savings start to sound almost incredible. Because Shields racks up 60,000 miles a year, and he reckons that he'll save the &#163;2,000 that he spent on his latest conversion in just four months. And from then on he'll be fully &#163;500 a month up on the deal. Meanwhile, Keith Hazlett, an approved LPG converter on the Cumbria/Lancashire border, reports that a Range Rover driving customer of his recovered the cost of his conversion in just 40 days.And don't think that you'll never find an LPG pump either, because there are now 1,200 LPG-equipped filling stations across the country, a number that's almost doubled in the past two years. Since almost all LPG cars can also run on petrol (it's called "dual fuel") most drivers also keep a bit of petrol in the their tank, just in case they can't find an LPG station.You can even buy a new car that's already equipped for dual fuel use - Vauxhall and Volvo are leading players - and there's also a government subsidy that you can apply for before you buy the car.For instance, a conventional Vauxhall Astra Club 1.6 16v 5-door is listed at &#163;11,355, while the dual fuel alternative costs &#163;13,215 - although   that price will be reduced by around &#163;1,100 thanks to the grant. So, by the time you've done around 20,000 miles you'll have recovered the extra cost of your car's LPGcapability, and after that your fuel bills will plummet.You don't even have to buy a new car to qualify for a little help from HMG. Visit the excellent Powershift website (www.powershift.org.uk)or phone the helpline (0845 6021425) and you'll soon discover which cars qualify for a subsidy on their conversion costs. Not every model is included, but for those that are even the lowest level of rebate, set at 40%, is pretty generous in cash terms - since an average LPG conversion costs &#163;1,500 or more.Meanwhile, the least pollut ing cars qualify for a hefty 70% grant and these cars also qualify for a 100% discount on the London congestion charge, which comes into force on February 17.If you're getting interested in LPG then do visit the website, because it helpfully allows you to search for the vehicles that qualify for the highest level of discount and also helps you to calculate your own likely fuel savings, but do bear in mind a couple of points. To qualify for a grant you'll need to use an approved supplier and you'll also need to get your grant application approved before the conversion takes place.That little lot adds up to a seemingly unanswerable case for LPG. But if this stuff is so blooming marvellous, then why are so few new LPG cars being sold? Last week I visited the Vauxhall used car website and found just 10 dual fuel Astras on sale across the whole country.This almost total absence of demand is a financial issue, too, because cars that aren't sought after new also tend to be unpopular second-hand. Jeff Patterson, senior cars editor at Glass's Consumer Values, says: "New-fangled technology is always viewed with suspicion by both the public and the trade."Patterson doesn't see the economics of LPG working for many drivers at present.   He thinks that those tempting fuel savings will be cancelled-out later by heavier depreciation.So, does this mean that you should resist the urge to convert? Not necessarily. If you do a biggish mileage and regularly visit central London then you should most certainly be thinking about it, and even if you cover a fairly modest mileage in a thirsty car (like a big 4x4) then much the same applies. And if you're a "light green", who's convinced by the environmental case for LPG, then you're in the market, too.But if you do buy a dual fuel car then remember that you'll still be a pioneer, and that your spirit of adventure might cost you when you come to sell the car. But, then again, if petrol prices continue to climb, it might not.
Chances are that 2003 will be an expensive year for motorists. If insurance premiums and petrol prices shoot up in the wake of a war with Iraq, drivers could be hard hit. So, any indication that they might still find a good deal when buying a car would be welcome news.However, recent reports which attempt to predict what lies ahead for car purchasers have merely added to the uncertainty. On the one hand the latest monthly survey from CarPriceCheck.com concluded that price competition "almost ground to a halt" in December and it estimates that substantial falls are unlikely in 2003.Meanwhile, the Alliance and Leicester monthly Car Price Index compiled with What Car? magazine, claimed November saw prices for new cars drop by 1.8% - the 42nd consecutive monthly fall according to its records - and are predicting that some good deals will still be around for 2003."Dealers have been offering superb discounts to buyers willing to haggle throughout 2002," says Rob Aherne of What Car? "However, margins exist for still further discounting and we expect prices to continue to fall into 2003, as consumer spending shows signs of weakening."Steve Evans ofCarPriceChecksays the issue is one of supply. "The final quarter of last year indicates that consumer confidence is down but the fact is that too many cars will be coming into the market. Manufacturers will be reluctant to see the prices of brand new models discounted because they need to shift them. They are under too much pressure on margins and need to get into profit."A spokesman for The Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders says it expects the total number of cars sold to fall, year-on-year, amid uncertainty about the wider economy and are also predicting that the recent falls in new car prices are at an end."New car prices have been coming down for the last two and a half years," the spokesman says. "There is likely to be a levelling off. Demand is still very high for new cars because the cost of borrowing and interest rates have remained low, but its probably fair to say that prices won't fall more."There are a lot of conflicting reports out there though," he says, "At the mo ment manufacturers are operating in very competitive market. But the best deals are likely to be on models coming near to the end of their cycle and many manufacturers such as Citroen are promoting offers such as free insurance for a year."Steve Evans concurs. "The manufacturers will be really keen to get rid of older stock as quickly as possible, so there is likely to still be room for haggling on these. Especially in the run up to new registrations in March and as newer models come to market."We are also starting to see car supermarkets and internet traders getting better at getting new models quicker and offering deals. I saw one brand new Renault model recently which has been difficult to get hold of on sale at a supermarket for &#163;3,000 less than at a registered dealership."In my view, the message   for 2003 stays the same: 'look around.' If you are not fussy about model, colour or extras it is worth checking out the supermarkets, but even at dealerships, if you are not looking for the latest model there will be room for haggling."As far as used car prices go, these too have been coming down as the average price of a new car has fallen in recent years. Some experts estimate that there will be more scope for discounting on used cars because dealers tend to make more profit than they do on new.So, whatever the conflicting views of surveys, the best advice would seem to be that if you are willing to compromise on a few features and can put the time into shopping around, the year ahead may not be as expensive as first thought.
TheIDG News Servicehas reported Craig Barrett's speech at CES under the headline "Sharing Digital Content Is Your Right, Intel Says" -- which doesn't sound quite right. The intro is more likely to be literally correct: "Consumers should be able to share their music and movies between their different digital devices". (Re-purposingwould be a better word for it.) IDG News also has a brief report ofMichael Dell'sCES speech.
When Dale Ashman was diagnosed with borderline personality disorder (BPD) in 1998, he soon found there was a dearth of information on the condition. Neither his family doctor not the local mental health team could offer him leaflets or books about the diagnosis. Even Mind only had a small booklet that contained a short paragraph on BPD.Fortunately, Mr Ashman had internet access and he soon discovered that the world wide web was awash with advice and information on BPD, which is marked by unstable relationships, disturbed identity, recurrent self-harm and intense anger."It's very difficult to explain the sense of relief that came with the information I was able to gather from the net," said the 32-year-old, from Cockermouth in Cumbria."Yes, I had a serious mental health difficulty but at least I could begin to get to grips with it. And I soon realised there were millions of people the world over who were struggling with the same behavioural problems. Suddenly I didn't feel quite so alone."For many people with mental health problems the stigma and resulting social isolation associated with their diagnosis has as negative an impact on their quality of life as the symptoms of their condition or the side effects of medication.But the advent of the internet has offered new opportunities for service users, with growing numbers setting up their own websites to provide information and mutual support, and mount campaigns on issues such as the government's controversial draft mental health bill.According to the Mental Health Foundation (MHF), the Google search engine lists nearly 12 million mental health pages, including seven interactive forums on depression alone and links to two million messages on the same subject. The charity also found there are more than 6,000 mental health sites listed on the Open Directory project (DMOZ), the most comprehensive human edited directory of the web.While many of these sites have been created by mental health charities, including MHF and Mind, professional associations such as the Royal College of Psychiatrists (RCPsych), drug companies, and service users have realised the technology provides the chance to get across their personal perspectives and experiences as never before.One service user who runs an online mental health directory,Zyrasaid: "The internet is like Speaker's Corner in Hyde Park except it has global coverage. This publicity means that drug companies, professional organisations and government can no longer ignore service users."Dr Tonmoy Sharma, chairman of the schizophrenia subcommittee of the Royal College of Psychiatrists' anti-stigma campaign, Changing Minds, set upEmental-healthto provide a forum for debate between mental health professionals and service users.Although the site's talkboards have yet to attract many visitors, it has organised service user questionnaires, which have informed the decisions of the national institute for clinical excellence - the body that recommends which treatments should be made available on the NHS.Andrew Kennedy, clinical liaison manager at Emental-health, said: "Many professionals are happy for service users to get hold of detailed clinical information as it can lead to more constructive and informed discussion about treatments."Bernard Fleming, head of information web based services at the MHF, said the internet was now the charity's main means of disseminating information to service users. Its online directory,Connect, linked to 2,500 sites, receives a million hits a month and has 9,000 registered users.However, Cully Downer, coordinator of the Insight service user group in Brighton, remains unconvinced that professionals are willing to engage with service users online.Mr Downer singled out the RCPsych's website for its lack of interactivity, but also criticised national mental health charities for only paying lip service to user involvement via the net.He said: "They are still using slower and more traditional methods of communication and are often simply informing their members of decisions rather than involving them in the decision making process."Mr Downer, who set up theNo Forcewebsite to coordinate opposition to the increased powers for compulsory treatment in the draft mental health bill, said service users now realised that thanks to the internet they no longer had to rely on charities to represent their views.This was demonstrated when hundreds of service users organised a protest against the draft bill via email after mental health charities cancelled an official rally last September for fear that marchers might be attacked, due to misguided public fears heightened by the Soham killings.But for most service users, the impact of the internet has been more personal. Dale Ashman, who set up theBorderline UKwebsite, said that many members were now close friends and "there have been one or two relationships".He said: "For many of us, myself included, our friends and colleagues in BUK are the only people we can turn to in times of crisis, the only people we really trust, as they are the only people who have anything like enough understanding of our day-to-day struggles."Ann Lawson, who is diagnosed with bipolar disorder (aka manic depression), added that internet access had widened her social circle beyond other service users.She said: "Finally I have made many friends who are not limited to the small circle of mental health users as most of my other friends are."Others agreed that the internet enabled them to enjoy a "more normal" lifestyle.Rachel Studley, who runs theMadNotBadwebsite, said: "Internet shopping is a blessing, especially when I find it difficult to get out of my flat."I have ordered books, CDs, clothes, presents and even pay bills and sort out my bank account online. It helps me live a more normal life and be more independent."
"Proponents of MPEG-4 are decrying Microsoft's new licensing fees for rival technology, saying that the pricing poses unfair competition and threatens consumer choice," claimsCNet. Comment: The obvious problem for the MPEG-4 standard bearers is that, with competition from Microsoft, they might not make quite so much money from patent licensing and usage fees. (Apple, you may recall, madea noble standagainst the group's earlier, more outrageous demands.) However, there seems to be both confusion and hypocrisy here. First, Microsoft and MPEG-LA are selling different things: Microsoft is licensing software technology and not patents whereas MPEG-LA is licensing patents and not technology (if you want to implement MPEG-4, you have to do that yourself). Second, Microsoft's charges are not noticeably different from the ones charged by Real Networks for its proprietary technolgy. Third, whatever Microsoft charged, it would be attacked. This is now standard practice in the industry. It Microsoft charges more then by definition it is overcharging consumers; if it charges less then it is undercutting rival producers; and if it charges the same it is not being competitive and possibly, by implication, conspiring in a price-fixing cartel.
In spite of slow economic growth, a potential war against Iraq and the ongoing fear of terrorism, there is one part of the USA where the feel-good factor is back with a vengeance. Namely the Las Vegas Convention Centre, home to the annual International Consumer Electronics Show (ICES), which kicked off on Wednesday.After a disastrous 2001, the American consumer electronics industry bounced back last year with record sales of almost $100 billion. And as the nation's electronics dealers pore over the gadgets, big screens and internet appliances in the show's gargantuan halls they positively radiate optimism.Many believe that after years of talk of the convergence of the PC and consumer electronics worlds, the products that will finally bring them together have arrived. It is reflected in the fact that ICES, once a mere sideshow in Vegas, has now become the hottest technology ticket in town, eclipsing the long-standing Comdex computer-based show.In an opening keynotespeechon Wednesday Microsoft's chairman, Bill Gates, set the tone for the show, unveiling products and technologies that deliver homes where electronic devices are networked together and can be controlled remotely.He cited the growth of broadband internet connections along with improvements in connectivity, services and devices as the key to a digital future. Gates also highlighted how Microsoft plans to extend its reach beyond PCs and even mobile devices by creating intelligent wristwatches. These use recently developed software called Spot (Smart Personal Object Technology) to enable the timepieces   to display basic information such as traffic reports, sports news and basic messages.Earlier in the day the major consumer electronics manufacturers had underlined their commitment to home networking by unveiling a slew of new products designed   to take PC style content into other rooms in the home.Philips displayed the second generation of its Streamium hi-fi system that connects wirelessly to a PC to enable the user to listen to MP3s stored on a computer's hard disk and internet radios stations away from the computer. It is due in the UK in the next few months retailing for around £400.In a similar vein British company PDT debuted a portable Internet radio system - the InTune 200. Via a wireless transmitter that connects to a PC, the system transmits MP3 music or Internet radio stations from a PC using RF to anywhere up to 300 metres away. It is expected to retail for around £180 when it goes on sale in the spring.French manufacturer RCA Thomson unveiled a home cinema system complete with a DVD player and five speakers that can also integrate within a home network to access music stored on a PC. The RCA DT750 also features a 20 gigabyte hard drive so owners can rip and store music from CDs. It is available in the USA in the spring with a very competitive price of $700. No news yet on a UK launch.After 20 years of audio on the move, it will soon be possible to view video outside of the home. Panasonic unveiled the SV-AV30, a tiny gadget that boasts video playback via a swivelling two inch screen. It is expected to arrive in the   UK in the summer accompanied by a docking station that enables users to record programmes from their TV, which are converted into the MPEG4 video standard, which they can then view on their device.While the Panasonic gadget uses a Secure Digital flash memory card for storage, Thomson's video-on-the-move gadget - the RD2780 - has an integrated 20 gigabyte hard disk enabling users to take entire series of TV programmes with them as they go. Recognising what is sure to be a key trend for the coming years Microsoft also got in the portable video act by unveiling software for these devices it calls Media2Go.After giving the show a miss last year Sony returned with a wide range of products. Highlights include its first DVD recorder, the RDR-GX7 which can use disc from either the DVD+RW or DVD-RW competing recording formats, and a Clie Palm-OS based PDA, the PEG NZ90 which includes a two mega pixel camera (previous PDAs have featured low-res VGA cameras), Bluetooth and Wi-Fi wireless capacities.It also joined Hitachi and Panasonic in debuting a camcorder that records on to a DVD. As ever the periphery of the show delivered some real highlights. Those hailed as showstoppers include an entertainment PC from the kitchen from Icebox, the first ever Bluetooth enabled cordless phone for the home from Wave Industries.Other hot products included a solar-power pack for the Gameboy Advance, the OrbitTouch PC keyboard which has no keys, just sculpted domes and the I-Rock 730i MP3 player that comes with software to enable users to customise the display on the gadget's screen.
Designer crime has arrived, and as a result the Design Museum has decided to censor one of the finalists in the &#163;25,000 Designer of the Year competition.A bestselling video game yesterday made it on to the shortlist. Vice City is the latest in the Grand Theft Auto series of computer games, all featuring screeching cars and blazing handguns. It comes with an 18 certificate and the warning: "Blood, violence, strong language."The games were designed by Rockstars, a company founded by Londoners Sam Houser, his brother Dan, and an ex-schoolfriend, Terry Donovan. They are now based in New York.This is the first year of the prize for "the UK designer or design team which made the biggest contribution to design in 2002".A spokeswoman for the Design Museum said yesterday that visitors to the competition exhibition, opening in March, would see an explanation of the Grand Theft Auto design ethos, and be able to play other games designed by the Rockstars team, but not Vice City.The museum would show an edited DVD version of Vice City, omitting most of the elements which have made it a bestseller.The other finalists are: Solange Azagury-Partridge, for her jewellery designs, and the range she developed for Parisian jeweller Boucheron; Tord Boontje, for the chandeliers he created for the Swarovski crystal firm and for his mass produced designs; and Jonathan Ive, vice-president of industrial design at Apple Computers, for the iPod MP3 player, and the iMac computer.The shortlist was chosen by a jury of the fashion designer Sir Paul Smith; the product designer Marc Newson; Paola Antonelli of the Museum of Modern Art, New York; the design historian Emily King; and Alice Rawsthorn, director of the Design Museum.The winner will be selected by the jury, but the public will also have a vote, either at the exhibition or atwww.designmuseum.org.
At CES, TiVo has announced that users will be able to network its disk-based personal video recorder via Wi-Fi or a USB connection... but "TiVo will enforce copyright laws via new security technology called TiVoGuard".PCWorld.comhas the story.
The Media2Go handheld digital video player that Bill Gates showed during his CES speech is, of course, the one that Intel was shopping around at the PDF (Professional Developers Forum) I attended in San Jose in September. It has an XScale (ARM-type) processor so you can think of it as a sort of variant of a PocketPC. More details and photos can be found in Intel'spress release. Intel's chief executive office Craig Barrett gave his CES speech yesterday.
Microsoft yesterday took another step away from the desktop PC world as founder and chairman Bill Gates announced plans for a range of products including a wristwatch which can receive live news and sports updates.Faced with stagnant PC sales, the American software group has been expanding its range over the past two years to include mobile devices and other personal gadgets.At the International Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, Mr Gates said he has already signed up a number of manufacturers including Citizen to make watches containing a microchip which receives data transmitted over the FM radio spectrum.The watches, which use Microsoft's Smart Personal Object Technology software, will automatically update in different time zones. While exact pricing and timing of launch are still unclear, Mr Gates suggested the watches will cost upwards of $200 (&#163;125)."It's been a while since there's been something dramatic that brought the watch to a new level," he told delegates at the show. "This is a digital screen. We can display any type of information there. You're able to send instant messages through this."Mr Gates also said Microsoft is cooperating with chip designer Intel in the production of a portable video and audio player codenamed Media2Go.Microsoft hopes the first handheld device, which will hold at least 12 hours of music or six hours of video, will be in shops later this year. Sanyo and Samsung are both working to produce the first players, which include full-colour screens and can be connected to a home TV.In Las Vegas Mr Gates also demonstrated a prototype fridge magnet which can be programmed to receive traffic reports, sports results and advertisements from local restaurants using the same FM signal as the wristwatch.
AOL Time Warner yesterday suffered another battering on reports that the world's largest media business will take a further $10bn charge to reflect the dwindling value of its internet service provider.Analysts cautioned that the charge could have a damaging effect on AOL Time Warner's credit ratings and increase the strain on its balance sheet.Wayne Pace, the chief financial officer, warned in October that further charges would likely be incurred on top of the record-breaking $54bn write down in the first quarter. "Based on current market conditions and the lower-than-expected results at our AOL division, it is probable that a substantial overall impairment has occurred," he said.Last month, the company underlined just how badly the America Online business has been doing and said it expected advertising and e-commerce revenues to fall by up to 50% next year.Analysts now believe that 
 "substantial" impairment could reach another $10bn, or go even higher.The $54bn charge already taken represents the crumbling value of America Online since the merger with Time Warner two years ago.Under new accounting rules, companies have to reflect any change in the value of their assets on the balance sheet on an annual basis. Shares in the company have fallen by 70% since the merger and more write downs can only damage sentiment further. The shares fell sharply in early morning trade yesterday before rallying with the broader market.A company spokeswoman declined to comment on the size of the write down but was keen to stress that it was an accounting charge. "This charge 
 is non-cash and it does not affect the earnings or the operation of the business," she said.But Robert Willis, an accounting specialist at Lehman Brothers, said it could have adverse consequences. He said a large charge "could very well have material impact on debt covenants because it erodes net worth". The company is shouldering around $26bn in debt.America Online was dealt another blow late on Wednesday when Microsoft signed a deal with Charter Communications, the number three US cable operator, to promote and market the software firm's MSN 8 internet service. AOL Time Warner has been struggling to cut deals with the cable networks.America Online yesterday named Leonard Short as vice-president of brand management to oversee much of the operation's marketing efforts. He will hope to play a part in reversing falling advertising revenues and reigniting subscriber growth at the internet service provider.
Remedial workThe collision last week between the Tricolour and the Kerosene-laden Turkish boat, the Vicky, was attributed to human error - the latest in a long line that includes Chernobyl, the Challenger explosion and the Three Mile Island nuclear power plant accident. Last year, two web-based events made news and were dismissed in the same way: Egg's online banking customers being able to access other customers' details, and Dell customers attempting to purchase a speaker system at a tenth of its "actual" price.If system designers accept that users will make inevitable mistakes, they are in a unique   position to understand these mistakes and create systems that allow their results to be corrected. There are methods at their disposal: cognitive modelling, monitoring of critical incidents, prototyping and testing.People are willing to accept human error as the cause of a tragedy - the   lone gunman explanation. Systems psychology has yet to fully permeate the public's understanding of science, and commentators must play an active role instead of dismissively claiming human error as the cause of all problems.Gerred Blythgerred@amber-light.co.uk2003 wish listWhat a geeky load of things you think we ought to know in 2003 (Online, Jan 2). Human beings, trying to survive and earn bread in the real world, need very different things. Among them are: an easier user-interface for the 50% of humans resistant to screens and keyboards, accurate health records available instantly and anywhere, tougher security to deter terrorist hackers, tighter data-standards to cope with the Tower of Babel of XML dialects, and cheap high-speed wireless connections across the country.By the end of the year, I predict we will have to protect ourselves against the obscene spam likely to be released by mobile picture messaging.Richard Sarsonrsarson@blueyonder.co.ukBlog is loggedIn Survival guide 2003, you write: "Google and Blog' - In 2002 both became verbs. In 2003 they may enter the dictionaries, so we'll all have to    move on." Reaching for my copy of the Encarta Concise English Dictionary I find that "blog" was listed as far back as 2001 - as a noun and a verb. You should have moved on more than a year ago!Gordon Kerrgordon_kerr@bloomsbury.comIT surgeryUnlike Bernard Mathews (Feedback, 2 January), I have never been involved in implementing any hospital IT system. As an end user, I can see how appropriate IT systems could make my job (as an anaesthetist) more effective.I can see how a single   system to manage an entire hospital may well be so complex as to be unmanageable and like him, I believe the future lies in smaller single-department systems.My hospital has been procrastinating over the purchase of an operating theatre management system (TMS) from at least 20 commercial systems available. We have been pressured into using the system in use by our sister hospital.That system is badly in need of an update. NHS should centrally write the software for such systems, which would then be released under an open source licence. The software would be stan dard issue to all NHS hospitals and by being open source, generic systems could then be customised by individual hospitals.However, I think the battle is already lost. The decision to spend &#163;2.5 billion of NHS IT money in the private sector has already been made. It is government policy to stuff as much public money as possible into private pockets.Yoav TzabarStrathmuiryoav@tzabar.orgSync is a cinchAshley Norris (Online, December 19) seems to imply that, with a Palm OS PDA, you have to have third party    software to be able to synchronise your contacts in Outlook with your PDA. I don't know about other brands, but that is not so with Palm devices - as you install the software, you are asked if you want to use Outlook as your default; click "yes" and everything syncs to that rather than the Palm Desktop. No need to create CSV files, or generally confuse yourself - everything is automatically synced every time, and if you are unfortunate enough to run out of battery on the PDA, all you need do is synchronise again once you have put a new battery in.Claire Hodgsonc.m.hodgson@btinternet.com
&gt;connecting to server...Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:In a speech to a conference of British ambassadors, Tony Blair characterised Britain's international role as a "unifier" and reiterated his support for the US. But is our status as America's closest ally consistent with Blair's vision of Britain as a consensus-seeking mitigator? What do you think?Bronco:does it smell like burnt toastLadeezMan:only one millionth of one drop will kill youBronco:cos I keep smelling burnt toastPashmina:you cant smell it its smellessBronco:wotsit calledHost_Chris2:it's not the topic, but the poison is called RicinPashmina:and its not in the air u got to stick each person with a umbrelaLadeezMan:cos its got rice inPashmina:does itHost_Chris2:no, it comes from the same plant that castor oil comes fromLadeezMan:the rice plantPashmina:how can we stop terererists buyin rice!!!LadeezMan:you cantHost_Chris2:actually it's made from castor beansLadeezMan:which is another name for riceHost_Chris2:no it isn'tPashmina:WOT IS CASTRO BEANS!!!*KimHowells has entered the NewsRoom*Bronco:dunnoLadeezMan:the Castor bean is a shrub-like herb native to Africa, but naturalised across much of North America, bearing seed pods which have a strong emetic effect if ingestedPashmina:omilord!KimHowells:as of now i'm monitoring this chatroomBronco:LadeezMan did u gcp thatHost_Chris2:welcome KimHowells. The topic is Britain's international rolePashmina:wot is gcpBronco:google, copy, pasteKimHowells:I hope u idiots arent glorifying gunsPashmina:of corse notBronco:guns are cool, thoLadeezMan:I got a huge glockBronco:lolLadeezMan:KimHowells is u fitHost_Chris2:I think KimHowells is pretending to be the outspoken culture minister of the same nameKimHowells:I am KimHowells u rap artist bastardsLadeezMan:male or femaleHost_Chris2:malePashmina:maybe its really himBronco:lets ask him questions only a govt minister woud knowHost_Chris2:questions pertaining to the topic, perhaps.Pashmina:KimHowells has ricin got rice inBronco:damn Ive burnt me toastKimHowells:conceptualist shitheads&gt;connection to server has been terminated...
In his CES keynote speech, Microsoft boss Bill Gates revisited the SPOT smart personal object technology he had already announced at Comdex in November, only this time concentrating onwristwatches. He also showed a prototype of the newMedia2Goplatform -- multimedia 20GB handhelds (of the sort Apple didn't launch) which will be made initially by Sanyo, Samsung, ViewSonic and I-River -- and he played Xbox Live against Shaq O'Neal. Ashley Norris reports for the Guardianhere.APandIDG Newsalso have reports. Microsoft has posted atranscript of the speech, so you can get more of the flavour. Gates also did a short interview withBusiness Weekon SPOT.
"A keyboard without any keys, a solar charger for the Gameboy (sic) and a digital electric guitar are among the most innovative gadgets on display at the world's largest consumer technology trade show," reportsBBC News Online.
CNet sentMichael Kanellos, an agnostic, to MacWorld, the show that caters for True Believers. He remains predictably unimpressed.
At CES,Toshibahas announced the first notebook PC running Microsoft's Windows Media Center, a special entertainment-oriented version of Windows XP. Oscar Koenders, vice president of product marketing and worldwide product planning, said: "The design of Toshiba's next generation Satellite notebook is our vision of how customers will use computers in the future -- from recording TV programs and watching DVDs to managing video, music and photo collections," reports eWeek. And asCNetpoints out, Alienware is doing one too.
It seems everyone thinks that sex is the number on topic on the Web, but it turns out that "more people use the Internet for religious or spiritual activities than have gambled online, used Web auctions sites, traded stocks online or used Internet-based dating services," according to thePew Internet &amp; American Life Project, reportedhereby CNet.
His software drives the majority of the world's PCs, and you will also find it on many electronic personal organisers and mobile phones. Now Bill Gates is sizing up your wristwatch.During a keynote speech to launch the International Consumer Electronics Show (ICES) in Las Vegas yesterday, Microsoft's chairman explained how the recently-unveiled Smart Personal Object Technology (Spot) would be integrated into watches. Not only will the watches tell the time, but they will also deliver timely information.Owners will be able to customise timepieces so that the screen will display everything from traffic information to the latest sports news.The Spot technology, which allows the watches to run Microsoft's .Net Compact Framework, will also enable the user to change the appearance of their timepiece to suit their mood, keep them abreast of their appointments and receive basic text messages.Data is delivered to the Spot timepiece via an FM sub carrier and, as Gates explained, the watches will work anywhere an FM signal can be received.The first generation of Spot watches are being tested this month, with three companies - Suunto, Citizen and Fossil, promising models for US consumers in Autumn 2003. There is no news on a UK launch.Gates sees many potential uses for the Spot technology. When it was originally unveiled at the Comdex computer show last year, he demonstrated a prototype Spot alarm clock that not only woke the owner up but also delivered sports news and traffic information as well as reminding them of their schedule.Microsoft, which is investing more than $5bn (£3.1bn) in research and development of the technology, also sees a role for Spot fridge magnets, perhaps displaying a series of digital images or giving details of takeaway food menus and prices.The Spot announcement was the centrepiece of a speech that set the tone for this year ICES - the biggest event of its kind in the world with  Sony, Philips, Panasonic and Intel among the key exhibitors.Gates took the opportunity to reveal how advances in devices, connectivity and services  would deliver networked products that operated together in the digital domain.To prove that the public was ready for a connected product that moved beyond  the PC, Gates pointed to the success of Smart Displays - wireless touch screen monitors that can be moved around the home, yet still allow the user to access their PC's applications.So far, 10 companies have manufactured Smart Displays. Two of them - ViewSonic and Philips - have added extra applications enabling people to remotely control all the electronic devices in their homes.Gates also described Windows Media Centre XP PCs (which are accompanied by a   remote control to operate video and audio functions) as "selling like hot cakes" since launching in 2002. He added that the first notebook PC to feature Media Centre, a model in the Toshiba Satellite range, would go on sale very shortly.Microsoft's chairman talked about the launch of a new platform, Media2Go, and paraded a prototype portable device that pairs a 20gigabyte hard disk with a 4" LCD screen. The model lets its owners watch videos, listen to music or look at digital images.Earlier in the week, Microsoft strengthened its position in the mobile phone market by announcing new versions of its Pocket PC 2002 and Smartphone 2002 operating systems.These will be debuted on a pair of phones to be launched by Hitachi and Samsung for the North American market. So far, only one UK phone - the Orange SPV - uses Microsoft's Smartphone OS.In keeping with previous years, Gates's speech was accompanied by a video, and to illustrate how far the PC has developed, he treated attendees to a light-hearted history lesson.Crammed with in-jokes, including a few pops at rivals Apple, the video featured a roll-call of leading industry figures and celebrities (including Bill Clinton and Sean 'Puffy' Coombs) offering their take on everything from the Dos operating system to the internet.Gates also let conference attendees in on his New Year's resolutions. Apparently, top of his list is an Extreme Bridge game for the X Box. Given the flurry of announcements, he is far more likely to keep that resolution than his second - returning to Harvard to finish his degree.
Nokia's Spring offensive on the mobile market makes it clear that many picture phones will now start morphing into video cameras while others will acquire new features like being a pocket torch.A lot of recent adopters would be grateful if their existing camera phones could send pictures across networks before new features are added - but that is not the manufacturers' fault. For what it is worth the buzz is that the problems surrounding cross-networking (due to billing problems rather than technical factors) should be sorted before the end of the first quarter of the year.As usual, Nokia is customising phones to particular social markets. I had a brief test this morning of some of the models being released in the coming months  and there is certainly something for everyone. Using the 3650, due in the shops in early March, I took nearly 20 seconds of live video without any trouble and played it back at once without any problems. The definition wasn't brilliant but adequate.The amazing thing is that it happens at all as an add-on to a phone weighing 130g. At the moment there is  no sound (though you can download talking video from a web site if you want to) but you will be able to send these video clips to friends (if not yet to Hollywood) via multimedia messaging.  There is no built-in radio but you can get Radio 4 and other channels through streaming  audio (but be careful if you are being billed by the data you use). It also features Bluetooth, Java, triband and polyphonic ring tones.If you want sound with your video recording then the 6650, also due in the second quarter, may be for you. It takes up to 30 seconds of video recording with better definition than the 3650. And so it should, as it is one of the first of the 3G (third generation phones). You can use it on the existing GPRS  (general packet radio services) which is always-on the internet; but to realise its full potential it will be better to wait until the 3G infrastructure - for which the operators paid £22.5bn in the infamous auction a few years ago  - becomes operational.   Customers of T-Mobile, meanwhile, can convert one of Nokia's  existing camera phones (the 7650) into a video camera by downloading software from Hantro's web site atwww.hantro.com.I tried two other phones that will also generate interest. One is the 7250 (basically the 7210 with a built-in camera) which includes a radio, GPRS, HSCSD (high speed circuit switched data), stopwatch and a Pop-port interface for identification, stereo audio and fast data connectivity.The other is the splash-proof and very funky 5100 that not only incorporates a flashlight (the first I have come across on a phone) but also a radio, a thermometer, a sound meter and a calorie counter. Whatever next?Nokia's main lunge at the corporate market this Spring will be the impressively designed 6800 which is a cross between its successful Communicator and an odinary phone. It looks like a phone but opens out like a horizontal clam shell into  a sprightly qwerty keyboard either side of the (colour) screen. Weighing in at 122g with a radio and the usual emailing, calendar, organiser and messaging facilities, it is aimed at the businessman on the move who doesn't want to be weighed down by a palm or Pocket PC organiser.There is no camera though it can be had as an attachment and, more surprisingly, no Bluetooth, as if they are not expecting roving businessmen to use it in their cars.   It is easy to navigate around with the usual features of the Symbian operating system that Nokia is wedded to. Its corporate  attractions will be greatly boosted when Nokia, as it is planning to,  adds Blackberry software to it enabling emails to come directly to the screen (and announce their arrival each time with a "pip") This may not be included in the early versions in March. It is likely to be priced in the £250 to £300 range before operator discounts.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Thousands of students handing in coursework this month will face tests for cheating following the introduction of a national computer system that spots  plagiarised work.Academics at all British universities and colleges can now test students' work for cheating using the program, aimed at combating the growing problem of  internet plagiarism. The program, run by the Joint Information Systems Committee and thought to be the first national system of its kind, offers free advice and a plagiarism  detection service to all further education institutions in the UK.Fiona Duggan, of the Plagiarism Advisory Service, based at the University of Northumbria, said that this month was a peak submission period for assignments and would be the first big test for the programme since its  launch in October last year.Tutors can submit a piece of work electronically, which will then be checked for copying with material on the internet. Four hours later the work will be returned to the tutor, colour-coded according to the findings.If more than 75% of the text can be matched elsewhere then it will be highlighted in red. If less than 10% of the material can be matched it comes back in blue. Text can also be highlighted in orange, yellow or green according to the amount of text matched. The tutor will also be able to find out on which web sites the copied material originated.Dr Malcolm Read, the executive secretary of the committee, said the service was set up following a pilot scheme to deal with the massive potential for students to  copy work from the internet."We have seen a growing trend - we have recognised that the internet makes it technically easier for students to find resources and copy them. It is so simple to  lift text by cutting and pasting," he said."We are also concerned about the emergence of essay banks on the internet. We want it to be easy to spot fraudulent work."Gill Chester, who ran the pilot scheme, said that one of its main discoveries was that students were often not copying material on purpose. "Students often don't know about plagiarism or how to acknowledge the sources for their work. This needs to be overcome."Last year Ms Chester told Education Guardian that she believed the plagiarism rate among UK students was about 4% in contrast to the 30% to 35% in the US, where there was much more emphasis on continuous assessment.The program, designed by the California-based firm iParadigms, is also being used by institutions in America who have purchased the programme privately.   Ms Chester added that Germany and Australia were also looking into stepping up their plagiarism detection technology.
Troubled US media giant AOL Time Warner is expected to write off around £6bn at the end of the month on top of the record £34bn charge it took last year, further increasing the strain on its balance sheet.The world's largest media company is to announce the charge as part of its fourth quarter results on January 29, with US analysts warning that it could affect its credit rating and ability to borrow.Last year's charge was the biggest in US corporate history and, while not as dramatic, analysts say the latest write-down is further proof that the merger between AOL and Time Warner has gone sour.The two companies' £66bn merger in 2000 was supposed to herald the dawning of a new age in converged media but the AOL online division has dragged the share price down ever since, losing 70% of its value since the merger.AOL has struggled with a sharp slowdown in advertising revenues and subscriber growth and has also been hit by a government investigation into accounting practices around the time of the merger.The new management team at the online division, headed by new chief executive Jonathan Miller, again cut financial targets and ad revenue forecasts last month.Despite suggestions to the contrary by Wall Street, AOL Time Warner insists the latest charge won't affect its ability to borrow. The company's chief financial officer, Wayne Pace, told analysts in October that any charges taken in the fourth quarter would not affect liquidity.But many investors and analysts insist the charge may further constrain AOL Time Warner's financial flexibility. Chief executive Richard Parsons has said paying off some of the company's £16bn debt is a top priority.
If Rudyard Kipling is to be believed when he said that words are "the most powerful drug used by mankind", then the internet has become a virtual opium den. Not only are we bombarded by daily emails proclaiming freedom from debts, bigger muscles and sexual gratification, but now we have an array of Instant Messengers that allow real-time communication through free downloadable software programs. IMing is cheaper than calling, less impersonal than emailing and allows you to chat to friends and colleagues, and perhaps even find a secret net lover. But how easy are Instant Messengers such as Y!M, MSN and ICQ to run, while still maintaining privacy and protecting your personal corner of cyberspace?The trend of instant messaging was kick-started in 1996 when the four-person company Mirabilis cottoned on to the idea of linking millions of users via the internet through a messenger they dubbedICQ (I seek you). Today, ICQ has more than 120 million users worldwide, with an average 100,000 joining everyday. What sets it apart from such messengers as Yahoo's and MSN's, is that while they are service providers who have produced IMs as part of their online   package, ICQ started as a chatting programme and grew into a huge community.For many this means that being able to gain access to other users with similar interests, advertise in ICQ's whitepages directory and join forums is essential. For this reason, ICQ is more geared towards those who are actively trying to make new friends: it's the social messenger of choice and the messenger's web space is full of beaming couples who have found love.Unfortunately, this communication free-for-all means that it's not always easy to protect yourself from unwanted attention. However, ICQ's interface does allow you to ignore problem users or, for more underhand tactics, remain visible to some people and invisible to others. Other features include text messages, emails and voice or video chat.The potential of ICQ didn't go unnoticed and two years later it was taken over by America Online (AOL). AOL already had its own messaging system, dubbed AIMwww.aol.co.uk/aim(AOL Instant Messenger), but the acquisition of the millions of ICQ users undoubtedly helped push AOL's messenger into the top IM spot in the States, where it still commands more than   22 million users.Although this may have been a perfect opportunity for a spot of badge engineering on AOL's part, AIM and ICQ are quite different in style and interface. AIM is far less obtrusive and doesn't get the problems of spamming, nor do you need to be using AOL as a service provider to use the messenger. In fact, ICQ recently took a leaf out of AOL's book when it released a Lite version of its messenger with a smaller and simpler interface. In the virtual world, too much choice isn't always a good thing.MSN and Yahoo didn't jump on the bandwagon until 1999 and today MSN's instant messenger (http://messenger.msn.co.uk) has 42 million unique global users, aided by its vastly popular Hotmail web-based email service, which has recently broken the 100 million-user mark. Yahoo's Y!Mhttp://messenger.yahoo.comcomes in at just over 20 million and both have different versions for Mac and Pocket PC. Where MSN and Yahoo's messengers differ from ICQ is that your details are stored on a main server, instead of on your computer, which means that once the messengers are downloaded, you can access your contacts from any computer, making them ideal for travellers.Although it is rare to get unsolicited attention through the messenger itself, Hotmail and Yahoo mail, like ICQ, have become particular targets for spam emailers, and although you can block incoming mails from specific addresses, advertisements for Viagra substitutes, fake degrees and personal webcams still find their way in.Both messengers, alongside the normal range of options, allow you to access chat rooms and support video link ups. Yahoo has a huge chatroom community as well as fully supported Java and Mac versions. But one of the most useful little features shared by YIM and MSN IM is the ability to see when the person you're chatting to is typing, something sadly lacking in ICQ.Bringing up the rear of the big four are programmes such as iChat for MacOS X series, Ximian for RedHat Linux and the increasingly popular third-party messengers such as Jabba and Trillian, which allow users to run the other messengers through a combined interface.The American technology research company Gartner predict that by 2004, 60% of our real-time communication will take place through Instant Messenger technology, and there's no escaping from the fact that IMs are becoming the estate agents in a McLulanistic global village. But, for work or for play, whether you're an ICQ socialite or an MSN traveller, IMs can cater for every aspect of your virtual communication needs. All you have to provide are the words.
Starting a diaryOn January 1, 1660, Samuel Pepys awoke in the garret of his family home in Axe Yard in Whitehall and began the first entry of his now famous diary. It was a resolution he kept for nearly 10 years.This month, Phil Gyford, a web designer in Hackney, got up and began publishing Pepys diaries on the internet. Gyford says he wanted to read the diaries but the sight of the nine volumes always put him off. Until, that is, he thought of producing a weblog. Gyford is also responsible for one of the UK's earliest weblogs - Haddock.org -which has run, largely on sarcasm, for the past eight years. Every day, for the next 10 years, Gyford will upload a single entry from Pepys's diary at Pepysdiary.com.The entire Pepys diary is already available online, but no one has published it in this form before. And it is more than just the text. The diary is riddled with hyperlinks to   people and places mentioned in the diaries. Each London street name is even hyper-linked toStreetmap.co.uk, and the public is invited to annotate each entry. The response has been positive. Pepysdiary is a mature website, one that exists on a meagre budget and with no desire of commercial gain. Sharing knowledge for its own sake should always be applauded.www.pepysdiary.comhttp://promo.net/pgwww.haddock.orgDIY T-shirtsFashion magazines, particularly British ones, are known for their cutting edge graphics, innovative photography and occasionally for their writing. But fashion on the net is not known for such innovation. Describing itself as a "fashion broadcasting initiative", SHOWstudio.com has been trying to break the mould. In the past two years, the likes of Bjork, Alexander McQueen, Kate Moss and Jake and Dinos Chapman have contributed material to the site, which is the work of the photographer Nick Knight.Among the styled fashion   shoots and live webcasts is the opportunity to get T-shirt designs by a dozen leading designers. What you do is download the images, the most recent by Julie Verhoeven, as PDF files, which you can then print on to iron-on transfer paper to make your T-shirt. Choose from 12 designs.www.SHOWstudio.comAspen onlineAlthough most multimedia has now migrated to the net, it does have a prehistory in old-fashioned print media.   Between 1965 and 1971, Aspen magazine arrived in a box filled with articles that had been printed separately, rather than stapled together. One came in an Andy Warhol soapbox, another contained a reel of 8mm film. Aspen included conceptual scores by Philip Glass and Steve Reich, and made one of the first uses of the flexidisc. Regular contributors included Roland Barthes and Marshall McLuhan.In 1968, there was a British issue featuring a facsimile diary by John Lennon and images by Bridget Riley. Others came with jazz records and small pieces of conceptual art. Although the odd edition turned up on eBay, this early example of multimedia seemed lost to museums, until Andrew Stafford, a San Francisco bookseller, digitally reproduced all 10 volumes and recently uploaded them to the web. All 10 issues are there, the music has been encoded into MP3 format and a number of the art pieces have been made interactive.www.ubu.com/aspenTime travelWhat will the world be like in 2020? The question is posed by BBC Online's dedicated new microsite. You are invited to express your predictions, and the best will be chosen for a "democratically   edited" book - The Book of the Future - which will be published next June. All proceeds will be donated to Comic Relief.www.bbc.co.uk/dna/onthefutureWar storiesDe Geuzen is made up of Riek Sijbring, Femke Snelting and Renee Turner - three women from Maastricht who make art for the internet. Their latest work is an online documentary dealing with experiences of European women in the wartime internment camps of south-east Asia. Told through four images of conceptual dresses, true stories of camp experiences unravel in a multi-layered and complex web of narratives. The site also deals with the European colonisation of the region and admirably attaches itself to many official sites elsewhere.www.unravelling-histories.orgwww.geuzen.orgNew &amp;noted* Rent as many DVDs as you like for a flat fee of &#163;15 a month, with no late charges:www.webflix.co.uk* See Robert Mapplethorpe's photography:www.mapplethorpe.org* Work out when you'll be two million days old.www.re-date.com* Or how old is your body?www.realage.com* Remove your website from Google.www.google.com/remove.html* Two weeks on Mars is a weblog from the Mars Society's desert HQ.www.newmars.com/desertSix of the bestHuman cloningThe advocateswww.humancloning.orgThe instructionswww.biofact.com/cloning/human.htmlThe companywww.clonaid.comThe five year freezewww.fiveyearfreeze.orgThe satiristswww.ihatecloning.comThe special reportwww.guardian.co.uk/genes
Whenever my wife has difficulty sleeping she usually asks me to explain the principles behind social software. While the technical aspects behind it are less than exciting, she may find one social software project, which officially launches today, actually interesting. Why? Because it might just help us find a decent builder in the area.One of the first projects to map the comments of real people to real places is a new project fromUpmystreet.com. The site born in 1998 was originally made famous for being able to tell you just about everything you needed to know about a postcode, from the price of houses to the local MP.Its Conversations service launches today. In trial since early November, the service allows users to create a profile mapped to their postcode, and enter into discussions with people close to their location. It's this element of location which has lifted UpMyStreet Conversations out of the old bulletin-board arena into the trendy new area of social software.It works like this. You enter your postcode and click to find out what discussions are taking place close to that postcode. To take part you simply   register and get posting.Some of the more common postings include requests for recommendations for good local builders, debates about local planning controversies, people moving into the area who want information and myriad local topics.As Stefan Magdalinski, the site's chief technology officer, explains: "Upmystreet has built a large user-base looking at extremely local information. It's always been in the plan, having built a critical mass, to get them talking to each other. This increases the value of the site, the content, and the relationships."But is there a business in this? Magdalinski says UpMyStreet already sells the underlying technology to organisations such as local councils. The new service could also lead to selling advertising to local businesses.He is understandably upbeat about the future: "The early days of internet communities were necessarily all about shared interest, substantially because not enough of your immediate friends or neighbours were online to talk to. Now that internet penetration is approaching the general population, it is possible to build applications closely tied to real-world communities."UpMyStreet already has a relationship with Sky Broadcasting, allowing its postcode-based information to appear on the Sky Interactive service. The Conversations service will not initially be on Sky, and although Magdalinski is keen, he says not enough Sky users have keyboards, which would hamper their ability to post to the forums.A casual perusal of the boards reveals a high level of   politeness and willingness to help, and even some real-world meetings. In November, a "dansky" in Stoke Newington (postcode N16) posted a suggestion that people in his area meet in a local pub. As anyone can see from the post-pub discussion, the evening was evidently "splendid".And the conversations can take on far more serious issues than litter in the local high street. In Hackney E8, residents holed-up outside and within the cordon area surrounding Britain's longest-running armed siege were venting their thoughts and frustrations at the stalemate. It's also possible to search on topics. Broadband internet access is one such topic exercising the country's minds.But connecting people in an area could potentially lead to problems, especially if children attempted to take conversations offline. Only this week, the Home Office launched a &#163;1m campaign to alert children and parents to the potential dangers of meeting strangers online - especially ones close by.It's the question of privacy and possibility for abuse that led UpMyStreet to trial Conversations. A variety of safeguards are built in. The exact location of users is invisible, email addresses are not shared and any online abuse will result in a ban."We take swift action against inappropriate behaviour," says Magdalinski. "We want Conversations to be useful, informative, and fun."Looking at the boards, there is already a vast range of people using them, from young to old and the atmosphere is overwhelmingly one of good-natured, honest discussion.So, now to find that builder.
Interactive digital TV may well go the way of the internet, in the sense that conventional advertising revenues will not support it. If subscription to additional channels also reaches limits, then TV will have to look elsewhere for income.In this case, TV as transaction channel will become an important element of retail strategies. The focus on the PC and the internet has distorted strategic thinking about retail e-commerce. This is because the PC is only part of the story and in a few years' time, while almost all business-to-business (B2B) e-commerce will still involve desktop, laptop and handheld PCs, business-to-consumer (B2C) e-commerce will involve a much wider range of devices and platforms.It may well be that the PC remains the one that dominates B2C by value but that interactive digital television (idTV) and mobile will dominate by volume (because they are better suited to small purchases). The relationship between these devices and payment platforms is very interesting. I've previously noted the evolving relationship between mobile and TV with respect to text messaging (SMS), but the future interaction between the web, mobile and idTV will of course be much deeper.In the e-commerce world, the interaction between the different platforms will also become much stronger. Consumers might, for example, be happy to use idTV to research products and services and then go on to purchase them in high street stores or on the web. This, in a way, is similar to conventional idTV advertising (press the red button to get a brochure, and that sort    of thing).If, however, it became easy to buy through the television, then the channel would be able to capture transaction fees as well as the advertising revenue. The medium, as a whole, will be substantial. More than 32 million households in Europe will have idTV by the end of this year, according to Jupiter Media Metrix, and this figure will climb to 86 million in 2006, when more than half of all European households will have idTV.There are some issues, obviously, with converting this mass of consumers into a coherent marketspace but the sheer size and reach of the medium is a drive for a variety of parties to assist. The entertainment provided by idTV is becoming more personal (moving away from massmarket broadcasting) in parallel with the advertising.While technology enables this change, it also throws up new threats to the revenue streams it depends on. An obvious case in point is the Personal Video Recorder (PVR): once people have one, they never seem to watch TV in a "normal" (ie, watching the adverts) way again. And no one is watching more TV because there are more channels (in fact, the   number of channels people watch is about the same, they're just different channels).If idTV can't make money by getting people to watch more channels (or the adverts), it will have to persuade them to do other things with it as well.  Hence the bullish projections for t-commerce, which don't seem that outlandish to me. As a typically idle consumer, I can well imagine ordering the "book of series" by hitting the interactive button and punching in a PIN or looking at my credit card bill on screen to check if I'd remembered to pay it.There must be a lot of lazy people like me, because in a couple of years, more than a third of idTV subscribers will bank via the TV. ARC Research puts idTV revenues at $73 billion in 2006 (about &#163;44 per household per month, which is less than I pay for cable at the moment). eMarketer has forecast US t-commerce   revenues growing at a similar rate and recommended idTV operators explore business models for micropayments, subscriptions and pay-per- play services. There is some early evidence to support this positive view. In France, Canal+ obtains double the revenue from idTV users than from pay TV users and in the UK Domino's Pizza sales via idTV are double their internet sales.The opportunity is, of course, much more than buying pizzas and CDs. It is about lottery tickets, games, sports betting, pay-per-view and much more. This may lead to problems with conventional payment mechanisms, which is why new micropayment technologies may find a home here because the consumer may not be the subscriber, and may not want their transactions to be known - when subscribing to adult channels for example.Comparing the internet to idTV isn't a matter of debating "lean back" versus "lean forward" models of content access and interaction. The real comparison is the steady shift to a more transactional business model.Comments to:online.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Is the audio card in your PC pulling its weight? Unless you're a committed gamer, it's probably only being used to emit the odd "ping" when a piece of email arrives in your box. But that modest card can be your gateway to a whole new world.Audio feeds in RealAudio and Microsoft Windows Media format can whisk you to the police patrols of American cities and even bring you the "singing" of the earth itself. You might want to exhaust the traditional stations before you sample the web's odder audio feeds. BBC radio listeners will know they can catch up on their favourite shows via the BBC's website. Radio-Locator lists 2,500 audio feeds from radio stations around the world atwww.radio-locator.com.There's every kind of music, as well as Bible-belt talk. Radio-Locator was "formerly the MIT List of    Radio Stations on the Internet" and sells its own branded merchandise, so don't expect anything too way out.As the home of DIY enthusiasts, the web offers a vast selection of amateur internet radio stations.Live 365.comhas a cute brushed-metal tuner as an interface, though it also has annoying pop-up ads. But $4.95 per month will eradicate them. If you have a spare $6.95 a month, you can become a broadcaster.But top of the list for anyone bored with traditional radio must be the police and other emergency service channels. Many such frequencies are now patched into the net. The majority are based in North America, where it is legal to listen to emergency channels - and where no one will laugh if you say "10-4".Choosing a police scanner for your tastes and mood can be as difficult as finding the right piece of music. For early afternoon listening, I enjoy tuning in to the good people of the Naples, Florida, police department as they cheerfully query addresses, issue descriptions and - sometimes - laugh at the latest circulars handed down from the top brass.The department also broadcasts short bursts    of modem fire, so you might be able to analyse some of the data flying around the city's early morning streets atwww.naplesnews.com/special/crime/crime.html.Other good value channels include the Cincinnati, Ohio police athttp://wcpo.com/video/policescanner.html, and the Manhattan Fire Department atwww.thebravest.com.There's an excellent list athttp://bobc_3.tripod.com/live.html, maintained by a former member of the Sarasota, Florida, PD.Now for something a little more challenging. The time difference between the UK and Sydney is the only factor likely to affect the would-be aviator's enjoyment of air traffic control at the city's Bankstown Airport. But for an insomniac interested in flying,www.basair.com.au/is the place to be.Not only can you hear the radio traffic between the tower and the aircraft, complete with authentic Oz g'day's, you can also study maps of the approaches and weather and windspeed data. More sedate thrills are on offer at live auctions. DoveBid runs industrial auctions around the world, and lists them all atwww.dovebid.com/.If an    auction is in progress, you can listen live as the items go under the hammer. Each auction's catalogue is also shown.  Listening to a professional auctioneer in full stream is a treat - especially when there's no danger that you might accidentally buy a factory by wriggling your nose at the wrong moment.If you want to bid then you have to register first. I was impressed with the courtesy that the auctioneer offered to newbies bidding by phone in a two-day sale of distressed computer equipment held in Birmingham. The web is good at bringing far-flung places to your desk, and audio can further your understanding of how people live in other places.The governor of Alaska is regularly aired by the University of Alaska Fairbanks, via its gavel to gavel Alaska feature atwww.ktoo.org. Mindful that many citizens vote by post, Governor Murkowski recently reminded voters that they can vote at "most larger airports".He likes to complain good-naturedly about the traffic, too. Working at home, with a fast connection to the net? You can use audio feeds to create the feel of a work environment. Try listening to the drivers and signal personnel    talking incomprehensibly on the railways around Vancouver, Washington atwww.live365.com.Or for a baffling but atmospheric white-collar backdrop, head over to the live and archived hearings of the Texas Commissioner for Insurance atwww.tdi.state.tx.us/commish.If your tastes lean more towards the amateur, then you can eavesdrop on radio hams from your PC. Bill, Bob and their friends in the Dallas, Texas area have rigged their amateur band scanners to the net and unleashed them atwww.3819khz.net/listen.htm.After the frenzy of live conversation, why not relax with the Earth's "songs"? The Inspire VLF (Very Low Frequency) radio receiver at Nasa's Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Alabama, broadcasts the hidden sounds of our planet around the clock athttp://spaceweather.com/glossary/inspire.html.These sounds are variously known as sferics, tweeks and whistlers, but they all derive from lightning. Dusk and dawn are the best times to catch the Earth singing to herself, though to this untrained ear, much of it sounds like a rodent munching on a forgotten floppy disk.
When monks were compiling William the Conqueror's Domesday Book in 1085, they probably didn't expect it to last 1,000 years. But they would surely have been shocked by the idea that it would be unreadable in 10 to 20 years, or even 50 years. That, sad to say, is the position most of our digital data is in today. When our descendents look back at the dawn of the "information age" in the UK, they may see a black hole.A famous case in point: the BBC's contemporary Domesday project, produced with the help of hundreds of thousands of schoolchildren. The videodiscs were rendered almost unreadable in 15 years, when the hardware needed to play them became obsolete. But check your own records before you point an accusing finger. Can you still play your 45rpm singles, vinyl LPs, or reel-to-reel tapes? What about those old Standard 8 or Super 8 or Betamax movies? If you lived through the personal computer revolution, then you may well have dust-encrusted 5.25in or 8in floppy disks containing irreplaceable data. It may be on Sinclair Spectrum cassettes or QL Microdrives, 3in Amstrad disks, and other odd formats. Maybe you can still get that data back. However, the longer you leave it, the more difficult and more expensive it will be, until it eventually it becomes impossible.Children who have grown up with the IBM PC, launched in 1981, have enjoyed an unusual degree of stability, thanks to the humble DOS floppy. Most rival systems eventually switched to a compatible format, including Amstrad (with the PCW word processor) and Apple (with the Macintosh). But ubiquity is no guarantee of long-term survival. Floppies will soon go the way of punched cards, which were a standard way of storing machine readable data from the US census in 1890 until the late 1970s (seewww.columbia.edu/acis/history/hollerith.html)."I still have data written on punched cards, and they are good for hundreds of years," quips Josh Krischer, vice president for systems and storage research at Gartner, "just find me a card reader!"Krischer says companies should change their data storage technologies "every five years, because after that, the cost of maintenance is inhibitory." You have to keep migrating data to new media, or lose it.  Unfortunately, only large companies take data preservation seriously, according to Claus Egge, who runs International Data Corporation's European storage research programme. "In small and medium-sized businesses, very few people realise they ought to be doing better," he says."And when it comes to consumers, they have no clue about backing their stuff up, really." There's not much chance of getting them to think about data migration and preservation strategies.The good news is that all is not lost, and this month the Camileon project announced that it had "rescued" the BBC Domesday system by emulating the BBC Micro and videodisc player in software. Camileon is a joint project between universities in Michigan and Leeds, with the acronym standing for Creative Archiving at Michigan &amp; Leeds: Emulating the Old on the New. This three year project was set up to investigate the use of computer emulation as a way of preserving data, and Paul Wheatley, the UK project manager, says his team devoted its final year to the Domesday discs as a "proof of concept" (seewww.si.umich.edu/camileon)."Traditionally, people have looked at using migration - taking the data and moving it to a new format - but the problem is you have to go through so many migrations, because the platforms that you migrate to will also become obsolete," says Wheatley.The Camileon approach is to convert the data into a digital bytestream, thus removing most hardware compatibility problems. "It's easy to preserve a bytestream - that's basic computer science. Then it's just a question of how you interpret the bytestream, which is where emulation comes in. If you can't render the data, it's just a meaningless stream of bits and bytes."The idea is to split data preservation in two, and create "a modular tool with input and output formats". You create input filters to convert whatever needs preserving into bytestreams. In the Domesday case, this involved reading all the data into a PC and digitising the analogue video content. Later, on demand, you create output tools to convert the bytestream to whatever format is required. On the Domesday project, they started with a BBC Micro emulator downloaded from the net. "Given that digital preservation work is woefully underfunded, we need to make use of whatever's out there," Wheatley says.Apart from physical incompatibilities, there are software issues: the programs used to create data, and the file formats used to store it. In these cases, there are rarely any standards, except what the market dictates. The problem is that the market changes. Microsoft's Word document format is dominant today, but in the 1980s, the market leader was Word Perfect, and before that, almost everyone used WordStar. Microsoft's Excel now sets the standard for spreadsheet files, but Lotus 1-2-3 had dominated the market for a decade, after taking the crown from the original spreadsheet, VisiCalc.Users are split between those who believe there's safety in numbers and those who think there's safety in standards. Of course, both sides believe in standards. "Safety in numbers" really means de facto or "market standards", which may sometimes be ratified and turned into de jure standards. The real questions are whether a file format has been published - in which case it can be implemented by someone else if the supplier goes bust - and whether only one program can read and write files in that format. If so, your files are at the mercy of that program's supplier.But while open standards are an advantage, they are not a panacea, as the web's display format, HTML (Hypertext Markup Language), illustrates. In theory, the standard is set by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). Any company can produce software to generate HTML - examples include Macromedia's DreamWeaver and Microsoft FrontPage - and anybody can write a browser to read it. But as a matter of fact, different programs generate different HTML, while the same HTML looks different in different browsers, or even in the "same" browser on different platforms (such as Internet Explorer on Windows and Mac). Regrettably, web designers therefore tend to support the market standard (Internet Explorer for Windows) rather than the published standard.Things should improve, thanks to the almost universal backing for XML (eXtensible Markup Language). In particular, there's a noble attempt to create open XML formats for office documents as part of the development of OpenOffice (http://xml.open office.org), the open source version of Sun's Star Office. Microsoft is also supporting XML in the next version of Office, which is now undergoing beta testing. And on Sunday, Oasis, the Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards, held the first teleconference for its new Open Office XML Format Technical Committee, which aims to ensure interoperability between different implementations of the file format (seehttp://xml.coverpages.org).So could XML solve that piece of the puzzle? Paul Wheatley is not convinced. He says: "There are quite a few people in the preservation world who think that XML is the solution. I'm a bit more sceptical. Standards don't last forever: they change, and new standards come along. The real test of whether it's succeeded will come in 50 years' time."At the Public Record Office in Kew, David Ryan sees XML documents as just another kind of document to be preserved, but says they will be using it internally."With the storage system we're building at the moment, even if data is sent to us in a proprietary format, the metadata, which describes the data, will be in XML format," he says. "But at the end of the day, we're not storing information, we're storing records. If we convert it to another format, that's not the record. We can't go around telling people which formats to use because that's changing the record. We have to take what people create."So, if a government department produces Word documents or PDF files, asking for XML versions for the nation's archive is not keeping a proper record. Ryan does think that using open file formats could make it "more economically feasible" to make records publicly available, but that's a separate issue.Even if all these technical issues were solved, there are still huge problems with trying to preserve today's digital data for the future. These include copyright laws and digital rights management.First, there's the problem of getting hold of digital records to preserve. Neil Beagrie, programme director for digital preservation at JISC (Joint Information Systems Committee of the Higher and Further Education Funding Councils), points out that while print publishers have to deposit copies with copyright libraries, "there's no legal deposit for electronic publications. We need the same sort of provision for electronic documents. We can't rely on accidental preservation, or we're going to lose things that we'll later regret."Chris Mole, Labour MP for Ipswich, hopes to propose this in a private member's bill, but whether he gets the chance a matter of luck. "I find that rather sad myself," sighs Beagrie.Second, having got the records, will archivists be able to do anything with them? Wheatley raises the question of whether anybody would be allowed to look at the "rescued" Domesday data even if they own the original discs. "Common sense says it's just a copy, but the law might say it's a new version. Really we need a change in the law: we need a special provision to allow libraries and archives to take action to preserve digital materials."That may not go down well with Hollywood, the music industry and other copyright owners who are starting to use digital rights management (DRM) systems to prevent copying. "DRM clearly locks you in," says Beagrie, "so you'll have it, but you won't be able to access it, unless you own a technology museum."Clearly something must be done, which is why 19 organisations - including the British Library, JISC, and the Public Record Office - formed the Digital Preservation Coalition to coordinate their efforts, according to JISC's Maggie Jones. The Domesday effort showed that records could be saved, she says, but it took a massive effort. "Doing that every time is not going to be a feasible proposition. And however passionately people feel about &#91;digital preservation&#93;, the key issue is: Who's going to fund it?"Two years ago, the Americans allocated almost $100m to theirNational Digital Information Infrastructure and Preservation Program."We're watching that with some envy," says Beagrie, "and we'd probably like to see something like that in the UK."&#183;The Preservation Management of Digital Materials: A Handbook by Neil Beagrie and Maggie Jones, can be ordered fromwww.jisc.ac.uk/dner/preservation/workbookor read online at/www.dpconline.org/graphics/handbook. The PRO is holding a conference on Practical Experiences in Digital Preservation in April:www.pro.gov.uk/events/conferences/ica.htm.Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
I blame Kevin Bacon. It's only fair: he probably doesn't know it, but the floppy fringed actor's influence on the internet has been long felt, if unusual - and this year it's everywhere.What are we talking about? Social networks. Now, don't get all huffy. The influence of the one out of Footloose your sister fancied is not to be underestimated. Sure, it was the US sociologist Stanley Milgram who developed what he called the "Small World Hypothesis", which said, in effect, that everyone was connected to everyone else by six degrees or less - but it was the famous Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon online game site that firmly implanted the obscure scientific theory into the hive mind of the internet.The game is easy. Take any actor, and you will be able to link him or her to Kevin Bacon by a chain of six or fewer actors who have appeared in films together. So, for example, take John Wayne. There's two degrees of Kevin there - John Wayne was in The Longest Day with Robert Wagner. He, in turn, was in Wild Things with Kevin Bacon.So, technically, if Kevin wanted to have a beer with John, all he'd need to do is call up Robert, and get an introduction.Though, obviously, it might be a bit tricky now. But to the point.As it is with dodgy 80s movie stars, so it is with you and I. Given the right knowledge of the people between us, I could probably plot a chain of people between myself - here in the depths of the Swedish countryside - and you, wherever you are.If such information was available, and it turned out it might be advantageous for us to chat, then we could ask each of the middlemen in turn for an introduction and get on with it. Or we could skip the middle guys altogether.That's the idea of the growing number of social network sites on the net today. Take Friendster, for example. Still only in unannounced beta - the technical term for "not quite ready yet" - it has already gained thousands of members through word of mouth.Its aim is to introduce all of your friends, for the purposes of "dating or    making new friends" - on the logic that if I like you, and you say Bob is nice, and Bob says Bill is nice, then I'll probably find Bill nice, too. I might not know Bob or Bill now, but Friendster aims to rectify that. It shows their picture and their interests and gives a facility to get in touch with them.Details of how to join should be up shortly on their sitewww.friendster.com. While Friendster launches, and tries to get into our pants, sites such asRyzeandThe Ecademyhave been hard at work since last    year building business contacts for their members.Just like Friendster, and the Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon, they, too, work on the idea that you probably know someone who knows someone who knows someone who might just be the someone for you - but this time they emphasise the more commercial sides of life. Ryzers, as they call themselves, are perhaps the most sophisticated of the bunch.They get to list their interests, search other peoples', and leave messages for each other on their pages. Ryze also offers "tribes", sub-communi  ties for everyone from expat Scandinavians in the US to webloggers.  But do they work? Well, anecdotal evidence suggests they may well.One reader, Bernie Goldbach, says: "At the end of the day, I use networks and connected technologies that work for me. Ryze has helped me get the attention of a venture capital analyst who is now trying to get an introduction to a major telco as a source of bootstrap revenue. Strictly speaking,  networking events in the flesh can be a time drain. I believe networking in the ether gives more value for money. Ryze helps in that regard, but you have to be a paid-up member to avail of the power features that really win you information."Indeed, the advantages over networking events are plain: people's interests and skills are laid open, they work internationally, and, perhaps the greatest advantage, they don't require you to spend an evening drinking cheap wine and talking to mad people. Nevertheless, says Gold  bach, these social network sites are not the most productive of such tools."I get most of my client contacts from referrers coming from lurkers on mailing lists, weblogs or white paper readers," he says. Clay Shirky, a renowned internet thinker, agrees."Used right, mailing lists are still the best social network tools in existence," he says. And, of course, all these tools only work if you actively participate in them. No one will find you, if you keep your interests private and stay away from mailing lists    and weblogs.A new technology, however, is being developed that will allow you to stay away from such commercial operations as Friendster and Ryze. FOAF, or "friend of a friend", is a special computer language that can be used to describe ourselves, our work and our friends.You can create your own FOAF file using one of many online tools and then register it with any of the many growing FOAF online applications. These are growing in number and popularity, and despite the technical aspects being, well, technical,   FOAF is simple enough for the bold to join in with the development community at large. Further details and URLs can be found in the box below. So, there we have it. Our online cocktail parties will be instantly mapped by who knows who, and our business relationships might just get a little more transparent (imagine knowing who your colleagues all know - what an interesting change that might be). Not only are we all connected to Kevin Bacon, we've finally become him. Only without the silly hair.How to set up a networkJoining a social network is easier online than in real life. However, Friendster is currently in beta (testing mode), so I am loathe to give out the password in a national newspaper. You will undoubtedly know someone who knows someone who is already on the system, though, and an invite will be easy to cadge.After the beta is complete,www.friendster.comwill be   well worth a look. It works very simply: you register some basic details (including whether or not you're looking for a relationship) and you are then invited to invite your friends to join.Those already on the system get to confirm whether they are your friend or not, and the others are sent emails asking if they, too, would like to sign up.Once each relationship is   confirmed, every link is browsable, and so far I have more than 1,200 people linked to me in this way.Ryzeis already up and running and gives a very cosy feeling to the newcomer. As I write this, I have been a member for just over a day, and already have had five messages left for me.Signing up is simple. You answer a few questions -   where you are, where you are from, what you like, and so on, and you can then optionally upload a photo. Because every keyword you enter (things like home town, or interests) is linked to others with the same thing in their profile, you'll immediately have people linked to you with connections.FOAF files are more technical, but luckily one of the FOAF community, Leigh    Dodds, has built a great little application for building them. The FOAF-o-Matic comes in two flavours. The older JavaScript version, atwww.ldodds.com/foaf/foaf-a-matic.html, is good, but simple.The newer version, atwww.ldodds.com/wordtin/Wiki, is more complex but not entirely polished yet.Either version asks    questions and produces a file you can then place online and register at other FOAF applications, such as Jim Ley's FOAFNaut athttp://jibbering.com/foaf.One key feature of FOAF is that you can point to friends' FOAF files from within your own. Mine, therefore, is atwww.benhammersley.com/benfoaf.rdf. Feel free to link to it.
What made you become one of Apple's "switchers"?I've been an Apple user for the past 10 years and I have always been passionate about using Macs over PCs. I use a667MHz Titanium G4 Powerbookwith DVD/CD-R drive, but have just ordered the latest version with a built-in Super Drive. I never use PCs for anything!Favourite software?Final Cut Prois great because it's easy to navigate and has incredible video effects. I can also use it while travelling to edit videos from wherever I am. Other favourites include Adobe's Photoshop &amp;Illustrator,EntourageandLimewirep-2-p application.SherlockandPalm Desktopare great, too.How long did the Pro-Skater series take to develop?Neversoftstarted working on a prototype for Tony Hawk's Pro Skater in the summer of 1998. THPS1 was released in September, 1999. Each successive version has taken about a year to develop. It was the first online PS2 game.How much input do you have with your Pro Skater range of games?I play them throughout the development process, giving suggestions and reference materials. I'm mostly concerned with keeping it authentic and true to skateboarding. Every year, Activision take detailed images of my face, clothes, and skateboard to create the texture maps. I also send them a lot of animation reference. If they can't find any good reference of a particular trick, I'll email them digital video footage of myself doing the trick.What other games do you enjoy?I likeKelly Slater,SSX Tricky,Crazy TaxiandGrand Theft Auto 3. I don't necessarily think games have to be multi-platform to succeed, but it is a major factor now.Ever use chatrooms?Very rarely. I sometimes use instant messaging on my T-Mobile Sidekick (www.t-mobile.com/promos/sidekick.aspwhile on road trips.Favourite gadgets?Other than my Powerbook, my Sony digital camera and my Sidekick are always with me. I love myiPodbecause it's a compact, intuitive, and highly compatible device that can store a large musical library. I'd love an iPod with a bigger drive - somewhere in the 50-100Gb range!Favourite sites?www.theonion.com,www.skateboarding.comandhttp://store.swell.com. The weirdest thing is some of the websites made about me. It is surreal that someone has spent so much time creating an information hub about your life!&#183;Visit:www.tonyhawk.comandwww.activisiono2.com/tony_hawk/main.asp
Haven: Call of the KingPS2 		&#163;39.99 Midway/ Travellers Tales 	**The past year has been something of a golden age for platform games - a description that has become increasingly redundant for the animated epics that have appeared. Whether it's Jak and Daxter's perfectly paced, and load-free, exploration, or Ratchet &amp; Clank's retro-futuristic combat, the bar has most definitely    been raised. Haven is the latest title to arrive that promises a genre-bending mix of platforming, shooting and racing.Sadly, it starts badly, as you are thrown straight into the action - a trial and error chase section that will remind older players of more unforgiving gaming times. And it soon gets worse. A cliched plot is one thing, but grainy visuals, unsympathetic characterisation and a cluttered playing area are too much.  Despite the laudable attempt to mix styles, the majority of the gameplay involves collecting specific numbers of items - lovers of shopping lists will feel right at home.Combat is as frustrating as you'd imagine, consid  ering that the main weapon is a yo-yo. Short-lived power-ups, which arm you properly, give a glimpse into what could   have been. There is a general lack of polish throughout and usually you are given little information as to why you failed.Early shooting levels are particularly haphazard, while later driving sections are laughably basic. Also, the graphics are merely adequate, despite some nice touches such as the character pulling his hood on when it rains.Despite all these problems, there are some enjoyable elements, particularly a well- designed maze section, while the latter levels improve upon their predecessors. Applaud Haven's attempts at originality by all means, but don't try it until you have played and finished its superior competitors.Zoo Tycoon: Marine Mania &amp; Dinosaur DigsPC 	&#163;19.99 each.  Blue Fang/ Microsoft	***Zoo Tycoon was an unusual release for Microsoft, a label usually more concerned with blockbusters than slow burners. Slipping out with almost no publicity over a year ago, we now have two new level packs released back to back - so what do they offer that the original did not?As before, this is still Theme Park without the sense of humour. Marine Mania allows you to add a further 20 aquatic animals to your zoo, while the newest pack, Dinosaur Digs, includes the same number of extinct beasties to breed and nurture. Both packs include a handful   of new scenarios to complete, while leaving the basic gameplay of careful micromanagement intact.Unfortunately, this is also their biggest failing. Why, with such wonders as T-Rex's to play with, are there no new objectives to pursue? Yes, the dinosaurs can escape but it's no different to a panda or tortoise escaping (albeit with a few more fatalities), ruining a great opportunity to add Jurassic Park-style hunts and visitor hysteria to the mix.Zoo Tycoon remains a well- designed game, packed with natural history information about the animals under your care, but the massive investments of time and energy it demands will still scare off causal gamers.Robin Hood: The Legend Of SherwoodPC		&#163;29.99 Wanadoo		***Real-time strategy (RTS) games lend themselves well to recreations of historical events. Oddly, French publisher Wanadoo has delved into British legend to create this RTS game based on the myth of Robin Hood.Surprisingly, it works well. Robin Hood: The Legend Of Sherwood initially feels more like a role-playing game than an RTS, as Robin is on his own having returned from the Crusades, and must hook up with various faithful old retainers by means of a mixture of sneaking around, swordplay (an innovative mechanism lets you influence the direction of sword attacks) and archery.As you progress through the missions, with the help of   scrolls and beggars who you can bribe for information, you assemble the Merry Men. Before too long, Robin Hood becomes a familiar RTS - although it does not let you control more than five characters, so retains a certain flavour of RPGs. Assessed on pure gaming terms, Robin Hood holds its own pretty well: the graphics and controls are decent and you frequently have to take strategic decisions, such as whether to employ stealth or firepower.The missions, which may involve rescuing characters, performing ambushes or engaging in more typical RTS set-pieces such as sieges or battles, are varied. Robin Hood: The Legend Of Sherwood occupies too small a niche to become a smash hit along the lines of Command &amp; Conquer, and its rather cursory multi-player side stands little chance of attracting much of a following among the online RTS enthusiasts, but in single-player mode, it is absorbing, diverting and fun to play.  (SB)
For a few days in January, the hottest show in Las Vegas is the International Consumer Electronics show (ICES), which opens today at the city's Exhibition Centre. Here the world's consumer electronics dealers, manufacturers and journalists check out the latest gadgets and gizmos and mull over the health of the industry.This year they have plenty to talk about. Last year, Sony's US president of consumer electronics, Fujio Nishida, described 2001 as "a year that was challenging." He is unlikely to be as diplomatic when delivering an overview of 2002, a year in which the slow growth of the US economy took its toll on the industry.At least ICES has a good tale to tell, namely the increasing convergence between computing and consumer electronics. It is a trend that is reflected in the conversations on the exhibition floor where the talk is as much of hard disks and wireless networks as it is  of TVs and videos.And by a line up of keynote speakers that includes Intel's chief executive Craig Barrett and Microsoft's chairman Bill Gates.In previous years, Gates' opening night antics have been seen by the major consumer electronics players as little more than a bit of light relief. This year, however, execs from the likes of Sony, Panasonic and Philips will be hanging on his every word.That's because the big buzz word in consumer electronics is now software, a subject on which Gates isn't short of an opinion. Manufacturers are painfully aware that the number of electronic boxes in a home will soon begin to dwindle as users have all their home entertainment content delivered to sets of screens via a large PC/server.Companies such as Sony and Philips are investing heavily to ensure they provide the software to drive tomorrow's video and audio products. That is not to say they won't have plenty of black boxes and shiny gadgets to parade. One of the key stories of ICES 2003 is sure to be wireless networking for the home.For several years, innovative US start-up companies have been manufacturing devices that integrate within a wireless system to enable users to access software (music and video) from their PC. Now the major players are moving in. Philips is set to demonstrate a wireless version of its Streamium networked hi-fi system (which allows users to access internet radio stations and MP3s on their PC's hard drive.)Meanwhile, Panasonic is expected to parade a prototype 802.11a server that wire  lessly streams high quality video (DVD and high-definition TV) to screens within the home. Its rival Sony is likely to revive its old concept of wireless tablet PCs that double as AV system controllers. Potentially most impressive of all is what Sanyo and a new company called Magis Networks is billing as the first wireless (ie completely bereft of cables) TV.It's a portable set that uses a system called Air5, which enables multiple simultaneous streams of high quality video, audio and internet data to be sent wirelessly to the set over a range of up to 250 feet.Also likely to be big news is home networking. US company Plexus is bringing the benefits of high-end intelligent homes to more humble dwellings with its Home and Life Automation software. It enables consumers to control their electronic appliances (hi-fi, TV, lighting, heating, security systems) remotely and wirelessly using PDAs, Windows-based PCs and mobile phones.The software has created a buzz because it is inexpensive, boasts some advanced features and supports a wide range of wireless and wired standards including Bluetooth. The battle to replace the VCR will ignite once again with new DVD recorders squaring up to hard disk based video recorders.Some units, including a rumoured Panasonic hard disk-based recorder, will add broadband internet access for streaming audio and video to a TV.  ICES will also be a gadget-lovers dream.Among the highest-profile launches is likely to be pair of digital cameras from Olympus, the Mju 300 and 400 digital, which marry the company's classic 35mm design with a weatherproof metal shell. And, no doubt, there will be the usual smattering of wacky inventions to delight us all.
Liberate Technologies has filed an8-K formthat says: "As part of its ongoing efforts to align operating expenses with revenues, Liberate Technologies is terminating the employment of approximately 180 employees effective January 10, 2003, and expects to transition out approximately 60 other employees during the next three months." Last month, reportsCNet, the company also "fired its chief operating officer after a company investigation into questionable accounting". I know most journalists have long since stopped following Liberate's struggles, but the company was a sort of spin-off from Larry Ellison's Oracle and was originally called Network Computer Inc. It was pumped up as leading the Network Computer revolution and later as potentially "a powerful new player in the Linux-on-the-desktop front" (to quoteLinux World), when its market cap was an insane $3 billion. Do you think there is the slightest chance the journalists, analysts and PRs who pumped out clueless bullshit promoting Larry and his ideas in the latter half of the 1990s will feel the tiniest bit guilty about any of this? You're right: none at all.
A very interesting readfrom Clay Shirky on the serious mistakes he thinks phone companies are about to make. "To understand what's going to happen to the telephone companies this year thanks to WiFi (otherwise known as 802.11b) and Voice over IP (VoIP) you only need to know one story: ZapMail." If you read only one tech essay today...
One of the few sure things about this Expo was that Apple was going to charge $49 for its iApps bundle - iTunes, iMovie, iPhoto and iDVD (and possible iSync and iCal). BothNews.comandThinksecretran well-founded stories anticipating the change - and sparked a major backlash among Mac users. Yet when Steve Jobs stood up yesterday, three of the Apps remained free, and only iDVD - the software for DVD burning, which is useful only to a small number of Mac users - was locked behind a $49 fee. What happened?I have it on good authority that Apple briefed a few people about the iApps charge late last year. It was their intention until only a few days ago to levy a $49 charge for the whole bundle of upgraded digital media software. But, having witnessed online the unhappy reaction of Mac users to the charging plan (the software was previously free) Steve Jobs ordered that three of the four go free. Only iDVD - never available as a download anyway - would remain fee-only. Jobs, cursing the gossip sites, became concerned that the original plan might have drawn boos - and significant adverse publicity - had it gone ahead.Looks like some online flames saved us all a few quid...
I've been giving Apple's new web browserSafaria shot today, and it seems fine. When it's out of beta it will probably be quite a nice browser - certainly better than Netscape or Mozilla. The weblog world has decended upon it to take it apart - there's an extensive bug/omission list being compiledhere- and some people are complaining about features that exist in other minority broswers, like tabbed browsing, not being in Safari. But real world users will probably find it OK - faster than Explorer, maybe even a little speedier thanOpera, but one or two minor features short of both.Browsers are like a good pair of shoes: you spend so much time in them, you want it to be comfortable. And that's maybe the reason theBlogospherehas so quickly tested and reported back on it. But rapid fire analysis has its drawbacks: some of the critiques seem either a bit obscure, plain wrong or just confusing. For instance,Doc Searlssays it lacks cookie managment, but I found some under Explorer|Preferences|Security, so I'm not quite sure what he means. Any thoughts?
Intel has announced a new brand to cover its mobile technologies, including the forthcoming mobile Pentium code-named Banias and its Wi-Fi wireless offerings. "The new Centrino mobile technology brand name will be represented by a new logo carrying the famous Intel Inside® mark. The logo, featuring a striking magenta color and a completely new shape, suggests flight, mobility, and forward movement", says Intel. Update:CNetnow has the story, with the interesting aside that "A Google search on 'centrino' also reveals the term to be a common one in Italian embroidery circles."
I heard the news today, oh boy ... Paul McCartney was 2002's top grossing US concert act followed by, yes, the Rolling Stones. Meanwhile, the Mini has been voted North American Car of the Year at the Detroit Motor Show. What is this? Is America falling in love with Britain all over again?If it is, this would hardly be surprising. Within weeks from now, our boys may well be driving across the Mesopotamian dunes, bumper-to-fender with Uncle Sam's finest as, together, we seek to corner the oil to fill the cars, from Minis to gas-guzzlin' Sports Utility Vehicles, Cadillac Coup-de-villes and V8 Fords that keep the US motivatin' while cruisin' along, it seems, with the Beatles and Rolling Stones singing Chuck Berry covers.But this really is the 21st century. The Beatles were another day. Macca is Sir Paul, and the Rolling Stones have gathered more than their fair crop of moss. As for the Mini, surely that cute mechanical critter vanished in a cloud of ferrous oxide years ago?It did. The Oxford-built car which Motown has fallen for is not the Mini of Swinging London, but the new Mini, a big, bouncy baby of a car - more Maxi than Mini - that has about as much in common with its Issigonis-designed 60s predecessor as Sir Paul does today with the pill-popping, leather-clad Scouse band that once took Hamburg by storm.The new Mini is a smart, civilised, well screwed-together car that has adapted well to the brawny streets of Chicago, Manhattan and LA; it is a car you   could drive from east to west coast with little effort. Above target US sales figures may owe as much to the new Mini's appearance in Goldmember, the latest Austin Powers Bond spoof, as to a witty advertising campaign; but the hard truth is that this Mini, designed by a team based in Munich led by Frank Stephenson, a Brit, is a BMW. Stephenson's boss is the Bavarian Motor Works' Gert Hildebrand, the new Mini an automotive wunderkind rather than some fiendishly clever yet deeply flawed tin brat ridden roughshod by the disastrous British Leyland in the 1970s.No matter how enchanting and fun to drive on a good day, the British Mini was a bouncing box of rattly tricks. My first 850 model used to stop in heavy rain. The only cure was to get   soaking wet while trying to dry out the distributor that generated the electricity that made the car go. One day, the engine sheered off its mountings. Forgivable? In the soft underbelly of south-west London, perhaps; in the south-west states - Death Valley, for instance - potentially lethal.Understandably, the British Mini failed to crack the US market. Significantly, the one small car that did make it big in the States before the new Mini was German. No, not a BMW, but the Volkswagen - designed by Hitler's pet engineer, Ferdinand Porsche, in the 30s. The "Bug" - "Beetle" in Britain - was bought by much the same crowd attracted to the new Mini: well-off students, young city professionals, the    surfin' USA set in California. Like the new Mini, the Beetle was beautifully made, a style statement sure, but as reliable as a Swiss watch. The sporting variant - the VW Karman Ghia - was sold in the US under the banner "the world's least powerful sports car". In an equally clever advertising campaign, the "Bug" was labelled "Lemon". This was neat satire: the Volkswagen emerged in the States when Detroit was as it most extravagant: all chrome, fins and massive motors that   might easily suck the Middle East dry.The idea of a British car built by Germans may well hold a deep-down appeal in certain strata of US society. This is not just a case of believing that while British design is cool, German manufacturing know-how is somehow superior, but one of taking a look through the far end of a telescope at new Mini buyers; very many of these Mini-stung Wasps are from German backgrounds. There was a time in the mid-19th century when one in four emigrants passing through Ellis Island on their way to US citizenship was of German origin. Perhaps the success of the VW "Bug", and the new Mini, is a kind of automotive homecoming.Maybe. Or might the success of the new Mini represent, in part, something of the continual   blurring, and Blairing, of US and British culture? Since the Yanks came to Europe in the 1940s, and went back with paid-for MGs and appropriated VWs, Britain has hovered awkwardly - culturally and politically - between the States and mainland Europe. British Fords of the 1950s took their styling cues from Detroit. Today's Jaguars - under American ownership - are designed with the US market in mind. The new Mini - designed in Germany, made in Britain, sold in the US - might yet be seen as a cultural ambassador, linking worlds that, while different on the surface, are much more closely - more maximally than minimally - connected than we might like to think.jonathan.glancey@guardian.co.uk
The giantConsumer Electronics Showopens tomorrow in Las Vegas (not counting theBill Gates pre-show keynoteat 6.30pm tonight), and previews generally reckon that wireless devices will be prominent.PC Worldcovers the field from flat screen TVs to batteries, with news coveragehere.APhas also done a round-up. Meanwhile, the US-based Consumer Electronics Association (CEA) has somesales predictionsfor the $100bn business. Freelance Ashley Norris will be reporting from CES for Guardian Online.
Microsoft is now licensing its technologically superior Windows Media system for non-Windows platforms at half the price of MPEG-4. "They've come up with a licensing program that is bound to shock the industry in the first hours of the Consumer Electronics Show," Richard Doherty, research director for the Envisioneering Group, told theNew York Times[free registration required]. "For use of the its video compression technology on non-Windows operating systems, Microsoft will charge 10 cents per decoder, 20 cents per encoder, or 25 cents for both. In comparison, MPEG-LA -- a consortium of companies holding patents attached to MPEG-4 -- charges 25 cents per encoder and decoder, or 50 cents for both," saysCNet. As this report points out, Microsoft has already licensed its media technology to some manufacturers of DVD players and television set-top boxes, but this is not quite the same as publishing a price list and making it widely available. Update: Microsoft has put out apress releasesaying more than 200 devices will support Windows Media, including DVD players and car stereos announced at CES.
Mira "smart displays"will be available in the US today, reports InfoWorld. They let you pick up your Windows XP Pro computer screen and use it anywhere in the house, wirelessly, much like a cordless phone. In the long term this could be an interesting idea, especially when extended to other devices, but at the moment, as Gartner says, it's "an idea in search of a home." The New York Times [free registration required] has a longhands-on reviewin its State of the Art column, pointing out the limitations, including the performance (too slow) and price (too high).
"Astronomers have measured the speed of gravity for the first time and found, reassuringly, that it conforms to their expectations of the universe. Gravity travels through space at roughly the same speed as light, scientists announced Tuesday. Until now, they could only assume that the two zipped along at the same pace, as Einstein's general theory of relativity predicts." Continuedhere
Well: we didn't see that coming. I'm just back from a two-hour Jobs keynote here at MacExpo, where the Apple CEO left the sceptics and the gossips confounded with an array of updated software and a couple of new computers for good measure.The new machines first: Apple have launched a little and large combo, with a17-inch PowerBookleading the portable line and a tiny12-inch PowerBookbringing up the rear. The bigger model, with the same display as the 17-inch iMac, still manages to be thinner than the current inch-thich models, and has 4.5 hours of battery life. There's a 1GHz G4 processor inside, and rather nifty auto-sensing keyboard lighting, which realises when it's dark and lights up the keys. It ships in February, and will cost $3299, including built in DVD-burning Superdrive, Bluetooth and 802.11g networking.The smaller machine is 1.2 inches thick, weighs 4.6 lbs, and has a 867Mhz processor. Apple claims it is the world's smallest "full featured" notebook, whatever the definition of that is, and will cost $1799 (or $1999 with a DVD-burning Superdrive). It ships in two weeks, also with Bluetooth built in and Airport Extreme (the new 802.11g version) as an option.On the software front, Apple has introduced a charge for itsiApps (now known as iLife)digital media suite, as predicted, but three of the four components of the suite remain free to download. Only iDVD, which was never available to download anyway (it's much too large), has to be paid for, or acquired with a new Mac. Apple has more tightly integrated the suite (iTunes, iPhoto, iMovie and iDVD), added some nice new features and will sell the lot - boxed - for $49. Having been sold on the new features, the conference took the new charge surprisingly well.Finally, there were two new software products which we can file under "minor irritation to Microsoft". There'sSafari, a lovely-looking new web browser that appears to run much faster than Internet Explorer and has some neat integration with Google. And there'sKeynote, a presentation package which has some very impressive TV-quality effects, and a nice interface to boot. Both work only on Mac OSX 10.2 or later.Finally, there's a new version of Final Cut -Final Cut Express- which Apple hopes will bring Pro quality video editing (including lots of special effects and colour correction) to consumers, and sell for $299.I'm off to give all this stuff a go - more details (and UK pricing, I'd hope) should appear onGuardian Unlimitedtomorrow.
Merrill Lynch analyst Michael Hillmeyer has reinstated coverage of Apple with a sell opinion, reportsCNet. Presumably he reckons that if Jobs's speech boosts the price, this would be a good time to get out. You can track Apple's stock price atYahoo Finance. Update: Apple shares fell 30 cents (2.02%) after Jobs's speech, to $14.55 -- not a big deal.
The number of text messages sent in a single day topped 100 million for the first time on New Year's Day as revellers saw in 2003 by wishing friends and family a hpy nw yr.According to figures released today by the Mobile Data Association, the four UK mobile networks relayed a total of 102 million messages between midnight on December 31 2002 and midnight on January 1 2003.Despite the introduction of picture messaging, the popularity of simple 180 character text messages continues to soar.The new figures are 59% up on the same day last year and more than twice the 2002 daily average.Mobile operators have become more adept at handling large volumes of text messages, partly at the behest of broadcasters and advertisers who use the medium to communicate with consumers.There have also been fewer complaints of delays and messages failing to reach their destination.There were thousands of complaints in previous years when messages sent on New Year's Eve or at other busy times took hours or even days to arrive."The large amount of text messages sent at New Year confirms most people see text messaging as a warm and personal way to greet their friends and loved ones on special occasions," said Mike Short, the chairman of the Mobile Data Association."People are also exploring the range of messaging services that are becoming available," he added.In 10 short years, text messaging has become an integral part of many people's daily lives and has given rise to a whole new language.Over the past four years the popularity of the medium, originally developed as means of communication for telephone engineers, has far outstripped the expectations of mobile operators.Some 15 billion text messages were sent between January and November last year and the final total for 2002 is expected to top 16 billion.The steep growth curve of 2000 and 2001 may have levelled off as mobile phone penetration reaches saturation point but the total number of texts continues to grow.
... nobody really knows what Steve Jobs is going to say in today's keynote, but the queues to get in - which started forming long before 7am, when I arrived at the Moscone Center - are as long as they always are. Some of them look a lot like they've camped out here overnight. Just before 9am the doors will open and there will be a fantastic scrum to get the good seats, as everyone chases the VIP guests who get a head start - and breakfast beforehand. The media stumbles along behind. For those press men and women not quite at their optimum fighting weight, elbows and camera tripods help clear a path. Sometime after 11am (7pm GMT) we'll all do the same thing, in reverse, to get a seat in the press room. I'll send an update here the moment I get a WiFi connection...
Jon Lech Johansen, the Norwegian teenager known as DVD Jon, has been acquitted, reportsReuters,BBC News,IDG Newsetc etc.
