Games out this week includeHyperdimension Neptunia Producing Perfection(PS Vita), which is a spin on the idol simulator genre and takes place in the land of Gamindustri, where you play the role of Simon Cowell and put on a series of barely interactive concerts in order to rake in the moolah; Kickstarter-fundedLifeless Planet(PC) is an intriguing tale of a deep space astronaut's journey across an isolated world in search of his missing crew;Ultra Street Fighter IV(Xbox 360, PS3) comes with an almost overwhelming 44 fighters, new game modes and general rebalancing. Meanwhile, if you buy Mario Kart 8 and register it on Nintendo's website you'll get a free game from a list that includes magnificent organic  RTSPikmin 3, island-hopping RPG classicThe Legend Of Zelda: The Wind Waker HDand Wii U controller-justifying set of mini-games,Nintendo Land.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewYou're Aiden Pearce, a "fixer" who hacks the systems of near-future Chicago to steal money, evade police and administer vigilante justice. After a job goes bad, Aiden's niece is killed in a reprisal attack, starting him on the long road to revenge. Set in a reasonably bustling, often rainy metropolis and its rustic suburb, Pawnee, Watch Dogs' story suffers from generic characters, perfunctory dialogue and lack of humour. It makes up for that with a plethora of mini-games and side missions that range from taking out gang hideouts to augmented-reality games accessed with Aiden's smartphone. You'll divide the rest of your time between driving fast cars, and gunplay that's either stealthy or conducted with grenade launchers, assisted by a range of gadgets used to distract and immolate pursuers.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKPS Vita PetsTravelling a path well worn by Nintendogs, Kinectimals and dozens of online Tamagotchi  rip-offs, PS Vita Pets lets you adopt a puppy, then train it to do tricks, fetch sticks and sniff out treasure that's been buried in the woods. The real difference here, though, is that each dog speaks English, their anthropomorphised personalities set to sassy. That means the brown Dalmatian introduces herself as a "fun-loving dog that loves to shop' and never misses an opportunity to remind you, "I todally love to shop!" in a bubblegum American accent that will have you reaching for the anti-emetics. Your dog's cloying personality, insatiable thirst for water that needs to be bought in bottles from a shop, its continual cheerless wisecracking and uneven, uncanny-valley animation, make this less a game than a twisted nightmare of pet ownership that impales you on the horns of your dog's rampant consumerism and the game's desire to make a small amount of content go a long way.Sony, £21.99-£25.99
Uber, the online taxi dispatch service, announced on Friday that it had raised $1.2bn in new funds at a price that values the company at $17bn, among the highest valuations ever for a venture-backed startup.The company’s value has increased fivefold in less than a year. Last August, Uber was valued at $3.4bn after it raised $361.2m from investors including Google.Uber is now more highly valued than Hertz, the global car hire firm. Uber, founded in 2009, currently operates a software platform that connects passengers with freelance drivers. But investors are betting the company can use its software to create a far larger logistics network.The eye-popping valuation will fuel speculation that a new tech bubble is being inflated – especially among the companies in the so-called “sharing economy”.In April, Airbnb, a company that brings short-term renters together with homeowners, raised $475m at a price that valued the firm at about $10bn. Before Uber’s announcement, Lyft, a smaller car sharing rival to Uber whose cars are distinguished by giant pink moustaches, was being valued at $700m.Uber’s latest round of funding follows weeks of fierce bidding from venture-capital firms and fund managers. This round of investment was lead by Fidelity Investments and other big name investors including BlackRock, Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers and existing investors like Google Ventures.The company has expanded rapidly from its hometown of San Francisco and now lets people summon rides at the touch of a smartphone button in over 70 cities across the world. But it still faces a number of legal challenges. This week the state of Virginia issued a cease and desisit order to Uber and Lyft after fining them for operating without proper permits. Virginia is just one of a number of states in dispute with the companies.Sam Hamadeh, founder of the analyst PrivCO, said: &quot;Uber&apos;s uber-valuation is a stretch, given Uber&apos;s numerous legal and regulatory challenges not fully discounted in Uber&apos;s $17bn valuation. Much of Uber&apos;s business is in fact contrary to a matrix of laws, speaking as an attorney. VCs are investing in the ‘sharing economy’ will soon encounter the ‘regulated economy’.”
Nintendo is shutting down its European headquarters in Großostheim, Germany, laying off 130 workers in the process, the company announced on Friday.Frankfurt will become the gaming firm&apos;s new European headquarters following the closure of the office and warehouse in Großostheim. The firm is also consulting on &quot;outsourcing and reorganising some functions&quot; in Europe.&quot;These intended measures have not been made lightly and have only been arrived at after thorough analysis and careful consideration,&quot; the company said in a statement.&quot;The intended measures will sadly have a direct effect on some of the employees based in the Großostheim and Frankfurt offices in Germany and would lead to the release of approximately 130 permanent employees.&quot;The company will go through a consultation process before the closures and layoffs occur, and it hopes that they will &quot;in the long term… better enable the European business to adapt to the rapidly changing business environment.&quot;In May, Nintendo posted a net annual loss of £135m, and predicted just 3.6m sales of its flagship Wii U console for the 2014/15 financial year.Full Statement from Nintendo of EuropeNintendo of Europe has entered into a consultation process on a number of changes it is intending to make to its European business which, in the long term, will better enable the European business to adapt to the rapidly changing business environment.The measures include the consolidation of the current European headquarters in Großostheim (Germany) to Frankfurt (Germany), the closure of the warehouse and office in Großostheim, as well as outsourcing and reorganising some functions.These intended measures have not been made lightly and have only been arrived at after thorough analysis and careful consideration. The intended measures will sadly have a direct effect on some of the employees based in the Großostheim and Frankfurt offices in Germany and would lead to the release of approximately 130 permanent employees.Nintendo of Europe is committed to a fair consultation process with the local Works Council in Germany with the objective of providing clarity and support for all affected employees as soon as possible.•Nintendo&apos;s five ideas to save its future
5.44pmBSTOkay, that&apos;s the end of my day at Media Molecule. I&apos;ve had a lovely time. This is a studio that seems to genuinely work like its games – with charm and humour. See ya!5.43pmBSTKenny Young and Mark Zarb-Adami singing &apos;Hard Times Come Again No More&apos;. The perfect end to a lovely day.5.29pmBSTHere&apos;s an unlikely Twitter exchange...A Friday singalong at@mediamolecule. I bet this doesn&#39;t happen at Bungie.pic.twitter.com/DfEkUMhVgV&mdash; Keith Stuart (@keefstuart)June 6, 2014@keefstuart@mediamoleculeIs that a challenge!?@Bungie, let&#39;s do this!&mdash; Josh Hamrick (@Josh_Hamrick)June 6, 2014@josh_hamrick@keefstuart@bungieThat&#39;s the spirit!&mdash; Media Molecule (@mediamolecule)June 6, 2014@Josh_Hamrick@keefstuart@mediamoleculeOur Friday sing alongs come in the form of happy hour karaoke at the brew pub in our building.&mdash; Bungie (@Bungie)June 6, 20145.17pmBSTHere I chat to studio director Siobhan Reddy about the challenge of organising over 40 creative staff, and getting more women into the games industry.5.11pmBSTHere I speak to David Smith about the founding of Media Molecule, from the early fights (not physical) to the establishment of the studio&apos;s unique style.5.04pmBSTOkay, last batch of audio interviews coming your way!4.04pmBSTHere&apos;s me talking to Media Molecule audio director Kenny Young about folk music, sound design, getting into games composition and why, if you&apos;re not careful, the industry will CRUSH you.3.20pmBSTA self-portrait of Media Molecule artist Jon Eckersley.Jon Eckersley is an artist at Media Molecule. He got into the industry 12 years ago, making mods for Quake III (his co-modders ended up forming Splash Damage), before joining Rare and working with the old Star Fox Adventures team. After spells at Lionhead and indie start-up Ambient, he joined the Tearaway team.His work is most obvious in three key levels: The Tear, The Traveller and the Crash Site. &quot;where ever it went a bit weird, that was probably me,&quot; he says. Before he started on the project, he bought two key reference manuals: Folding Techniques for Designers by Paul Jackson and Papercraft: Design and Art With Paper.&quot;My ethos is, whenever I can, I try tomakesomething by hand. That pervades all of Molecule&apos;s work - it always has that hand-crafted aesthetic. I always think, how would I make this object in paper? It&apos;s very easy to over-complicate things, especially coming from a heritage of games like Black &amp; White 2. Every time, I just made it by hand, and simplified it. With the Tear level, Rex Crowe&apos;s vision was, you start in a desert and then the world implodes. I was like, &apos;oh my God, that&apos;s amazing! How do I make that in paper?&apos;.&quot;But actually if you boil it down, if you start in a desert and end up in a universe, there are just two concepts to work with. In the desert everything was made out of hexagons, then you&apos;re going to circles, which are the planets. And you&apos;re going from yellow to dark blue. As long as you get those basic elements sorted, it&apos;s just about shifting from one to the other.&quot;So is this idea of finding the simplicity in your art projects a transferable skill? &quot;I think it&apos;s often easy to forget, but these elements should always be in your head. Tearwayhadto simple or it just didn&apos;t look like paper. But that&apos;s an important lesson actually: shape, line light/dark value, colour – those are the main principles of art.&quot;He also envisaged the Traveller level, which curves around itself until the player meets another version of the lead character.The Traveller level from Tearaway: Cheers meets Twin Peaks.&quot;Rex&apos;s visual for that was the Cheers bar meets the hotel from Twin Peaks. When I first started, I went a little too dark. Before we start any level at Media Molecule, we make what we call an &apos;art level. There&apos;s no gameplay, we just nail the aesthetics. It&apos;s like animated concept art. However, the opening of the Traveller level is actually my art level – Rex just really wanted to put it in the final game.&quot;I really played around with the papery bendiness in the Traveller level. On all the levels the world slightly curves away from you, but I ramped that up to craziness, and I had all these paper horseheads that would nod whenever you moved the controller – lots of people haven&apos;t noticed that. But it was all about capturing that slightly Lynchian weirdness. In my first version I had all these little squirrels in cages. I went too Lynch. We got rid of that. We moved back towards Cheers.&quot;So if someone is reading this live blog and wondering what they need to be an artist at Media Molecule, what do they need to do? &quot;Make stuff,&quot; says Eckersley. &quot;Paint, draw, sculpt – the thing is, I didn&apos;t even study art, I just did it in my spare time. I became totally obsessed, actually. But that&apos;s okay. Obsession is good.&quot;Also, you&apos;re only as good as the worst piece in your portfolio – so don&apos;t shoveeverythingin there. &quot;I see loads of folios where there are 100 pieces – you&apos;ve got to self-edit. Even if you only put three pieces in, if they&apos;re amazing pieces, that&apos;s fine – we&apos;ll ask for more. You need a wide variety of skills here, too. If all you want to do is make characters, you won&apos;t get a job at Media Molecule. You&apos;ll fit in better at somewhere like Bungie, for example. If you want to try on many hats and come up with crazy ideas, you&apos;ll fit in here.&quot;But everything returns to &apos;how would I make this?&quot; People get caught up in this idea that it&apos;s all about learning the right tools, but it&apos;s just a chisel. I know a lot of people in games who got into art and animation without ever having used a computer. You can learn to use Maya, but you can&apos;t necessarily learn how to dogoodstuff in Maya.&quot;A good portfolio has a selection of concept artworks – some painted digitally, some fine art – and some 3D stuff. &quot;But in my interview we only actually talked about my paintings,&quot; says Eckersley. &quot;When I was at Ambient I built a little house in 3D, it took ages, but I built it out of stuff. It was a bit different – it wasn&apos;t another wrinkly old man or an alligator, which are really common.&quot;Think creatively. If you&apos;re passionate about working for a particular studio, tailor your portfolio to their work. When I applied to Lionhead, I made lots of stuff that would work in Fable. Immediately that makes a connection.&quot;&quot;Don&apos;t just apply to everything. Think of where you want to work, but also, it&apos;s a two way thing: which studio is going to make you a better artist?&quot;2.32pmBSTFor today&apos;s lunch I enjoyed a delicious chicken katsu curry which I bought in Guildford town centre. This beingthe Hollywood of games, I also bumped into Barry Meade from Fireproof Studios, creators of iPad hit, The Room. However, he completely blanked me so that&apos;s the last timehisgames are mentioned on this site.1.42pmBSTThere are lots of models and things hanging up around the Media Molecule office!12.49pmBSTAnimator Lluis Danti showed me a video of him acting out some of the key animations for Tearaway – this is his very physical way of creating visual references. I asked Media Molecule if I could show the footage, and they uploaded it to their YouTube channel for us!Lluis Danti providing his own visual reference material for Tearaway animations...12.38pmBSTMedia Molecule's life drawing room, which is filled with paints, brushes, easels and, of course, paintings.The studio holds regular life drawing classes for the art staff. This is a vital skill for animators who have to understand anatomy. The classes are held by well-known artist John T Freeman.12.24pmBSTComing up next, we have an interview with Media Molecule creative lead, Rex Crowle, here posing with two friends as the three wise monkeys.12.00pmBSTMedia Molecule animator Lluis Danti at his desk – complete with Street Fighter figures in the background. Hello Ken!I&apos;ve just been finding about life as an animator at Media Molecule. Lluis Danti studied multimedia and computer animation in Barcelona before moving to Scotland to work with Axis Animation, the famed video game cinematics studio (responsible for the award-winning Dead Rising trailer). Danti then moved to Tokyo to work on the Transformers and Tron animated cartoons with Polygon Pictures.He joined Media Molecule to work on Tearaway, quickly learning the studio&apos;s handicraft aesthetic. &quot;The idea was to create a game with a stop-motion feel,&quot; he says. &quot;It is set in a paper world, so we built characters in a realistic paper style. We knew that it would be a stop-motion feel, so that works at 12 frames per second; we also knew that paper doesn&apos;t stretch, it crumples, it&apos;s noisy - it has physical properties that every one knows. It was a good briefing to begin an animation style.&quot;Danti is known at Media Molecule as a very physical animator, often acting out and filming sequences himself. &quot;You always need short references, so if you&apos;re asked to animate jumping or rolling, you can either watch video references on YouTube, but if you don&apos;t find a suitable one, you have to shoot it yourself.&quot;They don&apos;t have a tradition of pure animators at Media Molecule, so I think they found it quite shocking. I would go into a room and shoot references. It&apos;s a nice tool to build up the characters&quot; He shows me a video of him acting out cut-scenes from Tearaway, pretending to be a Wendigo monster eating a pearl, or falling over onto a sofa, blocking the main poses of the animation. He even uses a cuddly Sackboy as a second character when he needs to animate two at once.He watched lots of classical stop-motion animation as well as the likes of Nightmare Before Christmas and Paranorman for inspiration. &quot;The best preparation was actually building models of the characters in paper,&quot; he says. &quot;You can play with them, touch them, and see how they deform. You get to really understand the physical properties. We had models all over the studio. We&apos;ve had to clean up a lot. There was a mountain of paper.&quot;Danti works predominantly in Maya. He had to learn quite quickly at Media Molecule that being a self-starter is more important in games than in animated movies. &quot;In an animation studio there are usually 30 to 60 animators; the lead animator will come over, give you a story board and says, &apos;you have this shot and this shot, this one is 150 frames, this is 70, this is 30 – that&apos;s your job&apos;. It&apos;s very specific, very limited. Here, there are no limits. Sometimes it&apos;s cool, but it can be stressful.&quot;As for the key skills of a games animator... &quot;The thing is, because we work with computers, people think animation is less &apos;arty&apos; than it was 50 years ago,&quot; says Danti. &quot;But animation is an artform, it&apos;s the ability to breathe life into an inanimate object. An animator could grab any object and make an amazing animation out of it. You need to have a good sense of story-telling, too, you need a good sense of timing – that&apos;s very important. And as a 3D animator it&apos;s very useful to know how to be able to draw, to see the poses clearly. Those are vital skills.&quot;11.31amBSTA quick run around the Media Molecule office!10.46amBSTFounded in 2006 by ex-Lionhead employees Mark Healey, Alex Evans, David Smith and Kareem Ettouney, Media Molecule is one of the most imaginative and innovative development studios in the modern games industry.Responsible for the creative platformer LittleBigPlanet, and the recently Bafta-award winning adventure Tearaway, this team has a unique approach to game design, merging cutting edge technology with handicraft visuals and creating delightfully whimsical experiences.I&apos;m here all day today, speaking to animators, artists, musicians, coders and the founders of the company about what makes Media Molecule tick.
Apple&apos;s Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) is over for another year - with the developers now leaving San Francisco and digesting what they learnt there.If you agree with Stefan Constantinethat there are only two important events in the annual technology calendar - Apple&apos;s WWDC and Google&apos;s I/O - then the first half is done.The first big question people have asked: where were the gadgets? Apple has released hardware at WWDC in the past - notably, iPhones, during the device&apos;s early years. This year? Nothing.On the big screenMake no mistake - Apple is clearly working on phones with larger screens. It&apos;s part of a drive to close every gap with Android for users and developers, while retaining the differences that have attracted existing users and business users, who demand complete security.Apple&apos;s wants to make iOS hugely attractive to developers, while not particularly helping those developers to write for Android. It wants to make iOS attractive for users, offering apps and features that people can&apos;t get on Android or don&apos;t want to forsake from Android, and extra features so that people will stay with the iOS ecosystem.A bigger phoneThe clues were right there in a functionality called &quot;adaptive display&quot; - which appeared for a moment in a slide, but isn&apos;t mentioned in thepublic details about what&apos;s new in iOS 8 for developers. Hidden a little deeper is the &quot;UIAdaptivePresentationControllerDelegate&quot; which &quot;works with a presentation controller to determine how to respond to size changes in your app&quot;. If it sounds abstruse, it&apos;s meant to - it&apos;s the key to a bigger display.Developers at WWDC told me that adaptive display is new this year, and that it does just what Android does: scales up vector assets so that they will fit a screen of undetermined size. That should mean that when Apple introduces one or more phones with larger screens, there won&apos;t be a long pause while developers resize icons and so on to take advantage of it, as happened with the introduction of the iPhone 5 in 2012.The mood music from Apple&apos;s executives is slightly different too. Early last year questions about screen size (which even then seemed like something where Android was beginning to split away) drew responses like &quot;we&apos;re quite happy with our screen sizes&quot; (which doesn&apos;t preclude a change, but doesn&apos;t exactly presage one either). Now it&apos;s &quot;we&apos;ve never said we&apos;re against larger screens, but we don&apos;t want to compromise on quality.&quot;Apple has always been picky about what&apos;s called the &quot;white point&quot; of its screens - which is how true on-screen colours are to real life. It has also fretted about the effects on a larger screen on battery life (though a larger screen should mean longer battery life, because proportionally more of the phone can be devoted to the battery while the chips to provide the phone and computing functionality don&apos;t change in size.)The &quot;swipe&quot; functionality introduced in iOS 7 - which always suggested larger screens were on the way, and that this was a training ground for them - seems a clear signal of larger iPhones in the autumn. There&apos;s no consensus onhowlarge. A 4.7in screen seems likely as it&apos;s a popular size in the Android market.But a 5.5in device, which would be classed as a &quot;phablet&quot; by analysts, seems possible. Ben Bajarin of Creative Strategies points out that Apple will struggle to compete effectively for sales in China unless it has a device tailored to that market - and Chinese phone users really like phablets. He thinks that a China-only launch for a phablet-sized iPhone is possible; the fact that it would create a grey market (in which those would be unofficially exported from China to other countries) is just a neat irony, given how many iPhones were brought to China by grey imports.With a bigger iPhone, Apple would be able to close one of the gaps that has been a key advantage for Android - that some people like larger screens, and that using one tends to have a ratchet effect: once you&apos;ve done it, you don&apos;t go back.Coming attractions: keyboards, extensions and widgetsA year ago, the British company Swiftkey was quietly confident that third-party keyboards would be allowed into iOS 7 - the first time that Apple had allowed another product to replace a system-wide one.It didn&apos;t happen, and Apple indicated to me last year that ithad concerns about security. But this week, Apple said that third-party keyboards will be allowed in iOS 8 - subject to the proviso that they can&apos;t send data to the cloud without first getting the user&apos;s explicit permission.That&apos;s only the half of it. As Swiftkey&apos;s Joe Braidwood pointed out to me,Apple&apos;s preliminary support documentation(which, it should be noted, could change) on third-party keyboards has all sorts of spaces where they can&apos;t play.For instance, the section &quot;System Keyboard Features Unavailable to Custom Keyboards&quot; includes password text fields, and phone number fields in the Contacts app. (Apple says its system keyboard will pop up for those.) Nor can they access the clipboard with its contents from Cut, Copy or Paste actions. And third-party keyboards can&apos;t show &quot;key artworks&quot; - which seems to mean word suggestions - in the top line above the keyboard, unlike the iOS 8 keyboard.Taken together, that&apos;s maximum security. Braidwood is hopeful that things will relax as the release comes closer in the autumn. But it&apos;s clear from that document that Apple definitely hasn&apos;t gotten over its concerns about security. I&apos;m told that there are extra protections built into iOS 8 - and the bans on password (officially, &quot;secure text&quot;) fields may be part of it.How big will third-party keyboards be? There&apos;s an assumption by some people that because they use one, everyone else in the world is desperate to. But the evidence from the Google Play Store is less clear. Here are some third-party keyboards and their download numbers:Swype Keyboard Free: 1m-5m downloadsSwype paid(£2.42): 0.5m-1m downloadsGoogle Keyboard: 10m-50m downloads. The latest update includes &quot;Improved suggestions and corrections using data from Google apps and services&quot;, which means it would have a tricky time initially on iOS.Swiftkey Free: 10m-50m downloadsSwiftkey paid(£2.99): 1m-5m downloadsai.type Keyboard free: 10m-50m downloadsFleksy(offers in-app purchases): 0.5m-1m downloadsTouchPal X(offers in-app purchases): 10m-50m downloadsAdd these together and third-party keyboards seem a significant business, yet an examination of the reviews suggests that many people try out multiple keyboards before settling on one - so many of these downloads aren&apos;t active. The aggregate of the figures above is between 43m and 211m downloads (taking the upper and lower limits of each figure); the higher figure would suggest that 1 in every 5 Android devices has a third-party keyboard on it - which seems unlikely. Given the propensity to download multiple different ones, a more realistic market on Android is somewhere between 50m and 60m devices.That&apos;s nothing to sneeze at - but forecasting the size on iOS is harder, because Apple is simultaneously upgrading its keyboard in iOS 8 to give it a prediction system.ExtensibilityApple is finallyallowing different apps to communicate their ability to deal with data from other apps. While Android has had &quot;intents&quot; forever, so that apps can indicate that they deal with text, or photos, or video, and offer to take output from other apps that generate those sorts of content, or let you direct that content to them, Apple has always bound apps more tightly.The capability to do this has been around in iOS for a couple of years now, but Apple held back from implementing it - perhaps last year because there was enough upheaval for developers in the swipe-based redesign of iOS 7.With extensions, apps will be able to indicate that they can perform certain functions,such as adding a filter to a photo. That will be registered with the system, and those extensions will then show up via iOS&apos;s &quot;sharing&quot; button. So if you take a photo and then want to apply a filter or effect from one app, and then share that photo on Instagram and/or Twitter and/or Facebook, you&apos;ll call up the filter/effect extension, apply it, and then call up the Instagram/Twitter/Facebook extensions, and use those to send the modified photo - all while staying in the Photos app.It&apos;s a lot simpler than the multi-app dance that Apple has forced on people so far.Yet - security! - those apps applying the effects and sending the data will be sandboxed from the ones they&apos;re interacting with: the filter/effect app won&apos;t get access to all of your photos, only the one being handled.Again, Apple&apos;s closing the gap with what Android has offered - providing a way to tempt people over from Android so that they aren&apos;t frustrated by what they can&apos;t do on iOS. Or, alternatively, it&apos;s a way to win back iOS users who might have left the platform.WidgetsWidgets on iOSaren&apos;t quite the same as on Android, where they are mini-apps such as the weather or clock which reside on the home screen and update in real time. On iOS, they are mini-apps, but they run in the slide-down Notifications panel, and specifically in the &quot;Today&quot; part (which also contains the calendar).One difference from Android widgets is that iOS won&apos;t let them update all the time. Instead, it will only update the widget when the Today view is opened - that&apos;s because of the concern about draining battery life again. (Widgets on Android are notorious juice-suckers.) But they&apos;re a &quot;nice to have&quot;, and part of the way in which the Notifications panel is becoming ever more complex - and yet useful.CloudGoogle&apos;s cloud powers the back end of Android. Now Apple is going all-in on cloud features in iOS 8, with explicit features like iCloud Drive (which offers file system navigation for people who can&apos;t get enough of file trees) but also background data transfer. Developers can now store data directly into iCloud, and photos and changes will be stored too. Charges for users are minimal; charges for developers are fractional. Apple is making cloud storage (including photos and edits of photos) part of what it does naturally.As to whether Apple&apos;s iCloud is really Apple&apos;s storage and processing, or whether it&apos;s just rented from another company, I was told by authoritative sources that Apple doesn&apos;t &quot;white label&quot; or buy in any of iCloud: it&apos;s all Apple&apos;s own equipment running it.As Benedict Evans of Andreessen Horowitzcomments:The whole of WWDC is full of cloud. A very large proportion of the new user-facing features touch the cloud in some way, as a conduit or as storage. And the ones that don’t use what you might call the personal cloud - the Bluetooth LE/Wifi mesh around you (such as HealthKit or HomeKit). So edit a photo and the edits are on all your devices, run out of room and your photos stay on the cloud but all but the previews are cleared off your phone, tap a phone number on a web page on your Mac and your phone dials it. But none of this says ‘CLOUD™’ and none of it is done in a web browser. Web browsers are for web pages, not for apps. Hence one could suggest that Apple loves the cloud, just not the web (or, not URLs). This is obviously a contrast with Google, which has pretty much the opposite approach.iMessageAccording to Craig Federighi, Apple&apos;s software chief, the Messages app is the one that people spend the most time in per day. Apple is thus enhancing it to tie people more closely to it by allowing users to:• send self-destructing voice and video messages (they are wiped once consumed, unless the receiver chooses to keep them)• see a quick view of photos exchanged during a conversation• name conversations• silence a multi-person conversation• temporarily share present location with the people you&apos;re messaging• permanently share location with others in a conversationNone of those is going to immediately stop people using Snapchat, WhatsApp, voicemail or location-sharing apps such as Glympse. But that&apos;s not the idea, as Jan Dawson of Jackdaw Researchpoints out. The idea is to make the iOS Messages app more attractive than those on other platforms, so that people who are on iOS are held to it, and those who aren&apos;t are bugged by their iOS-using friends to switch. (Peer pressure matters to the iMessage-using demographic, one guesses.)That&apos;s something Samsung has recognised with its own ChatOn messaging service, whichhad 100m users last September: if you can tie people to your platform with your messaging app, they&apos;re likely to stay there.That gives the broad shape of Apple&apos;s battle plan in the software and services side of the smartphone market, which is approaching saturation (and hence the point where further growth has to be won from rival platforms).The desktop computer stuffMost of the changes coming to OS X, codenamed &quot;Yosemite&quot;, won&apos;t affect most computer users - because there are only 80m Mac OS X users, and only half of those are on the latest version of OS X (&quot;Mavericks&quot;). But Apple&apos;s strategy is clear here too: encourage people who have an iPhone (a far larger number than Mac owners) to get a Mac too, because there are useful things it can do.The most notable is &quot;Handoff&quot; and &quot;Connectivity&quot;, which lets you route phone calls and text messages (not just iMessages) to your OS X computer. For some people, that&apos;s going to be invaluable - apart from anything, it&apos;s faster typing on a dedicated keyboard than a phone keyboard.Yes, you can do the SMS-routing between Android and Windows withMightySMS phone to PC and Mac- but not many people have as yet; it has between 1m and 5m downloads. Itsterms of servicealso say that &quot;MightyText may need to store message content on its servers to facilitate the transmission of the messages to your devices&quot; - which might give some pause for thought.Data protectionA theme - never made explicit, but alluded to many times - was that Apple is pushing its data privacy angle in comparison to Google and Facebook. Yes, they are there as services on iOS - but it&apos;s also introducing DuckDuckGo, which doesn&apos;t store any user data at all, as an optional search engine on both iOS and OS X. It&apos;s the first time DuckDuckGo has had any mobile presence, and a big win for it. Apple is slowly but surely pushing Google away from iOS: Siri search doesn&apos;t use Google, but Bing and Wolfram Alpha. Google+ isn&apos;t an option anywhere. You get to decide app permissions, rather than having to accept them in a lump.This is just the consumer-facing stuff - we haven&apos;t touched onApple&apos;s new computer language, Swift, developed in complete secrecy since 2010, or its Metal API for faster graphics performance.So now we await Google I/O. It should be interesting.•Apple previews new mobile software at WWDC 2014
A game made by a 12-year-old developer in just two months has been named one of the &quot;best new games&quot; on Apple&apos;s App Store.Spacepants, developed by Sam Smith, can now be found on the front page of the app store, sandwiched between the Family Guy game, &quot;The Quest for Stuff&quot;, and the New York Times Crossword.After Spacepants was featured on the front page,Sam writes, &quot;everything seemed to happen at once.&quot;&quot;Everyone’s tweeting me, I’m getting interview requests… I’m both humbled, and totally overwhelmed by everyone’s support. Thank you.&quot;Spacepants on the front page. Photograph: /AppleSpacepants was made using Game Maker, a simple piece of software that lets users with little or no programming experience make games. &quot;It does a lot of the difficult stuff behind the scenes,&quot; Sam says, &quot;so you can concentrate on design and content.&quot; With that hand, the game took a month to make, &quot;and one further month to polish and get just right.&quot;The game itself is a simple endless runner: the player&apos;s character, an exobiologist named Guy, uses his space pants to walk up walks and long ceilings. &quot;But when his spacepants malfunction and cannot be stopped, Guy&apos;s survival skills will be tested to the limit.&quot;When Stuart Dredgereviewed it for the Guardian, he said it &quot;certainly has the just-one-more-go replayability factor, as its hero runs around the floor, walls and ceilings of a single screen jumping to catch hearts and avoid obstacles. Even if you didn&apos;t know that it&apos;s the work of a 12 year-old, you&apos;d be impressed by its pixelly retro look and challenging (to say the least) difficulty curve.&quot;Smith&apos;s father, Jonathan, is also a game developer, andhelped Sam&quot;with some of the maths, and Game Center,&quot; Apple&apos;s high-score sharing system. He also introduced Sam to Game Maker, as well as Twine, another system for making it easy to create games (though Twine is for text-only games, rather than intensely visual games such as Spacepants).It&apos;s not Sam&apos;s first game – that&apos;s a project called Dig Dig Dig, which never made it to the App Store – but, given its success, it looks unlikely to be his last either.•Flappy Bird dwarfs Instagram and Minecraft as kids&apos; favourite app
Apple took developers by surprise on Tuesday by announcing Swift, a new programming language for developing apps across Apple’s platforms.Until now, most apps on Apple devices have been built using Objective-C, the language almost exclusively adopted by NeXT corporation years ago and subsequently by Apple.Objective-C now seems to be on its way out, superseded by a language that looks to be &quot;safe, modern and powerful&quot;, according to Apple’s engineering chief, Craig Federighi. But how powerful is this new language, and what difference will it make to the global community of developers building for Apple products.What is Swift?Swift is Apple’s new programming language, which has been in development for the past four years and which looks to replace Objective-C as the main language for app development on Apple’s platforms, OSX and iOS.It’s a major departure from the syntax of Objective-C and takes a lot of cues from other languages, such as Haskell, C#, Ruby and Python, which Apple presumably hopes will make it appealing to bright young coders, keen on modern languages.Although it’s a major departure, Apple have taken a lot of trouble to make the transition to Swift as painless as possible. It is fully binary compatible with existing Objective-C libraries and maintains a close relationship with the Cocoa frameworks.That means that developers can introduce Swift into their apps at their own pace, by writing discrete modules that should seamlessly interoperate with their existing Objective-C code.But I’m good at Objective-C. Am I a dinosaur?Objective-C has been very useful for Apple because it has allowed them to maintain full control of of their entire technology stack and to adapt it by adding features over the years, such asAutomatic Reference Counting.Unfortunately, the language is rather stuck in the past – it&apos;s C, on steroids. Developers that use modern languages tend not to spend time on the minutiae of memory management or fixing bugs, due to referencing pointers to the wrong memory address. C is inherently unsafe in these terms and this is the primary thing that Swift is trying to fix.Safety is good, but what else is new?Apple has decided to prioritise language readability in this first release, although I imagine that may change as it gets more adoption – programmers tend to value short, concise code. But they have introduced a special type, the &quot;tuple&quot;, which wraps a number of values into one, addinggenerics,closuresandoperator overloading. There are many features missing that are benefits of other languages, but Swift makes a convincing version one.What are the other improvements around Objective-C?Type InferenceIn Swift there is no need to annotate variables with type information as the compiler can infer type based on the value a variable is being set to. Due to the dynamic nature of Objective-C, type is not truly known at compile time because methods may be added to existing classes, entirely new classes added or instance type changed all at runtime.Type SafetyWith Swift, the compiler can be more helpful in catching subtle type related bugs. As the compiler knows more about type in any method call, it can optimise certain call sites and jump directly to the implementation using C++ style vtable dispatch, rather than going through dynamic dispatch as in Objective-C. This enables smart optimisations that can make code run faster.Control FlowThe humble switch statement has undergone a radical overhaul in Swift and can now match against ranges, list of elements, boolean expression, enums amongst others. It doesn’t fall through by default, and is further enhanced by Swift’s flexible pattern matching.OptionalsAn optional type is a type that might contain a value of a type. It allows you to more easily convert between types and avoid null checks. Optionals can be chained together to protect from exceptions when calling multiple methods or properties in a chain where one call might return “nil”.StringsStrings are now easier to deal with in Swift, with a cleaner syntax than Objective-C, eg: concatenate strings using “+=“.Where next?Apple have made a big step by introducing Swift, which has largely been well received by developers at WWDC. The real test will be the response from developers in the real world, and whether this change motivates non-Apple developers to migrate. Judging by the emphasis that Apple is putting on promoting this language (with lab sessions all day, every day at WWDC) they are betting on it being a success.•Thank you, Basic: developers remember 50 years of creative coding
Later this year, British schools will get a new computing curriculum, including an introduction to programming for children as young as five years old.The news was cause for celebration within the technology industry, and for many teachers too – but there is also trepidation within the latter group, especially for teachers who haven’t taught computing before, let alone coding.Some of those technology companies that were lobbying for the changes are trying to help. Earlier this year,Google announced plans to invest £120k in a separate training initiative for primary school teachersin the UK, working with national coding clubs network Code Club.Microsoft is also involved in this area, having recently announced its own partnership with UK organisation Computing at Schools (CAS) to invest £334k in ‘Back to School’ training sessions for primary and secondary school teachers ahead of the new curriculum’s introduction in September.Microsoft claims that the training and resources will be available for around one in five primary school teachers in the UK, as well as three specialist teachers in every secondary school.“Our target is to get to 50,000 teachers in the coming months. It’s not going to happen overnight, but that’s our target, and that’s how this money will be used,” says Steve Beswick, Microsoft’s director of education in the UK.The new investment follows a previous project early this year in partnership with educational publisher Rising Stars, sending out Switched On Computing materials to teachers in 17,000 primary schools around the UK, including integrating the company’s ownKoduvisual programming language.“We’ve been championing this for a long time now. Our attention has been focusing on skill shortages in the UK: in the software industry alone there are 20,000 graduate vacancies a year around this area, and only 7,500 computer-scientist graduates to fill them,” says Beswick.“We’re trying to get to a stage where those jobs are filled, and we see the gap getting bigger if we don’t do something about it.”However, Beswick also suggests that the drive towards training teachers (and thus children) better is about all kinds of jobs beyond software development.“80% of jobs today require some sort of computer knowledge, and that’s just going to grow. If you take a 16 year-old who’s leaving college today, if they want to be an entrepreneur – an SME in the UK economy – they must know something about computers in order to be competitive in the market. They need to know about websites, about search,” he says.“Out there might be a new Bill Gates, and we want to nurture that person, even if they’re five years old, so that in 10 years’ time they can create a new company that’s got the new big thing.”Nurturing teachers is as much on the mind of companies like Microsoft, though. Beswick says there’s a pressing need to assuage their concerns about the new curriculum coming in so soon.“If you said ‘algorithms’ to a primary school teacher, many would probably say a.) I don’t know what you’re talking about and b.) How am I going to teach this?” he says.“But if you break it down – an algorithm is a set of instructions that’s put in a certain order to do something, like a recipe for baking a cake or making a sandwich – you get the teacher out the front buttering the bread, holding the knife, and doing it in the way a computer does it.”“Teachers might be a bit worried and scared about the new curriculum, but they can break down that barrier with a bit of help. And we think that if kids get engaged with this curriculum, it will also help with maths and english,” he adds.“Ultimately, you want to embed computing into everything: yes, there might be a specific computing part of the curriculum which is mandated by the government, but you can use that skill to help with english, maths, history…”•Code Club opens up coding-for-kids projects for UK parents•Aardman aims to get kids coding with Shaun the Sheep contest•Tynker is the latest iPad app aiming to teach kids to codeBeswick stresses that he’s not suggesting computers are the answer to every educational problem – more that it’s a way of getting children engaged in a wider range of subjects if they’re comfortable with these devices. “They like using them, so let’s go to them and start using what they like using,” he says.In fact, Beswick suggests that teachers intimidated by the new computing curriculum might even be able to get children to help – something that might build the confidence of their pupils.“If a kid is good at computers, and the teacher uses that person in class to show how to do things, the confidence that child has in other lessons is a brilliant thing to see,” he says.And then there’s the introduction of programming at an earlier age – a development that’s been controversial in some quarters, with arguments over the value of teaching it to children so young.Beswick uses the analogy of learning to drive, suggesting that proving knowledge of basic computing skills like word processing, spreadsheets and presentations are akin to the driving test, but that there is more to be learned.“Using a computer is like driving a car: everybody has to take a test and be competent at it. But you have to understand a little more about what’s under the bonnet of the car too,” he says.“We’re not saying that everybody becomes a car mechanic or a software developer, but we will probably find more future developers and coders with this curriculum, and they will get those jobs that need to be filled.”“Coding isn’t just coding. In many cases it’s helping with maths, english, strategic thinking. All those things are pretty good! Kids are engaged by this technology, so wow, what an opportunity that presents for us, including the chance to change the way we educate people,” he adds.“But this has to be done in the context of training – and retraining – our teachers, and having great head teachers to drive this forward. The role of the teacher is probably going to change a bit, but they are still a really important part of this equation.”What about the dangers of a digital divide? Some schools are buying in a tablet for every child and outfitting sparkling new computer labs, while others simply don’t have the resources.Is there a danger of a widening gap between schools teaching computing based on the resources they have?“My message for schools is don’t just think about buying the device. There’s a lot of emphasis on the purchase of devices, but start by saying ‘how do I want to transform my school at the top level? What are my aims and aspirations, and work back from that to how I want to embed IT into that,” says Beswick.“You’ve got to start at the beginning. It’s not about saying ‘I want the next gadget’. And part of that transition is you’ve got to take your teachers with you: great head teachers and leadership that talk about the journey that the school is on. If not, you end up with a load of kit that gets potentially wasted.”Microsoft, Apple and Google are all working hard at getting their devices into more schools, and the competition may well drive down not just prices, but also increase the amount of help available for head teachers trying to negotiate that transition.“We are very aware of the digital divide [between schools] but we think that’s coming down,” says Beswick. “Our strategy worldwide is anytime anywhere learning for all, and technology has a massive part to play in that. We don’t want anybody left behind.”•Seven kids coding projects that crowdfunded their first steps
Transport services Uber and Lyft have been ordered to shut down their operations in Virginia, the US&apos;s 12th most populous state, in yet another tussle with authority for the internet-based companies.The Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) issued cease-and-desist letters to the two companies. It joins a long line of cities and states in the US and elsewhere, including London, where Uber in particular has faced legal challenges to its operations, which connect drivers and would-be riders via an app. Opponents say it is running an unlicensed taxi service - but Uberdescribes itselfas a ride-sharing service, as does Lyft.The motoring authority in Virginia, which has 8.2 million residents, previously fined both Uber and Lyft more than $35,000 (£20,800), claiming they were operating without proper permits under Virginia’s passenger carrier laws, which the state says applies to &quot;any business that receives compensation to provide or facilitate transportation”.“I am once again making clear that Uber must cease and desist operating in Viriginia until it obtains proper authority,” Richard Holcomb, commissioner of the Virginia DMV saidin order sent to Uberon Thursday. Lyft was simultaneouslysent the same letter.“The DMV will issue civil penalties to Uber’s drivers that do not have authority to provide transportation for compensation,” Holcomb warned.‘Uber’s operations are not ridesharing arrangements’Uber, which has raised over $300m in venture capital, has long portrayed its business as being based on ride-sharing, and that it is simply “connecting riders to drivers”.Uber approves drivers, and issues them with equipment in the form of an app. But they do not have in-car meters, which the company argues exempts it from taxi licensing laws. Riders choose a pickup point and destination; the driver takes them between the desired places, at which the rider leaves the car without paying the driver. Instead, Uber bills the rider, based on time and distance. Uber pays the driver.However Holcomb says that Uber and Lyft must be licensed as a traditional taxi company.“Uber’s operations are not ridesharing arrangements as defined in Virginia law because Uber receives compensation for its services,” said Holcomb.But in a statementreleased to the Washington Post, Uber said: “Uber has been providing Virginians with safe, affordable and reliable transportation options for months and has continued to work in good faith with the DMV to create a regulatory framework for ridesharing. We look forward to continuing to work with the Virginia DMV to find a permanent home for ridesharing in the Commonwealth [of Virginia].”Lyft said in a statement to the Washington Post: “We’ve reviewed state transportation codes and believe we are following the applicable rules. We’ll continue normal operations as we work to make policy progress.&quot;Fighting on many frontsVirginia is not the first state or city in the US to take action against Uber and other app-based services. It has been banned in Portland, New Orleans and Miami. Houston, the US&apos;s fourth-largest city with 2.6m people and the biggest not to allow Uber, is currently in a battle with the company, which has started to operate in the city but only on a no-fee basis. Houston legislation currently prohibits the app-based services operating for profit, and politicians therehave not been pleased with Uber&apos;s tactics.Uber is also facing opposition in Maryland, with 5.2 million people, where the state’s chief public utility law judge said it must file an application to operate as a for-hire carrier – a traditional taxi company.Outside the US Uber’s reception has been mixed. London’s cab drivers are currently in a row with the company and Transport for London (TfL) over what is and isn’t a taxi meter,which has been pushed to the high court.Only London taxis can charge using a meter, but black-cab drivers claim Uber’s app - which tracks rides using GPS - is tantamount to a meter. TfL says it is not because the smartphone using the GPS is not physically attached to the cars.The outcome at the high court will not only affect Uber’s London operations, but also its recently launched Manchester service.Uber and Lyft had not responded to a Guardian request for comment by the time of publication.•Victorian taxi regulator in Australia issues fines to drivers using Uber•Uber sued by family of six-year-old killed in a crash in San Francisco
Google&apos;s Project Tango, the company&apos;s attempt to give mobile devices the ability to understand the layout of the real world, will come to tablets as well as phones.The company has revealed the development kit for the tablet version of the project. It&apos;s a 7&quot; tablet, the same form factor as the company&apos;s Nexus 7, but with vastly more powerful guts: NVIDIA&apos;s quad-core Tegra K1, 4GB of RAM and 128GB of storage. It also has the all-important motion-tracking camera and integrated depth sensing.Project Tango is run by Google&apos;s Advanced Technologies and Projects (ATAP) division, with the aim of making the most of depth sensors and 3D cameras to produce fully three-dimensional maps of interior spaces. It&apos;s akin to strapping Microsoft&apos;s Kinect to a phone, and then waving it around the room to build a map of the space it&apos;s in.But although Google&apos;s provided developers with a slight hint as to the sort of thing they are expecting,suggesting that users&quot;could capture the dimensions of your home simply by walking around with your phone before you went furniture shopping&quot; or &quot;search for a product and see where the exact shelf is located in a super-store&quot;, it&apos;s eager to give developers the chance to guide where the software goes.As with Google Glass, wannabe early adopters can sign up for the chance to buy the Project Tango tablet when it goes on sale &quot;later this year&quot;, for the round (if you&apos;re a developer) price of $1,024 (£608.50). It&apos;s already fairly close to shipping quality,according to Engadget&apos;s Brad Molen, who writes that &quot;the tablet actually looks like it could pass as a consumer device&quot;.•Google&apos;s Project Tango reveals location-aware phone
Marina O'Loughlin: 'I'm an Instagram bore'I was out for lunch with a senior industry figure, a man loved and revered in the food biz. As the food started arriving, I whipped out my phone and began to position the dishes in the best light, at the best angles for snapping. To my astonishment, the usually charming, softly spoken chap exploded: "Put that fucking thing away! I simply cannot stand it!"Yes, I'm one of those most derided of internet denizens, the food Instagrammer. Recently, Time Out published a cartoon of us: we are scrawny, earnest, our clothes so fashionable we look like Edwardian urchins, with designer glasses and bushy beards. There's nothing so easily lampoonable. The general subtext is: who on earth is interested in seeing pictures of your dinner, you silly, shallow sod? But the answer to that is simple: other food Instagrammers, of course.The idea that you might want to show people you don't know photographs of your breakfast would once have been risible. To click your camera, remove the spool, take it to Boots and wait for the shiny card things to display proudly to anyone who stood still long enough – how bonkers. But one of the joys of the internet is that there's no pursuit so niche that you can't find willing participants.I've posted everything from Michelin three-star haute cuisine in the Black Forest to a packet of Wotsits on Southeastern trains. I've been known to avoid something delicious (cassoulet in Toulouse, for instance) in favour of something not quite so alluring (raw calves' brains), because that's what will get most "likes" for my bravery. And then when my phone died before I&nbsp;got a chance to captureles cervelles, I&nbsp;had the most unattractive, Veruca Salt meltdown. I can sulk equally unattractively if the "likes" don't come. I hate myself for it, but if it doesn't pass the magic number of 11, at which point the "likers" are no longer listed by name, I'm as bad as any teenage girl. If I get an acknowledgment from one of the stars of the weirdo food-Instagrammer firmament, I'm as giddy as a kipper. (I recently batted off a tantrum from my daughter with the immortal words: "Not now, sweetie – I'm speaking to René Redzepi on Twitter.")In my defence, I am not the worst of the breed. I have eaten in restaurants where diners have set up tripods for their SLRs; or made everyone stop eating while they ferried the dishes to the window for "better light". Perhaps this is why mine are so cr… er, amateurish.I finally managed to calm my food guru chum via the application of a great deal of burgundy, but I know he thinks less of me because I take pictures of my lunch for strangers. I&nbsp;guess I'll just have to live with that.Stuart Heritage: 'I outsourced my life''For a tenner a month, plus an hourly fee, GetFriday promised that a virtual personal assistant would carry out all manner of tasks, from organising my calendar to tracking down my lost pets.' Illustration: Ben Lamb for the GuardianThe internet is full of services desperate to do your chores. Sign up toTaskRabbitand someone will assemble furniture for you. OnJinn, people will buy and deliver food or shopping for you. Meanwhile onPeoplePerHour, there's a guy promising to prepare your business accounts for £25. He's dressed as Batman, though, which might not bode well. But if you're a relentless workaholic and your time is too valuable to indulge in mindless busywork, these services can be a godsend. You can live like a king, if you're the right sort of person.But I'm not the right sort of person. I don't need to outsource anything, because I don'tdoanything. I don't have meetings, or places to go. I wake up, walk six steps to a computer, sit there for nine hours, eat and then fall asleep. That's my life.However, part of me still wanted to step behind this velvet rope of opulent splendour so, after chancing upon an Indian company calledGetFriday, I took the plunge. For a tenner a month, plus an hourly fee, GetFriday promised that a virtual personal assistant would carry out all manner of tasks, from organising my calendar to tracking down my lost pets. They assigned me a PA named Krupa. She excelled at social media and had an MBA in marketing. Best of all, I was 80% convinced that she actually existed.I dutifully wrote up a list of tasks I wanted Krupa to take care of. Top of that list was "book me a haircut". But my reservations about needing a PA were so pronounced that, instead of contacting Krupa, I did something dumb. I cut my own hair. Rather than send an email, I walked into my bathroom and started hacking away at my hair with a pair of nail scissors, like a deranged person in a bad horror film. I look like a fire-damaged Worzel Gummidge.But at least this ordeal helped to shake me out of my insecurities. Krupa was there to be utilised, so I asked her to find out where I could get a suit altered, and she did it instantly. I asked her to research potential holiday locations, and she did that too. Then I asked her to run my Twitter account for 24 hours. She posted these tweets on my behalf:"I wish I get a chance to look at Giant George the world's tallest dog.""Where ever I go, people are following me, says 'Twitter'.""I wish today is Sunday, but its Friday.""Planning to hire Virtual Assistant, will it work?"After that, I caught the outsourcing bug a little. I joined a shopping service calledThread, where a stylist picks clothes for you each week based on your personal information. It's not flawless – my stylist recommended I buy a £355 backpack, and may have misread my information as: "Please dress me as the star of a low-budget remake of Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy about the adventures of a latter-day Jeremy Clarkson" – but I did end up buying some trousers.Then I joinedGousto, which sends you ingredients for specific meals each week. It sounded easier than planning all my dinners from scratch, but more impressive than  getting pizza delivered. Gousto was blisteringly expensive, but that's apparently the price of free time.However, I'd already delegated so much that I was starting to resent having to do anything for myself at all. Cook my own food? My time was far too precious. And that's where TaskRabbit came in.On TaskRabbit, cleaners, handymen and organisers offer to come and carry out small jobs. However, I wanted something specific. My job request read:"WANTED: Someone to come and cook dinner for me."But there was a flaw in my plan. My girlfriend would be on a fast day, and Gousto meals are all for two. I added a few more words:"WANTED: Someone to come and cook dinner for me, and then eat it with me."Brilliant. But why stop there? I perfected my request:"WANTED: Someone to come and cook dinner for me, and then eat it with me. And then wash up."My girlfriend wasn't thrilled with me inviting a stranger for a quasi-romantic meal for two, but she'd been funny with me for a while. This, I suspect, is because I downloadedBroApp. It's an Australian iPhone app that allows you to maintain relationships without expending an ounce of effort, by sending out a string of automated romantic text messages on your behalf.Some people have pinpointed BroApp as a new low in outsourcing, noting how inherently lazy, unquestionably creepy, borderline sociopathic and sort of misogynistic it is. But I didn't sign up to evaluate the morals of an anonymous app developer on the other side of the world. I signed up to make my life easier. The first text went out when my girlfriend was with friends. It simply read: "xoxo".Now, I don't put kisses at the end of anything, as a matter of principle – it's the sort of act of extreme intimacy that I'd only really feel comfortable with after about 50 unbroken years of marriage – and my girlfriend knows this. I worried that she'd see through the ruse immediately. After all, she is smart. Luckily for me, at this point she was also drunk, so I got away with it.She took the next text in her stride, too. It was: "Je t'aime". Her reply was a casual: "Je also t'aime". Then came the third text, which is where the problems started. The third text that BroApp thought that I would write was this:"U better b ready for an attack from smooch monster tonight!!"The reply came immediately. "Have you been mugged?" Before I could answer, she phoned. She never phones. My use of text-speak, combined with the term "smooch monster" and repeated use of an emoticon, had unsettled her.The problem was that I was on the quiet coach of a train, so I couldn't answer without angering my fellow passengers. What was the next best option? Blow my cover with an explanatory text? Hardly. So I got in touch with Krupa, who composed the following message:"Good morning! I am Krupa, Stuart's assistant, sending you an email on behalf of your friend. Stuart is enjoying his travel back to London. He is fine and has not had any trouble. Please don't worry  for him. He will meet you soon. Have a great day!"There. Perfect. Well, maybe not perfect – straight after Krupa sent it, I received another sniffy text: "Nothing puts those sorts of concerns to bed like an email from a stranger."So things weren't great, even before TaskRabbit. My girlfriend had initially refused to come home, while my helper – whom she'd started to refer to as "the floozy" – was cooking for me. But ask yourself this: what's creepier? Cooking a meal and eating it with one strange man in his home, or cooking a meal and eating it with one strange man in his home while his girlfriend sits there awkwardly in silence watching you both? It's obviously the first one, so I coerced my girlfriend into joining me. I'm pleased I did, because she got on famously with my helper. Her name was Daphne, she was a university student who'd just completed her final-ever exam and for some reason had decided to celebrate by travelling to the arse-end of London to cook a curry for a weirdo. The food she made was delicious, she was boundlessly enthusiastic and the three of us ended up eating and drinking and chatting for hours into the evening.Daphne was so disarmingly friendly that it was almost like inviting a friend for dinner. I say almost, because you don't usually order your friends to wash up immediately after you've finished eating, and friends don't tend to charge you £45 to – essentially – heat up a ready meal. I'd have Daphne back in a heartbeat if I could, but I'd die impoverished if I did so I won't.Despite this success, it was becoming clear that outsourcing was out of my budget. And that meant firing Krupa. I've never fired anyone before, and I wanted to make it as painless as possible. So before I pulled the trigger, I gave her a couple of final tasks. First, I asked her to compose an honest assessment of me as a boss.She wrote: "Stu, the day you signed up with GetFriday, I was keen to know more. I did further reading on you and found that you are fun loving, a good writer and an active user of Twitter. I got anxious about posting tweets, as you expected them to be original and funny. The trust you placed on me by asking to post for an account with a large number of followers made me nervous and happy at the same time. It was a joy to work with you."Slightly heartbroken by Krupa's response, I issued my final task – making her buy herself a gift on my behalf. I suggested flowers, but she told me she'd prefer a book.In total, my week of outsourcing cost me hundreds of pounds and saved me barely any time at all. My email inbox is now cluttered with correspondence from my various assistants. I'm less relaxed than ever. And, as you've probably figured out, the whole experience turned me into a legitimately horrible boyfriend.I've learned that there's an honesty and purity in doing your own work, and it far outweighs the benefits of delegation. Stuff just works better if I do everything myself. Apart from cutting my own hair, obviously. Honestly, you should see the state of it.Gary Shteyngart: 'I like to look at videos of long-haired dachshunds''Some people watch stock prices or pornography. I like to look at videos and images of long-haired dachshunds at work and play.' Photograph: Getty ImagesWhile it has destroyed literature, the intertube is helpful for people who enjoy long-haired dachshunds. I don't write very much these days; most of what I do has been outsourced to India. My last book, a&nbsp;"memoir" calledLittle Failure, reads like the childhood of a boy in Russia but look at page 273: "It&nbsp;was a cold Leningrad morning. My mother had picked out her best&nbsp;sari and the maid was making rice and dhal." This slipped through, but mostly you couldn't tell that a guy in Bangalore wrote it. This leaves me with tons of time with nothing to do. Some people watch stock prices or pornography. I like to look at videos and images of&nbsp;long-haired dachshunds at work&nbsp;and play.In New York, nobody can afford an entire dog so people co-op a dog. You know, a Russian oligarch owns 40% of it,  I have 30% and someone else has 30%. But the oligarch never comes to New York because he's too busy destroying Ukraine.I've outsourced the books and I've outsourced Twitter and Facebook to my dachshunds. Once, I posted a beautiful picture of Felix (my dachshund) and a woman wrote, in Russian, that all the sadness of the Jewish people was captured in his eyes. Isn't that beautiful? It sounds even better in Russian.Felix is a kind of avatar for me; he is completely covered in fur, he is short and has incredible back problems, as do many dachshunds.I can't write accomplished books,&nbsp;so Twitter, Facebook and&nbsp;dachshund representation is  what I have. I'm 87% digital content, a content&nbsp;provider.  Or someone in Bangalore does it under my name.Sophie Heawood: 'I'm addicted to property websites''Sometimes I stay up till 3am moving to the Hollywood Hills. Or Mexico City. Or a small Hebridean farming community where I was going to live like Linda McCartney and breed goats.' Illustration: Ben Lamb for the GuardianThere are many routes to spiritual enlightenment, but spending every night in your own home peering through the windows of other people's, getting irked when there are no pictures of the side  – well, it's probably not one of them. But I can't stop myself; I am addicted to property websites.The gateway drug is Rightmove, which lists houses for sale in the UK. Then there is Dwell, Freunde von Freunden, The Selby and Take Sunset, which are a bit more lifestyle, taking you into beautiful strangers' homes around the world. Sometimes I stay up till 3am moving to the Hollywood Hills. Or Mexico City. Or a small Hebridean farming community where I was going to live like Linda McCartney and breed goats. It is a good idea to live in the moment, but I largely live in someone else's moments. In someone else's house. It has gone so far that I have set up a Twitter account, @propertyjazz, just to deposit some of the treasures I find.Only five minutes, I tell myself, as I settle down to a search of Hampstead town houses in case one of these multimillion-pound properties has accidentally come on sale at around the £230,000 mark. I mean, you never know. Of course, the most attractive thing is seeing what you could get somewhere else for the same price. A rundown French chateau with chickens jumping into the pool for the same price as a three-bedroom flat in Walthamstow! A farmhouse in Estonia for the same price as a flight to the farmhouse in Estonia. A&nbsp;private island in Greece for the same price as a flat in Manhattan. You start planning how you could live in the flat in Manhattan and commute to the private island every second weekend.As soon as a friend gives me their address, I'm on Google Street View, walking down their street, seeing where they live. (I can't believe I am writing this down.) Nor is this only an online problem: as a journalist who sometimes goes round to famous people's homes and interviews them, I often find myself trying to interview the house.This week I went to a classical conductor's flat to interview her about orchestras and found myself on my knees in her hallway, tugging at the lino to work out if there were floorboards underneath.She didn't seem to mind, having already politely fielded my questions about her tracker mortgage. As soon as I left I was on my Zoopla app, looking for properties for sale in the area.While all of this is going on, my own lovely, wonky, 1970s house is in chaos, untended as I dream of elsewhere. The truth is that I&nbsp;am lucky to have it at all. There is a&nbsp;housing crisis. The whole thing is nuts. But it doesn't stop me fantasising about what I would do if I could pull down that clumpy conservatory those idiots have tacked on to my lovely Georgian drawing room. I mean theirs. Their lovely Georgian drawing room.
World Cup 2014kicks off in Brazil next Thursday with quite a few of the games during working hours or evening, which means trying not to see the scores or results before you get home could be less than easy.Spoilers are going to be everywhere, which is why Australian television provider Fetch TV has developed an extension for bothGoogle’s Chromeand Firefox (coming soon) browsers that scans sites and blocks all mention of teams, scores and football terms to avoid accidentally finding out the results.Spoiler Spoiler extension.The free Spoiler Spoiler extension blanks out with your choice of nations&apos; colours any text that could give away the result – across Facebook, Twitter, news sites and sports sites – so that you can enjoy the recorded games when you get home. The extension has to have access to all the data on a website as you browse to do its thing, so turning it off when trying to access internet banking might be wise.The extension swaps any mention of World Cup-related terms with the flag colours of your chosen country. Just watch out for images.Football fans will have to avoid mentions on smartphones and tablets, plus images on websites, because the extension only works for text on computers, but at least Spoiler Spoiler gives you a sporting chance of getting home without running the game.•Fifa World Cup Brazil - the greatest show on virtual turf?•Mind-controlled robotic suit to debut at World Cup 2014 as paraplegic Brazillian will take the first kick
When consumers have been promised powerful, life-changing new software, delays and postponed launches can be excruciating.Mac OS X was firstdemonstrated under the code-name Rhapsody in 1997, yet version 1 release didn&apos;t arrive until a full four years later. Windows Vista was originally planned to ship in 2003, as a minor release between Windows XP and the true follow-up, but that release date slipped by three years.However, both of those pale in comparison to &quot;Project Xanadu&quot;, which was released without fanfare at an event at California&apos;s Chapman University in late April. Development on Xanadu began54 years ago, in 1960, making it the most delayed software in history.Xanadu&apos;s developer Ted Nelson is the man who coined the term &quot;hypertext&quot; to describe the clickable links that were created for his project: the word lives on most prominently as the &quot;ht&quot; in the internet abbreviation &quot;http&quot;.At its simplest, Xanadu lets users build documents that seamlessly embed the sources which they are linking back to, creating,in Nelson&apos;s words, &quot;an entire form of literature where links do not break as versions change; where documents may be closely compared side by side and closely annotated; where it is possible to see the origins of every quotation; and in which there is a valid copyright system - a literary, legal and business arrangement - for frictionless, non-negotiated quotation at any time and in any amount.&quot;The version released on the internet, named OpenXanadu, isa simple documentcreated using quoted sections from eight other works, including the King James Bible and the Wikipedia page on Steady State Theory. Users navigate with the spacebar and arrow keys –the directionswarn users &quot;don&apos;t touch the mouse!&quot; - and can skip between the original works and the finished document.Superficially, it resembles the web itself, and that&apos;s no coincidence. At one point, Xanadu had potential to beat Tim Berners Lee to the invention of the world wide web. But the project carried on slipping, and the web got there first.&quot;The web trivialized this original Xanadu model,&quot; Nelson argued in 2004, &quot;vastly but incorrectly simplifying these problems to a world of fragile ever-breaking one-way links, with no recognition of change or copyright, and no support for multiple versions or principled re-use.&quot;Having missed the chance to be the web,Nelson now sees Xanadu as a potential replacementfor formats that spend too much time trying to be like paper, and not enough time trying to be something new for the digital age.&quot;We screwed up in the 1980s, and missed our chance to be world wide hypertext (the web got that niche). However, we can still compete with PDF, which simulates paper, by showing text connections.&quot;In 1995 - with the project already 35 years in development -Wired&apos;s Gary Wolf profiled Nelson, painting a portrait of a man whose execution never caught up with his ideas. But those ideas themselves went on to become hugely influential.&quot;Out of Nelson&apos;s discombobulation was born one of the most powerful designs of the 20th century,&quot; Wolf wrote. &quot;And Xanadu&apos;s goals - a universal library, a global information index, and a computerised royalty system - were shared by many of the smartest programmers of the first hacker generation&quot;.•An online Magna Carta: Berners-Lee calls for bill of rights for web
Ubisoft/PC, PS4 (version played), PS3, Xbox One, Xbox 360/£40/ 18+Watch Dogs is a very easy target. It lumbers into view as the biggest and most heavily promoted Triple A title in a release window where its only rivals for attention are the new Wolfenstein game and maybe Murdered: Soul Suspect. No, Mario Kart 8 isn’t in competition here. Everyone with any sense is buying Mario Kart 8 anyway.It’s not just the timing of its release that presents problems. Watch Dogs arrives creaking under the weight of two years&apos; of hype. It was the belle of the E3 2012 ball. It was the first glimpse of next generation tech a year before either Sony or Microsoft had announced their new consoles. It was prescient, presenting a world where the electron and the switch had evolved to gift a backdoor to prying eyes and exploiters. Where the high-end gadgets we’ve all come to rely on have become liabilities and weapons.But now that Watch Dogs has arrived, some of its sheen has been stripped away. The knives initially came out when a trailer released back in March showed the game’s graphics had been downgraded. The last couple of weeks of reviews haven’t helped. While many critics have been complimentary, there is the lingering sense that a game as hyped as Watch Dogs should blow minds with the same force as Darryl Revok in Scanners – and it simply hasn’t. There have even been accusations that its content is racist, sexist and misogynist.Perhaps it’s an indication that we expect more from developers on this generation of hardware. Critical views have hardened. Aspects that were largely skirted over in reviews of games like Far Cry 3, Batman: Arkham City and Grand Theft Auto 5 may be in for shorter shrift as the gaming audience matures. About time too.Lead character as dead-eyed sociopathI confess, though, that my experience with Watch Dogs didn’t send me into fits of indignation. In open-world games I’m used to developers painting with broad strokes when it comes to narrative and characters. It’s what made keeping company with Trevor Philips in GTA 5 just about bearable. Aiden Pearce, the all-powerful hacker at the centre of Watch Dogs, isn’t as hateful as Trevor, but he’s initially rather bland - apart from his voice, which is a throat-shredding growl.Over time, though it becomes quite clear that Pearce is a dead-eyed sociopath. He is out to avenge the murder of his niece and he pursues this goal with a commitment that is as disturbing as it is blinkered. It’s not just the trail of corpses he leaves behind him that makes him hard to identify with; at one point his sister – the mother of the child he’s seeking revenge for – begs him to let his quest go and to move on. He refuses and as a result, he throws her and her one surviving child into the firing line. Pearce is driven to such a degree that when the player runs over the odd civilian by mistake it doesn’t seem like behavior that would be out of place for the character.The story that drives the action in Watch Dogs isn’t exactly groundbreaking, hitting the familiar beats – revenge, death, kidnapping - but it’s covered in quite a substantial amount of grit. The one aspect that saves it is that it eventually sets out the notion that the single-minded pursuit of something – especially something that involves criminal activities – has a rather heavy cost attached to it. Without going into spoiler territory, the denouement in Watch Dogs isn’t what you’d call a happy ending, and this seems fitting; after the misery, pain and violence Pearce has visited on both his enemies and loved ones, he doesn’t get to ride off into the sunset like so many other open-world protagonists.On the way to his date with retribution, Pearce will hack, drive and shoot his way across the city of Chicago in a fashion that’ll also strike players as familiar. The feature that bestows Watch Dogs a sense of uniqueness is Pearce’s magical phone, which allows him to wreak chaos using the city’s operating system. Once players plough enough experience points in Pearce’s talent trees, they’ll be able to use his smartphone to steal cars, scramble traffic lights, raise bridges, deploy bollards and even send the odd manhole cover shooting up into the sky.They’ll be able to help themselves to the details of the smartphones of the NPCs in his environment, reading text messages, listening in on phone calls and ripping bank account details – that last aspect comes in handy when the player’s low on funds and needs to buy some hardware. The smartphone also gives them a window into the personal details of the people around Pearce. Initially this feels like a nice touch, positing the player with the odd moral conundrum – do you rip off a woman who is down to her last farthing and clinically depressed? – but eventually it blurs into background noise.Hacking and sneakingBefore the player is able to unleash the full capabilities of Pearce’s phone, they need to hack the local ctOS hub. There’s an open-ended quality to these encounters; players can charge in guns blazing, or they can opt to sneak in and out without using any bullets. In some instances, they’re able to dot through these facilities simply using the CCTV network. Once the hub’s hacked, new players will see the local ctOS towers in the area. Once those are hacked quests and missions open up on the map.These range from missions that result in their own mini-narratives, to fetch quests, to criminal take downs, to augmented reality games. There’s also the opportunity to invade another player’s game and engage in a rather gripping game of cat-and-mouse where one hacks the other’s phone and tries to make off without getting killed. We were concerned this would fall apart on public servers, but aside from the reported troubles on the PC version, it holds up well and offers something very interesting and possibly indictative of where seamless interconnectivity is going.There’s a wealth of activity for players to sink into in Watch Dogs, some of it innovative, some of it not. What there isn’t, sadly, is any overall comment on the real-world technological panopticon that Pearce uses to smite all and sundry. You could argue that it isn’t the job of developers to illuminate and educate when all they want to do is entertain. But given how forward-thinking Watch Dogs appeared to be when it first showed up on the radar, the fact that its most compelling hook is simply a useful tool is more than slightly disappointing.That said, Watch Dogs is solidly entertaining and a lot of fun to play. And while it could’ve achieved true greatness if it had followed through on its most ambitious promises, it is still better than a lot of what’s been released this year. The hype seems already to be benefiting the sales figures. Everything about Watch Dogs tells us that we are all susceptible in the digital age.•Watch Dogs review round-up – can it live up to expectations?•Watch Dogs is a wake-up call on internet security•Watch Dogs – freedom and morality in open-world games
Terrible educational board games are a blight on us all. Everyone&apos;s played them: invariably, the game itself is little more than a reskinned snakes-and-ladders, but rather than climbing ladders, informative captions combine learning with fun. In theory.&quot;Witches have prophesied that no man of woman born can kill you! Move forward three spaces.&quot;&quot;Archduke Franz Ferdinand has been assassinated in Sarajevo by Gavrilo Princip. Move backwards five squares.&quot;&quot;You&apos;ve arrived in the uterus, but there&apos;s no egg to fertilise. Skip a turn.&quot;It&apos;s not hard to pin down why the games are so unfulfilling. For one, they&apos;re basically pure chance, to the extent that even an eight-year-old on a rainy Thursday afternoon can tell that nothing they do has any effect on the outcome. For another, the actual game has little to do with what it&apos;s professing to teach: you&apos;re all just rolling dice.But sometimes, people go the extra mile, and it makes all the difference.Class Struggle is a faintly ridiculous educational board game, created by the New York University politics professor Bertell Ollman in 1978. Its aim, according to the basic rulesavailable on Ollman&apos;s site, is to teach students &quot;aged 8 to 80&quot; about Marxism. &quot;The object of the game is to win the revolution… &quot;&quot;Until then, classes – represented by different players – advance around the board, making and breaking alliances, and picking up strengths and weaknesses that determine the outcome of the elections and general strikes which occur along the way.&quot;The game is still not exactly fun, but it approaches its goal with such charm that it&apos;s hard not to be won over. Take the chance cards – a different deck for the workers and capitalists, representing random events in the game.&quot;You have just been laid off from work,&quot; reads one worker card. &quot;If you blame yourself, or foreign competition, or the Blacks, or Jews, move two spaces back. If you blame the capitalists, move two spaces ahead.&quot;&quot;You are caught feeling sorry for the workers,&quot; says a capitalist card. &quot;Victory in class struggle comes to people who think about their own class. Miss two turns at the dice.&quot;Impressively, even the rules of the game serve to underscore the message it&apos;s trying to send. Take how the players decide who is to play as the capitalist:&quot;Individual players cannot choose their class,&quot; the rules state. &quot;In real life, this is usually determined by the kind of family into which one is born. In &quot;Class Struggle&quot; too it is chance that decides. Throw the genetic (or luck-of-birth) die, the one with the symbols on it, to see who plays what class.&quot;In the full rules (the game includes a &quot;basic&quot; and &quot;full&quot; rule book, as well as a booklet designed to expand on the lessons imparted within), the order that the players roll the luck of birth die is determined by their social privilege. The whiter, straighter and more male you are, the more chances you get to become the capitalist. Just like in real life!In its own way, Class Struggle makes a good case for the advantages of using games, not just to teach, but also to persuade. Playing a game involves playing inside a rule-set devised by someone else. If those rules mimic the real world, they can embed simplifications which would never pass muster when laid out in a more straightforward manner.Take Class Struggle&apos;s rule that only the capitalists can trigger nuclear war, never the workers or, in a subtler fashion, Sim City&apos;s modelling of crime (poverty makes crime, and police stop it).The fans the game has won -which include libertarian economics blog Marginal Revolution- are drawn to it by the the charm and sensibility of a slightly eccentric professor from the 1970s. However gently persuasive its message and skillfully crafted its game dynamics, it seems unlikely to have won many people round to the cause of revolutionary marxism.•World of Darkness - the inside story on the death of a game
Digital deadly sins
I’ve spunked a heck of a lot of time on video games in the past few years. However, before I started researching the column affectionately titled &quot;S.EXE&quot; at RockPaperShotgun I had never thought: &quot;This game is a bit erotic.&quot;Games are not really known for their ability to articulate anything with less than the rhetorical power of a brick through a dollhouse, never mind being able to convey eroticism, innuendo or subtext.And yet here I am, a few months down the line, and I’ve learned quite a lot about how human bodies might relate to each other, just from writing about how sex and relationships are approached through the humble medium of the &quot;video&quot; &quot;game&quot;. They can convey subtext and eroticism and gender politics and attachment just as well as almost anything else.Fingle, for example, is a surprisingly intimate iPad game where you rhythmically rub your fingers against another person’s to complete fingertip obstacle courses. In Japanese &quot;otome&quot; dating games you get to know your suitor intimately before they will even let you kiss or &quot;win&quot; them, illuminating many interesting things about Japanese culture.Recently I interviewed the game designers Auriea Harvey and Michaël Samyn, who met and cybersexed via an online art commune in the early 90s. They began making sexy digital art together. They recently released the award-winning Luxuria Superbia on PC and iPad, which is an abstract game you touch in different ways until it explodes with colour and movement. It’s not a subtle metaphor, but it’s executed with taste and sensitivity, a nod and a wink. It transmits the idea that sex might in fact be communication, about a multitude of touches, sensations and responses rather than &quot;bash A to win&quot;.Nina Freeman recently made a free autobiographical game called How Do You Do It, which is about her girlhood puzzlement at the sex scene in Titanic. A little girl has just come back from seeing the film, and when her mother leaves she picks up a Barbie and Ken doll with the intent of figuring out what the body parts were doing in that fateful car. You have a little time to manipulate and bash the dolls together before your mother comes back in the room. The game scores you thus: &quot;You might have done sex 92 times!&quot; It’s an unusually charming game that illuminates how much the media around us influences our bodily curiosity.Some bombastic mainstream games do try to approach relationship dynamics, if not in a particularly subtle way, certainly in a way that tells us about ourselves. OutRun 2006, an arcade classic and a favourite of racing game enthusiasts is primarily about a male driver impressing the girl who sits in the passenger seat of his brand new Ferrari.Outrun 2006: a game about drift corners and threatened male sexualityThe subtext of the game is that the driver’s masculinity is on the line: if you don’t make the drifts and corners that she demands, the threat is that she will dump you. The emasculation metaphor is taken even further in the case of dialogue: sometimes the girlfriend will yell “How far are you gonna take me?” in the manner of someone who expects a man with stamina and a firm grasp of curves. It’s about the heterosexual male fear of the premature finish line: the woman won’t stay for anything less than a good time.Recently I’ve coveredStriptease, a puzzle game by Stephen Lavelle that addresses how we look at women, objectification, and issues of sexual assault, by using puzzle mechanics to direct our attention to body parts. I also interviewed Merritt Kopas, maker of Consensual Torture Simulator, a text game that examines how consensual pain can affect people emotionally and sexually. Merritt often speaks at conferences about the intersection of games and sexuality.I’ve even had a shot at making a game about sex myself: I scripted a text game calledSacrilegethat simulates what it is like to be a young 20-something woman in a club who wants to take guys home. Young male players emailed me afterwards about their surprise that women have any sort of libido at all. Baby steps, you see. Baby steps.•Video games to get you through Valentine&apos;s Day•Sex and games – why haven&apos;t they got it on?
More critical weaknesses have been uncovered in the OpenSSL web encryption standard, just two months after the disclosure of the notorious Heartbleed vulnerability affecting the same technology.Tatsuya Hayashi,the researcher who found one of the critical bugs, told the Guardian that the latest flaw &quot;may be more dangerous than Heartbleed&quot; as it could be used to directly spy on people&apos;s communications.Heartbleed was deemed to be one of the most critical internet vulnerabilities ever when it was uncovered in April. OpenSSL is supposed to protect people’s data with digital keys but has been exposed as flawed numerous times in recent months.The latest vulnerability was introduced in 1998 and has been missed by both paid and volunteer developers working on the open-source project for 16 years.Meanwhile, one of the other severe vulnerabilities in OpenSSL detailed this week was introduced by the same man responsible for the Heartbleed flaw, researchers said.Using the vulnerability found by Hayashi, attackers sitting on the same network as a target, such as on the same public Wi-Fi network, could force weak encryption keys on connections between victims’ PCs and web servers.With knowledge of those keys, the attacker could intercept data. They could even change the data being sent between the user and the website to trick the victim into handing over more sensitive information, such as usernames and passwords. This is known as a &quot;man-in-the-middle&quot; attack.“Under the public Wi-Fi network situations, attackers can very easily eavesdrop and make falsifications on encrypted communications,” Hayashi added. “Victims cannot detect any trace of the attacks.”The vulnerability affects all PC and mobile software using OpenSSL prior to the latest version, believed to include the Chrome browser on Android phones, and servers running OpenSSL 1.0.1 and the beta version for 1.0.2.Many website owners will be running OpenSSL 1.0.1 as it fixed the Heartbleed vulnerability. Fixes have been issued by the team managing OpenSSL, which encrypts people’s internet traffic going to and from millions of web services around the world.Internet users running vulnerable versions have been urged to install the patches, as detailed on theOpenSSL advisory, which included fixes for range of other flaws.One of those other vulnerabilities, which could have allowed an attacker to send malicious code to affected machines running OpenSSL and therefore have them leak data, was introduced by the same developer as Heartbleed, Robin Seggelmann, four years ago, according to anHP blog post.The job of fixing the bug found by Hayashi is likely to be far bigger than Heartbleed, warned Nick Percoco, vice presidentof strategic servicesfrom security firm Rapid7.“From a remediation standpoint it is actually worse for organisations running OpenSSL on the server side. Heartbleed only affected versions back about two years,&quot; he said.&quot;This issue goes back to the first release of OpenSSL in 1998. That means there were likely many people running version that were not affected by Heartbleed that didn’t patch last time.&quot;Many popular browsers appear to be safe from attack, however, noted Google security engineer Adam Langley, in anotherblog post. “Non-OpenSSL clients (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome on Desktop and iOS, Safari, etc) aren&apos;t affected. None the less, all OpenSSL users should be updating,” he said.Prof Alan Woodward, security expert from the department of computing at the University of Surrey, said he wasn’t sure the bug was as bad as Heartbleed due to its constraints - for example, both the server and the client must be vulnerable at the time of the attack. But the flaw has been left open for so long and affects so many servers that it showed OpenSSL was heading towards its death as a reliable form of protection, he said.“It’s been there all along since OpenSSL first launched and no one has found it before, which tells you something about how thoroughly these open-source tools are checked,” Woodward told the Guardian.“It does seem like another nail in the coffin for OpenSSL. It may not be dead but this must be another blow to people’s confidence.”•Heartbleed bug: what do you need to do to stay secure?
Phishing as a concept – scammy electronic communications trying to steal personal data and passwords – has been around for nearly 20 years, but people still regularly fall victim to it.In June 2013, security firm Kaspersky Lab estimated that37.3m people had encountered phishing attacksin the last year, includingmore than 1m people in the UK alone. Symantec, meanwhile, estimates thatphishing accounted for one in 392 emails per day in 2013.Phishing is all about convincing you to divulge information that could help criminals steal your money and/or install malware on your computer, potentially also selling your passwords on to others.It works by impersonating communications from companies that you trust: banks, online payment firms like PayPal, social networks, online retailers and other technology companies, as well as government bodies (tax authorities, for example). According to Symantec, 71% of phishing attacks in 2013 were related to financial organisations.A lot of phishing attacks are fended off without you ever seeing them, thanks to the spam filters used by companies and webmail providers. But for those that make it through to your inbox, there are some common-sense tips to ensure you don&apos;t fall victim.If it looks wrong, it probably is wrongPhishing often looks, well, fishy. Typos can be a sign that an email is dodgy – yes, The Guardian may be on thin ice with this point, but typos in an email from your bank really are a red flag – as are all-capitals in the email&apos;s subject and a few too many exclamation marks.Check the email address carefullyIf you often get emails from a particular company, they&apos;ll usually come from the same address – for example, the vast majority of my PayPal emails come from service@paypal.co.uk. Another address, especially one that looks strange, should raise suspicions.Watch for impersonal introductionsYour bank, PayPal, Amazon etc know your name. A phisher sending out masses of emails doesn&apos;t. That&apos;s why real emails from these companies often address you by name. &quot;Dear Customer&quot; or variations on it may sound polite, but it&apos;s a definite warning sign, especially if the email is trying to get personal details from you.Beware of threats and urgent deadlinesSometimes a reputable company does need you to do something urgently – eBay was recently forced to ask its customers to change their passwords quickly after a cyberattack, for example. But usually, threats and urgency are a sign of phishing: if you&apos;re being asked to do something to prevent your account being shut down, or within a tight deadline, its cause for caution.Don&apos;t fill in embedded formsIf an email comes with an embedded form for you to fill in personal details, financial data and/or login details, don&apos;t do it. Trustworthy companies will never ask you to do this in an email.Be cautious about phone numbers and web linksIf an email asks you to call a number to give your personal details over the phone, dig out some official correspondence from the company and use the number given there instead. And if you&apos;re asked to click on a link that looks legitimate, hover your mouse over it to see if you&apos;re actually being sent to a different site – don&apos;t click on it if so.Beware of spear phishingThe advice above is for traditional email-based phishing attacks, which target a large number of people and hope that a few will fall victim. But in recent years, a new variant has emerged called spear phishing, which is much more personal.Spear phishing targets individuals: instead of &quot;Dear Customer&quot; an email might address you by name, refer to a recent transaction you&apos;ve made and/or draw on other information that you&apos;ve shared online – often on social networks.Spear phishers may even impersonate one of your friends, asking for a password which – if you share it – can then be tested on a range of other sites to see if the criminal can gain access to your accounts.Most advice on avoiding spear phishing involves urging you to be more careful on social networks: the kind of &quot;could this information be useful to a cyber criminal&quot; caution that may not come naturally when tapping out a tweet or Facebook status update.Even so, it&apos;s important – for plenty of reasons beyond spear phishing – to be familiar with privacy controls on sites like Facebook, so you know when something is being published to your friends only rather than the wider world.It&apos;s also important – even though it may seem onerous – to use different passwords for the various retailers, financial services and social networks that you use regularly. Spear phishers thrive on the kind of password laziness that comes naturally to many internet users.As for spear phishing that seems to come from a friend or known work contact, the same rules apply as for phone numbers in regular phishing emails. If someone you trust seems to be asking for a password, ring them up and ask if it&apos;s really them.Don&apos;t think phishing is just about emailPhishing may be closely identified with email, but that&apos;s not the only way phishing attacks happen. In fact, that Kaspersky report in June 2013 claimed that only 12% of registered phishing attacks were launched through spam emails.The rest came from fake websites, instant messaging software and other channels. Whatever you&apos;re doing on a computing device, be alert when seemingly-trustworthy companies or contacts are trying to get you to divulge any data that could compromise your online security.•10 talking points about cybersecurity and your business
It may be the 70th anniversary of the largest seaborne invasion in history but, in its UK doodle on 6 June, Google chose to celebrate the 185th birthday of a Japanese man whose prominence is rather less established – at least in the west.Honinbo Shusaku, born in 1829, is considered to have been one of the greatest exponents of the game of Go, which originated in China and is played in Japan and other countries.His prowess earned him the nickname "the Invincible" as he gained perfect scores in 19 straight wins in the Castle games – an important event.French news magazine Le Point reported that Shusaku was one of only three people to have ever held the title Kisei, meaning Saint of Go.The doodle on Google's home page appeared in Britain, Colombia, Germany, Greece, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia and Ukraine.Some may have expected Google to mark the anniversary of the beginning of the Allies' invasion of Nazi-held Europe. But, in 2010, the company said it tried to stick to lighthearted events.The company said: "We try to be sensitive that a doodle is sometimes not the most appropriate way to recognise certain events, especially those that are more sombre in nature."But in cases where there are events that are important and meaningful for our users, and that a doodle may not necessarily be a good fit for, we recognise such events through a commemorative graphic on our homepage."
I can&apos;t remember life without Tetris. Those tetrominos have beeninvading my dreamssince early childhood - falling, falling, forever falling.The game turns 30 years old today, and with it comes the realisation that it&apos;s been there for me for almost my entire conscious life.When Nintendo, in their infinite wisdom, introduced multiplayer Tetrisvia their Game Boy and high-tech link cable technology, I was able to share my addiction with friends via the medium of emotionally demanding block combat. Nothing is more pleasing to a young mind than cluttering your opponent&apos;s screen with unruly blocks: creation leading to chaos and victory. It remains one of the most satisfying multi-player games ever made.I&apos;ve never bought anyTetris-related pop singles, won aTetris world championshiporwritten any Tetris fan-fiction. But it&apos;s always been there, as sure as background radiation.Aged 11, I was hit by a car during a school trip to France. The rumour that immediately did the rounds was I had walked into the road, backwards, while playing Tetris on my Gameboy. Entirely untrue - apart from the bit about being hit by the car - but entirely plausible.Last winter, I travelled with a friend to Mount Kōya in Japan, to stay with some young monks in their remote monastery, to learn about Shingon Buddhism. We went to bed early in our traditional Japanese room, as there was nothing else to do. All was peace and tranquility.We ended up playing Tetris.Do you have any Tetris-related stories or memories of your own? Or was life something that happened while you were playing Tetris?Share your tales in the comments, and we&apos;ll post the best above the line.Here are our favourites so far:MartyMcFlytipper06 June 2014 7:39amThis comment has been chosen by Guardian staff because it contributes to the debateNelson Mandela was released while I was.playing Tetris.True story.SharpMango06 June 2014 9:14amThis comment has been chosen by Guardian staff because it contributes to the debateFirst time I ever played tetris, I was 9 or 10. There were a series of gameboys setup inside a department store.. so of course, being attracted to what is shiny and technological I went straight onto one and started playing away. For some reason, I kept on winning within 2 minutes every time. I thought I was a Tetris God.Then a pretty sales assistant came and started playing on the gameboy next to me. I found this unfathomable, for why would agirlstand next to me?And then things started gettingweirder.. she laughed as I won, joked as I lost and for the life of me.. I just couldn't figure out how her laughs were perfectly calibrated with what was happening on my screen if she was playing on another gameboy?I decided to slowly back off because it made no sense a pretty girl would not only stand next to me, but also laugh playfully with me without looking at my screen...It was only much afterwards I figured out I'd been playing multi-player tetris and that girl was probably just having some fun trying to get me to buy a gameboy. God knows what she must have thought by my freaked out face.RivaldoRules06 June 2014 10:03amLines or score? That's the only question you need to answer.I was a score man, and got about 800,000 if memory serves. That was something like 240 lines - level 20 was a beast and too quick to score heavily.Tetris boasting. The 86th worst kind of boasting.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNook + Samsung &gt;&gt; SuperSite for WindowsFor a while there it looked like Microsoft would either purchased Barnes &amp; Noble's struggling Nook e-book reader business or partner with the firm to create Windows-based Nooks. But today, Barnes &amp; Noble upended those possibilities in announcing a partnership with Samsung in which the consumer electronics giant will make future Nook tablets.Some may see this as a blow to Microsoft and/or Windows. But I see this as bullet dodged: Let's face it, the last thing Microsoft needed was another money-losing hardware product line.Certainly, for Barnes &amp; Noble, this is a nice out, too, since it really couldn't afford to invest in the hardware lineup.OpenSSL DTLS Fragment O vulnerability &gt;&gt; HP Enterprise Business CommunityPost-Heartbleed,, OpenSSL turns out to have another vulnerability, explains Brian Gorenc: .So, why is this vulnerability interesting beyond just the technical aspects?According to the commit logs, Robin Seggelmann introduced this vulnerability into the OpenSSL code base four years ago. Yes, Robin Seggelmann is also responsible for introducing the Heartbleed vulnerability.  Two big vulnerabilities introduced by the same developer. Seggelmann is not completely to blame, of course. OpenSSL is an open source project. The 'many eyes' that look at this code failed to catch this bug, but a new breed of individuals are looking at this code…especially at Seggelmann's code.  This code is now known for having vulnerabilities. There is blood in the water.Reform government surveillance: an open letter to the US SenateDear Members of the Senate:It's been a year since the first headlines alleging the extent of government surveillance on the Internet.We understand that governments have a duty to protect their citizens. But the balance in many countries has tipped too far in favor of the state and away from the rights of the individual. This undermines the freedoms we all cherish, and it must change.A letter signed by the chief executives of AOL, Apple. Dropbox. Facebook, Google, LinkedIn, Microsoft, Twitter and Yahoo.ESET analyzes Simplocker Android malware &gt;&gt; Eset blogEncrypts files on the SD card (if there is one) and demands a ransom:Android/Simplocker.A will scan the SD card for files with any of the following image, document or video extensions: jpeg, jpg, png, bmp, gif, pdf, doc, docx, txt, avi, mkv, 3gp, mp4 and encrypt them using AES.Android/Simplocker.A will also contact its Command &amp; Control server and send identifiable information from the device (like IMEI, et cetera). Interestingly, the C&amp;C server is hosted on a TOR .onion domain for purposes of protection and anonymity.As you may notice on the nag-screen above, there is no input field for a payment-confirming code of any kind, as we've seen in earlier examples of Windows ransomware. Instead, the malware listens to its C&amp;C server for a command – probably issued after payment is received – to decrypt the files.The sample we've analyzed is in the form of an application called 'Sex xionix'. It was not found on the official Google Play store and we estimate that its prevalence is very low at this time.Founded by army veteran, Tankchair makes all-terrain wheelchairs &gt;&gt; Businessweek[Brad] Soden is the inventor of the Tankchair, which is a wheelchair in the same sense that an aircraft carrier is a boat. His fearsome-looking machine can traverse rugged hillsides, sandy beaches, snowy embankments, and, with a top speed approaching 30 miles per hour, keep up with traffic on a typical city street. Its brain is built by a company that designs Apache helicopter control systems, so the chair can elevate to a standing position or fully recline to aid blood flow. Some versions have gun mounts and fishing reels. Some have roll bars. A few glow in the dark. One chair Soden built for a paralyzed Phoenix police officer has a "vomit light" to neutralize suspects—a pulsing LED so powerfully incapacitating that it induces nausea. If Michael Bay had devoted himself to making medical equipment instead of action movies, this is what he would have built.Can't decide if that's a good or bad thought. But the story is inspiring.Tegra K1-powered Project Tango devkit opens door to new worlds enabled by computer vision &gt;&gt; Nvidia blogThat's Google's Project Tango:Game developers could, for example, use it to paint a 3D virtual battlefield in your living room. Or create large scale virtual and augmented reality experiences. Real estate companies could build interactive, 360-degree "fly-through" tours. Interior designers could scan a client's home and test design ideas, such as moving walls or inserting furniture. Retailers can guide the user to specific places or products.All these applications are a perfect match forgeneral purpose GPU computing, which takes the parallel architecture of GPUs and puts it to work solving some of the world's toughest problems. And because our Kepler GPU architecture is already used in PCs, workstations, and supercomputers, the tools needed to put Tegra K1 to work are already here.Priced at just over $1,000.Digesting WWDC: cloudy &gt;&gt; Benedict Evansthere's a deeper and older dynamic starting to come into play now. Apple invented the smartphone as we know it 7 years ago and since then the concept has been built out. All the stuff that really should have been there has been added step by step by both Apple and Google, and the pace at which essential improvements are made is starting to flatten out. But as that happens, the two platforms start to converge. Copy &amp; paste is copy &amp; paste, but iBeacon is a very Apple sort of idea, just as Google Now is a very Google product. That is, as the core features are built out and commoditised, the changes are coming more and more in ways that reflect the very different characters of Apple and Google.This difference in approach is pulling in entirely different directions, though.What "winning" means for Apple &gt;&gt; Beyond DevicesJan Dawson:To suggest that Apple is trying to "win" in the messaging wars is equivalent to suggesting that iTunes was an attempt to "win" in the music-playing software wars. Neither is the case. The first thing to understand about Apple is that it's motivated first and foremost by creating the best possible experience on Apple devices. This imperative drove Steve Jobs to the extent that he made poor business decisions early on in his time at Apple, ultimately leading to his ouster. He was so fixated with this objective that he lost sight of others and ultimately of what it would take to keep Apple in business as a public company, a lesson he learned the hard way and ultimately brought back to Apple when he returned. But that has always been the fundamental motivation for Apple's senior leaders above all else.Also takes in the potential model for Amazon, if it does a smartphone. Educative.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
It seems like there isn’t a day that goes by without yet another report proclaiming big data as an absolute necessity for retailers and small-to-medium business (SMB) owners, but these claims risk ignoring both the existing challenges of the industry, as well as the bigger picture.In fact, some analysts go as far as to claim that big data is nothing short of a sham for most retailers and SMBs.In retail, big data generally refers to the use of sets of information from inside and outside a company that can then be analysed and used to improve profits. These data sets include everything a customer – or potential customer – puts into the internet about a particular brand or about how they consume, and all the information a company collects internally relating to sales patterns and customer relationships.A March report from theMcKinsey Quarterly, a report fromIBM and Planet Retailand a Bart Baesens’ 256-page epic onAnalytics in a Big Data Worldall claim that retailers and small-to-medium business owners need big data to be successful in the digital economy.However, Matt Young, founder and principal of Sydney-based consulting company Turning Leaf told Guardian Australia that SMBs were being sold a pup.“I work with businesses that are being tempted by people promising big data solutions,” he said. “For most SMBs, big data is a sham.”The challenge for retailers and small business owners isn’t big data, Young said, but how to manage lots of little data.“It is much better to stick to timeless basics than rely on some consultant and his ‘black box’ magic,” he said.Matt Peterson, founder of Shiny Things, a company that makes education apps for the iPhone and iPad, said he deliberately chose not to collect data on the 1.3 million customers that have downloaded his education apps since 2012.“The first reason is that it’s a big responsibility,” he said. “We are focused on the education market and we can’t afford to make a mistake with our customers’ data. These are kids we’re dealing with.“The second is that it requires big resources for collecting and securing data as well as gaining insight into it, that requires huge resources and very separate areas of expertise. We have 12 people in our office, so a big data program or project is not something we can afford today.”Peterson said it was easy for SMBs to get hooked on the idea that data tells them everything, “when really, if you’re talking to customers face-to-face as regularly as you can, that is probably enough to give you a successful product”.Peterson said that he had not seen big data being used effectively by SMBs.“There are so many signals you can be distracted by,” he said. “More often than not you’re getting the right answer to the wrong question”.“The truth is we just don’t know how to deal with information yet,” he said.Even Facebook, arguably the king of big data for marketing purposes, isn’t getting it right. Peterson said that the social network continued to deliver ads for wedding dresses to his wife even after she was married.If Facebook can’t get it right, the chances of retailers achieving success are pretty low, he said.“At the end of the day you could have invested a cool half million collecting all this data and realise it’s useless and now your business is going nowhere.”On the other hand, Milan Direct, an online furniture store, has seen a large improvement in sales thanks in part to its big data solutions.Dean Ramler, the company’s CEO and founder, said that big data enabled the company to make decisions based on facts, not on “gut feel” by looking at what people were searching for online using free tools, such as Google Trends.“A couple of years ago we saw a real peak in search patterns for timber outdoor furniture so we added a line of outdoor timber furniture to our line based on that hit from day one,” he said.Ramler wasn’t afraid to admit he used big data to see what other high-end brands were making so he couple replicate it and sell top quality replicas on the site.“We use a lot of internal data,” he said. “Our big data solutions allow us to hold as little stock as possible while fulfilling orders as they come through. So we’re not constantly number crunching. If a product doesn’t sell fast enough we ditch it.”However Ramler said that for most retailers and SMBs, big data was more of a threat than a solution.“I don’t think these big data solutions are relevant for all businesses,” he said. “It is especially irrelevant for small business.”Ramler said big data should be a solution a business grows into, rather than something it starts with.There&apos;s even scepticism at the larger end of the retail market. Coles corporate affairs spokeswoman Anna Kelly said that while big data could play a part in retailers&apos; decision-making, it was just one of many tools.Kelly wouldn’t be drawn on exactly how the supermarket uses big data, but said Coles’ Flybuys programme was an example of where big data comes into play.“Flybuys uses the information provided to operate the program to deliver rewards and offers, such as bonus points and My Weekly Specials,” she said.“No matter the scale of the business, it is important to understand your customer,” she said. “Big data may play a part, but it is one tool of many.Craig Reardon, from web-design company The E Team, said that the vast bulk of SMB operators didn’t know about big data.“All but the most tech-savvy SMB operators see developments like this as a threat rather than opportunity because of the time (cost) involved,” he said. “Time they just don’t have.”“You have to remember that this is a sector that – with a reported uptake of up to 50% – still hasn’t fully embraced ordinary websites, let alone big data.”Sponsored contentThis content has been sponsored by IBM, whose brand it displays. All content is editorially independent.
6.08pmBSTSo just before I end my live blog, Dan Page from Opposable Games has told me about a virtual reality developer meet-up he&apos;s organising. This is a meetingaboutvirtual reality, not one that&apos;s happeninginsidevirtual reality.&quot;The first everSouthWest Virtual Reality Meetupis scheduled for 29 July upstairs at The Big Chill Bar, 15 Small Street, Bristol,&quot; says Dan. &quot;We&apos;ll be giving folks the chance to ask questions and hear short talks from industry leaders, interact with exciting new hardware and socialise with fellow VR enthusiasts. Expect Oculus Rifts, Razer Hydras, Leap Motion controllers and maybe, just maybe, a DK2.&quot;4.47pmBSTKeith Stuart,@keefstuartis now trending in#Bristolhttp://t.co/8qOw9lVjzK&mdash; Trendsmap Bristol (@TrendsBristol)June 5, 20144.43pmBSTNarcoGuerra – Auroch's game about the Mexican drug warsHow to make a news game in five stepsAuroch Digital has made a series of news games, analysing real-world stories like Syria (Endgame: Syria) and the drugs war in Mexico (NarcoGuerra). Last month the studio was invited to speak at theNews Game Hackathon, a kind of current affairs game jam, organised by independent game studio, the Good Evil.The Guardianwas there, along with several other major news organisations, and there was a strong belief that games have an important and innovative role in the future of journalism.So how should you approach making a news game? Here&apos;s a five-step guide:Choose the right subject&quot;You need to choose a topic where you can deliver something that the linear media cannot or is not,&quot; says Rawlings. This may be a local story that you know a lot about and isn&apos;t getting coverage elsewhere, or a big story that you feel could be explored through a game.&quot;Most people producing news games right now are amateurs rather than journalists,&quot; says Rawlings. &quot;There was one produced recently around the situation in Ukraine, it was just an Angry Birds-style game where you&apos;re throwing things at various political figures. It was quite fun, more of a satirical cartoon than a news game, and there&apos;s nothing wrong with that.&quot;It&apos;s also important to bear development process in mind. If the story is going to pass in a couple of days, it&apos;s unlikely you&apos;ll be able to produce a game in time.Make the most of interactivity&quot;It&apos;s all about replayability,&quot; says Rawlings. &quot;Games can put you in the shoes of someone you&apos;re not. The idea behind Endgame: Syria was that there are lots of different competing factions, so the player can take one set of decisions, see the outcome, then take another.&quot;Choose the right platform&quot;If you want rapid dessiminaton, the web is still the best way,&quot; says Rawlings. Some form of Javascript or HTML 5 is the best bet at the moment. We&apos;ve developed smart phone apps, but the Apple App Store takes seven days. The Android store is better, you can pass something through in a couple of hours, but the web is immediate.&quot;&quot;The problem with HTML 5 is, it&apos;s a comparatively new protocol. There are packages likeGameMaker: Studiothat would allow you to make something comparatively quickly, but it&apos;s still very tech heavy. That&apos;s one of the issues.&quot;&quot;If you&apos;re not a developer, ideally you should find one to work with. Otherwise you need to re-engineer something that&apos;s already out there. Loads of people publish free Java Script tutorials - in fact, the game that the Guardian&apos;s writer made at the News Hackathon, took a Flappy Bird tutotrial from the web and re-engineered it as something else. News does that all the time – news takes popular catchphrases and uses them to make a catchy headline. Using popular tropes is a way to communicate with people.&quot;There&apos;s also the interactive story creator,Twine, but Rawlings wants to see the development of tools that can help journalists with no experience of coding to produce a news game within a couple of hours.Market it though social media and on game sites&quot;There&apos;s a still a novelty factor to news games,&quot; says Rawlings. &quot;If you wrote an essay aboutPrismon your blog, it&apos;s going to be hard to get traction unless you&apos;re saying something remarkable. But if you did a game about Prism, that&apos;s unusual.&quot;There are plenty of sites like Kongregate where you can post HTML objects, so you can explore those. Also, social media is very important. Even though we we couldn&apos;t distribute Endgame: Syria on the Apple App Store, we had a version on Facebook, we had an Android version, we had a free download version on sites like Indiecade. You need to distribute widely.&quot;Be prepared to defend your work&quot;When you make a news game you into into a whole new world of controversy,&quot; says Rawlings. &quot;When we released Endgame, we had people telling us that we were clearly on the side of the regime because the game was difficult so we were trying to put people off siding with the rebels; then we had people saying that, because you play o the rebel side, the game is pro-rebel.&quot;so you hit all those journalistic issues to do with bias, but then you also hit the issue of it being a game. That happened a lot with Narco – people said &apos;how dare you treat this serious issue as a game&apos;. You have to be prepared to stand by your work, even more than if you&apos;d have written a song or an essay. You need to say, no, a game can be sensitive to the material.&quot;Updatedat 4.46pm BST3.18pmBSTAnother hour, another interview!Just played the brilliant Timmy Bibble&apos;s Friendship Club, an intense local multiplayer arena shooter, set in the brain of a small boy. Originally created by two small studios – Force of Habit and Clockwork Cuckoo – for last year&apos;s Tiga Game Jam, it&apos;s currently going through the Steam Greenlight process (here&apos;s the page), with an eye to release on Early Access.Here is the development team:The team behind Timmy Bibble's Friendship Club. From the left: Tom Boot, Nick Dymond, Ashley Gwinnell and Sophie Humphries&quot;The player characters are Timmy&apos;s imaginary friends,&quot; explains Nick Dymond, one half of Force of Habit. &quot;When he goes to sleep each night, they battle it out to be his favourite.&quot;The battles take place in a series of procedurally generated rooms, all based around different childhood themes. &quot;It has the logic of a dream world,&quot; says artist Tom Boot. &quot;You&apos;ll walk from one memory into another. There are elements of books that Timmy has read and music he&apos;s heard, it&apos;s a psychedelic mish-mash.&quot;&quot;The art style is influenced byMary Blair, a key Disney artist of the fities,&quot; continues artist Sophie Humphries. &quot;She worked on Alice in Wonderland, Peter Pan... it&apos;s very much guided by children&apos;s illustrations. She used lots of bright colours.&quot;It&apos;s frantic stuff – all the bullets you fire bounce endlessly around the screen, so it quickly becomes a crazed bullet hell challenge just to stay alive. There&apos;s no re-spawning, so rounds are over very quickly, giving a super intensity to the action. The team was also inspired by the way that people often modify the rules of games when they&apos;re playing at home together, so the menu allows for a range of custom options. You can choose to play a series of rounds at 25 percent of the normal speed, for example, giving it a &quot;bullet time&quot; effect. There&apos;s also a headbutts only mode, aping the physical chaos of GoldenEye&apos;s famous &quot;slaps&quot; option.Timmy Bibble's Friendship Club: [deep breath] procedurally generated twin stick local multiplayer arena-based imaginary friend battle royale action.The controls are ultra precise, the aiming and movement handled in typical arena-style twin stick fashion. To be honest, it has digital console release written all over it, so hopefully Microsoft, Sony or Nintendo will cotton on fast.An early version of the game has been released through the GameJolt widget and it is now being rebuilt with a new tools system. I want to play it again. Right now. Bring it back to the office at once!Updatedat 3.29pm BST2.35pmBSTA screenshot of Tangiers, a dark, surreal open-world adventure, influenced by Thief and William S BurroughsI&apos;ve just been speaking to Alex Harvey from local development studio Andalusian. The four-person team successfully Kickstarted the sandbox stealth gameTangierslast summer, and now the project is in closed beta.&quot;It&apos;s basically Thief meets William S Burroughs,&quot; says Harvey. &quot;It&apos;s an emergent, immersive sim with Looking Glass-style gameplay, but it&apos;s also a love letter to 20th century avant garde from Dada to JG Ballard via Throbbing Gristle. I put everything I liked into a big melting pot and this is what came out at the end.&quot;There&apos;s a sort of Eastern European seventies sci-fi movie look about the minimalist visuals – all darkness and looming shadows. Similarly, the storyline is oblique and nihilistic: in fact you don&apos;t find out much at to begin with, just that you have to find five beings and disopose of them somehow.&quot;It&apos;s up to you to do that, however you like and in whatever order you like,&quot; says Harvey. &quot;If you invest more into the game in terms of finding audio logs and overhearing conversations, then the purpose and your relationship to this bizarre world becomes more apparent.&quot;The game is written in Unity, the more-or-less omnipresent 3D development engine, with a few extra plug-ins. &quot;Most of the coding is done in a visual system calledAntares Universe, which massively streamlines debugging - it lets us code the game while we&apos;re playing. We&apos;re also using an editor called Pro-Builder to construct the world.&quot;Tangiers is due for release via Steam later this year.1.46pmBSTJust eating an amazing jerk chicken wrap from the deli around the corner!1.13pmBSTNumber two is a purrrfect entry from@LukasRoper...@keefstuart@DevRelCallum@bossastudiospic.twitter.com/2vy2eIYCQi&mdash; Opposable Games (@OpposableGames)June 5, 2014Erm...1.12pmBSTNumber 3 from@JoeyBlakestonwill be a boss in our next game@DevRelCallum@bossastudios@keefstuart@OliverAge24pic.twitter.com/b3ZmYBeapW&mdash; Opposable Games (@OpposableGames)June 5, 2014This is what happens when you visit game developers...1.10pmBSTHere's a photo of the Bristol Games Hub in the 1910s (it's the building with the Master Polish sign). The area has changed a fair bit. For example, almost no one is wearing sailor suits now. It's notthatShoreditch.Updatedat 1.10pm BST12.30pmBSTCamelina Caper – a game about producing GM crops that can supply omega oils, thereby alleviating pressure on cod stocksWhat do we do about the growing market for omega-3 fish oils when fish stocks are rapidly diminishing? Auroch Digital has just released Camelina Caper, a science game created forRothamsted Research, about an alternative source of omega-3 fish oils.Rothamsted has produced a genetically modified version of the common Camelina crop, which produces a seed that contains the molecules necessary for the production of omega-3 fish oils. In the game, you control a fish that has to explore the ocean, collecting the elements needed to produce a molecule of omega-3 fish oil, while avoiding jelly fish.&quot;It illustrates the science of what&apos;s happening here,&quot; explains Auroch co-founder, Tomas Rawlings. &quot;In nature, the fish have to collect all these parts to make the omega-3 fish oil, in the GM seed you get them all in one place.&quot;Rothamsted Research is doing research towards developing sustainable sources of omega-3 fish oils. Using genetic modification Rothamsted scientists have developed Camelina plants, which when grown in the glass house, can produce omega-3 fish oils in their seeds. The scientists have just started a field trial to test the performance of the plant in real environmental conditions. The research institute is speaking about the process at the Cheltenham Science Festival this week. Eventually, the plan is to provide an alternative sustainable source of omega-3 fish oils that could potentially be used by the fish farming and fish feed industry.So why has Rothamstead commissioned a game to explain the process? Is it about generating positive PR in the controversial area of GM crops? &quot;There is a sustainability question,&quot; says Rawlings. &quot;If we want to have omega-3 fish oils in our diets through the consumption of fish, the majority of which come from fish farms, there has to be other solutions and this points to one possible GM solution.&quot;&quot;In science communication, there are very different audiences who have different points of contact. There is a growing, especially younger audience of people for whom games i s the primary medium, it&apos;s the way they think about and understand the world. Games is a natural language for them. So just as making a documentary is a way of reaching one group, and writing a book is a way of getting another group, making a game gets somebody else still.&quot;There are also also inherent advantages in using games to convey scientific issues. You can display information in gameplay that gives users a different understanding. With out news game, Endgame: Syria, players could re-play and take different decisions and explore the outcome - it&apos;s a non-linear way of exploring a subject.&quot;The game is now available for free on the Apple and Google app stores.Updatedat 1.45pm BST11.36amBST11.07amBSTA 360 degree Vine of the Bristol Games Hub. It's a little quiet today as one of the studios, Lo-Fi Games, has decamped to Gran Canaria for the summer...11.01amBSTSo just a little background on theBristol Games Hub. It&apos;s essentially an affordable open office space for small game development studios and lone freelancers.Two years ago, local developers Auroch Digital and Opposable Games were looking for office space in the city centre and decided to pool resources. They discovered an office block being renovated inStokes Croft, a previously dilapidated area of Bristol now being rejuvenated into something of a media hub. The landlords were happy to negotiate on terms, allowing Auroch and Opposable to rent on a desk-by-desk basis rather than committing many thousands to a conventional renting agreement.Co-founders Ben Trewhella and Tomas and Debbie Rawlings rent desks and then sub-let them to developers with a small overheads charge. &quot;It&apos;s very easy for developers to pop in and out,&quot; says Thomas. &quot;We don&apos;t require them to sign contracts: they come in and pay for the month they&apos;re using the space.&quot;If they have a big project on, they can bring in some more people and take a few extra desks, then slim down later. On top of that we run monthly events. We have a Unity developers group, we have a board game group, a social group for students and anyone interested in making games. We&apos;re looking at starting a marketing breakfast where indie devs can get together and discuss ideas. It&apos;s been an exciting journey.&quot;Right now, there are 34 staff taking up space in the building, which is being reonvated around them – the hub can accomodate around 30 more. It&apos;s mostly open plan, too, and developers often share staff and resources. &quot;The idea is collaborative work,&quot; says Debbie. &quot;We have this concept that we borrowed from thePervasive Media Studiocalled &apos;interruptability&apos;. The hub is designed for developers who are happy to chat, to share experiences and knowledge.&quot;Updatedat 3.20pm BST10.52amBSTAnd of course, this wouldn't be Bristol without a Banksy. This one is just over the road from the Games Hub...10.42amBSTIt&apos;s a sunny Thursday in the south west of England, and I&apos;m at the Bristol Games Hub in the city&apos;s Stokes Croft area. Described as the Shoreditch of Bristol, this region just off the city centre is undergoing major rejuvenation at the moment. Games are a part of it.
About six months ago I had an accident, which led to me losing the functionality of my right arm. This is coming back slowly, and I am finally well enough to return to work as a teacher. My work laptop -- it&apos;s about six years old -- is too big and heavy to lift and open one-handed, so I have decided to buy myself a new one. I&apos;ve found touchscreen devices easier than using a mouse. I&apos;ve spent quite some time researching touchscreen laptops, but with so many out there, I feel I am lost in a minefield.I use my tablet to do most things but find it hard to type long reports. I&apos;m looking for a laptop that has a very responsive touchscreen, is not too big, is light yet sturdy, and has a relatively good battery life. Typing one-handed, I need a keyboard that is not flat. I have looked at convertible tablets but had difficulties attaching the keyboard. I don&apos;t have a huge budget, so I am looking for something in the mid-range price bracket.NikkiIf your tablet can do most of the things you need, then the cheapest and simplest option would be to buy a keyboard for it. Tablets put a premium on thinness, so tablet keyboards tend to be thin. However, you can buy a bigger keyboard with proper keys, as long as it works with your device.This is easy with Windows 8 tablets, which work with the thousands of keyboards that connect either via Bluetooth or a USB/microUSB cable. Android tablets also support Bluetooth keyboards and mice, and some will work with USB keyboards if they support USB On The Go (OTG) adapters. The Apple iPad doesn&apos;t have a USB port, but will also work with Bluetooth keyboards.If your tablet runs Android, look atExternal Keyboard Helper Pro(£1.85). This supports a lot of different key layouts and lets you configure a keyboard to suit your needs.At this point, I was going to mention that there are some one-handed keyboards, including the famousFrogPad. If you haven&apos;t heard of this, there are some YouTube videos that show it in action, such asFrogPad One-handed keyboard - Overview and demonstration.However,Lilly Walters, a one-handed typist, says it is much better to use a conventional keyboard. She has developed a system of one-handed touch-typing where you position your fingers over the FGHJ keys. She says she can type at 40 to 85 words a minute. Whether it&apos;s worth developing the skill is another matter: it depends how long you think it will be before you are back to two-handed operation. Either way, there are huge benefits from learning to touch-type with two hands, and I assume this applies to one-handed touch-typing as well.Another alternative would be to buy a version of Dragon&apos;s voice recognition software from Nuance.Dragon NaturallySpeaking Home 12.0is cheap at £36.98, with the fullDragon NaturallySpeaking Premium 12.0at £90.78.Windows 8 and tabletsWindows 8 was launched in October 2012 with two distinct modes of operation. First, there&apos;s the Start screen, which works as a touchscreen tablet running apps that have been preinstalled or downloaded from the Windows Store. The Start screen also replaces the old Windows menu and search box. (You can do most things in Windows 8 just by typing a few characters or words directly into the Start screen.) Second, there&apos;s the Windows desktop, which works like Windows 7. For a guide, watch Scott Hanselman&apos;s videos, starting with the fourth (bottom) one on his web page: Three all new Windows 8.1 video tutorials.To take advantage of the dual nature of Windows 8, most PC manufacturers have produced innovative hybrids that can work either as a tablet or as a laptop or desktop. Some of these are indistinguishable from traditional laptops when the screen is locked into place. A leading example is the Asus Transformer Book T100, which is much like earlier (but more expensive) models running Google&apos;s Android. I suspect this is the sort of thing you&apos;ve tried.But there are alternatives. There are hybrids that convert from a laptop to a tablet by folding the keyboard back under the screen. There are leading examples in the Lenovo Yoga range. These are easier to operate with one hand. The drawback is that you still have to carry the weight and bulk of the keyboard while operating it in tablet mode. There are also &quot;pure&quot; Windows 8 tablets that are sold without keyboards, exactly like Android tablets and iPads. You can use these only as tablets or – as with any tablet – add your own keyboard.All Windows 8 Windows tablets still run Windows desktop software, but not the ones that run Windows RT. The leading example is Microsoft&apos;s Surface RT. RT machines are – like Apple and most Android tablets, and most smartphones – based on ARM processors. These chips cannot run standard Windows software written for Intel x86 processors. This means Windows RT has not been a success. However, Microsoft&apos;s RT-based Surface tablets include a free copy of the desktop version of Microsoft Office. If you run Office most of the time, or if your school runs Citrix (which provides access to Windows software on a server), then a Surface RT might be a viable option.Some Windows tablets also include Wacom-style screens and digitising pens that make them superb for graphic artists. Pens also enable users to annotate documents or handwrite notes into Microsoft OneNote.Windows 8 tabletsThe cheapest and lightest tablets are the ones with 8in screens such as the Toshiba Encore (£179.99 at PC World) and the Dell Venue 8 Pro (£279 from Dellincluding £24 shipping, or£220 on Amazon.co.uk). Both have WXGA (1280 x 800-pixel) screens. The Toshiba weighs 0.445kg while the Dell weighs 0.39kg. The Dell also has options such as a keyboard cover and an active pen, at extra cost.Either of these would do what you want, and both can be used with Bluetooth keyboards and mice, and so on. However, you may well feel the screens are just too small, even if you use the Control Panel to make Windows 8 scale things up by 125% or 150%. You should certainly see how Windows 8 desktop programs (not just apps) looks on an 8in tablet before buying one.The next cheapest option is the old 10.6in Surface RT tablet with 64GB of storage, reduced by £100 to £259. These are superbly made and have good 1366 x 768-pixel screens (the most common format on laptops). Also, they&apos;re light by laptop standards at 676g, though as with any tablet, you would have to add the extra weight and cost of a Bluetooth keyboard. (I suspect the special Windows Type cover will be too flat for you.) However, as mentioned, they don&apos;t run Windows desktop software, except for the built-in Office.Moving up to an old Microsoft Surface Pro with a Full HD 1920 x 1080 pixel screen, Intel Core i5-3317U processor and 128GB of storage pushes the price up to£499, without a Type cover keyboard. This is cheaper than a less-powerful 64GB iPad Air (£559), and while it&apos;s not the sort of price that appeals to most Windows buyers, it&apos;s worth considering for your purposes. The newer Surface Pro 2 costs more, and an improved Surface Pro 3 is due in August.The 10.8in Dell Venue 11 Pro is another option. However, it only has a quad-core Intel Atom Z3770 processor and the UK price is somewhere north of £500 (I broke Dell&apos;s website).Rotating screensLenovo pioneered the idea of rotating the keyboard behind the screen with its Yoga range. Your best bet is probably a £469.99IdeaPad Yoga 2with an 11.1in, 1366 x 768-pixel screen. This is thin (11.7mm) and reasonably light (1.45kg) for a laptop with a 2.1GHz quad-core Intel Pentium N3520 processor, 4GB of memory and 500GB hard drive. I&apos;d expect it to compare very favourably with your old work laptop.There are obviously more expensive versions, going up to the 13.3in Yoga 2 Pro Ultrabook with an Intel Core i7-4500U processor, 8GB of memory, and 256GB SSD (solid-state drive) at£1,199.99. That would be overkill for your purposes.The new theHP Pavilion x360range also, as its name suggests, swivels through 360 degrees to work in a tablet format. I&apos;ve not had chance to try one. Nonetheless, the 11.6in Pavilion x360 11-n010ea has a slower Celeron N2820 processor but otherwise a similar spec to the Yoga 2 for £349.99.I&apos;m not sure what you consider the &quot;midrange price bracket&quot;. I reckon it&apos;s about £350 to £500 or, pushing it, £599.99. The IdeaPad Yoga 2 fits that at £469.99, though the HP Pavilion x360 is £120 cheaper.Touch-screen laptopsThere are now dozens of touchscreen laptops that run Windows 8 or 8.1. These are not hybrids, and don&apos;t turn into tablets. However, I find the touch screen features surprisingly handy for some things, even in laptop mode. Models that are worth a look include the 1.2kgLenovo IdeaPad Flex 10with a Pentium N3510 for £329.95 and the 1.4kg 11.6inAsus VivoBook X200 Redwith a Celeron 1007U at £259.97. (In this case, the processors run at around the same speed but the 17 Watt dual-core Celeron 1007U uses more power than the 8W quad-core Pentium N3510.)The IdeaPad Flex 10 is a &quot;dual mode&quot; machine because you can put it with the keyboard face down and use it in &quot;viewing mode&quot;. However, my wife just bought one from John Lewis – she Asked Jack for one that would fit in her handbag and I gave her a shortlist – and it doesn&apos;t seem to be a feature she will ever use. Otherwise, the processor scores 5.2 on the Windows Experience Index and it&apos;s impressively nippy for such a small, cheap machine.I suggest you make a similar trip to a large retail store so you can make your own evaluations of the different designs, keyboards, and how sturdy they are. If sturdiness is very important, then the Microsoft Surface is by far the strongest and sturdiest: Microsoft&apos;s former head of Windows attached wheels to one and used it as a skateboard. The cheaper laptops, like the Lenovo Flex 10, are not very sturdy, but the Yoga 2 seems solid enough to me.
Previously unpublished chat logs between Hector Xavier Monsegur, the super-hacker known as “Sabu”, and fellow members of the Anonymous collective have revealed the vast scale of breaches Monsegur orchestrated on government and business websites in Brazil at a time when he was acting as an informant for the FBI.The suspicion has long been floated that the FBI may have used Monsegur to instigate cyber-attacks by a network of international hackers on foreign governments and commercial targets. The claim was raised by another prominent Anonymous and LulzSec hacker, Jeremy Hammond, as he wassentenced to 10 yearsin prison.But the newly-published chats, which are under seal in the US federal courts but were obtained by Vice’s online magazineMotherboard, give chapter and verse on how Monsegur directly incited Anonymous hackers to attack Brazilian sites. The targets included the server of the Brazilian federal military policy, other government sites, the media empire Globo and hundreds of commercial outlets.“Hit these bitches for our Brazilian squad,” Monsegur told Hammond in a private chat disclosed by Motherboard. In another he said: “Work on the gov.”The Vice report, written by Daniel Stuckey and Andrew Blake, also reveals that Monsegur was aware of the huge scale of what he was fomenting.“What we are doing is so massive,” he wrote to Hammond.The targeting of foreign sites was “something WikiLeaks couldn’t have done”. Yet Monsegur encouraged all these actions after he was approached by FBI agents in his Manhattan apartment on 7 June 2011, at which point he immediately turned informant, as the US governmenthas itself confirmed.Such were the lengths to which the FBI went to monitor Monsegur’s online activities over the following months, including setting up cameras in his apartment, that it is unlikely anything the hacker-turned-informant did would have gone unnoticed by his official handlers.Monsegur, whose work as an informant helped to convict Hammond and at least seven other prominent Anonymous hackers in the US, UK and Ireland, was allowed by a federal judge last monthto walk freeon time served. The judge, Loretta Preska,repeatedly praised Monsegur for his “extraordinary cooperation” with the FBI.The Motherboard chats show that Monsegur pointed an inner circle of AntiSec hackers towards Brazilian sites that could be breached, as well as passing on details of targets to a network of hackers operating inside the country.“I’m about to get brazillians [sic] to go in a rampage,” he said to Hammond in one private chat.In a chat with a different unidentified hacker, Monsegur said: “we gave them root on brazils biggest media site globo. So lets see how they handle it.”In January 2012, seven months into his new role as FBI informant, Sabu sent a hacker going by the internet handle “hard366” a long list of potential targets attached to the domain .gov.br .According to the Motherboard disclosures, Monsegur told the hacker: “do whatever you want, its yours brother… this is a real server ready for defacement.”
The Guardian has launched a secure platform for whistleblowers to securely submit confidential documents to the newspaper’s reporters.The launch comes a year to the day sincethe Guardian posted the first of a series of NSA documentsleaked by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden, sparking a worldwide debate on surveillance, privacy, and civil liberties.Free speech and privacy groups alongside popular sites including Reddit, BoingBoing and Imgur, are marking the day with a Reset the Net campaign, encouraging internet users to take direct action to secure their privacy online. Several technology companies are also expected to announce new steps to protect users’ privacy over the course of the day.The SecureDrop open-source whistleblowing platform provides a way for sources, who can choose to remain anonymous, to submit documents and data while avoiding virtually all of the most common forms of online tracking.It makes use of well-known anonymising technology such as the Tor network and the Tails operating system, which was used by journalists working on the Snowden files.The New Yorker, the US not-for-profit investigative newsroom ProPublica, and the Pierre Omidyar-backed startup The Intercept are among the newsrooms already making use of the SecureDrop system.The SecureDrop platform was initially developed by the US developer and activist Aaron Swartz, who killed himself in 2013 when facing charges under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act for the mass downloading of academic articles.The platform was finished after Swartz’s death, and is now maintained and promoted by the not-for-profit Freedom of the Press Foundation.Sources who wish to consider using the system to contact the Guardian can find information on how to use the SecureDrop platform athttps://securedrop.theguardian.com.This page is hosted on a separate server from the main Guardian site, includes no tracking cookies, and takes no logs. Like almost all other news organisations, regular Guardian webpages use tracking cookies to keep track of users’ login details and to serve advertising.&quot;Protecting sources is at the core of journalism, and as the Guardian&apos;s revelations from the Edward Snowden documents over the last year have shown, it&apos;s getting ever more difficult,” said Alan Rusbridger, the editor-in-chief of the Guardian.“We&apos;re pleased to be able to use the best technology available to make sure we&apos;re doing everything we can to let sources talk to our journalists securely, and hope as many other outlets as possible do the same&quot;The Guardian’s SecureDrop system is installed outside of the UK. Last year, the UK government was criticized by international press freedom organisations for applying pressure to the Guardian over its publication of the NSA documents leaked by Snowden, leading to the news organization relocating its reporting on the files to the USA, and destroying all copies of the documents stored in its UK headquarters.Trevor Timm, the director of the Freedom of the Press Foundation, said the development of SecureDrop was part of a wider response to government crackdowns on journalists and whistleblowers in the US and across the world.“In an age where governments are increasingly using surveillance to uncover sources and chill investigative journalism, technology can help whistleblowers and reporters safely get important stories to the public,” he said.“SecureDrop is designed specifically for news organizations so they can receive tips and documents in a much more anonymous and secure way than email or phone calls.”SecureDrop was given an extensive security audit by a team of cryptographers in July 2013, and updated in response to many of the concerns raised at the time. The system was also updated to address the widely reported Heartbleed security vulnerability.While the system is far more secure than, for example, emailing information to a reporter, SecureDrop specifically does not promise 100% security.“[A]ny organization or product that promises 100% security is not telling the truth,” says the Freedom of the Press Foundation website. “SecureDrop attempts to create [a] significantly more secure environment for sources to get information than exists through normal digital channels, but there are always risks.”The steps taken by the system include secure browsing advice to potential sources, making use of the Tor network, which anonymises internet traffic by bouncing it through a series of intermediate computers, requiring “air-gapped” – a term mean disconnected from all networks – computers to open documents, and use of secure operating systems to analyse any documents.The system also allows for secure two-way communication between sources and journalists after the initial contact is made, if the source so wishes.• Find out more details of how to securely contact the Guardian athttps://securedrop.theguardian.com.
The British firm Imagination Technologies has developed a new “Wi-Fi hi-fi” audio technology that allows any app or service to stream audio via any Bluetooth device to any compatible speakers connected to a user’s Wi-Fi network.Pure, which is owned by Imagination, first released the technology in its range of Jongo wireless speakers which allow users to connect any Bluetooth device to one speaker and have that speaker then stream the music to every other speaker that’s switched on.‘The clever Caskeid bit’“Caskeid is how we make sure that all the audio is played in sync, how we get the clocks on all the devices tightly synchronised so that the music is played within a few microseconds of each other,” Jeremy Abington, director of software engineering at Imagination Technology, told the Guardian.Other multi-room audio systems that use Wi-Fi to stream audio around a house, like multi-room system Sonos, cannot match Imagination’s patented technology so far, according to Abington.“A Sonos multi-room audio setup, for instance, is in the region of milliseconds where as we’re down in the order of a few microseconds,” explained Abington.The tighter the audio synchronisation the better the audio sounds, especially when using two speakers in the same room. It’s a bit like when audio and video comes out of sync, where the lips move but the speech comes through the speakers a fraction too late. It’s not a big difference, but once you’ve noticed it it’s difficult to get over.“Once you’ve heard the difference, it’s very difficult to go back to something inferior,” said Abington. “Once you hear the good quality sound you realise how much better it mimics the experience the guys in the recording studio wanted to create, for instance.”‘Wake up and stream the music’Bluetooth Caskeid. Photograph: PureAvailable in Pure’s Jongo speakers for the last year or so, Caskeid previously only allowed users to stream certain music sources, like the Pure’s own music streaming service, around the house directly via Wi-Fi, likely thanks to the digital rights management services like Spotify, Deezer and Google’s Play Music use.Now Imagination has added new technology to bridge the more common Bluetooth audio streaming to the Wi-Fi Caskeid system.“The speaker can go, ‘Ah, ok, you’re streaming via Bluetooth to me, I’ll have a look around the network for any other Bluetooth Caskeid enabled speakers and I will tell them I’m streaming Bluetooth’,” explained Abington.“The speaker then acts as a controller telling the others to wake up and stream the music from the first speaker without the user having do to anything.”The Bluetooth Caskeid functionallows any music or audio that’s on a smartphone, tablet or computer to be played on a multi-room audio system without forcing users to download a specific app or proprietary service.Pure’s Jongos are some of the first speakers upgraded to work with the new Bluetooth Caskeid system, with other Imagination partners like Germany-based Peaq and Japan’s Onkyo expected to join soon.It works as well as they say it doesThe Pure Jongo Bluetooth Caskeid system is very easy to use. Each speaker has an option to enable Bluetooth audio streaming via Caskeid, configured using the Pure Connect app on a smartphone or tablet, which once ticked will cause the speaker to both play the music streamed to it and fire out the same music via the Wi-Fi network.The volume is then controlled on a speaker-by-speaker basis, so that each room can adjust the volume to suit, as well as on an entire house basis using the volume control on the smartphone, tablet or computer that is being used to stream the music.‘Get to the point where it is as easy as it is to listen to the radio’Abington said more improvements to the system are planned.“We’re continually improving the technology. We want to get to the point where streaming music around the home is as easy as it is to listen to the radio,” said Abington. “At the press of a button you should be able to hear whatever content you like around your house, and it shouldn’t be a significant technological process of how to set stuff up and how to use it.”There are significant hurdles to getting to the point where “it just works”, not least the wide variety of Wi-Fi home setups which often include cheap, poor Wi-Fi routers provided by internet service providers.The next stage for Imagination’s Caskeid is integration directly into smartphone apps, which Abington said should be coming soon as the company has a number of partners already working on adding the technology, and a more open software development kit is due later this year for any developer to use.•Sonos multi-room music system is like premium beer – but at a champagne price•Spotify Connect builds streaming music service directly into hi-fis
Internet users who visit a website are safe from the threat of a copyright lawsuit, thanks toa landmark casewhich concluded in the European court of justice on Thursday.The court ruled that browsing and viewing articles online doesn&apos;t require authorisation from the copyright holder, settling a row between the PRCA, the industry body for Britain&apos;s PR industry, and the Newspaper Licensing Authority (NLA), which had raged for five years. The fight began in a copyright tribunal between media monitoring firm Meltwater and the NLA.The ECJ ruled that European law &quot;must be interpreted as meaning that the on-screen copies and the cached copies made by an end-user in the course of viewing a website satisfy the conditions… and that they may therefore be made without the authorisation of the copyright holders.&quot;Ben Allgrove, who led the legal team that represented the PRCA in court, said that &quot;the question, which was clearly significant enough for both sides to fight it all the way through the high court, supreme court and European court of justice, was around whether the copying that occurs when you browse the internet triggers copyright claims for the recipients… It is a fundamentally important question of copyright law.&quot;Technical copiesWhen internet users browse the web, their computer makes a copy of the webpage they are visiting in order to display it on the screen.Francis Davey, an independent barrister who specialises in copyright law, argues that a part of EU law known as the temporary copying exception was &quot;intended to avoid anyone having to worry about all that from a copyright perspective&quot;.&quot;The way copyright law is constructed might make it awkward if, in principle, you always needed permission from a copyright owner to browse material made available on the web (lawfully, by that copyright owner),&quot; Davey told the Guardian.&quot;I think this decision is a good thing, because it makes it clear that browsing lawful material on the web is not a potential infringement, but I don&apos;t think we have reached the end of the story.&quot;The NLA is the body which licenses businesses to distribute reproductions of newspaper content, including that of the Guardian. It had argued that the fees PR firms pay for those reproductions should take into account the copies made on the reader&apos;s computers, and had won on that point in the UK&apos;s high court.But its managing director, David Pugh, argues that the point of law at stake is narrower than the PRCA made out.&quot;In our view, [the temporary copying] exception is designed to protect ISPs and telecoms companies when they&apos;re transmitting data from A to B in networks. The PR spin put on this case was that if our ruling was allowed to stand then users of the internet would be criminalised for using a browser, but that&apos;s never been what it&apos;s about.&quot;Allgrove agrees that &quot;for the vast majority of mums and dads and sons and daughters, that probably is a fair analysis.&quot; But he argues that the principle at stake remains important.&quot;The real question here is should the internet be one where browsing is permitted or where it&apos;s permissible. The NLA&apos;s view is that it should be permissible, so that it can pick and choose: it wanted to charge media monitors, but it didn&apos;t want to charge Mr and Mrs Smith.&quot;&quot;Even if the NLA&apos;s members had kept to that, other publishers would be able to pick and choose who reads their website. The NLA&apos;s view would, in effect, have said &apos;look, you can plaster up a billboard, and then charge some people for reading it.&apos;&quot;Pugh declined to comment on what the law would have permitted had the NLA won, but argued that &quot;the immediate impact is that there is no impact. This ruling does not change the fact that Meltwater needs a license to copy your content.&quot;&quot;A very tiny exception&quot;Dominic Young, a former chairman of the NLA, argued that 2013&apos;s supreme court case, which the ECJ concurred with, misapplied the temporary copying exemption.He wrotethat the exemption &quot;was created to avoid a situation in which the copies made, for example, in a router as it passes data from one machine to another, were infringing and therefore became the focus of legal actions or problems.&quot;&quot;The law is written to say that in limited circumstances a very tiny exception to copyright law is created,&quot; Young continued. But, he argued, the supreme court&apos;s &quot;judgment broadens those circumstances to include almost any activity by end-users on the internet&quot;.The battle between Meltwater and the NLA started in a copyright tribunal, which ruled that the NLA had to reduce the fees it charged to media monitors. The NLA appealed to the high court, and won on two points of legal principle.The first, that internet users need a license for temporary copies of webpages stored on their computers, was overturned on Thursday.The second point was that headlines can be covered by copyright, even if they are only reproduced to link back to the original article. That ruling still stands.•Google ethics adviser: The law needs bold ideas to address the digital age
The Visual Arts Center in Austin, Texas, currently has a very unusual exhibit: a vintage girl&apos;s bedroom, perfectly preserved. There&apos;s a chunky monitor pegged to a Nintendo Entertainment System, all dove&apos;s breast gray and violet.Pom poms decorate the television as a pink pinata slumps alongside; a pearly Polly Pocket toy, Judy Blume novels and posters depicting the romantic heroines from popular anime series Sailor Moon complete the picture. It&apos;s presented in the museum as a &quot;typical girl&apos;s room&quot; from the early 1990s. Also in the museum is another exhibit: a set of plastic digital Barbie game capsules under glass, hushed and precious. It looks like a priceless slice of history.Except none of it&apos;s real, exactly. The little girl&apos;s room never happened. And the Barbie games are virtually worthless.This is the art of Rachel Simone Weil, who has reimagined the nostalgic digital past as it might look if girly things had mattered then. A digital artist, programmer and rom-hacker, Weil found herself increasingly drawn to obsolete technology and collector culture – where she was surprised to learn that the traditionally feminine had no real value, financially or otherwise.The Game Room installation imagines that experiences of "girls' games" are valued as much as conventional classics like MarioNostalgia is somewhat obligatory for video game fans, who loyally subscribe to the iconography of 1UP mushrooms, blocky space invaders, neon power-ups and the wistful bleeps and bloops of Link and Mario. But rarely in that 1980s boy-hero vocabulary is there room for hearts, frills and dolls. While she liked computers and going to arcades to play Skee-Ball, Weil herself didn&apos;t have much interest in console games as a young child; the advertisements for the NES made it seem tough, competitive, and ‘for boys.’&quot;I remember different instances in my childhood of watching boys playing the NES, and feeling I couldn&apos;t interrupt,&quot; she reflects. &quot;I didn&apos;t have the courage to have a turn at the controller. I don&apos;t know what possessed me to behave that way, but I internalised this idea that girls didn’t play video games.&quot;Discarded iconsOnce the games became vintage objects, the pressure was off. Nobody wanted a Sega Megadrive or a NES anymore; cartridges cost 49 cents. Little by little, Weil became passionate about collecting older games. She browsed dusty garage sales in fascination, at last with the full permission to touch, buy and try.&quot;When I was about 12 or 13, I got the internet for the first time, and I was able to go online and read about games that had never made it to the US from Japan,&quot; says Weil. &quot;They were really cutesy and girly, these Sailor Moon and Hello Kitty games. It opened up a whole new world for me – and this area of inquiry led me to ask other sorts of questions.&quot;She began hanging out in collector forums online, among other devotees of the obsolete who focused on cataloging and collecting old cartridges and logging and discussing every entry both grand and obscure in the history of video games. She fell in love with the cute, pink sensibilities of Kirby&apos;s Adventure, a well-regarded platformer where an adorable, marshmallow-like ghost sucks in and swallows objects in his environment.Judy Blume books stacked up against a TV monitor and games console, with Mario peeking in the backgroundAt the same time, Weil had begun hacking and emulating old games online, flexing a programming vocabulary which helped her learn to love old games and their palette swaps and sprite sheets even more; artifacts viewed from intimate angles.But Weil remained interested in learning more about the Japanese girl-games about teen soldiers in sailor skirts, about the dollhouse oddities filigreed with princess crowns and Barbie branding. She wanted to know where to find them, and how much they might be worth. And when she asked the collector community about Barbie games, or princess games, she found they were not valued.&quot;That got me interested in researching more about these games,&quot; Weil says. &quot;Collectors were very dismissive of them, and I thought that was interesting.&quot;Weil soon realised the only way she was going to learn more about pretty, cute old video games was to collect them herself. She found vast amounts of missing or incorrect information online, and often there was a lack of interest or even outright derision regarding games about domesticity and girlhood.In order to address this, she launched theFemicom Museumproject in 2012, an ongoing catalog of the cute, pink and girly in obscure gaming history. Some of the museum&apos;s catalog lives on a massive shelf in her personal collection, others are digital listings maintained by Weil and contributors. In particular, the Japan-only games offer a uniquely fascinating space, where gender expression doesn&apos;t always map directly to the ways it&apos;s understood in the west. Often in Japan, games that look like they&apos;re aimed at women enjoy a majority-male audience.When she borrowed imagery from those games for her audiovisual projects – chiptune music shows often feature handmade mashups of old game iconography by artists like Weil – audiences responded positively, but many would tell her they thought her aesthetic choices were &quot;funny&quot; or &quot;ironic.&quot; She wondered why. When she included one of her personal flowery favorites, Kirby&apos;s Adventure, in the Femicom Museum collection, she received protests from male collectors who thought the action title didn&apos;t belong. How, they asked her, could something they enjoyed be thought of as feminine?Weil&apos;s joyful embrace of corny 1980s fuschia girlhood seems, at a glance, to run counter to the most vocal feminist messaging about video games right now: that princesses are sexist, that pink is just cynical pandering that reinforces gender roles, and that such a binary history embarrasses the medium. Sometimes passionate feminism online forgets not to be legislative, forgets that there are plenty of girls who just like pink, or who want to wear tiaras, and that their agency and their experience deserves permission and respect.&quot;It’s a little challenging,&quot; Weil admits. &quot;I understand where this feminist critique is coming from, the concerns about stereotypes, but I think it&apos;s important not to erase girls’ and women&apos;s experiences, either. I think it&apos;s important we don&apos;t throw all these girly games and cultural artifacts in the trash and pretend they never happened. It’s part of a recurring theme, I think: works by or for women are so often deemed marginal or embarrassing or inadequate or inappropriate, and therefore omitted from history. And then decades later, we&apos;re wondering, ‘Where were the female writers, politicians, artists? Where were the girly games?’&quot;And game culture is so often interested in and entertained by the quirky, the ugly, the failures. Some collectors and historians are devoted to elements of games that were never quite finished or are legendarily rare (Ninja Turtles pretenderCheetahmen IIis a favorite), or to famous legendarily awful or silly commercial busts.Why shouldn&apos;t the awkwardness of a Barbie mermaid game get to join this circus of the strange? Especially in the modern age, as games that let players exploit glitches, record hilarious mistakes, and otherwise enjoy games in ways that weren&apos;t necessarily intended are subjects of popular visitation. One of Weil&apos;s old Barbie games lets players build their own short films, well ahead of its time.&quot;We can really give these games a cultural consideration that&apos;s more nuanced than, &apos;oh, it&apos;s pink, it definitely really sucks,&apos;&quot; Weil says.&quot;I hope what will happen with the Femicom Museum is that boys and girls alike can look back at these historical games and interpret them in their own ways, in perhaps nontraditional ways,&quot; she adds. &quot;I&apos;m interested in that sort of play: authenticity and truth and accuracy are things that, over time as a collector, I&apos;ve become sort of wary of, and I think there&apos;s a lot of value in our ability to read new things into our past – and to make new things from it.&quot;Weil has even begun tucking her own hand-made interlopers into gaming&apos;s &quot;history&quot; – games that repurpose or simulate vintage graphics, games she might have wanted if they really had been available in her childhood. Recently, she did a subtle but striking hack of Capcom&apos;s classic Mega Man 2: &quot;The only thing I changed about the game is I replaced the typeface with the typeface from an NES Barbie game, which was just slightly curly and italic.&quot;Just a subtle change to such a lionised classic feels profoundly disruptive, even disturbing.Taking a cue from old fortune-telling devices and Nintendo&apos;s old Game &amp; Watch portable machines – the folding plastic cases of which were modeled after cosmetic compacts – and influenced by tacky teen-girl magazine horoscopes, Weil also created an NES game calledElectronic Sweet N Fun Fortune Teller, which allows players to enter their birthday and blood type, and hiccups out a &quot;horoscope&quot; made out of glitchy sentence fragments. It also includes a love compatibility test, inspired by similar online tools such as the Love Calculator.Sweet n Fun Fortune Teller is also part of Weil&apos;s exhibit at Austin&apos;s Visual Arts center, which posits an alternative, girly history for game culture, complete with narrational placards. The Barbie For Girls Portable Arcade Collection, six LCD handhelds still in their little blister packs, live in their fine museum glass vitrine, lit dramatically and treated as important historical artifacts.&quot;The reality is these games were purchased very, very inexpensively on eBay,&quot; Weil laughs. &quot;They&apos;re not considered to be collectible or valuable. What was really exciting to me was seeing, on the exhibit&apos;s opening night, younger girls and women who were just running over to the case and going, &apos;whoa, that&apos;s cool,&apos;... something as simple as putting them in the case gave them value.&quot;Exhibition as criticismThese examinations of what does and does not have value – both monetary and cultural – in game history and collection is how Weil does videogame criticism. It&apos;s important to her that her work is additive, and comprises a critique that doesn&apos;t tear down or punish the legitimately sweet childhood memories of the world of video games that people hold dear.&quot;I&apos;m hopeful that in this work, I can inspire people to think about other ways to do criticism, and one of those ways might be to create these utopias and reimagined histories,&quot; she says.As gaming diversifies in the future, and includes more and broader experiences of race, gender, culture and class, it&apos;s fascinating to see in Weil&apos;s work an example of how it&apos;s possible to rewrite history so that underrepresented or undervalued fans may see themselves in it. Weil cites the 2010 addition of Kevin Keller to the Archie Comics universe – an openly gay young man in the Riverdale world of quaint 1950s Americana and letter-jacket masculinity – as another example of using an old, established aesthetic to reimagine the past and how it is remembered and valued today.&quot;I want to build something new,&quot; Weil enthuses.It&apos;s worth wondering whether, in another 50 years, onlookers and researchers will even be able to tell the difference between true history and this type of surprising, subversive reimagination. Many things may have little to no value in gaming&apos;s history now, but what would the world look like if they had?•10 happiest video games of all time – gallery•Nintendo Game Boy – 25 facts for its 25th anniversary•Sonic the Hedgehog: how fans have subverted a fallen mascot
A fresh strain of criminal software has been discovered encrypting the data of Android smartphone owners, then demanding payment to unlock it.The Simplocker ransomware scans victims&apos; SD memory cards for certain files, including images, PDFs and other documents, and audio files, before locking them using the AES encryption standard, according to security company ESET.It&apos;s the first malware found to be encrypting data on Android phones before demanding payment to decrypt it,according to a blog postby ESET&apos;s security intelligence team lead Robert Lipovsky.Simplocker asks for a payment of 260 Ukrainian hryvnias (£13) to decrypt victims&apos; files, directing them to the MoneXy transfer service.The malware also sends phone information, such as the IMEI number, to a server controlled by the attackers, which is based on the Tor network. Tor uses encryption and sends communications through a number of difference servers to ensure it’s extremely difficult to track users.In the case of the attackers, it makes their operation that much harder for law enforcement to track and shut down.Should you be worried? Not yet, if you&apos;re in the west. Lipovsky said that Simplocker appears to be solely active in the Ukrainian region; is not found on Android&apos;s official Google Play Store; and is not currently widespread.He added that the level of encryption used by Simplocker is significantly weaker than that of Cryptolocker, the aggressive Windows ransomware that global law enforcement authorities have been trying to shut down over the past week.“While the malware does contain functionality to decrypt the files, we strongly recommend against paying up – not only because that will only motivate other malware authors to continue these kinds of filthy operations, but also because there is no guarantee that the crook will keep their part of the deal and actually decrypt them,” Lipovsky added.Various forms of Android ransomware have been uncovered in recent months. In May, security expertswarned about a strain called Koler, which posed as a porn app. It then sent a message claiming to be from police, telling the user they had broken the law by watching indecent material, demanding they pay a fine of $300.Yet Windows remains the number one target for ransomware. The Guardian reported this week that the Cryptolocker malware hasinfected as many as 50,000 computers in the UK alone.•How can I keep my Android tablet or smartphone secure?
Video games are entertaining, enjoyable and beneficial to children in many ways. They educate, provide space for creativity and offer healthy social interaction. But at the same time, the best examples are highly moreish and children will push boundaries to play for increasing lengths of time.Excessive behaviour in any area of life rightly signals alarm bells for parents. However, for emerging an technology like games, it can be hard to identify excess over enthusiasm. Is an hour a day okay? Two? It&apos;s even harder to judge if you don&apos;t play games yourself.One approach is to look at what how other families are doing it. The 2012ISFE Video Games in Europe Consumer Studyshows that a surprisingly wide range of ages play games: 40% of the UK population in fact, of which 24% play at least weekly. This picture is brought into greater focus by last year’s government briefing,How Healthy Behaviour Supports Children’s Wellbeing. It states that in England, video games were played for two hours or more a day by 55% of boys and 20% of girls in 2010.Teens and gamesOn the more extreme end of the spectrum, the clinical physiologist Dr Tanya Byron reported that “7% of teens in the UK play more than 30 hours of computer games a week” in her report,Safe Children in a Digital World.We asked Andy Phippen, professor of social responsibility in IT at Plymouth University, whether prolonged play time should concern parents.“It is agreed that excessive screen time – over four hours with no break – can be a bad thing. There is a lot of research on this. However, we should also consider time of day, weekends versus school days and the age of the child.”He also shared this “South West Grid for Learning” graph to be published later this year based on 6000 children from the UK. It offers another useful measure of screen time – excluding TV – per day compared to school year and shows this increasing with age.Graph showing screen time (excluding TV) per day compared to school yearThe higher end of these figures can seem obsessive but Byron’s report makes it clear that gaming is far from a diagnosable addiction. More usefully some of the language of addiction can help parents identify when things are getting a bit much. Playing every day, devoting long periods of time, sacrificing other activities, neglecting homework and moodiness… the last two may describe many of our children, but Byron suggests that where four or more of these factors exist there may be cause for concern and need for intervention.&quot;Games should be played as part of a healthy and balanced lifestyle,&quot; says Dr Jo Twist, CEO of UKIE, the UK games industry trade body. “Players should take regular breaks – a good guide is five minutes rest every 45 – 60 minutes of gameplay. A lot more information about these and many other safe and sensible gaming tips can be find onAsk About Games, our website where families can make sense of games.”In light of this, appropriate gaming time is more about its impact on the child’s wider life than a hard and fast time limit. As children get older, they will naturally integrate gaming among other activities (outside interests, friendship groups and even homework) so the dividing line will become more blurred.Games versus televisionDistinguishing gaming habits from other screen time is important as well. While TV and video games appear similar on the surface, the interactive nature of the latter results in an experience more like a physical toy. Phippen highlights this misunderstanding. “I’m not sure games provide any different parameters to other interactive, immersive activities. Would we ask ‘How long should children play Lego for’?”Video games offer distinct advantages over television, particularly the recent trend in cross-over titles like Skylanders and Disney Infinity; these come with compatible action figures which allow children to play away from the screen – although, of course, parents may recoil at the costs involved in buying multiple characters.Where intervention is required, keeping game technology in shared family space rather than bedrooms is by far the most effective and informal solution. This does require compromise on both the part of the child (losing their private pursuit) and the parent (having to share the main TV) but has the advantage of not only keeping games in eyeshot but encouraging families to play together – something that children are often more enthusiastic about than parents anticipate.Using Parental Controls to restrict access to particular PEGI-rated games is a good driver for conversation and agreement over appropriate gaming habits in a family. There are also specific hardware features like the Xbox 360’s family timer that pauses the action after a pre-determined amount of daily screen time – although strangely this hasn’t made it over to the Xbox One yet.A combination of these reference points, regular breaks, tools like PEGI ratings and Parental Controls, along with moving technology back into family spaces, ensures parents and children maintain a healthy relationship to video games.Further readingPEGI Annual Report 2013BBC One Show Healthier Gaming Advice•Video games and violence: a parents&apos; guide•What every parent needs to know about video games: a crash course•Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare – a non-gamer&apos;s guide
For the video game industry, Monday 14 April 2014 was just another day of layoffs and wasted creative energy.The massively multiplayer online game World of Darkness had spent nine years in development but was being cancelled, and its production studio CCP Atlanta slashed to a sliver of its former size. Fifty-six people lost their jobs.Insiders could barely muster a collective shrug. A few wondered if anything could be done about the increasingly sorry state of the business, about developers like Irrational and 38 Studios closing and constant downsizing, but not many questioned how it had all happened this time. This was a project with a promising pedigree – based around one of the most popular table-top gaming franchises since Dungeons and Dragons.How did it fall apart after almost a decade of work?The origins of World of DarknessThe story begins 25 years earlier at the peak of the tabletop roleplaying games industry. Back in the 1990s, a company named White Wolf loomed over this arcane landscape with a hugely successful series of games about vampires, werewolves, and wizards lurking behind our mundane reality.Years before Twilight and its sulky undead hordes, World of Darkness mixed punk-rock rebellion and gothic style into the vampire mythos, grabbing the 90s zeitgeist by the throat and selling millions of books in the process. There was even a short-lived Aaron Spelling television show.But the good times didn’t last for tabletop gaming. Over-confident expansion, rising printing costs and the growth of video games brought the sector to its knees. And White Wolf wasn’t immune.That’s when Icelandic studio CCP Games swooped in. Founded in Reykjavík in 1997, the company launched its ambitious sandbox spaceship game, Eve Online, six years later. Boasting a complex player-made economy and dramatic space battles, it was like nothing else out there – a living, breathing sci-fi universe. By 2006 it had attracted 100,000 subscribers. Flushed with success and confidence, the company was looking to expand.White Wolf was a natural fit. There was plenty of desirable intellectual property locked up in its range of board games and trading cards, especially World of Darkness. And CCP was effectively White Wolf for the MMO era: hipper than the competition, punching above its financial weight, and flirting with wider mass market attention.Disorganised managementIn November 2006, the two companies merged, with White Wolf becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of CCP. Immediately, work began on a massively multiplayer online game based around World of Darkness, featuring all of the unpredictability and openness of Eve Online.CCP, to its immense credit, offered to keep on most, if not all, existing White Wolf staff. It was, according to those involved, a smooth transition; artists stayed on as artists, accountants as accountants. The existing staff who needed to transition to new roles were quick to learn fresh skills in areas like coding. However, plans for a swift ramp up to full production on the World of Darkness MMO faded as the pre-production and training phase dragged on.There was another problem. Several members of the WoD development team told the Guardian that this early bump in the road was exacerbated by extreme disorganisation on the part of CCP’s Icelandic management. Very shortly after initial development began, the company started blurring the lines between the World of Darkness and Eve projects.Repeatedly, staff were shifted over from the former to work on expansion projects for the latter. At times, our sources say, the entire WoD staff was put onto Eve, particularly during the development of 2009 add-on Apocrypha.“On many different occasions throughout the years I was there, CCP would often ‘poach’ WoD staff for expansion projects,” recalls Nick Blood, a former developer and game master at CCP.“There were plenty of developers who would get redirected to create Eve content for three to six month cycles… During these times, World of Darkness development was significantly slowed down. I remember the upper management often exasperatedly trying to figure out what to do with the remaining staff for a six-month period while their artists and programmers were busy elsewhere.”&apos;There was very little of the core game in it&apos;This constant yo-yo effect contributed to a development cycle in which planned features were partially completed and then dumped numerous times over. There seemed to be no clear vision on how the various parts would create a cohesive end product.Sources report that, over the nine-year period, the game effectively reached alpha – the stage at which all the major features have been implemented - three times, only for each version to be scrapped.“I tested it myself, on two different occasions out of those three,” says Blood. “With the first playtest, I was amazed at how little of the core game was there – at this point the game had been in development for over half a decade. I mean, there was just nothing, literally nothing, for someone like me, a complete outsider to the WoD IP, to appreciate.&quot;Other testers who were familiar with it thought it was great that they could finally see their avatars ‘diablerise’ – or consume – other player’s corpses, for health, or something. I just kind of shook my head and wondered how this would ever draw in anything other than die-hard fans.“On the second play test, quite some time later, I was struck by how much had changed – and yet remained unfinished. The flagship achievement was a new movement system, made after scrapping the old one, which was similar to the Assassin’s Creed gameplay – with mantling walls, etc. But it was very basic in comparison. CCP was quite self-congratulatory on achieving this much, and the internal propaganda was that this kind of movement system would revolutionise MMO gaming.”&apos;Coders had to throw work away again and again&apos;For the coders there was a constant state of flux. “Almost every system in the game was designed, built and tested at least once, most of them multiple times,” says one gameplay programmer. “Some of the systems were reportedly pretty cool; they had never been seen in MMOs before. The problem was that, without a cogent vision, none of it gelled. There was no clear path towards ‘done’.&quot;So the team just ended up building stuff and throwing it away, over and over again. It&apos;s something I saw on Eve and Dust as well - the teams would build a feature, then be told by management to make ‘small changes’ which necessitated a full, back-to-square-one rewrite.”One manager couldn&apos;t answer questions on gameplay or focus. I remember him standing over the shoulder of a programmer putting his finger to his lips and saying &apos;No - make it more...psssshhhh’This constant build and rebuild approach meant massive issues in the development process. Features that were good enough to retain in one build had to be redesigned from scratch for the next because so many other interconnected parts had changed. Even when there was enough to play, internal testing revealed a confused and unfocused experience.Most of the sources spoken to for this piece identified the same problematic CCP manager, who had little vision for what the finished game would look like.“Not once could he answer any question about moment-to-moment gameplay or areas of focus,” says one source. “Instead, he preferred to deliver buzzword-laden rambles… It was not uncommon for him to communicate in onomatopoeia.&quot;I once saw him looking over the shoulder of a programmer at some bit of User Interface the poor guy had hacked together. He straightened up, put fingers to lips and said, ‘No, this isn&apos;t it at all. Make it more...psssshhhh’ He hissed on his fucking fingertips, like the air coming out of a bicycle tire, and then just walked away.”A blame cultureFormer staff claim that the management team charged with creative oversight on WoD did not accept responsibility for the increasingly chaotic game development. “When things started turning sour in 2010, it was categorically not the fault of management, executive or creative,&quot; said another source. &quot;The line employees were blamed.&quot;One email sent on the eve of the company&apos;s 2010 team-building trip stated that all teams had to work through the weekend - and that this necessary overtime was the fault of the teams, that it was their failure to plan and scope their project accordingly. Never mind that management insisted on changing requirements and designs on a weekly basis, without pushing the schedule out to accommodate the changes.”Design meetings were decidedly robust affairs. Lead designers piled into what was known as “The Sweaty Room” and yelled at one another. “It was very alpha-male, whoever shouted longest and hardest would dominate the meetings,” recalls one developer. “This didn&apos;t seem to spill out into the rest of the project until later.”Budgeting problemsThe budget for the game was also affected by the lack of oversight. While no one interviewed for this article was in a position to quote exact numbers, all were under the impression that CCP dealt with one unified research and development fund, rather than allocating money by project. Former staff claim this explains why teams shifted regularly between WoD and Eve.CCP lusted for relevance, the expectation that it should do more than its peers. It constantly attempted to recreate the buzz that followed a favourable article in the New York TimesThis unusual state of affairs meant that any development on WoD was extremely reliant on the success of CCP’s other projects. When it was just WoD and Eve, WoD development could be theoretically funded indefinitely without much worry. This remained true even as Eve’s subscription rates appeared to plateau, becoming more reliant on players with multiple accounts. The sensible thing would have been to concentrate on Eve, while settling on a single vision for WoD in an attempt to get the latter out the door.That wasn’t how things turned out. Spurred by Eve’s status as a unique brand in the MMO space, CCP developed an odd internal corporate culture which insisted on what CCP refers to as a &quot;War on the Impossible&quot;, an idea that the company should do more and expect more than its peers in the industry. This mission became tangled up with what Nick Blood calls CCP’s “lusts for relevance” - its constant attempts to recreate the buzz that followed a favourable article in the New York Times. There was a growing sense of hubris.Dust to dustBut the company’s ambitions grew. In August 2009, CCP announced Dust 514, a multiplayer shooter for the Playstation 3 which was set in the Eve universe. Players would even be able to affect the main Eve Online universe via their planetary battles in the console spin-off. It was a hugely innovative endeavour and once again, staff were pulled off World of Darkness to help deliver on the promises.When Dust was finally released, however, reviews generally praised the concept, but savaged the well below par execution. It flopped.The beginning of the end for WoD predictably didn’t have anything to do with that project at all. In June of 2011, CCP launched Incarna, one of Eve’s regular expansions. Incarna was primarily focused on allowing players to interact with the world as their character avatars, rather than just their ships, for the first time.Without the time or resources to properly do so, many things were left half-delivered, to be iterated upon later – which never happened. CCP has an extensive track record of promising to return to features and never doing soOne of the key new additions was the “Captains Quarters”, which allowed your avatar to leave their craft and wander around a limited section of the game’s space stations. The system was underpinned by CCP’s Carbon framework, a technology designed to allow the sharing of code between games; this would facilitate the transfer of WoD’s character movement technology to the Eve project.But development of Incarna was not going smoothly. “As little as a few weeks out from launch, the lead designers were still trying to add features to the Captain’s Quarters,” says Blood. “But without the time or resources to properly do so, many things were left half-delivered, to be iterated upon later – which never happened. CCP has an extensive track record of promising to return to features and never doing so. There was little discipline to the process.”Worst of all, according to Blood, the entire point of the expansion (walking around space stations) was let down by the Reykjavic office’s art team; it took them nearly the entire development time to create one faction’s Captains Quarters. Yet again, the WoD team was asked to cross over in order to bail out an Eve expansion.Our sources say it took them a fraction of the time to create the one room station interiors for the other three factions. Blood recalls the friction between the teams on this point. “While it certainly vindicated the WoD artists in terms of work ethic, I remember it was a sore point between the offices that the much vaunted Icelandic crew had been so demonstrably shown up.”Microtransactions and &apos;monocle-gate&apos;The development difficulties were only part of the Incarna problem. According to sources, CCP management had decided to introduce microtransactions, unbeknownst to most of the rank and file, charging real money for cosmetic items with which to customise character avatars. This is a familiar feature in online games, but usually a new outfit for a player character will cost $15-20. CCP decided to charge much more. The most notorious example was a monocle costing $70. The price tag infuriated fans kick-starting amajor pricing controversythat would go on to become known as Monocle-gate.The CEO had members of the fiction writing team put the apology together - he was either so out of touch, so arrogant, that he couldn’t find the words himselfThe management response was elusive. In June 2011, senior producer Arnar Gylfason deliveredan ambiguous statement, comparing the pixelated monocles to $1000 jeans and questioning whether people should buy clothes in real life at all. Eve subscriptions declined sharply and precipitously, and there were actual in-game riots in protest.Eventually CEO Hilmar Veigar Pétursson issued an apology to the players. But even this short appeasement wasn’t what it seemed; according to Blood, Petursson didn’t actually write it.“He had members of our storyline team – a group responsible for writing in-game content and fiction – put it together,” he says. “He was either so out of touch, so arrogant, or perhaps both, that he couldn’t find the words to say himself. They bailed him out big time.”Darkness descendsEven after Monoclegate blew over and CCP backed away from the cash shop, the bugs in Incarna remained. The main feature, the Captain’s Quarters, just didn’t work very well. It was buggy and a major system drag, killing performance on older computers. Eventually, CCP added an option to disable the feature entirely.The damage was done. The subscription numbers would eventually rebound, but player trust in CCP was strained. As WoD dragged on with its constant reboots, as Eve Online began to decline in the wake of Incarna, as Dust sucked the oxygen out of the development process, even the high end employee benefits, the main selling point for American CCP employees, began to disappear.&quot;In Atlanta, the first benefit – the cantina – has been dramatically cut with no compensatory salary increase,” says Blood. “Meals used to be a fantastic benefit, and even included dinners at one point, but the ‘culture of frugality’ as they put it, has resulted in cut after cut and the current quality is simply not worth the lowered salary. The medical benefits have similarly been cut. Previously CCP had a very good coverage plan, but they swapped that out in 2011, and again in 2012, for plans with less coverage options. Again, there was no commensurate increase in salaries to make this loss up.”Late 2011 spelled the real end of WoD as a viable project. CCP had to shed costs and 20 percent of its overall workforce was laid off, with the bulk of the cuts coming from Atlanta. WoD was slated to continue, according to the press release, but “with a significantly reduced team.”Shockingly, given the turmoil, a flythrough video for WoD was released at Fanfest 2012, CCP’s annual fan convention. At barely over one minute long, it showed an impressive grasp of the World of Darkness universe – but it also displayed no moving NPCs or collision, the hallmarks of a developed product. Reviews were predictably mixed. Plenty of fans expected things to begin to look up from there; the video was proof that something was being worked on. Lots of others, particularly those with experience in the industry, sensed smoke and mirrors.This was the last the general public were ever to see of WoD. Behind the scenes, morale was shot. A source who was in the Reykjavik office at the time recalls, “The 2011 layoffs incited a lot of anger. A lot. I heard it was worse in the ATL office, and most of the folks I know down there have never forgiven CCP&apos;s management.” CCP announced a fourth project, a game for the Oculus Rift tentatively titled Valkyrie. This stretched resources even further. Even staff with secure positions began to leave for other studios or to get out of the industry altogether.And so it went. Fifteen more employees werelet go from the Atlanta officein late 2013. Then finally in mid-April 2014, the World of Darkness MMO was canceled, with 56 redundancies – among them numerous staff who had been with White Wolf for 20 years.The Guardian approached CCP for comment on the details this feature and were directed tothe company&apos;s statementon the closure of World of Darkness. We then contacted the company&apos;s US PR department again, detailing the specific allegations, and received no response.As a bizarre postscript to the saga, the Georgia state legislature announced a fresh round of tax cuts for the video game industry within hours of the official announcement of WoD’s cancellation. It was, perversely, a fitting conclusion: a tax incentive meant to reward and spur job growth in an industry notorious for shock layoffs, while what was clearly the state’s video game studio crown jewel was announcing a new bout of job cuts.The industry that closed its eyesPerhaps the real scandal is that there’s nothing truly unusual about what happened here. Earlier this year, Disney announced 700 job cuts, many from its casual games division; Sony Santa Monica made redundancies, Irrational Games shut down. Partly it’s the economy, of course, but a lot of it is just down to the games industry not functioning as well as it should, on outdated production methods and sky high budgets.In the US, for example, video game company layoffs are twice the national average. “GameJobWatch tracked 73 layoffs in the first ten months of 2013, totalling more than 3400 jobs lost, not including studios among those 73 that they didn&apos;t have a head count for. That&apos;s almost two studios with layoffs each week,&quot; said Darius Kazemi, a former developer and once a board member for the IGDA.“A layoff-heavy strategy means that people burn out of the business quickly. Last I heard the average time spent in games is seven years. You get tired of being treated that way and you realise that you can probably work somewhere else doing more boring work and get a lot more money and stability. Or you try your hand at going independent, where the odds are low but at least you control your own destiny.&quot;When experienced people leave the industry entirely, we lose institutional memory. Our games stagnate. I think AAA is in extended death throes. I think it&apos;s going to look like the comics industry in a few years: a couple of huge corporations that dominate the mainstream attention, and then an enormous number of very small indies. Actually, it looks like that today.”Speaking to Rock Paper Shotgunduring the annual Eve Fanfest in May, CCP CEO Hilmar Veigar Pétursson, showed some acknowledgement of the company’s mistakes over the past few years. “I would say we’re re-focusing on simpler strategies and smaller teams,” he said. “I think that helped make us successful: EVE was made like that. And maybe we scaled up our teams and our ambitions too rapidly.”But for the staff we spoke to it’s too late. Only one remains in the industry, working as a designer at a small studio. The others left or were made redundant.“I wasn&apos;t laid off,” points out Blood at the end of our interview. “I left voluntarily, out of disappointment at what the industry is increasingly becoming.”He has no intention of returning.•EVE Online fanfest: the party at the top of the world
Adverts in search engines have &quot;no measurable benefits&quot; to the advertiser, researchers at eBay claimin a paperpublished in conjunction with Berkeley and Chicago universities.The auction site gave its own researcher Thomas Blakey, as well as Chicago&apos;s Chris Nosko and Berkeley&apos;s Steven Tadelis, the ability to experiment with how and when the company bought search adverts.The researchers found that most search adverts on most search terms had very little affect on sales at all – and warn that the medium may be &quot;beyond the peak of its efficacy.&quot;Many companies buy adverts on searches for their brand. eBay, for instance, may buy adverts on searches for the term &quot;eBay&quot;, as well as for terms such as &quot;eBay shoes&quot;. But confirming what customers have long suspected, those adverts do little other than encourage users to click on the advert where they would otherwise have clicked on the normal search result to the same site.&quot;The results show that almost all of the forgone click traffic and attributed sales were captured by natural search,&quot; the researchers found.&quot;That is, substitution between paid and unpaid traffic was nearly complete. Shutting off paid search ads closed one (costly) path to a company&apos;s website but diverted traffic to natural search, which is free to the advertiser.&quot;Generic search results do betterThe researchers had slightly better news for advertisers who buy space on search results for generic terms, such as &quot;memory&quot;, &quot;cell phone&quot; or &quot;used gibson les paul&quot;.&quot;Unlike branded search, where a firm&apos;s website is usually in the top organic search slot, organic placement for non-branded terms vary widely,&quot; meaning that a site can&apos;t guarantee it will show up on the front page for a search term unless it pays.But the researchers wanted to test whether dropping off the front page for generic terms actually matters to sales.Working with eBay, they stopped advertising entirely on non-branded search terms to 30% of the US for a period of 60 days, and found that it had &quot;a very small and statistically insignificant effect on sales… on average, US consumers do not shop more on eBay when they are exposed to paid search ads.&quot;eBay customers &apos;unaffected by the presence of paid search advertising&apos;Looking further, they found that the ads did have an affect on a subset of eBay users: those who had only just signed up for an account, or who had made fewer than three transactions.&quot;Consumers who have completed at least three eBay transactions in the year before our experiment are likely to be familiar with eBay&apos;s offerings and value proposition, and are unaffected by the presence of paid search advertising,&quot; they conclude.The findings raise significant questions about the value of the search advertising market.&quot;Of the $31.7bn that was spent in the US in 2011 on internet advertising, estimates project that the top 10 spenders in this channel account for about $2.36bn… our study suggests that much of what is spent on internet advertising may be beyond the peak of its efficacy.&quot;Google is the biggest seller of search adverts in the world. In 2013, the company made $37bn from its various websites, a full two thirds of its gross revenue. The company doesn&apos;t break down revenue beyond that, but it is believed that the majority of its income comes from search advertising.•UK data watchdog considering eBay investigation over cyberattack
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamIntents, Contracts, and App Extensions: app-to-app communication in Android, Windows Phone and iOS 8 &gt;&gt; Microsoft blogsHelpful outline from Sasha Goldshetein:Let's now consider a few scenarios and see how they can be handled by the various platforms. But first, how do users gain access to code that provides these extension points? On all three platforms, extensions ship as part of an app, which can provide share targets, a document source, a home screen widget, and so on. After installing an app, the setup steps for enabling the extension depend on the extension kind — for example, sharing to a new app doesn't require explicit configuration, but putting a new widget on your home screen typically requires explicit user consent.Notable how iOS treats processor time (and so battery power) as precious.The trouble with IBM &gt;&gt; BusinessweekWhen the CIA turned down a cheaper offer from IBM to build a $600m cloud service in favour of Amazon, IBM protested and took the matter to court. Bad move:A federal judge agreed, ruling in October that with the "overall inferiority of its proposal," IBM "lacked any chance of winning" the contract. The corporate cliché of the 1970s and '80s, that no one ever got fired for buying IBM, had never seemed less true. IBM withdrew its challenge.No single deal encapsulates a 103-year-old company with a market capitalization of $185bn. But the CIA butt kicking is a microcosm of larger problems IBM is having as it struggles to adapt to the cloud era, in which clients large and small rent technology cheaply over the Internet instead of buying costly fixed arrays. Under [chief executive Virginia] Rometty's leadership, revenue has declined for eight consecutive quarters, a period when most of corporate America has flourished. In January, after a year in which IBM was the only company in the Dow Jones industrial average whose shares lost value, Rometty and her top executives turned down their annual bonuses, worth in her case as much as $8 million. (Rometty, 56, who goes by Ginni, declined to be interviewed for this article.)Long. Worthwhile. Unsettling.Robot truck convoy tested In Nevada &gt;&gt; Popular ScienceLike Olympic skiers racing in single file to reduce air resistance,  two 18-wheeler trucks in Nevada recently proved that uncomfortably close convoys can save drivers fuel and money. The key, instead of bold Olympic athleticism, is robotic assistance. A computer-assisted truck was able to follow closely behind a human-driven truck perfectly, maintaining exactly 33 feet of distance between the vehicles. The promise is a future of safer, more fuel efficient, and more robotic trucking.As you'll have guessed, the technology comes from a company in Silicon Valley - calledPeloton.Family sharing brings useful new features to iOS 8 &gt;&gt; PadGadgetSharing content is just one part of this new feature set. You can also use a bigger version of Find My Phone, with all users on a single map. Tracking children as they grow into teenagers and being able to manage their devices is a very nice touch.If a child wants to buy a song or an app, then they can request access to the family credit card which sends a request to mom or dad for approval. This is so much easier than having to be there at the device to enter passwords with the kids asking for new stuff.Perhaps the most used new feature is going to be the family shared calendar, which brings everything into a shared space for planning and organization. If you kids are as busy as mine then a shared space for tracking everything is critical. We manage right now, but this is going to make it even easier.Reaction of my (Samsung-using) cab driver in San Francisco, who was asking about iOS 8, to the calendar-sharing feature: "Man, Android SO needs to get that."Apple should buy Broadcom's cellular baseband business &gt;&gt; Counterpoint TechnologyNeil Shah:While R&amp;D and integration would be tough initially, Apple has deep pockets to develop and integrate its own top-notch LTE capabilities into the products over the period of next two years. This could mean Apple will have to depend less on suppliers such as Qualcomm and can control its own roadmap by working closely with global carriers to shape its own product-cycles. Cellular IP is one weapon missing in Apple's arsenal which it will like to acquire as mobile is the future and will power every other device.Broadcom is looking tosell or shut its cellular baseband business. Apple already owns a chip design business, PA Semi, bought in 2006.How Radioactive is Our Ocean? &gt;&gt; Center for Marine and Environmental RadiationThe lack of cesium-134, which only has a two-year half life for radioactive decay, indicates that none of the Fukushima contaminants have reached the US west coast sampling sites. Therefore, continued support for monitoring is needed as the cesium isotopes are expected to reach the coast in 2014 and levels are predicted to increase over the coming 2-3 years.Not clear by how it'll rise, or whether that's at all dangerous.Environment Agency open data - next steps &gt;&gt; Acorn InformationEnvironment Agency announcement:We recently announced the permanent access to live flood warnings, flood alerts and river levels as Open Data.We are now expanding that commitment to include publishing as much of our data as possible, including flood data, as Open Data. This means that over time more of our data will be made available for free to developers, technology companies and individuals.In order to help our transition to Open Data we are setting up a user group to advise us on which of our data it is most important to concentrate on making Open.Good news.Twitter weighs online music acquisitionsTwitter has considered buying online music services including Soundcloud and Spotify in recent months – a move that suggests it is willing to attempt its largest acquisition to secure new sources of growth.The online messaging platform has weighed up deals worth billions of dollars as it seeks to add a music service to its offering, according to three people familiar with the matter.Twitter has been trying to boost the amount of time people spend on its app, after coming under fire from Wall Street for slowing user growth, report Hannah Kuchler, Arash Massoudi and Tim Bradshaw.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
Microsoft’s top lawyer on Wednesday called upon the US government to act on “unfinished business” a year after the Guardian and the Washington Post first broke news of the extent of the National Security Agency’s cyber-spying operations.In an oftentoughly-worded blogpost, Microsoft general counsel Brad Smith set out five areas where he believes the government needs to take more action in the wake of Edward Snowden’s revelations. While there had been some “initial positive reforms,” Smith said, “the reality is clear. The US government needs to address important unfinished business to reduce the technology trust deficit it has created.”Snowden’s revelations had shown that the government was “not just seeking a relatively small amount of content” via legal orders, said Smith.“It’s now apparent that the government intercepted data in transit across the internet and hacked links between company data centres. These disclosures rightly have prompted a vigorous debate over the extent and scope of government surveillance, leading to some positive changes. But much more needs to be done.“With the advent of mobile devices and cloud services, technology has never been more powerful or more personal. But as I encountered in virtually every meeting during a recent trip to Europe, as well as discussions with others from around the world, people have real questions and concerns about how their data are protected.&quot;These concerns have real implications for cloud adoption. After all, people won’t use technology they don’t trust. We need to strike a better balance between privacy and national security to restore trust and uphold our fundamental liberties,” he wrote.Smith said the US should:• recognize that US search warrants end at US borders.The top Microsoft lawyer said his company was concerned about governmental attempts to use search warrants to force companies to turn over the contents of non-US customer communications that are stored exclusively outside the United States.“The US government wouldn’t stand for other governments seeking to serve search warrants within American borders to seize the content of US citizens’ emails without going through US legal process. Why should it expect other governments to react any differently?” he wrote.• end bulk collection of data.In March, President Barack Obama proposed tto end the NSA’s bulk collection of phone records in the US, limit future collections and hand over the task to telecoms companies. Smith said Microsoft had never received a bulk order but he believes the USA Freedom Act should be strengthened “to prohibit more clearly any such orders in the future.”• reform the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (Fisa) court.The FISA courtoversees requests for surveillance warrants made by the NSA. It acts in private. Smith said the court needed to be more open and to introduce “the adversarial process that is the hallmark of a fair judicial system.”“There remains a fundamental truth about legal disputes: a judge who hears only one side of a case is less likely to render a just result. Congress needs to recognize and act on the need for FISA Court reform,” he wrote.• commit not to hack data centres or cables.As first revealed by The Washington Post, the NSA has hacked into tech firms’ systems by accessing cables outside their buildings. Google, Microsoft, Yahoo and others have since gone on to encrypt more of their data in order to thwart such attacks but “more than seven months” on “the executive branch remains silent about its views of this practice,” Smith wrote. “Shouldn’t a government that prosecutes foreigners who hack into US companies stop its own employees from hacking into such businesses? Why must we continue to wait for an assurance on this issue?”• continue to increase transparency.“Earlier this year, we won the right to publish important data on the number of national security-related demands that we receive. This helped to provide a broader understanding of the overall volume of government orders. It was a good step, but we believe even more detail can be provided without undermining national security,” wrote Smith.Smith said an “international effort” was needed to restore trust and “strike the right balance between privacy and security”. He said Microsoft was pushing for an international legal framework to protect privacy online.“The US has both a responsibility and an opportunity to show new leadership on these issues. It was 225 years ago this Sunday that James Madison stood up in the first Congress and proposed the Bill of Rights, including what became the fourth amendment to our constitution. He built on English law and colonial experience to preserve for future generations the right of people to be secure from unreasonable government searches.&quot;But by definition it is up to our own generation to preserve this fundamental constitutional protection. The advance of technology makes these issues even more important. Now is the time to act,” wrote Smith.Microsoft was one of the companies named in Snowden’s documentsas having worked closely with the NSA to circumvent encryption on its users&apos; communications. The agency also boasted of tripling the amount of data it was collecting from Microsoft-owned Skype video calls. Microsoft said at the time that it cooperated only when legally compelled.On Thursday, companies including Reddit, Mozilla and DuckDuckGo, as well as organizations like the Electronic Frontier Foundation, Fight For the Future (FFtF) and Greenpeace are planning a day of action called Reset the Net to highlight online privacy after the Snowden revelations.Evan Greer of FFtF said: “It&apos;s clear that even the largest tech companies are responding to the blistering public outcry around surveillance and the demand for services that aggressively fight for their security and their human rights.”“Edward Snowden&apos;s bravery, real journalists&apos; reporting, and intense grassroots organizing has shifted public opinion profoundly on this topic, and created an environment where everyone wants to be on the side of privacy. That can only spell good things for the future of the internet, but it will be important in the weeks to come that we judge companies, politicians, and ourselves, by actions and not words.”
The UK government has said it wants to hand out life sentences to anyone found guilty of a cyberattack that has a catastrophic effect, under plans announced in the Queen's speech.Any hackers that manage to carry out "cyberattacks which result in loss of life, serious illness or injury or serious damage to national security, or a significant risk thereof" would face the full life sentence, according to the serious crime bill proposed in Wednesday's Queen's speech.As well as targeting cyberterrorists, the new offence in the proposed update to the Computer Misuse Act 1990 would also hand harsher sentences to those hackers carrying out industrial espionage, believed to be a growing menace affecting UK business.The law would have a maximum sentence of 14 years for attacks that create "a significant risk of severe economic or environmental damage or social disruption". Currently, the section of the CMA covering such an offence carries a 10-year sentence.Jim Killock, executive director of the Open Rights Group, said the bill would be difficult to justify, given current laws already carry punishments for those who carry out significant acts of terrorism, whether via computers or other means."If a supposed cyberterrorist endangers life or property, there are existing laws that can be used to prosecute them," Killock said.Such acts have "only been seen in Hollywood movies", said Mustafa Al-Bassam, a computer science student who was convicted under the CMA for his participation in cyberattacks on companies as part of the hacktivist collective LulzSec.The government has also not addressed complaints over the application of current computer crime law, which some in the security industry claim actually makes the internet less safe.This is because certain kinds of research could be deemed illegal. Experts known as penetration testers, who look for weaknesses in internet infrastructure, often carry out similar actions to real cybercriminals in their attempts to improve the security of the web, such as scanning for vulnerabilities.But such research is punishable under British law, even if it is carried out for altruistic ends, leaving potential weaknesses unresolved, critics of the CMA said.Any researchers looking for the recent Heartbleed bug, which left a vast number of websites open to attack, could have been charged under British hacking laws, said Trey Ford, global security strategist at penetration testing firm Rapid7. "It's concerning that the law designed to protect people from cybercrime also penalises activity designed to identify areas of cyber risk," he said.There are similar fears over in the US, where researchers recently told the Guardian they had been threatened with indictment for their own security tests.Yet some have been encouraged by the wording of the serious crime bill, which noted the update to the CMA would "ensure sentences for attacks on computer systems fully reflect the damage they cause"."It's good to see government trying to be proactive to put specific law enforcement tools in place before they're needed, but they should be careful to not accidentally criminalise good faith efforts," said Beau Woods, a security expert from the digital public safety organisation I Am The Cavalry.Simon Placks, head of cybercrime investigations at consultancy EY, added: "Any move towards tougher sentencing for cybercriminals is a move in the right direction, and will be welcomed by businesses."
Business networking site LinkedIn has said it will stop users seeing content posted from China that breaches the country's strict censorship laws, after members complained that posts related to the Tiananmen anniversary had been blanked out.LinkedIn is one of the few foreign social media services accessible from mainland China – where Facebook, YouTube, Twitter and others are blocked – and launched a Chinese-language service earlier this year, but does not have servers on the mainland.Its decision goes beyond Beijing's requirements to restrict what users in China see and effectively exports some Chinese controls on content, though a spokesman said it was intended to protect users.Artist Helen Couchman and journalist Fergus Ryan both reported receiving messages warning them that items they had posted would not be seen by LinkedIn members as they "contained content prohibited in China".Couchman, who lived in China for several years, said the decision to block articles she had shared about detained artist Guo Jian was outrageous. "I wasn't even sharing an opinion," she added.Guo, who has Australian citizenship, was taken away by police in Beijing shortly after the publication of an interview in which he described participating in 1989's pro-democracy protests in Tiananmen Square and discussed a work he had created commemorating the bloody crackdown.Ryan said in an article for theChina Spectatorsite, for which he reports from China, that he too had posted pieces about Guo.Roger Pua, director of corporate communications in the Asia-Pacific region for LinkedIn, said the company strongly supported freedom of expression, but added: "To create value for our members in China and around the world, we will need to implement the Chinese government's restrictions on content, when and to the extent required&nbsp;… Members in China will not be able to access content that is prohibited in China."But the site is also preventing people outside China from seeing material that censors disapprove of if it was first posted from China.Pua said: "Outside of China, members will be able to view content that is restricted in China, unless that content originated in China – this is to protect the privacy and security of the member who posted that content.""LinkedIn, by its nature, is a professional network and not prone to conversations that are political in nature. We think the impact is very, very small."While most Chinese  rely on heavily censored Chinese services – such as the Sina Weibo microblog – some, including many activists and dissidents, use VPNs or other methods to post material on Twitter and  Facebook.LinkedIn said in February that it was applying to set up operations in China, acknowledging it would need to comply with Chinese governmentdemandsto filter content.Cynthia Wong, senior internet researcher at Human Rights Watch, said that while she was not aware of the LinkedIn case, "the best practice that has emerged is that companies will not censor for the world".She added: "If there's material that needs to be taken down in one jurisdiction, competitors will leave it up for the rest of the world – precisely for the reason that we should not allow the internet to go to the lowest common denominator; it should not be scrubbed of everything bar material acceptable to the least tolerant government out there."Michael Anti, a Chinese commentator, said: "It means Linkedin now publicly accepts Chinese censorship rule for anyone who is in mainland China, without any hesitation."He compared it to Microsoft's decision toremove his Chinese-language blogin 2005 – a move that sparked international criticism.In that case, he said, "the company felt wrong and shameful. So you know how much internet freedom we have lost worldwide in the past decade."
Google has moved to encourage more people to encrypt their email, releasing source code aimed at offering an extra layer of privacy protection.The move comes as the tech giant announced its support forReset the Net, a coordinatedday of actionset for Thursday to oppose mass surveillance online.Companies including Reddit, Mozilla and DuckDuckGo, as well as the Electronic Frontier Foundation, Fight For the Future and Greenpeace are planning a day of action on Thursday. Other big names in the tech community are expected to lend their support.Other announcements similar to Google’s are expected while other sites will display information about how people can improve their online privacy.In ablogpost, Google said its data showed that approximately 40-50% of emails sent between Gmail and other email providers are not encrypted. “Many providers have turned on encryption, and others have said they’re going to, which is great news. As they do, more and more emails will be shielded from snooping,” the company said.Gmail has “always supported encryption in transit by usingTransport Layer Security(TLS), and willautomatically encryptyour incoming and outgoing emails if it can. The important thing is that both sides of an email exchange need to support encryption for it to work; Gmail can&apos;t do it alone,” said the company.For those looking for greater security Google announced the release ofEnd-to-End, an extension to its Chrome browser.End-to-end encryption offers another layer of security by encrypting data leaving a user’s browser until it is decrypted by the recipient. The service has been available for some time via tools including Pretty Good Privacy (PGP) and Gnu Privacy Guard (GnuPG), but such tools have failed to become mainstream as they require a higher level of technological know-how.Google is hoping its new Chrome service will make end-to-end encryption an easy option for its users. The service is not yet available at the Chrome web store and the company said before releasing it Google was looking for input from users to “make sure that it’s as secure as it needs to be before people start relying on it.”“Once we feel that the extension is ready for primetime, we’ll make it available in theChrome web store, and anyone will be able to use it to send and receive end-to-end encrypted emails through their existing web-based email provider,” said Google.“We recognize that this sort of encryption will probably only be used for very sensitive messages or by those who need added protection. But we hope that the End-to-End extension will make it quicker and easier for people to get that extra layer of security should they need it.”The move follows an announcement fromYahoo in Aprilthe the tech firm ultimately aims to make sure all its traffic will be encrypted by default. “The goal is all traffic to and from Yahoo users is going to be encrypted all the time by default, and invisibly. This is not going to be something you have to think about all the time,” Alex Stamos, Yahoo’s recently appointed chief information security officer, said.“Preventing surveillance of millions of people at a time is totally within our abilities.”
This week on Tech WeeklyJemima Kisssits in for Aleks Krotoski.  Jemima is joined byAlex Hern,Samuel Gibbs,Tom Brewsterand byCharles Arthurdown the line from San Francisco.The team discuss Apple's launch of the iOS8 operating system; the official warnings about the Cryptolocker ransomware virus; and what to do to protect your data from attack.Also: Charles Arthur interviewsWes Millerfrom the analystsDirections On Microsoftto find out what the future holds for this tech giant and how it plans to battle the might of Google.
It was Ridge Racer that did it. The first time a lot of people saw that early Sony PSP title, they couldn&apos;t quite believe the clarity of the visuals – it genuinely was like having a console game in the palm of your hand. While Nintendo always makes beautiful little games that fit into the fun-sized format of its miniature machines, Sony&apos;s design goal with the PSP was literally to make the PlayStation portable.Now PSP is saying goodbye. Shipments to the US ended this year, and they are closing in Japan soon. European stores will see their last arrivals toward Christmas. Launched in Japan in December 2004, it is almost 10 years old – not a bad achievement for a handheld that was almost written off early in its lifespan.Not that there was anything wrong with the design. Sharp, stylish, mature, the PSP looked like a very different proposition to the child-friendly Game Boy and Nintendo DS machines. And with its 32bit architecture and 4.3-inch widescreen display, it wanted to be seen as something serious, something you could play epic action adventures and shooters on. Something cool.The universal disc that no one wantedThere were mistakes early on. The device&apos;s properietary disc format – the Universal Media Disc (UMD) – wanted to be a sort of sequel to the mini-disc, a one-small-size-fits-all solution for games, movies and music. But it was clunky and expensive and with digital distrubution on the rise, it was never going to become a multimedia standard. Later, an attempt to cash in on the digitla market with the disc-free PSP Go failed due to a high retail price and the rather glaring lack of must-have downloadable games.Third-party support was also patchy. The console struggled withhigh piracy levelsof its titles, which meant the likes of EA, Activision and Ubisoft were reticent about committing to major development projects. However, the ease with which hackers were able to break the device&apos;s security system also meant that it became a favourite with the homebrew development scene, and amateur coders are still producing games and demos for the platform.Some look back on the machine as a failure beside the all-conquering Nintendo DS, but this is unfair. The console sold 80m units, a figure boosted by a series of excellent hardware and featureset updates, including the slimmer PSP-2000 and PSP-3000 models.And it had some wonderful games. The stylistically gorgeous Patapon, Every Extend Extra and Lumines 2; the epic Metal Gear Solid Peace Walker and God of War: Chains of Olympus; the eye-scorching WipEout Pulse. Perhaps most important though was Monster Hunter, Capcom&apos;s phenominally successful creature collection game that had huge gangs of Japanese school kids meeting up in parks to trade and fight monsters via local area network play. The publisher even opened atemporary gathering placefor Monster Hunter fans in London.The first second screenMostly, PSP changed the way people thought about handheld machines, in a way that Sega&apos;s Game Gear and Atari&apos;s Lynx had tried and failed. It brought home console visuals and game design approaches to the small screen; it wasn&apos;t a family plaything, it was a serious piece of consumer electronics kit. It could play movies and music, store photos, surf the web, get on Wi-Hi and ad-hoc networks – it hinted at a featureset that would eventually become habitual with smartphones.It was also very serious about Remote Play – the idea of connecting game experiences between the portable console and the home machine. True, very few games actually ended up suporting the concept, but it hinted at an era in which &quot;second-screen&quot; entertainment would become a buzzword. It set in place the platform that would later allow the much smoother integration between PS4 and PS Vita.So long PSP. We&apos;ll always have Half-Minute Hero, Tactics Ogre, Valkyria Chronicles II and GTA: Vice City Stories. They cannot take LittleBigPlanet or LocoRoco 2. They cannot take that moment of loading up the otherwise unexceptional Ridge Racer and seeing the cars zoom, not into a cartoon DS landscape, but into a gloating sun that cast its rays out among the deftly textured hillsides – much to the momentary astonishment of gamers everywhere.•Will Candy Crush fans find a new fix with Bubble Witch Saga 2?
Facebook has moved to assuage fears that its new &quot;audio recognition&quot; feature is not snooping on users and does not record conversations.The feature is used to identify television programmes and music tracks, mirroring the functionality of apps like Shazam or Soundhound, but does so automatically while users are writing a status update in Facebook’s Android or iPhone app.&quot;The microphone doesn&apos;t turn itself on, it will ask for permission,&quot; said Gregg Stefancik, Facebook’s head of security infrastructuretalking to journalists in Australia. &quot;It&apos;s not always listening... so it&apos;s very limited in what it is sampling.”The recognition feature is only available for users in the US and was announced at theend of May.&apos;The raw audio never leaves the phone&apos;Stefancik stressed that it is an opt-in feature and that it will not listen for audio automatically unless the feature is enabled in the Facebook app’s settings.The Facebook app creates an “audio fingerprint” of the background sounds as a user types a status update, which is then compared with Facebook’s database of music and television shows. If a match is made Facebook notifies the user and gives them the option of adding the matched song or programme to their status post.&quot;The user is in complete control and the audio fingerprint that we&apos;ve received is disposed of immediately,” stressed Stefancik. “The raw audio never leaves the phone and the data about the match is only stored if you choose to post it.&quot;The fact that a match has been made is logged, but no information about the user or the audio recorded is kept.The app states that “we can’t identify background noise and conversation” before the feature is enabled and that “sounds are only used to find a match and are never stored.”&quot;I wouldn&apos;t want this in my pocket either if it was recording everything going on around me,” said Stefancik.&apos;Working aggressively to encrypt all data&apos;Facebook is also attempting to protect user privacy from government and third-party surveillance by making all of its communications secure and encrypted.&quot;We&apos;ve prioritised encrypting the traffic that is most sensitive at Facebook, and we&apos;re working aggressively to get to the point where we can tell you we&apos;ll have it all encrypted between datacentres,” Stefancik said.Stefancik said that the NSA revelations by Edward Snowden &quot;validated a lot of the things we knew we needed to protect against” and said that the company had been working on encrypting data and its transit across the internet before Snowden’s leaks but that it was hard to make work in all situations where Facebook is used.&quot;It&apos;s not like we wake up one morning and flip a switch. It has performance implications, there&apos;s still compatibility issues between devices,” he said.Stefancik stressed that Facebook would resist attempts to release encrypted user data to authorities, which the Australian government has proposed that Facebook and other social networks should be legally required to do.&quot;Handing over encryption keys is something that we would fight,&quot; he said.•Amazon and Snapchat rank low for protecting user data from government, but Facebook ‘has your back’ according to the EFF•Facebook relents and beefs up default privacy settings for new users• This article was amended on 4/06/2014 to clarify that matches are logged.
