I only caught a smidgen of Radio 4's latest attempt to make Stephen Fry's name synonymous with technology - an Archive Hour special last Saturday that looked back on the Millennium Bug (calledIn the Beginning was the Nerd).But last week the Radio 4 blog teased the broadcast byhelpfully including the long version of an interviewwith Ross Anderson from Cambridge University, a security expert who rarely minces his words and essentially says that it was all a big swindle.Now, I don't know much about the ins and outs of the way the Y2K bug was reported (I was still in short trousers at the time) but the programme no doubt stirred up some deeply felt sentiments:  the comments thread on the blog post certainly contain a lot of disagreement.Accurate? Misleading? Did Radio 4 capture the history correctly?
&bull; Monday morning kicks off a week that will see the launch of Windows Mobile 6.5 - also known asWindows Phone. It's Microsoft's attempt to get back on track in the mobile market, and we looked at theprospects for its phone business a couple of months ago, but the proof of the pudding - as always - is in the eating. Will it be enough to get you to pick a Windows handset?&bull; Plenty of people rightly respect Apple-centric bloggerJohn Gruberfor his smart observations and predictions about the company. More evidence of his influence?A one-line notethat we might see "all-new Blu-ray-equipped iMacs"made news itself- until heretracted the mention of Blu-ray, that is. Still, looks like there's some new Apple stuff on the way before Christmas.&bull; A couple of weeks ago I pointed to aterrific rantby entrepreneurJason Friedagainst the tendency of dotcoms to raise venture money and then sell to anyone who'll pay. This weekend investor and former PayPal executiveDave McClurefired back with his own strongly-worded riposte. It'll probably wake you up if your coffee hasn't already - the language is definitely not safe for work - but it's certainly a robust argument for why startups should sell out early if they want to.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Mazda MX-5£16,345Miles per gallon: 40.4CO2 per km: 167 gramsGood for: lonely heartsBad for: heart painsBumping into a college friend the other day, he introduced me to his wife as "a mate from the 80s". It made me feel like a washed-up traveller from some bygone era; an age of bad taste and bandanas, of leg warmers and slogan T-shirts (yes, it's true, the "Stayin' alive in 85" tee has seen better days). It made me feel dizzy I'd grown so old so quick – and without really noticing. The same can't be said of Mazda's MX-5. The happy chappy of two-seat, thrill-filled, uncomplicated motoring may be 20 this year, but it doesn't seem to have aged at all. Incredibly, it has collected more than 178 motoring awards in that time and its perfect combination of simplicity, sweet handling and everyday usability has won over more hearts than a decade's worth of Soul Mate adverts. It's easily the world's bestselling roadster (it even has a listing in theGuinness Book of Records) and in the next year or so the millionth vehicle will be sold. But the real miracle of the MX-5 is that in all these years, its basic DNA hasn't changed at all. It is still what it always was – a gorgeous little car.The first Mazda MX-5, which is also sometimes called the Miata, arrived in Britain in March 1990 – a few months after it had been unveiled in Chicago. It cost £14,925. Today, the entry-level version costs £16,340. This latest model, which is actually the fourth generation of the car, has been launched to help celebrate the car's 20th anniversary. And I was lucky enough to get to drive one over a long weekend in the Highlands of Scotland. A high risk for the PR team you would have thought – the main reason we all yearn to drive soft-top roadsters is to soak up the sun, and Scottish sunshine is normally measured in pints. But over the course of three glorious days I didn't once close the roof – clearly God is an MX-5 fan, too.Testing our powers of observation, we were presented with a dozen original MX-5s to drive. These were not concourse-level cars preserved in aspic, but were all cars that had been bought from around the country in private sales and forecourts for between two and three grand. They'd been given the once-over, brakes replaced, cloth roofs patched and a dab of oil on the suspension, but other than that they were allowed to make the point themselves. Twenty years is clearly not a long time in Mazdaland. The cars were full of charm and, as we headed off in a red, white and blue convoy to tackle the Bealach na Ba (Pass of the Cattle) on the Applecross peninsula – one of the highest drivable roads in the UK – the cars flung themselves at the switchback corners testing their brakes and our nerves, but came through unscathed.  Not bad for a bunch of 20-year-olds with almost a million miles between them.For the drive home we swapped into the new Mark 4s: cleaner, greener, safer, quieter, faster. They had folding metal roofs, sleek headlamps and an automatic paddle-shift gear box. Cupholders, stereos and bigger boots. A better car? On balance yes, but still that old mate from the 80s…★martin.love@observer.co.uk
The first three blockbusting Halo games featured the Master Chief, a soldier empowered by one-of-a-kind battle armour that made him faster, stronger and more resilient than the average GI to being repeatedly shot. This time you are that average GI, an Orbital Drop Shock Trooper, whose maiden mission into the ruins of New Mombasa sees him separated from his squad, trawling for evidence, each piece of which triggers a level. Originally planned as an expansion pack, ODST's single-player campaign takes around six hours to complete if you're not in a hurry. That time will be spent in the grip of perfect martial bliss, the like of which  has not been seen since Halo 3 or Modern Warfare. The rest of the package includes non-stop survival mode Firefight and every Halo 3 multiplayer map so far released along with new ones. It also promises entry into the beta-test period of Halo: Reach – the coming true Halo sequel – at some point next year. Compared with the fabulous generosity of Grand Theft Auto IV's multiple expansions,  this kitchen-sink package feels contrived to sustain its price tag, although lovers of online deathmatches should by now be treasuring a copy.Microsoft, £39.99
Tower defence games involve strategically positioning and then upgrading a set of turrets to repel waves of invaders by channelling them through an increasingly devastating maze of guns. While the iPhone is by no means understaffed in this genre, geoDefense: Swarm distinguishes itself with pulsing neon-lit graphics reminiscent of shooty Xbox Live Arcade favourite Geometry Wars, and a level structure that breaks the game into little puzzle-orientated chunks rather than the half-hour slogs that proficiency earns you in most of its competitors. Don't be fooled, though; even easy levels require very particular tactics to emerge victorious. Absorbing, tricky and rewarding, Swarm is a gentle breath of fresh air in a crowded market.Critical Thought Games, 59p
A sandwich needn't merely be two slices of bread divided by some cheese and pickle; it can be a work of art or a food sculpture that will blow your mind. That's the thinking behind this pictorial wonderland of "insane sandwich fun", where bread-based wonders from the world's smallest pastrami sandwich to a "cordless mousewich with USB cheese stick" await. Submit your own artistic combos and you could be voted Sandwich Of The Month – although you'll have to think outside of the box to beat the likes of a "Molecular Sandwich" that connects balls of bread, salami and cheese in atomic style (with the help of plastic straws) and a nice little submarine car with tomato slice wheels. Think on, so-called Prêt A Manger.
At its twitchy, frenetic heart, Need For Speed: Shift's handling model leads to thrilling races and conveys a palpable sensation of speed and jarring impacts with cars and track-side decoration. In true Need For Speed style, its spongey, drift-happy steering has as much in common with real driving as Five Alive has with the contents of a fruit.Earning profile points for accuracy as well as aggressive overtaking and nudging others off the track, you level up in a system designed to festoon you with gifts and unlockables, lest the ennui between races becomes too much. Aping last year's Race Driver: GRID but lacking its pace, subtlety and precision, it's also stripped of the series' usual car-modifying frippery and police chases. What remains can't compete with Forza 3, Gran Turismo 5 or DiRT 2.Electronic Arts, £39.99
At IAmA – an incredible corner of the social news website Reddit – people, hiding behind online anonymity, submit themselves to the masses and invite them to "ask me anything". They range from the mundane ("I work at a small scale hardware store") to the bizarre ("I'm a medieval times princess") to the incredible. One recent interviewee was the winner of $30m on the lottery and fielded hundreds of questions ranging from "Do you get up earlier?" to the intricacies of what it's like managing vast wealth (he bought some dinosaur bones). Prey to plenty of hoaxers, the site is still great sport for internet rubberneckers.
How much would it cost you to get 300 CDs' worth of music? In a shop, about £3,000 – but the Swedish music streaming site Spotify is promising to give the same amount for only £10 a month.Spotify, which has more than five million users in Europe alone, lets people listen to an online catalogue of 6m tracks for free – but with adverts between tracks – or, for a small fee, will remove the ads for uninterrupted listening.This week, it announced the launch of an "offline" service for customers who pay a monthly subscription. This will allow them to store up to 3,333 tracks on their computers, iPhones or Google Android mobile phones.Buying these tracks outright would be enormously expensive – but "premium" subscribers to the service can store them, and change the mix of tracks, for as long as they keep paying. Even so, persuading people to sign up to an ongoing subscription is not easy. Both Napster and Real Networks have tried without success to break through the traditional distrust of "rental music", noted Mark Mulligan, a music analyst at the research company Forrester."Napster, Rhapsody and Yahoo! all failed to break the million paying subscribers mark," he said."If Spotify can break the magic million mark, and even better, in Europe, then we can start talking about Spotify having made subscriptions work for the industry. For Spotify's own business needs though, they probably only need to number their premium subscribers in hundreds of thousands."The British Phonographic Industry, which represents the interests of the major record labels, said that it had not "formulated a position" on Spotify's new offering.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?I work a lot with my computer. Being a musician and director it is really useful for my job, it gives me total control on everything – recording, mixing, editing etc.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I'm using it, right now, responding to your questions!What additional features would you add if you could?Maybe a time-transporting function. Touring with my band, Tiromancino, is very tiring … too many kilometresDo you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?In technology terms, 10 years is a huge distance. With the pace of chance at the moment, I can't begin to imagine what is going to happen in such a long time.What always frustrates you about technology in general?Too much technology can be dangerous. The risk is that you become driven by it, losing a bit of your personality and your sense of direction. My advice is to use it, not to be used by it.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I hate my mobile, it is stressing my life!If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Sincerely, I'm a real bad driver, as my wife always reminds me. So my Tom-Tom has become my new best friend.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm perfectly in the middle. With some oscillations torward both sides.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Me and my brother own a music recording studio. We have several really expensive pieces of technologyMac or PC, and why?I always have had a Mac, I feel comfortable with it.  It's fast and much more logical than a PC.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I'm one of those dinosaurs who still buys CDs and DVDs. Am I insane? Recently I'm kind of feeling this way. I last bought an iPhone, as a treat for my dad.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Why not? Great idea. It reminds me a bit of Star Wars.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Definitely a flying car – Rome, where I live, is getting too busy lately.•Federico Zampaglione's first feature film, Shadow, is playing at film festivals around the world after having its premiere at the Film4 FrightFest in August
Puzzle Questwas one of the most successful gaming "what-ifs". By mixing the classic match-3 gameplay – thinkBejeweled– with role playing game (RPG) features like plot and combat, 2007's Puzzle Quest created something incredibly addictive. Ported to all the main consoles – the iPhone version being the only disappointment – Puzzle Quest was a huge critical success. This new genre – puzzle adventure? - was the best example yet of cross fertilization between casual and "core" gaming. Although there hasn't quite been the flood of Puzzle Quest clones that might have been expected the genre is continuing to expand.Might and Magic: Clash of Heroesadds a twist but perhaps the most interesting is take on the genre isGyromancer, not least because it is a joint development between heavyweight duo PopCap and Square Enix. The former are one of the most successful casual games developers – Bejeweled, Peggle – while Square Enix are famously responsible for Final Fantasy and numerous other RPG franchises. The collaboration between the two is a tacit admittance that the success of Puzzle Quest – developed by a small Australian team – caught them both by surprise. Gyromancer sees the big boys enter the genre, So what do we know about Gyromancer so far?For a start the game is based on Bejeweled Twist. So rather than matching 3, players will now rotate 4 icons to progress in the game. Monsters will be summoned and there will be apparently be a more nuanced approach to objectives. No doubt a nonsensical plot will be included too.Whether the game can match the enjoyable and surprisingly varied action of Puzzle Quest remains to be seen. For a start Twist just isn't as much fun as the original Bejeweled. Also over-complication blightedPuzzle Quest's sequeland there is a concern it may happen with Gyromancer. Developers always have to achieve that critical balancing act between accessibility and depth - or in Gyromancer's case the balance between Popcap and Square. Get this right and Gyromancer could be one of the most interesting games of 2010.So what do you think? Excited by Gyromancer? Or never played Puzzle Quest and wondering what the fuss is all about?
An IT consultant who for more than two years used forged rail tickets on his daily commute into London was today given a suspended sentence and ordered to pay back the fares.Jonathan Moore saved £12,472 by using his computer skills to produce replica tickets for his daily journey from East Sussex to London.Moore, 27, was foiled when a ticket inspector suspected something was awry with his ticket during a routine inspection last year. The keen-eyed train worker spotted differences in the colour and material of Moore's counterfeit ticket, and on further investigation found 11 forged tickets in the plastic wallet where the passenger kept his travel documents.A laptop seized at Moore's home in Hove revealed designs for more than 70 fraudulent tickets. The court heard that Moore designed and printed three- and six- monthly rail tickets from his laptop.Judge Richard Hayward described it as a "skilful and sophisticated fraud." He told Moore: "You are a computer expert who had a good job  … It's very sad that you should use your skills for a fraudulent purpose."Moore, who left his job after being threatened with disciplinary action, pleaded guilty to fraud, making 74 forged travel tickets and possessing 11 forged tickets in August this year. He was given a nine-month suspended prison sentence and ordered to repay the £12,472 of unpaid ticket charges at Brighton crown court. He was also handed a 240-hour unpaid work order, and told to pay £510 costs.Karen Boswell, customer services director at First Capital Connect, paid tribute to the company's staff. "The audacity of this fraud beggars belief and it is a tribute to our quick-witted staff that this thief was caught out," she said."Fare-dodgers like Moore are robbing the rail industry of £400m a year, money that could otherwise be invested in better services for the vast majority of law-abiding passengers who do pay for their rail ticket."
The Electoral Commission has strongly criticised plans by the Greater London Authority's chief executive Leo Boland to push ahead with electronic counting in its 2012 elections, based on the GLA's internal cost-benefit analysis that shows e-counting would cost 40% more than a manual count.In aresponse published today on its website(PDF), to an analysis that was published by the GLA in June, the commission says it is "concerned ... that the advantages of e-counting may have been overstated".E-counting has been used in London elections since 2000 - but there has not previously been any in depth analysis comparing it with manual counting. In the 2012 elections roughly 10m votes will have to be counted, using three different vote-counting systems – first past the post, and two forms of proportional representation.The commission, which aims to safeguard confidence in the democratic process, disagrees with a number of assumptions in the GLA's analysis, such as that e-counting is free from human error, while noting that "the [GLA] assumptions made about the speed and accuracy of manual counting seem overly negative".The GLA's plans havealready been criticisedby other groups such as the Open Rights Group, which campaigns for digital rights. It has said that the extra cost of an e-count – estimated in the analysis at £5.1m, compared to £3.6m for a manual count – "doesn't seem rational … when they could spend it on better public services".The commission criticises a number of assumptions made by the GLA. "It is claimed that e-counting is more expensive yet quicker than a manual count," it remarks. "Clearly, however, either method of counting could be made quicker if more resources are available."The GLA also suggests in its cost benefit analysis that despite the apparently higher cost of e-counting, it might be able to push the prices down during the tendering process – perhaps to match that of manual counting. But the commission says that with only two companies that could "realistically" tender for the contract, and Scottish elections due to take place at the same time – and possibly also requiring e-counting – if a single company wins both contracts it could either be dangerously overstretched, while gaining an effective monopoly.The commission also adds that: "We share others' disappointment that the UK Government has not yet responded to our 2008 recommendations." Those were that the government should set out a cost-benefit analysis of e-counting, and consult widely on it; and set out a timetable for its implementation, making clear how it could guarantee checking.
What is it?A magic television remote wand. Or a "buttonless remote control that can learn up to 12 infrared codes from existing remote controls and replay them when the user makes one fo 12 predefined gestures".CategoryHardware/Software combinationYou'd use it in the...HomeFirst impressions: what is it like to look at, to hold, to use?It's a wand. And the kind of wand a proper grown-up wizard would own, not some party magician's starter-wand malarkey. Tactile, balanced, pleasing to hold. More, I'd say, like a good conductor's baton than an "abracdabra rabbit from the hat".What does it really do well?It gives a very satisfying swoosh when waved through air while shouting "Cruciatus". It is, according to my children, an irresistible thing to run off with while chanting gobbledook in a vaguely witchy way.What's the cost?£49.99, fromfirebox.comWhat's it up against?Your actual remote control. The dull, non-wand-like button-led affair which controls your television, DVD player etc. Surprisingly effectively.Blind us with the tech specs, then:For a phenomenally over-complicated device, it's low on technical specs. It is, after all, a piece of plastic with some batteries in it which controls your television. I imagine it works on the same basis as one of those universal remotes. Except without the functionality.What's it good for?It's an excellent toy wand. If somewhat expensive for that purpose. Particularly at the point when, as with all stick shaped toys, it evolves into an excellent toy for bashing over your sibling's head. (Note to manufacturers: I intervened to prevent this.)What are its failings?I'm afraid they are legion. This suffers, I'm afraid, from being neither the one or the other. It is way too complicated for children. It took me 20 minutes to teach myself how to control the television, using the TWO PAGES OF INSTRUCTIONS. On the grounds that a gadget should be instinctive, intuitive, something you can start playing with straight away, this fails. And even when you can work it like a pro, you still can't check out the Electronic Programme Guide or indeed control your PVR or rewind your DVD. I certainly couldn't anyway. So in essence, it's a remote control with less functionality unless, like a Furby or advanced Tamagotchi, you are prepared to spend hours bending it to your will.Will I have to read the manual?Oh yes. And practice. In fact, seven years at Hogwarts might actually be required before any level of functionality can be achived. If you have children they will have already broken it by this point.Would I still be using it in six months' time?Try six hours.What will it talk to, and how?In theory, it'll talk to anything your remote talks to. But it only has 12 programmeable "gestures" so if you are the kind of gadget freak who likes a lot of functionality and has maybe three boxes in your living room – telly, digital box, DVD say – it's not going to cover them.How scared should I be of dropping it?It's sturdy, I'll give it that.What's its USP?I've been asking myself that a lot...Rating out of 5As a toy: 4. As a remote control: 1.Finally, is it worth it?No.
The web search engine Google has decorated its home page – seen by millions of people every day as they go there to search the internet - with a sketch of Mahatma Gandhi, who was born 140 years ago.His face is being used in place of the initial letter "G" of the website's onscreen name, making him one of a small number of people who have been given such prominence on the site's search page.Gandhi's birthday, October 2, is marked as a national holiday in India. Born in 1869, Gandhi insisted that non-violent civil disobedience was the best way to achieve change, and led nationwide campaigns in India - then under British rule - to achieve independence. He was assassinated at the age of 78 by a Hindu extremist.Previous people featured in Google's doodle include Albert Einstein, Leonardo da Vinci, Confucius, Luciano Pavarotti, Dr Seuss, Andy Warhol, Claude Money, Louis Braille, Pablo Picasso, Vinc ent van Gogh – and, posthumously, Michael Jackson.The doodles are overseen byDennis Hwang, who joined the company in 2000 and has gradually been using the logo to remind people of particular dates or events. Last week the logo celebrated the company's 11th birthday by including what looked like two letter "l". Last month it also offered clues to crop circles and to the author H G Wells, through hints about the locations mentioned in his book The War of the Worlds.Gandhi's own voice can be heard in a speech from 1931, available on YouTube.
Here's the second part of our interview with Ubisoft Montreal chief, Yannis Mallat. Today we cover Avatar and the future of the company's flirtation with movies...With the Avatar game, am I right in thinking it's not a straightforward tie-in? You're taking the universe and rendering it in a new form?Exactly. In order to do that we had to start early and have access to the right people - pretty much how it happened with Patrice and Cory with the film series. If we want that convergence to happen we need to understand exactly, what are the leverages, what are the creative hubs and what's the true essence of the IP and then make the true adaptation work – that is to be proper to the medium.Does Cameron see the game as an extension of the movie, or a separate entity?It's a little mix of both. Rather than an extension of his world, I think he would use the term expansion, because the game is giving access to a new part of Pandora, the game is giving access to stuff that the movie doesn't cover because it doesn't have to, but it does exist in the Avatar universe.Do you think that Cameron has learned from videogames in terms of telling stories via CGI?I think you'd have to direct that to Jim! I think it would be pretty cocky for me to say that.Ultimately, where do you see this relationship between games and films leading? Do you see a point where a company like Ubisoft could equally be considered a movie studio? Or are all the companies just going to become content providers?I think it is too early to say that we're aiming to become a major motion picture studio. I think what's interesting are your last words – we are a content provider. And as long as there are people who'll consume the entertainment content, that's our core business. Will we become more involved in providing linear content? Yes probably.You have to remember one thing – we won't go faster than our knowledge, our technology and our creativity will allow. Ubisoft is well known for applying a step-by-step strategy and making sure that we're ready to go to the next phase before we move. At this stage, the destination is less important than the journey; the more we go on this journey, the more we learn and that's what's important because our creators need to stay at the top, at the state of the art, and only by making sure this happens will we keep providing the best entertainment.There are, of course, plenty of long-running franchises at Ubisoft Montreal, but you'll often take a chance on new IP like Assassin's Creed. Is this an important element of your work?We embrace risks as long as innovation and creativity are pushed. I think that with Assassin's, by the time it was under development, especially at the early stage, another publisher might have killed it. The key is to trust your talent, while you make sure that they are the best.Along with the likes of Peter Molyneux and Ray Muzyka at Bioware, you seem to be interested in the idea of games that stir emotions – are we seeing that at the moment, and if not why not?I think that even my own thoughts on that are evolving. Emotion is a practical word because everyone understands it. But I think what we really mean by that is making sure we have content that touches people and by doing that we may want to explore the specific ways that the videogame has as a medium. I think we can touch people through cinematic content in a game, pretty much as movies do. But I really think we can touch people more deeply when interactivity is involved. I think that when you make sure that the player's actions lead to emotional impact, then it is felt in a bigger way, and I think that this is key to our creative process. It's difficult to master but if you make sure that your game design philosophy is centred around that, you will have more profound impact on gamers on all sides of things and definitely this is what we are aiming for.Are you open to adding new ideas throughout the development process at your studio or do write a design document and stick rigidly to it?We tend to professionalise the way we make games. We have some – very few – rigid steps in order for everything in between those steps to be very organic and iterative as much as possible, based on well-known techniques that include agile development. We also leave room for prototyping and having teams doing side projects. If it happens to be good yes, we will implement it, and sometimes we do implement features after Beta - even if it's not in the design book. I think there is a nice way to depict this approach – we are managing the chaos...How far do you plan ahead as a studio. Do you have ideas on your PC for Assassin's Creed 3 and the next Splinter Cell?We are definitely looking at IP management so that we can think ahead for the next games, that's important - our gamers consume more than the product, they consume the experience,  the characters, the world, the mechanics, everything that's needed to make sense of the game. We have to have this long-term view.Is it difficult planning around the cyclical nature of videogame hardware? Do you have to bear the next generation of consoles in mind?Yes, we do factor that in. I think we've been used to a five year cycle between the machines... We'll see what happens, but we make sure this is factored in and we manage our R&amp;D and technology departments with this in mind.Are Ubisoft consulted about new hardware developments by the big manufacturers?I don't know if I can answer that! But, you know, not answering this question is answering it...What do you think are going to be some of the key themes that shape games over the next three or four years?That's interesting because on the content side I think it's always open. In terms of future direction, we'll see what Microsoft is doing with the Natal project - heading toward a no controller approach and using different ways to attract non-gamers. That is pretty obvious. With content, it's always a new beginning, it's always a blank page, and that's good news because people want to be told stories, they want to be moved, they want the feeling that they are touched, changed by entertainment. That's the goal – there's always a re-set.With Natal, a lot of companies probably think, 'how do we adapt our current IPs to work on this new technology', rather than 'how do we come up with new IPs to work natively'. Which is Ubisoft Montreal's approach?It's a mix of both. But we make sure we give room to the creators, because content prevails. We see technology as leverage to express the content in different forms or in new ways. We want to make sure that technology is part of the entertainment value -  if you think about it, the biggest games at Ubisoft that really paved the way for us, were games that were based on interesting new ways of playing, or on technological breakthroughs – the light and shadows in Splinter Cell, the rewind in Prince of Persia, the crowds in Assassin's Creed – those are examples of how technology can be linked and melded within the content and delivered to gamers.Finally, going back to this whole idea of merging games and films, which movie director would you like to work with next?Wow, I don't know! You know what? I would like to reverse the question. I would like to ask the directors – who wants to come and work with us?!
Facebook has acted to close down a series of fake accounts that were being used by computer criminals to target the site's users.According to Roger Thompson, chief research officer with antivirus company AVG Labs, a rising number of bogus profiles were being used to try and tempt the social network's users into downloading viruses.In a post on theAVG Labs blog, he explained how the fake accounts had appeared, with a request to download a video. If unsuspecting users clicked on the link, it downloaded a piece of malicious software to their computer."Clearly, the data snatchers have found a way to automate the creation of Facebook accounts," Thompson wrote. "I'm sure Facebook will deactivate all these accounts as quickly as they find them, but it can't be an easy thing for them to find."Facebook is believed to have started shutting down accounts, though it is not clear how many people have been affected.The outbreak is a blow to the world's largest social networking site, which has been targeted regularly by spammers and fraudsters but has managed to remain relatively unburdened by dangerous activity.Unlike other social networks, which have fallen foul of criminals masquerading as ordinary users, Facebook has retained a reputation for security - in part because of the onerous nature of setting up a new account.In recent weeks, however, the site has been hit with a number of attempted scams and attacks. In particular, it has witnessed an increase in so-called 419 scams, featuring criminals who pose as innocent individuals and request money from their victims.The ruse is more often associated with email spam, but Facebook users have been targeted by messages from fraudsters requesting money - often using hacked accounts to pose as somebody's friend, suggesting to their target that they are stranded in a foreign country and require cash.Such attacks have happened in the past, but the frequency appears to have increased - leading Facebook to issue a warning earlier this week."While the total number of people who have been impacted is small, we take any threat to security seriously and are redoubling our efforts to combat the scam," wrote Facebook engineer Alok Menghrajanion the company's blog.As well as offering users examples of 419 scams in action, he said that the company had also taken steps to react to the increase."On the technical side, we have improved a number of our automated systems to better handle this unique class of scam and are taking efforts to ensure that we adapt our response to the scam as it changes."Even the FBI has become involved, warning social network users yesterday day that there had been thousands of reports of accounts being hijacked and that 419 scams were on the rise again."Some of these messages appear to be sent from friends, giving the perception of legitimacy," the agency said.
Friday's FIFA or PES edition of Chatterbox
On Wednesday weaskedif you had any questions forRod Beckstrom, the freshly-minted chief executive of internet bigwigs Icann - and one of the architects of the deal announced this week that sawWashington cede control of the organisation.Though I wasn't sure whether we'd have time to run through your questions, I did get to ask him queries posed by three readers. Here's what he said:(a quick note: I paraphrased the questions)Nippon8:Is there a danger that the expansion of domain names (gTLDs) and the move to include international characters in domain names (IDNs) are two issues that are being conflated? Shouldn't there be more emphasis on getting IDNs working?Rod Beckstrom:The IDN project is moving along very well - it's in the test phase right now and should go before the Icann board in Seoul in October. It's very popular, because everyone sees the benefit: there are plenty of technical and policy hurdles, but everyone agrees. Hopefully it will be rolling out shortly thereafter - we're talking a small number of months.As for the generic top level domains, there's still a range of opinion. They are a little more complex, because there will never be a solution that suits everyone - we're doing it to create competition, and the people who don't want more competition don't like it. But we are moving forward with an aggressive time frame.Nevali:What's the benefit of gTLDs? Why doesn't Icann forget about expanding the number of top-level domains and just oversee what the country code administrators are doing?RB:The owners of those country codes already have the power to do pretty much anything they want. But it's not an answer because if you open up the root, you open up new gTLDs anyway. It's in our mandate to create new top level domains, so we're doing the right thing - but it's a very difficult problem.EllyD:How is Icann trying to improve the arbitration process for victims of domain theft?RB:We are proposing a new mechanism -uniform rapid suspension. There is a proposal and we're deliberating it.
&bull; Microsoft's relaunched search engine has received a disproportionate amount of attention in recent months - not least because journalists are desperate to cover every cranny of its conflict with Google - but it turns out thatBingmay not be the thing.According to figures from StatCounter, Bing saw its share of the search market decline in September - down to 3.25% of global searches from 3.58%. Yahoo was also down, to 4.37%, while Google rose to an astonishing 90.54% of all search traffic worldwide.&bull; Bing's struggles come alongside more bad news for Bill Gates. According to thenew Forbes rich listreleased this week, Gates remains America's richest man - despite losing $7bn ($7bn!) over the past year. Other technological tycoons Larry Ellison, Sergey Brin and Larry Page, Michael Dell, Steve Ballmer and Paul Allen all figure in the top 25 (of course, the vast majority of their wealth is tied up in shares, so it's a paper fortune).&bull; And so another weekend is just around the corner: a chance to let loose, get offline and go do something interesting. Or you could just inside puzzle over aKorean girl band singing the Bubble Bobble theme. Your choice... see you on Monday.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Square this week released anew, extended trailer(below) for the much anticipated Final Fantasy XIII, due out in the US and Europe in spring next year.Now, the phrase 'much-anticipated' gets bandied around a lot these days, but for role-playing fans this release is like Chinese Democracy, The Phantom Menace and, er, Windows 7 all rolled into one. First previewed at E3 way back in 2006, the game has been stuck in development hell for the past three years. It now, finally, has a Japanese release date, and from the looks of the trailer the game seems to be in fantastic shape.Final Fantasy is far and away the big daddy of role playing games franchises - to an extent which cannot be overstated. The current generation of consoles have so far lacked a must-have RPG, one worth investing in the platform for alone. With nods to Fallout 3 and Elder Scrolls (which, to be fair, blur the line between RPGs and sandbox games), if FFXIII comes even close to matching some of it's illustrious predecessors it should blow away all of its competition.The game comes at an important time for Square Enix, who are in the process of large-scale growth. Having recently acquired Eidos, the Japanese company's CEO Yoichi Waida plans to support their expansion byshifting an expected 6 million units of the title. Their confidence in the quality of their flagship title is reassuring.Early reports and snippets of information have been encouraging. Square have opted to restore some classic features dropped from XII, such as the ATB (Active Time Battle) system and the old summons favourites (Shiva, Ifrit, Bahamut etc). And with that Final Fantasy mark of quality you know you'll be treated to an engrossing storyline, haunting soundtrack and achingly beautiful cutscenes.Further good news is that the game will be available for both the PS3 and Xbox 360 - which, despite grumbling from hardcore Sony loyalists on messageboards, means more people will have access to the game.So it's bound to be amazing, right?Sadly for FFVII devotees like me there can be no recapturing of those old glory days. The adventures of Cloud, Tifa and co were my videogame St Etienne, halcyon times that I will never see again. I still think about my Gold Chocobo sometimes.Final Fantasy VIII was almost as good, IX was disappointing, and despite trying twice to get into it, X always left me cold - and that was the last in the series I made any concerted effort to get in to.The problems with the most recent additions are hard to pinpoint - though can largely be attributed to a problem that plagues many long running gaming series; namely, when you reach a pinnacle (be it FFVII, Pro Evo 4 or Resident Evil 4) how do you then keep the series fresh without making so many changes that it loses what made it special in the first place?When it gets it right, the Final Fantasy series has created immersive, rewarding and memorable gaming experiences like no other. I, for one, will be keep my fingers crossed that this latest offering might recapture some of that old magic.
The legal tradition of serving court papers to a defendant could be consigned to history, after the high court ordered an injunction to be served via social messaging service Twitter for the first time.In a ruling on Thursday, a judge in London said that an anonymous Twitter user accused of impersonating a right-wing blogger should cease their activities and reveal their identity to the court. Without any other way of contacting the individual in question, however, the judge agreed that the best way to serve the injunction was through a message on the popular web service.The case involves an account set up to impersonate Donal Blaney, a solicitor and Conservative blogger based in Kent. Since it was set up on September 17, the fake account has used his photograph and the name of his blog, Blaney's Blarney, alongside a series of messages purporting to be written by him.Blaney, whose clients include a number of prominent Conservatives as well as the controversial Westminster gossip blogger Paul Staines - more widely known by the pseudonym Guido Fawkes - said that the content was "mildly objectionable" but believes that it is politically motivated.Matthew Richardson, the barrister who obtained the injunction, said in a statement that it was important to find ways to get anonymous online bullies to be responsible for their actions."People have to learn that they can no longer hide behind the cloak of anonymity the Internet provides and break the law with impunity," he said.Blaney told the Guardian that he hoped the action would succeed in getting the impersonator to reveal their identity - but recognised that there was a risk they could simply delete their account and disappear."Whoever it is would be a complete moron if they ignore this order," he said. "If they do, I'll go back to court again."Since it has rocketed in popularity in recent months - with more than 30m users worldwide - Twitter has become a haven for impersonators, with fake versions of public figures including Vladimir Putin, William Shatner and even foreign secretary David Millband managing to fool users on many occasions.Although many accounts are clearly parodies, some have caused confusion - a situation that came to a head in June when Tony LaRussa, the manager of US baseball team the St Louis Cardinals, reached an out-of-court settlement with Twitter after he sued the company for not doing more to prevent imposters.Since that incident, Twitter has added a "verified" badge to some users who may be spoofed, though the policy does not appear to be applied evenly.Blaney told the Guardian that he did not contact Twitter directly, after a previous case in which the San Francisco web company failed to act quickly to block an impersonator."On behalf of somebody else I got a Twitter account taken down last month, and it took more than a week," he said. "Then I remembered that somebody had been served through Facebook recently ... I was quite impressed that the judge knew what Twitter was."The company - which last week raised $100m from investors who believe it could become a multibillion dollar company in the future - did not respond to a request for comment.
Apple has been distancing itself from Google - but its latest move, which seems to be trying to replace Google Maps on the iPhone, is being interpreted as quite dramatic.The company apparently bought a startup called Placebase in July, going by the tweets and change in job status of its chief executive, who now says he is "part of Apple's geo team". (Did you even know Apple had a "geo team"?) Computerworldfollows the footprints.Now the calculation goes that, as Placebase positioned itself as a "white label" geomapping company, which offered the ability to place pushpins onto a map. Just like Google Maps does, of course.The point being that various mapping organisations have got the world mapped out, so all you need to do is to license them, do a bit of work to put an API over the top, and there you go - instant location mapping.According to Computerworld,Placebase is similar to Google Maps in that it is a mapping service and has the world mapped out.  You can zoom in and out and it has different layers you can superimpose over your mapping data.To which I'd say... well, sorta. It offers a very nice view of Los Angeles, because the data there is very detailed:But by contrast here's the best view I could get (having tried all kinds of zooms) of the Guardian's London headquarters at N1 9GU:I've seen better, to be honest.(If you're wondering how I did it, you go tothis pageand then insert the correct long/lat pair and your choice of zoom factor into the second line ofvar map = new PMap(document.getElementById("map"));map.setCenter(new PLatLng(51.534909, -0.121694), 10)")Some aresuggestingthat this is Apple looking to ditch Google altogether. No Google Maps! No Google in the toolbar of the browser search bar!I think it's rather less extreme. First, that search bar default in Safari brings in money for Apple - each time you use that, rather than calling up a page with Google's search box and using it, Google pays Apple some tiny amount of money; but it mounts up.Second, Google Maps is an increasingly robust API, and lots of people write against it.Third, this might be for some quite different purpose; and looking at Placebase's data, it doesn't seem to cover enough countries in enough depth. (Then again, Apple has always been a bit puzzled by this "Yoorp" place; for years one could get photo albums via its iPhoto software in the US, but not in the UK or elsewhere.)So the verdict? It might be for something that isn't Google Maps. After all, the newest version of iMovie (that's iMovie 09) includes location data, as does iPhoto. Perhaps it's trying to build it into those better, rather than usurp a familiar interface. Apple and Google may not be friends, but their antipathy and rivalry is far less deep than that of many other potential partners.
Spotify is going offline. Not in a bad way, but in a potentially profitable way.From today, "premium" subscribers to the music streaming service will be able to select their playlists and set them to be 'Available offline'. According toSpotify, "Those playlists will then be synced to the computer so you can listen to your favorite tunes even if your internet connection goes down or if you're at summer house with no connection at all."Spotify showing how it will be available to premium usersThe interesting question that we haven't been able to determine but which will doubtless be investigated in great detail by Spotify premium-owning geeks around Europe is: do the songs have any digital rights management (DRM) attached?Spotify streams in the patent-freeOgg Vorbisformat, but it actually caches what you've listened to (on a Mac, for example, you'll find the songs you've listened to or might be about to listened to in an obfuscated format in your home folder at /Library/Caches/com.spotify.client/Storage/.As much as anything, it's a neat way to avoid having to pay streaming bills (though not of course music publishing charges) if you keep listening to the same songs.Obfuscated - but it's not clear if those files actually have DRM too. Clearly, the app does something else to the files so that it can read them but others can't. In that sense, the obfuscation amounts to a sort of rights management: Spotify can read them, but others can't. But it's not the way you usually think of them.The question now is whether this will mean more people will sign up for Premium. The last time there was a public declaration it was that something like 2% of users have gone for it - though the introduction more recently of the iPhone version (see our review) may mean that's moved up. But - Spotify on your desktop machine? What's the point? Don't you always have your songs with you if you want them, on a digital music player? It seems like an oddly retrograde step, to encourage people to use computers to store songs again.Nevertheless, if it grabs you, you can also now pay for your premium subscription via PayPal.Update:the offline feature is now live, and Spotify has specified that you can store up to 3,333 songs on up to three devices including your phone. You have to have the latest version of Spotify, and may need to log out and in again to see it. Premium only, of course.So - will that make you more likely to pay?
Britain lags well behind other countries in the quality of its broadband, according to a wide-ranging survey carried out by Oxford University's Said Business School Tand the University of Oviedo's Department of Applied Economics, and sponsored by the networking company Cisco.The quality of the high-speed connections available here are only "meeting the needs of today's applications", according to the study, which puts the UK's broadband at 31st in the world, behind Korea and Japan - the leaders - but also countries such as Lithuania, Romania, and Latvia, which it says are all "ready for tomorrow" in the quality of their high-speed connectivity.The measure looks at the "Broadband Quality Score", a combination of download speed, upload speed and "latency" - the latter being a measure of how long it takes a packet of internet data to travel from its source to its destination. (Physically carrying a DVD, which holds 4.7 gigabytes, across a room in a second would be a high "download" speed - but the time taken compared to the near-light speed of an electron means the latency is enormous.)Thestudysplits the results of its tests, from taking 24m readings of broadband connection speeds between May and July in different countries, into five gradations: "ready for tomorrow" (with super-fast connections and low latency); "comfortably enjoying today's applications"; "meeting needs of today's applications"; "below today's applications threshold"; and "leapfrog opportunity". Those in the last category - including India, Egypt, Kenya and Nigeria - have the chance to make a generational change by installing completely new systems that will bring them up to modern standards.The growth of streaming sites offering video, alternative reality sites such as Second Life, and sites such as Google Maps which can demand large downloads of code has put increasing demands on download speeds. At the same time the growth in social networking sharing of files such as photos and videos has put added emphasis on upload speeds - how fast one can get data from one's home computer onto a site. And latency is key when using applications such as video streaming like the BBC iPlayer, video calls or voice over internet telephony (VoIP), where dropped or delayed connections can destroy interaction.The UK is among those with the widest penetration of broadband, with around 70% of households having it, but does not stand out for the quality of connectivity, the report found.Joanne Hughes of Cisco told the BBC: J"It can be a bit misleading to look at the rankings. The important thing is whether the broadband quality of a country is good enough for today's needs and the UK falls well within this category."We forecast the UK will improve because of things such as cable networks being upgraded and the Digital Britain report focusing on next-generation access."Under the Digital Britain plans, UK landlines will attract a tax of 50p per month which will be used to encourage the building of next-generation systems such as optical fibre connections to streets and homes that will be capable of download speeds of 100 megabits per second or more. Presently most people are promised maximum download speeds of 8Mbps - though the actual median figure is about 3.6Mbps, with a number of areas still unable to get broadband, and instead having to rely on dialup connections that run at about 2% of that average speed.The Digital Britain report, unveiled earlier this year, proposed a minimum connection speed for any residence in the UK of 2Mbps - though that was criticised as unambitious by the internet industry.The study found that the average global download speed globally was 4.75Mbps (megabits per second), while average upload speed was 1.3Mbps.It is estimated that countries will need an average download speed of 11.25Mbps and an upload speed of 5Mbps in order to handle future applications such as high definition video.The study also found that Sweden has the highest quality broadband in Europe, and is rapidly catching up with Japan and South Korea - the world leaders - as its BQS improves 38% from 2008. Sweden is the most successful country in closing the broadband quality gap with residents outside the most populated cities enjoying better quality than those in the cities. However London does not figure in the top 20 cities with the "best" broadband.Professor María Rosalía Vicente, University of Oviedo, said: "The Broadband Quality Study shows us which countries have made real moves towards the internet of the future. It also provides fresh evidence of the urban versus rural quality divide. The challenge for countries now is to bridge this quality divide."You can download thereportand itsappendixand thefull study.
A person who used to bully you between the ages of 6 and 16 – not physical bullying, more just being a real sod – has sent you a friend request on Facebook. Do you ignore them? Explain why you're not accepting their request? Or accept them, and let bygones be bygones?(Yes, it is a real life experience - though from a reader, not me.)
Ubisoft Montreal is one of the world's most respected and successful development studios. Housed in a tastefully converted warehouse on the historic St. Laurent Boulevard, it is responsible for the Prince of Persia, Assassin's Creed, Splinter Cell and Rainbow Six titles as well as numerous successful tie-ins and sports titles.But there is more going on here than games. A couple of years ago, Ubisoft  set up its own dedicated animation studio, Ubisoft Digital Arts, to begin work on short CGI features. Then, last summer, the companypurchasedthe digital special effects studioHybride, underlining a new intention to gain a foothold in the movie industry.Now Ubisoft Montreal and Hybride are working together to produce three live action short films based around the stealth adventure series, Assassin's Creed. In a highly secure office within the Ubisoft Montreal citadel, the videogame version of James Cameron's  agenda-setting 3D movie Avatar is also being produced.So why is a successful videogame studio with a wealth of multi-million dollar projects bothering to dip its toe into the volatile movie market? Last week, I spoke to Ubisoft Montreal's affable CEO Yannis Mallat about the rapidly converging future of games and films...Yannis, is this the right time to be making ambitious expansion plans?At the moment we are betting on the growth of the industry. Even if some indicators show that the industry may be impacted by the global economic climate, we only have quarter to quarter comparisons and I think that it is pretty dangerous to rely on these: if you had a big release in the same quarter last year, your comparison becomes a little awkward. The videogame industry is cyclic, and we need to wait for a full cycle, with most of the sales obviously being done in the Christmas period. We are also betting on the fact that we're going to need more and more people to create games that meet the wishes of consumers. We're getting ready for this by growing our internal production teams.There are some worries that the industry can't sustain this model of ever-larger development teams, though...As far as I'm concerned on the production side of things, we are always looking for ways to improve the efficiency of production. I think we are positioning ourselves as leaders in finding new ways of providing better content. Our convergence strategy has helped us on our way to working closer with Hollywood people; we are making better games right now because we're attaining knowledge through converging the two media. That's really important.Looking ahead, then, you see the convergence between games and movies as being very important?Let me explain - we have identified that the movie industry and the videogame industry are due to converge at some point, it's just a matter of time. What we're doing right now is anticipating that fact, and then working on all the bridges that connect the two. There are several kinds of convergence – there's corporate convergence, there's technological convergence , there's content convergence. Technological convergence is really important; we're talking to Hollywood people, famous tech-orientated directors like James Cameron... when I first came to the Avatar set he was showing me all the tools he was using and it was funny because I thought to myself, oh my god, those are tools we've been using for years!So there's parity there on the technical side, but how are you moving more toward the movie industry in terms of creativity?We bought the Hybride studio in June 2008 – it's very famous, very well known in Hollywood – they helped to craft movies like Sin City and 300, so they're famous in the post-production effects business. That was one year after we set up our own digital cinema division in Montreal. So step by step we're getting there.But how is this move into movie production helping the games?We're benefiting from elements such as casting. When we started the Assassin's Creed: Lineage film series, we worked with directors and writers and during that phase we did a common casting between the game and the movie. That may seem simple, but it was really helpful on the game side to raise the quality bar of the acting. That's one example among many others - so on our way to making movies and to getting closer to that business, we are learning a great deal that we can use right now to make better games.Were the Assassin's Creed Lineage shorts created entirely by movie staff or was it important to involve the game development team too?Absolutely. Content convergence is important. I think the true convergence is the one that happens in people's minds when they consume our IP. If we want this content convergence to work, we need to have the true creators of the IP involved as it is being built through different media – that's what we did, we took Patrice [Desilets, Creative Director] and Cory [May, scriptwriter] and having that creative core involved is the absolute key; producing other media around the same core makes sense, from a consumer perspective. We could have outsourced that stuff, but it wouldn't work, it wouldn't work for the true meaning of the content. I think we need to make the oath that we respect the fans of the license.Are the Lineage shorts a practice run for Ubisoft as a movie studio?I'll tell you one thing – if you talk to Pierre Raymond, the head of Hybride, he would tell you that the energy and the efforts that were put into the project were actually the same as producing a long feature. We would be able to provide you with pictures of the set, the green screen, all the actors, all the props that we built, all the post-prod equipment that was on site so that we could use game assets – even for the live shooting - to give geometrical and geographical references for the actors; it was such a big production that we could have decided to go for a long feature. So that's one answer, I guess. We really took that seriously.And yes we've learned a lot. Was it just a test? I don't think so, it was just our first project. But we've learned a great deal – Pierre and I have tested some new ways of producing linear content that proved to be interesting. We can't wait to do more.
Thursday's is it really October edition of Chatterbox
&bull; The US government caused some surprise after its deal with internet administration bodyIcannwent even further than many expected, with Washingtonbasically ceding its control over the the running of the network. That essentially makes Icann independent, and opens the door for a sort-of United Online Nations. We've got a comment piece from Icann bossRod Beckstromthatoutlines his thoughts.&bull; A report in the Bookseller suggests thatAmazoncould be preparing to launch the Kindle in Britain- perhaps evennext month. The delay has largely been due to the Kindle's Whispernet wireless downloads, which are both technically problematic for Europe and struggle with the issue of international roaming charges. Which network will pick it up?&bull; Your newsagent should be inundated with copies of this week'sTechnology Guardian(they come conveniently wrapped in a newspaper) which features a look atwhy London is supporting electronic counting in its future elections, some musings onwhat you do with your digital identity in the event of deathand a review ofApple's new iPod nano. There's much more, of course: £1 in paper form, orhere.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
The Bookseller magazinesaysthat "authoritative sources" have told it that Amazon will "finally announce the arrival" of the Kindle 2 e-book in the UK next week.Note that that doesn't necessarily mean a Kindle 2 will actually beavailablein the UK next week. If you parse the sentence carefully, it could mean that there's just going to be a press conference (or press release?) which will give a putative date for the actual physical arrival.And that looks like October: according to The Bookseller,One digital director said: "I think we are looking at October for launch." Another agreed: "Amazon is gathering a head of steam for launch."The problem for Amazon and Qualcomm, which writes the whispernet system that the Kindle uses in the US, has been that the US and Europe use totally different mobile network protocols. (Qualcomm's CDMA versus the European governments-sponsored GSM/GPRS, basically.)But the Bookseller says that a source has told it that "key things" have now been tied up - presumably, programming the Kindle (or building them?) so that they can talk to European mobile networks (it would be madness to try to build a new one using CDMA amidst all this surplus GPRS capacity) and getting a mobile network to offer the data.We await developments...
Bandwidth meteringI'm trying to find a Windows utility that will add up the downloaded gigabytes on my BT service.Mick AppsJS:Have a look atthe Best Free Download/Upload Meter page at Gizmo's Freeware. This has short reviews of six programs, and picks NetMeter as the best. A newer "donationware" program,iTraffic Monitor, is also worth a look.DU Meter 4.16is a good commercial alternative at $24.95 (£15.63) a licence, but there is a 30-day trial version.Computing for studentsMy daughter is about to head off to university, and I'm buying her a laptop to take with her. She will need Word, Excel and probably PowerPoint for her studies, along with web access and email. I'd like to spend less than £500, and preferably less than £400.Roderick SmithJS:It's always a good idea to check with university department staff to see if they want students to have access to any particular software, and to find out if they have any associated deals. For example, students can get Microsoft software free if their institutions subscribe to the MSDN Academic Alliance, and the licences don't expire after they leave. Suppliers of expensive professional software often have student editions. There's also a Home and Student 2007 version of Microsoft Office that covers three PCs, so you can use it at home as well.When it comes to hardware, any mainstream laptop will do the job, and there is a wide choice in the £250-£500 range. Typically, that will get you something like a 2GHz processor, 2GB of memory, a 160GB hard drive, DVD, a 15.4in WXGA (1280 x 800) screen and either Windows Vista or XP. At this point, I'd go for Vista and ask for a free upgrade coupon for Windows 7, which will be available at the end of October. Extras to look for include a built-in webcam for video chat, and a Kensington lock, so she can attach the laptop to something immovable. Obviously, you can get a better specification by paying more. You can buy this type of PC at high street stores or online, and supermarkets often have good deals. However, it's also worth considering support. We bought our son a Dell from the business section (less pre-installed rubbish) with three years' pro support and next business day onsite service. He made two call-outs due to hardware failures and the service was excellent, though it would have been better if the machine hadn't failed at all. You should also stress the importance of keeping backup copies of work files on CD and/or online.Bitten by ASPI have redesigned my small personal website using Visual Web Developer 2008, and it works well on my PC. After uploading the site, all that I saw was the index page.A HowesJS:Microsoft's Visual Web Developer 2008 Express Edition is a very powerful free program, and easy to use, but it defaults to creating sites usingMicrosoft's Active Server Pagessystem. If you have used the default, then you will need to find a web host that supports ASP. This would generally be a Windows server. Many web hosts use the open source Apache web server, which doesn't support ASP.net. However, a number of projects provide ASP or ASP-like functionality for Apache, such asApache::ASPandmod_mono, so you might be able to find one. The alternative would be to redo your small website. Visual Web Developer 2008 can produce pages in standard HTML, XHTML and other formats, and you should be able to host these anywhere. Putting it crudely, you have to create pages that end with .htm or .html not .asp!Drive, he saysIs it still possible to buy an ATA drive for my old Dell Dimension 8200?Allan PhillipsJS:Yes, this is a 40-pin IDE interface and a search for "IDE Ultra ATA 100" seems to find a few options. There are certainly refurbished drives around. An alternative is an Ultra ATA-to-SATA (parallel to serial) converter, which would enable you to fit a larger modern drive.
Light Peaks aheadIntel has shown Light Peak, a high-speed (100Gbps) optical cable connection that could replace USB in the next decade.Climate at Google EarthGoogle Earth has opened a section on climate change for the UN's climate conference in Copenhagen in December.Music we drive byAutotrader.co.uk has listed the UK public's Top 10 driving tunes on We7's free music streaming service.Mamut's the oneMamut One has been introduced as a complete software-plus-services offering for small European businesses, based on Microsoft technologies.Mini MindTracksiMinds, an Australian startup, has started releasing 8-minute audio books that sum up topics such as evolution, D-day and film noir.Wand-style TV controllerHarry Potter might like the battery-powered Wand (£49.99), a gesture-based TV remote control coming from Firebox.Tomorrow's Intel worldSky is showing 12 short "webisodes" illustrating Intel's World of Tomorrow, starting with sports and the 3D internetPersonal supercomputerSGI has announced the Octane III deskside supercomputer, which can have up to 20 quadcore Intel Xeon processors with 960GB of memory and 10TB of disk.Jack Schofield
Crunchy or smooth? Pacino or De Niro? Coke or Pepsi? The Beatles or the Stones? The millions of preferences we all have are, in many ways, what define us. Gaming throws up thousands of such variables – dividing lines along which we can group up and bathe in the warm glow of mutual validation.Whether or not you're a Fifa or an Evo "person" is a classic example of this. As multiplayer games, it's likely that you and your peer group are devoted to one chapel, sneering at followers of the other, inferior religion.Traditionally (and my loyalties are sure to be revealed here), the two camps were easily divided. Fifa fans were children or casual gamers, sucked in by the official licence and shiny advertising; players who wanted simple, accessible fun but had no time for tactics, one-twos or slide-rule through passes.Evo fans, on the other hand, were football gaming aesthetes. They played for the beauty of the game, not the competition. They would boast of memory cards chock-full of 30-yard top-corner volleys, not 72-match unbeaten runs. Who cared if Craig Bellamy was inexplicably named "Belasie"?The tendency of the two franchises to be influenced by (or steal) each other's ideas after each release, however, has meant that over time, the once-polar opposites have been drawn further together – leading some Evo devotees to cross battlelines. Both have licences and online play, both are endorsed by star names. By all accounts, in recent years, Fifa has simply been the better game.I, of course, could not countenance such brazen disloyalty, even though the last two Evos have been not much fun. But in the name of research I downloaded both demos last week.Having had a few days to deliberate and digest my immediate thoughts on the new Pro Evolution are as follows:1. The menu screens are worse than ever.2. The phrase "Game Plan" has no right to be used to label the Team Management screen, and was clearly written by someone who has no interest in football.3. The data is out of date: it's pleasantly nostalgic to play as Xabi Alonso for Liverpool but it also makes me feel sad.4. The game feels "smoother" than 2009 (which was one of the worst Evos) – through passes, especially chipped, work much better.5. There was no learning curve – with previous versions it's taken me hours to score a goal as I get used to the new game engine, let alone beat Barcelona on the hardest difficulty setting. This suggests to me that the new version will be more "fun" (like the heady days of Evo 4 and 5) than "sim" – we may see 30-yard screamers again.6. Hopefully they've sorted out the online play as someone scoring against you while your players are frozen is really quite frustrating.And so how goes it for Fifa? Well …1. It crashed, and my Xbox crashed, before I got to the match setup screen. This is a sign. The menus were nice and I noticed an option to change controls to the same as Evo's – very sneaky.2. I've decided that since I've barely played previous versions I'd rather know what you all think than further anger my temperamental Xbox.With Fifa out next week, and Evo three weeks after, the decision will soon be upon you – could this be the year you finally switch allegiances? Unless anyone can convince me to give Fifa another go I'm pretty sure I know where my £35 is heading ...
When Gordon Brown has more free time in the near future to wonder how Labour could have done more to enrich society then the words "open source" ought to figure prominently. Open source – the movement in which people all over the world collaborate to create software to run on computers, mobile phones and other devices – offers hope for the future of the world. Call it what you like: whether it's globalisation with a human face, socialism without the state or capitalism making peace with primeval communism, it doesn't matter. At the level of the nation state there may be powerful centrifugal forces breaking countries up into smaller, more nationalistic, units. But this is coinciding with even more powerful social forces, enabled by new technology, that are creating global networks such as Facebook, Twitter and the open source software (OSS) movement. Iran may be at odds with the rest of the world but lots of its programmers will be involved in OSS and networks because that is the way the world is going.Except in the UK, that is. A Labour government looking for "modern" ways of achieving its historical mission should be in the vanguard of open source, especially now it isexpanding to produce hardware such as cars, mobile phones and water pumps collaboratively. At its highest level people give their services free for mutual benefit (see Wikipedia), but OSS also embraces paid employees in corporations such as IBM – as long as they make results available to others. There is a growing ecosystem of companies such as Red Hat, Alfresco and Ingres that provide support for OSS projects as alternatives to proprietary software provided by giants such as Microsoft and Oracle (databases) that still dominate government procurement. This highlights another reason why the UK should embrace the movement: it would create new jobs.At a round-table meeting last week, attended by government and OSS corporates, it was reckoned that open source software accounted for barely 5% of government IT spending compared with more than 20% in Europe. This is a huge lost opportunity for which the reasons are not entirely clear. They range from the influence of companies such as Microsoft on public procurement to the real difficulties, and costs, of extracting a company from an embedded system.Curiously, practically everyone from the open source industry at the meeting thought thatthe government's most recent statementwas a model of its kind. It not only mandates open standards but insists that "open source and proprietary products are considered equally and systematically for value for money". This is not easy as the likes of Microsoft and Oracle make such large profit margins they can cut prices savagely if faced with better value from an OSS bid. This helps government since it reduces costs, while the OSS companies don't seem to mind this as they believe they can compete on a level playing field. What riles them is the gulf between the words on the policy document and the decisions taken in real life. Just as it used to be that no one got fired for choosing IBM, now no one ever loses their job by staying with Microsoft. One of the OSS participants admitted he didn't even know the person in government, if he or she existed, to whom he could go to to appeal when a bid has been awarded without public policy being followed.Labour's lapse has been so great that the Conservatives have been able to leap in with promises that they will save £600m from public expenditure by switching to OSS. The opportunity to do this, and more, is surely there. With its creative skills, culture of free health, free museums and giving blood for free, Britain ought to be a world leader in open source. It is our kind of thing.twitter.com/vickeegan
Just when you started thinking, 'hey, where's Best of Chatterbox? Have they canceled it again?' we return, stronger, sleeker and later than ever before. Well, later anyway. This week, District 9 gets dissed, Beatles Rock Band wins out against Guitar Hero 5 and many members of the Chatterbox community realise they're not pulling their weight at work - but that it doesn't seem to matter anyway.This week, it was Umbros who kept a Big Brother-like eye on the proceedings, watching you all as you chatted and noting down the miscreants. Hey, it turns out - everyone is a miscreant!Thanks to Dizzy for the photo, which I think was taken on holiday, but I'm not sure he said where. "I was pretty drunk when I spotted it," he explained of this piece of LittleBigPlanet graffiti. Still, he had the presence of mind to take a photo and send it to gamesblog + at + googlemail + com, which is more than can be said for most of you!Gamesblog September 14-18 by UmbrosMonday kicked off - excuse the pun - with chat about the weekend's football results. Hum of Evil posted a nice link to a PC only he was allowed to look at[Eh? - Keef], which prompted much tech talk about the best suppliers of built PCs in the UK. Killerbee, Limni and Sorbicol posted their ideal specifications for a reasonable £600-£700 machine in case anyone else is on the lookout.Smellavision caused controversy and outrage with his derogatory opinions on Peter Jackson and Neill Blomkamp's sci-fi thriller, District 9. Limni rushed to its defense, proclaiming it the best science fiction movie in years. The debate continued over the next few days, with the film splitting the blog between Smellavision, eMTG and akaSilky versus everyone else who has seen it (and enjoyed it).I don't know what I did to deserve the travesty of 'accident blog' on my first "Best of…" but things took a turn for the worse with Nailblog on Monday afternoon. Thanks to Goody, Sorbicol and Simian for sharing the horror of deformed and missing toenails with us all so soon after lunch. I could almost smell them.Tuesday started out with anecdotes, condolences and sick jokes about Keith Floyd and Patrick Swayze's deaths. On a gaming front, I asked what people would like to see in future First Person Shooters as the genre evolved. A few suggestions of realistic reloading of weapons (what was the console game that had this?)[there have been lots - are you think of Gears of War's active reload system? Or the weapon jamming in Far Cry 2? - Keef], more environmental reaction to your actions and explosions, more character development and last but certainly not least, "I'd like to have a couple of electrodes to attach to my nipples so that the PS3 can signal its displeasure at my ineptitude during fire-fights...". You really should write to Activision, Craggyisland.In the afternoon chat turned to work, of all things. As the majority of our regulars spend a fair amount of time on here at their employers' expense, we drummed up some plans to rob them more directly of their valuable profit. Unfortunately most of us have to take two weeks off a year at some point. We realised the reason for this was not for our benefit, rather that any fraudulent plans put into effect would be caught in our absence. Fingernails will be gnawed over the Christmas break when our absence is dully noted as having no noticeable effect on productivity across our respective companies....A lot of chat I don't really understand about how easy it is to set up your PS3 as a media hub kicked off the show on Wednesday. I'll stick to putting DVDs and Blu-rays in the disc tray thank you! We then learned the travesty of fate that struck a major blow against Lazybones. Some despicable tea leaf saw fit to pinch his 'Devon thick cut mature cheddar' from the fridge at work! This was more than the Blog would stand for. Torches were lit, a mob was formed and plans were put in place for righteous reprisals. Collectively, our best idea was to put labels on the fridge politely asking the miscreant not to do it again.Thursday saw the Box roll into stream of consciousness territor, where everyone shouted over each other about how good or bad their games or football teams were without much chat about any subject in particular. We eventually got round to the merits of Guitar Hero 5 versus Beatles Rock Band. Whilst the Beatles effort is too short and easy, it seems to be the more fun experience. With Guitar Hero 5, according to GhostDaz, "The notes you play seem to have little resemblance to what is going on in the songs. They seem to believe that difficulty is purely related to making you strum lots of notes very fast." In my experience it's incredibly realistic - I was booed off the stage drumming to the easiest songs.A small debate was drummed up[was that pun intentional? - Keef]in exactly what the last good Ewen McGregor film was, which saw some sections of the blog shamefully admit to having enjoyed the musical Guys and Dolls. None of the resident BlogDolls cared to comment on this. Our girls also missed a chance to increase the average value of engagement rings. With none of the fairer sex around to seduce us with their charms, we decided one month's wages was plenty to spend on a rock.Plumdozer popped in from the articles to state his disbelief in Chubster2010's 360 purchase. For those who still don't know, Chubster2010 has been replaced by an Xbot. There are Red Rings of Death in his eyes.Friday got off to an incredibly confusing start with not one, but two boxes for us to post in! Game villains and last bosses were discussed, with Bowser, Sephiroth, and the Sith lords in K.O.T.O.R. quite rightly claiming their stakes in gaming history.After the BBC show Watchdog aired it's remarkably biased views against Sony, the Blog was rather quick to slate the show (rather than necessarily jumping to Sony's defense). Nicki Campbell was abused, Anne Robinson even more so, as were most of the researchers. I would ask who watches this rubbish, but the answer appears to be most of us!The PES2010 demo certainly sparked a good bit of conversation. More of the same by all accounts, so it will remain the 'Box's football game of choice this season. Goody is once again in charge of the league, so pop into the Chatterbox and say hello if you are interested. He does have an extensive list of terms and conditions to sign up to, but he's open to bribery of almost any sort. We all decided to go into training and headed out to get sloshed for the weekend.Welcome:dylillama, Citizen5926Quote of the week"My biggest fear is that someone will ask me to explain what I am talking about."EasilyLead has at least one thing in common with Stephen Hawking.Other quotes"There are at least 100 people on there faster than me I'd say."Silveryfox admits he can be beaten at Wipeout HD if you are a nocturnal agoraphobic Japanese teenager."Haven't you heard of torrents and downloading illegal copies of movies? I certainly haven't."OfficePest likes to keep his back covered."Perhaps someone confused it with a large, soggy pad of post-it notes? A 'brieminder' if you will."Zooey74 gets terrible pun of the week award for remarking on Lazybone's missing cheese slices.MoviesDistrict 9, Max Payne, Rise of the Foot Soldier, Iron Man, Black, Zombie Girl Vs Frankenstein Girl, Adventureland, Funny People.MusicMuse, Noah and the Whale, Mount Eerie, David Thomas Broughton.GamesScribblenauts, Uncharted 2 multiplayer Beta, Wipeout HD, PES2009, Monster Hunter Freedom Unite, Halo 3, Batman: Arkham Asylum, Mafia Wars, Lost Odyssey, Braid, Infamous, Mini Ninjas,
Money. Would you spend it on apps? It seems apposite to ask, since something of an argument has blown up inside the blogosphere over the upcoming release of Tweetie 2, a Twitter client (Twitter haters, your work is done) for the iPhone for which the developer, Loren Brichter,says - gasp! - that he will be charging $3for the paid-for version, just as with the first one. And you don't get a free upgrade from version 1. You want version 2, you pay for it.Wait - you mean the updated version costs again? Yup, that's right. It's outraged a number of people, such as Just Another iPhone Blog (call them JAIB), whichsays Tweetie 2 will "spit on existing old app users"on the grounds that "the whole 'it's a completely new app' argument seems like utter bullshit to me. It is still a Twitter app for **** [sic] sake. A slew of new features and functionality does not, to me, make it a different app."So the argument is that building a new framework around the content (which is free) shouldn't attract a charge. It's not clear whether JAIB would pay for a Twitter account; we'll leave that hanging.But now to add to the context, PaidContent has a post thatsays that the Guardian (that's us) is planning to launch a paid-for iPhone app:digital director Emily Bell told [PaidContent]: "It's still in development, but we are working on an app which I can't give you too much more detail on at the moment, although we are likely to charge."She added that getting apps into the app store is an "unpredictable business", quite reasonably making a launch date difficult to give;The Spectator's paid-for iPhone apptook three months to get clearance from Apple.So while the main guardian.co.uk website will remain free (Bell recentlyreacted stronglyin rejecting a pay wall for Guardian.co.uk), it appears that its iPhone app itself will be paid-for, unlike several Guardian rivals.I don't know about the iPhone app or pricing plans or stuff like that. PaidContent (whose parent company I must point out is owned by Guardian Media Group, which also owns the Guardian and guardian.co.uk) seems to have what you need.Here's the interesting question. The announcement about Tweetie's pricing suggests that people don't think they should pay for rewritten apps (though of course they will pay for the hardware and the connectivity - £30 per month upwards). The announcement about the Guardian seeking to offer a paid iPhone app leaves open the possibility of charging for *extra* content in the app. (The Spectator does, for example.) A Guardian spokesperson said: "Initially it will be a one-off charge. We are committing to offering a core level of service for the one-off charge but that doesn't rule out the possibility of charging for extra functionality at some point in the future."The content that a news organisation puts out isn't identical every day; it's sort of like building an app each day. (More tightly frameworked, but similar, if you get my drift.)So which is really worth paying for? The software that provides the framework for the content? The content that hangs off the framework provided by the software? Both? Neither? What's the balance? Let us know in the comments.
If videogames are the new Hollywood – a common refrain among the industry's executives – thenEA Sportsis the 21st century equivalent of one of the old-time studios. It is, after all, an unashamedly populist entertainment company that turns out crowd-pleasing blockbuster sequels. For EA Sports, its big titles — such as Fifa, Madden NFL and Tiger Woods Golf — are the gaming equivalent of cinematic favourites James Bond or Batman: enduring franchises that can be relied on to get bums on seats.But while yearly updates are the cornerstone of EA Sports's success, the strategy is often derided by purists. They lash out at the company for simply churning out incremental improvements on an annual basis and laugh at fans for splashing out each year. In fact, the complaint is so common that even David Rutter – the producer in charge of the Fifa series – admits to having had his doubts in the past."I know before I came to Electronic Arts – and for a long time – I used to look at what EA Sports did with their yearly franchise iterations with a little bit of a sneer on my face, and think they were just fleecing everyone," he says.These days, unsurprisingly, he disagrees with that assessment. "If you actually look at the stuff we put in year to year, not just the new kits or players or graphical enhancements, if you look at the volume of features that we're putting in and the amount of games that are played of Fifa year on year, and how long the lifespan of our game lasts, I think it's very good value for money."That opinion will be put to the test on Friday with the launch of Fifa 10, the latest instalment of the world's biggest football game. It certainly promises big things. The game has received astounding reviews and most critics believe it will continue to outpace its main rival –Konami's Pro Evolution Soccer(PES), which has a new version due at the end of October.The underdog has its dayThis is important to Rutter and his team not just because Fifa is one of EA Sports's biggest titles, but also because it is part of a remarkable turnaround over recent years. For the best part of the past decade, Fifa has been locked in a grim title tussle with PES. For years, the difference between the two was fairly clear cut — Fifa was the official franchise that looked good but often lacked soul while critics praised the underdog PES for its high-quality gameplay.In recent years, however, Fifa has been improving drastically – until, with the 2009 version, the unthinkable happened: reviewers consistently rated Fifa the best football game around. This was no coincidence, but the result of a concerted effort to improve the game's quality — and looking at the inner workings of Fifa, it is clear that vast effort goes into producing it.As with most modern blockbuster games, Fifa has a huge staff. About 60 people work full-time on the title, improving the gameplay, mechanics and artificial intelligence with each iteration. Visually, the graphics continue to improve and are closing in swiftly on photorealism. A separate audio team, meanwhile, spend weeks recording countless variations of in-game commentary across a spread of languages (in English, the duties are performed by Sky Sports team Martin Tyler and Andy Gray).All of this doesn't even begin to touch on the work of the 10-strong stats team, who run a network of hundreds of informal scouts and volunteers who monitor how thousands of players around the world are performing. The vast, sprawling operation – run out of an enormous campus outside Vancouver – is all part of trying to get the game to accurately reflect real life.But the most important improvements in recent years have come in online play. Today, thousands of gamers play simultaneously in matches featuring up to 10 active players on each side."At peak times, which is about 8.30pm to 9.30pm GMT, we have anywhere between 30,000 and 50,000 people playing Fifa constantly on one platform and the same on the other. So you're looking at 100,000 gamers playing Fifa. For me, if we were fleecing people for money you wouldn't be seeing that a long, long time after release."Lethal in the boxThat development raises other questions. If online play is so important, why does EA need to release a new boxed version each year? Couldn't they silence critics by delivering online updates that keep up to date with at the start of each season?"It's a good question, and we get asked it quite a bit," says Rutter. "Strategically I think it's something in the future that will become increasingly important. [But] we are a packaged goods videogames company – what we try to do is make money from videogames."Convincing buyers to spend £50 on a downloadable package would most likely be difficult – even if it updated the game mechanics or graphics engine. And lower prices would have an impact on profits, therefore leading to the long-term deterioration of the game.Sticking with traditional boxed games is a pragmatic approach to the internet that almost seems contrary in a world where going online seems to drive the price of everything down. But this, perhaps, is one of the games industry's big secrets: big names like Electronic Arts are effectively turning boxed games into an annual subscription for online play, which in turn gives gamers more playing time and makes them more loyal to the product.That gives the team at EA at least a little breathing room – and despite the huge leaps taken in recent years, Rutter says there is still room for improvement. "Every time I watch a real football match, every game you watch, you see something that happens that our game just can't do," he says. "For us I think there's a few things ... we've got lists already of things that we want to get to, things we want to try. I don't think we'll ever be happy."Bobbie Johnson travelled to EA Canada studios as a guest of Electronic Arts
After complaints about American dominance of the internet and growing disquiet in some parts of the world, Washington has said it will relinquish some control over the way the network is run and allow foreign governments more of a say in the future of the system.Icann – the official body that ultimately controls the development of the internet thanks to its oversight of web addresses such as .com, .net and .org – said today that it was ending its agreement with the US government.The deal, part of a contract negotiated with the US department of commerce, effectively pushes California-based Icann towards a new status as an international body with greater representation from companies and governments around the globe.Icann had previously been operating under the auspices of the American government, which had control of the net thanks to its initial role in developing the underlying technologies used for connecting computers together.But the fresh focus will give other countries a more prominent role in determining what takes place online, and even the way in which it happens – opening the door for a virtual United Nations, where many officials gather to discuss potential changes to the internet.Icann chief Rod Beckstrom, a former Silicon Valley entrepreneur and Washington insider who took over running the organisation in July, said there had been legitimate concerns that some countries were developing alternative internets as a way of routing around American control."It's rumoured that there are multiple experiments going on with countries forking the internet, various countries have discussed this," he said. "This is a very significant shift because it takes the wind out of our opponents."He added that the changes would prove powerful when combined with upcoming plans to allow web users to use addresses with names in Chinese, Arabic or other alphabets other than Latin. Many countries have lobbied for the shift in recent years, as the expansion of the web reaches out deeper into society and business.While the issue reached critical mass in emerging economies such as China, it is not the only country that has lobbied for a change. Earlier this year European officials said that they did not think it was proper for America to retain so much control over the global computer network.Viviane Reding, the EU's commissioner for information society and media, said she was pleased that Washington chose to make the shift."I welcome the US administration's decision to adapt Icann's key role in internet governance to the reality of the 21st century," she said. "If effectively and transparently implemented, this reform can find broad acceptance among civil society, businesses and governments alike."Meanwhile Nominet - the British organisation that handles the day-to-day running of .uk domain names - said that Icann had started a trend for companies with internet influence to appear more open and accountable."Putting public interest first will also be a focus for the UK internet community over the coming months as there is growing support for Nominet to develop more of a public interest role," said Nominet's chief executive, Lesley Cowley.The new agreement comes into force immediately. It replaces the old version which had been in place since 1998 and was scheduled to expire today.Beckstrom suggested that bringing more countries to the table was the best way of ensuring the long term future of the internet."We're more global, period. The chances of the internet holding together just went up, the cohesion just went up," he said. "We expect more active involvement from governments, a higher level of participation from many governments and we're already hearing about more governments joining the team… This was, ironically, a power move from the US."
It's not just Gordon Brown who is finding life tough these days: things are hard for everyone at the moment, including a great number of startups. But London web firmHuddle- which makes web-based collaboration and project management software - is hoping that it can buck the trend with a slew of announcements to help drive it to the next level.The company thinks that its latest announcements - integration with Microsoft Office, built-in web conferencing and an iPhone application that lets users access files on the go - can push it forward against rivals like Lotus and WebEx.The company's founders, Alastair Mitchell and Andy McLoughlin, are familiar faces on the London startup scene - where they sponsor regular entrepreneurial meets under the banner of DrinkTank. But they're also hoping to move beyond the UK and expand rapidly in America, opening a sales office in San Francisco early next year to try and keep their growth - revenues of around £1m this year - heading up.I met up with McLoughlin this week to discuss the company's progress and he pointed out that Huddle has already scooped deals with big names likeconferencing company InterCalland the business network LinkedIn.He also said that the company, which took £3m in funding from Eden Ventures in 2007, is getting ready to raise a new round of investment (its second) to help it grow - as well as signing a deal with a major PC manufacturer to get the software on around 25 million business desktops worldwide. So far it looks like the economic crisis is providing them with an opportunity rather than killing them off.
Amy Barzdukas has one of the computer industry's more thankless tasks: she's general manager for Internet Explorer and consumer security at Microsoft. But it doesn't seem to have got her down. When we met in London, she was bright, smart, and utterly charming, though some of her answers had the polish that probably comes from giving them a bit too frequently. Microsoft security issues have been a constant topic for the past decade.Microsoft has greatly improved the security of its coding since the dark days of Windows XP and Internet Explorer 6, and most criminals have now changed their approach to social engineering, phishing and other indirect attacks. "The impetus today is really about financial gain," said Barzdukas, "and as we've moved to lock areas down, they've found it easier just to trick people."Whether there's any prospect of financial gain for Microsoft is another matter. Until this summer, Barzdukas offered home users a comprehensive security, tuning and backup service –Microsoft OneCare– but it seems not enough of them were willing to pay for it. Now she's launching the security part as a free service, which she codenamedMorroafter a beach resort she stayed at in Brazil."The [Morro] engine is the same as the one that drives Forefront and that drove OneCare, but our focus was to make a very lightweight and performant security solution that also has a level of quality backed by Microsoft's researchers around the world," she said.Mainstream appealForefront is the security service that Microsoft sells to businesses and Forefront/OneCare/Morro have been tested by most independent sites such asav-comparatives.organdVirus Bulletin. "So far, we've been doing extremely well," said Barzdukas. No doubt the specialist antivirus companies will claim that they do a better job, but Microsoft's engine seems to be competitive, and it's aimed at the people that the specialist companies have so far failed to reach.This is particularly the case in what Microsoft calls "developing nations".ButMicrosoft Security Essentials– a free product launched on Tuesday – could raise more political questions than technical ones. Will the European Commission's competition department try to stop Microsoft from defending its OS, because some other companies – mainlySymantecandMcAfee– make a lot of money by charging for protection?Since Symantec and McAfee are well known for complaining to the EC, I asked Barzdukas if she thought the EC would try to block it. (We met before the launch.)"Our party line: we are committed to working within the regulatory environment of all of the countries in which we do business," she said, sweetly. "Microsoft Security Essentials will launch in an environment where there are already a number of no-cost players, so it's not reinventing the model. We're really focused on doing the right thing for the customer."I've worked on the consumer security side since 2002, and the data have not shifted significantly in terms of the number of consumers who either don't have antivirus software or don't keep it up to date," she said. "As incidences of malware continue to grow more pernicious, stepping up the work for consumers who are either unable or unwilling to pay for protection is what Morro's about."Barzdukas said "Morro is just one piece of what my team looks after: IE is the other. The security advancements we've seen in IE8 go hand in hand with addressing the problem of socially engineered software downloads. With the SmartScreen filter in IE8, we find we're blocking 20 times as much malware as we are phishing. The security landscape we used to worry about – mass-mailer worms and so on – are not really in style any more. It turns out, when you want to rob people, it's better to be quiet and not call too much attention to yourself."While it's useful to stop people being robbed, I also wonder whether people should be allowed to keep their infected PCs on the net. Some of these PCs are in botnets that are pumping out spam or being used to attack other people's servers, so there are arguments for either blocking their internet access or cleaning up their PCs remotely.In the balanceMicrosoft already does some of this policing by running its MSRT (Malicious Software Removal Tool) on PCs that it is updating, but they have to opt in. In a networked society, where people are infecting their neighbours, could it and should it do more?"We try to look at the balance of doing what we can to protect the ecosystem, and doing it to the appropriate level while respecting regulatory concerns, the partner environment and so on. There are widely divergent viewpoints on how much anybody wants their PC to be managed by somebody else. And it's your laptop, after all," said Barzdukas."It puts more emphasis on all of the different people in the ecosystem: What is the role of an ISP in terms of protecting their portion of the network? What is the role of enterprise IT administrators now there's a blurring between home and work PCs? What is the role of software and hardware manufacturers? To what extent is Dell or Asus responsible for helping ensure that you have a good experience? What is the role of the individual? No one group can do it alone," she said."The problem is that you've got consumers who can barely handle a firewall prompt [asking] whether they want to allow an application to use port whatever. Consumers aren't that technical. What we think at Microsoft is that we have to make it simple, and in Windows 7 we've tried to do that: we've corrected things where we hadn't done as good a job in previous versions of Windows to make [security] easy, accessible and effective. In IE8, we've tried to make it hard for you to do the wrong thing."But with the move to social engineering attacks, there isn't a technical fix that would remove the malware problem completely …"I don't think anybody in the antivirus area of the company thinks there will be a time when there will be no more malware," said Barzdukas. "What we look forward to is continuing our ability to protect against malware, and to make those protections more robust and less prone to requiring constant updating."Windows 7 and IE8 represent a huge advance on Windows XP and IE6, from that point of view. Whether that will be enough remains to be seen.
Having data is one thing – but being able to present it in interesting ways is often just as important. Maps are, of course, the perfect example of data visualisation; but the Department of Communities and Local Government has now launched a portal that aims to show all of government how best to display data to bring out the stories hidden beneath the numbers.A newly-launched site,Datavizcarries the tagline "Improving data visualisation for the public sector", and carries a number of examples and case studies of representations of data from government.Although the site shows some signs of having been launched in a hurry, by DCLG and the spin-out research consultancy Oxford Consultants for Social Inclusion (OCSI), it may become important as a portal, and perhaps even subsequently as a repository, for shareable tools for data visualisation.One tool already linked through the site was developed by South Tyneside council, which wanted to be able to identify the effects of the recession on employment, and check that accurate information was available.But so farthe gallery of examplesrelies heavily on examples produced outside central government – such as the Centre for Advanced Spatial Analysis (CASA) at University College London, which provides a street-view mapping of air quality, and another showing where London's tube lines really run on a 3D map, or Brighton &amp; Hove council's mapping of homes near certain shops, and annotations – on a Google map – by West Sussex to show travel information. (The Guardian also figures, with itsrollover map by area of under-18 profiles on the national DNA database.)While the site – and especially its gallery – offer an excellent guide to data visualisation, there is still one glaring omission: a guide to where to find freely usable data from central government. Is there a chance that someone could chart it, and let us know when it's done?Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog
A new organisation, Digital Radio UK, wasannouncedat the end of September with "the task of getting the UK ready for digital radio upgrade". This is "a new consumer-facing brand," which means it will try to flog the UK's technically obsolete DAB (digital audio broadcasting) system to a public that can't see the point, because good old-fashioned FM already works pretty well.The new strategy seems to be based on the idea that the supply-side problems of digital radio have been solved, and that it's just a matter of tackling the demand side. But that's nonsense. The supply side is still a disaster.First, not enough people have DAB radios, and there are hardly any in cars. Second, DAB doesn't yet have enough transmitters to provide good reception nationwide. Third, the sound quality is inferior to FM. Fourth, there's too little unique content on DAB to attract people to buy new DAB radios.Some of these problems could be solved by updating the UK's digital radio system to the new world standard, DAB+. This uses a more efficient AAC codec instead of MP2, which means broadcasters could improve the sound quality of existing stations and provide more stations for less cost.The UK radio industry does not have the guts to do this, because it would have to admit its past mistakes. It has sold the public millions of digital sets that only work with DAB and cannot be upgraded to DAB+. It cannot admit that these sets will become obsolete, although it appears perfectly happy to make more than 100m perfectly good FM sets obsolete.Unfortunately, even if we had a radio industry – or a government – prepared to face unpalatable truths, that wouldn't solve the fourth problem: lack of compelling content. And the situation is getting worse, not better.A string of stations including TheJazz, Mojo and Islam Radio closed last year. Even success doesn't add up to much. According toGrant Goddard's excellent Radio Blog: "The most listened-to exclusively digital radio station in London is BBC 1Xtra, which ranks 22nd and attracts only a 0.5% share of listening in the market [Rajar 2009 Q2]." If London's only legal black music station can't find an audience on DAB, what can?As Goddard points out, most people could only get four or five TV stations, so they were attracted to the new channels and new content they could get by going digital (Sky, Freeview, cable etc). But most people can get 14 radio stations – eight national and six local – and that's already more than they need. Most of us only listen to one or two.Indeed, Ofcom's research for the first quarter of 2009 shows that 91% of people are satisfied with the choice of radio stations in their area, and only 3% are dissatisfied. I wonder if the 3% realise that they can expand their choice to many thousands of stations by tuning in to the internet, possibly with a Wi-Fi radio. The internet, satellite and cable already offer far more choice than DAB ever will (though getting them in a moving car is another matter).Today, the number of FM radios in the UK is still growing faster than the number of DAB radios, because many MP3 players and most DAB sets now include FM as well.There's not even a strong financial incentive. The best idea that Lord Carter's Digital Britain report could come up with was to reuse the FM wavebands for local radio. I can't see any government going to the stake for that.Of course, if the BBC wants to give up all its FM bandwidth to national commercial stations and move exclusively to DAB, that would make life interesting.
Unless you're an undertaker, chances are you spend as little time as possible thinking about death. Eventually, however, most of us get round to drawing up a will. Beneficiaries for houses, cars, stocks and shares must all be decided upon. But who gets your email account?Although people increasingly live their lives online, few bother to specify what should happen to their digital assets once they log off for good. But failure to plan for the digital afterlife can cause problems for those left to sort out the affairs of the deceased. Without a username and password family members can struggle to access valuable web domains, online accounts – even photographs and documents on a PC."People aren't very aware of what you might call their living online legacy – potential employers looking at their Facebook accounts, for example. The issue of what happens to that information after their death is an extension of that," says Yorick Wilks, a senior research fellow at the Oxford Internet Institute.Locked outTom Stuart was an active eBay member until he passed away in November 2007. His son, Darren, believes there could be up to £1,000 in his father's PayPal account. But he has been unable to gain access: his father left no will and no indication of what the password might be.Stuart emailed the account review team in March 2008 in the hope of withdrawing any funds in the account. "All I got back was an automated response," he says. "I phoned the customer services department and eventually got put through to someone. He wanted a solicitor's letter saying I was the executor of the estate. I told him, 'We don't have that information. There was no will.' And the response was basically, 'That's our policy.' "If someone dies intestate then a copy of the death certificate and proof of next of kin – which Stuart possessed – is typically all that is required to release funds from an account if the amount is under £5,000."The bank, the life insurance company, his pension provider – they were all happy to deal with us. All of them except for PayPal. We just gave up in the end. We didn't have what they wanted, and they weren't going to give us access."When asked to clarify PayPal's policy regarding access to a deceased individual's account, a spokesperson said that "certain documents such as a copy of the death certificate, the will and photo ID for the executor" were needed. It is now looking into Stuart's case.David Hardie, a solicitor specialising in wills and probate at law firm Pannone, said he is yet to come across someone wanting to add digital assets to their will. "The generations that are into these services have not by and large started dying yet. So as probate practitioners, we have not yet seen the problems that could emerge." By default digital assets are "the property of the estate, even if they're property with no value". Some assets, such as blogs and photographs, may also be subject to intellectual property law.Facebook puts the profile of deceased person into a memorial state upon notification of their death. Their status is removed, they are withdrawn from any groups and access is set to "friends only". Facebook encourages people to use the profile to remember the deceased. They will, however, remove it at the request of the next of kin.Donna Rawling lost her husband, Tom Cooper, in July last year. "I managed to wrap up his affairs, but the area that I was left with was his presence on the web," she says. Tom was a motorcycle enthusiast, visiting many different countries on his bike and posting pictures of his travels on his blog. He was also a member of Friends Reunited and probably "a myriad of other sites" 0f which Rawling is unaware. She describes his continuing presence on the web as "eerie", and would like some of the information removed."Normally you get in touch with friends and acquaintances and colleagues and let them know what's happened," she says. "That gives you closure and stops you being contacted in future and asked how you both are. But to my knowledge, there's no way of doing that with the web. The perception is that he is still alive and well and having fun on his motorbike."Digital depositSeveral new companies aim to help people avoid such situations. After setting up an account with Legacy Locker, users can upload login details for digital assets and specify who will receive them posthumously. AssetLock offers a similar "electronic safe deposit box", while Slightly Morbid allows members to send an email from beyond, giving them the ultimate final word. Deathswitch is an automated system that prompts users for their password on a regular basis. If it has not been received after several prompts, the system deduces the user is "dead or critically disabled" and messages are sent to pre-selected recipients.More than 1,500 people have signed up to Legacy Locker since its launch in April, paying $299.99 for a lifetime subscription. Founder Jeremy Toeman claims the practicalities of modern life – new online services that require the creation of yet another username and password, the regular changing of old ones by security conscious individuals – can make adding passwords to a will impractical.But Legacy Locker's large repository of passwords makes it a virtual El Dorado for the hacking community. And with the average UK lifespan now 81 years, could the company not expire before its customers do? Perhaps unsurprisingly, Toeman says "security and longevity" were his two main priorities when establishing the company. He claims their security measures exceed the standards established by banks and other financial institutions, and include human oversight. Plans to secure the future of Legacy Locker in the event of his death are also under way.If you want to retain control over your own online legacy, it might be worth making your wishes clear before your final status update.
The third incarnation of Apple's iPod nano brings two features that at once put it on a par with two other groups of device: FM radio reception, which brings it up to date with pretty much every other mid-priced non-Apple digital music player for the past five years; and video recording, which puts it on a par with the Flip devices that are selling like hot cakes.It also ushers in one of the worst pieces of usability design I've ever seen on an Apple product. But we'll come to that.After Steve Jobs impossibly pulled the first iPod nano from his jeans' change pocket in 2005, the design has gone from long and thin (but only able to display photos) to short and squat (but video-playing enabled) and back to long and thin. The shape doesn't evolve so much as mutate. Happily, the new screen is far more scratch-resistant than the first generation. Like Joseph's coat, it comes in many colours; unlike it, prices range from £115 (8GB) to £135 (16GB).By now you know the routine for an iPod: cover art, "Genius" playlists that can be created on the fly from a single track (usually, I find, closely matching the artist and/or year), a couple of games, a fiddly screen lock. The new nano has also got "VoiceOver", which will tell you the name of the track playing in a Stephen Hawking-style disembodied voice. And rubbish earbuds. (Truly, it is time Apple improved this aspect of its product. The standard ones are shockingly bad.)And so to the new. The FM tuner is serviceable, as they are on all such devices: if you could buy headphone leads 2 metres long, you'd probably get a good signal. It does add the ability to pause the stationwhich is neat; I suspect it uses the video processing chip to compress the radio signal, so probably uses about 3.6MB for 10 minutes of storage. You're unlikely to run out of radio storage in a hurry).As with previous iPod nanos, there's no Wi-Fi, so you can't connect to the iTunes App Store; the battery wouldn't survive it anyway. But of course there is the video recording, the peculiar stand-out in the new iPod releases: the nano got it but its bigger sibling, the iPod Touch, doesn't – although the new iPhone 3GS does. This is a very odd differentiation in Apple's product line, rumoured to be due to manufacturing problems getting the video camera into the Touch.You realise this must be true when you try to use the nano's video, and find yourself filming your fingers. Why? Because unlike every cameraphone or Flip or mini-camcorder you've ever used or seen, the nano's lens is at the bottom of the device. You have to turn it upside down to get your hand out of the way. This is absurd, a usability car crash. The video quality is good – 640 by 480 at 30 frames per second – as is the automatic light adjustment. But novices were at first puzzled and then scornful of the design. You can upload it to YouTube or Facebook once it's connected to a computer. Pity about that Wi-Fi, then.Overall? A worthy evolution, but the camera placement is a Neanderthal diversion that needs correction.Pros: sleek design, FM pause, video&nbsp;recording  Cons: terrible video usability, cheap earbuds  apple.com/ukstore
Yes, according to Microsoft – the maker of the world's most popular web browser, Internet Explorer. But it turns out that's only one part of the story.Chrome Frame (httpis a little piece of code, launched last week, which is one of the cheekiest technological stunts in recent memory. Essentially, it is a piece of software that plugs in to IE (6, 7 and 8) and fools it into behaving exactly like Google's Chrome browser. It is a cuckoo's egg, carefully placed in Microsoft's nest by its biggest enemy.The idea is that Chrome Frame offers web developers the chance to use cutting-edge technologies IE doesn't support, as well as giving them the chance to apply web standards that IE currently ignores.Prospects like that appeal to designers and programmers, who spend vast amounts of time coming up with tricks and workarounds to overcome some of IE's deficiencies.And, there is also the handy side effect of increasing acceptance of the Chrome browser – which is still only used by around 3% of web users, despite being released more than a year ago. (Microsoft's chief executive, Steve Ballmer, recently called Chrome's market share "a rounding error, to date" in aninterview with TechCrunch.)Faced by such chutzpah, Microsoft reacted by slamming its rival with a big issue: security. Using Chrome Frame, it said, would expose users to all sorts of nasty things the latest version of IE will protect them from.An official statement put the situation bluntly: "Given the security issues with plug-ins in general, and Google Chrome in particular, Google Chrome Frame running as a plug-in has doubled the attach area for malware and malicious scripts."That would be accurate if Google was simply going head to head with IE8 – which has seriously enhanced its security features. But it is a more tenuous claim given that Google's real target looks to be the older versions of IE, which are still the most popular browsers on the web.According to figures fromNet Applications, IE is used by around two-thirds of all web users – but just 17% of users have opted for IE8 so far.Instead, one in five surfers still uses the previous version, IE7, and an astonishing 25% of web users still use IE6 – now eight years old and riven with unpatched security holes.Indeed, so bad is IE6's bad reputation that the general manager for Internet Explorer, Amy Barzdukas, has told the Guardian that the company would prefer if everybody moved away from using it as soon as possible.So, while Chrome Frame might expose some users to extra security risks, it will not change things for the majority of IE's millions of users. The question is whether it can also act as a back door to get people using Chrome – and that will only be answered over time.
You have a task: count around 10m votes. You discover there are two alternative solutions for doing the count. Both will take about the same time; both can be verified by checking back; but one is done by humans and one is done largely by machines. Which do you pick?If your instinct is to go for the cheaper one you're not thinking like theGreater London Assembly, which indicated last week that it will go with electronic counting systems for the May 2012 elections. This is despite having a cost-benefit analysis prepared by its own returning officers, (who preside over ballot counts) which calculates that manual counting will cost £3.6m, and e-counting £5.1m – making it 42% more expensive.Yet Leo Boland, the chief executive at London City Hall, whotook office in January (http, told theOpen Rights Groupand other attendees at a round table that he would go ahead with e-counting for the 2012 elections.The move has amazed the Open Rights Group (ORG), a campaigning group on digital rights and civil liberties, which opposes the idea of e-counting unless it can be shown to be as robust and affordable as manual counting."What are the benefits of e-counting? The GLA says it's faster and cheaper and more modern," says Jason Kitcat, a member of the ORG advisory group who is also head of technology for the websiteNetmums. "But it isn't faster. In the 2007 trials, all but one [e-counting trial] took longer or as long as manual counts."It may seem contradictory for a group that seeks to represent people's digital rights to be insisting on the retention of a counting system that has been in use for hundreds of years. Not so, says Kitcat: "We're pro-technology; some of our members are computer scientists from Oxford and Cambridge. But the benefits the GLA claims aren't there. It doesn't seem a rational place to spend time and money on this when they could spend it on better public services."Glitches in the systemE-counting is separate from e-voting (which has attracted controversy of its own). It uses scanners to count ballot papers, and the votes on them, automatically. That differs completely from electronic voting, in which voters cast their ballots onto electronic systems, which then record their choices.But e-counting was severely criticised when it was used in May 2007 in Scotland, and caused a number of delays and led to roughly 140,000 votes – around 7% of the total votes cast – going uncounted. There were also problems with the tabulation software that e-counting relies on.DRS Data Services, which supplied the machines used there, told the BBC that the delays were caused by "a small issue" and that it was "a temporary interruption to one small aspect of the overall process".The London elections though are unusually complicated – rather like the those in Scotland in 2007, which used two different voting systems (first past the post, like national elections and "additional member system") on a single ballot, as well as a single transferable vote election on another ballot.The GLA elections also use all three systems: first past the post for some appointments, a transferable vote for the mayor's office, and "allocated member systems" – a form of proportional representation – for others. The perceived complications in counting votes cast against the three different systems means it adopted e-counting for the three previous elections using the system, in 2000, 2004 and 2008. It argued counting by hand would be too slow and expensive – though without any actual evidence.Critical observationThat has been criticised, but the difficulty of getting "observer" status to the elections meant the objections of groups such as ORG were muted. But in 2008 the group did achieve formal observer status to the voting and the counting – and did not like what it saw.Itsexecutive summary of its reportinto the counting declared that: "There is insufficient evidence available to allow independent observers to state reliably whether the results declared in the May 2008 elections for the Mayor of London and the London Assembly are an accurate representation of voters' intentions."But in afactsheet for the 2008 elections, London Elects, the group that runs the London elections, insisted that "e-counting has been chosen … because it is an accurate way to count the votes and it would take too long to count the votes by hand". At the time it put the total cost of e-counting at £4.6m; a company called Indra, from Spain, won the contract.Now it puts the cost higher. And ORGargues that the cost of a manual count has been inflated(by assuming it could not be combined into fewer halls as the e-count would be), while also assuming that the electronic version would not have any excess costs. That could make the cost gap wider.The GLA, in its analysis, suggests that e-count contractors may be able to push their prices down – perhaps far enough to make them competitive with a manual count. Yet the only definitive disadvantage of a manual count that is offered is that it would not provide ward-level analyses of voting patterns.The Electoral Commission, the independent body which aims to give people confidence in the democratic process, said in a report on the 2008 London elections that: "Neither a business case nor cost-benefit analysis was prepared to inform the major project decisions." It recommended a cost-benefit analysis – as has now been done – and a business case "so that major project decisions are made in an informed manner."Get your act togetherIt is that desire to make decisions in an informed manner that is behind last week's announcement, according to John Bennett, deputy returning officer for London. He told Technology Guardian: "We've started this process early because the lesson we learnt last year is that we needed to have the contract in place 20 months before the election, so that the suppliers could get their act together, do testing and so on. With a view to awarding it by September next year, we have to make a start about now." A formal EU tender to do the job is due to go out in the near future, Bennett says – although he had not seen the response of the Electoral Commission to the cost-benefit analysis, which was not due to be delivered until Wednesday.Bennett, who has been involved in the counting process at every election in London since 1964, says the GLA is not wedded to the idea of e-counting. On what basis, then, will he and Boland evaluate the e-counting bids against the manual version? Cost? Reliability? Speed? And what is there that might make him turn down e-counting? He edges around the question: "We've had it in the last three [London] elections and [the results] reflect the will of the people," Bennett says. As to which criteria will determine e-counting's success, though, he won't say.
We have an interview with Amy Barzdukas, head of Internet Explorer and Microsoft's consumer security, in this week's Technology section (print! It's fun!). But ahead of that physical (and web) manifestation, there'sMicrosoft's Security Essentialsformerly codenamed Morro, released yesterday, downloadable now.Toquote Computer Weekly,The 5MB download runs on any Windows PC from Windows XP SP2 onwards, including Windows Vista and the forthcoming Windows 7. Cliff Evans, head of security and privacy at Microsoft, said the product has been designed to be quick to install and is able to run on relatively low-powered PCs.It updates its heuristics every four hours and analyses your own system to see if there is any "malware-like behaviour" going on. (And yes, it really is only 5MB.) It's a replacement for Windows OneCare (never did like that name, especially not said in a French accent). It won't be included by default in Windows 7, though, so it remains an extra download even there.Interestingly, you'll need to have a validated copy of Windows to run it: so this is virus protection, but not to protect those with pirated products. As machines running hooky versions of Windows which aren't security patched are arguably a prime target for malware, one has to question Microsoft's persistence with this approach.But what do other antivirus vendors think? Alex Eckelberry, chief executive of Sunbelt Software (who we've had on the Tech Weekly podcast in the past)thinksthat1) It is not a Microsoft conspiracy to take over the world, etc. They had to do this in order to beat off Apple, and improve their security posture as a company. They have removed millions of infections using the MSRT tool and they really do need to do something about machines that are not protected — for the good of the rest of us. It is ultimately good for the consumer.2) It will probably not have a major impact on the big incumbent players, but it will likely have a dramatic effect on the free AV players, like AVG and Avira, because many of their installs come from "experts" installing it on PCs (people like your neighbor, or a family member, who installs it on your behalf). These people will likely move to the Microsoft solution. This will take some time but the risk is there. Nag screens, toolbar installs, misleading messages to upgrade, all efforts to monetize a free product piss off users to no end.The incumbents should not underestimate the wrath that many users have about their products. It's not all fair -- there have been many improvements (especially Symantec, which has done a truly remarkable job with their latest releases). But the anger is there, and you see it all the time on listservs, forums, etc. This emotional reaction may play a part in Microsoft getting traction.He makes plenty of other points too (you should read the whole thing) - such as that this won't, despite what you might hope, mean that big players such as Dell will stop selling you PCs with antivirus from other companies preinstalled. That's because they get money for doing that. Why would they stop, just because Microsoft's done something similar for free?The one that will likely have Symantec and others breathing a sigh of relief:The one space that will not be significantly affected is the enterprise/SME side. The MSE product is not manageable, and hence is not really usable in environments over 25 users. (Microsoft does restrict usage to home networks only, although realistically most micro-SMEs won't read the fine print).Other AV vendors aren't troubled either. "It won't be the application that puts Symantec or McAfee out of business," Andrew Storms, the director of security operations at nCircle Network Security,told ComputerWorld. "...Microsoft still has to prove itself in this arena. Take, for example, Windows Defender, which has been free. It's not necessarily the best anti-spyware product available."Let us know your experiences with Security Essentials. And - a warning - it's got one of those informative videos. Though at least it isn't encouraging you to have a Security Essentialsparty.
Once upon a time, theTokyo Game Showwas the biggest videogames event on the planet, a throbbing hive of amazing announcements, bustling demo pods and saucy cos-players. This year's event has warranted only a handful of cursory mentions in the Western games press. "Man, Japan is over. We're done. Our game industry is finished," veteran Capcom game designer Keiji Inafune isquotedas saying on the show floor. A bleak prognosis, but sadly not an unreasonably alarmist one - Hideo Kojimamade similar pointsat the start of the year.Indeed, Japanese game development has been in gradual decline for a decade.Sure, in the eighties and nineties, videogame culture was absolutely dominated by the big arcade releases - an arena monopolised by Japan. What players wanted from their consoles were pixel-perfect adaptations of coin-ops like Double Dragon, Street Fighter II, Daytona USA and Tekken.But in the mid-nineties, new audiences were drawn to the more expensive and intensely marketed PlayStation. At first they lapped up flashy arcade fare like Ridge Racer and Virtual Fighter, but then older gamers started to look for deep long-term challenges instead of quick 'hardcore' thrills; the influence of the arcade waned, and the whole structure of the industry evolved to embrace this change in appetite. Western developers began to create large, hugely ambitious adventure titles - the likes of Tomb Raider and Grand Theft Auto 3 - which drew their influences from Western culture, rather than manga and martial arts. Rockstar North mashed up mature sex and violence in a way that the big Japanese publishers would not even contemplate, kickstarting a massive new trend for adult interactive experiences far removed from the codified ramblings of Devil May Cry and Onimusha with their comic book mythologies and hyper stylised action.At the same time, the first-person shooter became a major console genre, the likes of Halo, Call of Duty and Medal of Honor bringing the PC gaming experience of choice to a ravenous new fanbase. But, Japanese developers had no background in PC development - the market was almost irrelevant in the country - so the whole FPS culture was alien to them. The same goes for the MMORPG phenomenon.Now, PES has relinquished its crown to FIFA, Resident Evil is in crisis after a weakened fifth instalment, Western developers have stolen, modified and globalised the whole rhythm action genre... Currently, the big Japanese publishers seem content to raid their back catalogues to exploit past glories - Capcom with SFIV, Mega Man and Bionic Commando, Namco with Tekken and Splatterhouse, Konami with Silent Hill, Castlevania and Vandal Hearts... The country's major companies have always been insular, always been keenest to appease the domestic market, but the problem is, no-one else is as interested anymore.So, is Japan really finished as a major force in game development?Well, of course not. For a start, you cannot possibly overlook the enormous impact of the Wii - the machine has revolutionalised the whole concept of the console/human interface, while the Fit brand is one of the biggest in the world right now. You also cannot overlook the fact that Sony is still a massive player in the manufacture of games hardware. And on the games side we're looking forward to Gran Turismo 5, Metal Gear Solid: Rising, Final Fantasy XIII, Super Mario Galaxy 2, Last Guardian, Metroid: Other M, a new Professor Layton game from Level-5, whatever Grasshopper Manufacture is currently working on... the list goes on.But more importantly - and on a more profound level - Japan still makes a singular contribution to the videogame culture and community. Japanese developers draw from a unique aesthetic, an approach to iconography, character design and structure that is unfathomable to studios in the west. The concept of kawaii is the obvious manifestation of this - Loco Roco, Pokemon, Puyo Puyo, Harvest Moon, Cooking Mama - none of them could have originated anywhere else. But it goes much deeper than that - into uses of digital space (Echochrome), movement (SFIV), metamorphosis (Resident Evil), psychological horror (Fatal Frame, Silent Hill), time and seasonality (Animal Crossing), etc, etc. Japanese developers are also more likely to toy with the arcane possibilities of the hardware - for example, introducing light sensors (Boktai), getting you to swap controller ports as a tactical gameplay element (Metal Gear Solid) - this isn't all just going to disappear.Look at Nintendo again - after the relative failure of Game Cube everyone had pretty much written off the company, then there was a moment of tangential genius - the Wii - and it's back to the top of the class for Miyamoto and co. Right now, Japanese development teams are embracing Natal; it is likely they will think of stuff that, say, Activision and Ubisoft wouldn't come up with in a hundred years of dedicated R&amp;D. Some of it won't travel, but some of it will be astonishing, epoch-shattering even.This is, though, clearly a period of transition. It seems Japanese publishers are having difficulty adjusting to the mega-budget Hollywood-style development system required to create chart-topping titles for the current gen consoles. Studios wishing to make a global impact are going to have to take a broader cultural outlook - embracing Western tropes and influences. One way to smooth this process is creative co-operation; it's something Capcom has tried with Bionic Commando and Dead Rising 2, both of which were co-operative projects involving in-house Japanese producers and Western studios. It didn't work out with the former (indeed the Bionic Commando developer, GRIN, has now folded), but the Dead Rising sequel looks promising.The game isn't over; Japan has plenty of lives left.
Chatterbox Wednesday
&bull; Can computers become self-aware? That's the hypothesis of a gang of researchers in Silicon Valleywho wants to pool resources to find out if it is possible to create artificial life on the net. According to the New York Times, the scheme - calledEvoGrid- is being modelled after the Seti@Home project which used spare computing cycles on people's PCs to try and analyse signals from space.&bull; Afterstrong reactionsto the previews ofGoogle Waveearlier this year, more than100,000 people will get invites to the system on Wednesday. If you're able to give it a test run, tell us what you think in the comments.&bull; If you're looking for something to do, may I recommend listening to the latest episode of the Guardian'sTech Weekly podcast? With all the excitement about gaming over the past week - Tokyo Games Show, Halo ODST, Nintendo Wii price cuts - we thought we'd chat to the people behind some of the biggest titles in the industry: so Charles and I speak to those who work on theGuitar Herofranchise and forthcomingFifa 10.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
