This is the third in our series of interviews spinning out of last week's article onanonymous workplace bloggers. It follows interviews we have already published withCall Centre ConfidentialandDoing Less Harm."Mr Teacher" writes an anonymous weblog calledThe Report Card.O:When did you start your blog and why? Were other blogs, in particular other job/workplace blogs, an inspiration?Mr Teacher:The Report Card was born on November 3, 2003. Many months before that, a friend had told me she was going to start a blog. I had no idea what blogs were about, so I started reading hers from time to time. That led me to a job-related blog that I could identify with, having worked in that industry in the past. On November 3, I was very frustrated and decided to start my blog to relieve some stress. There will be more detail on my Blogday (the anniversary of the birthday of my blog) this year.O:What were you initially hoping to achieve with the blog? Has your blog (and what you write on it) changed as it's gone on?MrT:Initially, I just wanted a place to vent. That was all. However in May I set up a poll for my regular readers to vote whether they wanted me to continue to post only about work related things, add other things to it or set up a different page for other things. The majority of those who voted wanted me to add other things also.O:What's reaction to it been like so far? Which kinds of entries are the most popular/draw the most comment?MrT:So far, the reaction has been positive. Face it, we all have problems where we work, so I think that people like reading about others' problems and can relate to them. It's hard to say what the most popular posts are about, but I'd have to say that they're posts that involve blatant stupidity.O:You blog anonymously – if you blogged under your real name, how would your blog be different?MrT:I also have a blog under my real name, and it's quite different. It's for my family and closest friends and has completely different posts than The Report Card. It mainly contains observations, thoughts, etc.O:Does anyone from your work read your blog? If so, has anyone guessed that you're behind the blog?MrT:No one from work that I know of reads my blog. Most of my colleagues aren't computer savvy, so I'm not too worried about it. However, if any of my colleagues found it, they'd instantly be able to place names to the pseudonyms.O:Do you see your blog as a purely personal thing – a way of dealing with the everyday frustrations at work – or does it have a more general, possibly political purpose – a kind of low-level whistle-blowing function – letting people know the reality of certain modern jobs?MrT:My blog is definitely a personal thing. It's how I vent the frustration that work causes me. It does let people know about the reality of my job, but certainly is not political.O:Some people have suggested workplace blogs are a kind of rebellion against modern 'overwork' culture (in which people work longer and longer hours, in which work is seen as some sort of defining moral value, in which workers are under more and more surveillance and control, via audits, reviews etc). Do you agree?MrT:Not really. I think that most workplace blogs are set up for people to say the things they would like to say at work, but choose not to (which is probably a good decision). They also want others to know that they're not alone. Everyone puts up with heaps of stupidity at work.O:Why do you think people read your blog? To find out 'the inside truth' about a particular area of modern life?MrT:Yes, people probably read my blog to see an insider's view. Students and parents alike are probably curious to see what goes on behind the scenes at a school. What teachers have to deal with other than students. My blog gives them that opportunity.O:Is what you write on your blog 'the truth' about your job? Or do you sometimes find yourself embellishing slightly, to make the blog more interesting. Bloggers often say that, though they set out to write about the everyday reality of their lives, they find that they've created a kind of alternate persona, which both is them and isn't, at the same time. Perhaps another way of coming at this is to say that blogs can be like stories and, as you build up momentum/audience, is there a temptation to spice things up slightly to keep people hooked?MrT:My blog is the truth. It's not embellished at all. If something happens at work, I try to find a quiet place (usually the toilet) to write it down, including exact quotes.O:Why are anonymous job blogs so popular now? Does it say something about modern work? Or does it say something about blogs and what people think they're best at (eg personal accounts that take you inside a previously hidden world/correct big media assumptions etc)?MrT:In my opinion, the media only care about sensational things that will improve their rating. Blogs like mine are personal accounts that from people who have nothing to gain, which is what I think the public want nowadays.O:What do you hope to achieve with your blog? A way out of your current job? A publishing deal?MrT:My blog is only for fun. It really has no purposes other than for me to vent and also let people know what goes on behind the scenes of a school. I'm a realist and realise that it won't get me out of my, nor will it get me a publishing deal (but I wouldn't complain if it did).O:Is doing your blog still fun? Do you foresee a time when it might feel like another (unpaid) job? If that happened, what would you do?MrT:Yes, The Report Card is still fun to do. I'll continue it until it is no longer fun, whenever that may be. If I change schools (I'll never leave the teaching profession), The Report Card will continue - idiocy can be found at most workplaces.O:Do you feel a sense of responsibility to your readers? By which I mean I think a lot of people read job/workplace blogs and trust that they're telling it like it is about a particular job... Which is another way of saying, do you see yourself as a kind of journalist, with certain responsibilities as a result, or does the blog only have to please you/work for you?MrT:Yes, I feel a sense of responsibility to my readers, which is why it important to me that my blog is 100% truthful. It wouldn't be fair to my readers if I made something up to get more readers. I don't consider myself as a kind of a journalist, however, I do have a certain level of integrity I like to maintain both online and offline.By the way, it'd also be good if you could mention theAnonymous Work Blogs Blogringand, somehow, (subtly) encourage people to start anonymous work blogs and join the ring.Interview by Jim McClellan
If you've been following the posts about political videogames from thegamesblogandothers, you might be interested in the fortchoming exhibitionVideogames with an Agendaat London's Curzon Soho cinema. The art show takes place between 16 October to 7 November and is curated by political games makers Ian Bogost and Gonzalo Frasca, editors ofWater Cooler Games.In short, the exhibition challenges us to consider games that make usthink, exploring independent and commissioned work by artists, designers and wannabe games industry professionals who want to play (and not in a childish way) at subversion.Included in the list of available software are titles which question political motives, challenge current conceptions of mass destruction and confront daily work practices. If you happen to be there to see the big-business-busting documentaryThe Corporation, Videogames with an Agenda should nicely pad out a righteous evening.
"Dr Dre" publishes Doing Less Harm, his pseudonymous, irreverent account of life as an IT worker at "Anytown" NHS trust. He calls the daily online diary a "rebellion against the stupid initiatives that people come up with". The aim, he says, is to make people laugh; but if people come to it "to know more about the NHS, then I hope they find that, too". The blog, he warns, is "95% truthful".The following posting, entitled Hail to the Chief, appeared on August 5:When you think of a chief executive, you think of dynamic leadership, having their finger on the pulse of the organisation, seeing the big picture and possessing great motivational and analytical skills - which makes the following exchange worrying."Dre, it's the chief. I've been looking at this new system you've developed and it's very good but we're really worried over here in headquarters." At this point my heart sinks, I can't believe it. This is my first piece of work and I've put all my effort in to it to impress everyone."This system is causing a major headache, Dre. We just looked on your system and it says our MP is visiting today and we had no idea. Since we saw it, we've spent all day gathering information for him. And then we called his office to confirm what time he was arriving and they didn't know anything about it.""Erm that system is only a demo at the moment, chief, the information was made up just to show you how it could be used."Nice to know that Anytown Trust is in such capable hands.&#183;View Doing Less Harm, musings from Anytown NHS trust atwww.anytownnhstrust.blogspot.com
The bodies of seven young people were found in a van yesterday, another occurrence, the Japanese police believe, of a suicide pact arranged among strangers who meet via the internet.Minutes after their discovery, the bodies of two more suicide victims were found in a car at a separate location.In both cases those involved appeared to have shut themselves inside their vehicles and poisoned themselves by breathing the fumes from portable charcoal stoves.The bodies of the four men and three women, thought to be in their teens and 20s, were found in a rented van in the mountains of Saitama prefecture just after 6am yesterday.Police officers went to the scene after a man told them he had received an email from a friend saying he was about to kill himself.Inside the van the police found four stoves containing briquettes.The windows had been sealed with duct tape.Five minutes later two women, aged 21 and 27, were found dead in a car parked outside a shrine in Yokosuka, about 62 miles south-east of the first location, the Japanese media reported."We planned this together," one of the women said in a note quoted by the Mainichi Shimbun. "This was not a criminal act."The number of internet suicide pacts has soared since the discovery in early 2003 of two women and a man who had apparently gassed themselves to death in a vacant apartment near Tokyo.Last year 34 people reportedly killed themselves in 12 cases.This year the death toll had reached 11 by June.Last month four people were found dead in a rented car 2 miles from the site of yesterday's group suicide in Saitama. They too had died from carbon monoxide poisoning.There is growing concern in Japan and South Korea at the rise in the number of online suicide pacts, which often involve teenagers.The discovery in March of the bodies of five people aged 19 to 29 who had apparently drunk a poisonous cocktail, in a hotel room in South Korea prompted calls for suicide websites to be closed and for the word "suicide" to be removed from internet search engines.Japanese websites typically advise the suicidal on how and where to kill themselves and enable like-minded individuals to get in touch via email.Though the number of online suicide pacts is relatively small, an increasing number of Japanese are taking their own lives.Last year a record 34,000 people killed themselves, according to the national police agency, 7% more than in 2002.
Technically impressive and a little quirky, theGizmondois a gaming handheld that has one unique feature - it's British. Launching in the UK onOctober 29th, the Gizmondo is an interesting and feature-packed device that plays movies and music as well as games. I had a test of one today and was impressed by the screen and capabilities of the device. The menu is easy to use and the features will be familiar to users of high-end PDA. Unfortunately the Gizmondo is no looker. In fact next to the sleek lines of the PSP, the Gizmondo looks like a tubby toy. Still looks aren't everything right?The Gizmondo doesn't allow you to make calls – "too confusing for consumers" say the makers - but owners will need a Sim card. GPS is crucial to the device and opens up some interesting game design areas. One of the titles in development –Colors– lets players compete against other each other when in the same vicinity. You may be "in control" of a particular postcode, but a challenger can come to your area and "win" control by beating you in the game. Like most things Gizmondo this is an innovative, yet risky, choice. Critical mass will be needed to make the most of this game and that could be tough when retailers haven't exactly backed the machine wholeheartedly. However, a recent announcement of a deal with SCi shows that games support is growing, while a similar movie deal is expected shortly.The Gizmondo is ugly and ridiculously named, But it comes stacked with features, a reasonable price tag (£229) and genuine underdog spirit. I think this is a cult gadget in the making.
Touching news from online super-hero gameCity of Heroes. The game, an MMORPG with Lycra, has seen its players launch spontaneous in-game tributes to the late Superman actor Christopher Reeve. Clickhereto see a picture of the tribute.Thanks toWarcryfor the pics.
Eyebrows were raised when a 16-year-old from a suburban estate in Pontypool hired stretch limousines to take his friends on a night out and popped off to New York for a weekend.Neighbours wondered if the boy's parents had won the lottery, or inherited a large sum. In fact the teenager topped up his pocket money to the tune of &#163;45,000 by preying on unsuspecting bargain hunters on the internet auction site eBay.He offered non-existent electrical items for sale on the site and squirrelled some of the money buyers handed over into his several bank accounts, splashing the rest of it on his lavish lifestyle.One victim is believed to have been cheated out of around &#163;2,500, and in all it is thought that the boy struck more than 100 times. He even taunted some of his victims, contacting them to tell them how he had frittered their money away.The teenager, who is now 17 and cannot be identified, admitted 21 charges of fraud when he appeared at Cwmbran youth court in south Wales, and asked for another 64 charges to be taken into consideration. He will be sentenced at Newport crown court later this month.The boy's activities first surfaced in October last year when a customer complained that he had not received the goods he had paid for. The teenager was traced and the matter was settled out of court.Further complaints began to trickle into eBay and the police were called in. When officers searched the boy's bedroom in January this year they found designer clothes, expensive gadgets and sophisticated computer equipment.Although he was put on police bail, he continued to try to con eBay users. He was arrested again in April, but still could not resist going back on to the site. He was finally given bail only on condition that he did not use the internet.Paul Moore, prosecuting, told the youth court on Friday that the boy said he was "addicted" to the site. "It gave him a buzz," he said.Mr Moore said the teenager advertised a range of electrical items on the site."Items listed for sale have never been in his possession," he said.When the police investigated the boy's finances, they found he had set up three bank accounts to look after his takings.The case is embarrassing for eBay, which declares itself a "safe place to buy and sell" and employs more than 1,000 people in customer service and its investigation unit. A former Scotland Yard officer acts as a liaison point between the company and the police.The Pontypool case prompted a wide-ranging review of the site's safety procedures, but questions still remain about why a boy of 16 was able to sell on the site - supposedly open only to those over 18 - and how he was able to keep his con going for so long after he was first caught.Certainly the size of the site, with more than 10m items for sale at any one time, makes it a challenging place to police.Last night eBay refused to discuss the case, saying that it was not right to do so given the age of the defendant and the fact that he had yet to be sentenced. It would only say: "We are happy that the police managed to track him down and bring him to justice."
As if to directly counter the post below, the BBC has uncovered more evidence that videogames can have a positive effect on children, rather than turning them into mindless fatties who would murder everyone they met if only they had the energy to lift their corpulent bodies from the sofa. In astoryposted on BBC Online today, it is revealed that 'street urchins' (is that a politically correct phrase nowadays? No wonder Richard Madeley isconfused) in Buenos Aires are learning vital life skills by playing games in arcades and cyber cafes. A big deal is made of research indicating that a majority of the kids prefer 'non-violent' titles - a pity then that the one photo they have of a child in an arcade shows him blasting away on a gun game...
Uh oh. It looks like rottweiler lawyerJack Thompsonis on the anti-games snarl again, this time picking on his favourite fall guy,Grand Theft Auto.Gamesindustry.bizreports that Thompson, famed for accusing computer software of inspiring a variety of international tragedies, has pinnedRockstar's game on the recent arrest of a Massachusetts 16-year old who was planning on re-creating the Columbine High School massacre on its anniversary next April.According to the article Thompson is quoted as saying, "The technique of killing civilians and then first-responders when they get there is the primary scenario to win in all the Grand Theft Auto games." Does anyone have any ideas what missions he's be playing? I thought that was a one-way ticket to the brig.This comes at a dangerous time in American politics, when the Presidential contenders will be quick to jump on whatever bandwagon they feel will get them public votes. Here's hoping that they'll be too distracted with the real violence happening across the globe to pay attention to Thompson's latest quibble.Crackdowns on interactive entertainment are getting increasingly frequent in policy makers' boardrooms across the States, including traditionally liberal, creative mecca California, where Governor Arnold "The Terminator" Schwarzenegger recentlysigned into lawa bill making sales of over-18 games to minors a criminal offence.
Following last week's Online article on therise of anonymous workplace bloggers, this is the second of our full interviews with the people who spill the beans on their chosen profession. Yesterday we printed a Q&amp;A with the writer ofCall Centre Confidential.This time around it's Dr Dre, who blogs about working for a major fast food retailer atDoing Less Harm.Online:When did you start your blog and why? Were other blogs, in particular other job/workplace blogs, an inspiration?Dr Dre:I've been blogging for about three months now, but I've been toying with the idea for much longer. Whenever my colleagues and I had lunch, we would swap funny stories of things that had happened. Someone once said to me that mine were always the funniest and that I had a knack for storytelling. It was then that I started to think maybe I should share these stories.I never really read many blogs up until about a year ago when your blog awards introduced me to Call Centre Confidential. I've been reading that ever since and it was a case of, if Wrapstar can do this, so can I. From a writing point of view, Charlie Brooker's Screen Burn in the Guide makes me cry with laughter every week. If I could write half as well as him and get half the laughs then I would be satisfiedO:What were you initially hoping to achieve with the blog? Has your blog (and what you write on it) changed as it's gone on?D:I didn't really have any aims when I set out other than to make people laugh. Because it's only three months old, there hasn't been much of a change, although I have become a better writer.I suppose at the start I was always looking for stories which had a huge significance to the Trust and that people would be able to relate to. But more recently, I have become focused on the tiny details of my office environment. Like answering the phone, the canteen toast run and ordering the water cooler water.O:What's reaction to it been like so far? Which kinds of entries are the most popular/draw the most comment?D:The reaction has been OK, all of the people I have had contact with have said how much they enjoy the blog - example comment "Your blog made me howl". The most popular entry I have written was about the star rating system and some of the problems our Trust faces. We are in a unique situation where we need money to invest in one area to get our stars while the PCT needs us to invest in another area so they can get their stars. I also seem to get a good reaction on posts which focus around meetings and my observations on them. I suppose this is because these are universal to any work place and the same stupid things happen everywhere.O:You blog anonymously - if you blogged under your real name, how would your blog be different?D:It certainly would be very different. Without this veil of anonymity, I don't think I would tell half the stories I do. Or at least I would have to edit them to the point where they become unfunny. It would become more about me and what I am experiencing rather than the Trust as a whole and the characters in my team. Or more likely, without anonymity, it wouldn't exist.O:Does anyone from your work read your blog? If so, has anyone guessed that you're behind the blog?D:I don't think anyone at my work reads my blog, which is probably a good thing. In a very quiet week, I wrote a story about something that had happened in my previous job. One of the comments I got was from a former colleague, who left their work email address. What they didn't realise was that the person I was blogging about was sitting in an office on the floor above them and that was probably a good thing.I often wonder what people's reactions would be if they found it. I think and hope the individuals involved will see it for what it is - a joke. Although I'm not sure what the organisation would think. This is the issue that keeps most work bloggers awake at night.O:Do you see your blog as a purely personal thing - a way of dealing with the everyday frustrations at work - or does it have a more general, possibly political purpose - a kind of low-level whistle-blowing function - letting people know the reality of certain modern jobs?D:I really didn't start my blog for any other reason other than to make people laugh. If in that process, I can make some statements about the modern workplace or some quasi-political posts about the NHS, then that is purely a side issue. I would like to think that my blog and the stories I tell would be just as suited to any office environment. I happen to write about the NHS because I work in it. If I worked in a consultancy firm, then I'm sure I would be able to tell similar stories.I suppose in some way my blog does whistle blow but not on the NHS so much, more on the office environment in general and what it is like to work in the 21st century.O:Some people have suggested workplace blogs are a kind of rebellion against modern 'overwork' culture (in which people work longer and longer hours, in which work is seen as some sort of defining moral value, in which workers are under more and more surveillance and control, via audits, reviews etc). Do you agree?D:Working in the NHS, I think it will probably take a few years before we catch on to some of these ideas about more control and audits and reviews ;) I think the majority of work blogs are more of a rebellion against the stupid initiatives that people come up with. Rather than the overwork culture it's more of a rebellion against idiocy. Why spend thousands of pounds on getting a new logo when there are wards where 8 nurses have to share one PC, which is locked in the sister's office.I always think of Dilbert when I'm writing mine.O:Why do you think people read your blog? To find out 'the inside truth' about a particular area of modern life?D:I would hope first and foremost that people read my blog to be entertained. If they are coming for a cheap laugh, I hope they get it. If they are coming to know more about the NHS, then I hope they find that too.I blame 'Driving School' and 'Sylvanian Waters'. Both shows are responsible for the current swathe of 'reality' TV. It seems an inherent part of today's popular culture that people want to look over the fence and into your living room to see if the grass is greener or if you have grass! I'm sure at some level there is some snooping going on but I hope my readers don't expect an insightful and intelligent deconstruction of the modern NHS workplace because they won't get that from me. All they will get is 15 or so lines of text setting them up for a punchline.O:Is what you write on your blog 'the truth' about your job? Or do you sometimes find yourself embellishing slightly, to make the blog more interesting. Bloggers often say that, though they set out to write about the everyday reality of their lives, they find that they've created a kind of alternate persona, which both is them and isn't, at the same time. Perhaps another way of coming at this is to say that blogs can be like stories and, as you build up momentum/audience, is there a temptation to spice things up slightly to keep people hooked?D:Hmmm, I often joke with the one person who knows about me and the blog that it is probably 95% truthful. There are two major twists I put in as the vast majority of posts don't happen as they are written. They are either a mish-mash of things that have happened to me in this job and some from my previous jobs or the actual action finishes before the punch line and I embellish slightly to get the story to a funnier conclusion.For instance, in one of my recent posts the Consultant I spoke to did not say "Do you not know who I am?" but I couldn't finish on the joke I wanted to, unless I added that line. I have yet to manipulate a workplace situation into something that could be bloggable but on a quiet week soon, I know I won't be able to resist.O:Why are anonymous job blogs so popular now? Does it say something about modern work? Or does it say something about blogs and what people think they 're best at (e.g. personal accounts that take you inside a previously hidden world/correct big media assumptions etc)?D:I think I answered this one a couple of questions ago. The need for and love of 'reality' TV has meant that people have become more inquisitive and want to look into hidden worlds. I will never get to work in a call centre but thanks to Call Centre Confidential I now know that it really is just like any other office but instead of focusing on fixing people, like the NHS, its about selling stuff.O:What do you hope to achieve with your blog? A way out of your current job? A publishing deal?D:I really don't aim to achieve anything. I love my current job and wouldn't swap it for any other job. My main aim is to keep it funny and keep it light hearted. There are too many blogs that are written by someone in their mid 20s and all they do is spout some 'Dawson's Creek' /'Bridget Jones' style teen angst. What I want to show is that blogging doesn't necessarily have to be about that and that it can be a fun thing.I have really never considered a publishing deal and I don't think I would want one. I am a public sector IT worker and will be for life, I enjoy that and don't see any reason why I would want to change that. Anyway, if I did get offered one, my old English teacher would probably have a heart attack. It was never my strongest subject.O:Is doing your blog still fun? Do you foresee a time when it might feel like another (unpaid) job? If that happened, what would you do?D:Blogging is still fun but it is stressful. Keeping my ears open for small tit-bits of information which would make an amusing post can be time consuming and distracting. For someone who has never been a good writer, like me, finalising the post before publishing is one of the hardest things. Checking over the flow of the sentences and making sure the language is as tight as possible. All this does take some of the fun out of blogging. I'm quite sure that my blog has a finite life span. I just hope I realise when it's the right moment to call time on it. I hope that when it does become a chore or when I become unfunny or start using the same jokes over and over again, or just steal them from 'The Simpsons', that I am gracious enough to walk away and leave my blog.O:Do you feel a sense of responsibility to your readers? By which I mean I think a lot of people read job/workplace blogs and trust that they're telling it like it is about a particular job... Which is another way of saying - do you see yourself as a kind of journalist, with certain responsibilities as a result, or does the blog only have to please you/work for you?D:I really don't feel too much responsibility to be truthful to my readers. I think the vast majority of them can identify that my blog is not 100% accurate because some of the things that happen are just too outrageous to be true. I look at it as the equivalent of watching 'Casualty' or 'Green Wing'. Watch 'Casualty' if you want the real hospital experience but if you want to see some real-ish people (all be it with the volume turned up) put into amusing situations, watch Green Wing.I don't really feel any journalistic integrity. As Wrapstar of Call Centre Confidential once put it, if you get a choice between printing the legend or the truth - print whichever is funnier. All the blog really has to do is make people laugh. I don't think I need to be totally truthful. Maybe if someone reads one of my posts then they may be misled into thinking that the entire health service is like that, but if they stick around and read more - I hope they will realise that I use a certain amount of artistic licence.I am not a journalist, I am more of a chilled out entertainer. Now where have I heard that phrase before? ;)Interview by Jim McClellan
American authorities have shut down 20 independent media centres by seizing their British-based webservers.On Thursday a court order was issued to Rackspace, an American-owned web hosting company in Uxbridge, Middlesex, forcing it to hand over two servers used by Indymedia, an international media network which covers of social justice issues and provides a "news-wire", to which its users contribute.The websites affected by the seizure span 17 countries.It is unclear why, or to where, the servers have been taken. The FBI, speaking to the French AFP, acknowledged that a subpoena had been issued but said this was at the request of Italian and Swiss authorities."It is not an FBI operation," said its spokesman, Joe Parris.Rackspace told Indymedia that it had been served with a court order under the Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty, under which countries assist each other in investigations such as international terrorism, kidnapping and money launderingIt is unclear why such a treaty would apply in this context. A UK Indymedia journalist said: "The authorities may just be using this as a trawling exercise. We don't know."It is also unclear if the Home Office was involved.The Metropolitan police said it was not aware of the move.The UK Indymedia site is now working, because it was backed up on another server, unlike others which are still shut down.One of the servers was to be used to stream web radio coverage of the European Social Forum conference in London next week.Aidan White, the general secretary of the International Federation of Journalists, condemned the "intolerable and intrusive" action .Tim Gopsill of the NUJ said: "If the security services of the UK or US can just walk in and take away a server, then there is no freedom of expression."
In my desperate attempt to get some of my more reticent female friends gaming, I hosted a rather silly entertainment session at the weekend which left me breathless and grabbing my guts (for joy, for pain). Yes, Friday night's gaming was full on physical thanks to the most excellent arrival ofDonkey Kongain my premises (please don't rob me again) and the replacement dance mats from the last time they were thieved. Shake it to the left...It isn't easy spurring non-gamers into interactive submission, but peripherals do a rather good job at making waves in the alternative audience pools. There's nothing like making a fool of yourself in front of friendly others to get some of that community spirit floating around. And with that, I forced Jackie up onto Dancing Stage MegaMix to boogie to the sounds of Elvis vs JXL. She did rather well, to be fair, and did her best Simon Says to the ascending arrows for three solid hours.It's now my weight loss regime of choice. Sod the gym. One reservation however; I may lose my ability to be musically critical if I have to listen to the dire selection of tunes Konami have forced into this latest version. I seem to recall that the song offerings used to be better, but that they'd forgotten to get a license for the European release. And now we suffer with DJ Otzi.After tiring of the technotronic rubbish assault we poppedAthens 2004into the PlayStation2 and nearly expired from the 100m dash. That didn't stop us from trying again and again and again. In fact, it made the game hundreds of times better than it had been, and certainly will give this sports simulation a bit more longevity. It should come with a health warning though, lest grandad try his cardiovascular system after the annual Christmas pig out.And finally, last but not least was the game which took over the rest of the free hours, Donkey Konga. Tremendous. I have, quite literally, blisters on my fingers.The drumming simulation is a superb take on the peripheral frenzy that's sweeping interactive entertainment at the moment, and it even kids you into thinking that you're the nextKeith Moon. The depth is actually quite incredible, although the alternative sounds for the drums - including the classic Nintendo effects from Super Mario Bros - are distracting.Getting through the levels involves slapping the skins and clapping the hands to beats as varied as Alright by Supergrass and the Hungarian symphony orchestra. Being timely means you get more dough to spend on new songs, difficulty levels and mini-games.Thus far I've not tired of it, though Pearl next door may have something to say about that. However, it bodes well for future gatherings of sceptical mates who think gaming's just for geekboys. Ha! I'll show them. With my groovy dance moves, my amazing drumming action and my superior singing style, I'm now a musical genius! Next stop, Top of the Pops.I'll donate ear plugs for a fiver.
Governments must work together to lift the "cloak of anonymity" that shields people who send email spam and prevent a loss of trust in legitimate e-commerce, experts said at a conference today.Representatives of the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) and the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC), speaking at the first international conference of email regulators, said law enforcement agencies must join forces to target the most prolific international spammers.They said the bulk of spam received by UK internet users originated from overseas - primarily from the US, China and Korea - making cross-border cooperation essential in tackling what is a vehicle for online fraud and computer viruses."We are all united by a common goal - to stop deceptive and fraudulent spam from flooding our email boxes, threatening our data security, and undermining email's effectiveness as a tool for commerce and communication," Deborah Majoras, the FTC chairwoman, said."Spammers hide behind the cloak of anonymity provided by the latest technology, and the path from a spammer to a consumer's inbox typically crosses one border, if not several."It's our biggest problem tracing the origin of spam, so providing information between countries on how to track them &#91;spammers&#93; down is imperative. In the cyber-speedy world of spam, it is essential that we move quickly to catch them."Bulk unsolicited email, commonly referred to as spam, accounts for more than 60% of all email traffic on the internet, and is linked to fraudulent, deceptive or pornographic activities.Today's so-called "spam summit", taking place in London, has brought together consumer and data protection officers and telecommunications executives from more than 20 countries.John Vickers, the OFT chairman, said spam deceit was a "sophisticated criminal activity" and posed a major threat to legitimate e-commerce."Our concern is the rising tide of unsolicited email coursing around the internet much of it laden with fraud, deception and viruses," he said."We are all familiar with the annoyance, invasion of privacy and cost that spam brings, but that is just part of the problem - spam is threatening the enormous potential for good that e-commerce, and the web generally, has opened up."Safeguarding that good, as well as combating the evil of the scams, is the challenge for us all. International collaboration by enforcement agencies, the efforts of the computer and communications industries and smart consumers at home, who take steps to protect themselves, are all needed to combat the spammers."According to Mr Vickers, one solution would be for internet service suppliers to charge for sending unwanted marketing emails, and another for workplaces to install spam filters.Richard Thomas, the UK's information commissioner, warned that spam was not just about email. "We're coming across a hard core of UK spammers who are sending SMS text messages via mobile phones, or using faxes," he said.Mr Thomas, whose job is to enforce the Data Protection Act and the Freedom of Information Act, called for increased powers to crack down on spammers."My powers are still not strong enough," he said. "I'm seeking the power to get information from third parties who know what is going on. There is currently no obligation for internet service providers to provide information."The second is to ensure an injunction can be obtained rapidly when something comes to light - a fast-track solution so that, when we have got the evidence, we can go to court straight away."
"When Bill Gates takes the stage tomorrow morning at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles, he won't be launching a new generation of the flagship operating system. He'll be looking to stir up some new interest in the existing one," reports theSeattle Post-Intelligencer."Microsoft is expected to use the event to unveil a series of new and overhauled digital media products, including a revamped version of its specialized software for watching and recording television and other digital media on a computer" [ie Windows XP Media Center Edition 2005, code-named Symphony]."The overarching initiative is known inside Microsoft as Windows XP Reloaded, said Jim Allchin, Microsoft's group vice president for platforms, in a conversation with Seattle-area reporters earlier this year. Allchin described it as an effort to enhance the operating system's capabilities and do a better job of marketing them to consumers."AP's take on the story begins: "Efforts by Microsoft Corp. and the PC industry to expand into to the living room will get a boost next week as they show off technologies that try to balance Hollywood's piracy fears with the appeal of digital media. In Los Angeles, Microsoft is expected to unveil Windows Media Center Edition 2005 for entertainment computers as well as other software and gadgets that seek to simplify sharing video and music while enforcing copyrights."Meanwhile,CRNhas the trade news. "Unlike the first generation of the Media Center operating system, which was available to only five or six OEMs, or the second generation, which was available to about 30 OEMs, this version will be open to all system builders, said a Microsoft official during a Thursday night demonstration of the software to solution providers at a D&amp;H Distributing channel event."
Last week Online ran afeature about anonymous work bloggerswhich looked at why and how people write about their workplaces. It made for interesting reading and the author, Jim McClellan, interviewed a number of anono-bloggers about what they do.Obviously, the interviews were condensed and cut to fit into the article as a whole, but since there are no limitations of space here on the web, we've decided to run the interviews in full on Onlineblog.The first interview is withWrapstar, who writesCall Centre Confidential.Online:When did you start your blog and why? Were other blogs, in particular other job/workplace blogs, an inspiration?Wrapstar:I'd started to write a memoir of call centre life when I stumbled across blogging. Anthony Bourdain's book 'Kitchen Confidential' was my inspiration. He managed to make chopping onions appear the most compelling profession in the world. I wanted to do the same for call centres.Blogging is a form of micro-publishing. I've always produced magazines that have taken months to put together, at great expense and have been read by 50 people. Now, with the blog, it costs nothing, takes 5 minutes and is read by 500 people a day.The first entry was published February last year.O:What were you initially hoping to achieve with the blog? Has your blog (and what you write on it) changed as it's gone on?WS:Call Centre Confidential has recently changed in tone as I've become more embittered. Initially, I was an invisible, participant observer of the absurdities of office life, nowadays it's a case of 'me against the world.'O:What's reaction to it been like so far? Which kinds of entries are the most popular/draw the most comment?WS:Reaction has been really positive. I expected some backlash following the 'Highly Commended' award from theGuardian's blog awards last year, but readers increased and the response remained positive. Some of the entries in the comments are better than my posts!I'm always surprised and disappointed by which posts get the most response. I can spend hours composing a satirical masterpiece that gets ignored, while the 'pubes in the keyboard' entries that are knocked up in minutes are adored.O:You blog anonymously - if you blogged under your real name, how would your blog be different?WS:I stay anonymous because I'd be found in a local canal if I got found out.O:Does anyone from your work read your blog? If so, has anyone guessed that you're behind the blog?WS:A handful of trusted colleagues know about the blog. I don't shout about it because I'd only have to put up with 'this is one for you' every five minutes. Besides, they have to put up with me all day, why would they want to listen to more of my bobbins?O:Do you see your blog as a purely personal thing - a way of dealing with the everyday frustrations at work - or does it have a more general, possibly political purpose - a kind of low-level whistle-blowing function - letting people know the reality of certain modern jobs?WS:It's an entirely personal thing. A bit of my soul evaporates every day; this is is a means of topping it up.O:Some people have suggested workplace blogs are a kind of rebellion against modern 'overwork' culture (in which people work longer and longer hours, in which work is seen as some sort of defining moral value, in which workers are under more and more surveillance and control, via audits, reviews etc). Do you agree?WS:Are people in offices really over-worked? Generations of my family worked down a pit to feed their kids; these days people may worry 'does my boss rate me?', 'why does he have a bigger calculator than me?' and work through their lunch shuffling their in-box, but its to keep their kids in DVDs. Get a grip.Surveillance, control and auditing keep me busy, don't knock it.O:Why do you think people read your blog? To find out 'the inside truth' about a particular area of modern life?WS:Regular readers seem to enjoy following the narrative of the characters. People have their favourites. However, I suspect that most readers dip in and out. I suppose it does give people an idea of what life there is behind the phone.O:Is what you write on your blog 'the truth' about your job? Or do you sometimes find yourself embellishing slightly, to make the blog more interesting. Bloggers often say that, though they set out to write about the everyday reality of their lives, they find that they've created a kind of alternate persona, which both is them and isn't, at the same time. Perhaps another way of coming at this is to say that blogs can be like stories and, as you build up momentum/audience, is there a temptation to spice things up slightly to keep people hooked?WS:CCC is more honest than true. The things that happen do happen, but not neccessarily in the right order.The blog voice is different from my real voice. Many of the business-bull-shit sayings that I criticise in others, are things that I might say myself: I can 'push out the envelope' with the best of them.O:Why are anonymous job blogs so popular now? Does it say something about modern work? Or does it say something about blogs and what people think they 're best at (eg personal accounts that take you inside a previously hidden world/correct big media assumptions etc)?WS:I like to think that CCC has been an inspiration for some anonymous bloggers. The best blogs are focused, have a unity of voice and have pithy, unique insights.O:What do you hope to achieve with your blog? A way out of your current job? A publishing deal?WS:I'd love to see Call Centre Confidential in print (I conceived it as a book) but I doubt anything will happen, after all I've been in a stopgap job for 12 years. I'm hardly a man of action.I'm in the throes of rewriting it as a one-man show to take it to Edinburgh next year. I'm not sure whether it will work it in a different format; my mate keeps reminding me of 'Porridge: The Movie'.O:Is doing your blog still fun? Do you foresee a time when it might feel like another (unpaid) job? If that happened, what would you do?WS:It's fun doing the blog. I'm worried about repeating myself. Call centres work in a cycle where the same pointless gubins rotates every year:'Let's multi-skill' 'Let's specialise' 'Let's multi-skill' Rinse and repeat.It won't go on for much longer.I've got an idea about writing a blog about my nocturnal activities, what happens 'after hours' - I may even spawn a whole new 'blog genre' watch this space!O:Do you feel a sense of responsibility to your readers? By which I mean I think a lot of people read job/workplace blogs and trust that they're telling it like it is about a particular job... Which is another way of saying - do you see yourself as a kind of journalist, with certain responsibilities as a result, or does the blog only have to please you/work for you?WS:My motivation is to entertain my readers, I'm never going to let the truth get in the way, and I have made clear: when given the choice between the truth and the legend, I'll print the joke.O:Could you explain your nom de blog?WS:'Wrap' time is call centre jargon for the time after a call when an adviser updates customer files.
The BBC unveils its first interactive drama tonight, claiming to have learned lessons from past attempts to allow viewers to "get closer" to their favourite programmes. At the end of the first episode of the returning spy series Spooks, viewers watching on Sky and Freeview will be able to press the red button on their remote control to find out if they have "what it takes to become a spook". They will be greeted by spy master Harry Pearce (played by Peter Firth), who will oversee their progress through six training games, which provide an introduction to the skills needed by spies.This training module will be repeated at the end of the show for its first five weeks before making way for a game that replicates a mission for the following five weeks."The training game is great fun," enthuses Sophie Walpole, head of interactive drama and entertainment at the BBC. "At the end of the show we ask you to press red and then Harry talks viewers through observation and memory tests, making sure you watch the split screen and follow the action so you don't miss any clues. There's even a garbology test where you have to go through someone's rubbish and pick out items that would reveal something about them - apparently garbology is a real word."The thing it really has going for it is that it gives viewers what they really want from interactive - it tells them something about themselves. We've found out through Test The Nation that people are most receptive to interactive when they get rated somehow, and so telling people if they're good enough to be a spook struck us as something that would prove really popular."The decision to split the interactive game into the same training module for the first five weeks and then the same mission for the next five was taken because the BBC had to concede that it could not rely on viewers watching every show."People don't consume television like they used to," says Andrew Whitehouse, a producer specialising in so-called 'enhanced television', who created the Spooks service. "You can't rely on them watching every week because there are so many other things going on in their lives. If you made it different every week you'd put off people from playing if they missed last week's show."Whitehouse claims the interactive games at the end of the show are unique because the corporation realised that there was sufficient interest in espionage and gadgets to allow it to "go deeper" with Spooks than previous enhanced television services. "The things you normally consider doing are along the lines of the DVD extra features people are now pretty familiar with," he says. "Traditionally you'd be looking at a couple of interviews with the stars, some extra text telling you about the show and maybe a video guide to behind the scenes. With Spooks being a spy show, it just screamed out for us to tap in to the interest there is in the world of espionage and build a game around it. As far as we know, it's a world first."While it may be a first to have an interactive game built around a drama brand, the BBC has experimented widely with enhanced television, allowing viewers, for example, to switch to another court at Wimbledon or to get more information about dinosaurs during Walking With Beasts.Walpole claims this experience has taught the corporation some valuable lessons that will avoid a repetition of The Murder Game, which aired last year with a disappointing response to its accompanying interactive service. The show, described by Walpole as "Big Brother meets a murder mystery", saw members of the public on screen trying to solve a killing. At home, viewers could press red to play along and receive extra clues."It was far too complicated," Walpole confesses. "You were faced with far too many choices that took you away from the main show, so only a very small percentage actually bothered to play the game once they'd pressed red. So we now know that for interactive to work, it has to be very simple and it mustn't divert attention from the show."It is this latter point that has been key in convincing Kudos, the independent production company behind Spooks, that the series would be suitable for the BBC's first interactive drama."We know that the BBC has come to see Spooks as a big hit, and so wanted to do something for the third series," reveals Kudos managing director Jane Featherstone."We knew it would be right for an interactive element because it's particularly strong with young men who are obviously very into gadgets and open to trying out interactive television. The one problem, though, that we'd always had with interactive drama is that it seemed such a silly idea for a production company to spend a year or so getting a programme ready for the screen only to allow viewers to be taken away halfway through it. I think it's something the BBC has learned has to come after the show, so it can build on its appeal rather than get in the way of the show itself."The BBC claims to have no worries that the interactive service could take viewers away from the Ten O'Clock News because, as Whitehouse says, "if we were worried about that we'd just have the one channel".It will be accompanied by an updated website (www.bbc.co.uk/spooks)that also features tests that will establish how well suited the user is to becoming a spy, as measured by their skill, reaction and logic scores.Ultimately, the BBC's Interactive Drama and Entertainment division hopes that one day they will be able to combine the different experiences of web and television interaction, allowing people to play a branded game at home on their television sets yet still feeling linked to like-minded viewers."The thing the web has going for it is you get a far greater sense of community than you get sat at home playing a game on the television," says Whitehouse. "It's a shame that the technology's not quite there yet for us to link people playing on the television so they could chat about the show and maybe compare scores. That would be the ultimate interactive service."
It is over two years since the US music industry closed Napster and announced they would target private individuals. Last week the UK's music industry finally announced the end of their phoney war and opened up a second front in the battle against piracy. The BPI, the UK's music industry trade body, has the option of launching civil or criminal claims against the pirates.However, the criminal route is fraught with risks. The burden of proof needed in the criminal courts is so high that it will always make this an uncertain option. A criminal case against file swapping would also bring the BPI into relatively new and uncharted areas of the law. The likelihood is that the case would need to reach the House of Lords before it could be put to bed.Instead the BPI has taken the much more pragmatic approach of launching 28 civil lawsuits against uploaders, those individuals that make their music collections available to other individuals - the dealers rather than the junkies. For the uploaders, the fact that they will be faced by civil rather than criminal action should not cause them to rejoice. UK law is very clear-cut on the theft of intellectual property. Whether you are file swapping for fun or for commercial gain, if you are depriving the composers of the fruits of their labour and record companies of their income you can be pursued for very substantial damages.The levels of damages would be established by looking at the number of songs that the uploader had enabled to be copied rather than the amount of money that they have made from that copying. Each copy made would entitle the composer and the performer to their royalties, so the BPI does not have to prove that when a file has been downloaded it has resulted in a lost sale.The damages that the BPI could demand are scary - one user of one illegal uploader can fit 5,000 songs, roughly 400 albums, on to just one IPod. If you are an uploader who is proud of the popularity of the service you provide to the internet community, you may face a truly life-changing bill. BPI has said that the damages that it will pursue will be decided by how quickly the cases settle. Cases are likely to settle for a fraction of the total theoretical damages bill.In the US each illegal download of a copyrighted song carries a maximum penalty of $150,000, but public relations concerns mean that cases have been settled for tiny percentages of the maximum.The BPI has also said that at as well as seeking damages they will issue injunctions through the civil court that will forbid the downloaders from infringing copyrights again. Typically such injunctions cover the work of one artist, but in the case of music pirates, for such injunctions to be effective they will have to be drawn very widely. There is no point in restricting somebody from infringing the copyright of Britney Spears and the Pixies as that would leave the pirates free to rip off any other band's music the next week. Instead the injunction will have to take the form of a copyright Anti-Social Behaviour Order.If the uploader infringes the injunction, proceedings could be started for contempt of court. If found in contempt, the uploader will have to pick up the tab for court and legal costs. For the simplest of cases this will be &#163;10,000 to &#163;20,000. It's not unknown for the courts to sentence those found guilty of contempt to seven days in jail to give the offender a bit of time to dwell on things.Before the BPI can roll its legal guns out into action they need to cross one obstacle. That's identifying who they want to attack. At the moment the BPI is likely to know little more about the identity of their quarry than the handful of anonymous sounding IP addresses.What the BPI will need to do next is make an application to the courts to force the Internet Service Providers to disclose the names and addresses behind the IP addresses. Normally, it is "Norwich Pharmical orders" which are used to force the disclosure of information from those who have been innocently involved in copyright infringements. The orders are named after the pharmaceutical company that successfully won disclosure of information from Customs &amp; Excise who had seized a shipment of pirated drugs.The ISPs could choose to challenge these orders on the grounds that their involvement began and ended with the relay of transient data packets and that they had no involvement, unwitting or otherwise, in the actual copyright infringements.If the BPI find this route blocked they are sure to find another path. What little hope that downloaders have of avoiding ruinous damages is dependent on the BPI's fear of bad publicity. But the BPI is saying that who it decides to pursue will not be determined by "political correctness".The US music industry was willing to take a case against a 12-year-old girl and despite adverse publicity still forced her mother to pay $2,000. In the UK 12 is also seen as the age at which minors are culpable for their actions. Another reason why we can still feel a little bit uneasy about our children's enthusiastic embrace of technology?My advice to the uploaders? Time to pack it in. You have done your job and forced the music industry to sell in the format in which millions want to use, not the format the music industry wanted to peddle. The next test for the music industry is whether the claimed "lost" sales are related to the format or the content.&#183;Andrew Hobson is head of IP at commercial law firm Reynolds Porter Chamberlain.
The internet has almost caught up with radio's share of the advertising market as online spending rocketed by 76% in the first half of 2004 fuelled by the growth of broadband and sponsored search.Big budget spending by the likes of BMW, BT and Audi have helped push the UK online's revenues in the last six months to £266.8m, according to figures compiled by PriceWaterhouseCoopers and released today by the Interactive Advertising Bureau.Internet giants such as MSN, Yahoo!, Wanadoo and AOL will point to the surge in advertising spend as evidence the web is finally being taken seriously by mainstream advertisers.The IAB said it was confident the total spent on internet advertising during 2004 would comfortably top £500m.Despite consumers spending an ever increasing amount of time on the internet thanks to the growth of high speed, always-on broadband lines, websites have found it difficult to persuade advertisers burnt by the dotcom crash to divert money away from TV, print and billboards.But the IAB, the trade body for ad-funded websites, said today the rise in advertising spend made the internet the fastest growing advertising medium in history.Having last year overtaken cinema advertising, the internet now commands a 3.24% share of the billions spent on advertising in the UK every year. It now has the radio industry, which takes a 3.7% share of all advertising revenue, in its sights.In certain sectors, such as car advertising and financial services, the internet plays an increasingly important role in launching campaigns."We're charting a permanent shift in how the marketing process works. This is still firmly about integrated marketing, but as more brands tap into online, marketers are discovering its role in the media mix should be even greater," said the IAB chief executive, Danny Meadows-Klue."And the staggering pace of innovation means we're only scratching the surface of what this marketing channel can."Much of the growth over the past 18 months has also been fuelled by the impact of so-called sponsored search.Search engines such as Google, Yahoo! and Ask Jeeves charge put "key words" up for auction, and whenever a user searches for that term the results are displayed alongside the normal search listings. If the user then clicks on the link, the advertiser is charged the amount that they bid to sponsor the key word.The lucrative technology has proved particularly attractive to companies who rely on driving users to their website, such as online retailers, travel sites and financial institutions.Its popularity was underlined last year when Yahoo! agreed to pay over £1bn for search marketing company Overture and has been rewarded with a significant boost in revenues.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Microsoft haveannounceda new starter kit for Xbox Live, consisting of FIFA 2005 and 12 months subscription for £59.99. I've been reviewing Pro Evolution Soccer 4 this weekend, but have also spent a lot of time playing FIFA 2005 online. And you know what,FIFA onlineis a pleasant surprise. The ability to set up a quick tournament and the addictive nature of the ranking system certainly creates a "just one more go" mentality. I am currently 5,401 in the world, but I am playing as Southampton while most people, yawn, play as Arsenal or Man Utd. But get an opponent playing as a real team and you can normally have a good game. So far this looks like being a more than useful snack before the main course ofPro Evo 4. If you fancy a game let me know...
"MSN Music (music.msn.com) is by far the most capable rival to Apple's iTunes Music Store, even if it doesn't yet surpass it," saysThe Washington Post."Shopping the store is a pleasure, whether in Microsoft's Windows XP-only Windows Media Player 10 or through a Web interface (you can only buy using the Windows version of Internet Explorer). Type what you want into a search form and results are cleanly presented a moment later; each track shown comes with a 30-second sample and a rating, from one to five stars, based on other users' input. This search engine will offer to correct typos, even the most obscure -- it fixed my attempt to spell Einsturzende Neubauten."
"Video game skills and a good poker face online are becoming essential job qualifications in the financial markets, with recruitment drives assessing potential star traders in online gaming exams. This is especially true where electronic trading arcades have replaced traditional trading pits," says BBC Online."Game skills, developed despite parental fears for their offspring's social development, are exactly what is required for a lucrative future on the digital trading floor."
AP reports:A Lincoln [Nebraska] woman ticketed for posting nude pictures of herself on the Web that were taken in a downtown bar was fined $150 Thursday. Melissa J. Harrington, 21, was ticketed in December for violating Lincoln's public nudity ordinance by posting pictures on her former Web site "showing her naked at one of our downtown bars and in several other locations around the city," said Police Chief Tom Casady.Harrington, who works as a Web designer at a local bank, says on her Web site that she likes "being naked in public ... even more when there's a lot of people there to watch."Comment:The story was covered in Onlineblog (hereandhere).There are links to stories about the case at"Free Melissa".
"On Monday the musician Brian Eno visited Terminal 5 of Kennedy Airport, the curvilinear 1962 futuristic building designed by Eero Saarinen for TWA that has been closed since 2001. An art exhibition of installations designed for the space had just opened there, and Mr Eno, whose 1979 ambient album Music for Airports was reissued this week, was preparing a lecture-demonstration." More inThe New York Times.
It's normally employed to drum up that missing address, phone number or website, or to check facts, dates, names and other miscellany.But now the internet search engine Google has added crime-fighting capabilities to its formidable armoury, helping to solve a grisly mystery that has perplexed a town in northwest America for more than a decade.A US detective embarked on a week-long web trawl with only Google for assistance to identify a man who died in an apparent hit-and-run accident 11 years ago in this small town in Washington state.The mystery had baffled law enforcement agents ever since. Over the years, investigators combed through missing-person databases in vain.But Detective Pat Ditter of the Washington State Patrol finally identified the victim as David Glen Lewis, a 39-year-old man from Texas.Lewis had no known ties to central Washington, and his presence in the area is still a mystery, Mr Ditter said. Relatives believe Lewis was kidnapped.Mr Ditter said he turned to Google after reading a series of newspaper stories about long-unsolved missing-person cases. By a process of elimination over several days, he narrowed down the identity of the corpse to one of about a dozen missing persons.Finally, he came across a distinctive pair of glasses in a photograph on the websites of the Texas Department of Public Safety and the Doe Network, an international volunteer organisation devoted to solving identification cases.On Monday, officials at a laboratory in Texas confirmed a DNA match between the unidentified pedestrian and Lewis's mother."If he hadn't looked at those cases, we would still be back at square one, thinking he's alive and going to give us a call one of these days," said the dead man's brother, Larry Lewis.Google has acquired dozens of new features and problem-solving tools, offering everything from word definition and translation to stock market prices, and even solutions to maths problems. Solving crime mysteries may be more of an ad hoc feature.
There are few fairy godmothers who have turned their charges back into a pumpkin. But Karen Thomson, the UK head of internet service provider AOL, did exactly that when she consigned her Cinderella to the wastebasket of dotcom history last year.Connie, for those who were living in a cave during the heady days of the internet boom, was the prissy, public face of the American company this side of the Atlantic until the advertising campaign she starred in was unceremoniously dumped last summer."I did not invent her myself," the 43- year-old Scot explained in her office at AOL UK's headquarters in Hammersmith, west London. "I am not Connie's mother, I was more like her fairy godmother, saying 'you shall go to the ball'."The ball lasted five years as AOL used Connie - Rachel Willis, daughter of the Liberal Democrat MP Phil Willis - to persuade middle England to get online."Connie was all about hand-holding," said Thomson. She was the acceptable face of the internet, hawking a safe and secure way to get onto the net. But while the public seemed to like her, others in the media were not so keen. Campaign, the advertising industry bible, gave her the ignominious title of biggest turkey of 2000, the height of the boom.The decision to axe Connie - "We decided that she would go off and spend more time with her family," Thomson quipped - came as AOL moved itself into the market for providing fast, always-on broadband internet access.Moving its customers from dial-up internet access to the world of broadband is part of an evolutionary process that is still continuing.This month the industry regulator Ofcom will give its first indication of what the UK's communications market should look like and AOL is already planning for that future, looking at internet telephony, video-on-demand and even ways of leveraging its mammoth brand in the mobile phone world.And while Connie lasted just five years, Thomson has been with the firm for nine. Not bad for somebody who started out training to be a doctor and refuses to be labelled a "techie" in an industry where nerds rule.Born in Dundee, her family moved across the Tay and Firth of Forth when she was nine and she grew up in Edinburgh. After leaving school she went to university in Aberdeen, choosing medicine because everybody at the time seemed to think a profession was the best idea. It wasn't."I got there and met lots of people who had a true vocation for medicine and I thought, 'I am not entirely sure I do have the vocation for it'," she said."I remember opening this folder which was essentially my work plan for the next five years, so I could say 'in four years time on Monday, 17 August, at whatever time, I will be doing this' and almost none of it was about dealing with people."So I said, 'I am not enjoying this and next year I want to change'. The dean said, 'we throw people out, they don't leave' but they eventually realised I had thought about it a lot."She moved on to an arts course and specialised in philosophy. While great fun at the time, it was not necessarily the most vocational of degrees and when she emerged from academia into the harsh recessionary climate of the early 1980s, it became obvious that a deep understanding of moral philosophy was no help in getting a job.She ended up selling advertising on the Aberdeen Evening Express and the Press and Journal. When asked whether she enjoyed it, she faltered. "I would say it is the most high pressure, hardest work I have ever done in my entire life. I would not say I enjoyed it, I enjoyed working with the people ... but for me it was the job when I started to see that I was interested in marketing."After getting married in 1985, her husband, Neil, was offered a job with a London- based consultancy firm.They decided to give London two years. In fact she has been 'down south' for almost two decades but retains her broad Scottish accent.Following a marketing services job with a company that made controls for lifts, she realised that her slightly eccentric academic background was doing her few favours - "partly because every job I went for they asked me why I had done a philosophy degree and the whole thing about how it teaches you to think properly was not helping".Thomson enrolled on a three-year, parttime MBA course at Middlesex University and switched jobs, joining a communications company in the fast-growing world of pagers and mobile telephones - first with a subsidiary of BellSouth and then with Mercury.She finished at Middlesex just as she became pregnant. It was one of the few times during our conversation that she talked about the position of women in the world of work."When I think back, there were very few women on the course. I was a good bit younger than the norm and I do not think any women who had kids finished the course. I think dealing with the three together would have been hideous."After the birth of her daughter she took a break, taking part-time marketing consultancy work until a fateful call from a headhunter friend in 1995. "She said, 'I've got this really bizarre job and I thought of you immediately'."It was with a yet to be named internet company that wanted somebody with expertise in branding and direct marketing. At the time only a few people this side of the Atlantic knew about the worldwide web, and Thomson frankly admitted: "I wasn't one of them".During her interview she boldly informed her prospective bosses that it would take longer than they hoped to get up and running, and then asked to actually see the service. She was hooked."The first time you move from a text-based environment to a graphics-based environment, as basic as it was, you go 'oh, so I can just click here?'. Then suddenly an instant message popped up.""I remember thinking there is something there. I went home that night and said to Neil, 'Well, I think I'm too bossy for them to start with because I have told them they cannot launch when they want to, but I saw this thing called instant messaging' and he is looking at me like 'how dull is this'."Despite his reservations, she became the fifth employee of AOL in the UK, joining as marketing director. As she predicted, the company launched at the start of 1996. Her experience in the cut-throat world of direct marketing served AOL well at the beginning. Although it now uses its own call centre staff and retailers - most notably the former Freeserve backer Dixons - to attract customers, AOL originally built its customer base by pushing CD-rom disks through people's letterboxes and into magazines and newspapers. At the time, its biggest draw was the offer of a free trial and by August 1996, AOL had attracted 50,000 customers. That doubled by the following Easter and by 1998, the company had more than 500,000 subscribers.Now AOL UK has more than 2.3 million customers, with more than half a million of those taking one of its three broadband offerings. It also made a profit last year, although Thomson is unwilling to say how much.Whether that is sustainable, however, with AOL's bitter rival Wanadoo - formerly Freeserve - offering broadband at a loss-leading price of £17.99, remains to be seen. "You have got to be competitive on price," she admitted, but she believes that people will pay a little extra not to have the amount they can download each month capped - as is the case with the Wanadoo service and BT's £19.99 offering."Obviously we want to lead the market but it is not a question of doing that at any price," she said.So what about the future? Many in the industry are getting excited about the prospects of local loop unbundling - the process by which BT will have to give up its stranglehold on the phone line that connects every house in the country to a local exchange. Across the Channel this process has allowed rivals to France Télécom to offer very fast broadband, digital television, video-on-demand and even free local and national calls for about £25 a month.Here, AOL UK is already looking into unbundling partners to provide it with the network capabilities to challenge BT. It will also be using an interim access technology BT is being pressed to provide known as Datastream - which opens the door to products above and beyond the basic broadband services available until now."I would be fibbing if I said to you we weren't looking at fixed-line, mobile, video etc, and that we were on different stages of development on all those things; of course we are.""It's a question of deciding where the focus should be and when we introduce those products ." It looks as if the fairy godmother is preparing to wave her wand again.
FableXBoxFable's lofty ambition is to give you control over your character's entire life from birth to death, allowing you to decide which skills to learn and to choose whether to be a heroic do-gooder or black-hearted murderer from whom law-abiding villagers cower, with your preference showing in your ethereal halo or red glowing eyes and budding horns. Taking place in a deliciously organic-feeling, sun-dappled woodland world, role-playing game essentials, such as gaining experience to increase your power, are joined by the ability to flirt, marry, cheat on your wife and divorce, as well as opportunities to indulge in an array of tattoos and peculiar haircuts along the way. Although you could finish Fable in 12 hours, doing so would be missing the point: while not successful in every way, the lavish detail and extraordinary richness of the world make this a game to savour.&#183;Microsoft, &#163;40Mario Golf: Advance TourGame Boy AdvanceMark Twain's assertion that golf is a way of ruining a perfectly good walk doesn't really come up in video games, which are themselves a way of improving a slightly dull sit-down. And while there are plenty of video game golf franchises from the excellent Tiger Woods PGA to fit-for-the-knackers-yard Outlaw Golf, on Game Boy, Mario Golf is the only one worth mentioning, now back in the Advance Tour. Once again mixing character development and a cornucopia of side missions, mini-games, multiplayer options and beautifully weighted challenges to explore, Mario Golf is never short of utterly compelling. Forget the slightly random short-putts and low difficulty level and bask in perfectly designed courses, play mechanics that reek of years of careful testing and structure that keeps you playing long after you get off the bus: handheld gaming joy.&#183;Nintendo, £35
Pink Game Boy &amp; Girl GamersNintendo's reinvention of the Game Boy Advance as a clamshell-styled small object of desire opened its appeal to gamers who may previously have felt too grown-up to be seen playing games in public. With the introduction of Game Boy Pink, Nintendo is extending its none-too subtle overtures to the half of the population that unaccountably prefers character development in films to sequences of mindless destruction. This refocus may be timely given a recent white paper from ELSPA (the European And Leisure Software Publishers Association) which estimates girl gamers are worth a potential &euro;14billion globally and make up 65.9% of the audience in Korea, 39% in the US and 25% in western Europe. It seems that sisters are at last taking up joypads and reclaiming the TV from a generation of men frankly unused to the competition.
The MP3 blog revolution continues apace, with a daily splurge of new sites serving up doses of free music you'd have trouble finding on the radio. Number 1 Songs In Heaven (londonlee.com/blog.html) is an excellent place to pick up classic soul and funk alongside some knowledgeable commentary. It might even make you buy a CD or two.Honey, Where You Been So Long (prewarblues.blogspot.com/) does the same for pre-war blues, while Lost Bands Of The New Wave Era (lostbands.blogspot.com) is a great reminder of forgotten groups of the early 1980s - they're charmingly keen on The Higsons - andkittytext.blogspot.comcouples a Thin Lizzy obsession with classic rock appreciation. Those in search of old school hip-hop should visitcocaineblunts.comwhilebubblegum-machine.comis putting their old K-Tel compilations online.
"Apple fans don't want to hear it. Analysts don't want to say it. But here it is: Apple's ready for a mighty big fall. The Borg-like fidelity of Mac zealots, coupled with misplaced enthusiasm for the firm's nifty gadgets and a giant dose of media hype, has conspired to push the stock far beyond a rational valuation," claimsMotley Fool."We take the battle to the front page today with Fool contributor and Mac aficionado Tim Beyers defending the iEmpire while Fool Seth Jayson argues that Apple is rotten to the core. After you've read both sides, vote on which one has won your heart."Comment: you have to sign up to vote.
It's time for theWorld Cyber Games...FromCnet:"Already a bona fide cultural phenomenon in its birthplace, South Korea--where WCG tourneys and similar events routinely fill soccer stadiums and top game players have their own fan clubs--organizers hope to quickly and profitably export competitive games to the rest of the world."Judging from tepid response during preliminary competition Thursday, where the atmosphere more resembled a bridge tournament than a rock concert, the organizers may have some work to do to reach South Korean levels of frenzy. Overheated play-by-play commentary during early rounds of "FIFA Soccer" was pretty much the extent of any excitement. Uniformed referees prowled the sidelines, not interested in potential doping scandals so as much as enforcing arcane rules such "No eBay bug!" and "Do not look at big screen!" "Game on.
1 Enter your query as a text message. See some sample queries. 2 Send the message to the US shortcode 46645 (GOOGL on most phones).The instructions arehereReuters has the storyhere. It says:"Google SMS currently works with the top six US wireless providers including Cingular Wireless, Verizon Wireless and Sprint. The service does not work outside of the United States as Google as yet to expand its local search services overseas."
The Tapwave Zodiac is a neat little gaming PDA (and not a minor character from Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy) that was launched ages ago in the states – and is finally set for a UK release on October 22. The well-featured handset has some pretty good games (including an accurate conversion of Doom II), but we're not sure it'll catch on with PSP and DS on the way and N-Gage QD gaining in popularity. If you simplymusthave all the latest gadgets, though, scan thepress releasehere, then hit the Duty Free Dixons next time you're jetting off somewhere exotic.
EA has announced details of a new extension to its FIFA brand. Due out next year,FIFA Streetis an urban no-rules take on footie, in a similar style to the publisher's NBA Street and NFL Street titles. Or as the press release puts it:FIFA STREET is a highly-anticipated combination of arcade action blended with the culture of freestyle street football. By removing the rules from the simulation football experience, FIFA STREET exposes the heart of the world's beautiful game, on-the-ball flare and individual style.Jumpers for goal posts? No referees? Having to finish the game half-way through because it's time for dinner? Well, not quite. EA is clearly tapping into the current 'urban life' fad that also underpins recently announcedFear and Respectand, of course, Juiced, The Urbz and Need For Speed Underground 2. In all of these games, gaining respect is a vital element of moving through the ranks. It's not high scores we're after anymore, it's high fives...
Laurence, 40, is an illegal downloaderI was told about WinMX by someone at work. I've downloaded thousands of singles and hundreds of individual music videos since then.I go back to my early teens when I listened to the top 40 on the radio and taped songs from the radio before eventually going out and buying them. To me, downloading is exactly the same. I will go online and download songs three or four times a week, using   WinMX. I've looked at other sites, like KaZaA, but it wasn't right for me. I'm not that computer literate and WinMX is very accessible.My sons download as well. They will download singles for an hour or so, then I will go online at about 10pm after they have gone to bed. That's when the American market opens up. You tend to get more interesting material coming on in the early hours, like US releases. The new Chris Robinson solo album is the big one at the moment. He is the former lead singer of the Black Crowes and his album isn't being released in the UK, so a lot of people want it.On the video side, there's amazing Grateful Dead and Led Zeppelin concerts from the 60s available online.I've never burnt a CD and sold it on. It isn't done. You just do it for your own use. I probably spend more on music now since I started downloading. A lot of people I know who download say the same thing.The quality from illegal file-sharing networks is not as good, which is why if you like what you are downloading you buy it eventually. I downloaded the Libertines' new album the other week. I've got broadband so I can do it in minutes.The record companies' argument is a load of rubbish. They are doing extremely well at the moment and people are spending more money on music through downloading.I was under the impression they will only really go for downloaders who are doing it 24/7. But people who are much more computer literate will find ways around it. I'm going to stick with what I'm doing and see what happens. But if the law does get a stranglehold on it then legal sites might be my only outlet.
A year ago, Brianna LaHara felt the full weight of the American music business when the terrified 12-year-old was accused of illegally swapping songs online and forced to pay $2,000 (&#163;1,175) compensation. Now 28 music fans will become the first people in Britain to be sued by the record industry for illegally downloading songs from the internet.The 28 unnamed individuals have been identified as prolific "file-sharers", offering up to 9,000 songs illegally over the internet, and traced through their computer's internet address. They will soon receive letters from the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) demanding compensation of several thousand pounds, and will face civil action if they fail to settle out of court.The legal moves mark the start of an uncompromising campaign by British record companies to banish online music piracy, which they blame for the 50% slump in the singles market since the original - illegal - incarnation of Napster was launched in 1999. According to research for the BPI, illegal downloaders spend on average 30% less than their music-buying peers. Record companies argue that it is no coincidence that since the crackdown in the US began, industry revenue there has risen again by 3.9%.But targeting illegal downloaders by taking them to court has proved controversial. Critics have pointed out that record companies suing their (often teenage) customers is a public relations disaster. Some industry figures say swapping songs online is a useful way to promote music and does not damage sales, while bands, including Blur and Franz Ferdinand, have spoken out in favour of using the internet to freely find music.Jay Berman, chairman of the IFPI, the international federation of record companies, admitted that targeting illegal file-sharing networks, including WinMX, KaZaA, Imesh, Grokster and Bearshare, was like playing Whack-A-Mole, with alternative services popping up just as quickly as illegal sites are shut down.Mr Berman said that by targeting serious "uploaders" who offer thousands of tracks for others to share over the internet, the music industry would avoid the kind of backlash that would follow were they to prosecute teenagers innocently downloading music in their bedrooms."We don't screen for political correctness," said Mr Berman. "We go on the basis of an IP &#91;internet protocol&#93; address. We don't know who these people are. It is done on the basis of the level of activity   not on the age of the person. A 12-year-old shoplifter would suffer certain consequences."Record companies hope the tide is turning against illegal "peer-to-peer" file-sharing, where users obtain a computer programme through networks like KaZaA which enable them to search others' computers for video and music files. Members then download these files for free while uploading other files for their peers to freely access.There has been an explosion in legal downloading services from 20 a year ago to more than 100 today. Sites such as the all-conquering iTunes, OD2 and the now-legal Napster allow consumers to download more than 1m different tracks by paying a fee of around 75p per song, allowing a royalty to be paid to both artist and record and music publishing companies. More than 2m tracks have now been downloaded legally in the UK. An official download chart was launched last month.While seven out of 10 consumers in the UK are aware that file-sharing is illegal, 700m unauthorised music files continued to be shared around the globe at any one time. Since March, the BPI has dispatched more than 350,000 instant messages to uploaders' computers warning them they are acting illegally."We have resisted legal action as long as we could," said Peter Jamieson, chairman of the BPI. "We have done everything we can to raise awareness of this problem. We would be derelict in our duty to protect and promote British music were we   not to take action to demonstrate that this activity is illegal and harmful."The government welcomed the action, but there is dissent. "Downloading is a great way to find out about music," Franz Ferdinand's lead singer Alex Kapranos has said. "People come up to me and say, 'I downloaded your album, and I can't wait to go out and buy it'."Blur's Dave Rowntree has accused the BPI of "posturing and spitting like a bunch of schoolyard bullies"."This will only lead to a bunch of 12-year-olds being taken to court as happened in the States which will serve nobody and nobody will make a penny," he told the NME.However, music producer Pete Waterman said Blur and Franz Ferdinand were welcome to give away their music if they wanted but to allow it to happen across the industry would damage up-and-coming artists. "There are many young bands out there who can't make a living. There are a few of us who are able to make outrageous statements like we don't want paying. They are the ones with a million in their bank account."This is not the NHS. This is music. You buy it. I've never had a problem with paying for my music."Since the first legal action was launched against individuals in the US last year, 5,700 music fans have been targeted. In Europe, 16 people have been prosecuted in Germany and 40 sued in Denmark. Most have had to pay several thousand euros, based on the number of illegal files they have shared, but one Danish downloader was forced to pay &euro;13,000. The BPI envisages collecting similar sums in Britain.
This week sees a bounty of AAA titles released for our interactive consumption. Hurrah, the gaming season has begun!There is fierce competition on the pitch between EA'sFIFA 2005and Codemasters'Club Football 2005, Atomic Planet releases itsJackie Chantitle with EyeToy interactivity after the infamy of theirGuy Gamedebacle, Nintendo encourages us to nurture our green thumbs for a second time inPikmin 2and Big Blue Box'sFabletakes our breath away.Keep reading for details…Without a doubt, the winner of the week is the superb Fable. Don't take my word for it, listen toGreg. It is truly a spectacular game, regardless of Peter Molyneux's self-critical apologies for not reaching the state of the divine that he would have liked. For us mere mortals it will do just nicely.If anything, Fable is the precursor to Massively Multiplayer Online Games on consoles. While it exists solely offline, somehow the collective creative genius of Big Blue Box studios has developed a title which keeps the social elements of human interaction alive in computerised AI. Take on the mantle of Hero and choose your destiny. As with all of Molyneux's titles, be good or evil. You decide. Great for us control freaks. XBox only.Pikmin 2 gets my silver medal this week, primarily because it's booted Fable off the television screen since Tuesday (much to my chagrin). Little has changed in the formula of this macro-puzzle gardening-simulation from the creator of Mario and Zelda. You're still on a foreign planet, you still have to plant and grow little seed dudes called Pikmin. A couple of nice additions though: you can delegate many of the menial tasks to your trusty assistant and you can wander at will. Time is, erm, no object. Re-play value is still low, but Pikmin 2's great for brain exercise after a long day. GameCube only.Jackie Chan Adventures is a pretty straightforward take on the hit kids' cartoon series. As an action adventure title, players are charged with solving puzzles, finding talismans and kicking comedy butt against the evil that stands in the way. Some of the EyeToy games are quite literally hilarious, and this is the first title for which smacking bad guys in the face with your booty is appropriate. It's only available on PS2.And finally, the football games kick off the season (is it the season?!) on every console known to man and woman. First up is FIFA 2005, featuring thewell-publicisedcontributions of DJ Paul Oakenfold. Trying to get a foot on the pitch in a very odd week to release is Club Football 2005. I'm afraid I'm going to have to leave these two to people who know football. I just don't. You can read the Online review of FIFAhere, but otherwise, Greg? Keef?Next week I will mostly be playingDonkey Kongato practice my cool rhythm action skillz.
Major record labels have vowed to take on computer giants such as Microsoft and Apple in an effort to establish a common standard for digital music and avoid a repeat of the damaging video format wars between VHS and Betamax in the 1980s.They are determined to ensure that music fans with portable digital music players such as Apple's popular iPod can download and play tracks from online shops running rival Microsoft copyright software.Jay Berman, the chairman of global trade body the International Federation of Phonographic Industries, said the labels would work together to put pressure on technology companies to establish a common standard for downloads.Apple, which makes the popular iPod portable music player, has insisted on using its own propriety format for songs downloaded from iTunes music store, while rival sites use alternative technology developed by Microsoft.However, the decisions have caused havoc for consumers - tracks downloaded from iTunes will only play on an iPod while tracks downloaded from rival services such as Napster, My Coke Music and MSN will not.And other portable music devices, such as those made by Creative, Rio and Sony, are not compatible with iTunes but do play tracks downloaded from the dozens of rival services.Apple has borne the brunt of the criticism for refusing to open up its technology to other online music retailers. Some record executives have likened the situation to forcing owners of a certain brand of CD player to buy their music from a single high street record store.Earlier this year Apple threatened to sue rival download store RealNetworks for making its tracks available to iPod owners.Because the iPod is by far the most popular portable player and  iTunes is the most popular online download retailer, selling more than 100 million tracks in the year since it launched in the US,  it is in Apple's interests to maintain the status quo for as long as possible.But Mr Berman said  it was vital for the industry to establish a single digital rights management technology as part of a strategy to popularise legal downloads among consumers."We are trying to decide how to make a digital rights management platform that would be compatible across all the various services. We think it should be based on interoperability," he said."We've just started the discussions in the last couple of weeks, involving the IFPI and the Recording Industry Association of America. I'm very optimistic."The move is part of the record industry's attempt to fight back against falling global sales. It is simultaneously attempting to popularise legal download sites while taking legal action against those who illegally swap pirated tracks over file-sharing networks.While Apple has been widely praised for bringing online music into the mainstream market, some labels have complained it has priced tracks too low, making it difficult for them to make a profit from them.And independent labels in Europe such as Domino, home to Franz Ferdinand, and Ministry of Sound have also clashed with the California-based company. Despite agreeing a deal to distribute their music through iTunes weeks ago, their bands have still not been added to the service.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
It's been a busy day for Nintendo. The company announcedfull detailsof the Nintendo DS launch in the US.Highlights include the new Zelda game - one that will let players compete wirelessly and off only one cartridge. Other releases, predictably, include DS versions of Mario, Pokemon and Metroid.But, after seeing DS atE3I'm a bit worried for it. Sure, the fans will lap this all up, but as good as these franchises are, is it really going widen the market? What about confusion for parents who have just bought Game Boy Advance SP's for their kids or themselves? Does DS have a chance against PSP?Time - and hands-on play - will tell...
Politicians and IT don't mix. Show an MP a computer and the chances are they will suddenly remember an urgent appointment with the Standing Committee on Tea-Towel Absorbancy. Ministers are even more averse, preferring to stay well off the subject without a posse of civil servants as backup.You can't blame them. Many senior politicians come from a generation that never had to understand computers. Since the dotcom bust, there has been little glory in being associated with e-thingies. And like a masked assassin lurking behind every pillar, there is the ever-present risk of being permanently associated with the next great government IT fiasco.Small wonder, then, that IT scarcely figured in this year's   round of political party conferences. Even as an engine for modern and cheaper public services, which was supposed to be on the agenda everywhere.True, Tony Blair was able to make a couple of good news announcements involving IT, but neither involved much risk-taking. Broadband for all by 2008 is a logical outcome of the government's current aggregation strategy and BT's good intentions. Project Semaphore, the first phase in the "e-Borders" scheme to track comings and goings into Britain, was no great surprise - most people assumed something along these lines was already happening.So lots of credit to the New Local Government Network for running fringe sessions at all three main party conferences promoting a subject that should interest every   elected politician: e-democracy.The Labour conference session (of which I was a slightly redundant chair) disproved my gross generalisations about politicians. It included contributions from a councillor blogger as well as a minister travelling without posse.The blogger was Andrew Brown, cabinet member for the environment at the London borough of Lewisham. One speciality of his blog,www.20six.co.uk, is shaming fly-posts and graffiti, which he snaps with his PDA. The right-on European Social Forum gets the treatment this week. "The organisers of the European Social forum talk about 'environmental crisis' but don't see any link to the way they behave in their local environment."The minister was Phil Hope,   undersecretary of state at the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister. There was no reason to doubt his sincerity when he said that e-government is the most rewarding item in his portfolio. After all, he is also responsible for extricating local authorities from their pensions quagmire, which must make electronic service delivery look like one giant funfair.Up to now, e-government has also involved dishing out funds to innovative local authorities, which is always more fun than taking money away. Hope sounded a warning, however. Opposition MPs are beginning to see government spending on e-services not as a solution to bureaucracy but as an extravagance crying out to be culled. It may be that this aspect of IT, at least, is about to become the subject of a great deal of political interest.&#183;Send comment toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please  include address and phone number. If you do not want  your email address published, please say so.
Google, the increasingly powerful internet search engine, could overhaul the way books are sold with a planned service that allows users to search full texts and buy titles online.The company founders, Sergey Brin and Larry Page, are at the Frankfurt Book Fair this week wooing publishers in the hope of convincing them to provide their catalogues for inclusion in the service, Google Print.It has already signed up several big names including Penguin, Houghton Mifflin, Blackwell and Oxford University Press.Since Mr Brin and Mr Page founded Google from a college dormitory six years ago, the service has become a cultural phenomenon with users increasingly relying on it to find information. It handles more than 200m searches a day and has added functions including a news service which aggregates stories from the world's media and Froogle, a shopping marketplace.Google Print searches books according to key words and throws up a handful of titles at the top of the results.Entering "trekking in Ecuador", for instance, throws up three titles next to a book icon. Users can then click on any one and are taken through to a digitised version of a selected page of the book.Publishers choose how much of the text is made available for users to browse through. In the case of The Mountaineers Books company, 16 pages of its Trekking in Ecuador is online. Users are not able to print the pages off.The book can be further interrogated with other key words, allowing users to find out, for instance, if a particular region of Ecuador is included.Links are provided to the appropriate page of various online booksellers includingAmazon.com, barnesand-noble.com and in this case directly to the publisher.Google has no financial relationship with any of the book sellers and makes money from advertising carried on the pages of text.Relatively few books have been included so far and the service is still having teething problems. Not every search for trekking in Ecuador is throwing up the book options in its search results.Susan Wojcicki, the director of product development at Google, said the book service was a "natural step in Google's evolution. It's part of the same mission we have had since launching six years ago to organise the world's information. Our goal in making books available is to improve and enhance our searches".There were no plans to begin selling books directly, she added. "Our plan is to be a search engine." Google licenses the search technology to Amazon and Ms Wojcicki said that relationship would not be affected.Publishers are able to sign up online and send their books to Google, where they are scanned and added to the search index for no cost. Ms Wojcicki said publishers and authors "will be able to attract new readers and increase book sales". To entice publishers, it plans to share advertising revenues with them.Wall Street has been watching for Google to introduce new services since it joined the stock market amid a huge fanfare in August.In April, Google turned up the heat on Yahoo! and Microsoft by announcing plans to launch a free email service, called Gmail, that would offer huge amounts of extra capacity.The service, however - which is still being tested - caused concern about privacy issues because of the way it would make revenues - emails would be scanned by computer for keywords and then carry targeted ads.Analysts were yesterday uncertain how much of an impact Google Print would have on the company's bottom line.Its shares have risen more than 60% since the flotation.
"Since announcing a crackdown on rogue internet diallers BT has said it has blocked 1,000 numbers allegedly associated with the problem," reportsvnunet.com."BT said it has now dealt with 45,000 cases where customers have fallen foul of a rogue dialler, with a further 9,500 cases waiting to be resolved."
Record companies in the UK are for the first time to sue music fans who download tracks illegally from the internet.The British Phonographic Industry, the trade body for record labels in the UK, is to announce at a press conference today it will take legal action against those who make their record collections available on the web for others to copy.It is following in the footsteps of US labels that sparked a huge row last year after a 12-year-old schoolgirl in New York was sued  for downloading songs and ended up paying $2,000 in an out of court settlement.She was one of more than 200 people sued in America.The BPI hopes that by going after so-called "uploaders" - those who make digital music files available to others via file-sharing programmes such as Kazaa and Grokster - it will be able to win the PR fight as well as the legal battle.The trade body is expected to argue that it plans to target a hardcore 15% of uploaders who are responsible for 75% of all illegal file-sharing on the internet.But some of those caught up in the legal action are likely to be surprised by the move because anyone signing up to file-sharing programmes automatically makes their own library available to others.The BPI will point to figures showing that seven in 10 people now know that file-sharing is illegal and are aware of the legal alternatives such as Apple's iTunes and Napster and new services offered from the likes of Coca-Cola, Microsoft, Oxfam and Woolworths.Record labels believe it is essential to establish file-sharing as illegal in the minds of the public as portable music players such as the iPod become mass market consumer items.Today's announcement follows a BPI warning in March threatening music pirates in the UK with legal action.Since then it has sent hundreds of thousands of instant internet messages to desktops warning the most frequent users of file-swapping sites that they were being watched.The industry body says its warnings have not deterred the most prolific file-swappers, and today's announcement will send a much stronger message to persistent offenders.UK singles sales have more than halved since 1999, it says, when downloading took off. Sales of CD albums in the UK have bucked the global trend and  continue  to rise.But record labels are concerned album sales will go the same way as singles, once broadband, which speeds up downloading, is more widely used.The BPI cites research showing that music downloaders spent as much as 32% less on albums and 59% less on singles.But those figures have been questioned by others who argue that file-sharing has no detrimental effect on sales, acting instead as a marketing tool for music fans to discover new bands and genres.They argue the downturn in sales has been caused as much by the industry's over-reliance on disposable pop acts and a lack of innovation as the effect of new technology.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
I was just reminded of the urgency of getting my US postal vote to the powers that be by the November election by Lara Croft. Yes, it may seem incongruous, but the British busty brunette is part of a campaign withMTVto get the youth to tick that important box on November 2nd. Go on kids, tick the one with thedonkey!Personal politics aside (you can vote for theelephantif you want to),Variety.com,Gamasutraand/.report that Lara's joined by Sonic the Hedgehog, Tony Hawk and Leisure Suit Larry, plus 50 other game favourites to stir the Nation's eligible Generation X, Y and Z'ers out of post-teen political apathy. VG Unity: Stand and Choose (gag me with a spoon, marketing department) will be webcast on the network'sPRElectionsite before hitting the televisual airwaves across the MTV channels. Registration is required to see it, and you can register to vote at the same time.I suspect anti-game senators likeJoseph Liebermannnever imagined they'd end up relying upon game characters to get votes.If you can't vote in the US elections but feel the sympathetic need to vote for something, you can have your say for your favourite game character of all time to be inducted into theWalk of Game.
Pop impresario Pete Waterman, who launched the careers of Kylie Minogue and Steps, today angrily rejected suggestions that his industry only had itself to blame for the fall in music sales in recent years.The outspoken music producer also attacked artists such as Blur, Franz Ferdinand and Robbie Williams, who have spoken out in favour of illegal internet downloads as a way of allowing fans to sample music.Consumer groups have suggested the high price of CDs and the amount of time it took record labels to get to grips with internet piracy have forced music fans to turn to illegal file-sharing sites.But Waterman, speaking at a press conference to mark the launch of legal action against 28 major online pirates in the UK, argued music prices had fallen in recent years."I've seen CD prices drop from £14 to £8. I'm certainly not getting paid £14 for a CD any more," said Waterman.He said artists such as the Blur drummer, Dave Rowntree, were only able to claim file sharing did not harm CD sales because they already had millions in the bank."It's preposterous. How do they know that? The BPI isn't speaking on behalf of all the industry," Rowntree said earlier this year.Waterman hit back: "Blur who? They're still going are they? EMI owns Blur's rights. I think you might find it different if you got all four of them in a room and asked if they wanted money taken out of their bank accounts."If Franz Ferdinand and Blur want to give their music away for nothing, that's between them and their record company. This is not the NHS. This is music, you buy it."I can understand from the outside how it might look as though we've been dragging our feet - we have not. Everybody is protecting their rights, this is a complex issue."The BPI chairman, Peter Jamieson, said some artists would always support piracy - either to gain publicity or because they really believed in it - but most had got the message."We have spoken to many in the management community and the artist community - the more people listened, the more they understood," he said."The record business is still a hits business - only one release in 10 makes money. And that one hit supports an investment in a new band or new career."Artists have been undermining the PR efforts of their own record labels, which have been trying to convince record buyers that online piracy is akin to shoplifting.The Travis singer, Fran Healy, said last year that online song swapping sites were "brilliant"."Kazaa and Napster and all that stuff is a brilliant way for kids to taste the album. Usually kids hear one track that's good, then they go out and buy the album and it turns out to be shit," said Healey.      Robbie Williams outraged his record company, EMI, which had recently signed up the singer for £80m, by saying internet piracy was "great".Waterman and Mr Jamieson argued it was immoral for top-selling artists to speak out in favour of file sharing when it was the struggling acts who lost out."We have been warning people for months that unauthorised file sharing is illegal. These are not people casually downloading the odd track," said Mr Jamieson."They are uploading music on a massive scale, effectively stealing the livelihoods of thousands of artists and the people who invest in them."Feargal Sharkey, the former Undertones frontman who is now a radio regulator, said that the legal action was necessary to protect the artists that earn the least."I find it extraordinary - given the fact that 60% of musicians in the UK earn less than £10,000 a year and 94% of songwriters and composers receive less than £10,000 a year in royalty payments - that we are prepared to ask musicians and songwriters to turn up for work every day and not get paid for it," said Sharkey.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
I'm really beginning to worry about mobile games. I've played a heck of a lot of new ones over the past week or so, and I've noticed that very few developers seem willing to address the INTRINSIC LIMITATIONS of the mobile handset as a gaming device. Here is where I think things are going wrong…For a start, many phones don't have joystick/direction pads, and those that do usually only offer four-way movement, so travelling diagonally is a no-no. Lots of games like Judge Dredd, Werewolf and FIFA 2005, do try to get around this problem by putting diagonal movement on the keypad, but this is a bit of a fudge in my opinion. I don't think I have fat fingers but when two or more digits hit the pad of my Nokia 6600 (not even a particularly small phone) genuine intuitive control over the game just falls apart. Should we perhaps be holding off on these games until phones with eight-way d-pads are commonplace? Or maybe not bother at all.Also, very few mobile handsets allow you to press more than one button at a time. This means that attempting everyday multi-tasking activities such as running and shooting, running and jumping, or in fact running and doing anything else whatsoever, are out of the question. When beset by enemies, it's unjust to expect a player to stop, shoot, and then continue running – and yet so many games require you to do just that.And don't even get me started on the limitations of J2ME, the mobile derivative of the Java programming language. If you've ever played a Java game you'll know what they are: 'music' that consists of little more than a few bleeps strung together into what can only be optimistically referred to as a tune, and animation that is often so sluggish you can make a cup of tea in the time it takes a bullet to reach it's intended target – on the other a screen that measure barely an inch and a half. Sun Microsystems is addressing the problem and many handsets now support a perkier new version of Java with lots more game-specific features, but I've yet to see many titles that exploit the benefits.Of course, this is the reason why so many people are still playing Space Invaders, Pac Man and Tetris on their phones. These games were designed with a simple interface in mind. They lose nothing in the translation to a limited mobile format. Okay, it's great that mobile phones are now on the multi-format checklist for many new releases, but publishers really need to think about how their franchises are realised on this emerging format. If this market is going to develop, mobile gamers needed to be treated with a little respect. There needs to be an understanding of the hardware.Ubisoft's relationship with mobile developerGameloftis a brilliant example of how it should be done. The mobile translation of Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow is a 2D platformer – Gameloft hasn't tried to mimic the 3D visuals of the title's console counterparts. And yet the essence of the gameplay – sneaking about in the shadows, working out how to takedown enemies with as little fuss or noise as possible, solving mini-puzzles strewn throughout the locations – are all present. The pace is perfect too. When you arrive on a new screen, you're very rarely in immediate danger. You get time to analyse the movement patterns of enemies and figure out how you can get to them without being seen. Speed and lightning responses are not integral elements of the game dynamic so the sluggishness of the animation is never really an issue.And of course there are plenty of new, original mobile games that understand and work within the limits of the technology. Just about everything thatMorphemecreates is worth playing, because the company makes simple, funny, bright games with lots of decent ideas – the sort of games that built the home computer entertainment industry of the early eighties. Check out Balloon-Headed Boy or Phantom Mansion and you'll see what I mean. In today's Online section of the Guardian I rave aboutSumea's Jumbo Rumble, a laughably dumb multiplayer elephant battle game which allows three players to take part simultaneously on one handset. Brilliant.By getting ahead of itself and constantly outpacing the hardware, the mobile games industry is in real danger of completely alienating its audience forever. I mean, it's hard enough to actually download games without making them impossible to play, too. Vodafone Live! And the O2 Games Arcade are very good, but often mobile users aren't sure how much they're paying for the game, or where it'll download to on their handset, or if the title in question is actually compatible with their phone anyway. At least the major network operators are trying to make things as simple as possible - and with 3G set to launch over the next few months they really need to. They know (or at leasthope) there's going to be big money in multimedia downloads – games, video, music – when this faster, slicker service is fully operational. They know they have to get things right.But somehow things aren't quite right. Not yet. The mobile handset is getting pulled in all sorts of directions that it doesn't want to go in. 3D gaming? It'll arrive next year, and companies like ATI and nVidia are working on specialist 3D chipsets for the latest handsets. But I know that when these phones arrive, developers will immediately become too ambitious, attempting to jam in all the latest special effects, rather than sitting down and thinking, "okay, how can we use 3D visuals to really offer something new in terms of mobile gameplay? And should we perhaps start with flat-shaded polys before barging in with alpha blending, environment-mapping and multi-layered textures?"I want to see more games that use the unique capabilities of mobiles, rather than games that try and ignore the limitations. Last year UK developerMacrospacelaunched Cannons ME an over-the-air two-player combat game allowing users from around the country to engage in tank warfare. This year, it is launching several more two-player games inviting you to hook up with strangers and play across the phone networks. French companyInfusiois doing a similar thing via its ExEn platform. There have also been several Bluetooth compatible games (Bluetooth Biplanes, Pat Cash Tennis, Fatal Force) that let players in close proximity engage in two-player bouts. These really focus in on the intrinsic social connotations of the mobile phone.I also like camera phone games likeElkware's Photo Pet where you have to feed your onscreen creature by taking photographs of specific colours. It's an idea that originated in Japan where clever game concepts that could only be realised on mobile phones are common. You may well have heard of the mobile fishing game that uses location-based technology to discover where the user is and then changes the in-game weather and time of day to match the real world environment. Then there is the burgeoning world of the location-based game which allows participants to turn cities into game levels.Botfightersfor example.But of course for western mobile developers – who do not have an audience so receptive to quirky ideas - it's easier and less of a gamble to hook up with a nice console conversion job - to try and squeeze a PS2 title onto as large a range of handsets as possible. It's classic short-term thinking and it is leading to a stunted industry. Let's face it, trying to accurately replicate console titles can, by definition, only ever lead to a diminished gameplay experience. Look at Game Boy Advance – some of its poorest titles are conversions of PS2, Xbox and Game Cube bestsellers. Its best are titles like WarioWare – designed specifically with GBA in mind.Most gamers find it hard to take mobile games seriously. I find it hard to blame them a lot of the time. But then when I'm playing crazy stuff like Balloon-Headed Boy I realise that mobile developers don'tneedto seduce gamers. They have a mass entertainment device on their hands – there could be two billion mobile phone users in the world by 2006. What is needed are ideas that will capture the imagination of the typical non-gaming phone owner. Those ideas won't come from slavishly converting inappropriate games to a platform that isn't designed to handle them. These ideas will come when designers start to think about the unique properties of the mobile format. And when someone does hit upon a truly mass entertainment mobile phone experience, you can forget about the impact made by Space Invaders, or Tetris, or Doom, or Pokemon or The Sims. They'll be blasted away. I believe that - even now while I'm struggling to achieve diagonal movement on a simple footie sim. I believe it, but I'm still worried.
I needed an excuse. An iPod might well be this season's must have for the technologist-about-town, and being able to carry thousands of tracks around with you is clearly attractive, but the cost wasn't to be taken lightly. So I justified the outlay with a vague promise to use the thing for backups as well. It's an investment in safety, I lied to myself, and handed over the cash.It wasn't, it turns out, entirely self-delusional. Last week, in a panic of clunking and grinding, my laptop's hard drive tore itself into pieces. If I hadn't been using the little white box as a backup as well as a personal stereo, I'd be in the corner weeping.The iPod, you see, has become the platform for a raft of applications. Some silly, some useful, others plain weird.First, the useful. I back up all my data from my Mac to my iPod using iMsafe. A couple of button pushes when I finish work each night, and I can be sure my documents, music, pictures, movies, application setting and passwords are all safely backed up. As I rarely leave the house without my iPod, I know I won't lose my data. This is a Mac application, mind, although a Windows alternative is sure to appear soon.Windows users can back up their address books and appointments with a package called iPodSync. This connects to Outlook and stores your contacts, tasks, notes, and calendar on your iPod - and you can access the data from the screen, too.Secret data, I hear you ask? No worries. Pariahware's Pod Secret, for Mac and Windows, allows you to store encrypted notes on the iPod,   which is good for credit card details and secret plans for world domination.If domination really is your bag, it's good to keep in touch with your henchmen. PodMail for the Mac and K-pod for Windows will connect your iPod directly to your email server, ready for reading on the underground. Not enough? EarMail goes   one further and reads mail to you.If you prefer to drive, then PodQuest is for you - Mac only. Given two addresses, it will download driving directions to your favourite gadget. Pod2Go will download the latest weather forecast for wherever you're going, as well as horoscopes, local cinema times, stock prices and song lyrics.LyriPod is a specialist application for song lyrics. Portable karaoke was never so easy. For a good party, all we need is that and some drinks. Cheers for Podtender, then, with its 900 cocktail recipes. Its sister application, PodGourmet, has more than 260 recipes. Both work on Mac or PC, as does BiblePod for post-party absolution. It allows the transfer of sections   of the King James Bible formatted for the iPod's tiny screen.If the excitement gets too much, pPod is probably the answer. Claimed to be the world's first "iPod-based interactive audio service", it's a combined text, spoken word and audio guide to London's public toilets. Find the nearest convenience, and hear a review before you venture in.All these applications are iPod only, which is fitting considering the dominance the device has over the disk-based MP3 player market.But whether you're using an iPod or not, these high-capacity systems are also enabling new types of long content. Audible.com's audiobooks have graced these pages before, and they continue to be a great success, but they are not the only source for good listening. The OpenCourseWare initiative aims to put all of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's course materials online, including MP3s of lectures. I'm undertaking my evening runs while listening to Professor Schneider's lectures on neuroscience and behaviour.The iSpeakIt application will read any document to you, even those in Word and PDF, so all the copyright-free e-books on the web can be thrown on to your iPod.Audiobooksforfree.com has plenty of other good listening, too, and the whole atmosphere is encouraging others to record audiobooks. The Open Audiobooks Project is recruiting volunteers to record a free audiobook of Pride and Prejudice.So there is plenty to listen to while rebuilding your broken laptop, or when you are reading your email on the loo.iMsafehttp://homepage.mac.com/sweetcocoa/imsafeA&gt;iPodSynchttp://iccnet.50megs.com/iPodSyncPodSecretandK-podwww.k-deep.com/k-pod.htmPodQuesthttp://www.mibasoft.dk/podquest.htmlLyriPodhttp://www.versiontracker.com/dyn/moreinfo/macosx/22220PodGourmetwww.enriquequinterodesign.com/podgourmetEarMailwww.newton-eig.comPod2Gowww.kainjow.com/pod2goPodTenderwww.enriquequinterodesign.com/podtender.htmlBiblePodwww.kainjow.com/biblepod/pPodhttp://www.nykris.com/template.php?id=64iSpeakitwww.zapptek.com/ispeak-itMIT courseshttp://jcm.mit.edu/coursework
Last year saw anonymous weblogs hit the headlines. Salam Pax brought the world an insider's view of Iraq, while Belle de Jour racked up readers with the salacious diaries of a London call girl. Thanks in part to these secretive success stories, anonymous weblogs - which offer readers a real-time connection to hidden, dangerous and often taboo worlds - are a feature of online life.Now a new group of anonymous webloggers has emerged en masse, but this time they are covering more mundane territory. Job blogs bring frontline news from the modern workplace, documenting its stupid routines, petty frustrations and inane management-speak.Call Centre Confidential was perhaps the first to gain real recognition - it did well in last year's Guardian weblog awards - and has proved an inspiration to others. Now Wrapstar's regular posts about call centre life have been joined by blogs taking readers behind the scenes at schools (The Report Card), NHS trusts (Doing Less Harm) and police stations (The Policeman's Blog).There are blogs by burger flippers (Diary of a Fast Food Life) and supermarket shelf stackers (My Life as a Morrison's Employee). Natural Born Liars does its best to confirm clients' worst fears about what ad agency employees do with their money, while Bitch PhD is by a university academic who admits not having read some of the texts she teaches - as well as offering a blow by blow account, as it were, of her open marriage.Most job bloggers seem to see their sites as a "place to vent", somewhere to work off the irritations and upsets of the daily grind. Diary of a Fast Food Life is "a great outlet for the   more irritating aspects of my job, for example, things which I couldn't directly say to customers", says the author, JT. Others are trying to work out larger concerns. Professor B, who writes Bitch PhD, uses her blog "to work out my incredible anxieties over my academic identity, and to put those anxieties out there in a public forum because a lot of people feel them". According to Doc, the writer behind Doing Less Harm, his blog grew out of swapping funny stories with NHS work colleagues. "Someone once said to me that mine were always the funniest and that I had a knack for storytelling."Over the past two decades, people have used "personal media" to document their working lives. In the 1980s, fanzines such as Processed World and Temp Slave featured personal rants about office boredom. These spread online via early webzines such as Disgruntled Employee. However, job blogs have ditched politics for a more individual focus.Most job bloggers see their sites as primarily personal, but - maybe because many of them write about public services - they can't help but have a larger significance. Perhaps job blogs represent a kind of low-level whistle blowing: while they may not expose corporate crimes, they do shine a light on stupidity. JT, of Fast Food Life, agrees. "If visitors read my blog and think they would never want to work in a fast food place, decide to be more polite when dealing with staff in service industries, and think they should eat more healthily, I'd consider that an achievement."Others are more wary. "I just wanted to narrow the gap between the public's perception of what we do all day and what we actually do all   day," says the author of the Policeman's Blog, who writes as Dave Campbell. "I've commented on issues facing the police but I try to do it from the perspective of someone who just deals with the system as it is, rather than someone who has some master plan for police reform."You could argue that job blogs are a way of kicking back against our overwork culture. As people work longer hours, blogging is a way of wasting a little time and claiming back some mental space. It's a way of dealing with office stress by taking control and making work "your story" - a comedy in which the blogger has the starring role and all the best lines.Call Centre Confidential's Wrapstar isn't convinced. "Generations of my family worked down a pit to feed their kids; these days people may worry 'does my boss rate me?' and work through their lunch shuffling their inbox, but it's to keep their kids in DVDs. Get a grip." Others remain similarly unimpressed. A large   number of job bloggers said they really enjoy their jobs, but what does upset them is idiocy at work. On Doing Less Harm, Doc has railed about his NHS trust spending "thousands of pounds on getting a new logo when there are wards where eight nurses have to share one PC, which is locked in the sister's office".Exposing management stupidity could have serious consequences, which is why job bloggers remain anonymous. Even if you focus more on the idiocies of the media or politicians than your direct boss, blogging from the office can be risky. Worries about getting caught led British Spin, the blogger behind British Politics, to start sending out his political musings via email. "As the blog got more popular, updating it as frequently as a news and current affairs site needs to be, interfered with my real work. Also, I felt unhappy that blogging at work drives you to a shorter and shorter writing style - I wanted to write thoughtful things and ended   up posting one-liners with a link."Job bloggers may post from the safety of their own homes, but their readers are often logging on while still at work. For Bitch PhD's Professor B, such readers are working through their worries. We work longer hours and increasingly identify ourselves with our jobs, she says. "But at the same time people don't think their jobs are permanent any more. That creates an enormous amount of stress and anxiety, and I think people are trying to work out that conflict."As readers identify with job bloggers, many seem to trust that what they say is true. Are they right to do so? After all, some could easily be clever hoaxes. Clearly, they all change names and places to avoid being found out, but regular readers often build up a kind of relationship that enables them to assess how seriously to take them. Some writers admit to tweaking certain stories to make them funnier. "Call   Centre Confidential is more honest than true," says Wrapstar. "The things that happen do happen, but not necessarily in the right order. My motivation is to entertain. I'm never going to let the truth get in the way, and I have made it clear: given the choice between the truth and the legend, I'll print the joke."But others say that while they do not consider themselves journalists, they feel a responsibility to tell it like it is. "My blog is the truth. It's not embellished," says Mr Teacher. "If something happens at work, I try to find a quiet place (usually the toilet) to write it down, including exact quotes. The media only cares about sensational things that will improve their rating. Blogs like mine are personal accounts from people who have nothing to gain, which is what I think the public want nowadays."Erwin James, who is not a blogger but writes a pseudonymous Guardian column about prison life, believes trust is vitally important to anonymous writers."For me, it was an opportunity to talk about reality," he says. "It had to be honest, it had to be real, it had to be true. But I also had to protect people, particularly those I harmed 20 years ago. But there are problems with anonymous writing on the internet; it always depends on context."Imagine, for example, if a whistleblower decided to use the web to reveal their secrets. How long could they remain anonymous? Last year, GCHQ worker Katherine Gunn told the Observer that the intelligence services had been bugging the United Nations. But what would have happened if she had chosen a weblog to get her message across?Even if such a story were picked up by more mainstream media, it seems unlikely that anyone would give the information credit without demanding an identity behind the source.Despite writing under a pseudonym, Erwin James agrees with the sceptics."Ironically, I'm suspicious of people who write anonymously," he says. "I can rationalise why I do it, but I wonder what other people are hiding."Perhaps the responsibility job bloggers feel most is to themselves. Paradoxically, that may mean some readers trust them as much, if not more, than big media outlets."Face it," says Mr Teacher of The Report Card. "We all have problems where we work, so I think that people like reading about others' problems and can relate to them."LINKSCall Centre Confidentialcallcentrediary.blogspot.comThe Report Cardthereportcard.blogspot.comDoing Less Harmanytownnhstrust.blogspot.comThe Policeman's Blogcoppersblog.blogspot.comDiary of a Fast Food Lifefast-life.blogspot.comMy Life as a Morrison's Employeemorrisons-employee.blogspot.comNatural Born Liarstheadvertisingagency.blogspot.comBritish Politicsbritishspin.blogspot.com&#183;Send comment toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please  include address and phone number. If you do not want  your email address published, please say so.
Swansea council workers voted for strike action today after plans for the city's IT department prompted fears of privatisation and redundancies.However, the public services union Unison has suspended an eight-week strike of the city's IT staff, following negotiations through the conciliation service Acas.In a vote of 5,000 Unison council employees, 63% voted in favour of action including strikes, on a turnout of 41.2%.A meeting of 700 union members yesterday decided in favour of a series of one-day strikes and an overtime ban.However, the Unison regional organiser, Jeff Baker, said the union had given the council's managers three weeks' notice, rather than the minimum one week, in the hope that they would give formal assurances against privatisation of services and compulsory redundancies.In a statement, Swansea council said: "We are saddened by the outcome of the ballot. The council wants what is best for the people of Swansea and its staff."There is no hidden agenda on privatisation or redundancies. Any fears which staff may have on these issues are unfounded."All of Swansea's 108 IT staff have been on strike over plans for an e-government project, service@swansea, to provide a single gateway for enquiries to the council.Unison believed the project would mean IT staff having to transfer to a private sector firm under an outsourcing deal.The council said that such a transfer was just one of three options, the others involving council staff being seconded to one of two firms shortlisted for the project, Cap Gemini and ITNet, or for the chosen firms simply to provide support.It said a final decision would not be taken by the council's cabinet until December at the earliest.     The strike of IT staff has been suspended, although not cancelled, following an Acas-brokered offer. They will not join the one-day strikes, but will probably still not be at work as they are not expected to cross the picket line."The offer we give a cautious welcome to, because for the first time it includes the proper involvement of the staff in the decision-making process," said Mr Baker. "We remain cautious, as so much damage has been done to staff confidence."State-sector IT staff elsewhere have been transferred to the private sector in outsourcing deals, and a number of other councils have implemented similar 'single gateway' schemes. Swansea's plans include 'one-stop shops' - a single phone number for all queries and online services.
After a two-year delay, British manufacturer Sendo is set to release its debut smartphone, the X, on to the UK market. A Symbian device that uses the Series 60 interface, the X has core smartphone facilities such as POP3/IMAP email compatibility, integrated web browser and MP3 player. Owners can add software over the air or via its USB link to a PC.Where the Sendo X scores is with its small, convenient design - reminiscent of Orange's SPV C200 - its larger than average screen and its unique Now interface. This enables users to customise the phone to deliver their favourite applications to the screen - to see appointments or have instant access to the most-used websites.While those wanting megapixel cameras on their smartphone should check out the Nokia 7610, or the upcoming Sony Ericsson P910 for mini keyboards, the Sendo X is possibly the best Symbian-based mini smartphone on sale. Available from around &#163;100, it is warmly recommended.www.sendo.com
Yusuf Medhi is one of the internet's major players, with properties that bring in $2.2bn (&#163;1.23bn) in revenues and, recently, $121m in profits. But he's not making the covers of the weekly business magazines, or lining up a share issue, because his business is a small part of a much larger company: Microsoft.Medhi runs MSN, the Microsoft Network, which includes Microsoft's portals, MSN Search, MSN Music, MSN BillPay, MSN Radio Plus, Hotmail, Messenger, and other services. It has 350m unique visitors a month, 187m active Hotmail accounts and 135m Messenger users. What is more important, perhaps, is that Medhi is in the frontline of the battles against Google in the search business, and Apple's iTunes in music downloads.MSN was originally set up to compete with AOL, and still has 4.3m internet access customers - a number that is in decline as users switch to broadband. Today, of course, the main threat comes from Google, which is a powerhouse in the search business, and plans to extend search to the desktop. It has bought Blogger, and is launching Gmail web-based email. It already has news, shopping and directory services, the Usenet archive, and a social networking system, Orkut. It is now expected to launch its own web browser, Gbrowser, and could well enter the instant messaging market.If Medhi - who worked on Windows 95 and Internet Explorer before moving to MSN five years ago - is worried, he did not show it when we met at Microsoft's office in Soho, London.It seems to me that one of the problems with MSN is that, when run as a separate company, its best interests may conflict with Microsoft's. For example, people complain that Microsoft has not been developing its IE browser, but MSN has been offering a more advanced version with pop-up blocking, MSN Explorer. Would it have been better for Microsoft to ship that to everyone, instead of MSN's premium service users?"MSN plays a couple of important roles," Medhi says. "One is that we're now an engine of growth for the company, and from last year, a profitable one. The second thing is that we are the consumer arm for the company: we touch 350m customers a month, now, and we're building very positive relationships for the company. The third thing is that we are pioneering a lot of online services for the company: the online advertising platform and strategy for the whole company (because we're looking at bringing   advertising to other software products), and high-scale operations such as our Hotmail service and forthcoming search service. We'll run things like Passport and the billing services. In many respects, Steve Ballmer &#91;Microsoft's chief executive&#93; would say we're the services arm for the company, and would want us to do more."Music download services are another area of potential conflict. Microsoft wants its software and media standards used by as many services as possible, of which MSN is just one. Is MSN competing with Microsoft's own customers?"You're right, but there's a good mix of objectives, and in some respects I think it's actually the optimal for the company as a whole," Medhi replies. "The reason we're doing our own music services is that first, MSN makes its revenues by aggregating large audiences and then selling advertising. Music is a top activity on the web and can drive the advertising business."The second reason is that we want to redefine search and go to the next level, and music search is a big thing that happens on our site and on the web today. We want to bring you back that music, and with a single click let you listen to it."The third thing is that we're trying to sell premium services online, but the ability to bill consumers comes with hurdles - people have to sign up, give you their credit card. But music, at 99c a song, is a pretty low bar. If we can do a good job with our music service, we can develop billing relationships with millions of people, and we believe that will help sell other premium services down the road."The last thing is that we want to really drive Windows as a great place   to manage digital media, and by developing a best-in-class music service, we can show people how great it is on Windows - better than any other ecosystem. You might say, 'Hey, you can let partners do that,' but my view is that the market is very nascent, and if we can all grow the market, we'll all benefit. The real competition is not each other but the move to free and pirated music, and we are a company that believes in intellectual property."What about search? What can MSN do differently?"Our first version is going to be here pretty soon. We've studied the consumer dilemma quite a bit, and an average query ended up taking about 11 minutes. That's a long time, in our view. We should be able to build a service that can answer questions like: 'What's the distance from London to Madrid' or 'What should I buy my mom for her birthday?'"What do you need to do that? Software. You need to know the meaning of pages, to do natural language search, you have to include more information in the index, and you have to be able to search your own hard drive. Imagine being able to search within private databases such as eBay for data up to the last five minutes. And if it says 'Yusuf' on page 55 of a PowerPoint email attachment, we should find it. It's a big, tough, multifaceted problem."Finally, how does Medhi think MSN's battle against Google will work out?"I'm one of those people who loves lots of competition in the marketplace," he says, "because it encourages people to do their best work ... We'll certainly compete. Google is branching out, and if they take their eye off the ball, we may take a leadership position &#91;in search&#93;. Hope to! Plan to!"&#183;Send comment toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please
include address and phone number. If you do not want
your email address published, please say so.
