I have a confession to make: I am an MP3 junkie. There, I feel so much better already. I have gone from shelling out a fortune on records every week to rarely buying more than a few CDs a month, entirely due to this digital phenomenon.My group of MP3-savvy mates has morphed into an unspoken collective; once one person has shelled out for a CD, it gets "MP3'd" then emailed around to us all (it doesn't really, officer - that would be illegal, and therefore wrong). If you have no idea what I'm rambling about, good. Put the newspaper down and simply walk away. MP3 files are basically sonic crack. Just as illegal, only much, much cheaper to get your hands on.MP3 is the name given to MPEG Layer 3 files, produced by an encoding process called "ripping", supposedly because the process involves ripping out all of the noise which is inaudible to the human ear. This allows the encoding software to compact a hefty track from a CD and compact it down to a slimline MP3 file, a twelfth of its original size.To create your own MP3 files, all you need is a sound-enabled PC and the right software. Try Real Jukebox, downloadable for free fromwww.real.com/products/realjukebox. This program takes care of everything, recording the tracks from the album in your CD drive onto your PC, ripping them into MP3 files, and then playing them through your speakers. The whole process should take no more than a few minutes per track on a decent PC system. The end results are sound files which are almost as good as the originals, at a fraction of the size.MP3 was originally hyped as though all four horsemen of the Apocalypse had rolled up at once and asked if the record industry would like to take it "outside". As the papers breathlessly reported, "the kids" were "running amuck", downloading their favourite tunes   in MP3 format for free from dodgy web sites, rather than splashing out pocket money for them in HMV.Artists like Robbie Williams and The Corrs were quoted in the press as being alarmed by the boom in MP3 downloads, as it threatened their livelihood. The industry fought back, of course, with the help of the law, closing down sites by the hundred. Now it's rare to find a decent site to download from. And the record companies are coming online soon: the Time Warner/EMI merger was a move specifically intended to capitalise on the boom in online music.A few years ago, the fact that you could reduce a 40Mb album track down to no more than a few megabytes wouldn't really have got anyone interested. How would you have carried it around? Storage devices were then too bulky and expensive, and floppy disks aren't a practical solution for an album. Then the internet came along, and the perfect combination of application and delivery system presented itself. 1-3Mb might be a pain to download via your 56k dial-up connection at home, but hey, that's what work email   addresses are for!Nowadays if you have decent bandwidth and an understanding email system at work, you can quite easily email around your current favourite tracks to your friends (as long as your boss doesn't figure out who is regularly trying to squeeze 20Mb emails out of their inbox). If you're thinking of buying a CD and your friend has already got it, why not just get them to email a few tracks to you? If you like it, and your friends have as much time on their hands as mine seem to, you can always get the rest sent over and listen on your headphones. You don't even have to rip from CDs now; sites likewww.peoplesound.comlet you sample and download whole MP3 albums from unsigned bands. Listen to a few tracks for free, and if you like it that much, pay for the rest of it.I know what you're thinking though; it's all well and good having   music on your hard drive, but less fun if you want to listen to it away from your desk. Listening to music on your PC, not very sexy is it?Well, here's the masterstroke; portable MP3 players. They connect easily to your PC, and can download an album of music in minutes. The Diamond Rio was the first and is still a good buy, although Creative Labs has promised a UK version of its acclaimed US player Nomad this year. If you are looking at buying an MP3 Player, then 32Mb is the minimum memory it should pack, being enough for about an hour of tunes. 64Mb is much better, although the next generation of players will be measuring their memory in the gigabyte range.MP3 might have started out as a geek's hobby, but has spawned an entirely new type of "walkman", re-introduced the concept of "home taping", and forever altered the way record companies view their profit and loss sheets. Join the MP3 revolution and help terrorise Robbie Williams. Who could resist an offer like that?
King of the road returnsGran Turismo 2Sony PlayStation  &#163;34.99 *****There wasn't much wrong with the gameplay in Gran Turismo - it sold more than 7 million copies - and the sequel is almost identical. But what it does have is four times as many cars, more tracks, and more tests to pass before you're licensed to drive them.Gran Turismo 2 has more than 500 realistic simulations of different models and marques of car, including   Aston Martin, Alfa Romeo, Jaguar, Mercedes and BMW.  As well as current cars there are old cars, classic cars, and secret cars you can earn by turning in outstanding performances.In fact, there's so much stuff it comes on two CDs, with one for the arcade mode (instant racing) and one for the career gamer who wants more of a challenge.  As a championship racer, you have to buy and tune cars to create a machine that will win races, then use your winnings to buy more and better cars, better wheels, and so on.Since you start with only 10,000 unidentified currency units, it's best to head east and pick up a second-hand Honda Prelude Coupe or Nissan Skyline or whatever. But you'll have to look hard to find races where you have much of an advantage over the rest of the field.GT2 is tougher than the original, but fortunately the cars are forgiving: you can still win races after bouncing off a few walls, and tail-ending rivals who get in your way. There's never any visible damage to the car. However, spinning off the track is not a   winning strategy.The one thing that is really new here is a rally mode, where you race against time or, rather, against a ghost car that represents your fastest time. It's not Colin McRae Rally but it's an entertaining addition to a rich and complex simulation.In sum, if you thought Gran Turismo was superb, you'll probably like GT2 even more. But if you didn't play the original, there's not much point in paying more for the sequel.  (JS)Coming up for airpadAirpad controllerSony PlayStation &#163;24.99 Joytech 0800 389 9647  **Almost 20 years ago, I used to play Star Raiders, Atari's superb 3D spaceshooter, with a handheld controller that moved your ship according to which way you tilted it.However, it used a mercury switch, which wasn't very responsive, so there was always a trade-off between the controller's ease of use and getting a high score.Since then, a huge amount of very expensive technology has been thrown at the problem, to the extent that today's motion-sensitive devices might even be too sensitive... but the original problem has not gone away.One argument for the newAirpadis that it works with standard PlayStation games. I think I'd prefer a few titles with easier levels to compensate for my struggles with the controller.The worst problem is the seesaw effect. For example, tearing into a corner in a driving game, you tilt right to compensate and go too far, then tilt left and go too far the other way, tilt right, tilt left, hit wall, turn car over.To be fair, Airpad Corporation has tried to solve the problem. The controller has three sensitivity settings for each axis of movement, and a SENS button that's supposed to help you straighten up. But it's very expensive in trashed cars.Oh, and there's another disappointing thing about the Airpad. When I first heard about this device last April, I foolishly imagined that it really was an Airpad. Well, it does work in the air but, like the similar Microsoft SideWinder Freestyle Pro, it still has a wire to connect it to the games console. After 20 years, we should be able to do better than this. (JS)The N64 worm has turnedRainbow SixRed Storm Entertainment N64 &#163;39.99 ****Earthworm JimRockstar publishing N64 &#163;39.99 ***It seems the Nintendo 64 - home to some of the finest videogames ever - has been written off and sent to a console retirement home, its only visitors retro enthusiasts and car boot sale attendees.Well, not so fast. The N64 has never been overwhelmed with software but this year's small, but high quality line-up includes A-list sequels to Goldeneye and Zelda as well as the ubiquitous Pokemon.  However, there is also some welcome third-party interest: Rainbow Six and Earthworm Jim 3D.The latter is, unsurprisingly, a 3D-platform title, which sees the wisecracking   invertebrate jumping around his own head. Yes, this is a surreal and amusing escapade which offers a good challenge for the platform-hardened N64 owner.While not nearing the heights of Mario64, Earthworm Jim is still a decent platformer, marred only by an infuriatingly shaky camera.But Rainbow Six is a strikingly original conversion of the PC hit that adds much needed variety to the N64 catalogue. It has enjoyable dollops of stealth and strategy as you lead your crack team of counter-terrorists into battle.Planning is a must, especially as one hit is lethal, and graphically and sonically this is compelling stuff. The co-operative two-player mode is a joy, lifting Rainbow Six high above the deathmatch mediocrity of most First Person affairs.With the hardcore going to Dreamcast and the masses flocking to Playstation, Rainbow 6 is a reminder that Nintendo's console can more than hold its own. But will it be enough?  (GH)
Mobile internet war heats upThe mobile internet war is intensifying at a rapid rate. In the week since Online's cover story on the subject, there has been a steady stream of hardware, network and content announcements.First up, Vodafone, which has beefed up its content by teaming up with the likes of WH Smith, the BBC and the Met Office.Next, its rival Virgin Mobile claims to be the first mobile phone company in the world to offer all its customers WAP (wireless application protocol) browsing. That means they will all be able to look at specially converted web pages and order goods from sites from, among others, the BBC and Virgin Megastore.Virgin is able to offer the service thanks to a unique SIM-card based browser, which means you don't have   to buy a special WAP phone.Virgin claims this is "silicon socialism at its finest" because you won't have to buy an "expensive top-of-the-range phone first" - but that doesn't quite tell the whole story. You'll still spend a lot more on the handset at Virgin because its unsubsidised, line rental-free handsets are all more expensive than their rivals. That means a Nokia 3210 is &#163;29.99 plus contract at Cellnet, but &#163;149.99 at Virgin. A Cellnet WAP phone costs &#163;129.99, plus line rental, at Cellnet. The benefit with Virgin is that you do not have to pay line rental or standing charges, or sign a contract.Meanwhile, electronics giant Motorola is fighting back against market leader Nokia and resurgent Ericsson with a new set of mobile phones, previews of innovative devices and an alliance with handheld computer maker Psion.The most eye-catching gadget shown off to journalists in New York last week was the Timeport Wireless Communicator, a messaging device that is around the same size and weight as a   pack of cards.Despite its small size, the Communicator can send and receive email and messages independently of a mobile phone, discreetly vibrating when a new email or news update arrives. The device, finished in grey, sports a tiny Querty keyboard and LCD screen which, although not up to the standards of Psion or Palm devices, is adequate for short emails. It also features productivity software like an address book and scheduler.When it goes on sale later in the year, the device will run on GPRS (General Packet Radio Services) - a new, much faster mobile standard due to arrive in the UK this summer.The only problem with the addictive little gadget might be the price. At around the &#163;200 mark, it might have been a big stocking-filling hit. But we're   reliably informed they'll cost quite a bit more than that - keeping them in suits rather than schoolbags. It's up against the new Siemens IC35, announced in Cannes on Tuesday.It looks rather like its Motorola rival, with a tiny keyboard and screen, and has similar functions. But it also carries two advantages: it'll be on sale sooner, in late spring, and it'll be cheaper, at around &#163;150. The downside is that the IC35 is less elegant a solution than the   Motorola, needing to be combined with a mobile phone with built-in data interface in order to do email. We wait to see if playgrounds fill with kids grappling with the intricacies of wireless networking.Also unveiled by Motorola were a series of WAP enabled mobile phones. They included the Timeport P7389e - an e-commerce phone into which you can insert a "smart" mircochip-carrying banking card, and buy services and goods from WAP sites. The banking card payment system - using e-cash or credit cards - offers an alternative to paying for your orders through your mobile phone bill. The mobile bill option is a simpler method than fiddling with plastic, but one which, understandably, credit card issuers were less keen on. The e-commerce phone will go on sale this summer.Motorola has also teamed up with handheld computer manufacturer Psion to make a new series of mobile devices. This is only the   latest in a series of alliances forged between leading technology companies as the mobile internet battle heats up.In December, Microsoft and Ericsson formed a joint venture to develop a mobile internet browser for handheld devices.Meanwhile Nokia is working with Palm Computing to develop new wireless internet gadgets.  (NM)Cameras go megaOlympus will become the first digital camera maker to break the three-megapixel barrier when it releases its &#163;800 Camedia C-3030 Zoom model later this month.Its 3.34 million pixel resolution means it will vie for the title of highest resolution compact camera on the market with the Canon PowerShot S20 (featured in Online last week), which is due to arrive   in the UK in March. The C-3030 Zoom doesn't just do stills: it can also act as a video camera as well. It features a QuickTime video mode that enables users to capture up to 190 seconds of video at 160x120 resolution. An internal microphone gives users the option of adding audio to their shot or footage.The C-3030 is also the first Olympus digital    camera to sport a USB interface and serial port connection. Other facilities include a 3x   Zoom lens, infrared mode, six-flash modes and a 32MB SDRAM buffer that allows the unit to shoot 3.5 frames a second. The camera also offers black and white, sepia and blackboard/whiteboard modes and comes with 16MB SmartMedia card.  (AN)Play it againDigital video recorders - TiVo and ReplayTV - are becoming popular in the US because they let you "pause" and "rewind" live TV broadcasts or pick up where you left off.You can't buy them here, yet, but Dixons has launched two powerful Advent PCs that let you do the same thing.The systems work in the same way: by streaming the TV broadcast to a PC hard drive and playing it back.Doing it with a PC means you can also use the computer to play games or audio CDs   and watch movies on DVD.Dixons is starting with two systems with Intel Pentium III processors: the 800MHz Advent 8810 (256MB memory, 40GB hard drive, 19in monitor) at &#163;2,466, and the 600MHz Advent 8737 (128MB memory, 20GB hard drive, 17in monitor) at &#163;1,409.Both systems also have TV cards, DVD-rom drives, Sony CD Rewriters and 65K modems.The software that provides the VCR features is MGI's Pure DIVA (for Digital Interactive Video and Audio).  (JS)
Payphone to playphoneNoughts and crosses (or Tic Tac Toe) and Hangman are about to make a comeback, along with poker, blackjack, and other games. These may not have the graphical power of, say, Soul Calibur on the Sega Dreamcast, but they're designed to be played on mobile phones linked to the net using the Wireless Application Protocol (WAP). The games will be available from Fife-based Digital Bridges, which has just unveiled its multiplayer games portal atwww.wirelessgames.comSharing a PokemonNintendo plans to launch a Transfer Pak that will connect enable a Game Boy Color handheld games console to exchange data with a Nintendo 64. Now, why would anyone want to do that? The answer should become obvious with the launch of Pokemon Stadium for the N64. However, it seems the &#163;9.99 cartridge will also work with Mario Golf and Rare's forthcoming Perfect Dark. The Transfer Pak plugs into the Rumble Pak slot in an N64 control pad, and is expected on March 31.Home golfers take on TigerTiger Woods expects to get thrashed during the PGA Tour by armchair golfers. Electronic Arts and the PGA are promising a "revolution in golf &#91;that&#93; takes computer gaming to a whole new level" with Play Against The Pros. In other words, users who log    on to EA's web site with the forthcoming Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2000 golf game will be able to play while following the live game in one corner of the screen. Details are expected atwww.playagainstthepros.com. Another gaming system that really will link game players with a live sport is being developed in Europe, but won't be announced until next week.The art of big businessElectronic Arts has kept its position as the world's biggest independent producer of video games, thanks to the success of Fifa 2000 in Europe and Asia, and SimCity 300 and Madden NFL2000 in the US. In the important Christmas selling season, EA's sales climbed by 15% to $601m, while profits grew by 28% to $93m. Sales of Sony PlayStation games grew by 31%, while sales of Nintendo 64 games were flat. However, the company knows where it's heading now. It says: "With the expected launch of PlayStation 2 in Japan in March and in the US and Europe in the fall, we continue to focus on developing multiple products for this platform, in order to achieve our top priority in 2000: becoming the leading third party publisher on PlayStation 2."
Fifteen years ago, Avril Dunn's body was found in a shed near her Luton home. Today Duncan Jackson completes the first week of his life sentence for her murder. The passing of the years might have made Jackson believe he had got away with the crime, but time has also been on the side of the forensic scientist. DNA tests, impossible at the time of the murder, last week proved Jackson was the killer.Criminals now need more than a pair of gloves to avoid detection; leaving the smallest trace of almost anything at a crime scene is a disaster. A fleck of dandruff, a single skin cell or a tiny drop of saliva is enough to isolate DNA and link the criminal to the scene. "Science is moving so quickly that we can detect minute traces that they can't avoid leaving," says Detective Inspector Richard Leary, of the West Midlands police.  But detectives have a new headache: information overload. Linking and cross-matching mountains of scientific evidence with crime scenes requires keen minds and razor-sharp memories. Or a computer.Leary has created a digital assistant for detectives Flints: the Forensic Led Intelligence System. It is still being polished by the West Midlands police, but it has already helped to put many of the names in its memory behind bars.  Darren Baker (not his real name), for example, is a serial burglar: branches of Boots were his speciality. The software highlights such patterns. He left blood at the scene of a couple of break-ins; his blood DNA profile was already in police records and gave them his name. The program mapped out his geography; by the time he had reached nearly 20 entries in the database, they predicted his next move and caught Baker red-handed.Several other forces are queuing up to buy the software. "You cut down vastly on research time," says Detective Constable John Hillsmith of the West Midlands intelligence bureau. "I might have a fingerprint hit for a certain crime scene, and some blood from another. Previously, I would have had to research several databases and get several mountains of paper out to discover that these matters were linked."Flints takes much of the guesswork, the legwork and the paperwork out of investigating "high-volume" crimes, like burglary and car theft which have stretched police resources to breaking point. Leary is convinced that Flints will do away with case by case investigations. "That's not what we need to do now - technology and science enable us to investigate whole rafts of cases at the same time." In fact, he says, dealing with forensic information, it's not even worth thinking in terms of cases. "You shift your mindset: it's not 25 or 30 cases, but 25 or 30 strategic lumps of data."Flints is designed to handle case files distilled down to individual pieces of provable information. Scene of crime officers gather raw evidence, and the fingerprints bureau and the forensic science service checks it against its records. Any matches are passed to Flints. From this month it will also hold records of handwriting and footprint evidence.Given all this information, the program points out that Johnny Bloggs - a petty thief - has the same DNA profile or fingerprints as Jimmy Briggs. And Jimmy Briggs is connected with 17 car thefts across the West Midlands. So Johnny Bloggs has his alias blown, and gets picked up for a huge string of offences.Once the computer has shown the link between convicted criminals and unsolved crimes, many of the people involved - even those already behind bars - have held up their hands to the offences.Flints is even more useful in sector policing, used by West Midlands and many other forces. The area is split into 21 operational command units. The problem is that people tend to concentrate on crimes committed in their own sector: two cars could be stolen from different sides of a boundary road and different units would investigate. Three or four units could end up chasing the same man; each unit has had to work without knowing that its neighbours are on the same hunt. Lack of resources, and the abundance of paper-based records don't help.  &#93;  But once Flints records a link between a person and a crime, the information, is sent to the relevant OCU. The next day Flints might link the same person with a crime in a different sector, but the package is sent to the same OCU.This system lets detectives leap several layers of the investigative process: there's no hunting through thousands of fingerprint records in dusty basements, no sitting for half a day on a hunch, trying to "lateral-think" the link between crimes. "The traditional approach is that you throw yourself into a great big cauldron of information and hope you'll find something of interest," says Leary. "This system simply helps us to manage our evidence better."Type your hunch in to Flints and you get immediate results. "By asking the database questions about links, associations and patterns you can build evidence networks," Leary says. Everything in the database is hard fact: evidence and simple associations. Its answers are therefore admissible in court; Leary is looking forward to the day when a courtroom can examine the Flints database for itself.Another possible output is geography: type in a name and you can see the locations of a criminal's handiwork. One such map showed a neat line of industrial burglaries. A glance at the map shows the burglar was simply running up and down the M6 spotting sites to hit.As the links accumulate, an investigating officer at the OCU has to make decisions about what to do. They might make an arrest based on the evidence, or they might bring the suspect in for questioning. Or they might watch for developments. The database doesn't make detectives redundant, Leary insists. "The system is not designed to promote innocence or guilt; it's designed to manage the information. We should use computers for counting, and the human brain for inferential analysis."West Midlands has the Flints database on just a few computers at its headquarters and in one OCU. During the next few months that will expand to more of the OCUs and eventually, Leary hopes, on to the force intranet. Greater Manchester police and the Lancashire force will begin using it in April. The database is Windows-based and easy to pick up, Leary says, but it does require a shift in attitude. Online scientific fact - not the policeman's hunch - is the new basis for action and deduction.The upper ranks are aware of the possible resistance to new methods, but are committed to them. "This technology has major implications for crime detection across the country," says Chris Sims, assistant chief constable with the West Midlands force. "Although these new investigative techniques won't completely replace traditional policing methods, they will have a major impact."But there is a cost. Collecting evidence from car crimes and domestic burglaries uses a lot of man hours, and testing for DNA profiles from blood or skin cells is an expensive business. Evidence gathering capabilities may have soared in the last few years, but budgets have not necessarily followed.Leary is confident that they will. Science and technology are now part of society: it makes sense to harness them for policing, he says. But it won't be long before car thieves and burglars cotton on to the new strategies, and adapt their behaviour. Rival criminals might start sprinkling a stolen car with their enemy's dandruff, or collecting useful blood from a close encounter and casually dropping it into a burgled house. "Whilst we change our methods, so do criminals," Leary admits. "What we need to do is make sure our science and technology stay ahead of the game." But scene of crime officers have already begun to pinpoint the areas of a car in which they find the best, most conclusive evidence (they're not telling, for fear of giving criminals a leg-up). So, Leary says, such practices are unlikely to fool them. Anyway, he adds, the villains are currently unaware of the technology on their trail, and won't know what to do about it when they do find out.In fact, telling the criminals about Flints might be a useful ruse. During a recent crackdown on burglary, the West Midlands force sent letters to known operators in the area under scrutiny. We're tightening things up round here, it said. Don't offend, because you will get caught. It's not hard to imagine a development of this tactic in the era of the electronic policeman. Look out for the automatic email from police headquarters: "We have recorded your fingerprints and DNA at several local burglaries. To avoid unpleasantness, please drop in for questioning. Regards".Single cell that brought killer to a prison cellThe Forensic Science Service's latest DNA test can prove that there might be a total of six people on the planet whose DNA would match the sample found on Avril Dunn's body. One of those people happened to be Duncan Jackson, who was questioned by the police about the murder 15 years ago.At the time of the murder, there wasn't enough evidence to support a charge. Now the FSS needs only a single cell to pinpoint the "one in a billion" who match its DNA. Dried-up blood or semen, a speck of dandruff, or an eyelash left on the victim all contain enough DNA to identify a suspect.Last year, the FSS used the technique to resolve the 1993 murder of Jean Bellis: tiny specks of blood were preserved under the polish on the shoes of her boyfriend, Peter Hastings. The SGM Plus technique enabled the FSS to extract DNA from the blood, and use it to secure Hastings' conviction.Combining these forensic science techniques with electronics could allow scene of crime officers to identify their suspects within minutes. Electronic scanning of fingerprints to check them against computerised archives is being tested.Obtaining a DNA profile involves a series of laboratory techniques. But FSS researchers are developing a hand-held DNA scanner to process samples at the crime scene then use a modem link to check the result against the national DNA database.The FSS will probably have to wait five years for their first hand-held scanner, and genetic photofits are even further into the future.But civil liberties groups are already becoming concerned by the new technologies. Mary Cunneen, a spokesperson for civil rights group Liberty is concerned that although the law allows people to watch their paper fingerprint records being destroyed, there is no way to check that DNA profiles are being removed from the national database when suspects are cleared.
Morocco was a success, and almost a thousand people turned up for the launch of the country's first web portal."When we had our launch event on Friday, it was on a par with any western country: you could feel the impact," says Jessica Kogan, director of global marketing for Orientation.com. "We're pretty excited about what we're doing. It's so big, it's hard to appreciate how many things it's going to bring to the lives of our users...."Kogan, a perky 27-year-old American, has spent nine years in New York, picking up an MBA in corporate identity and marketing and working in television and new media. At the Hill &amp; Knowlton consultancy she worked on high-profile launches, including Boo.com. AtOrientation.com, which she joined last year, her job is to launch web portals. She's tackling Argentina and Egypt next, and thinking about Moldova, the Baltic countries, the Dominican Republic and Panama.Orientation.com has launched six regional and 22 national portals, and Kogan says they want at least 50.This "bottom up" approach to world domination contrasts with the usual approach of the biggest companies: start in the US, by far the biggest market, then expand into the UK and Japan. The UK provides a bridge into Europe, and Japan into Asia, which leaves most of Eastern Europe and Africa way down the list.How long will Bulgaria, Colombia, Sri Lanka, Tanzania and the United Arab Emirates have to wait before America Online and Yahoo! get around to them? All five already have portals on Orientation's network.Rolling out portals in some places is tough for a variety of    reasons. One is language.Orientation India, for example, is available in both Hindi and English, whileOrientation Haitiis in English and Creole.Orientation Moroccowill soon be available in English, French, and Arabic. "We try to be very authentic," says Kogan, "which is part of our long-term positioning."Orientation now operates in 11 languages, which Kogan says has involved creating computer codes for languages that didn't have them, such as Bangla &#91;Bengali&#93;, Creole and Swahili.The network started in Hong Kong in 1994 with The Black Box, a small software company run by an expatriate American, Jay Tindall. Its products included When Disaster Strikes, an educational CD-rom based on Reuters' material, and Beyond the Nine Dragons, an adventure/travel CD-rom about the Mekong River.In 1994, Black Box also produced one of Hong Kong's first websites, and two years later, it launched Orientation: Asia's Web Directory, the first comprehensive regional directory for Asia. This was followed by Rubani: Africa's Web Directory in 1997, and things took off from there.So why are Kogan and Orientation.com now based in the USA? "Finance," she says. "The company moved to New York because it was much easier and much quicker to raise funds there."Cash was important   because the Orientation sites are not designed to make money. Tindall's design was black (from The Black Box and its Black Magic authoring software), and left no space for advertising. The priority was to get market share: income from advertising and e-commerce could come later.However, "our &#91;business&#93; model's not capital intensive. We operate on a franchise or license model", says Kogan. "We partner with local ISPs &#91;internet service providers&#93; and provide them with technology and a co-ordinated identity, but they take on the financial burden." Local news agencies, writers and publishers, also provide local content, though Orientation does have strategic global partners. The most important include the BBC World News Service, Lonely Planet (known for its travel guides), and the United Nations.The UN's Sustainable Development Networking Programme &#91;SDNP&#93; supplied the first internet service to 40 developing nations with the aim of encouraging economic growth. But let's not get too carried away with the idea of empowering the downtrodden masses. Orientation's users are, I suggest, mainly rich tourists, corporate travellers and expatriates."Our main market is students," grins Kogan. "Kids are shockingly sophisticated about the net: they get it right away. Our primary aim now is to outreach to local businesses and corporate travellers, but we're in the coolest - or hottest - travel destinations, and the travel industry loves it."Orientation's long-term view is that its portals will cater for their local markets as net use grows from today's minuscule levels. Kogan argues that there's also a value in providing unbiased information "as best we can, in its   truest form. We haven't got any censors on our site, and I can tell you authoritatively that we never will."After listening to Kogan, I suspect that Orientation.com is a sitting duck. Companies like Yahoo! and America Online will sooner or later   want portals in every country in the world, and the fastest way to get them will be to take over Orientation.com."I'll bet Tim Koogle has you in his sights right now," I say."Koogle?""Koogle! Runs Yahoo!""Oh, I forget his name a   lot," says Kogan, and changes the subject.Becoming a takeover victim might be unfortunate but should make Orientation.com fabulously rich. It's a dilemma that would trouble most of us, perhaps. But not for very long.
Avatar chatInternet relay chat (IRC) became easier when "talking heads" arrived: you could have a face for each member    of the conversation, even if it wasn't their real face. Now Lake Clear Interactive, has produced IRC Toons, a Windows program that can be downloaded free fromwww.irctoons.comIt lets you create characters for use on IRC systems. They can also be animated. Similar "avatars" are being used onWorlds Awayand atVirtuallyDating.com, now being tested in Vancouver in Canada. This virtual playground for singles, will be aimed mainly at North Americans, but anyone can join in it is also free during testing.Wizard funHarry Potter? Who? OK, he's not in the Laetitia Casta class, in web terms, but those hooked on the adventures of JK Rowling's boy wizard there are a few sites worth looking at.Jenna's Unofficial Harry Potter Fan Club siteoffers The Encyclopedia Potterica, and there's another unofficial site,Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, nearby. Potter publishers have official sites in theUSand theUK. The latter includes the opening chapter of Harry Potter And The Chamber of Secrets to get visitors hooked.Doctor on callThere's a rash of health sites on the web andSurgery Door) is one of the more ambitious British examples. It has 60 sections with more than 5,000 core pages, details of all local health services, an on-line pharmacy, and a "resident" doctor: practising GP Dr Mark Porter. There's a lot to dislike: it uses frames, it's too fussy, it's horribly slow, and the shortage of alt-tags (labels) means you have to wait for graphics to download. It will be interesting to see if the similar-soundingNetDoctor- launched this week - does a better job.Another new site,Alive2000, is devoted to "health, fitness and lifestyle". It provides details of more than 800    fitness clubs and centres, and 350 of those are offering free trial workouts to Alive2000 visitors. Unfortunately you have to register to access the website. FinallyAllcuresclaims to be the UK's first full-service online pharmacy. Now you can get a subscription filled or buy medicines from home, or even from your sickbed - and benefit from special offers and a reward points scheme.YepYep is a new "power tool" for Microsoft Internet Explorer 4 and 5 web browsers. The software provides instant chat with other Yep users at the same site at the same time, has a "follow-me" feature so "Yepsters" can lead one another around, and lets users post reminder notes to themselves on the web. Yep keeps personal surfing statistics (time spent online etc) and also feeds information to Yep.com, WebSideStory's portal. Yep.com rates websites by quality and popularity, with frequently bizarre results. The Yep plug-in can be downloaded fromhttp://get.yep.comSales pitchThe German online auction house, Ricardo.de, has just opened a site in the UK atwww.goricardo.co.ukas part of its global expansion plans. What makes Ricardo.de different is that it features 10 hours of live-moderated auctions daily. The UK site isn't very active at the moment, but the company says it will be promoted this month, and ultimately "it aims to become the largest single point of trading in the UK". The first items to be auctioned when the site goes live, it says, include Formula One racing cars and outfits, Lennox Lewis's boxing gloves, a Tiger Moth biplane, and a one-man submarine.Join the crewTake one! Two new websites are now fighting for the affections of Britain's TV and film production workers.Ultimatefilm.comis taking a businesslike approach with an online diary and website-to-mobile phone link, and makes you register.Produxion.comis livelier and looks more like a portal. Its news stories and other features certainly offer more to the casual visitor.CD givingMusic lovers can now make a donation to charity while buying CDs online via the Music Aid website atwww.musicaid.orgThe site links to two British and two American CD shops. The website also provides details of the World Music Foundation, a registered charity founded in London in 1997.Six of the bestVirtual cinemasYahoo! for shortswww.broadcast.comTea-break fillerswww.atomfilms.comMini-movie communitywww.ifilm.netMore like televisionwww.pseudo.comDigital Film Festivalwww.dfilm.comFirst-fun shortswww.thebitscreen.com
Imagine the discussions that must have gone on around the invention of the telephone: a new medium for delivering content directly to households. Indeed, that was exactly how some people did use it. In Budapest you could pick up the telephone and listen to music and news until the first world war.Imagine the ideas that would have been circulating: how magazine and 
newspaper publishers, 
concert promoters and sports organisations would dominate this new channel, because they had the content. It didn't turn out that way because people preferred listening to each other: they preferred "self-generated" content.
Content may be king for broadcast channels, but for interactive channels it is not. This was true for the telephone, and it's just as true for cable modems and Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line (ADSL) internet connections.When it comes to interactive channels-whether the post, telegraph, telephone, fax or internet - it's the technology's ability to facilitate self-generated content that counts. 
This is why two-way technologies have always exhibited such positive network externalities: every time someone bought a fax machine, your own fax machine became more useful because you could generate content for each other.The mismatch between content-based strategies and interactive channels is most visible in interactive television. Give people schooled in the world of broadcast media a high bandwidth interactive link and they create video-on-demand (VoD) services that have never gone anywhere. When Time Warner shut down its pilot interactive TV service - the Full Service Network - in 1997 (at an estimated cost of $100 million) it had only 4,000 customers.Hongkong Telecom launched the first commercial interactive television service, but it is generating only a fraction of hoped for revenues. Singapore's 
network has been even less successful, with only 14,000 subscribers. The fact is that movies and music are just not "killer applications".
People use the internet to access content, but that's not why the internet exploded. Hypertext markup language (HTML) meant that anyone with a modem could not just browse  other peoples' web sites but  could set up their 
own web site.From this came the vigour, the excitement and the hothouse for new 
business models. As bandwidth climbs, people will set up their own TV and radio stations: media stations will be as big as web sites. I'll have my own media station showing footage of the kids to their grandparents. Manchester City Football Club will have its own media station. So will the Guardian. People have an inbuilt need and desire to communicate and the way that current internet technology has limited these communications to web pages and Real Video is simply a stepping stone to the interactive future.When people can use 
networks to create their own content, success is assured. I just used my kids' new iMac to edit camcorder footage of them taken in New Jersey at Halloween. If I could use my cable box to send that footage to relatives, then cable would get more of my wallet share.As it is, my content bill (my cable bill, magazines, video rentals and so on) is less than my connectivity bill - in a household with two phones lines, ISDN (integrated services digital network)  and two mobile phones - and the chances of the cable company getting more money out me are severely limited.If it wasn't for the fact that I'm an inveterate book buyer, then my household content expenditure would be dwarfed by connectivity expenditure. I can't see this trend altering. Kids using high speed interactive 
networks to play games against each other using their Net-ready consoles will generate more revenue than the N+1st TV channel. Sega's Dreamcast 
advertisement says "internet and email on your TV, and it plays games too", a clear indication of the way that sector is developing.In the new economy, the cable company will probably have to give me movies for free to keep me on its system so that it can capture the much greater communications revenues that will otherwise go to the phone company when it knocks on my door with ADSL.Hence the discussions going on as to whether AOL bought Time Warner for their content or their cable network. As Bill Gurley said about internet pricing: someone, somewhere is contemplating "giving away" for free whatever it is you are selling.Content is a big business and it will stay a big business. But it isn't king. Some new economy gurus has gone as far as to say that the value of intellectual property is heading towards nothing and that it should be viewed as an advertisement for relationships, rather than as a business in its own right.
I have to say that I have some sympathy with that apparently extreme view.
 Companies with a strategy that facilitates communication between people, a strategy that facilitates self-generated content, will prosper as the world becomes more interactive and broadcast becomes just one sector of a much richer media world.
Stock markets: once it was top hats, blue buttons and Black Mondays; Eton meets the East End. Now it is denims, "day" traders and dotcoms. Technology is changing how dealing is conducted. A once cosy world faces a revolution. Traditional players are having to fight nimbler rivals.Even relative newcomers in the derivatives markets - not so long ago at the cutting edge of financial market development - are having to bow to change. On London's International Financial Futures and Options Exchange   (LIFFE) traders have hung up their garishly striped jackets and quit the manic, noisy pits of the old trading floor in the City of London for quieter quarters in places such as Islington.The changes are affecting the big financial institutions which trade billions of pounds worth of shares a year and small investors alike. One casualty could be British government revenue in the shape of stamp duty. At 0.5% it is higher in the United Kingdom than in other European financial centres. In the days of defined national markets the relative higher cost of doing business in London was not a crucial factor. But it could become one in the new technology driven environment. Hence this week's initiative from the Stock Exchange to get rid of the tax, with the argument that the government would benefit from higher yields from capital gains tax.Traditionally stock exchanges allowed companies to offer investors their shares. They listed the standards companies had to meet to be granted a quotation. They supervised, making sure everyone played by the rules when shares were traded. Market professionals were intermediaries and in London one group, market makers, put up their own capital to facilitate trading.Technology has changed all that. Trading floors, physical embodiment of the market, have been replaced by networks of computers; investors sit in offices using banks of screens both as a source of information and a mechanism for dealing. Walking into a dealing room now is like entering Dixons and seeing all the television screens showing Teletext.That did not matter as long as the established stock exchanges still controlled the new electronic trading networks. But alternatives aplenty are springing up, rivals such as London's Tradepoint and Easdaq, a Brussels-based exchange aiming to replicate the success of Nasdaq in the United States, listing such companies as Microsoft and Dell.Groups of big investors, investment banks and fund managers are finding new ways to trade. They are backing alternative trading "platforms" where at set times every day an investor who want to unload a block of shares in one company can explore, electronically and anonymously, whether there is another institution prepared to buy.A combination of globalisation, technology and the advent of the euro have made institutions hungry to trade across borders and jurisdictions. City-based investors, including American and Japanese houses for which the Square Mile is their European base, want to trade in the shares of (say) German or French companies as easily as   they can in British ones. The established European exchanges spotted the danger and for the past 18 months have been planning an eight-member alliance.Progress has been slow. Old rivalries die hard. Ownership of the exchanges has proved a problem, too. The London Stock Exchange is demutualising - switching from being    owned by its members to a corporate structure. Frankfurt is pondering changes to allow foreign members a greater say in what is happening. The French bourse has already demutualised and is now planning to list itself. The threat of invasion by Nasdaq (which plans to launch its own European trading scheme later this   year) is another spur. Frankfurt has sought, successfully, to be competitive in attracting hi-tech companies to its Neuer Markt. Paris has just listed its first pure dot com company. London has its techMark.For small investors technology has arrived in the form of the internet. Even those who would never be described as seriously rich are being wooed. Share dealing via the internet is booming. The number of internet share deals hit 371,000 in the last quarter of 1999 - more than double the previous quarter's figure. The Association of Private Client Investment Managers and Stockbrokers calculates there are now more than 100,000 on-line accounts; it expects the internet to account for almost one in five of all execution-only trades by the end of March.The American phenomenon of the "day trader" is arriving here. While most small investors are content to either squirrel away a modest portfolio as a form of saving and others seek to dip in and out of the market from time to time, day traders look to make money through dealing heavily and rapidly every day. In the UK Deal4free.com provides a service which allows those with the money and the nerve to trade share price movements, rather than the shares themselves.As use of the internet grows more effort will be made to promote services to attract yet more retail investors. The number of UK brokers offering online dealing trebled in the past year.Big investors have already discovered competition gives the customer more clout. Small investors may get the same message.&#149; Mark Milner is the Guardian's deputy financial editor
If your children like Boyzone, how do you keep them away from the Boyzone websitewww.boyzone.com? It might not be the sort of thing you want them to see. A child net-surfing should always be accompanied by a responsible adult. The alternative is to install a "filter" or censorship program that can tell the difference between, say, the US White Housewww.whitehouse.govand an invitation to hardcore pornographywww.whitehouse.comYou can download a censorship program from a website. And pornography is only the beginning. There is also violence, criminal activity, hate, persecution, drugs, alcohol, gambling and weaponry -   all can be blocked by a program called WeBlocker. But for some, even that may not be enough. What about sex education, birth control, abortion, and religion? Or animal rights and militant vegetarianism?Censorship programs try to solve these problems by blocking any site that falls foul of a list of key words, to which you can add your own. They may also block access to a list of "bad" sites and allow "good" sites. Again, you should be able to add to either list. US civil liberties groups have attacked these for banning legitimate websites, such as the National Organization for Women (for radical lesbianism, apparently) to kids' sports pages ("12-year-old girls"). Self-regulation using Pics,   Platform for Internet Content Selection, should avoid this. It is built into some browsers including Microsoft's Internet Explorer. In theory, you can set the level of censorship on a 10-point scale. But so few publishers have rated their sites, it's not worth the effort.Alternatively, snoop on your kids and confront them later. Most browsers have snooping facilities built in: just check the "history" section for sites visited. Programs such as Kid Control take that idea a lot further, capturing keystrokes so you can look at them later. Kid Control will even store a snapshot of what's on the screen at intervals of 30 seconds to 15 minutes.Net Nanny 3.1 (Net Nanny Software International, $26.95)http://www.netnanny.com/Looking cuddly got Net Nanny off to a good start, and I was impressed when it objected to some of the file names on my PC's hard disk before I even logged on to the net (it didn't say which). But in use it seemed slow to react, and the lists of banned sites included a lot that didn't work anyway (oh irony - to block porn, you provide a list of porn sites). It also seemed a bit rich to blacklist individual email addresses such as liz@ai.mit.edu (Liz Highleyman from MIT's Artificial Intelligence laboratory) for reasons that were not explained.Rating 3/10WeBlocker (We-WebCorp.com, no cost)www.weblocker.com/This was the easiest to get working adequately. It lets you select an age range from pre-school to 65+ (handy if your kids are 25-34). It also lets you tick boxes for subjects like drugs, alcohol and gambling. WeBlocker is Draconian: it blocked an educational toy site - The Cabaret Mechanical Theatre (http://www.cabaret.co.uk/),in Covent Garden - for gambling; and it censored drug-related parts of a humour magazine. Still, at least it let the kids read Thresh's Firing Squadwww.firingsquad.com/computer gaming site, for those who are seriously into killing virtual people.Rating 6/10KidControl (Tybee Software, $29.95)http://www.kidcontrol.com/By being a snoop program rather than censorware, and by avoiding fancy graphics, KidControl has stayed impressively small (817KB). It can hide in the background and keep a log of daily activities on a PC, and can also capture and store screen-shots at pre-set intervals. This is a powerful feature with sites that don't have obvious web addresses likewww.xxxhardporn.comKids can try to evade a keystroke recording system by, for example, copying texts and web addresses from a file and pasting them into the browser, but the visual evidence is incontrovertible.Rating 6/10Cybersnoop 3.0 (Pearl Software $49.95)http://www.pearlsw.com/This is a powerful program, but it's a hefty download (8,117KB) and not the easiest to set up and use. Cybersnoop keeps an audit trail and activity logs, so you know what people have been up to, and it offers access to three blocking system: RSACi (PICS), SafeSurf and Weburbia. You can put extra websites on an allow list or a block list, and Cybersnoop covers email, chat systems, newsgroups and file transfers, too. The only problem is that you may have to get your kids to show you how to use it . . .Rating 5/10Cyberpatrol 4.0 (The Learning Company $29.95, UKP24.95 UK)http://www.cyberpatrol.com/This Mac and Windows program is designed to lay down the law in today's wild wild web, and you can even badge a deputy to step in when you're away. The range of blockable topics includes sex education, violence, profanity, and "satanic or cult" (Yee har!). However, it costs money to subscribe to the CyberNOT blacklist, which currently has 161,914 entries. Cyberpatrol is always on duty with a time management section that lets you block net access at different times of day, and it can restrict access to 16 different programs, not just the net. Big brother would love it.Rating 6/10America Online (subscription service)http://www.aol.comAOL isn't a blocking program, but there's no doubt that its ease of use and "parental controls" feature have helped its popularity. Each account can have up to five "screen names" so kids can have their own private email, chat and internet access. However, the master account can control access to the various facilities just by clicking in the Parental Controls box. There are pre-sets for Kids Only (under 12), Teen (ages 13-15), Young Adult (ages 16-17), and General Access (ages 18 and older), and they can be fine-tuned. It's like training wheels for the net.Rating 6/10
Writing and selling software has been likened to designing and printing money. Look at Microsoft. Or the $100bn Oracle giant. Or Germany's vast SAP corporation. So why is Europe's second biggest business software firm Baan in trouble?Tomorrow the Dutch group is expected to confirm it lost up to $250m in the fourth quarter of last year, including the costs of a $200m restructuring programme. It warned of the scale of the losses early in January, alongside the news that the chief executive Mary Coleman was quitting. Ten days later chief financial officer James Mooney left, too.Unsurprisingly the share price has bombed and poor results will see shares dive.But Baan is no stranger to testing times. It was founded in 1978 by the Baan brothers, Jan and Paul, who pooled their experiences of technology and the construction industry to provide logistical support for manufacturers. In theory the group should have swept through the 1990s on a roll. After all it found itself in a key position in the fast expanding business-to-business e-commerce market.For a while it looked that way, too. Shareholders rushed in after the company produced a pre-tax profit of &euro;101m on sales of &euro;602m. The stock quickly became a favourite of the Amsterdam exchange - soaring to a peak of &euro;48.65 in spring 1998 - but came tum bling down again on the back of a profits warning in April 1998. Tom Tinsley, a former management consultant, who took over as chairman and chief executive in July 1998 took an axe to the group's costs in a &#163;100m restructuring programme.In October 1998, its shares also fell 30% after a profit warning. That followed allegations of accounting irregularities when Baan booked as income software supplied to related intermediaries before the end customer had paid the bill.Mr Tinsley quit - in an unrelated incident - in summer last year to be replaced by Ms Coleman, an old hand from Silicon Valley. She had joined Baan two years earlier when she sold her company, Aurum, to the group and was seen as someone who could rebuild shareholder confidence. She took over at a difficult period. Worries about the millennium bug had made customers cautious about trying new projects.But some analysts argue that Baan was less able to stand the shock than more powerful rivals like SAP and Oracle and speculation is already swirling. The talk is of a possible takeover bid, though some analysts question whether anyone would want to bother.Not that Baan is throwing in the towel. Pierre Everaert, the supervisory board chairman and acting chief executive, is trying to rebuild the management team despite having no experience of running a software company. He has recruited Rob Ruijter from   Philips Lighting and brought in new executives for worldwide sales and the Americas.The company's main source of revenue - business applications and automating back office work - is a boom area. Nor is it bereft of cash despite the outflow of funds. At the end of the year Baan reported that it had $170m in the bank and can call on another $215m from the US private investment fund, Fletcher International.The Baan brothers - who own 20% of the company - are sitting pretty on a pile worth more than &#163;200m. Revenue from its   licences is on the rise, the group has getting on for 7,000 clients and has important links with the likes of IBM and Microsoft.But after two profits warnings and two restructuring programmes in little more than 18 months Baan needs to rebuild confidence. One big step forward would be the appointment of a new chief executive.Whoever takes the job has the delicate task of steering Baan out of its difficulties, knowing that, if successful, it will alert predators.
Vodafone's bid for Mannesmann, the German telecoms group, broke through the 100bn barrier as investor confidence that it would win its battle sent its shares and those of its prey soaring,  writes David Gow.Nearly half a billion Vodafone shares changed hands, enabling the stock to close 6% up at 359.25p. In Frankfurt Mannesmann shares also closed almost 6% up at &euro;296.30 (&#163;178).The "see-thru" value of Vodafone's bid is &euro;321, not far short of the &euro;350 value placed on the group in its current form by chief executive Klaus Esser.
Patricia Hewitt, the e-commerce minister, will today launch a year-long inquiry into the social and environmental implications of electronic commerce, amid concerns that the internet revolution could lead to social exclusion and new environmental problems.The inquiry will be backed by three government departments and eight large companies, including Sun Microsystems, the Post Office and Unilever.Shanker Trivedi, vice president for Sun Microsystems in the UK and Ireland, said: "The internet is rapidly becoming the most important medium for both interactions and transactions between people and organisations. We must ensure that we are aware of the impact of this new dot.com paradigm on individuals and the environment."Research will be carried out by a number of think-tanks,   co-ordinated by Forum for the Future, the group set up by green campaigners Jonathan Porritt and Sara Parkin and the economist Paul Ekins.James Wilsdon, senior policy adviser at the forum, said new ways of trading promised huge benefits but the project would investigate the downside and recommend how to avoid social and environmental damage."The jury is still out on whether the digital economy will evolve into a powerful   ally of sustainable development, or a spur to greater social exclusion and environmental destruction. There is an urgent need for dialogue between policy-makers and the companies who will be driving the dot.com revolution," he said.Electronic shopping will cut the number of car-based shopping trips and reduce the need for large retail developments. But there could be an overall increase in consumption, more air freight as e-tailing   goes international, and motorists could indulge in more non-retail mileage instead of driving to the shops.The research will assess the balance in a series of complex developments, such as job losses in the traditional services, like retail and banking, offsetting any new jobs in digital publishing and distribution.Similarly the environmental gains from "dematerialising" products such as music and publishing could be lost if physical distribution becomes   less efficient, while outmoded computer equipment poses a waste nightmare.On the social front the research will examine the side-effects of less high street pedestrian traffic if the internet replaces trips to the post office, bank or the benefits office as well as the supermarket. And researchers will investigate the dehumanising potential of many "digital jobs", set against the potential gains for local economies and smaller firms.
Two friends who fought together in one of the most significant corporate battles of the internet age have turned rivals in a new online market.Jim Clark and Jim Barksdale, friends-in-arms at Netscape when the company vied with Microsoft for its share of the internet browser market, are both hoping to make a fortune from different online photo processing companies.Clark, the serial entrepreneur behind Netscape, is backing Shutterfly.com while Barksdale is a key financial force behind Ofoto.com.The companies, which launched their websites on exactly the same day last month, are keen rivals in one of the most competitive fields of e-commerce. IDC, the research group, estimates that the number of digital cameras will increase from about 5m to 22m globally over the next three years. It forecasts that the previously expensive machines used by tech-heads mainly in the US were "on the verge of a mass-market explosion".Such predictions set off an explosion in the number of new firms trying to gain a foothold in the fledgling market. Ron Glaz, senior research analyst at IDC, says there are   about 30 different websites offering some sort of online processing for digital film. In such a crowded market, the involvement of two well-known Silicon Valley businessmen could be worth millions in visibility and credibility.Clark made a name for himself and a fortune by creating three billion-dollar companies in quick succession. Michael Lewis, the zeitgeist chronicler who wrote about Wall Street in the 80s, chose Clark as the essence of Silicon Valley in the 90s in The New New Thing, his latest book.In a recent interview on national television in the US, Clark said: "Film is going by the wayside, you know, in three years, four years, five years, there will be no film in any camera."His bullish comments not only added credence to his new venture, they also encouraged Jim Barksdale.Ofoto approached Barksdale days before its December 13 launch and won $16m in funding. "In a way, I felt like Clark kind of validated the market," Barksdale said.James Joaquin, co-founder and chief executive of Ofoto, is quick to recognise the value of   this new rivalry. "The fact that these very good friends are both investing in this space signals that this is a very interesting market," he says. The rivalry between these two companies and others such as photoaccess.com and snapfish.com has intensified in recent weeks.Prices for print-quality pictures from digital film have fallen and there are several offers such as Ofoto's pledge to transform traditional pictures into digital ones to be sent via email or downloaded from the web for free.Both Clark and Barksdale have downplayed any suggestion that the corporate competition is echoed in any personal rivalry.Lewis's book does point to some tension between the two during Netscape's protracted battle with Microsoft. But the two have collaborated on other ventures since leaving Netscape and both have recently made large donations to their former alma maters.Clark has refused to comment on the rivalry between the two friends but Barksdale has been relatively sanguine about it. When asked why he has not backed the same company as Clark in the digital camera war, he said simply: "He didn't ask me."
America Online chairman Steve Case was yesterday forced to defend spending billions of dollars on entertainment and media group Time Warner following criticism that his "dash for content" was an expensive mistake.Mr Case, who last month clinched a $140bn takeover of Time Warner, came under fire from the head of the world's leading new media research unit - the computer labs at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who claimed that content would form only a small part of the services needed on the web.Mr Case, who wants to depose Bill Gates as king of the internet by amassing films and other entertainment, educational material, news and other information sources, was dismissed by professor Michael Dertouzos, who likened the Time Warner deal to a marriage of exhibitionists and voyeurs.Attacking the hype surrounding the mega-merger, he suggested the future of the net was much closer to the Microsoft boss's vision of better software and finding alternatives to the PC."My belief is the content, very important though it is, is only a small part of where it &#91;the Internet&#93; is heading," said   Prof Dertouzos. Sharing a platform with Mr Case and Mr Gates at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, to discuss winning strategies to the internet race, the professor suggested Mr Case's aim of using the merger to gain access to new forms of content, including films and magazines owned by the media giant to consumers' PCs, was misconceived."If you take all the content, all the TV stations, all the movies ever made, all the trade journals and add it up it comes to less than 5% of the industrial economy. If, on the other hand, you take office work, what used to be called white collar work, that's 60% of the   United States economy and 50% across the industrialised world."The potential to find new ways of processing that information work was much greater than simply delivering new content to PCs and could amount to $4 trillion a year within the next 15 years.Comparing the AOL-Time Warner deal to a merger between Hollywood exhibitionists and internet voyeurs, Prof Dertouzos said the real challenge posed by technology was how to make existing machines easier to use and to find new ways of digging out complex information in the human brain.Noting that web searches often produce masses of meaningless information, he said: "It's time we started accessing information by meaning rather than by syntax."Clearly riled by Prof Dertouzos's comments, Mr Case accused him of deliberately trying to be controversial and insisted that his goal was to encourage greater use of the internet.On average people spent an hour a day online but the other 23 watching television, reading etc. Merging with Time Warner, whose brands include Fortune magazine, Time and Warner Brothers, would allow AOL to paint on a much broader canvas.Speaking afterwards at a press conference, Mr Case said: "Ten years ago we had 100,000 customers and nobody, including my parents, knew what I was doing for a living."Now everyone understands that the internet is important but the next 10 years are going to be the interesting ones when it goes from being a curiosity to an everyday part of people's lives."While acknowledging the potential for new devices to deliver information and to build bridges between them and the PC, he predicted that the PC would remain the dominant form of internet access.
The music industry used to refer to music as 'product', implying something tangible,   but the time is near when music will be called 'content' - intangible, and entirely apt for something that exists only as digital code on the Internet.In two quick steps, the two most risk-averse and bureaucratic of the big five music goliaths - Warner and EMI - have captured the high ground in dictating how a future Internet-based music business will look and work. They have also struck what may be a death blow to traditional music retailing  and to the free-wheeling, copyright-lacking model of digital music distribution presented by the likes ofMP3.com.Last week Richard Branson's Virgin chain acknowledged as much when it threatened to shut up shop unless record companies cut retailers in on the action. At the other end of the spectrum, MP3.com, the San Diego-based company that distributes music by largely unknown artists, was slapped with a copyright lawsuit from the Recording Industry Association of   America that could shut it down if potential financial damages of $6.75 billion are awarded against it.What a digital music business will look like is still anyone's guess. An AOL-Time-Warner-EMI colossus appears to be leaning towards the 'pay-for-play' approach, under which consumers pay a subsciption and listen to music on demand. In theory, the EMI and Time-Warner catalogue (2 million songs from the Beatles to Missy Elliott) should ensure public acceptance of the music computer file as an alternative to the CD. The potential payoff is enormous. Last year, sales of online music amounted to roughly $1 million, according to Boston-basedForrester Research. They are expected to rise to as much as $4bn by 2003.But all this depends not only on the acceptance of common standards of transmission, copyright protection and storage, but on the adoption of 'broadband' pipes and the marriage of the hi-fi and the computer, all elements that, in theory again, the muscle of AOL can help facilitate.But the future is still hard to predict, as companies such as AOL, Microsoft, Real Networks and Sony all vie to have their technologies to settle the format and piracy problems. The conflict is well illustrated by the divisions between Sony's music arm and its electronic side. Sony's Internet music player, the Memory Stick Walkman, has been fiercely opposed by its own music labels until piracy issues are resolved.The AOL-TW-EMI deals have been welcomed by the RIAA, which represents the major labels, as having the potential to lead the industry out of this thicket. 'What this brings together is a tremendous wealth of music assets and a group of people who have mastered the art of making things simple on the Internet,' said Hilary Rosen, president of the lobbying group.But what the Time-Warner-EMI deal will mean to music itself is unclear. Many fear the ongoing consolidation of the music industry will suffocate diversity. In other words - Beastie Boys and Whitney Houston or nothing.
Here is a story to make megacorp executives choke on their muesli: eToys.com, a huge online retailer of children's toys based in Santa Monica, California, has been comprehensively humiliated by a massive civil disobedience campaign orchestrated by a community of Internet activists.Late last year, eToys made the mistake of suing a group of Swiss multimedia artists and pranksters who run a site namedwww.etoy.com,which has been up since 1995 and is a byword on the Net for devising ingenious ways to pull corporate tails.Although the eToy artists registered their domain name, they did not register eToy as a trademark in the US. Why should they - they weren't doing business. But this was exactly the loophole   that the eToys lawyers needed.They claimed trademark infringement in court and argued that the eToys trademark and brand name were being tarnished by the 'unlawful' activities of the artists, whose Web projects sometimes include profanity and nudity.The company won a temporary injunction by citing the 'danger' to children who might mistakenly log on to thewww.etoy.comsite by failing to type an 's' in the Web address. eToys also claimed it could lose customers because of such confusion.The judge accepted this preposterous argument, and suddenlywww.etoy.comdisappeared from the Net because Internic, the domain-registration authority, pulled the plug on it.The artists also lost their email connections. In the real world that would probably have been that. But the idea that a gaggle of corporate lawyers and a Californian judge could infringe the freedom of expression of artists in another continent struck a raw nerve across the Net.In no time at all eToys discovered what it is like to be on the receiving end of an online   community's rage. Apart from the deluge of hostile emails, the company's servers were subjected to sustained 'denial-of-service' attacks, which are bad news for an e-commerce site at any time, but potentially disastrous over Christmas season. eToys claims that it lost only 2 per cent of its capacity as a result, but industry gossip puts the degradation considerably higher.Whatever the extent of the damage, eToys eventually saw the light. The company has announced that it has agreed to drop its suit against eToys and to pay the group up to $40,000 in legal fees and expenses. The case is already being hailed as 'the Brent Spar of Cyberspace', which may be a bit over the top. But eToys' bruising experience suggests that corporations   should think twice before taking on the Net.OLD HABITS die hard, though. The next group in line to learn this expensive lesson are the corporations seeking to control DVD (Digital Video Disc) technology. If you have a PC or Macintosh computer with an appropriate drive, you can play DVD movies on it. But if you run the Linux operating system   you cannot, because the appropriate decryption software does not exist. Accordingly, various programmers have - legally - worked out a programme (DeCSS) which decrypts DVDs and makes it possible to view them on Linux systems.Last Tuesday morning, Norwegian police, egged on by lawyers for US movie studios, arrested one of them - 16-year-old Jon Johansen, who had posted the DeCSS code on his father's website.The lad was held and questioned for seven hours before being released. The whole thing stems from a clause inserted (after lobbying by the movie moguls) into the US 1999 Digital Millennium Copyright Act, which some lawyers expect to be ruled unconstitutional.What it looks like to the rest of us is yet another example of US corporations trying to intimidate the Net community. Will these people never learn?john.naughton@observer.co.ukFor links and background material see:www.briefhistory.com/footnotes/
If you are one of the 1.35m people who bought an iMac in the past three months, congratulations, you've just joined a select group. You are also using an industry pariah. iMacs - all Macs for that matter - are second-class citizens when it comes to financial services on the internet.The latest example of this exclusion is the internet bank smile.co.uk - the first in the UK to offer a current account. Two months after its launch Smile is still inaccessible to Mac users because of a software problem. Surf to the bank's secure web site on your Mac and all you'll get is a blank page. Smile customer services say they "are aware   of the problem and are working to fix it". But a little investigation reveals the glitch is just the tip of an iceberg.Smile's owner, The Co-op Bank, puts the blame on flaws in the Mac version of Java - an internet operating system specifically designed to run on any computer. It says it trusts only Java to ensure online banking is kept hidden from prying eyes."We are unapologetically Java-based because only Java offers the   level of security we need," says Co-op spokesman David Smith. He says the bank knew Mac users would have a problem using the service before the system's launch, though the fact was conveniently ignored during the Smile advertising campaign.Smith claims Macs are at fault for the incompatibility. "&#91;The service&#93; is aimed at people with up-to-date equipment who are very comfortable with the internet," says Smith. "It's the Macs that need to be sorted out."But Mac experts say it is not a Mac problem at all but a Smile problem. "Banks that claim &#91;that Macs have&#93; a security issue are talking nonsense," says Alex Sobosley, editor of MacFormat. Java was intended to create a single internet-wide standard for programming on the web. But Microsoft did not stick to the Java design standard   when it wrote its version for Windows machines.Consequently Smile programmers were left with two different systems to cater for and Mac users have drawn the short straw. Meanwhile Windows users are enjoying Smile's 4.33% interest rate and free &#163;500 overdraft in their droves. Some Mac users regard it as a form of computer apartheid.Smile is not the only example of Mac marginalisation. Two of the latest home-finance and accounting packages, Money 2000 from Microsoft and Intuit's Quicken, are not available to Mac users. The packages are designed to help you keep track of your daily credits and debits, connect to your bank account via the internet, gather mortgage information, manage investments, savings and bills, and even create a will.Money 2000 is written exclusively for Windows machines, while the Mac version of Quicken is not for sale to European customers - though it retails for $49.95 in the US. And forget about buying Quicken online.    Intuit will supply the Mac package only to customers in Canada and the US. If you're a European with a Mac, you're simply not getting it. The reason for this bizarre situation eludes Intuit's UK support staff, who don't even   know the Mac version exists.The main reason for this anti-Mac attitude is the financial cost of developing software for the proportionally small number of Mac owners - 1.6m in the UK, or one-in-10 of all personal computers. But some blame a deeper anti-Mac conspiracy.Industry insiders accuse    software publishers of trying to eliminate Mac versions of software to cut costs. John Cormack, the creator of the popular computer game Quake, recently urged Mac owners not to buy the Windows version of the game and run it on a Mac using a Windows emulator, but rather to wait until the Mac   version was released. Both versions were ready at the same time, but the Windows version went on sale first. Cormack said that if the publishers saw that the Mac version was not selling (because Mac users had bought the Windows version) they would pull the plug on any further Mac development. The same applies to the financial software industry.A case in point is Market Maker - an online share-trading package supplied by the CMC group in Hertfordshire. No Mac version is available because most of the company's existing customers   use Windows PCs. Market Maker is the first system to give share prices in real-time and to perform transactions in seconds. Typical online share trading systems are email based, transactions can take anything from 30 seconds to 30 minutes, while new share prices are published every 10 to 20 minutes.If you're not a budding Gordon Gekko, the email system might suit you just fine, but there is another advantage in Market Maker. CMC is pioneering a dealing service called Contracts for Difference, which effectively allows you to trade five times   as many shares as you pay for. With as little as &#163;5,000 you could become a day-trader from your home. The service, launched on January 10, has already gathered hundreds of customers - all Windows users. But Andrew Palmer, CMC marketing manager, believes the Mac market is simply too small to be worth the development costs.Like the Quake players, one solution is to fork out for an emulator and fool the opposition into thinking you're using a Windows PC. But you'd be losing out on all fronts. There's the speed issue -   programs run faster if they are written for the specific hardware. Worse still, not all software is compatible with the emulator and technical problems are a nightmare to sort out.Despite all this, I believe my own iMac was worth the cash, if only to stick two fingers up at the Gates empire. The Mac has survived similar crises before, and there is other software out there, albeit non-standard. But there are greater forces than my iMac at play, and if industry attitudes don't change soon we privileged few may soon become quirky has-beens.Apple MacintoshSmile
This week's merger of Britain's EMI and America's Time Warner brings together into one giant music company stars as diverse as Madonna and Martine McCutcheon. And while Madonna is unlikely to be working with Martine, the staff of the two companies will have little choice but to get on - and the evidence of past mergers is that they often come unstuck on the shop floor.The chief reason why they fail is mishandling of staff in the wake of a deal, and a clash of cultures between the companies."Even the best strategic logic will only work if it can be implemented," says Dr Richard Schoenberg, senior lecturer in international business strategy at London's Imperial College Business School. "And as the employees are closely involved in the implementation and have to live with any uncertainty, they need to be consulted every step of the way."Part of the problem is that cultural differences between companies are notoriously difficult to measure. The number-crunchers dissect the balance sheets of potential acquisitions with ruthless efficiency, but base their analysis of the "softer" issues on little more than assumptions, because they have little real scientific data to go on.The results are there for all to see. "We have gone from one new management fad to the next in the past 15 years," says Mike Fiszer, senior specialist in organisational development and change at the Irish Management Institute. "We've had restructuring and business process re-engineering, but neither has been particularly effective in smoothing the period of transition after a takeover. The reason is that more often than not companies have these solutions foisted upon them with little understanding of the values that underpin these organisations."Five years ago, Mr Fiszer, and another business psychologist, Ros McCarthy, set out to construct a tool that could measure the core values of an organisation and could accurately predict potential areas of conflict and compatibility between two companies. The Organisation Character Audit profiled 20 different values, such as focus on performance, diligence and integrity, and constructed a form of group psychometrics that would allow them to map these values on a scale from 1 to 100.The beauty of the method was that it could expose any myths a company might hold about itself, and that by superimposing the maps of the two organisations on top of one another, hotspots became readily apparent. Moreover, it provided the structure by which an acquiring company could best manage the transition by pinpointing the best type of people to put in charge to achieve the acquisition objectives.As with many new ideas, the Organisation Character Audit has proved a step too far for many commercial accountants. However, Mr Fiszer's work with a finance company and a retail leisure group was so successful that SmithKline Beecham asked him to develop a cultural assessments tool for use in strategic initiatives. Mr Fiszer is unwilling to discuss his commercial work, but the failure of SKB's first attempted merger with Glaxo Wellcome in 1998 due to the incompatibility of management styles proves his point.What Mr Fiszer and other leading management specialists are agreed on is that it is the quality of the leadership that will often determine the success or failure of a takeover. The key to this is communication. Ernst &amp; Young and the Warwick Business School's joint report into acquisition management found a depressing catalogue of despair amongst staff."We were left in a complete vacuum," said   one senior employee. "All we did was carry on. I had a futile role as managing director." Another reported that: "I was extremely frustrated and mystified that I never had any discussion with any board member about the future of the company. There was no discussion as to potential synergy."Mr Fiszer believes that the new breed of manager needs emotional as well as business intelligence. "He or she needs the credibility to get performance in times of uncertainty," he says. "They must be able to communicate the vision and involve staff in it. There must also be an acceptance that many acquisitions can and will take years to integrate and that goals may shift along the way."You don't have to look far to see what happens when companies get it wrong. The 1996 merger between Royal Insurance and Sun Alliance is universally acknowledged to have underperformed. "They fudged the leadership issue by maintaining a dual chief executive role between two men who were obviously in competition," says Trevor May, an insurance analyst at Salomon Smith Barney."It took the chairman 18 months to bite the bullet and sack them both. Moreover their declared cost-saving targets of &#163;300m were not aggressive enough for the market. So they created unnecessary tensions and uncertainties by dragging out the unpleasant decisions. They have now announced a further &#163;100m of cost-savings."Mergers almost always involve redundancies, and there is no easy way for companies to sweeten the pill. Creating uncertainty merely makes a bad situation worse. The able people find another job, while the remainder often feel angry and insecure about the way they have been treated and lose commitment to the company's future. Let's hope the alarm bells are ringing at AOL, Time Warner and EMI.AOLTime Warner
The board of Vivendi, the French media and utilities group, meets in Paris today amid speculation that it could seal an alliance with Mannesmann, rescuing the German telecoms group from the clutches of Vodafone.With 10 days to the closing date of Vodafone's &#163;95bn hostile bid for Mannesmann, the French group is said to be considering offering a stake to its German partner in C&#233;g&amp;~233;tel, the French mobile phones firm.Mannesmann owns 15% of C&#233;g&#233;tel, in which Vivendi owns 44%, and is rumoured to be ready to sell Orange, the mobile phone operator it bought for &#163;20bn last autumn, to the French group.The reawakening of interest in Vivendi as a potential white knight for Mannesmann prompted a dismissive response from Vodafone - itself cited in the French media as a potential Vivendi partner.Mannesmann yesterday also sought to underline its   independent future by unveiling a deal with the French software group Cap Gemini to bundle together their e-commerce and internet-related activities.The deal involves a series of joint ventures, including one to promote "web-hosting" which is said to promise sales in the business-to-business segment worth &#163;625m a year within four years.Mannesmann said it remained confident of winning majority backing for   its defence against Vodafone's bid, claiming almost total backing among German retail investors, who own 10% of its equity.Hutchison-Whampoa, the Hong Kong group which sold it Orange, has pledged its 10% stake and the German group expects substantial support from German and other Euroland institutions, which command 30%.It concedes that Vodafone is ahead among US and UK investors.
Misys, the UK's biggest software company, has announced half-year pre-tax profits which slumped 18% to &#163;48.3m.The firm, which develops software for the financial services and healthcare industries, said the decision by banks and stockbroking houses to defer software purchases until the beginning of 2000, saw revenue decline from &#163;287.9m to &#163;280.6m in the six months to November 30.However, Misys chairman Kevin Lomax, said orders in the current six months had rebounded and "we are very confident of returning to our long-term growth rates of about 20%.Stockbroker Dresdner Kleinwort Benson reined in its full year profit forecasts from &#163;139m to &#163;131m but Misys shares improved 81p to 872p on the news of an improving order book. In Misys banking and securities division, orders for the initial licensing of software were &#163;38m in the half-year compared with &#163;32m in the same previous period.Misys may consider floating off its internet arm, which includes Screentrade and other personal financial services, to realise its value.Mr Lomax said the market was valuing pure internet players higher than those companies which incorparated the internet as a business division. He did not indicate a time frame for any such demerger. Misys intends to invest &#163;50m in the next three years developing its internet services.Howard Evans, finance director, said Misys growth would be focused on e-commerce principally in the financial services market. Banks and other financial services houses are expected to spend up to $9bn by 2002 on software for e-commerce activities globally. The interim dividend was increased 15% to 1.39p a share.
The rapid rise of e-commerce has led to predictions of the downfall of smaller shops like local bookstores and independent record outlets.  But will it wipe out the whole high street as well?The Royal Insititution of   Chartered Surveyors seemed to be saying that last week, to publicise a slab of futurological research entitled, 2020: Visions Of the Future. In fact it doesn't quite say that.David Fitzpatrick, RICS Research Foundation director, admits that this particular hook was dreamt up by their PR advisers. What the report does say is that a large portion of the high street will come under pressure - both from the net and from social trends. It will need to adapt   to survive.Mike Godliman, director of the retail researchers Verdict, agrees. Customers want to save time or have fun. "There has been a general trend towards people wanting either quality or value," he says. "That's why middle   market retailers like   Sainsburys and British Home Stores have had problems."  People can, in theory,   minimise 'chore' shopping at the supermarket and instead try out retail entertainment destinations, like the funky new coffee shop.People in the UK clearly want to supermarket shop online, according to market leader Tesco, which today took the number one slot in a survey of the fastest growing internet companies in the world by Novell.  Last week Tesco annouced that, due to consumer demand, it would treble the number of stores offering online shopping. It's been   trialing its Tesco Direct   service at 100 stores, and plans to offer it at 300 outlets by the end of the year.To survive, the average high street needs to respond , says Fitzpatrick. It needs to ditch the standardised BHS style of shopping for more niche experiences, for shops that change and reinvent themselves and their markets regularly. Net shopping may even be catered for on the high street, Fitzpatrick suggests, through businesses that offer access to net shopping and serve as pick up points for deliveries.There could even be a   resurgence in neighbourhood shops, Verdict's Mike   Godliman states. "The   neighbourhood is beginning to bounce back, because   people want convenience. They want to supplement their main shop with individual items, which they can do at the corner shop. Neighbourhood shops could also be a marvellous place to pick up your net purchases. No one's tried that yet. But it could help people who buy online but are out at work all day."Similar ideas are explored by William Mitchell, Dean of the MIT school of Architecture and Planning, in his new book E-Topia (published by MIT Press), which looks at the general impact of   networks on urban centres. Mitchell suggests that the growth in teleworking could drive a neighbourhood renaissance. Bored teleworkers will be looking to take a break from the screen at home, but won't have time to go far. So there is an   opportunity for shops that target them.Over the years, different infrastructures like water supplies and electricity grids have been imposed on cities and changed them, Mitchell argues. He sees the arrival of digital telecommunications as continuing the general 'fragmentation and   recombination' that takes place when new infra-structures are deployed.  "You see contradictory things happening at once. In retailing, you get decentralisation of the browsing and purchasing functions.   Those functions used to be within a store and now   fragment and recombine   with domestic space."At the same time, to achieve economies of scale, the distribution functions tend to centralise. So you get big warehouses. You get neither rampant centralisation nor rampant decentralisation but a complicated process of fragmentation and   recombination."Mitchell doesn't believe that high streets and malls will die. However, he does suggest that, thanks to the efficiencies of e-commerce, bookshops may not be around in the same way in 30 years time. Those with a historical aura - for example, City Lights, in San Francisco, the honorary home of the Beats - will survive.British researchers are less willing to predict the death of certain retail sectors. Professor Leigh Sparks, author of the RICS Research   Foundation's report on the future of shopping, suggests that - despite people   generally assuming clothes shops will survive but that travel agents and financial services will be vulnerable to online competition - you can't generalise."The shops that will suffer are those that are providing functional transactions. If they're not providing anything more than that, why should I bother going to them when I can do that functional transaction every bit as well online or at a remote   location?" In other words, if a travel agent offers a different sort of experience - better information, a nice place to browse - it may survive.  So what about music? This week EMI was absorbed by Time Warner-AOL. Analysts suggested that the company was looking to prepare itself for a future in which music is delivered to consumers via the net. Sparks agrees that much music will be delivered digitally in the future, but argues that many consumers may not prefer to own music in that way. "They may prefer to go to a store, listen to a range of things, have a coffee, maybe download 10 tracks from the EMI back catalogue onto a specially made CD."Discussion about the effects of net shopping tends to focus on the high street. Might the big out-of-town superstores also come under pressure as more people shop online for groceries and other bulk purchases? Verdict's Mike Godliman believes that out of town shopping for DIY goods, electricals and furniture, will take a while to take off online, but that the threat of the net may force these real world stores to get better. "If you think about electrical stores, they're not that enjoyable an environment to be in, for most people. But they could be brilliant. There are so many fantastic little goodies in there to play with. I think the net will act as a   catalyst for electrical stores to start thinking more creatively about their space."The general conclusion seems to be that the rise of net shopping could actually be an opportunity for creative high street retailers. It's a   potentially positive message, though one that ignores a few key problems, according to the RICS's David Fitzpatrick.   "We're seeing a clear divide between those who have and those who have not. Those who have access to the   technology will be able to decide when they want to buy something and how they want to buy it, and then spend time with fairly high cost   differentiation in the high street. So they'll go to the nice coffee shops or the nice clothes shops and they'll become more interested in retail-tainment."Those who don't have access may find themselves shut out of all sorts of retail spaces and given access to a limited range of low quality goods, he continues. So   creative government   intervention may be needed to solve these problems of access, he concludes.   It's certainly easy to see how high streets might dodge death by reinventing themselves as "differentiated themed experiences". It's rather harder to see how they might be really reborn as genuine community centres.For more information about the RICS Research   Foundation and 2020: Visions of the Future, go towww.rics-foundation.org.  Verdict's website is athttp://www.verdict.co.uk.   William Mitchell's website ishttp://loohooloo.mit.edu/people/mitchell.html.
The first full year of e-commerce has been a remarkable experience, the real significance of which we will have to leave to future historians. It has seen the eruption of young entrepreneurial talent in Britain (led by London with the corporate dating agency First Tuesday as main midwife) which will have consequences far beyond the initial explosion of web start-up companies.   Suddenly, talented twenty-somethings who, in the old order of things, would have had to wait 30 years for comparable ascendancy, are running whole companies, and doing it with a hierarchy destroying directness - with email as their lingua franca. Corporate structures will never be the same again.In the first year it has proved a licence to lose money for all but the Old Economy manufacturers of the infrastructure (like Cisco) and the transporters of the goods bought online. Over 90% of internet companies lost money last year, although the valuations of a number of companies on the stock markets soared to levels that made some of the South Sea Bubble companies look like penny stocks.   There is little doubt that in the vast business-to-business market (80% of all net activity) large profits will be made as the world's corporations make cost savings of up to 30% by offloading all their relationships with suppliers onto the web. But in the e-commerce area (business to consumer), the evidence of the first year is not encouraging.So far there have been two main economic effects: a massive redistribution of   capital wealth to web investors - which could implode as fast as it exploded. And, second, what could prove to be a more durable redistribution of income towards consumers. They are benefiting from the way   selling over the internet has triggered an orgy of price   cutting (often selling below cost) in the scramble to gain market share and also from the claimed benefits of the net in removing the middle person from transactions.However, the evidence so far is that the benefits of removing the intermediary are often eroded by the need to spend huge sums on marketing, brand building and distribution). Industry   estimates suggest that up to 55% of start-up funds are spent on marketing.   Supermarkets are taking a big risk in supposing that the new paradigm of selling through the internet (then taking on the expensive job of delivering themselves) is superior to the present situation where consumers drive to shops and load and deliver their own goods at their own expense.  Tesco, which now claims to be the world's biggest online supermarket, also claims to be profitable. This may be the temporary consequence of being able to charge a   premium for delivery. As more supermarkets join the fray, free delivery is bound to be offered by competitors.In the United States, where consumers are unwilling to pay extra for home delivery, traditional supermarkets have shown little interest in online selling.   Will online selling ever prove profitable? Yes, but only after a bloodbath has reduced the number of  players. Even then profits may never be huge because of the nature of the web's "clickocracy". If you don't like the price of a fridge or a book, you may have to spend an hour tramping around shops. But on the web you can just click to a competitor to get a lower price (or get a robot to do it).   Consider Hotmail.     Microsoft can't charge for it because too many free alternatives like Yahoo are only a click away. Yet Microsoft can get a 40% return on sales for its products like Word and Excel software. Why? Because it has over 90% of the market and can keep prices up. As long as monopolies can be kept off the web, the consumer will be king.Of course, every dot.com  wants to establish a brand that punters will go to first. That will happen for some of them, although brand loyalty on the web is not as strong as in the real world. But it won't necessarily be the first movers who win the war.It would be rash to try to pick any long term winners from the first year of startups in the UK. But from what we can see now, the most likely to make it big in the long run is Lastminute.com which sells a wide range of goods and   services like hotel and   holidays for last minute   purchasers. This is not just because it was first on the block but because it is an unusual kind of company.Whereas most web start-ups sell other company's products, Lastminute specialises in selling distressed or vanishing inventory - like hotel room vacancies which won't exist a day later if unused. It is creating genuine new demand for products that would otherwise be consigned to oblivion. It could be viewed as a virtual manufacturer.Otherwise the typical net company, in the Wall Street Journal's words, can "sell stuff it doesn't make, from stores it doesn't own, and ship it in trucks driven by people working for someone else". That's true. But hang on, it's only a year since e-commerce went mainstream in the UK. We haven't even started yet. By the end of this year almost half the population will have access to the web. Once it reaches critical mass we will see things we can only dream about now.
The amount of IT business going through parliament has rocketed, but the number of computer-literate parliamentarians to handle it has decreased. The last general election was expected to bring in vast quantities of young wired MPs into the Commons. Some energetic new ones, among them Derek Wyatt, (profiled in Working It Out, Online, Jan 20) did appear, mostly on the Labour side. But the new arrivals hardly replaced the many Tory nerds, who lost their seats.
The expulsion of the hereditaries from the House of Lords, has, paradoxically, removed a lot of IT expertise. It has cut the number of peers on the parliamentary IT committee (Pitcom) from 33 to 21. This will reduce the quality of Lords debates on IT matters, which had been better informed than the Commons. (Check Hansards internet pages,www.parliament.the-stationery-office.co.uk/pa/ld/ldhome.html)It will also blunt scrutiny at committee stage of the Electronic Communications Bill, Freedom of Information Bill and Interception of Communications Act, and all the other Bills with an IT content passing through parliament this session.
Peers are also useful for setting up associate parliamentary groups, where industry can meet parliamentarians of both houses, without brown envelopes changing hands. Hereditaries have been more adept at doing this than lifers, or even MPs. They have more time on their hands, while MPs are off nursing careers and constituencies.Lord Renwick, an unassuming hereditary, did just this. Six years ago, he founded Eurim (European Informatics Markets), which intercepts IT-oriented directives on their way from Brussels, and makes sure that they are acceptable to UK plc, before they are set in concrete. Harry Renwick did not persuade enough of his Tory peers to join the magic 92 survivors. So, IT loses a parliamentary champion.
Viscount (Jan) Chelmsford, another hereditary IT champion, who died in December, added to the list of parliamentary groups with one for Transport Telematics. So, with Eurim, Derek Wyatts internet group, and the 18 year old Pitcom, the IT industry is not badly endowed with pressure groups at Westminster and Brussels.
Jan Chelmsford, a hereditary, was a model for what can and should be done by peers, senators or whatever you might call them in a reformed house. He took up his seat in 1991, on retiring from a career in Lloyds. His last job had been to set up the London Insurance Market Network. He then hit Westminster as an e-commerce evangelist, years before the internet took hold.He became director or president of various e-commerce associations and standards bodies, not to provide a title on their letter-heads, but to shake them up. This he did, with the aim of getting the UK to speak about e-commerce with one voice. He also heightened their profile at Westminster to an extent that astounded some of them. The result was that they could help to extricate the government from its floundering about the Electronic Communications Bill. Jan was doing another essential lordly task: bringing the IT business view to the ivory-tower dwellers in Westminster and Whitehall.All this he did in under eight years. How could someone, over retirement age, whose main qualification was that his great grandfather won the Zulu War of 1869, have such an effect on the technology of the moment?Unless you believe that blue blood is best, the answer has to be pure chance. It was also pure chance that the very big swings in the last election brought in three or four IT professionals to the Commons, with wafer-thin majorities, who are proving the most effective IT-MPs.Will the Wakeham report improve the chances of getting a more IT-friendly House of Lords? I doubt it. The elected element will throw up political hacks who will push last years technology. I would favour a system where professions elect their own peers, but I cannot see that being accepted.As IT is essential to our industrial survival, perhaps at least 10% of new peers should be IT-competent, just as Wakeham says 30% have to be women. I dont see that happening either.I suspect, whatever system is chosen, we will continue to rely on pure chance. In the meantime, we will regret the loss of the hereditaries, the most effective of IT peers.
One of Silicon Valley's most secretive companies, Transmeta, has finally unveiled a chip that could revolutionise computer design. The Intel-compatible Crusoe, named after Daniel Defoe's castaway, uses innovative techniques to reduce power consumption. The chip can run more than 20 operating systems, including Microsoft Windows, and should give portable machines much better battery life.  Crusoe consumes less power because Transmeta has moved many of its operations off the silicon into software. This degrades performance, but in the mobile applications for which Crusoe has been designed, longer battery life may be more useful.However, it must be admitted that the worldwide coverage of Transmeta's launch had little to do with its patented approach to emulation software, called "code-morphing", or its use of "very long instruction word" (VLIW) chip design. Most of it was attracted by the presence of Linus Torvalds, whose Linux software kernel is used in the increasingly popular GNU/Linux clone of the Unix operating system.  So far, Transmeta has announced two Crusoe chips. The TM3120 is aimed at portables and internet appliances costing about $500 to $999, while the faster TM5400 is aimed at $1,200 to $2,500 notebook PCs running Windows. The chips are being made by IBM, and prices range from $65 for a 333MHz TM3120 to $329 for a 700MHz TM5400.Crusoe uses Transmeta's impressive LongRun power-management technology, which is similar to Intel's SpeedStep. The processor can run more slowly to consume less power. Transmeta's chips use only 1 watt where rivals may use 4-10 watts, and there's a special "deep sleep" mode that uses only 20 milliwatts.  Transmeta has also put a lot of work into developing Linux - the Torvalds connection - for use in "webpads" and internet appliances. No operating system dominates this nascent market, but there are numerous competitors. These include Be's BeOS, GEOS, QNX and Microsoft's Windows CE.The brains behind Transmeta is chief executive officer David Ditzel, who founded it in Santa Clara, California, in 1995. He started the Risc (reduced instruction set computer) chip industry in 1980, when he co-wrote a paper, The Case For Risc, with David Patterson, a computer science professor at the university of California at Berkeley.Later he joined Sun Microsystems and helped to create its Sparc line of Risc chips. Computer processors were getting bigger and more complicated as new instructions were added to provide the capabilities programmers wanted. Patterson and Ditzel suggested using fewer but more regular instructions: this would make it possible to make smaller, cheaper, faster processors. Programmers would not go insane writing software for these Risc chips because the code would be written by special compilers. These programs would convert the software writers' complex commands into low-level Risc code.The Risc idea was hugely successful: Hewlett-Packard, Acorn, Mips, IBM, Intel, Motorola and many others adopted it. Mips chips power millions of games consoles, including the Sony PlayStation. The Acorn Risc Machine became the Arm processor, used in many successful products. The multi-chip IBM Risc architecture developed into the PowerPC used in Apple's machines. However, over the past few years, Risc chips have become larger and some are more complicated than the complex chips they were meant to replace.Today's complex chips have also adopted Risc techniques. For example, Pentium chips convert x86 instructions - eg commands from Windows applications - into low-level instructions that can be executed quickly by a Risc core.  This is where Crusoe comes in. Why not do that conversion in software, outside the chip?Transmeta's code-morphing has several advantages. The chip itself can be made smaller and cheaper. The software part is more flexible. It can have bugs fixed on the fly, and could even be changed to provide compatibility with different processors, not just the Pentium/x86. The Crusoe software also optimises its "translations" (recompilations) for the Crusoe hardware and stores the results for reuse. This compensates for the initial loss of performance.Crusoe uses "very long instruction word" (VLIW) processing, which has often been seen as the next big advance after Risc. VLIW was pioneered by Multiflow (www.multiflow.com), which was founded in 1985, and successfully emulated a Sparc chip in 1989. Hewlett-Packard and Intel used VLIW ideas in the next-generation Intel chip, Itanium (code-named Merced).The idea behind Risc was to have a steady stream of simple, regular (fixed length) instructions for the chip to process. The idea behind VLIW was to package a number of these simple instructions together and send them to the chip in one operation. In Transmeta"s case, the software delivers four 32-bit operations in each 128-bit "word". (Transmeta calls the operations "atoms" and the words "molecules" but the idea is common to VLIW processing.)Getting it to work efficiently isn't easy. If the software has only one instruction for the chip to process, it has to pad the "word" out with three "no-ops", so the result  will be slow. If it can send three or four instructions every time, it should be really fast. At the moment, we don't know which will apply.Getting Crusoe chips to work at all has been an achievement, but now they have to be used to create products people are willing to pay for. That's the hard bit.Transmeta:www.transmeta.com.    ZD TV did a live webcast of the Transmeta press conference. You can watch it atwww.zdnet.com.
WHSmith has grabbed access to more than one million potential new book-buying customers with a BT internet deal.WHSmith Online, which the stationery chain claims is already Britain's biggest web bookseller, will become BT's principal books retailer on all BT-controlled internet services including btclick.com, BT Internet and email address service talk21.Details of the new internet   deal came as Smith's revealed a solid set of Christmas trading figures.Many analysts had expected the chain to issue a profit warning based on lacklustre seasonal sales but, in the event, the group reported total sales up 2.5% in the 19 weeks to January 8 and like-for-like sales, which exclude sales gained as a result of extra shopfloor space, up 1.5%.Book sales climbed 7% and the company said there was also "a strong performance in computer and telephone   peripherals." The music, video and computer game business was much tougher, leaving margins down 0.2% overall.Internet orders in the year to date were up 85% and underlying sales at Hodder Headline, the publisher acquired by WHSmith last May, were ahead by 8%.Chief executive Richard Handover said: "This was a tough Christmas trading period and we have performed well in difficult conditions".He said he was pleased with results in books, magazines   and stationery but there was "a lot of scope to improve" in music and video.The shares, which stood at 492p on January 4, closed up just p at 345p. Less than 12 months ago they were changing hands at 775p.WHSmith aims to grab 30% of the British online book market within three years and plans to offer buyers the opportunity to have their purchases delivered to their home or work, or to their nearest WHSmith branch, if that is more convenient.As part of its expansion plan the retailer last year bought the Hodder Headline publisher whose authors include Stephen King and Manchester United football manager Sir Alex Ferguson.Analysts said that there was relief in the City that the company had produced such good results. "There were expectations that they would do a deal with somebody to give them access to more eyeballs," said Credit Suisse First Boston's stores analyst, Tony Shiret.
How long have you been using computers?Since about 1982. I started with a Sinclair ZX81 which allowed me to do very primitive word processing. Next was an Amstrad CPC464 - the first model with an integral tape drive. It was actually not a bad little machine. I wrote a couple of books on it. Then I graduated to PC.What are you running now?Because I have everything networked, defunct machines just become another node on the network. We have a couple of 400Mhz Pentium IIs - I work in two locations in my house, I have a study and a business office. I also have a couple of older Pentium machines because it costs very little to put a card in and add them to the network. I call one of them "the dog". Anything I'm a little uncertain of is tried out on "the dog" first when it's cut away from the network.Could you envisage working without a computer again?Good heavens no! I used to word-process even in the days of my old Imperial 58 typewriter. I used lots of different coloured typing paper and literally cut and pasted. By the time I came to type what might be the fourth or fifth draft, the manuscript was a very strange looking thing about two inches thick and full of paper glued together.Does it make writing easier?Yes. I was chairman of the Society of Authors for a while and there is a divide, even now, among authors, between those that won't touch a keyboard and those that, like me, almost go the other way with technology. I think the advantage is that everything is so mutable. You can spend your whole life changing sentences if you want. But, because editing is so easy, you can also write on auto-pilot. Sometimes it's a good thing to sit there pounding out the stuff straight from your subconscious but the important thing is that ,next day, you have to sit down and very carefully go through what you did. So you can use the word processor in several ways and adapt it to your way of working.Are we over-impressed by technology?I think newspapers are. It seems general internet use is actually taking off and that's because people are now finding useful things to do with it. Yet the idea that the "e-world" was just around the corner has been peddled for about five or six years now. It wasn't the hype that did this, it's just that a critical mass has been reached. But it's not whether or not you can use a computer, it's whether your granny can use one that things then become interesting.Any favourite places on the net?I think surfing the web is a dull thing. It's not proper surfing unless you're going to run into a 12 foot wall of coral. It's another one of those stupid terms we have to make sitting on your arse all evening sound exciting: "We're going to boot up the computer." No you're not, you're just going to switch it on. It's like getting excited about using a telephone! It's worth remembering, when we talk about Mr Gates's brave new world, that there are still people on the planet who have yet to make their first phone call - and they're probably in the majority.
Pearson yesterday raised &#163;250m to accelerate its investment in its internet-based businesses, including its relaunched flagship ft.com.The media group, which publishes the Financial Times and the Economist, is planning a swath of new web services including an online education network and a push into the Spanish and Portuguese-speaking markets.Pearson's finance director, John Makinson, said the cash would fund investments for up to two years focusing on the   relaunch of ft.com, the company's online version of the FT, and other financial information sites during 2000.Ft.com will relaunch in the next few weeks and has been showing compound growth of 20% a month in site visits. In January, the website had some 1.2m unique users compared to 200,000 a year ago."The message is that we are stepping up our rate of investment because it is beginning to pay off. We are emboldened particularly by the success of ft.com," Mr Makinson said.Pearson was not about to ape its arch rival, the Wall Street Journal, by introducing   online subscription fees. "The secret is to build and generate traffic to support substantial advertising and e-commerce revenues," he said."The $64,000 question is making money, but if you believe the internet will change the way people access financial information and that the FT brand has resonance, then we should be successful."The funds were raised by placing 11.5m shares at &#163;22 each. Pearson shares were marked down 62p at &#163;22.60 in response to the new issue but analysts backed the strategy, describing the fall as only a short term reaction.Marjorie Scardino, Pearson's chief executive, said: "Content and brands count more than ever in this world."It's not whether we are in old or new media, or online or offline that matters; it's how we use our content across all channels that will really count."Pearson, which is one of the leading educational publishers in the world, hopes to exploit its market position via the launch of a network of educational websites linking students, parents and teachers.Mr Makinson said Pearson was seeking a distribution partner to invest in the business and had already begun talks.
American companies have stolen a lead over their European counterparts in the race for cyberspace because US business is unencumbered by rigid labour laws, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Alan Greenspan said last night.Using unusually critical language at a hearing of the senate banking committee, Mr Greenspan said technology was not being applied as fully in Europe as in the United States, in part because labour laws made it hard for firms to sack workers and take advantage of technology-driven productivity gains."They end up with double-digit unemployment... and they also end up with a level of capital stock which is much lower than ours," Mr Greenspan said. "The technologies which now exist in the United States... are not being applied to the extent that they are in the United States, and therefore the growth and the underlying improvement   is less than it is in the United States."But Mr Greenspan also said attitudes were changing. "They are beginning to sense that that is wrong and you are beginning to see countervailing forces emerging in Europe which will gradually bring down a lot of the dirigiste attitudes on the part of a number of government officials in Europe," he said.The Fed chairman cited the European Union's efforts to drag its businesses into the internet age. "The European Union is going to increasingly seek a type of technology that we have in the United States and that process almost invariably will open up markets."The words will be music to the ears of Erkki Liikanen, EU commissioner for industry and information society, who is launching a modernising agenda for e-commerce in Europe. He says he wants Europe to learn from the experience of the US, where internet-related companies today account for 2.3m direct jobs - not count ing the considerable indirect employment. The legislation should be completed but the end of the year.The US government has long urged European countries to make labour laws more flexible, but the Fed has usually been somewhat more restrained. Mr Greenspan also raised concerns about the recent increase in margin debt or borrowing to buy shares in US markets.Charles Schumer, a Democrat senator from New York, said margin debt had increased 62% in the past year - the fastest pace in 16 years - and margin debt rose 13.2% in November and 10.8% in December."It is certainly the case that the numbers that you cite - especially for November and December - have caught our attention. They have moved up at a pace which has created a good deal of evaluation on our part," Mr Greenspan said. There had been "considerable discussions" among financial regulators in Washington on the topic. He said the Fed was "obviously" worried about this.
Rolling Stones guitarist Ronnie Wood and his manager, the entertainment lawyer Nick Cowan, have received a takeover approach for their American internet dance music company from cash-shell Chandra.Aim-listed Chandra has approached Seattle-based Groovetech to accept an all-share, reverse takeover to form the first part of a wider stock market listed music, entertainment and media group. A spokesman for Chandra refused to comment, however.Mr Cowan holds the majority of shares in Groovetech, which he set up in 1995 while working   on the west coast of the United States and now plans to expand into Britain. Mr Wood owns a stake of around 4%. The duo are also original shareholders in Sports Internet Group, owner of the Planetfootball websites.Groovetech webcasts live sets from cult DJs such as   Paul Oakenfold and aims to become a global on-line community for underground music. It owns two web-driven radio stations in Seattle and San Francisco.British director Tintin Chambers was a major figure in the Acid House rave culture of the 1980s.    Chandra is chaired by    Nigel Drummond, brother of Virtual Internet chief executive Jason Drummond. Earlier this month it confirmed it was in advanced talks on its first acquisition after a rise in its share price. Last night's closing price of 251.5p values the company at &#163;13m.
Spot the link between these two bits of news from Monday morning: music giant EMI announces it is to merge with Time Warner - itself recently merged with internet company AOL. Meanwhile, mobile phone operator BT Cellnet unveils its latest mobile phone range.Are these two different industries, travelling separate paths? Or two industries racing along roads which are set to cross very soon? The smart money - and the scale of these deals shows there's plenty about - is on those paths meeting.The mobile phone is a massive hit. In little more than a decade it has changed from a yuppy toy to a vital piece of kit for 40% of Britons, joining purses, wallets and keys as the thing you don't leave home without.But we have yet to see the mobile revolution really take a grip. Only five years from now, there will be a billion mobile phones in the world, making desktop computing seem a minority sport."We're at the beginning of the internet revolution," says Brian Greasley, general manager of BT Cellnet's mobile internet service provider, Genie Internet. He means that mobile phones, rather than the computers we've been using so far, are going to deliver that revolution."If you look at the internet today, it's based on a PC platform of 350m PCs worldwide. If you roll that figure forward to 2003, there will be around 400-500m PCs. Currently there's about 300m mobile phones, and by 2003 there will be one billion mobile phones. Every one of them will have an internet browser built in."Greasley is referring, at least in part, to new "internet phones". They send information using a new standard called Wireless Application Protocol (WAP).He is not even counting other devices, like Psion and Palm organisers, which already use mobile phones for communication and themselves have web access.   They, and new generations of hybrid mobiles which combine organiser and phone, will mean we may still find our handsets much more useful than our computers. They'll not just be for talking - we'll use them to send messages, find out the latest news and football scores, access information and use services on the internet.And, here's the crunch, the amount of "bandwidth" these phones have - the amount of information they can receive or send in a second - will eclipse today's conventional telephone line connections to the net. This summer, you could have the equivalent of an expensive ISDN line to your mobile phone. In the   near future, you will quite easily have the kind of power that will make receiving high quality sound and video on the move quite straightforward and rewarding, reshaping the way we get information and entertainment. And that's why content companies like EMI and Time Warner want to get friendly with internet giants like AOL.Before Monday's deal, EMI was already teaming up to provide entertainment over mobiles, including a deal with Genie Internet. Greasley says: "With EMI, we'll be providing gossip lines and interviews, all based around SMS (short messaging) and audio. So, if you're a Spice Girls fan, you'll get an SMS message telling   you Geri Halliwell has rejoined the band, and then if you hit the send button you can hear the interview and clips on the phone."It's not difficult to see where this kind of service will go when the more powerful networks and phones go on sale in the months and years to come. "In the longer term," says Greasley, "music will be delivered down the line, and there's quite a few integrated MP3 players being worked on by manufacturers. We believe the phone will become the next Walkman, and the Walkman was the biggest selling consumer electronics product ever."A lot of these   services will be available sooner than you might expect. It is very cheap, compared to the costs of setting up a full web site, for a retailer or content provider to create a WAP site, so many big names have moved quickly to be ready from the off. Ian Germer, product strategy executive at Vodafone, says "Things will be happening soon".Quite how soon is a matter of some debate. Mobile operators expected working handsets to be on sale by last Christmas, but delivery dates slipped because of problems with the WAP software. It has been an inglorious start for a breakthrough technology: very few phones were around until last week. But Germer does not see the problems holding the technology back in the long run."We see that by next Christmas a significant proportion of handset sales will be WAP compatible. Once they've got over the hurdle, it'll be built into as many new handsets as possible - it'll become cheaper to do it that way."All eyes might be on WAP, but the concept of mobile data is nothing new. Companies with large, travelling workforces have long made use of it, while organisers and laptops computers can log on over mobile networks using PC card add-ons and specially equipped mobiles. But nobody is calling WAP mobile data because it is "a real turn-  off", says Germer. "WAP will take off because people don't realise this is mobile data; they'll be told they can get their share prices, or their bank balance, or do their shopping through their mobile, and think 'oh great.' It'll take off because there are things there that people want to do."Germer predicts that, as with the net, interaction between users and the applications they create themselves to put the technology to use will be the ones which catch most users' imaginations."The skill here is to get it to the point where the customers invent their own applications, and just get on with them. With WAP, you can see the time when children in the playground will be knocking up their own little WAP sites and showing them to their   friends - there will be little playground competitions for the best, or rudest, WAP site around."People will develop little applications to help plumbers, or flower delivery companies. This is where electronic commerce is going to take off."Packaging and targeting the early WAP services will be important in making the technology popular, says Ben Wood of Lucent, a company which installs mobile networks and advises their operators. "If you get people used to the habit of looking at their phones and interacting, you'll be in a better position when GPRS (General Packet Radio Service - a new, more powerful kind of mobile network) and WAP come   along. "There's no way you can just turn on a broadband network and say 'OK, we're open for business - come and start using it to gamble, playing games, using it to read news and information'.'The hunt is also on for "killer apps" - the applications which are so useful to an individual they feel a new mobile phone is a must have. "There's a lot of talk about the killer application," says Wood, "but the idea should be for every user to have one. If you go round a room you will find everyone's different - for me, since I like horse racing, it might be gambling that's my killer application. For you it might be news, for someone else the formula one latest. If you can deliver that - the most compelling information for them - it will be very important." And,   he adds, the service has to be absolutely right, first time. Get any part of the complicated equation - breadth of content, partner shops and content providers, ease of use - and users may be put off."Bill shock" - where users experiment with new information services and get landed with a huge bill - is also a big no no.The young are also very important, he says. "There was some research recently which said 300,000 kids got mobiles for Christmas in the UK. The mobile phone was the most requested present for 12-15 year olds. That's staggering,' says Wood."They will have an insatiable desire for information. When they get one of these new phones, these are the people who'll be jumping onto it. For   years, everyone's been banging on at WAP conferences about providing share prices and email. Those services will have their place, but they're not the applications for people like me."Schoolchildren might be at home with all this mobile pop news, but what about the rest of us? Will we not be a bit intimidated by the arrival of so much computing power in devices which, until now, we've just talked through? Genie Internet's Brian Greasley reckons that any problems will be overcome."I'd point to two things. One is SMS: up until last year people didn't know what SMS was. We as a network in December '98 did 6m messages a month. In January this year we did 62m messages. We have half a million people on Genie doing all this stuff, and we're growing at about 3000 a day."Look to the emerging mobile sectors like youth. Youth don't even know what technology is. Nobody has told my son how to work his GameBoy. He just uses it. It's exactly the same in this market. The early Nintendo and PlayStation market is now around 30, so there is a tremendous amount of people who are ready for this."Where mobiles have been, are now, and will be soonThe first generation mobile phones were almost as unloved as their flashy yuppy owners: vast kits, more often installed in cars than carried.They were expensive to buy, prohibitively expensive to run, and because they were based on an analogue system (rather like two-way radio) reception faded in and out. The handsets became smaller and could be fitted into a large pocket, and tariffs fell to more reasonable levels, but they were still out of the reach of most people.In the early 90s, along came the second generation of phone - lighter and smaller digital handsets, with sim cards (credit-card size or smaller bits of plastic, with embedded microchips). Better call quality and much more attractive pricing from the networks, Vodafone and Cellnet, set us on the road to mass popularity.Prepaid mobiles revolutionised the business: all four networks offer them alongside their contract offerings. Virgin mobile doesn't offer its own network (it resells One2One services) but broadens the choices and offers intriguing possibilities should Virgin's other arms - including music and travel - be   brought into play on its mobile service.Over the next few months we'll see generation two and-a-half: phones equipped with slightly bigger screens and Wireless Application Protocol (WAP) software. This mobile internet will offer cut down, highly practical versions of e-commerce and information websites, converted to run on the slower speeds and smaller screens of mobile phones.That limitation will not be around for long. This summer Britain gets its first high bandwidth mobile service, courtesy of BT Cellnet, which will offer capacity similar to an ISDN land line. Higher capacity will allow music and video to be downloaded quickly and at reasonably high quality, making multimedia entertainment via your mobile a practicality. Expect combined MP3 players and phones by Christmas.Earlier this month, Britain's Radiocommunications Agency closed the auction for the third generation of mobiles, run on a system called UMTS.This system will give immensely fast connections to mobiles - up to two megabytes of data a second. That kind of power could complete the mobile revolution.
In disorderMy experience of internet shopping at Christmas was that a number of retailers were not prepared for the demand.I received good and timely service fromDiscounttoysandToyzone, but an order with HMV on December 7 was not completed until January 11. Only one item of four ordered was received before Christmas. Amazon was generally satisfactory, although it too shipped one item after Christmas.Ray Smithrsmith_telesto@hotmail.comUnquotableIt ought to be true, as Danny Sullivan says (Weblife January 20) that putting something in quotes, like "Manchester United" returns "only pages with that exact phrase on them, in that exact order".But on a significant number of search engines it isn't: the quotes are treated as if they weren't there.Try searching them for my name "conrad cork" in quotes and you get flooded with stuff about some Irish County. Try searching for the title of my book Harmony With Lego Bricks and Google, for example, says that "with" is very common, and so was ignored.Conrad CorkTadley Ewing PublicationsLeicesterBitter fruitYour feature on Moonfruit (January 20) raises the question of who paid whom for the article. The journalist, Justin Hunt, works for Moonfruit, and the article is clearly a puff piece full of throwaway quotes and inaccuracies.He says Moonfruit is "one of the first start-ups to go boldy into cyberspace". Had they launched a year ago, they would have been one of the first, but you can't say you're one of the first just because   the internet is still in fast growth stage.The feature reads largely like an apology for a launch that might not happen. Justin talks about the site launching "today" but says it may not happen. And surely there was a more inspirational pull quote than "people will either love it or they won't"!Steve MastersOnline DirectorBlueCarrotsIRC inquiryI have atesco.netaccount, and am unable to connect to any useful internet relay chat server apart from the BT IRC server but the response times are terrible on the rare occasions I am able to connect.Does anyone know of a quick and reliable IRC server accessible from a free ISP?Elliot Hermanelliot.herman@tesco.netBad booksI bought the Oxford English Dictionary on CD-rom, when it first came out in 1992.  Last year, the company announced the software had been redesigned to improve efficiency, and I thought it might be worth upgrading.After two emails I got a reply, saying the price of an upgrade was &#163;58.75; to qualify as an existing user, I had to send a photocopy of the old manual. I sent off the photocopy with a cheque for &#163;58.75. I got a reply, saying the price was actually &#163;59.99, so I sent another cheque for &#163;1.24.I received the software with a packing document saying that the price was actually &#163;60, and demanding payment of the balance of one penny.I have just received a new invoice, repeating the demand for payment of one penny. This letter cost 19 pence alone to send.Julian Daveyjulian.davey@dial.pipex.comInner circleI logged into www.circle.co.uk after reading that this was the site for information and advice from the likes of Anna Raeburn. It was nothing to do with that, more for buildings/furniture/IT info.Lynne Chamberlainlchambe@rnib-redhill.ac.uk&#149;  The address should bewww.icircle.co.uk
Toy warA legal battle between the world's most successful toy e-tailer and seven members of an award-winning digital art collective has broken out over the domain name etoy.com. An appeal is underway in the Los Angeles Superior Court after a ruling that the arts group had infringed the toy company's trademark.eToysclaimed that material posted on to the artists' site was of a subversive nature and used "profane language" which was damaging the company's brand and was potentially dangerous to minors who might stumble upon the site by mistake.However, the Swiss-based group, etoy, registered the domain name in October 1995, two years before the California-based toy company began trading. Since then it has established a reputation as one of the pioneers of internet-based art. The company has offered to buy out the group and an offer of $400,000 is believed to have been turned down.A number of cyber-liberties groups have leapt to the artists' defence, claiming that the ruling sets a dangerous precedent that could encourage companies to "hijack" financially desirable domain names. A number of web sites based around the ones atwww.toywar.comare raising support for a fight in the US courts. Although the artists have been forced to take their site down, a mirror is athttp://146.228.204.72:8080Le TubeWhat a shame London Underground has yet to deliver its proposed online journey planner for its site atwww.londontransport.co.uk/underground. The company has admitted that 70% of the site's visitors have asked for the service. London Underground is further shamed by the discovery that the website of the Paris Metro hosts an online journey planner - for London and in English.A point-and-click map of the London Underground can be found athttp://metro.ratp.fr:10001/bin/statmap/english/united-kingdom/london. Most of the major stations come with additional local information (Swiss Cottage is   linked to the Freud Museum, Camden Town to the Jazz Caf&eacute;). Average journey times are also given. The French site also contains online journey planners for 60 cities world wide - from Tyneside to Buenos Aires - all in English.Sounds goodThe rush to dominate the online music scene heated up last week with the news that current leadersEMusic.comhad boughtCductive.com, one of the web's notable independents and a particular favourite of listeners to underground music styles.The acquisition means that a wider range of downloadable music will be available   from a single site. Cductive was an early pioneer of online music sales and has become renowned for its huge catalogue of underground music, particularly dance. It represents more than 350 different labels and has a number of unsigned acts. EMusic, already the internet's leading seller of downloadable music, now hopes that the range of music from the most commercial to the most obscure will be enough to see off a wealth of rivals that now includes Warner EMI.Shooting the bannersDuring the recent Guardian debate over the commercialisation of the net,ntk.net'seditor Danny O'Brien complained that banner advertising was now taking longer to download than the actual content of most web pages. Users with local-dial up connections find this particularly frustrating, so finding a way to circumvent the bandwidth-eating ads could prove incredibly popular.While rumours of the existence of software that can avoid banner advertising has been around for as long as the ads themselves, a workable system has yet to materialise. Enterwww.calltheshots.com, a site that claims to offer users the power to select different parts of web pages, avoid parts they don't want including the ads and to even mix and match different websites on the same page.Although available only as a beta version, calltheshots seems to work fairly smoothly - and could prove useful if applied to a handful of favourite sites. The interface does take some time to set up, and only works on a page-by-page basis. But it is possible to mix theBBC news tickerwith share prices fromft.com. And the admen are taking it all very seriously. Last week theInternet Advertising Bureausaid it was investigating the site and are looking at the possibility of legal action.Just give me the faxFax4freeis a new web-based service that does exactly what it says on the tin - sends faxes around the world for free. There is no special software to download and no extra charge to users who wish to "broadcast" a large number of faxes to different destinations. But it will not work if your computer won't accept cookies.Paying in kindnessFeeding the world's hungry by shopping for clothes or CDs seems to be one of those too-good-to-be-fair things that the web keeps coming up with. But that is exactly what the people behindiPledge.net- an online charity mall - claim they are able to do. Each time users buy online, iPledge forwards a percentage of the sales price as a charitable contribution to the non-profit organisation of the users choice. Retail groups already signed up include Amazon.co.uk and online music store Blackstar, while the list of charities includes Ash and the British Liver Foundation.Note that the incredibly popularHungersite.com, which pioneered this kind of thing, recently upped its cups of free food from one to three, per person, per day.Buzzing with ideasAbuzz.comis a new site that attempts to create a series of online micro-communities or "circles" built around various topics like technology or travel. Members are invited to pool information - a bit like the Guardian's very own Notes and Queries - by posting questions to one another. With average response times running at around six hours the system can quickly prove addictive - even if the responses often throw up as many questions as they attempted to answer.Browsing with the bad guysAny site that claims to be "the internet's one stop emporium of world domination, evil-doing, and tampering with things beyond man's ken," needs bookmarking. The site atwww.villains.co.ukincludes features on how Y2K went wrong for the criminal fraternity and how to build an atom bomb then cheekily links itself to the websites of MI5 and the CIA.  Laugh? I nearly blew the bloody doors off.Beach lifeDanny "Trainspotting" Boyle's eagerly-anticipated film The Beach hits British shores on February 11. Adapted from Alex Garland's novel and starring Leonardo di Caprio, the Beach tells a story of a land without email or the web and phones with those lovely musical rings. Check out the trailer and nifty website atwww.virgin.net/thebeachSix of the bestFood sitesSimply food (*and wine)www.simplyfood.comBigger than Deliawww.epicurious.comIf meat is murderwww.vegsource.comCream of the cropwww.gourmet-world.co.ukFit for WonkaChocolate.scream.orgYour 21st century dietwww.cyberdiet.com
Setting up a website needn't cost the earth. I wanted an internet presence for my new company, which provides content for sites, but there was no way I could afford professional help. So I decided to do it myself - and I discovered that it is much easier than it looks.Firstly, I needed a website-authoring program, ideally one easy to use and free. Various companies offer shareware software, but these often require knowledge of HTML, the net's background language.I discovered I could download a free 30-day trial of Dreamweaver fromMacromedia. This comes with a useful series of tutorials that taught me the basics.Dreamweaver is simple, but powerful. The first step is to create a folder on your hard drive for the site to live in. It is important that every file, from pages to images, is kept in this folder. Then, using Dreamweaver, go to the site menu and create a new site, with this new folder as its location.I knew that I wanted to use frames to divide the page so that graphics did not have to reload every time visitors looked at new pages. Dreamweaver provided a tutorial on frames, a number of templates and a palette to personalise them.After creating the frames, it was just a matter of typing in the information and applying styles to change text colours and size, not much different from PowerPoint or any word processor. Dreamweaver provided various templates for this, too.It is important to save the master page, the one with the frames in it, as index.html because that is what web browsers, such as Microsoft Explorer, look for when they first visit a site.I had a logo already and, was able to open it up and alter the resolution and resave   it in the right format. For the net, you should save photos, logos and so on as gif files; resolution should be 72dpi and the size should be exactly that which it will be used at. The smaller the better is a good rule.Next, I had to get the logo on to the page; again, this was easy enough.I wanted to use one of the frames as an index with links to other information. Even this was simple. First, create the pages you will link to and put text in them, even if it is not the real content. In the index frame, type the titles. Select each one individually and use the properties palette to turn it into a link - it's just a matter of typing in the name of the file or clicking on the folder icon to select it from the menu.The only trick here is the target - which frame you want the new information to appear in. My main information frame is called main.html, so in a field called target I just typed main.html. Before I realised this, I got really frustrated because I couldn't work out why the new information kept appearing in the index frame.Later, I was able to update this to be a graphic with the pages listed on it. I used the image-mapping tool to create the links.I also wanted to create a "contact me" page, but didn't want to have to bother with complicated scripts that let   people type straight into the internet browser page. So I cheated. I typed in my name, highlighted the text then selected E-mail Link on the objects menu. A popup window turned it into a link that opens your email program and enters the right address.After much trial and error, I had the site in a shape where it wouldn't discredit the company. Then I had to get it on the net. I needed an address for it, and that means getting a domain name.It was important to us that it was a name for which we could have not only the .co.uk address, but also .com, which is better for the rest of the world. I used a site calledregister.comto buycontentgenerators.comandcontentgenerators.co.uk. The .com cost $70 for two years and the .co.uk &#163;49 for two years. These are standard costs.After looking around, I decided to use a company calledIcom.comto host the site. It is based in the United States, but on the web, this makes no difference. It's also cheap - a set up fee of $49 then just $8.95 a month for 45MB of space (trust me, more than you will ever need for a small business), unlimited traffic, email accounts and a domain name. Your internet service provider can give you web space, but if it is free or cheap it will be under their umbrella domain name, such as   www.mybusiness.online.net, which can look unprofessional.Next you have to get your site on to the internet. Again, this was relatively simple using Dreamweaver. Icom sent me an email with all the details I needed to enter into Dreamweaver's site set up window and then I clicked "connect" and moved the entire sites into the public_html folder using the built in FTP (file transfer protocol) software. Many other programs, such as Fetch or Anarchie, are available to download for free - but they are a bit more complicated.Finally, email. Any messages sent to a name followed by @contentgenerators.com will get to me. All I had to do was set up a new account in my email program (under the preferences file, normally) using the details Icom.com had given me.I thought it was just a matter of waiting. Wrong. If you build it, they won't necessarily come. In the first few days, no one came.Then I discovered sites such asSubmitit.com, which gave me a free trial. It checked my site for efficiency, broken links and so on and then, with my help, submitted it to a whole variety of search engines.My business partner, who knows a lot about these things, wrote the meta tags for our site. These should go at the top of the index page. Although they don't appear on the page, meta tags are what the search engines look for when they catalogue your page.So, now I'm in business. I'm on the internet. And every day, more and more people look at the site. I don't expect it to directly increase our business, but it is a great shop window. I can direct people to our site, and it makes us look a lot more professional.Where to buy web softwareFree or cheap programsThese companies provide programs that are easy to use:www.sausage.comwww.sausage.com/pagespinnerwww.gosplash.com/Free trialsMicrosoft's rival to DreamWeaverwww.microsoft.com/frontpageFreeway 2.0 is easy to usewww.softpress.com/Mainframeset.html
Nicholas Negroponte, founder of the MIT Media Lab, recently warned that we'd wake up in five years and say: "Gee, I didn't realise that Chinese was the second biggest language on the internet... after Spanish."   He's mocking the idea that most of the net will always be in English, and if it isn't, how much will we understand? Aston Fallen, an American who lives in Paris, has the answer. It's been in development for more than 30 years, and it's called MT, for "machine translation".Late next month, Fallen will travel to CeBIT, the giant German computer exhibition, for the European launch of Systran's suite of packaged retail programs. These will enable users with PCs to translate between many popular language pairs. The programs run on Windows 95/98 and NT and Unix systems, and prices will range from &#163;25 for a single-user PC to about &#163;2,600 for a shared server.It's not the first time Fallen has done something like this: he launched the Globalink Power Translation system, before the company was taken over by speech-recognition specialists Lernout &amp; Hauspie. But he thinks it will be easier this time. "The internet has made all the difference," he says. "It's no longer 'MT? How do you spell that?' but 'When can I get it?' "Five or 10 years ago, few people were interested in software that could accept text in one language and translate it into another. Systran's main customers were the European Commission and the American intelligence services, plus a sprinkling of large corporations. The EC also financed MT research, and sponsored development projects covering languages that had to be added to its roster when new countries joined.The globalisation of information via the internet has changed all that. Most companies have email addresses and websites, and they have to cope with email from all over the world. As Systran points out, "the e in e-business doesn't stand for English."Ordinary users are also surfing foreign websites, or finding articles in foreign newspapers and magazines, or chatting on bulletin boards. That and the rapid growth of a truly world wide web is stimulating the need for instant translations, and MT can provide them in a few seconds.MT won't, of course, provide the quality you'd expect from a professional. However, it usually provides enough of the meaning to make the   minimal effort worth while.Systran, a family-owned company based in Soisy-sous-Montmorency in France, is just one of a handful of major companies that provides a free translation service online. Its Babelfish system is heavily used because it's available at the AltaVista and Go/Infoseek search engines. Users can also get instant translations at theSystransoft websiteby pasting in the text or a web page address. The web is providing Systran with a new market, and new marketing opportunities, even though people don't pay for the facility.But as Fallen says: "Free is the first step towards making money on the net. You get the user hooked on the idea that he can do this, and then he thinks about tailor-made dictionaries and links to his site, and maybe offering translations on his own site. All of that leads to making money."Customised dictionaries are a key element, and Fallen says dictionaries are   still the most important part of the MT equation for tackling idioms like "it's raining cats and dogs". PC users have seen massive improvements in things like speech recognition and computer graphics over the past decade, thanks to massive increases in computer power, but MT hasn't improved very much. Fallen says: "Chips are still not powerful enough to capture the nuances. I'm not a technology guy, but the power you'd need is above 2,000MHz PC to make a real difference."However, the MT industry has benefited from the arrival of powerful PCs. For example, Fallen says the European Commission is now moving to PCs instead of using mainframes, as PCs provide more flexibility. In the future, he also sees machine translation moving to handheld computers, and Systran is now developing a system to run on Microsoft Windows CE machines.Why CE?"A French company came to us - a very recognisable   name, with a manufacturing facility in Hong Kong - and said 'Can you do it for CE?' The answer was 'Yes, we can'." Fallen says that all Systran's products are now being developed on the GNU/Linux clone of the Unix operating system, and they'll look at porting it to anything.One day, mobile phones might also become powerful enough to handle machine translation, and WAP, the Wireless Application Protocol, might provide a motive for using it. But ultimately, what phone users would really like is not text-to-text translation but something that translates speech-to-speech in real time.Fallen reckons we already have the technology to do that, at some level, but nobody could afford it.But if ever we do arrive at the solution proposed in Douglas Adams' novel, The Hitch-Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy - put a Babelfish in your ear -it will probably be a microchip-based fish running machine translation software.
PC sales boomingPersonal computer sales kept on growing last year despite fears of a Y2K-induced slowdown, and misinformed hype about new kinds of mobile devices.According to Dataquest, a US-based industry research firm, worldwide personal computer shipments grew by 22% last year to 113.5 million units. Rival research company International Data Corporation, which reported similar figures this week, reported that global PC sales increased by 23.3% to 112.7 million units.Compaq was the worldwide market leader: Dataquest put its PC sales at 15m units with a 13% market share. It was followed by Dell (11.1m units), IBM (8.9m), Hewlett-Packard (7.2m), Packard Bell/NEC (5.9m), Gateway (4.6m) and Apple (3.8m).Dell enjoyed the biggest growth, up by 51%. Hewlett-Packard (up 34%), Gateway (up 30%) and Apple (up 25%) also grew faster than the market. In the important US market, Dell overtook Compaq for the first time, shipping 7m PCs for a 16% market share. Two former market leaders, IBM and Apple, both lost US market share, and are now fifth and sixth respectively.The figures are for personal computer sales, and exclude servers, where Compaq is particularly strong.Woohoo!It might have been a hip joke, or the internet's greatest    hack, but readers of one of the oldest and best-known webzines have had a shock:Wordhas changed its award- winning design into a copy ofYahoo!The site has always been at the bleeding edge of design, but now funky art director Yoshi Sodeoka has recanted. In an open letter, he admits to designing pages that many people couldn't read, and apologises for the fact that Word regularly crashes browsers."I have been making pretty design for Word, not to serve the needs of the masses, but in all honestly, to please only but a handful of my dear friends and also my family," he writes. He's now concluded that "simplicity works the best for   the internet. Not fancy animation, not complicated nested frames, not crazy JavaScript tricks... just bare, minimal, simple HTML with grey background that is soft on the eyes". If the recantation is as serious as it looks, the backlash against pointless web design tricks has claimed its first major victim.Writer's guideThe internet now contains more than a billion documents, according to Inktomi, whose search engine software is used by many leading sites. It's a huge potential market for writers both amateur and professional. It's also a market that Jane Dorner has been tracking for some time: she launched a magazine, The Electronic Author, for the Society of Authors in 1993. Now she's written it all down in a &#163;9.99 paperback, The Internet: A Writer's Guide, which will be published by A &amp; C Black tomorrow. Since writers are not known for being at the forefront of technology, no previous knowledge is assumed.Think $1IBM, the world's biggest computer company, last week offered ThinkPad notebook PCs on its internet site for $1 each, instead of the usual $1,499 and $1,899. The company blamed "a bad data feed" during a site upgrade for the special price, which was only posted for a few hours. IBM received "several dozen orders for several hundred of the ThinkPad items", but it's not going to honour its inadvertent offer. It has merely offered to fulfil the orders at the normal price but with free shipping. The mishap is unlikely to feature in IBM's entertaining series of TV commercials, which present the company as a world leader in implementing electronic commerce.More fire powerCanon has just announced a new lightweight digital camera with a resolution of 3.3 megapixels. The PowerShot S20 can capture images at 2048 by 1536 pixels, which Canon claims will be the highest resolution compact camera on the market. It will be on sale in March.
Best sellersElectronic Arts' Fifa 2000 soccer sim was the best selling game in the UK last year. It shifted almost half a million copies, even though it only appeared just before Christmas. On figures compiled by games trade magazine MCV, Fifa 2000 (480,000) pipped GTI's Driver (467,000), Konami's Metal Gear Solid (350,000), Sony's Gran Turismo (330,000) and Eidos Interactive's Tomb Raider 4 (320,500). Tomb Raider 2 (270,000) and Fifa 99 (250,000) also made the top ten. All the top games were available for the Sony   PlayStation, and seven for the PC.In the US, Hasbro's Roller-Coaster Tycoon (719,535 units) was the year's best-selling PC game, according to research firm PC Data. EA's SimCity 3000 (657,514) came second, ahead of Disney's quiz game, Who Wants To Be A Millionaire? (592,655), Microsoft's Age of Empires II (469,376), and Havas Interactive's Half-Life (445,123).Back on trackBritish Sony PlayStation owners have been feeling jealous because the Americans can buy Gran Turismo 2, the car rally game, and we can't. However, the agony has been ameliorated by news that Sony Computer Entertainment of America has had to remaster the disc. "In an attempt to meet and satisfy the extremely high consumer demand," says SCEA, "Gran Turismo 2 shipped with a few software bugs that, unfortunately, were not caught during our extensive product   evaluation process." Some players found they could not reach the 100% score and a few lost saved game data. There should be no problems with the UK version, which is due in the shops tomorrow.Barking good funSega of Japan plans to enter the mechanical dog business in competition with Sony's AIBO. According the reports from Japan, Poo-chi, a "low-cost robot dog", will be launched on April 1. Unlike AIBO it will not be able to learn, but it will be able to respond to its owner and exhibit "moods". Sega's toy dog will be 14cm tall and weigh 365g including batteries. It will be available in translucent blue, pink or green versions for less than 3,000 yen (about &#163;17). Sega UK could not provide further information, but apparently Tiger Electronics - the company that sold the Furby - will distribute Poo-chi in the US and Europe.Drift southInfogrames, the acquisitive French games group, is moving its UK headquarters from Manchester to London. Having completed the takeover of GT Interactive, it's consolidating staff in GTI's office in Hammersmith. However, the company will continue to develop games in Manchester (where Infogrames took over Ocean Software in 1966) and Sheffield (where it took over the Gremlin Group last year).
PC buyers are notorious tyre-kickers, so it will be interesting to see whether they are prepared to pay a premium for something stylish, such as Gateway's new Profile 2. This is one of the first PCs since the Acer Aspire that looks good enough for a modern living room.The Profile 2 is an all-in-one machine, the 15in flat-screen monitor being hinged to the semicircular base that holds the electronics. It only takes a few seconds to get up and running, and you can be on the internet in minutes.Everything is built in, including stereo loudspeakers, a microphone, and a V.90 (56K) modem, with only the keyboard and mouse being attached by USB (Universal Serial Bus) ports. There are five USB ports in all, for attaching scanners, printers, cameras and other peripherals. There's also a built in Ethernet port for networking.To simplify the system and make it more reliable, early 1980s clutter such as   the serial and parallel ports and expansion slots have been left out. This means the Profile 2 will probably attract new buyers, rather than upgraders keen to hang on to existing peripherals.The Profile 2's performance is adequate for everyday home or business use. It has a 500MHz Intel Celeron (Pentium II) processor, 64MB of memory, 20GB hard disk and a floppy drive. The 15in screen providers true colour (24bit) graphics with a resolution of 1024 by 768 pixels, and the usable area is almost as big as a conventional 17in monitor. However, the speakers are a bit tinny, and the design has one big drawback: a built-in fan. You can't see it, but you can hear it.The Profile 2 costs &#163;1,685 including VAT and delivery. You can think of that as 60% more than you'd pay for a conventional PC with a 17in monitor, or 25% less than you'd pay for a comparable notebook PC with a 15in LCD and DVD drive.Your choice.
That old black magicFaustCryo PC CD-rom &#163;29.99Atlantis 2Cryo PC CD-rom &#163;29.99One unfortunate consequence of the regular increases in graphical and processing power is that some gaming genres get prematurely retired. Take 2D platform games for example.Castlevania, on the PlayStation, was a superb title whose charms were widely ignored by a 3D-obsessed audience, and it's the same with point and click adventure titles.The genre - developed by Lucasarts in the late 80s, and including classics like Monkey   Island - has become increasingly overlooked by publishers, despite the sophistication of recent offerings such as Grim Fandango. Sad news indeed for anyone who enjoyed the style and wit of Guybrush Threepwood and co.Bucking this trend, however, French developer Cryo has released two new adventures. The first, Faust, is set in an eerie theme park called Dreamland. As an emissary from above, your task is to listen to a motley bunch give their life-stories while assessing their suitability for entrance to the afterlife.Progress is made by finding objects, solving puzzles and moving your cursor wildly round the screen in the search for hotspots - areas with which you can interact. These can often be annoyingly   sensitive and cause the main problem in an atmospheric, if slightly odd, adventure.Atlantis2 is a slower paced, Myst-style yarn involving sibling rivalry, set across some beautifully-drawn global landscapes. The authentic information about these areas does veer worryingly into infotainment territory while the solemnity of proceedings will be off-putting for Lucasarts veterans.However, the puzzle-heavy nature will enthrall cerebral gamesplayers and there is plenty of scope for extensive beard scratching.While neither title is perfect, their very existence will satisfy adventurers everywhere, and raise hopes of similar titles in the future.  (GH)Cartman and cartsSouth Park RallySony PlayStation &#163;39.99 Tantalus Interactive/AcclaimHitting cows is no problem, but the snowploughs can flip you over, and being hit by a school bus is no joke. Or rather, it is a joke in South Park Rally, which is not big on realism. Or graphics. Or plotting.The story is that, every year, South Park holds a race round snow-covered local streets and roads. South Park Rally lets you compete as Cartman, Stan, Kyle, Kenny or another character - there are 27 available. Foul play is almost obligatory, and various levels have a wide range of weapons and hazards. The action can get frantic.But the graphics are crude, on the PlayStation, and the sound effects - characters making typical quips - are repetitive. These don't encourage you    to keep going with what is quite a hard game, and you have to earn all the extra tracks and features: as a beginner, you get only one. There is a two-player mode that, even on the arcade level, can be fun. (The forthcoming PC, Sega Dreamcast   and Nintendo 64 versions will all support four players.)South Park Rally is the best South Park game so far, but that's not saying much. There are a lot better games on the market, even in the post-Christmas slump. (JS)Cannon fodderSpec Ops II: US Green BeretsZombie/Take 2/RipcordSpec Ops: US Army Rangers, released in 1998, was a deserved hit: simple to pick up, well balanced, and often gripping. As the first team combat strategy title, it was ground-breaking, too.In the interim, we've had Rainbow Six, Commandos, and Hidden &amp; Dangerous... but to look at Spec Ops II, you wouldn't know it. Sure, it has more features -multiplayer capability, new weapons, dynamic lighting and music - but these have generally conspired to make the game more cumbersome.As well as mouse commands, there are no fewer than 44 keys to keep track of. Why does the "use item"   command need to be assigned to a different key from "open door"? Why can't the flashlight be incorporated into the inventory? As a highly trained US army officer, you're more likely to be undone by your typing skills than you are by poor strategy or slow reflexes.The character models are singularly unattractive. This bunch of squaddies would have trouble pulling at a disco.Of all the myriad camera angles, there isn't one from which it's easy to pick out your target except sniper mode, where you can't see anything but. And don't rely on your teammates to get you out of a sticky situation: chances are they'll have thrown themselves under the nearest enemy truck five seconds into the mission.On the plus side, gameplay is smooth enough, and the sound effects are invariably spot on. But all in all, this is not a game that will be winning any medals. (AB)
Internet sites which publish criminally racist material are to be targeted for the first time in Britain by the internet watch foundation under plans backed yesterday by the government's e-commerce minister, Patricia Hewitt, and Whitehall's e-envoy, Alex Allan.The move marks a major extension of the activities of the industry-financed foundation, which up to now has concentrated on advising the main internet servers, such as BT, Aol, Demon Internet and LineOne, to block access to illegal child pornography sites. It is also involved in developing systems of labelling and rating to enable parents to screen the sites their children visit.The foundation's assistant chief executive, Ruth Dixon, said yesterday that it is to extend its self-regulation approach to racism on the internet. "We are concerned about sites with criminally racist content as opposed to those that people might simply find offensive and which would not be subject to prosecution. We are asking people to report material they believe is illegal to us."We will make an assessment and then liaise with the industry and law enforcement agencies. We would tell the internet service providers that it is possible to access potentially illegal content through their servers. Our experience with child pornography has been that they remove it."The foundation's chairman, Roger Darlington, said there were about 20 British-based internet sites which propagate fascist white supremacist views, including hard-core Nazi material. They included sites maintained by organisations such as Blood and Honour and Combat 18. There were more than 500 websites based in the US which propagated white power, race hate,   anti-semitism, and holocaust denial. The home secretary, Jack Straw, has already declared his intention that the internet cannot exist in an anarchistic free speech environment. The home office minister Lord Bassam said yesterday that although the government supported freedom of expression it was more important to protect the public.Mr Darlington said he was to meet Lord Bassam to clarify the exact extent of the law on the net, but he believed that the 1986 public order act, which makes it an offence to publish material designed or likely to stir up racial hatred, would outlaw offensive sites.The foundation includes nearly all the internet companies which provide "dial-up access" for British web subscribers. It has been running a successful hotline for the public to report potentially illegal child pornography sites for three years. Figures published yesterday show that last year it handled 5,000 complaints on its hotline and advised internet companies to take action over 11,500 child porn items."Racist content is a much more difficult area than child pornography," said Mr Darlington. "The definition of what is criminally racist material is much more complex. Unlike child pornography, mere possession of such material is not illegal and it has to be proved that there is an intention to publish the material to others. It is not always easy to prove individual responsibility for racist material."Ms Hewitt said yesterday: "We need to ensure that people can use the internet without fear of finding offensive and illegal material. The IWF plays a vital role in combating criminal material on the net, and developing systems so that people can filter the material."
Bill Gates, the world's richest man, yesterday emerged as the most philanthropic person on the planet after donating another $5bn to his charitable foundation.The latest gift by the founder of Microsoft, the software giant, brings the total managed by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation to $21.8bn (&#163;13.2bn) - edging it past the UK's Wellcome Trust, which has assets of &#163;13.0bn.Yesterday's announcement coincides with the latest development in the long-running legal battle between Microsoft and the US justice department, which has accused the company of abusing its monopoly position in the world's software market.Mr Gates and his wife have appeared to become far more generous since the US government's anti-monopolies case started in 1998.Last year Mr Gates said he was committed to giving away the majority of his wealth, estimated at about $100bn and based on his 15% stake in Microsoft. The foundation has focused on health and education issues around the world including work to limit the spread of Aids in Africa.Three months ago the foundation announced that it would donate $750m over five years to help vaccinate children in developing countries. To keep its tax-exempt status the fund must give away at least 5% of its endowment each year.Government officials were yesterday preparing to present their rebuttal of Microsoft's defence in Washington. The response is expected to argue that the company has ignored the indictment of its behaviour already made by the trial judge, Thomas Penfield Jackson.Bad weather on the east coast of the US was yesterday threatening to prevent the government from physically filing its 30-page rebuttal to a snowbound courthouse.
Deutsche Telekom yesterday revealed plans to cash in on the boom in internet stocks by floating its T-Online business in mid-April. Analysts are already putting a price tag of between &euro;20bn (&#163;12bn) and &euro;30bn on T-Online, which is Europe's biggest internet service provider.Deutsche Telekom, which owns the One2One mobile phone business in Britain, said that it would be keeping a "clear majority stake" in T-Online, with indications that it may offer a 10% stake to investors.The German telecoms operator is also lining up a flotation of its T-Mobil mobile phone business towards the end of the year.Though the sales, plus the disposal of the 10% stake in the American telecoms company Sprint, are bound to raise speculation that Deutsche Telekom is bolstering its coffers before hitting the acquisitions trail, the proceeds of the T-Online float are expected to remain with the internet business.The stake on offer is expected to come from issuing new stock, however, allowing T-Online to use its own shares to make acquisitions without Deutsche Telekom having to give up control."By offering T-Online shares on the stock market, Deutsche Telekom is broadening the basis which exists for its subsidiary's growth strategy," the group said.The T-Online sale will be at least two months ahead of the sale of the next tranche from the 66% of Deutsche Telekom shares still controlled by the state. Under the terms of its most recent sale, the government cannot sell any more shares before June. News of   the T-Online sale boosted Deutsche Telekom shares by 4% on the German market as investors digested the likely value of T-Online."The value of internet stocks is rising by the hour," according to analyst Theo Kitz at Merck Finck and Co.At the press conference yesterday Deutsche Telekom's chairman Ron Sommer refused to be drawn on the likely value of T-Online. "It depends on what the stock market does,"he said.Deutsche Telekom said that T-Online had doubled its customer base to 4.2m subscribers in the past two years. Monthly growth had been running at around 100,00 a month for most of 1999 but had doubled in the last quarter of the year.Traffic volumes had also risen sharply. Though Mr Sommer refused to be drawn on the Deutsche Telekom's acquisition strategy in the face of the rapid consolidation in the industry, the group is known to be keen to expand in both fixed and mobile telephony in Europe.In addition to One2One, it also owns max.mobile in Austria and made an unsuccessful bid for Telecom Italia last year with the German group's position as a state controlled company proved a key stumbling block.Analysts are looking to Deutsche Telekom to make international acquisitions to offset tough conditions in its home market.Last week the group reported profits last year had fallen by 45% to &euro;1.2bn - broadly in line with expectations, largely as a result of price cutting in the fiercely competitive and recently deregulated German market.Revenues were disclosed as virtually unchanged at &euro;35.3bn.
Online shoppers will soon be able to buy toothpaste and deodorant at the same time as books after a deal announced yesterday byAmazon.com, the internet bookseller.Drugstore.com, which is the market leader for online pharmaceuticals in the United States, will become the first separate company to be prominently displayed on Amazon's home page.Drugstore.com - which was established in 1998 and floated on the stock market last year - is to pay Amazon $105m (&#163;63.6m) over the next three years for this access to the Seattle-based company's some 1.6m customers.In return Amazon, which already owns 27% of the drugs company, is to buy another   $30m worth of shares, bringing its total investment to 28%.Jeff Bezos, Amazon's founder and chief executive, said yesterday: "We're working to make Amazon.com the only place where you can find anything and everything you might want to buy online."Bill Curry, a spokesman for Amazon, said that the deal was likely to be the first of many. "We expect more arrangements like this when it makes sense for our customers."Amazon has been busily buying stakes in online groups over the past two years as it diversifies away from online bookselling. As well as its stake in Drugstore.com, it has invested inPets.com, the online pet shop, andGear.com, the discount sports retailer.On Friday, it announced a stake inGreenlight.com, an  online car retailer. The group also offers customers access to an auction site. Online drug selling is becoming a highly competitive market as new companies fight for a share of the $155bn retail drugstore market in the US.As well as selling a range of health and beauty products and prescription drugs, Drugstore.com sends refill reminders via e-mail and offers detailed information about drugs and health issues.Pharmacists are available for e-mail consultation for questions which might be embarrassing to ask over the counter.Other Drugstore investors include Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers, the venture capital group, and Rite Aid, the struggling offline drugs group which also has a delivery agreement with Drugstore.
The merger of Time Warner (TW) with EMI barely a week after the former had been swallowed by AOL reflects the awesome speed of corporate realignment to meet the challenge of the world wide web. There is scarcely a moment to take breath in this new era when everything is done at a speed known as "internet time". So there's certainly no time to mourn the passing of the last big chunk of the UK music market - with a global share of 14% - into US hands: no time to lament the former dominance of British pop groups in the US. Last year only the Spice Girls (at 99) entered Billboard's Hot 100. And no time to lament this body blow to the founding spirit of the web - individual empowerment.Multinational corporations appear to be the ones being empowered by the internet. They are busily buying each other up to become big enough in global terms to dominate the commerce of the internet. The new TW/EMI conglomerate will provide a one-stop shop for a dizzy array   of talent ranging from the Beatles and the Rolling Stones to Madonna and the Red Hot Chilli Peppers. It hopes to take pole position as the industry races to deliver its music through the internet to personal computers, MP3 players (which receive music in digital form) or by wireless to mobile phones - which will be able to do everything that an MP3 player can do and more. Once they have provided a huge one-stop shop for music under a global brand name there will be no room for small players.Or will there? The behemoths have forgotten one thing. The musicians they are colonising are also "brands" and able, contracts permitting, to deliver their own albums direct to customers. EMI did this first by releasing a David Bowie album recently through the net before it hit the stores. But there is nothing to stop Bowie or others from doing the same on their own. Maybe the TW/EMI colossus is just a huge intermediary waiting to be eaten by the latent power of the web.
WhenEric Nicoli, at the time chief executive ofUnited Biscuits, was named as the next chairman ofEMIat the start of last year the jibes came thick and fast.What did a man who had spent 19 years sellingJaffa CakesandHula Hoopsknow about the pop charts? More keenly felt than the barbed comments was the 4.5% fall in EMI's share price which accompanied his appointment.Yesterday he sported a barely suppressed grin, perhaps in answer to those critics, as he presented the joint venture withTime Warner. With his close cropped hair and slim fitting suit over an admittedly burly figure, the 49- year-old sat tapping his hand on the arm of his chair in time toMadonna'sRay of Light suggesting he was every bit a player.Mr Nicoli joined EMI after a sustained period of difficulty compounded by falling music    sales worldwide. There were a succession of profit warnings, the business was rife with management disputes and its share price was at new lows afterSeagramboughtPolyGraminstead of EMI.Since joining, he has focused on reducing costs and developing a strategy for the internet. Profits are again moving up and its market is recovering, although it would be difficult to say how much credit could be laid at Mr Nicoli's door.The one thing which he had to achieve was a deal with another entertainment industry major - which he has accomplished while maintaining the semblance of control.
France's Nouveau March&eacute; will try to get trading underway in stock market newcomerArtprice.comtoday after dealings had to be halted before they began yesterday as huge demand twice triggered trading controls.The price has already hit &euro;42.88 (&#163;26) - more than double the price at which shares were initially offered to investors and looks set to surge higher today.Under stock market rules shares are temporarily suspended if the price rises too fast. For public offers the initial ceiling is 20% after which a further 20% rise triggers a second suspension of dealings.For Artprice.com, the online fine art auction database, exchange authorities had widened the 20% bands to allow a price jump of up to 50%   but even that proved insufficient to allow trading to start. The price immediately hit the first stop of &euro;28.59."The demand was so strong we decided to allow a further 50% price rise but we could not trade even at this price," an exchange spokesman said.This morning the exchange will allow a further 50% appreciation and if that is not sufficient to get trading under way it will allow the price to rise another 50%.Artprice.com is the first pure dot.com to hit the French market and demand for the shares on offer has been huge. According to the offer's lead manager, Europe Finance and Industrie, the institutional element was 70 times oversubscribed. Retail demand was also strong. Only 5% of bids for up to 100 shares and none of the bids for more than 100 shares could be met.
Behind the plate glass doors of the Aston Martin showroom on Park Lane lies an exclusive air- conditioned world that smells of leather, reeks of money and provides temporary marble-floored garage space to a handful of the most sought after and expensive motors in the world. The Newport Pagnell-based company produces just 650 cars a year, most of which are sold to princes, playboys, sheiks and the super-rich, and Aston has provided a showroom in which such distinguished punters will feel at home.Last week however, when Mike Tyson popped into this elegant oasis for a peek at an Aston accompanied by his entourage and half of Fleet Street, the "sales specialists" (the company is far too posh to employ straightforward salesmen) were faced with an unfamiliar dilemma. What do   you do when someone with a wallet bursting with cash, a love of British sports cars, a rape conviction and a record of violent crime walks in and says he wants to buy one of your cars? Do you sell him the car and have your distinguished marque associated with the "World's Baddest Man", or do you preserve the firm's good name and tell him, sorry, but has he thought about a Jaguar?Actually, you don't become an Aston Martin sales specialist without being smarter than that. Tyson was told that the model he was interested in, a V8 Vantage, a snip at &#163;189,950, "did not conform to emission standards in the United States". The power of the Vantage's 5.3 litre, twin-supercharged engine is such that it is indeed only available in markets "where legislation allows".Remarkably, given Tyson's attitude to US motoring law - he was jailed for   a road-rage attack last year - this dissuaded the former heavyweight world champion. (For McLaren it was easier: when Tyson inquired about the &#163;600,000 F1, they could honestly tell him that no more would be made.)Publically, Aston Martin expressed ambivalence about the prospect of Iron Mike purchasing one of their cars. "Were Mike Tyson to buy an Aston Martin we wouldn't think 'oh great', but neither would we be throwing our head in our hands at the prospect," says spokeswoman Barbara Prince. "While we certainly would never condone any criminal act, we are simply the manufacturer and would never seek to intervene."It's fair to assume however that a firm that counts Prince Charles among its customers and is quietly content to be associated with James Bond, can do without being associated with the man labelled by one paper last week as "London's most shameful tourist".The question of celebrity endorsements is a difficult one for car companies. Many major manufacturers have embraced the idea, banking on the notion that a star can raise the profile and perception of a mass-produced model in a way that can not be achieved by stressing the merits of the actual vehicle. Citro&euml;n recently ran a campaign for the Xsara featuring Claudia Schiffer, Vauxhall enlisted the help of Ruby Wax for their Corsa ads, while Renault reinforced the success of the Nicole campaign for the Clio by marrying her off to Bob Mortimer.Such tactics are all very well if you can guarantee your celebs are not about to be mired in scandal. Volkswagen received yards of publicity when they loaned Tara Palmer-Tompkinson a new Beetle, but since the party girl checked into rehab for treatment for drug and alcohol dependency, their PR department is eager to remind journalists that she only had the car for a week, and under the normal conditions of a test-drive. As Julia Hobsbawm of Hobsbawm Macaulay PR says, "A celebrity is only of any use until they get into a scandal, and then they're nothing but trouble."Public relations guru Max Clifford says Aston Martin would be well advised to resist any further attempts by Tyson to buy one of their cars. "Such is the reputation of the man that it could be embarrassing to them, given the controversy he attracts. There's no doubt that such controversy in boxing means bums on seats, but it wouldn't do much for Aston Martin." As befits the acknowledged master of turning even the most appalling reputation to a client's advantage Clifford says that despite Tyson's dubious record he might yet be a suitable candidate to endorse a certain type of car."If I was working for a car company which wanted to market a fast and dangerous car, then I might be saying 'Mike, drive our car.' It would have to be someone willing to take a risk, but such a model would be in keeping with the man. Having said that, I can't think of a car company that would take such a chance."Porsche avoid such risks altogether by avoiding any direct connection with celebrities. According to James Pillar of their UK marketing division, they would never attempt stop someone buying a Porsche."We wouldn't stop someone from buying our car on the basis of their reputation, we wouldn't be that arrogant," he says. "If Mike Tyson wanted to buy a car from us we would be delighted to sell him one, although we would advise him to purchase the car in America, where Porsches are available to American specifications."We are asked almost on a monthly basis by tabloid newspapers to provide them with the names of celebrity Porsche owners, and we only ever give the name of someone who has already publically expressed their preference for a Porsche," he says."We're a small manufacturer and we can't afford to provide fleets of our cars to celebrities. We sell just 3,500 cars a year in the UK - we operate in a niche within a niche. Having said that we do have many celebrity customers," concludes Pillar, demonstrating a canny knack of having it both ways.Ferrari are similarly reticent about their celebrity owners, perhaps unsuprisingly given that three of the most high-profile - David Beckham, Andy Cole and Dwight Yorke - all found themselves in court in the last three months for various motoring misdemeanours. Such associations are a predictable consequence of appealing to the rich and occasionally reckless, but by refusing to offer an opinion, Ferrari at least limit the damage such events cause to their glossy reputation.Jaguar, alone among luxury sports car manufacturers, openly court celebrity. The marque that once conjured images of Arthur Daley, Inspector Morse and getaway cars in the Sweeney now provides cars for squeeky clean footballers Michael Owen and Alan Shearer. Spokesman Ken McConomy acknowledges that there is a risk involved in such deals but says, in the case of
Shearer and Owen, it's minimal. "These people are carefully selected. They're reliable role models. People like them represent successful young customers, which we like to attract - and importantly, they are British."As if to demonstrate just how carefully selected their celebrity drivers are, McConomy reveals that England rugby captain, Martin Johnson, was given an S Type in September last year. Lawrence Dallaglio, on the other hand, was not approached.
"News that the Spanish Government will not help pay for Britain's legal costs over the Pinochet affair is not surprising.Spain may have some of the best roads in Europe, along with the best restaurants and museums, but as soon as anyone asks them for money they wheel out some walnut-faced peasant on a donkey and claim to be part of the Third World. They nick our fish, take more in EU subsidies than any other member state and have still not formally apologised for spoiling Drake's game of bowls. Well fine. We won't buy their hateful cars."Jeremy Clarkson, The Sun
The "Kipper Season", as it is known in the trade, is upon us again. The months when the taxi-riding public has a collective financial hangover and business is as flat as a kipper.Tradition dictates that once the Christmas decorations come down in Regent Street it falls to the cab trade to brighten up the shopping districts - a parade of slow-moving yellow "for hire" lights provide a colourful backdrop to the January sales. Pedestrians raising their arms to point at bargains in the window are in danger of being mown down as three cabs mount the pavement to claim the job. The Kipper Season is the time when normal etiquette between cab drivers is strained to breaking point.Even those who do get in the cab seem to begrudge every penny. As if you were somehow personally responsible for their end of millennium financial excess. "Oh, you're   going this way," comes a voice from the back before I've driven 20 yards towards Chelsea. "No, no, you're the expert," he says, but there is clearly some ironic emphasis on the word "expert".I soon tire of chasing non- existent street fares and head over to Victoria in the hope of ranking up at the station. My optimism is misplaced. It's a struggle even to find the back of the rank. The end of the snaking chain of empty cabs finally peters out somewhere in the side streets of Pimlico. This is strictly for the old-timers. Pottering about in an antique cab for a few hours a week may keep you out of the house, but it is no way of making a living.This kind of driver is impervious to stress. After waiting an hour on the rank he will not blow an internal fuse when greeted by a passenger who wants to go "just up the road, guv, I'm late for a meeting". Unfortunately, I am not this    kind of driver. I am the kind who is apt to scream "Late for a meeting?  Late for a meeting!  You should have got up earlier, you selfish  slacker!  "To avoid this unseemly spectacle, I decide to dawdle out to the airport, where a lengthy wait is at least rewarded with a decent fare back into London. In addition, the wait at Heathrow affords me ample time to sleep and read. As soon as I hit the M4, I know I have made a mistake. Thick fog is swirling around the motorway and, by the time I reach the airport, visibility is down to a few yards. Flights are bound to be diverted or cancelled and a two-hour wait is likely to turn into the   kind of marathon that will enable me not only to read a book, but to write one, too.Four gloomy hours later and I am only just being directed to the rank at terminal three. Where did my life take such a wrong turn? Keeping the engine running for warmth, I am bitterly regretting not putting in those extra hours in the run-up to Christmas. Finally, my fare approaches. A thick-set man in a sheepskin jacket. He is in a hurry. "How far to Stansted airport?" he asks in a heavy indeterminate accent. I check that he said how far and not how much, and tell him an hour. "OK. Go. Drive!" he says, bundling into the back. My attempt   to price the trip before we set off only seems to agitate him further. "Go. Go. Don't worry about price."Foolish as these words may seem to anyone familiar with the practices of some Heathrow cabbies, I get the book out and insist on telling him the price. After all, he may be Albanian and sincere in his belief that a one-hour taxi ride cannot cost more than ten pounds. What if he has a heart attack when presented with the bill at the other end? Best he gets the bad news now.I tell him the price. His response does not miss a beat. "OK. Drive. Fast." Kipper Season? Make mine a salmon sandwich.
Invest in brands - they are the assets of the future. This is the received wisdom. It is argued that we are all increasingly pressured, with more of us working longer and so we need ways to decide our purchases quickly and easily. We will turn to companies and brands we trust.Boots will not just be a chemist, it will also provide us with dental services - as it already provides optical services - and will probably provide health care as well. Internet suppliers such as Amazon.com are spending fortunes to establish their brands. Increasingly fewer suppliers will provide standard products and services and make life easy for us - just as Microsoft does in software and McDonalds and Coca-Cola in food and drink. You know exactly what you're going to get, it's available everywhere, and is highly reliable - or so the theory goes.This is a seductive picture, building on trends that we can recognise even if we deplore them. We know some global   brands already exist, and we can observe the huge marketing to maintain their presence.As the media industry too is globalised, surely the pressure behind the big brands will intensify and smaller brands and companies will be squeezed out. Unilever is already rationalising its brand lines - selling the smaller brands which it thinks will not survive and which are not worth the advertising support. Oil of Ulay has become Oil of Olay to standardise the name worldwide, with useful travelling sachets widely distributed in support of the name change. Opal Fruits are now Starburst - if you haven't realised all this already, the campaigns have obviously passed you by.Big business will thus get bigger, and our tastes will be managed to fit in. Our busy lives will give less and less time for searching for alternatives and the biggest advertising budget will win.But seller beware - there are inconsistencies in this seductive or nightmarish story, depending on whether you are a marketing manager or an unreconstructed consumer.First, the pressure on time is really a fiction. We may be working longer than a few years ago and more than in the rest of Europe, but compared to the past there are oceans of leisure. Annual working hours have halved compared to a century ago, and are down 25% on 1950. On top of which labour-saving devices in the home make keeping a house a doddle compared with a generation ago.So there's plenty of leisure, and indeed the leisure industry is here to prove it - holiday companies, health clubs, restaurants and wine bars are all successful businesses because now we are both leisured and wealthy.For not only are we working less than before, we also have more money to spend. It is estimated that the average household is worth &#163;72,000. Our problem is not time, or even money - it is what to do with it. We are spoilt for choice.When there is only enough money to get by and waking hours are largely spent working, there is no choice; it is enough simply to keep going. Many people in Britain can remember such times. When there are lots of options, many of them pleasurable and most heavily advertised, then the problem appears to be how to fit them all in - and suddenly time is scarce.So the busy lives the brand managers predict for us are in fact created by them - they want to simplify our choices so our time is filled by their products and services rather than anyone else's. If choice is what makes us feel unhappy, stressed and pressured, then this should be a good thing. In   a world of overabundance, limitation of choice becomes a good in itself. If religion does not provide this, brands will.So it appears to be up to us. If choice is too much for us, we'll lose it, and the risk for the brand managers is that they assume that we don't really want choice.But there is a more powerful force than advertising or customer databases - it is called word of mouth. A film can become a cult success because people tell their friends about it. You can choose one internet provider over another because someone you like tells you its OK. You can decide not to buy, not to take a particular holiday, as a result of talking to your friends and relations. This process can be understood but can't be predicted with any degree of certainty.It will continue to undermine brands in all kinds of subtle ways - and means that we may well continue to be spoilt for choice.Bridget Rosewell is chairman of Volterra Consulting
