Like many success stories of the digital era,FortressCraftstarted out because someone on the internet said it couldn't be done. Three years ago, while Adam Sawkins was working at Activision's Freestyle Games studio, he had the idea for a 3D version of the brilliant but visually inaccessible fantasy simulation, Dwarf Fortress. He spent his evenings tinkering on the project, naming it DiggersWorld and slowly building an engine. But there was a problem: he just couldn't get it to render the graphics quickly enough.Then something important happened. "I was playing Minecraft with a friend of mine, and he asked how the game's rendering worked," he recalls. "I explained about voxels, the lighting, the optimal way that facets are culled, and a little light went on in my head; I realised I could use voxels to make DiggersWorld run faster." Voxels, or volumetric pixels, are essentially building blocks from which 3D models can be calculated and displayed – they have been used for years in games, especially to create large terrains, and since the arrival of Minecraft they are back in vogue.So back in 2011, Sawkins was reminded about voxels, opening a new avenue for his DiggersWorld project. "I didn't think much further on that until I came across a thread on the Minecraft forum with the header, 'BRING MINECRAFT TO THE XBOX360'," says Sawkins. "It was full of people saying that it wasn't possible to get a Minecraft-style game working on the console. I posted saying that it was, but you'd have to do it all multi-threaded, and take advantage of the unified memory architecture on the Xbox. But I was rebutted with the phrase, 'Lol noob, you know nothing'".To him this wasn't a casual putdown, it was a challenge. Sawkins is an industry veteran, a self-taught coder who's worked at a series of studios, from Codemasters to Criterion. Like most programming geeks, he says, he's fascinated by maths-based tasks that involve stuff like ray-tracing and six-degrees-of-freedom movement. To him, bringing a Minecraft game to the Xbox seemed like an intriguing puzzle. So instead of just shrugging off the abuse, he spent the next three days working on a prototype construction sim, written using XNA, a set of tools designed by Microsoft to help indie coders create games for the Xbox 360. His project had basic voxel rendering, avatar rendering, networking… but when he posted some screenshots on the thread, he was immediately confronted with a predictable response: "FAKE AND GAY"."I had to make a video on my phone," says Sawkins. "And then I uploaded it – just  to get people to believe that I actually had it running. So to sum up; I wrote FortressCraft to prove someone wrong."The Clone warsThis combative edge has stayed with the project throughout its lifespan. As a construction game that spreads out over a procedurally generated landscape, the influence of Minecraft is obvious – it's there in the title after all. And it's there in the very DNA of the game code: both FortressCraft and Minecraft use 3DPerlin noisetechniques (invented by Ken Perlin for the movie Tron) to construct their vast randomised worlds.But the exact extent of this creative debt has been furiously debated ever since. Released on the Xbox 360's Indie Games portal in April 2011, FortressCraft was an immediate and unprecedented hit, shifting over 30,000 downloads in the space of 24 hours. Very quickly, however, there were claims that FortressCraft only sold well because it was effectively Minecraft on a console before you could actually buy Minecraft on a console. Until the release of an Xbox 360 version in May 2012, Mojang's cult smash was available only on PC, Mac and mobile. Console gamers knew about it – they just couldn't play it. FortressCraft got in at the right time, with a solid feature set and a name that signaled its inspiration.The backlash, however, was furious and sustained. As FortressCraft gained in popularity its website and forums began to attract legions of Minecraft fans who accused Sawkins of effectively ripping off Mojang's game. Eventually, even Markus "Notch" Persson, the affable creator of Minecraft got involved. In a July 2011interview with tech site Ars Technica, he said, "FortressCraft is an obvious attempt to just take something popular and clone it as closely as possible. I still think it's important that people are allowed and able to do things like that, but it's hardly graceful."Sawkins responded withan open letter, pointing out that Minecraft itself was, in turn, heavily influenced by Infiniminer, an open source sand box building game written by indie coder Zachary Barth in 2009. He also claimed that updates to FortressCraft were moving it ever further away from its origins as a 'me too' experiment. "Whereas the vast majority of Minecraft clones out there begin by emulating Minecraft's blocky, retro style, I tried as hard as possible to bring the Voxgame kicking and screaming into the modern, shader-driven era," he wrote. "With parallax mapping, thick vegetation, multiple coloured light sources, refraction and reflection, as well as beautiful, highly-detailed tools; I find the phrase 'as closely as possible' extremely hard to swallow."But the attacks kept coming and Sawkins kept batting them away. Mojang business chief, Daniel Kaplanpopped up on Kotakustating, ""I'm really bored by the clones. They don't bring anything new to the table which is really sad." Sawkins repliedvia Eurogamer, listing the differences between the games, with the help of charts and comparative screenshots. Whenever FortressCraft got press coverage, the comments sections would be jammed with livid Minecraftians tossing insults; and Sawkins would be there chucking them right back.Block-rocking treatsHis argument has always been that the construction sim is a genre and that FortressCraft brings enough of its own character to differentiate it from Notch's game. Fans point out the more detailed visuals, as well as the growing list of updated features including multiplayer mini-games, teleporters, weapons, and... trampolines. But the key differentiation has always been the ability in FortressCraft to craft personalised animating custom blocks, allowing extremely intricate modelling. "It's by far my favorite creative feature," says veteran fan, Laura Hatton. "These blocks greatly multiply the level of visual detail that I can achieve, without having to resort to an absurd scale. For example, I built two horses using detail blocks in FortressCraft, and I was able to carve each 1m block to match the fine features of the animal. If I had built them in Minecraft, I would have had to choose whether to build them the right size, but have them look like dinner tables, or include the detail, but build horses 78 feet tall."I also enjoy seeing the amazing ways people employ these mechanics in their own builds. There is a special kind of joy to be had in joining a world created by someone named 'xXx_BloodNGuts93_xXx' and finding a train of teddy bears careening through gently swaying palm trees as a flock of hungry halibut circles menacingly overhead. Such things are just not possible in Minecraft in meaningful detail, on a rational scale, and at a reasonable draw distance."Birth of a genreThe whole argument takes us back to the early days of the arcade – how much was Galaxians a clone of Space Invaders, for example? And more recently, what is the relationship of Street Fighter to Karate Champ, Unreal to Quake, or Saints Row to Grand Theft Auto? The lines between replication and iteration are blurred, and sometimes major brands like Minecraft, Worms and Angry Birds, emerge from a primordial soup of very similar, earlier titles, not marketed or polished well enough to succeed.Now thereisan official version of Minecraft on the Xbox 360, which is, of course, selling incredibly well.  But the thing is, FortressCraft is still doing well too. It is now among only a handful of Xbox digital downloads to shift over one million copies. The community has fluctuated, but it remains dedicated and creative. "The possibilities with the custom blocks are truly limitless and open the door for future gameplay unlike anything I've seen before," says FortressCraft community moderator Steve Biedrzycki. "A face-off was held about a year ago that featured duels between the best FortressCraft builders. Every one of the builds in those videos amazed me. From massive cathedrals to dueling dragons that stretched to the height of the world..."Bringing unityWhatever the case, the titles will soon be competing again. Sawkins and his small team of just three full-time staff and a handful of art freelancers, are working on a PC version of FortressCraft, using the popular indie middleware, Unity3D to re-write the world and rendering engine. "We started using it in November," he says. "They released version four and I just thought, I'll have a look, a little play, and after a few hours I was like, I'm never going back to XNA! You take an object, you drag it somewhere, you attach physics to it, you say, 'oh, if only it blurred', and in one click you have blur. It does all of the boring grunt work for you. You don't have to worry about technology, you can just get on with the game."That's always been one of the bugbears of XNA; if you wanted anything you had to do it yourself. With the shadows, for example; we could have done a full cascaded shadow system in XNA but that would have been six months of my life. Here, I click the button marked 'cascaded shadows'. Now, if you build a tall tower, it will cast  a shadow hundreds of metres across the landscape. It looks amazing."The key aim of the new version is to add more flexibility and variety to the player's palette. "We've learned what people want, they just want to make things," says Sawkins. "So now we're focusing almost entirely on the Creative Mode. It's not about challenges, it's not about making things difficult for the player,or requiring them to be particularly agile, it's just a box of Lego that you can play with forever."Players can automatically create spheres, blocks and cylinders up to an 128 metres in size ("I'm aiming for larger," says Sawkins, "but the sheer volume of data becomes crazy!"). Those can be in any material, and either hollow or solid. He shows me how quick it is to generate a huge half-sphere that looms over the landscape like some alien bio-dome. "One experienced builder saw this and said it would have taken him two days to build it in the Xbox version of FortressCraft. You can do it in ten seconds here. It's about empowering the players, not getting in their way. A lot of the Minecraft worlds you've seen have taken thousands of hours; I don't think that's fair - especially when a lot of it is grunt work. This is about allowing people who only have a few hours each evening to do something incredible."The old copy/paste system, which allows players to copy sections of the map and put them elsewhere has also been updated. It's possible to flip, rotate and scale the object, like a Photoshop image, or save it as a Schematic, which can then be used in subsequent worlds, or shared online with other players. These Schematics, as well as any of the randomly generated objects in the game world, including archways, towers and trees, can all be re-skinned en masse. "So if you're doing a Mario-themed world, you can replace all the trees with mushrooms and all the towers with pipes," says Sawkins. "Then, when you recreate the world, it will automatically theme itself to Mario. People can create unique worlds without plowing in a million hours to generate it all by hand."Naturally, there has been a visual overhaul too. When I last saw the game it was running on Adam's beast of a PC at the EToo event in London and it looked wonderful. "We've got depth-of-field effects, we've got bloom, we've got proper shadows," he lists. "The draw distance should be around 2km, when it's done, Minecraft is about 300 metres. We have hundreds of textures, everything is high resolution, we also have smaller blocks so you can build nice smooth slopes; you can build tables and chairs out of your own sub-objects, and best of all, these can be shared online in a Detail Block store. The players can also control the weather to a substantial degree - we're using an amazing plugin off of the Unity Asset Store called UniStorm. $40 spent, a few tweaks, and we ended up with this:"Size mattersThere is also the question of scale. According to Sawkins, the worlds in the Unity version of FortressCraft will be 1000 light years in all directions. 1000 light years. It sort of sounds preposterous - the stuff of programming fantasy. I ask how this is possible. "We've indexed the world using unsigned 64bit integers," he explains. I nod knowledgeably. At least the game's fans can understand the potential this offers. "I'm not sure if I'm more excited about what I'll be able to do with a world on nearly unlimited height and depth or what massive projects that others will do with such scale," enthuses Biedrzycki. "The potential for a scale version of the Death Star has me excited, especially since it will probably end up looking better than I can even visualise!"The plan is to allow massive online community worlds where each player will be given their own patch of land to do with what they please - but they'll also be able to visit all the others. Sawkins is currently talking to hosting companies about building a server network big enough for all of this. In the meantime, players will be able to set up their own servers for more modest co-operative projects. "There's also plans to allow scripted building via minions," says Sawkins. "But I've yet to find time to start on that!" At some point then, players will be able to command small armies of AI builders, toiling away on the landscape as digitised slave labourers. Unsurprisingly, the game is also set to support Oculus Rift, allowing modellers to make immersive visits to their worlds.It will be fascinating to see FortressCraft competing directly against Minecraft on a whole new platform. Whatever you think about the game's status - as a clone or a variant on the construction game blueprint - it is a worthy opponent for Mojang. And this battle is unlikely to end on PC: one of the strengths of Unity is its cross-platform functionality and next-gen console versions of FortressCraft are likely. Sawkins is apparently talking to Sony right now – perhaps his game could become the PlayStation answer to Xbox One's forthcoming Minecraft update.Is Sawkins ready for the next wave of fan rage? "It has never really stopped to be honest," he says. "It died down certainly, but I still get random abuse about how I'm stealing Minecraft's ideas. Oddly enough, they're almost always commenting on old YouTube videos; I quietly - and occasionally loudly - despair at anyone who says, 'this is stealing Notch's copyright and should be banned!' on a three year old video..."Most of the flareups are brief these days. I just link to an image likethisand they tend to quietly disappear. I do miss the enthusiasm of the Minecraft fans though - I think they themselves have lost a little of their vigour, which saddens me. The world needs more passion these days."• The PC version of FortressCraft is expected to arrive at least in Beta form this autumn. Thanks to all the FortressCraft players who helped with this article
The Ouya Android games console is a proven success at raising money:$8.6m on crowdfunding site Kickstarterfollowed by a$15m funding round from venture capital firms.But how successful is the device at actually selling games? It's fair to say early results are mixed, judging by the figures shared by developers with various games websites.Edge has talked to Matt Thorson, the developer of TowerFall, which was one of the key launch games for Ouya. "We've made about 2,000 sales so far at $15 each," he says. "So sales have been surprisingly high for a new game on a new console."Every game available on Ouya can be downloaded for free, so "sales" come when players spend money within them to unlock the full versions or purchase in-app content.Edge also has first-week sales figures for NimbleBit's Nimble Quest (6,508 downloads and 122 purchases) and Knife Media's Red (just under 400 sales), while Gamasutra has also beenasking developers how their Ouya launch titles are doing.From the latter article: developer Eric Froemling says his BombSquad game "peaked at close to 200 sales per day and am currently sitting at around 70"; Ryan Wiemeyer reports 13,112 downloads of Organ Trail, and 501 purchases; E McNeill says his Bombball game is making "a little over $30 a day"; Adam Spragg's Hidden in Plain Sight has sold 1,900 units, grossing $4,381; and Shay Pierce says Bennett Foddy's Game has been downloaded around 9,700 times and sold 520 purchases.Finally,IGN reportsthat Crescent Moon Games' Ravensword: Shadowlands has been making $100-$200 a day since launching on Ouya; Radiangames has generated 111 sales from 3,243 downloads of its two games in their first week on Ouya; Robot Invader's Wind-Up Knight has 15,000 downloads and a 1% conversion rate; and Juicy Beast's Knightmare Tower has 49,000 downloads and 2,100 purchases.Surprise surprise, nobody is getting rich on Ouya in the console's first couple of weeks, which may provide ammunition for its critics, who've maintained a steady cynicism about its prospects ever since the device hit its Kickstarter funding target.It's important to separate two questions, though: firstly whether Ouya itself is going to be a success, and secondly whether developers' investment in making new games or porting old ones to the console is worthwhile.The jury is firmly out on the first of those: NPD Group said that retail sales of Ouya after its launch in Junewere "relatively light for a new console", while reviews of the final hardware ranged fromconstructively-critical but optimistictoflatly writing off its prospects.On the second question: whether it's worth developers' effort and expense making games for Ouya. Here, the outlook is notably more positive. Why? A number of the developers interviewed by Edge, Gamasutra and IGN seem happy enough."A lot of high profile people in games have been praising the game, which is of course fantastic, and there's been a lot of talk among gamers as well. Launching on Ouya got me a lot of attention, and the sales have been better than expected," Thorfall tells Edge."It's probably not going to be a huge source of income compared to other platforms, but it's dead easy to submit a game and get it into the store. It's the only console right now with a truly open store, which makes it interesting and worth supporting if you want to see more open platforms," says NimbleBit's David Marsh."In our case, it's mostly all bonus revenues since we're expecting to recoup dev costs with the iOS revenues," says Juicy Beast's Yowan Langlais. "The port was pretty easy as well because we're using Unity3D." A point echoed by Robot Invader's Chris Pruett: "Considering the ease with which we were able to bring this game to Ouya (it was almost free for us), we don't consider it a loss."Ouya game TowerFall has made 2,000 sales so far at $15 eachSo, many developers whose Ouya sales are so-so aren't upset, partly because using tools like Unity made the conversion process relatively smooth, and partly because they buy into the console's open ethos. They're supporting Ouya because they want to support the idea of Ouya, not just for commercial motives.But I think there's something else going on here. Ouya is providing independent developers with a potentially-valuable testing ground for taking their games to the TV screen, in the expectation of more, bigger opportunities ahead through devices from the likes of Apple and Google.Apple's Apple TV set-top box still isn't open for developers to make native apps, although it can be used with iOS devices via the AirPlay technology: something Apple has been quietly encouraging developers to use behind the scenes over the past year or two.Meanwhile, Google is reportedlyworking on its own Android-based games console, which could be launched as soon as this Autumn.Where does that leave Ouya? As an actually-quite-appealing training ground for mobile games developers starting to think about these opportunities, as well as the prospects of taking their games to the indie stores of consoles like Microsoft's Xbox One and Sony's PlayStation 4.This is less about the technical ins and outs of porting a smartphone or tablet game to Ouya, and more about the more-interesting design questions of making a game that works well on a TV screen with a physical joypad, as opposed to on a touchscreen device in the hand.Ouya is a research and development opportunity for developers, in other words. And one where the console's maker is now offering to help pay for the costs of this R&amp;D, for last week Ouya launched itsFree the Games Fund, with $1m available in chunks of between $50k and $250k to match money that developers raise on Kickstarter for their Ouya projects.There are strings: projects only qualify if they have a minimum goal of $50k on Kickstarter, and if their developers promise a six-month exclusivity period for the games on Ouya after they launch. But for developers comfortable with this, the fund will make welcome news.Ouya as a device for mobile developers to cut their televisual teeth in advance of proper moneymaking opportunities on other consoles in the future may not answer that first question about the device's long-term prospects. But it does explain why sluggish sales in its early weeks on sale may not be the nail in the coffin of its games roadmap that some critics expect.
Transfer your ageing Wii content across to a Wii U and, instead of a utilitarian loading bar, you'll see a gaggle of Pikmin carry the saves, download games and other digital flotsam from one machine to the other. It's the sort of generosity of imagination that still sets Nintendo apart from its console rivals. But in Pikmin 3 the colourful, ant-like helpers carry a far greater weight on their shoulders: that of the hopes of Nintendo's ailing new console. Pikmin 3 is the first big-hitting, first-party title since the Wii U's launch and the creatures are, perhaps, a curious choice for the task. They may have originated from the mind of the company's most celebrated designer, Shigeru Miyamoto, but there are no Mario-esque star performers amongst their vivid herds. Likewise, this is a ragged sort of strategy game, with little of the straightforward, mainstream refinement of the company's better-known series.You play as members of a group of intergalactic explorers, scattered across an alien planet as a result of their spaceship's crash landing. Your overarching task is to regroup, forage for sustenance-giving fruit and gather together the various pieces of space junk needed to flee the planet. The indigenous Pikmin aid you in these quests as you fling them towards obstacles or enemies, which, in sufficient numbers, they will vanquish. On your side of the symbiotic bargain you must protect them during the day and ensure you marshal every last creature back into the spaceship before sundown. Fail to do so and any Pikmin left behind are devoured by the night time predators in a harrowing cut-scene that belies the game's otherwise sugary presentation.The game's structure is surprisingly loose. During daylight hours you explore at your own pace, collect fruit, unearth long lost human technologies from the soil and quest deeper into unknown territory. Your goals are not set to any particular schedule other than the natural time limit imposed by your food resources. Your team consumes one bottle of fruit juice per day. When this runs out it's game over, so your progress must stay at least one step ahead of your consumption.Ostensibly, the game's appeal is in the strategy. You soon begin to discover different breeds of Pikmin, each of which has its own strengths and weaknesses. Red Pikmin are strong fighters and immune to fire but drown when they come into contact with water. Rock Pikmin are sturdy and useful for throwing at enemies, but are slow. Flying Pikmin are weak attackers but can access hard-to-reach areas, while white Pikmin are quick runners, able to ferry fruit and collectibles back to your spaceship in half the time of their cousins. Each time you discover a new breed, you gain a new tool in your arsenal for uncovering the planet's secrets but, as these tools are personified as tiny creatures, you develop a care for them that runs much deeper than their utilitarian function.Indeed, this sense of stewardship is where's the game's true appeal is to be found. As a pure strategy game Pikmin 3 is less complex and nuanced than its rivals, but Nintendo's primary aim was to make something more than a pure strategy game. Its wonder is to be found in exploring the whisper and scurry of small lives; the Honey I Shrunk the Kids world beneath the tall grass which, for the first time in the medium's history, is rendered in a glorious high definition that's more entrancing than any number of wide-angle shots of post-apocalyptic cityscapes. And it's wonder is to be found in the ritual of the day: landing on the planet in the morning, harvesting new Pikmin, food and progress before scooping up your diminutive family and fleeing the dangers of the dark for the safety of the sky.The planet's different areas constitute its stages, and there's incentive to return to each when you've discovered new Pikmin breeds later in the storyline in order to unearth every last piece of collectible fruit. But if the lazy, freeform rhythms of the main storyline prove too unfocused for some players, an additional mission mode offers a number of short-paced challenges in which you must, for example, collect all the fruit in an environment against the clock, competition for a gold, silver or bronze medal. It's here, away from the main storyline, that the taut strength of the game's underlying strategy is fully revealed. Despite the appearances, this is a serious game at heart, with ample opportunity for strategic improvement and mastery.Like much of Nintendo's strongest work, Pikmin 3 appeals to adults and children in different ways. For children the game offers the joy of seeing small people's usefulness to adults – after all, these spacemen and women could never leave the planet without the Pikmins' help. And, as a counterpoint, the fear – the foundational human fear – of being left behind at the end of the day. For adults, especially parents, it's the joy of stewardship and custody, of leading directionless small people around a world, looking after them in the face of danger and, finally, delivering them safely to their beds at night. In this way the Pikmin carry a potent kernel of human experience throughout the game, one that's truer and more powerful than any found upon the pea green plains of the Mushroom Kingdom. In this way the Pikmin deliver an enthralling, at times near-classic adventure, even if their ability to salvage the Wii-U's fortunes remains in doubt.
One of the more encouraging trends of the last couple of years has been the sight of traditional media companies breaking down some of the barriers between themselves and technology startups.In the music industry, there was theOpenEMIscheme, where the then-major label created "sandboxes" of music and related content for developers to experiment with, promising easier and fairer licensing for the best ideas that resulted.There are startup incubator or accelerator schemes in the worlds of television (Turner Broadcasting'sMedia CampandBBC Worldwide's Labs) and newspapers (the New York Times'TimeSpace), while Bloomberg has launched a $75m venture capital fund,Bloomberg Beta.In the UK, meanwhile, the Technology Strategy Board'sIC tomorrowprogramme has been running contests for startups to pitch to music, TV, book publishing and games rightsholders. And then there's Pearson, with itsCatalyststartup accelerator programme.Launched earlier this year, it invited educational technology (EdTech for short) startups to apply for one of six places on a three-month pilot programme, with each place addressing a specific challenge within Pearson's business. Examples: health profession simulations, massive open online courses (MOOCs) and tools to identify student cheating."It's a slightly different approach to what people have done traditionally. We looked internally for challenges in the business that we knew could be addressed by partnering from the outside," says Diana Stepner, head of future technologies at Pearson.More than 200 companies applied, with six chosen in June to start the scheme: mobile and web learning platform VLinks Media; science education website Spongelab; educational site Ace Learning Company; student-focused academic site ClassOwl; e-reading website ActivelyLearn; and big-data startup Full Stack Data Science.The six startups are now on the three-month pilot, building out the apps and services to address the specific challenges identified by Pearson, while also jumping on conference calls once or twice a week with different teams within the company to learn about the business."We want to make sure they have as many opportunities to connect with groups within Pearson as possible," says Stepner. "The startups all have a good understanding of the technical side of things, but we found them well rounded in the business aspects too. We want to help them see other opportunities across Pearson internationally."Stepner says that applicants for Catalyst came from around the world, including Japan and Latin America. However, it's notable that of the six chosen for the accelerator, five are from the US and one from Canada. Why wasn't the global nature of the applications reflected in the final six startups?"It's a really good question. We had expected more interest from the UK for example: we would have thought one of the startups might have come from here," says Stepner, although she points to ClassOwl as an example of a US-based startup that has a development studio in Bucharest to show that the selection is more global than it may appear.Catalyst is part of a wider strategy by Pearson to open its doors to technology startups. ItsPlug &amp; Playscheme to launch APIs for some of its key publishing brands, including Penguin Classics, DK and Pearson Education's "Brilliant" book series, has been running for some time.Stepner says that Plug &amp; Play and Catalyst have both already proved their worth in terms of business benefits for Pearson, just from the increased exposure the company's staff are getting to new startups, let alone the actual apps and services that may result."It's partly the speed: for us to see how quickly a startup can get something done helps us to reinvigorate the way we do projects," says Stepner."Partnering with a startup and working on their timeframes really energises people to pick up the pace and see what's possible. And the way startups see an opportunity, with almost a laser focus on being able to achieve an objective, I think that's really valuable for us as well."Stepner is enthusiastic about what the 200+ applications to Catalyst says about the wider educational technology sector, with a growing number of startups – including plenty run by people who have only recently left the educational system themselves."What's fascinating is a lot of this is coming from students. They've grown up programming and having these digital skills, they're setting up startups within their college and university years, and when they graduate they're continuing with those," she says."It's a rising trend: they're in school, have identified some way they can make the school experience better, so they're starting companies, graduating and then sharing that knowledge. These are kids that are going to change the world."
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Xbox One records the last five minutes of your gameplay | Eurogamer.netThis week the video capturing capabilities of the next-gen consoles are in the spotlight:Xbox One is able to automatically record the last five minutes of your gameplay, less time than Sony will automatically store on PlayStation 4.Microsoft Studios creative director Ken Lobb detailed the exact amount at San Diego Comic-Con while discussing the new Xbox One version of Killer Instinct (thanks, Gamespot).It was previously reported that Sony would allow players to edit their last 15 minutes of gameplay on PlayStation 4.So to re-cap, both machines automatically and continually record a section of gameplay so that you can share your crazy hijinks with pals – but Xbox One records five minutes and, after some clarification, PS4 does 15 minutes. It's going to be interesting to see if and how this matters when the machines launch...Steam to be taken to court over pre-owned later this year | MCVThe Federation of German Consumer Organisations hopes to have Steam in court by the end of the year.The body is challenging Steam's refusal to alter its terms of service following last year's ruling from the European Court of Justice that European consumers should have the right to re-sell their digital software purchases.This could be important, especially if other consumer rights groups throughout Europe make similar moves.When Games Make Break-Ups Even More Difficult | KotakuWe all know how social media has made relationship break-ups more complicated, but what about socially connected games?A number of memories come to mind. There's a friend who refused to delete the alternate profile of his ex's avatar on his own Xbox, always seemingly pausing at the select screen—letting the character model wave and smile at him before snapping himself out of it and picking his own profile. I don't know if he ever got rid of it, even though I don't think that ex ever used his Xbox again. It reminds me a little of a different friend kept an ex's profile on Super Smash Bros, but he wouldn't let anyone else use it. Both of these dabble with the question of what to do with stuff that used to belong to a significant other: get rid of it or keep it? And what does it mean when you choose either of those options?Messhof's Nidhogg finally releasing this year with new moves and online play | IndieGames.comFor the last year, the brilliant indie sword-fighting game Nidhogg has only been playable at gaming events – now it's to get an actual release, with some intriguing updates:Previously, a standard game of NIDHOGG saw two fencers trying to get to their respective ends of a castle, fighting off endless versions of themselves via stabbing, sword-throwing, fisticuffs, and sometimes a smart and cowardly flee. While the premise is still largely the same, the addition of several new maneuvers throws most old strategies out the window. The most significant game-changer is the dive kick, executable at any time when in the air. Defenders can attempt to slice their opponent with proper spacing, but they no longer have an advantage with swift thrusting alone. In addition to the dive kick, players can also grab ledges, roll underneath opponents, crawl on the ground, and even wall jump. Hand-to-hand combat has become an intense race to snap the neck of one's opponent, resulting in a satisfying crackle of pixels that lie motionless on the floor.Elements Of Video Game Style | GameDev.netThis is a really interesting primer on game design, updated since its original 2000 posting:The design of video games has rarely been a subject of formal study. All too often today games are designed simply by looking at whatever is popular at the moment and copying it. The recent interest in classic video games has a basis in something more than mere nostalgia. There is a feeling that something has been lost in game design, even while graphics and sound are reaching new heights.What follows is an approachable guide to the basics of building atmosphere, agency and challenge into games.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
The Daily Mail's preening claim to have "won" the battle against internet pornography had an appropriate sidebar beside it online, showing multiple celebrities wearing teeny bikinis and flaunting their curves. Such is the contradiction of David Cameron's "war" on porn on the web.Cameron's crusade conflates two things. First are the child abuse images, which anyone sensible wants removed: they are records of exploitation of children who could not consent, who are being abused, and show criminal acts whose viewing criminalises others.Plenty of work goes into wiping out child abuse images, and making it impossible to access, through schemes such as BT's Cleanfeed, Microsoft's PhotoDNA, and Google's own photo-hashing service. But eradicating child abuse images would really involve controlling peer-to-peer technology or password-protected forums.Second is the much more complex area of pornography that isn't illegal, but to which the easy access afforded by the internet causes concern for any parent – and anyone interested in the sort of society children are growing up in.Anarticle in the Times Educational Supplement by Chloe Combiprovides a sober perspective, describing how easily accessible pornography is making secondary school pupils think pubic hair is ugly on women, sexting is normal and that porn film narratives and scenarios depict a version of real life to be aspired to.Move on from the Mail Online or Page 3 and you arrive at American websites, which see a sexual continuum between the ages of 13 (when you're allowed to create profiles on Facebook, Twitter and so on, to meet US legislation – though in fact many children ignore that – and 18, when viewing "porn" suddenly becomes legal. Yet any parent knows that things change enormously between those ages.If Cameron really wanted to stop online pornography he could ask ISPs to ban YouTube, Blogger and Tumblr. The latter, recently acquired by Yahoo, is trying totamp down the visibility of porn on its network– which is reckoned to extend to millions of blogs.Blogger was recentlythe target of a crackdown by Google, which didn't want the "adult" "blogs" on there to be selling adverts for off-site adult services. Because it's fine to be an adult blog (behind nothing more difficult to evade than a confirm-your-age button) and use Google adverts.It's tempting to consider blocking YouTube at home, because it simply has no boundaries, and boundaries matter when you're a parent. There is no easy way of preventing an eight-year-old, alone with a tablet and browsing YouTube for games videos from landing on some of the very adult-themed videos that are often linked to them – and it isn't possible to supervise a child all the time.For the internet service providers, meanwhile, Cameron's crusade is guaranteed bad news. You could start a sweepstake now for the first article saying "Internet Porn Filter FAILURE!" – pointing the finger at an ISP for failing to be filter comprehensively enough. And then after that there will be another child killer who has somehow managed to "evade" the filters, because the only way to stop someone really determined to access peer-to-peer systems or well-hidden sites is to cut off the internet.It's been 18 months since Cameron last hassled the internet industry over this, and it's sure to happen again, because new internet signups – who will now have to actively disable filters for pornography – happen slowly. In the meantime, we're left with software filters, which are expensive, and hard to make work on newer devices such as tablets and smartphones. Or parental intervention, which is difficult and time-consuming.  Monday marked an important day in the battle – but not a game-changing one.
Wikipediais expanding its major new 'open data' initiative, expanding tools that allow developers to use its content on other websites and simplifying its editing tools to appeal to more mainstream web users.The 12-year-old website is also planning more outreach work to educate teachers and students, as well as those in museums and libraries, how to use the site.Speaking in London on Monday, co-founderJimmy Walessaid Wikipedia was part "of the edutech gold rush" and that students would learn not by reading but by editing the site. New editing tools being introduced later this year will make editing simpler, he said, and encourage more people to get involved in editing articles.Wales, who has been advising the UK government onopen access, said there had been huge progress in the understanding of sourcing material online. "This is a community that will digest and then repurpose information to people in interesting ways – we have a lot to teach on that front … Communities are working to encode more of this information in machine readable ways."Most public institutions now interact positively with the site, he claimed. "Eight years ago I got a nasty letter from a British museum over an image in an Wikipedia article … the new way to react, as a public institution devoted to sharing knowledge, is that you need to engage. Wikipedia is the information platform of choice for the entire world – from a business perspective they are much better off making sure they have well written information on Wikipedia."Wales said he wanted developers to have a better understanding of the site's tools, including an extensive API (the system through which external developers can use the site's content) and through community of approved bots, which perform automated tasks including signing an editor's name at the end of a post and correcting common errors made by autocorrect.Wikipedia's editing tools will be simplified to attract a broader, less techie audience. Photograph: Boris Roessler/EPAOther projects underway include improved editing in the mobile version of the site, which is being worked on by a team in San Francisco, and a notifications system called "Flow" for editors. Wales said the new user interface for editing tools would encouragemore diverse editors, broadening its community beyond the largely young, computer-centric and 80% to 90% male editors that dominate its volunteer base.Wikipedia was the eight most visited website in the US in July, according to web measurement firm comScore. Wikipedia's own data shows the site records 21.3bn monthly page views globally, has 30.7m pages in English and publishes in 286 languages.Wales described Wikipedia's mission to be "the sum of all human knowledge available to all in their own language" and said it had worked with regional partners in the developing world to provide Wikipedia Zero, a low-bandwidth mobile version of the site that would be free to users.About 410 million people now have access toWikipedia Zero, he claimed. "It is our mission to provide free access to everyone in the world. This is one of the most exciting things we are doing and we're only just getting started."Wikipedia is run almost entirely by volunteers along with other free-to-access websites including Wikimedia and Wikidata. The small, not-for-profit Wikimedia Foundation employs 150 staff to manage the site's servers, administration and legal issues.Wikipedia's annual conferenceWikimaniawill be held in London for the first time next year, where about 10,000 fans, editors and volunteers are expected to attend the free event at the Barbican in August 2014.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamKorea grapples with massive personal data theft, regulatory mess &gt;&gt; The Korea HeraldIT experts have suggested an array of factors behind those large-scale security lapses, with some blaming government-led overregulation such as the "public key certificate" system that is supposed to prevent such security breaches.Many Korean websites depend on Internet Explorer's cumbersome "ActiveX" platform, posing another risk factor. KAIST professor Lee Min-hwa said, "ActiveX is a program that momentarily disarms the computer to download codes from an outside source, which can be abused by hackers seeking to plant malicious codes."Lee, one of the key patrons of President Park Geun-hye's signature science and technology-based "creative economy," said that Korea's dependence on the ActiveX-based public key certificate system created a "black hole" in cyber security.Between 18.6m and 105m user details have been leaked since January 2008 (it's impossible to know if there's overlap between the largest, Auction in January 2008, and the others). South Korea has a population of 50m - so probably plenty of overlap.How do smartphones reveal shoppers' movements? &gt;&gt; The EconomistFor several months Nordstrom tested a system that tracked the movements of people carrying Wi-Fi-enabled smartphones and other devices as they wandered through 17 of its stores or merely walked by. The firm posted a public notice of the monitoring, promptinga report by a television station in Dallas&amp;nbsp;in May, at which point the retailer pulled the plug. Then theNew York Timespicked up the story, igniting a privacy debate about passive monitoring via Wi-Fi and other technologies. The system used by Nordstrom and several other firms, provided by Euclid Analytics, can precisely track the movements of individual phones, even though they never actually connect to a Wi-Fi network. How does it work?Helping robots become more touchy-feely, literally: Paper-thin e-skin responds to touch by lighting up &gt;&gt; Science DailyA research team led by Ali Javey, UC Berkeley associate professor of electrical engineering and computer sciences, has created the first user-interactive sensor network on flexible plastic. The new electronic skin, or e-skin, responds to touch by instantly lighting up. The more intense the pressure, the brighter the light it emits."We are not just making devices; we are building systems," said Javey, who also has an appointment as a faculty scientist at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. "With the interactive e-skin, we have demonstrated an elegant system on plastic that can be wrapped around different objects to enable a new form of human-machine interfacing."…In addition to giving robots a finer sense of touch, the engineers believe the new e-skin technology could also be used to create things like wallpapers that double as touchscreen displays and dashboard laminates that allow drivers to adjust electronic controls with the wave of a hand."I could also imagine an e-skin bandage applied to an arm as a health monitor that continuously checks blood pressure and pulse rates," said study co-lead author Chuan Wang, who conducted the work as a post-doctoral researcher in Javey's lab at UC Berkeley.Should be in mass manufacturing by, oh, 2020 or so. (Thanks @HotSoup for the link.)A lean and concise Microsoft! &gt;&gt; Joy Of TechNeed to understand that Ballmer memo? Here you go.Google settles vanity-searcher's class-action lawsuit for $8.5m &gt;&gt; MediapostGoogle has agreed to settle a class-action lawsuit alleging that it leaked the names of search users via referrer headers, according to court papers filed on Friday in San Jose, Calif.The settlement agreement calls for Google to donate $8.5m to four schools and nonprofit organizations -- Harvard Law's Berkman Center for Internet and Society, Stanford Law's Center for Internet and Society, the MacArthur Foundation, and AARP.Google also agreed to revise its privacy policy. The settlement agreement does not appear to require Google to change any of its practices.Exactly the same lawsuit that Chris Soghoianbrought in 2010 on behalf of the ACLU(PDF) to the US FTC.Remember that girl who got burned by her Galaxy S III? Third party battery to blame &gt;&gt; Android BeatWell, the phone was sent in for inspection, the tests have been concluded, and it turns out the girl is at fault. She purchased a third-party battery for her phone, according tothe Swiss publication Le Matin. In other words, Samsung is off the hook.Korea's FTC acquits Google of antitrust charges &gt;&gt; Search Engine Watch (#SEW)The antitrust charges were originally brought about in 2011 by South Korea's two largest search operators, NHN Corp. and Daum Communications Corp.The dismissal is no doubt a relief for Google, which said at the time of the complaint that "Android is an open platform, and carriers and partners are free to decide which applications and services to include."The FTC agreed in this case, stating mobile users can easily find alternatives to the Google search engine through downloadable applications provided by NHN and Daum."Before and after Google's push to force the preload of the Android operating system, its domestic market share remains almost unchanged at around 10%, while Naver (the portal of NHN) still maintains more than 70%," an FTC official said. "This does not satisfy the competition-restricting condition, which is one of the major issues of this case."Wonder if that's domestic market share measured across both desktop and mobile? It's unclear from the story. Or does Samsung preload other search engines on its Android devices in Korea?Job Description - SR. DIRECTOR INDUSTRIAL DESIGN - WEARABLES &gt;&gt; Motorola JobsLook who's hiring:Specifically, the Industrial Design Team collaborates closely with our internal work partners to create compelling, usable and innovative products that define our brand with over a million consumers worldwide. The wearables design team will lead the establishment of our brand in the massive competitive and growing space of wearable connected products.Reporting to the Senior Vice President of CXD, the Senior Director of Industrial Design will define and execute design strategies for all Motorola wearable devices.Desired skills include "15+ years of work experience in design of tech, consumer product and/or apparel".The Incredible Shrinking Motorola &gt;&gt; Into MobileUseful graphic by Kelly Hodgkins showing how Motorola's headcount has changed since Google acquired it.Foreign game console ban to be lifted &gt;&gt; China DailySources from China's Ministry of Culture confirmed on Thursday that the country is about to allow foreign game console companies to sell products in China if they register in Shanghai's new free trade zone, but denied lifting a decade-long ban on the video game hardware market in the country anytime soon.Two officials from the ministry confirmed the accuracy of a South China Morning Post report. The story, which was published on Wednesday, quoted sources that if foreign companies agreed to register in the new free trade zone in Shanghai, they would be allowed to promote and sell their products on the Chinese mainland.But before they start selling, foreign gaming companies have to seek approval for specific products from related regulators because the Chinese government wants to make sure the content is not too violent or politically sensitive, the SCMP report said.…Because of fears of the potential harm to the physical and mental development of the young, seven Chinese ministries collectively banned the manufacture, sale and import of game consoles in China in 2000.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
The team that createdPikmin 3has done something wonderful. The game – a tale of diminutive aliens stranded on a distant planet – is filled with character. It has a lightness to its pace and never feels intimidating. And yet at its heart is a nuanced real-time strategy game.This is a genre that generally offers elaborate battlefield simulators – stern creations, swathed in jargon, that are highly demanding of players. In sharp contrast,Pikmin 3is a cheerful tale of befriending the titular local life forms, which can be controlled in groups to build, forage, fight and much else. And, as with an RTS, the player's task is to juggle priorities on the fly – appointing different Pikmin to various tasks across the playing area.This third game in the series offers a wider range of distinctively talented Pikmin and tasks than its predecessors, and a trio of lead characters who allow for cunning puzzle solving. The controls can be a little erratic at times, but that does little to impair this glorious addition to the Wii U's game library.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad devices.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. There's a separate roundup for Android apps, which waspublished earlier in the day.For now, read on for this week's iOS selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest iPhone and iPad appsposts).Google Maps (Free)Google Maps used to be part of the iOS software, before Apple and Google's licensing deal ran out. It then re-emerged as a native iPhone app, and has now finally gone universal to include the iPad too. Its tablet-friendly design complements the usual Google Maps features, including Street View.iPadCurious George's Town (£1.99)I've been waiting for a children's game that tries to teach kids to save their virtual currency rather than spending it. There are no in-app purchases in this FarmVille-style town-building game. Instead, children save their virtual coins, and earn more by doing chores in the real world set by their parents.iPhone / iPadPiano Genius (Free)Part of an emerging crop of music-education apps, this aims to teach you to play the piano using a virtual on-screen keyboard, social gaming features and a catalogue of more than 400 songs – from piano standards (Chopsticks) to classical (Bach, Mozart, Beethoven) to pop and rock (Katy Perry, Led Zeppelin, Green Day).iPhone / iPadSalvador Dali – The Official App (Free)Yes, even long-deceased painters have official apps nowadays. The subtitle for this one is 'Pictures, Books, Movies and Paintings', which covers the content nicely: Dali's paintings take centre stage, but his books and films also feature prominently. In-app purchases are used to buy the various works' digital forms.iPhone / iPadXero Personal (Free)No surrealism or sliced-up eyeballs here, just personal finance. Thankfully. It's an iPhone app from finance firm Xero for managing your money, covering bank account and credit card transactions, tying into the existing Xero Personal service.iPhoneSky Gamblers: Cold War (£2.99)iPhone / iPadThe Sky Gamblers games have won a firm following on iOS, not least because of their spectacular graphics (cue "console-quality" mention in the App Store listing for this new one). As before, this is a dogfighting game with a mixture of solo and multiplayer modes, tied deeply into Apple's Game Center, iCloud and AirPlay technologies to store progress and play on a TV if desired.The Wind in the Willows (Free)The tale of Ratty, Mole, Badger and Mr Toad gets a new retelling for iPad, with Stephen Fry providing (some) voice narration, with animation and music accompanying the text – which is faithful to the original according to developers Beyond the Story.iPadTapestry (Free)Billed as "safe, simple photo sharing for seniors and their families", this is a photo-sharing app aimed at older, less tech-savvy users (because it's worth making clear that there are plenty of older tech-savvy people too, who'll be fine with Facebook, Instagram and the rest).iPhone / iPadMontessori Math : Add &amp; Subtract Large Numbers (£2.99)With the school summer holidays having just kicked off in the UK, parents looking for good educational apps to keep their kids' brains ticking over for the next six weeks have plenty to choose from. Developer Les Trois Elles' latest release focuses on specific maths tasks, with three activities and games, and lots of thought put into how children learn.iPhone / iPadPac-Man Dash! (Free)If you think about it, the original Pac-Man was one of the first endless-runner games, given its hero's mission to keep moving and guzzling pills. Now, in the era of Canabalt and other side-scrolling endless runners, Pac-Man is evolving too. The game features more than 70 missions and lots of power-ups.iPhone / iPadLeiths Kitchen Wizard (£2.99)This aims to be a helpful app for cooks, providing timed recipes; conversions of weights, temperatures and volumes; and a glossary of "classic" cooking terms. A quiz aims to help build your knowledge in the kitchen too.iPhoneParis Guide by National Geographic (£2.99)One of a set of new travel-guide apps from National Geographic, this provides a selection of walks and tourist hotspots for the French capital, with photos of key landmarks, an itinerary-building section and useful tools like exchange rates, measurement conversion tables and (if you're roaming on data) live weather.iPhone / iPadPlants vs Zombies Comics (Free)Plants vs Zombies was a big hit with mobile gamers, and a sequel is on the way soon. In the meantime, there's this app from Dark Horse Comics selling digital issues of the official Plants vs Zombies comics. Two issues are available so far: one is included for free, with the next costing 69p via in-app purchase.iPhone / iPadBounty Arms (£2.99)This 3D side-scrolling action game startled me with its graphics – it uses the Unreal Engine – with gameplay looking to match. It sees you taking on the role of an intergalactic bounty hunter, battling your way through 10 missions.iPhone / iPadDollarbird (£0.69)iPhone has seen plenty of personal finance apps, and a fair few innovative calendar apps. Now developer Halcyon MD has combined the two categories with Dollarbird. It gets you to enter your spending in a calendar-based format, tracking your habits over time and helping you (hopefully) start to save.iPhoneShout Science! (Free)This is a nice idea: an app aimed at 7-11 year-olds that turns three historical stories of scientific breakthroughs in Europe into comic-strips. Animation, interactivity and sound are added into the mix to hold children's attention as they learn about the Scientific Revolution.iPadKanvas (Free)Latest in an extremely crowded line of apps hoping to get iPhone owners making their own memes, then sharing them. Here, that involves adding text, stickers, painting and sounds to pre-set backgrounds, with in-app packs sold to provide more personalisation.iPhonePotluck - Links with Friends (Free)Lots of interest in Potluck at the moment online: it's the work of Branch media, a company set up by some of Twitter's founders to launch new products. In this case, it's a social bookmarking service (and now app) to "hang about and talk about cool things you find online".iPhoneLeisure Suit Larry: Reloaded (£2.99)Was 2013 really crying out for the return of Leisure Suit Larry and his lounge-lizard persona? Seemingly so. This is a new version of the 1987 Leisure Suit Larry adventure with beefed-up graphics, new dialogue and a new musical score.iPhone / iPadTimeQuote (£2.99)Finally, an app for professionals: "journalists, video producers, directors, broadcasters, one-man-band camera operators" to be specific. It's a way to log key quotes or moments when they happen, so you can find them easily later on when going through your footage. It's a specific niche, but one that benefits from being filled.iPadThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
Areportby the National Institute of Economic and Social Research (NIESR) appear to show that thegovernment has underestimated the sectorby as much as 40%, counting 187,000 active UK companies compared to the 270,000 identified by the NIESR.Crucially, this is data funded by Google, which clearly has an interest interest in promoting digital businesses who will inevitably end up being part of an internet ecosystem at which Google is at the centre.The real target here is the government's own system for gathering industrial data, the Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) codes which were first introduced in 1948 to measure the post-war economy. That we are still using that system in 2013 rightly demands some questioning, and so the Google-funded project duly employed at the trickery of big data to compose what they are argue are far more relevant statistics.Average mean company revenue of £1.89mThe report claims that active digital companies have mean revenues of £1.89m, and median revenues of £77.1k, with around 40% of them based in IT and computer-related sectors, and 10.8% in telecoms."It's quite an important subject just to get a handle on how big the digital economy is, and what it actually means," said UK business secretary Vince Cable at Monday's launch. "With cement, cars, steel, you have a reasonable idea of what's actually being produced. But the digital economy is so elusive, the numbers are difficult to get your head round."Cable stopped short of saying the existing SIC system is outdated and needs to change, but acknowledged the problems posed by the fact that the digital economy "isn't a sector in a meaningful sense" when trying to measure it."It's disruptive and new, and most importantly, it's all-pervasive, with major impacts on services, manufacturing and all sectors," he said.Gathering the dataGrowth Intelligence's data starts with 3.07m UK-registered companies, then pulls in more information from other public resources – such as patent filings – as well as mentions of companies on websites. It then assigns each to one of 145 sectors and 38 principle product groups."Most public statistics focus on industries, like the ICT and digital content industries. We've tried to go one better than that and look not just at the industries out there, but also at the outputs that they produce: the products and services," said Max Nathan, senior research fellow at NIESR.Digital disrupting every sectorThere was some initial scepticism among the journalists present that NIESR appeared to have included architecture and photography, but Growth Intelligence's chief executive Tom Gatten added that the research distinguishes between digital and non-digital companies within the same industry sectors."An architecture company whose product is a building wouldn't be included, because their primary product type is something physical," said Gatten."If, however, they are designing the CAD software that is used by other architectural companies, the thing they're getting the money for is the software, and that's what we classify as digital."The report also aims to include digital startups too small and/or new to show up in the official SIC-based figures, such as companies that don't yet pay VAT, or which have provided no SIC information in their Companies House registration.Among its conclusions are that while the digital economy has lower average revenues per company than non-digital sectors, the median digital firm has higher revenues and revenue growth than the median non-digital company.An important caveat here, though, is that only companies that are declaring revenues are counted for this comparison, which may count out a number of those new technology startups who have yet to bring in any income.Digital economy: 11% of UK jobsFrom a policy viewpoint, the report suggests that under Growth Intelligence's metrics, the digital economy accounts for 11% of UK jobs, rather than 5% under the SIC system.It also claims that digital economy companies are on average 9.8 years old, as opposed to 10.2 years for companies in other sectors. The inclusion of defence, space and aviation companies is likely to be pushing up this average.Funding for tech outside LondonNIESR's report also offers data on the spread of digital economy companies around the UK, emphasising that while London remains a key hub, there are notable clusters in Manchester, Birmingham, Bristol, Brighton, Aberdeen, Middlesbrough and other cities."Some people outside London get a bit irritated when they just hear about Tech City being the sole representative of the British digital economy," said Cable."There is at least as important activity in Media City in Manchester, and some very interesting and rapidly growing digital clusters in Bristol, Cambridge, Aberdeen, Middlesbrough, Gateshead and others."Cable talked about 20-22 digital clusters across the UK: "all of which are growing, and all of which are interesting", before suggesting there is still a need for better ways of measuring their growth."There is a feeling that there is a lack of appreciation of the extent to which the UK economy is regionally diverse. One way we're trying to help that is with instruments like the Regional Growth Fund," said Cable, in response to a question about this."What I want to do is develop the concept of a cluster of clusters. [Tech City CEO] Joanna Shields is very keen not to see Tech City in a parochial sense, but to see it as a UK phenomenon, and to build on the strengths of other parts of the UK. And I'd like to build that with her."International standardsCable also hinted at more work to be done to gauge how the UK's digital economy is growing compared with other countries, using new methods of data analysis."It is useful when trying to understand what's going on to have sensible numbers," he said."We do need clear international agreed standards in order to understand just how important this area of activity is, relative to other countries and relative to the past."
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day.For now, read on for this week's Android selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest Android appsposts). It's a heavy games week this week, hopefully there'll be a better balance with non-games releases next week.Biophilia (£8.49)It took a while, but Björk's Biophilia album-app has finally made the leap from iOS to Android. As before, it offers an individual "mini-app" for every song on her last album, with a mixture of games, creativity and musicmaking tools to explore the sounds of Biophilia.Tinder (Free)Tinder made its name on iPhone as a location-based dating app that was hugely popular among college students. Can it repeat the success on Android (and, for that matter, in the UK?) The app shows you people nearby who might be a match, then lets you text-chat to them before deciding whether to meet.Leiths Kitchen Wizard (£2.99)This aims to be a helpful app for cooks, providing timed recipes; conversions of weights, temperatures and volumes; and a glossary of "classic" cooking terms. A quiz aims to help build your knowledge in the kitchen too.Gentlemen! (£2.99)Described as a "Victorian era head-to-head arcade battle for tablets", this two-player game sees your dapper duellists hurling knives, bombs and even homing pigeons at one another in a fight to the death. One of the best share-the-device multiplayer games I've seen on Android.Team Red Cross (Free)This is an app for the US, since it comes from the American Red Cross rather than its British division. It aims to get more people volunteering to help victims of fires, floods, storms, and other disasters, with the app providing details of volunteer jobs before they arrive, and options to share details with friends on social networks.Super Mega Worm (£0.65)On iOS, this is definitely the best in the giant-worm-swallowing-everything-in-its-path game genre. You play "the Great Death Worm, Wojira", chomping humans and machines through 24 levels while growing ever more fearsome.Yarrly (Free)Lots of press already this week for Yarrly, which styles itself as an "anonymous, remixable photo app" where you take a photo, then take a photo of your reaction to that photo, add captions and share to social networks. A meme-creator, in other words.Pac-Man Dash! (Free)If you think about it, the original Pac-Man was one of the first endless-runner games, given its hero's mission to keep moving and guzzling pills. Now, in the era of Canabalt and other side-scrolling endless runners, Pac-Man is evolving too. The game features more than 70 missions and lots of power-ups.Zumba Dance (£3.25)The Zumba dance craze has made its way to Android in this motion-activated fitness app. It sees on-screen instructors telling you what to shake and when, with licensed music from the likes of LMFAO, Pitbull and Sean Paul. There are three default fitness classes to try, as well as the option to build your own classes.Robot Unicorn Attack 2 (Free)More endless running (and jumping) with this sequel to Robot Unicorn Attack, which became a cult hit thanks in part to its music. The sequel adds more customisation and power-ups, including the ability to buy new songs for the soundtrack.Digisocial (Free)Digisocial is the latest messaging app hoping to catch on with Android owners. In this case the messages can be voice, text and photos, with a focus as much on meeting new people as communicating with existing friends.Deep Dungeons of Doom (Free)This pixelly-retro action game has been a critical hit on iOS and the Ouya console alike. Now it's available on Android, getting you to plunge down dungeons fighting and looting in a touchscreen-friendly format.Le Vamp (£0.63)Another characterful indie game here from High Voltage Software, and more running, as you guide Le Vamp safely to his crypt home while keeping a few steps ahead of an angry mob. Stylish graphics make it stand out from the herd.Squeebles Times Tables 2 (£1.49)This is part of developer KeyStageFun's series of Squeebles education apps for children. Multiplication is the focus here, with six game modes covering the 1 to 12 times tables (plus 13, 14 and 15 for adventurous kids). Parents and teachers get a password-protected area of the app to monitor progress, too.The Walking Dead: Assault (£1.99)Based on the Walking Dead comic books, this is a strategy game viewed from an isometric perspective that sees you rescuing survivors, collecting supplies and striving not to get gnawed by the zombie hordes.Stay Alight (Free)Already causing oohs and aahs from appreciative Android gamers for its graphics, this offers 60 levels of physics-puzzler action as you hunt down and destroy green microbes trying to take over the world.Bounty Arms (£3.20)More whizzy visuals in an Android game, in what's a good week for showing Google-powered devices can hold their own with what iOS has to offer. It's a 3D platform-adventure based on the Unreal Engine.Jack Lumber (£2.59)Another game, this one focused on its hero, "the supernatural lumberjack who hates trees, loves animals, and hates trees" (yes, the double-mention is intentional). The gameplay sees you chopping logs by swiping your finger, but with slower strategy rather than fast Fruit Ninja-style reflexes.True Skate (£1.28)If you've ever played with a finger-skateboard in the real world, this game may be for you. It sees you flicking and dragging to guide your virtual skateboard around the environment, pulling tricks along the way. An extra skatepark is sold via in-app purchase.SourcesPro (£1.25)Finally, something fun if you're feeling visually creative yourself: an app to "to combine simple geometric constructs (waves and repeating patterns) in various ways" to make images for saving and sharing. With a bit of practice, the results look very nifty indeed.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
In one single moment, I realised that Infinity is, quite probably, a work of genius. I was at a Disney demo event in London, exploring the Toy Box mode, a vast creative pleasure dome where you use dozens of objects, buildings and tools to construct your own mini Disney adventures. I'd created a race track that culminated in a giant ramp, and now I was about to zoom across it in Cinderella's fantasy carriage – except I had tricked it out with monster truck wheels. Oh and the ramp went over the Epcot centre's Spaceship Earth. And it was being patrolled by Recognizers.And suddenly the possibilities just kept opening up ahead of me. I could drop in a stadium full of cheering people, or I could place a physics action on the finish line that would set off a firework display. Or I could plonk in a Phineas and Ferb water park, or … Or I could abandon the project and get my character to ride around on a shrunken elephant.Disney has always been about the realisation of childhood dreams, but too often the video games have fallen way short of the movies and theme parks as vehicles of imaginative desire. Infinity though, seems to beall aboutthe possibilities presented by these characters and stories. It is like mainlining Disney magic.Of course, most conversations about Infinity place it beside Skylanders, Activision's hugely successful role-playing adventure. That game added the ability to place dedicated action figures on a special USB-connected plinth, transferring their likenesses into the virtual environment. It was the perfect synergy of toy and game, and it has made Activision billions of dollars.Go figureInfinity uses the same basic recipe: you buy the game as a starter kit, with a USB plinth – or Infinity Base – and a collection of three figures: Captain Jack Sparrow from Pirates of the Caribbean, Mr Incredible from The Incredibles and Sulley from Monsters University. Each figure opens up a different narrative adventure within the game – and buying more Playsets gets you access to new quests. Plus, as in Skylanders, each action figure toy retains the player's data, so they're handy save files too.You can't belittle this element of Infinity – it's going to be huge. At launch there will be just over 20 figures to collect, each one beautifully designed (just like the Skylanders toys) with vibrant colours and neat, intricate details. The game's developer, Avalanche Software, has constructed a narrative in which it's the toy versions of the characters that come to life in the games, not the movie characters; so the action figures have a slightly angular appearance, reflecting the polygonal nature of their onscreen counterparts. It's a neat way of ensuring a subtle, exclusive relationship between the figures and the game. You can imagine the years of R&amp;D and marketing experience that went into all of this.But it doesn't stop there. Added to the figures are the power discs, which will be sold in packs of two for £3.99 and which can also be placed onto the Infinity Base: the hexagonal ones change the themed backgrounds in the Toy Box mode, while the circular ones can be placed under the action figures on the base to buff their powers or give them cool new gadgets. This is the true masterstroke really. The Playsets (which provide access to the Playset adventures in the game) retail for around £30 each and the figures go for £13, which puts both into the birthday/Christmas/special treat category for most kids. However, the power discs are within pocket money range – and can be placed on top of each other in the Base to unlock extra capabilities, so you'll want lots of them. As a seasoned toy manufacturer, Disney knows how to build licensed goods into spectrums of affordability – whatever a kid has, they can spend it here.How should we feel about that? Well, you know, collectibility has been a part of toys since the arrival of mass manufacturing. Our parents hoarded Corgi cars and Hornby trains sets, while my generation saw the dawn of cross-promotional play, with Star Wars figures, Transformers and themed Lego sets. These days the likes of Pokemon, Games Workshop and Moshi Monsters all use vertical branding to lock us into lucrative product relationships. It's tough for us parents, but this is the way merchandising works.Campus capersThe responsibility for Disney is in ensuring that each purchase provides plenty of playability. So in Infinity, when you buy a Playset from a new franchise, it opens up a dedicated adventure in the game. I got a quick play on the Monsters University Playset, which takes place on the campus and involves competing against educational rival, Fear Tech. This college is barely mentioned in the film, but it becomes the focus of the Playset story – and apparently this is how all the character adventures will pan out; exploring lesser-known facets of the universe rather than re-playing familiar movie plot lines. Although there are mission objectives, the environments are wide open, allowing exploration and experimentation. Sulley is able to pull pranks on his fellow students, for example, replacing newspaper stands with slingshot devices to fling them across the campus. It's diverting stuff with lots of hidden items, cut-scenes and fun dialogue. Apparently, each Playset adventure is around four to six hours long, although as they're open and explorable, 10 hours may be a better marker.Furthermore, progressing in the Playset adventures opens up new items and objects to use in the Toy Box mode, which for me is the main draw. Like LittleBigPlanet, this is an immensely powerful level creator, jammed with objects and characters. As well as generic items like trees, tracks and stadia, you can slap in a few Recognizers from Tron, some vehicles from Cars, Ramone's House of Body Art, the Disney castle … A simple set of menus placed on the shoulder buttons gives access to all the tools, as well as useful modifiers like an enlarging gun, and a Buzz Lightyear jetpack to get your around the landscape faster.Better still, there are special 'Creativi-toys', which can have physics behaviours and switches attached to them. Confetti cannons, slingshots and score boards can all be hooked up to create functioning traps and interactive elements.As in LittleBigPlanet, then, players may craft their own gadgets and mini-games. According to producer John Day, one coder has already managed the old LBP trick of producing a working calculator; others have manipulated the camera into different 2D views to create Disney-themed versions of Donkey Kong and Gauntlet. All the Toy Box environments allow up to four players to co-operate or compete – so if you want to build a pitch, drop in a scoring mechanic, and play football while galloping about on Bullseye, you can.All your creations can be saved and uploaded to a dedicated site; moderators will then play through, select the best and make them available to other players. Cleverly, the saves are cross-platform: if you build a great Toy Box world on PS3, someone else will be able to download and play it on their Xbox 360.Infinity, then, is a surprisingly ambitious project; a huge creative universe set to grow alongside its range of action figures and add-ons. As a parent, I know that my sons are going to bloody love this game, and I will have to manage their appetite for new stuff. That has been tough with Skylanders: my youngest has just saved his pocket money for four weeks to buy the Tree Rex character, while the Giants and Lightcore figures are well out of reach – both for him and usually for me as well. But as Minecraft addicts, I know they'll be fascinated by the Toy Box mode, which broadens the scope and playability beyond simple toy collecting. If we are entering an era of connected toys, this sense of value within the game element is going to become ever more important.And really, Infinity seems to be what Disney games should always have been – an imaginative platform that is genuinely for the whole family. It is filled with fun little ideas and features that my kids probably won't even get; for example, the Wreck It Ralph cherry bombs in the Toy Box mode that generate 2D sprite-based explosions like old school shoot-'em-ups. While most previous Disney games have reduced the franchises into conventional, boring action adventures, Infinity appears to be infused with the Pixar spirit of 'plussing' – adding new features, gestures and elements at every stage of production.This will probably be the best Disney game since the Mega Drive era, since the brilliant Castle of Illusion and Dave Perry's wonderful Aladdin tie-in. But standing as it does, at a crossroads between LittleBigPlanet, Skylanders and Minecraft, it has the potential to be much, much more.• Disney Infinity is due out on 20 August for PC, PS3, Wii, Wii U and Xbox 360Infinity and beyond: how much it will all costTo play Disney Infinity you'll need the game itself, an Infinity Base and at least one Playset. When the game is launched, a special starter pack will be available that combines the game and a Base with three Playsets: Pirates of the Caribbean, The Incredibles and Monsters University. Each Playset provides access to a dedicated adventure, based around that movie or franchise.The starter pack retails at between £50-60, and extra Playsets will be around £30. Currently, there are only two extra Playsets available – Cars and The Lone Ranger – but more will be released shortly. Each playset includes two action figures as well as the Playset disc that needs to be placed in the Base to unlock the dedicated content.Fans will also be able to buy separate action figures at around £13 each. These alone won't open up new Playsets in the game, but if you already have the relevant Playset then your new figure can hop into the game. For example, in the starter pack you have the Incredibles playset for free, but then you can buy the Mrs Incredible or Syndrome action figures and pop them on the base to switch roles.Finally, power discs can also be bought in packs of two for around £4. These add themed environments to the Toy Box modes as well as extra skills, vehicles and weapons to your characters in the Playset modes. Like packs of Moshi Monsters and Lego figures, the contents are hidden so players will no doubt end up swapping duplicate discs with friends.
The government plans to "drain the market" of child sexual abuse images online by launching acampaignwith the police and internet companies to pursue both the publishers and those who access the material, David Cameron has said.The prime minister proposed international collaboration between police and internet companies to pursue child abusers and those who viewed images and video online.He said that from the end of 2013 all new computers sold would have filters switched on by default, meaning consumers will have to opt in to access pornography. But he admitted that the government had yet to solve the problem of how households with one internet connection but multiple devices could balance the internet browsing choices of adults withrestricting access to children.Speaking to Jane Garvey on BBC Radio 4's Woman's Hour, Cameron denied that the initiative was timed to deflect criticism over lobbying by his election strategistLynton Crosby.He insisted that it was technically possible to actdespite doubts about enforcement. "This is an issue I have long been interested in but it has taken me some time to get my thinking right," he said. "What has changed … is that for too long we have taken the view that you can't do much about the internet, that it is ungoverned so there is nothing you can do."There is a triangle. We have to stop the people putting up the images, stop those accessing it and ask the internet companies to do better in stopping access to them."He said police were able to monitor peer-to-peer file sharing, where content is harder to track.Live streamingof abuse has also been identified as a developing problem.Cameron praised consumer internet companies such asTwitterand Google for increasing efforts to identify and remove links to offensive material and for introducing flash warnings to users who may inadvertently be clicking through to illegal material.But he admitted to anongoing rowwith internet service providers who, he said, were objecting to plans to filter content according to a "blacklist ofhorrific terms… they see it as a matter of free speech, but these images are illegal".The Child Exploitation and Online Protection agency (Ceop) had been given more powers and he had "sub-contracted someone from GCHQ to work in my office to help us understand how best to use the technology to stop this".Cameron said he had not seen images of child sexual abuse during the drafting of the plans but had had some material, which he described as evidence of a crime scene, described to him.
This weekend will see the fusion of art and technology with the second annual Digital Sizzle Art Hack event, taking place from Friday 26 July to Sunday 28 July. The event will be a step up from last year in every sense. Not only is it moving from an office space to the five-star boutiquehotel South Placein the City of London, but the subsequent exhibition, last year held at the Whitechapel gallery for one night only, will run for two weeks at the Barbican. As Bryce Keane, co-founder of3beards, the company behind Digital Sizzle, promises: "It's going to be the most gentrified hackathon that's ever happened."3beards formed two years ago when Keane and two others noticed a shortage of events for techies to congregate and network and so decided to run their own. Consequently, every Friday startups can network atSilicon Drinkabout, while the monthlyDon't Pitch Me, Bro!offers the chance for startups to pitch business ideas to 100 people for live feedback. It was after the Whitechapel gallery approached 3beards last year that the first Digital Sizzle took place, aiming to bring artists and techies together for the first event of its kind. Twenty-five of the final pieces were exhibited at the gallery. "The response was phenomenal," says Keane.The 48-hour hackathon encourages an intense atmosphere of co-operative creativity in which streams of data are transformed into artistic pieces. Last year, the final pieces included a machine that recreates the weather in Jakarta, necklaces made from a Twitter feed and a dress woven from data and pictures generated during London fashion week.This year, the brief is just as simple: "Turn data into something beautiful."thedigitalsizzle.com
PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)The Last Of Us(18+)PS3 (100)62 (5)Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition(7+)Xbox 360 (100)43 (3)Mario And Luigi: Dream Team Bros.(3+)3DS (100)24 (2)Animal Crossing: New Leaf(3+)3DS (100)65 (–)Dynasty Warriors 8(12+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (49)16 (6)Far Cry 3(18+)PS3 (43)Xbox 360 (47)PC (5)347 (–)Max Payne 3(18+)PS3 (53)Xbox 360 (47)PC (0)178 (11)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim - Legendary(18+)Xbox 360 (41)PS3 (29)PC (29)79 (4)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (27)VITA (11)Wii (6)4310 (9)Tomb Raider(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (43)PC (3)2011 (7)Call Of Duty: Black Ops Ii(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (39)Wii U (1)PC (1)3512 (12)Lego Batman 2: Dc Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (32)Wii (18)PS3 (15)3DS (14)5413 (8)Assassin's Creed Iii(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (40)3814 (17)Grand Theft Auto Iv(18+)Xbox 360 (65)PS3 (34)5615 (13)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)PS3 (42)Xbox 360 (36)VITA (21)PC (1)3416 (14)Luigi's Mansion 2(7+)3DS (100)1717 (–)Grand Theft Auto Episodes - Liberty City(18+)Xbox 360 (73)PS3 (27)PC (0)1918 (–)Red Dead Redemption: Goty(18+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (36)219 (20)Lego The Lord Of The Rings(12+)Xbox 360 (32)PS3 (22)Wii (22)DS (13)2420 (15)The Sims 3: Island Paradise (12+)PC (100)4UKIE Games Charts© compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Twitter is to introduce a tagging system to prevent child abuse images being posted on its service, which now sees millions of pictures posted among the 2bn tweets every five days.The intention is to introduce the system, which uses a Microsoft-developed industry standard called "PhotoDNA", later this year if possible.The move was revealed exclusively to the Guardian as the prime minister, David Cameron,steps up pressure on internet providers and particularly on search enginesto block access to images of child abuse online.Twitter's move has come independently of UK pressure. Microsoft and Facebook already use PhotoDNA to monitor images posted to the social network, Microsoft's Skydrive service and accessible via its Bing search engine.PhotoDNA works by producing a "hash" – a single number generated from the binary data of a picture or video, and some biometric information in the picture. The method still works even if the image is resized or altered.When an image is posted, its hash is compared against known images of child abuse which have been flagged by operations such as the UK's Internet Watch Foundation and the US's National Center for Missing &amp; Exploited Children's (NCMEC) Child Victim Identification Program. The latter found 17.3m images of abuse in 2011 – and since 2002 has reviewed more than 65m images and videos of child sexual exploitation reported by the authorities. However, the "hash" database is reckoned to be much smaller.Microsoft developed the system in 2009 with Dartmouth College in the US, and donated the technology to the NCMEC. Facebook began using it in 2011."One of the most exciting things that we're working on is implementing PhotoDNA," said Del Harvey, senior director of Twitter's Trust &amp; Safety team. "It's really fantastic that we're making progress on getting that in place. And it's good that others in the industry are working on it, or on implementing it, because this is one of those areas which is not about competition, it's about co-operation. We're trying to keep the user safe."Harvey worked on preventing child abuse before joining Twitter in 2008. She said that there are complications to implementing PhotoDNA on Twitter, based on the sheer scale and speed of the service. It is also complicated by the involvement of outside companies called Content Delivery Networks (CDNs), which store copies of data posted online at locations closer to users, so they can be downloaded more quickly."You think 'we'll just delete the image', but then you face the question of whether it's hosted on a CDN. In that case, how do you make sure it gets flushed out? What if there's a backlog of requests for images to delete? You start to wonder if these things really have to be this complicated just to delete an image – and the answer turns out to be yes, it really does have to be this complicated."Googlesaid in Junethat it has used a "hashing" technology to identify child abuse images online since 2008. It does not use PhotoDNA, but its system is compatible with it.
Apple says its Developer portal has been hacked and that some information about its 275,000 registered third-party developers who use it may have been stolen.The portal at developer.apple.com had been offline since Thursday without explanation, raising speculation among developers first that it had suffered a disastrous database crash, and then that it had been hacked.A Turkish security researcher,Ibrahim Balic, claims that he was behind the "hack" but insisted that his intention was to demonstrate that Apple's system was leaking user information. He posted avideo on Youtubewhich appears to show that the site was vulnerable to an attack, but adding "I have reported all the bugs I found to the company and waited for approval." A screenshot in the video showed a bug filed on 19 July - the same day the site was taken down - saying "Data leaks user information. I think you should fix it as soon as possible."The video appears to show developer names and IDs. However, a number of the emails belong to long-deprecated services, including Demon, Freeserve and Mindspring. The Guardian is trying to contact the alleged owners of the emails.Balic told the Guardian: "My intention was not attacking. In total I found 13 bugs and reported [them] directly one by one to Apple straight away. Just after my reporting [the] dev center got closed. I have not heard anything from them, and they announced that they got attacked. My aim was to report bugs and collect the datas [sic] for the purpose of seeing how deep I can go with it."Apple said in an email to developers late on Sunday night that "an intruder attempted to secure personal information of our registered developers… [and] we have not been able to rule out the possibility that some developers' names, mailing addresses and/or email addresses may have been accessed."It didn't give any indication of who carried out the attack, or what their purpose might have been. Apple said it is "completely overhauling our developer systems, updating our server software, and rebuilding our entire database [of developer information]."Some people reported that they had received password resets against their Apple ID - used by developers to access the portal - suggesting that the hacker or hackers had managed to copy some key details and were trying to exploit them.If they managed to successfully break into a developer's ID, they might be able to upload malicious apps to the App Store. Apple said however that the hack did not lead to access to developer code.The breach is the first known against any of Apple's web services. It has hundreds of millions of users of its iTunes and App Store e-commerce systems. Those systems do not appear to have been affected: Apple says that they are completely separate and remained safe.Apple's Developer portal lets developers download new versions of the Mac OS X and iOS 7 betas, set up new devices so they can run the beta software and access forums to discuss problems. A related service for developers using the same user emails and passwords, iTunes Connect, lets developers upload new versions of apps to the App Store. While developers could log into that service, they could not find or update apps and could not communicate with Apple.But if the hack provided access to developer IDs which could then be exploited through phishing attacks, there would be a danger that apps could be compromised. Apps are uploaded to the App Store in a completed form - so hackers could not download "pieces" of an existing app - and undergo a review before being made publicly available.High-profile companies are increasingly the target of increasingly skilful hackers. In April 2011, Sony abruptlyshut down its PlayStation Networkused by 77 million users and kept it offline for seven days so that it could carry out forensic security testing, after being hit by hackers - who have never been identified.It has also become a risk of business for larger companies and small ones alike. On Saturday, theUbuntu forums were hacked, and all of the passwords for the thousands of users stolen - although they were encrypted. On Sunday, the hacking collective Anonymous said thatit hacked the Nauruan government's website.On Sunday, the Apple Store, used to sell its physical products, was briefly unavailable - reinforcing suspicions that the company was carrying out a wide-ranging security check. The company has not commented on the reasons for the store going down.Marco Arment, a high-profile app developer,noted on his blogbefore Apple confirmed the hack that " I don't know anything about [Apple's] infrastructure, but for a web service to be down this long with so little communication, most 'maintenance' or migration theories become very unlikely."He suggested that the problem could either be "severe data loss" in which restoring from backups has failed - but added that the downtime "is pretty long even for backup-restoring troubles" - or else "a security breach, followed by cleanup and increases defenses".Of the downtime, he said "the longer it goes, especially with no statements to the contrary, the more this [hacking hypothesis] becomes the most likely explanation."
Every household in Britain connected to the internet will be obliged to declare whether they want to maintain access to online pornography, David Cameron will announce on Monday.In the most dramatic step by the government to crack down on the "corroding" influence of pornography on childhood, the prime minister will say that all internet users will be contacted by their service providers and given an "unavoidable choice" on whether to use filters.The changes will be introduced by the end of next year. As a first step, customers who set up new broadband accounts or switch providers would have to actively disable the filters by the end of this year.The moves will be announced by the prime minister in a speech to the NSPCC in which he will unveil a series of measures to reduce access to pornography with a particular focus on images of child sexual abuse. He will say:• The possession of "extreme pornography", which includes scenes of simulated rape, is to be outlawed.• The Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre (CEOP) is to draw up a blacklist of "abhorrent" internet search terms to identify and prevent paedophiles searching for illegal material.• All police forces will work with a single secure database of illegal images of children to help "close the net on paedophiles".In a separate move, Twitter is to introduce a tagging system to prevent such images being posted on its service. There are now millions of pictures posted among the 2bn tweets every five days. The intention is to introduce the system, which uses a Microsoft-developed industry standard called PhotoDNA, this year if possible.The prime minister's speech is designed to answer critics who accuse him of talking tough but failing to take action. In the most significant step he will outline detailed plans to limit access to pornography.The Daily Mail, which has been running a campaign to crack down on pornography online, reported that the prime minister will say: "By the end of this year, when someone sets up a new broadband account the settings to install family-friendly filters will be automatically selected. If you just click 'next' or 'enter', then the filters are automatically on."And, in a really big step forward, all the ISPs have rewired their technology so that once your filters are installed, they will cover any device connected to your home internet account. No more hassle of downloading filters for every device, just one-click protection. One click to protect your whole home and keep your children safe."Once those filters are installed, it should not be the case that technically literate children can just flick the filters off at the click of a mouse without anyone knowing. So we have agreed with industry that those filters can only be changed by the account holder, who has to be an adult. So an adult has to be engaged in the decisions."The prime minister will also announce that possession of "extreme pornography", which includes scenes of simulated rape, will be outlawed by the government. It is illegal to publish such pornography and illegal to possess it in Scotland but not in England and Wales.Cameron will say: "There are certain types of pornography that can only be described as 'extreme' … that is violent, and that depicts simulated rape. These images normalise sexual violence against women – and they are quite simply poisonous to the young people who see them."The Rape Crisis group welcomed the announcement by the prime minister, who will also say that the government is to legislate to ensure that videos streamed online are subject to the same rules as those sold in shops. Fiona Elvines, of Rape Crisis South London, said: "We are heartened by the government's announcement that it will close the loophole in existing extreme pornography legislation."The government today has made a significant step forward in preventing rapists using rape pornography to legitimise and strategise their crimes and, more broadly, in challenging the eroticisation of violence against women and girls."In some of his toughest language against the world's largest internet providers, the prime minister will warn them they face a duty to block "sick" people searching for illegal sites online. "I have a very clear message for Google, Bing, Yahoo and the rest. You have a duty to act on this – and it is a moral duty. If there are technical obstacles to acting on [search engines], don't just stand by and say nothing can be done; use your great brains to help overcome them."You're the people who have worked out how to map almost every inch of the Earth from space; who have developed algorithms that make sense of vast quantities of information. Set your greatest brains to work on this. You are not separate from our society, you are part of our society, and you must play a responsible role in it."The move by Twitter to introduce a new tagging system, revealed exclusively to the Guardian, has come independently of UK pressure.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple confirms Hopstop acquisition &gt;&gt; AllThingsDLooks like Apple's recent purchase of crowdsourced location data company Locationary was part of a twofer mapping acquisition. The company also acquired online transit-navigation appmaker HopStop. HopStop's area of cartographic expertise: Mass transit directions, something Apple's mapping service doesn't currently offer.Don't hold your breath for UK train times - they're expensive.The irrelevance of Microsoft &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansMicrosoft survived and thrived in the PC internet era, despite appearing to be irrelevant, by milking its victory in the previous phase of the technology industry. PC sales were 59m units in 1995 and rose to over 350m in 2012. Of course, that's now coming to an end.Though it looks like we've passed the tipping point, this process isn't going to be over quickly. PC sales aren't going to zero this year. But the replacement cycle, already at 5 years, will lengthen further and further, more and more apps will move to mobile or the cloud, and for many people the PC will end up like the printer or fax - vestigial reminders of an older way of doing things.Google and Microsoft spent a combined $3.4B on infrastructure last quarter &gt;&gt; GigaomGoogle and Microsoft both announced their latest quarterly earning on Thursday, and while neither was ideal from an investor point of view, both companies did invest large sums of money into building out their web infrastructure. Microsoft invested $1.79bn in "property and equipment" during its fiscal fourth quarter, while Google's second quarter saw it invest $1.61bn.Applespent $4.3bnon "property, plant and equipment" in the period from January to March. But mostly that goes into factories rather than servers.Amazon rejected as domain name after South American objections &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comA group of Latin American countries appears to have succeeded in an effort to block Amazon, the online retailer, from using .amazon as a new suffix for Internet addresses.A committee of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, an international governance group for the Internet, recommended this week that. amazon not be approved for use as a so-called global top-level domain — the letters that follow the dot in Internet addresses.Still has to go to the Icann board, but it would be surprising if it reversed this decision.Bitcoin company acquisitions begin: SatoshiDice sells for $11.5m &gt;&gt; CoindeskSatoshiDice (S.DICE), which claims to be "the most popular Bitcoin betting game in the universe", was launched by its operator Erik Voorhees in late April 2012. The company's shares have since been traded on MPEx, the Romanian Bitcoin securities exchange.Yesterday evening (17th July), Voorheesannounced the sale of the company, stating: "I believe this to be a solid, desirable, and fair outcome for those who have put their trust in S.DICE."The sale has met a mixed reception. The gamble paid off well for Voorhees, though.Apple hard drives twice as bad as others, says consumer watchdog &gt;&gt; Macworld UKApple external hard drives, such as the Time Capsule, are more than twice as likely to develop a fault than storage devices from other manufacturers, according to a survey by respected UK consumer group Which?. See: Apple Time Capsule review. Note: The Time Capsule tested by Which is the old model, not the new Time Capsule launched recently.The Which? May 2013 survey of 1,926 members of the public found that nearly half (49%) of Apple external hard drive owners had experienced a fault with the device.This compares to around a fifth (22%) of owners of non-Apple externals hard drives who had suffered a fault.Which? described the findings as "worrying for a premium brand", especially as 67% of Apple hard drive problems occurred within the first year of ownership.Time Capsule failures keep going on. We wrote about thisway back in November 2009. Those seemed to be related to the power supply. It's not clear from this report what the cause is.The H is closing down &gt;&gt; The H Open: News and FeaturesAlthough The H has produced many widely read stories, it has not been possible to effectively monetise that traffic to produce a working business model.Because of this, after four and a half years as The H and six years online, The H is, sadly, closing its doors.A loss. Itstop ten most-read storiesare worth reading. Also dead:Tap, an iPad-only app-mag, launched in 2010.Android's advantages over iPhone &gt;&gt; MediumDave Feldman:Lately I've seen a number of iPhone / Android comparisons suggesting that for the typical user, you can't go wrong. These baffle me; I'll get to why in future installments. But a loss is not a shut-out, and there are critical areas where Android nails it while iPhone misses the mark.Feldman brings a cool appraisal as someone trying to design an app, and use the platform. (Thanks @HotSoup for the link.)VLC for iPhone and iPad returns with Wi-Fi upload, Dropbox sync and more &gt;&gt; Mac RumorsSeveral years ago, the popular desktop media player VLC wasreleased for iPhone and iPadon the App Store. However, the app was eventuallyremoved from the storeover copyright issues with the GPL license.Now, VLC is back on iOS [App Store Link] with a complete rewrite including AirPlay support, multiple ways to load files into the video app, realtime video filters, playback speed manipulation, subtitles and more.With those attributes, a must-have on iOS.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
How was hour weekend? Hot, right?
Price £33,645MPG 41.5Top speed 155mphMy favourite was the little green Mini, but the Superfast Corvette with exposed engine block and flame decals was a close second. There was also the Land Rover Defender with those rubbery wheels you could pull off, the ambulance with its tiny opening rear doors and the green truck with a swinging hook on a piece of tangled red thread… Mention the wordMatchboxand for many people you open a box of memories. In my case a box that came with two blue mesh trays and a pushbutton lid, the contents of which were lined up and driven round the patterns on the kitchen lino while I made soft yowling and growling sounds which left me with a sore throat.It is 60 years sinceJack Odellfirst designed a dinky car for his daughter to take into class. Her school only allowed toys that could fit inside a&nbsp;matchbox, so Odell crafted a scaled version of a green and red road roller. A dump truck and a cement mixer followed and then, over the decades, everything from Alfas to Zodiacs.All those years spent pushing small cars across the floor helps us prepare for day when we finally get behind the wheel of a&nbsp;dream car such as thisBMW Z4roadster. Just like all those Matchboxers, it too is scorchingly fast and can pull itself through the most amazing bends. It even makes its own soft yowling and growling sounds. And, just like those pocket rockets, it's totally impractical. The boot actually is matchbox-sized. But worrying about such boring pragmata is to miss the point of the Z4 – it's not about transport, it's all about driving.The driver-centric cockpit Photograph: Tom KirkpatrickThe Z4 is a two-seat, front-engined, rear-drive roadster that traces its genes back to thecrazy Z1of 25 years ago – most famous for its bizarre drop-down doors which folded into the sills. You could drive roof down and doors folded for a full "open car" experience. This Z4 has regular doors. But slip into the low-slung bucket seat and pop open the roof and you'll be transported back in time. The driving position is extreme. Your eyes are virtually on a level with the long, vented bonnet and the interplay of forces from the rear axle at your back and the humming engine in front of you is exhilarating. The immediate, gravity-defying handling makes it easy to imagine some great hand is careening you across the kitchen floor.Look down into the open Z4 from the pavement and you'll see that more than half its length is given over to the engine. Back seats, boot, pah! Beneath its veneer of civility it is that most basic thing – four wheels, two seats and a big engine. The power from the direct-injected 2-litre turbocharged four-cylinder engine means you'll hit 60mph in about five seconds. You can opt for the six-speed manual or the eight-speed automatic – either way the top speed is limited to 155mph. That's fast enough, really. Stamp on the throttle and you jump away from the lights like one of those trick waterskiers being jerked off the jetty.Out of the box: one of the first Matchbox cars made by Jack Odell 60 years ago. Photograph: Gunter Nezhoda/AlamyThe car comes with a folding  metal hardtop which takes 19 seconds to open or close and it  works at up to 35mph. I opened it  at 30mph – but I couldn't escape  the sense that the roof was going to catch the wind and whip the car into the air – or was it just that old Matchbox feeling again?Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one place
Poor Luigi – eternally second fiddle. Hence Nintendo has been working enthusiastically to improve the oft disrespected Mario brother's standing of late, culminating in this starring role. Somewhat disappointingly, though, platforming adventureNew Super Luigi Uis merely a tweaked version ofNew Super Mario Bros. The new game is sold as either digital add-on content for users owning theMario Brosgame or as a stand-alone disc for newcomers.The 82 stages here are designed as more of a challenge mode, each level a much trickier reworking of itsMariocounterpart, and allowing only 100 seconds to complete. Gone, too, are traditional checkpoint flags – fail and it's right back to the beginning.Luigi's distinctive movement – with higher and longer jumps, gentle floating and slower movement than his sibling – dramatically affects how you play, while the biggest change comes in multiplayer with newly playable character Nabbit's invulnerability providing ample opportunity for more adventurous players to storm through.Ultimately, the heightened difficulty robs Luigi's outing of the simple joy of the source game, but dedicated players will no doubt relish the ramped-up challenge on offer here.
Once upon a time, a young man named Bill had a vision. He saw "a PC on every desk, and every machine running Microsoft software". And lo, it came to pass, and the company Bill co-founded became a gigantic machine for making money, and Bill became the richest man on Earth.This agreeable outcome was arranged in a most ingenious way. The tedious business of making computer hardware was left to others – so-called "original equipment manufacturers" (OEMs), who sweated away in Taiwanese and other jungles manufacturing machines that attracted ever-smaller profit margins. All Microsoft did was to write the software for the operating system and the Office applications that transformed OEM hardware from expensive paperweights into something that could do useful corporate work.Because most of the expense in creating software is incurred upfront, once it's been written every subsequent copy is, effectively, free to produce. And because for a long time Microsoft Windows was the only game in the corporate town, all Bill and his mates had to do was collect their monopoly rents. Which they did.Indeed, they were so focused on the revenue stream that flowed from the world's desktops into their coffers that they failed to notice an important development. It was called the internet and a cheeky start-up company called Netscape was busy exploiting it.Netscape's leaders even talked boldly about the likelihood that a program called a "web browser" might one day replace operating systems like&nbsp;Windows.Nowthatdid get Bill's attention, and in 1995 he composed a famousinternal memothat likened the net to a tidal wave. "Developments on the internet over the next several years," he wrote, "will set the course of our industry for a long time to come… I have gone through several stages of increasing my views of its importance. Now I assign the internet the highest level of importance. In this memo I want to make clear that our focus on the internet is crucial to every part of our business. The internet is the most important single development to come along since the IBM PC was introduced in 1981."The internet threat was so grave, in Gates's opinion, that every part of Microsoft's operation – and every one of its products – should become network-focused. And the astonishing thing is that he managed to make that happen. In a remarkable example of corporate leadership, he turned the company on a dime. In the process, he almost ensured that Microsoft was broken up because of its determination to destroy Netscape. A federal judge found that Microsoft had abused its monopoly position by incorporating its (inferior) web browser into its operating system. Ultimately, Microsoft appealed and the resulting anti-trust suit was knocked somewhat off course amid George W Bush's election victory in 2000, and the company survived to breathe again.Coincidentally, in that same year, Gates stepped down from his position as CEO and began the slow process of disengaging from the company. What he failed to notice was that the folks he left in charge, chief among them one Steve Ballmer, were prone to sleeping at the wheel.How else can one explain the way they failed to notice the importance of (successively) internet search, online advertising, smartphones and tablets until the threat was upon them? Or were they just lulled into somnolence by the sound of the till ringing up continuing sales from the old staples of Windows and Office?But suddenly, that soothing tinkle has become less comforting. PC sales are starting todecline sharply, which means that Microsoft's comfort zone is likewise set to shrink. Last week, we had the first indication that Ballmer &amp; Co have woken up. In a 2,700-wordinternal memorich inmanagement-speak drivel, Ballmer announced a "far-reaching realignment of the company that will enable us to innovate with greater speed, efficiency and capability in a fast-changing world".The various internal warring silos known as "product groups" will be disbanded and the entire company (97,000 employees) is to be rejigged on "functional" lines (engineering, marketing, advanced strategy and research), with the aim of "focusing the whole company on a single strategy".And what, pray, is this vision, this single strategy upon which all are to agree? Why, "to execute even better on our strategy to deliver a family of devices and services that best empower people for the activities they value most and the enterprise extensions and services that are most valuable to business." Which, translated, reads: we haven't a clue, really, but we need to be seen to be doingsomething.Say what you like about Bill Gates, but you have to admire his timing: he got out when the going was still good.
Last year, 24 million Britons played mobile games, according to market research firm Newzoo. That's a lot of smartphone and tablet gameplay, often involving people who had never previously owned a dedicated games console or handheld.Mobile gaming has exploded in the five years since Apple and Google launched their app stores for iOS and Android. Today there is a huge variety of games available on a smartphone or tablet; from puzzle games and retro runners through to immersive adventures and hardcore strategy games, there's something for every kind of gamer, however experienced. And the best of them have been designed for the touchscreen, rather than being clumsily ported across from consoles or PCs.Angry Birds clocked up 263 million active players in 2012, while Candy Crush Saga is played more than 600m times a day. Many of these games have social features too, so you can compare scores with Facebook friends or play head-to-head against strangers around the world.One key trend over the past year is the popularity of "freemium" games. These are free to download and play, but they make their money from in-app purchases of virtual items and currency – you might buy extra-level packs and additional characters to extend the lifetime of a game, or coins/ gems/ doughnuts (it varies) to use within the game to improve your chances of success, or speed up your progress.For that reason, whenever you see below that a game is marked "free", it probably contains in-app purchases. If you're a parent buying these games for a child, make sure you've read your device's manual to find out how to change the settings to ensure the kids can't spend without your approval.Another welcome trend in 2013 is that many of the best games are available on Android as well as iOS – which hasn't always been the case. Particularly for games that have social and multi-player features, the more people on more devices who can play, the better. Sifting through the hundreds of new games released every week on the app stores can feel like searching for needles in a haystack. The 50 games below are a good entry point to the best that mobile gaming has to offer, but other high-quality titles are coming along all the time.ActionJETPACK JOYRIDEiPhone/iPad/Android/Windows Phone(free) A one-button game that involves piloting the jetpack-toting Barry Steakfries through a succession of levels, earning coins to buy new power-ups that'll help him go further every time. Seems simple but has bags of depth.GRAND THEFT AUTO: VICE CITYiPhone/iPad/Android(£2.99) The console classic translates smoothly to touchscreen devices, as you explore the sprawling Vice City, dealing destruction and death in terrible 80s shirts. It may be more than 10 years old, but it still feels fresh.RIDICULOUS FISHINGiPhone/iPad(£1.99) Fishing gets an explosive twist in this wonderfully characterful arcade game. You lower your line, reel in as much sealife as possible, then launch it into the sky to blast it with a shotgun. It's not particularly wildlife friendly, but it's very good fun all the same.ANGRY BIRDS STAR WARSiPhone/iPad/Android/Windows Phone/BlackBerry(free) Like previousAngry Birdsgames, this sees you hurling birds at pigs. Except this time, the birds are dressed as Luke Skywalker, Chewbacca and friends, with lightsabers and anti-gravity included. The bestStar Warsspin-off in years.SUPER MONSTERS ATE MY CONDO!iPhone/iPad/Android(free) It's hard to beat this game for pure fun but also pure weirdness. It sees you sliding apartment floors out from wobbling towers to make colour matches as Day-Glo monsters wiggle in the background. Insanely good.WHERE'S MY WATER?iPhone/iPad/Android/Windows Phone(£0.65-£0.79) Each level – and there are more than 500 – involves manipulating water in its various forms, collecting items and unlocking bonus levels as you go. Four brand new characters to play as.NIMBLE QUESTiPhone/iPad/Android(free-£0.69) RememberSnakefrom the glory days of Nokia mobile phones? This takes the idea and slithers with it, except your snake is now a "conga line of heroes" shooting at enemies and collecting gems and power-ups. Accessible and addictive.TEMPLE RUN 2iPhone/iPad/Android(free) Hundreds of millions of people have played theTemple Rungames, where you swipe the screen to make your endlessly running character turn, jump and slide out of the clutches of a giant monkey clomping in your wake.RUNNING WITH FRIENDSiPhone/iPad(free-£2.49) Available in a choice offreeorpaidversions,Running With Friendsis another endless-runner game, this time based on a Pamplona-style running-with-the-bulls race. The friends are your Facebook friends, who you can challenge.FISH OUT OF WATER!iPhone/iPad(£0.69) This game takes the simple pleasures of skimming stones and replaces the stones with colourful fish, each with their own bouncing patterns. Your job is to skip them as far as possible for the highest score. It's very moreish.RAYMAN JUNGLE RUNiPhone/iPad/Android/Windows Phone(£1.99-£2.29)  Rayman is a familiar character from console games, but his latest mobile outing might be his best yet. It sees him running and jumping through 70 well-crafted levels, with controls that work well on the touchscreen.MINECRAFT: POCKET EDITIONiPhone/iPad/Android(£4.99)Minecrafthas been a huge hit with children and adults alike, with its virtual world where you explore and craft using blocks. It works just as well on smartphones and tablets as on computers and consoles.SKY GAMBLERS: RISE OF GLORYiPhone/iPad/Android(free-£1.99) This first world war dogfighting game has stunning graphics, especially when played on a tablet. Thankfully, the gameplay matches up, with a choice of solo and multiplayer modes, and finely tuned controls for wannabe pilots.WHALE TRAILiPhone/iPad/Android(free-£1.99) This gently psychedelic game comes with its own theme tune from Super Furry Animals' Gruff Rhys. You have to guide Willow the whale through the clouds, collecting bubbles and building as big a score as possible as you go. Utterly charming.AdventureWALKING DEAD: THE GAMEiPhone/iPad(free) One more in the eye for anyone who thinks mobile games can't be as gripping as console games –&nbsp;or even TV shows.Walking Deadbrings the zombie saga to iOS, with in-app purchases to buy the five episodes. It's fantastic storytelling.LIMBO GAMEiPhone/iPad(£2.99) PlatformerLimbois one of the creepiest, most atmospheric games currently available on any platform, let alone mobile. With stylish monochrome graphics and frequently fiendish puzzles, it's a rewarding and original adventure.INFINITY BLADE IIiPhone/iPad(£4.99) This is part beat 'em up and part RPG, as your hero battles a succession of enormous monsters and levels up his weapons, armour and skills. An innovative ClashMob feature lets you play challenges with friends and strangers.RAVENSWORD: SHADOWLANDSiPhone/iPad/Android(£4.63-£4.99) If you like console games like Skyrim and can't believe the genre would work on mobile devices, this may change your mind. It's a huge open-world adventure with many hours of exploration and battle in store.THE NIGHTJARiPhone/iPad(£2.99) The twist here is thatThe Nightjaris an audio-only adventure: you are denied the use of graphics, and can navigate only by sounds. The plot sees you trying to escape from a marooned spacecraft, and the spooky storyline is narrated by actor Benedict Cumberbatch.YEAR WALKiPhone/iPad(£2.49) This is one of the standout iOS games in recent memory. Based on Swedish mythology, it's a first-person adventure set in a wintry landscape, in which you have to wander in search of a glimpse of your future. There are puzzles, characterful graphics and a creepily atmospheric soundtrack.BROKEN SWORD: DIRECTOR'S CUTiPhone/iPad/Android(£2.49-£2.99) Originally rReleased in 1996, this point'n'click adventure has lost none of its appeal in the transition to swipe'n'tap. Your job is to solve a murder and uncover an ancient conspiracy, with tricksy puzzles and a healthy dash of humour.WARHAMMER QUESTiPhone/iPad(£2.99) Its roots as a tabletop role-playing game meanWarhammerhas a wide fanbase, but its first mobile game should win it plenty of new fans, too. It offers dungeons, monsters and treasure galore in a series of immersive quests.STAR WARS: KNIGHTS OF THE OLD REPUBLICiPad(£2.99) This RPG first came out in 2003 for Xbox and PC, before being revived this year for iPad. It remains an engrossing adventure, as you explore worlds, battle foes, run the gauntlet of hostile bartenders and bounty hunters on Tatooine, and learn to use the Force.SUPERBROTHERS: SWORD &amp; SWORCERYiPhone/iPad/Android(£2.99-£3.25)  A quirky adventure, with beautiful "pixel-art" graphics, this action-adventure is full of surprises and boasts one of the best soundtracks on any gaming device, matching the action perfectly.PuzzleWORLD OF GOOiPhone/iPad/Android(£1.99) Originally released for PC and Wii,World of Goofound its spiritual home on tablets and smartphones. It's a physics-based puzzler based on dropping and stretching blobs of goo and manipulating them to connect pipes and other structures. It's gloopily great.CUT THE ROPE: TIME TRAVELiPhone/iPad/Android(free-69p) There are several Cut the Rope games, all fun, but this is the latest. You control cutesy monster Om Nom, swiping to cut ropes and guide sweets into his mouth, as well as collecting stars. Great fun for children and adults alike.DOTS: A GAME ABOUT CONNECTINGiPhone/iPad(free) On an App Store full of addictive puzzlers,Dotsis one of the best. It sounds so simple: make coloured dots disappear by tracing connections between them. Yet there's a world of strategy required to nail high scores.WORDS WITH FRIENDSiPhone/iPad/Android/Windows Phone(free-£2.29) This has been around for years, but remains the best word-puzzle game for mobile devices. Scrabble, essentially, it is played across multiple matches at once, against Facebook friends, or strangers if preferred.LETTERPRESS: WORD GAMEiPhone/iPad(free) Not every word game has to look like a board game, even ifLetterpressmight remind you ofBoggle. It involves making words from a grid of letters, taking turns with friends over the network to score as many points as possible.MAGNETIC BILLIARDS: BLUEPRINTiPhone/iPad(£0.69) If you like pool or bar billiards in the real world, you'll love this on iOS. It's a game of angles and strategy, where you shoot balls around a table, creating clusters that stick together. Perfect tactile touchscreen fun.THE ROOMiPhone/iPad/Android(£1.49)The Roomis one of the cleverest puzzle games to be developed for touchscreen devices from the ground up, as you explore a house and solve puzzles by tilting and touching your device. The difficulty curve is just right, too.CANDY CRUSH SAGAiPhone/iPad/Android(free) A bona-fide craze, with tens of millions of addicted players already. The game involves matching coloured sweets across more than 100 levels, with in-app purchases of lives and power-ups to help when you get stuck.TRIPLE TOWNiPhone/iPad/Android(free) Against tough competition,Triple Townmight just be the most addictive mobile game ever. You build a puzzle town by matching bushes, trees and buildings in clumps of three or more, fending off bears as you go. A time-sucker in the best of ways.BLIP BLUPiPhone/iPad/Android(free-£1.49) Blip Blup will keep you occupied for many happy – if challenging – hours. Each level is made up of a pattern of tiles, which you complete by tapping (or "blipping") to trigger pulses of colour. The idea is to change the colour of every tile before you run out of blips. Its 120 puzzles offer plenty of depth.HUNDREDSiPhone/iPad/Android(£1.99-£2.99) An original puzzle game that requires you to tap on a ball with a number in the middle in order to make the ball expand, and its value (the number) grow. Grow it to 100 and you win, but as the ball grows, you have to make sure it doesn't collide with the other balls. Stylish by design and very hypnotic.BEJEWELED BLITZiPhone/iPad/Android(free) Bejeweled is a famous jewel-matching puzzle game that's been around for years. The "Blitz" element here means quickfire 60-second rounds to score as many points as possible, then compete against your friends on Facebook. Frenetic and fun.Sports and gamingREAL BOXINGiPhone/iPad/Android(£2.49) Another game whose console-quality graphics will startle at first. Once initiated, you'll be more focused on the bone-crunching gameplay – you will quickly learn how to jab, cut and hook – and deep career mode of this chunky box 'em up.VIRTUA TENNIS CHALLENGEiPhone/iPad/Android(£2.99-£4.02) Got thumbs capable of emulating Andy Murray at Wimbledon? Sega's latestVirtua Tennisgame is a treat. Customise a character then play your way through tournaments around the world, with 50 players to test your skills against.NEED FOR SPEED MOST WANTEDiPhone/iPad/Android(£2.99) EA'sNeed for Speedgames have a firm following on console, and now on mobile. This street-racing game features more than 40 cars, lots of customisation and spectacular graphics. Oh, and a spiffing sense of speed, thankfully.NEW STAR SOCCERiPhone/iPad/Android(free - £1.99) It looks like a football game from the 80s, but plays better than its biggest rivals in 2013. You play as an individual footballer – passing, shooting and intercepting with simple swipes on the screen. Unputdownable.REAL RACING 3iPhone/iPad/Android(free) The first time you play this you will be impressed with the gleaming, console-quality graphics, gameplay depth and fine handling. There are more than 50 cars to race, hundreds of events and innovative multiplayer features.FOOTBALL MANAGER HANDHELD 2013iPhone/iPad/Android(£6.99) It'scaused divorceson PC, andFootball Manageris no less immersive on mobile devices. Oversee transfers, training and tactics to take teams to the top in 14 playable&nbsp;leagues. Real thought has been put into the mobile conversion, too.StrategyTHE HOBBIT: KINGDOMS OF MIDDLE-EARTHiPhone/iPad/Android(free) Craving more Hobbity fun between the new movies? This official game is faithful and fun, as you build a Dwarven or Elven city, battle other players and interact with characters from Tolkien's fantasy world.THE SIMPSONS: TAPPED OUTiPhone/iPad/Android(free) There have been dodgy Simpsons games in the past, but this one is anything but. It's a freemium town-building game – the town is Springfield, of course – and the show's humour makes the transition perfectly to a game.WAKING MARSiPhone/iPad/Android(£2.99-£3.09) There's something bewitching aboutWaking Mars, a game where you explore the red planet and grow an ecosystem of plants and aliens. It's a game that rewards thought and persistence, and one that gets richer the more you play it.GAME DEV STORYiPhone/iPad/Android(£1.60-£2.49) So, you like playing games, but what about making them?Game Dev Storyis Japanese in origin, and puts you in charge of a developer making console games. It's quirky and, once you start playing, you won't be able tostop.PLANTS VS ZOMBIESiPhone/iPad/Android/Windows Phone(£0.69-£3.99) The sequel isn't far off, but if you're new toPlants vs Zombies, start with the original. Plant the plants to fend off the zombies across 50 levels, unlocking new powers along the way. Mini-games add depth and a fair few laughs.CLASH OF CLANSiPhone/iPad(free) One of the biggest mobile games in the world in 2013, and justifiably so. You build a village with all a warrior clan requires, train troops and then battle other players over the network, mastering the intricacies of warriors and defences as you go.HAY DAYiPhone/iPad(free) If you tired of Facebook gameFarmVillebut still hanker after the virtual farming life,Hay Dayis the game for you. After a helping hand from a talking scarecrow, you're off – raising crops and livestock, and trading with friends. But it's the sly humour that really delights.POCKET PLANESiPhone/iPad/Android(free) Ever fancied running your own airline? That's the gist ofPocket Planes, with more than 250 cities to fly to, and a long-term challenge in planning your routes and upgrading your fleet. Cute pixel art adds to its appeal.
First-person shooters are notoriously difficult to pull off on touchscreens. Without a mouse or a gamepad, moving and looking around simultaneously can prove tricky, so it was with some trepidation that fans awaited the release ofDeus Ex: The Fall(Square Enix, iOS, £4.99).A spin-off from the hugely popular 2011 cyberpunk shooter,The Falltries to cram all that was good about the original on to a mobile device – and does pretty well, given the limitations. The controls are surprisingly smooth; one half of the screen can be used to look, the other to move – with taps also guiding the techno-enhanced protagonist through the urban landscape, into cover and through various manoeuvres.The open-ended structure of missions is still in evidence, although the options, especially for dialogue, are more&nbsp;limited, butThe Falldoes a&nbsp;good job of squeezing in&nbsp;the&nbsp;best bits of the&nbsp;series.Tiny Thief(Rovio Stars, iOS, £1.99) follows a safer mobile route, a charming point-and-click adventure where you control the eponymous miniature criminal through a technicolour medieval landscape, robbing from the rich to give to the poor. The pleasure is in all the details – it's as well polished a title as you're likely to find – and it's broken down expertly so the puzzles can be tackled one at a time while on the move.
Britain's biggest musicians' union has entered the growing row over Spotify, demanding that the music streaming service draw up a new minimum pay deal for artists.TheMusicians' Union, which has more than 30,000 members throughout the industry, said it was pushing for a collective pay agreement modelled on the royalties paid by BBC and commercial radio stations. Spotify pays artists as little as 0.4p per stream, which means that a song that had a million plays would earn its performer just £4,000.By contrast a three-minute song played on Radio 2generates £59.73for the songwriters and another similar sum to be split between the label and the performing artists. This 50/50 split is being advocated by the union, although the remuneration itself would be significantly more modest.The latest row over Spotify's royalty payments began last week after Radiohead's frontman, Thom Yorke, and the band's producer, Nigel Godrich, pulled songs from the streaming service, the latter complaining that "new artists get paid fuck all with this model".Stephen Street, who produced Blur'sParklifealbum, offered a swift riposte, accusing Yorke of hypocrisy, pointing out that Radiohead devalued digital music by allowing fans to download theirIn Rainbowsalbum free in 2007.John Smith, general secretary of the Musicians' Union, said the consensus among its thousands of members was that royalty payments made by Spotify, which offers unlimited access to 20m songs to subscribers who pay monthly fees starting at £5, were "unfair".He said: "The argument that has kicked off this week is absolutely right and it really is hard, particularly for emerging artists, to make a decent amount of money. The streaming model should be able to work to the benefit of performers. We'd like to see a realignment of the intellectual property rights that govern all this in order to be fairer to artists. In the world of BBC radio and commercial radio, licensed by PPL [Phonographic Performance Limited] or PRS [the UK's music royalty collection society] for composers, there is a division of that licence – 50/50 – between record companies and performers that includes everyone from the famous artists right down to the triangle player, and we'd like to see something similar for this kind of thing."One artist, singer-songwriterTom McRae, said the argument that Spotify would prove to be the salvation of the music industry – because it negates the threat from piracy and generates income – had failed. He said Spotify had "pulled the wool over fans' eyes, letting them believe they're supporting the artists by using a legal streaming service which pays out royalties to the bands."Friends and family tell me with pride how they listen to my earlier albums on Spotify, in the knowledge that every time they listen I'm earning money. I haven't got the heart to tell them that if they listened every hour of every day for the rest of their lives it wouldn't add up to the price of a round of drinks."McRae chose not to make his last album available on Spotify. He also removed other albums to which he owns the rights in order to preserve the sales of downloads and CDs. He said: "If the main source of income for recorded music becomes streaming royalties, everyone except the record companies is screwed. No surprise to learn, then, that the majority of financial backing for Spotify comes from the major labels."Spotify states that by the end of this year it will have paid out around $1bn (£660m) to rights holders. "We're 100% committed to making Spotify the most artist-friendly music service possible, and are constantly talking to artists and managers about how Spotify can help build their careers," it said. It added that its goal was to "provide the financial support to the music industry necessary to invest in new talent and music".A spokesman said: "We've already paid $500m to rights holders, and by the end of 2013 this will have reached $1bn. Much of this money is being invested in nurturing new talent and producing new, great music."
So you're a stylish city girl. Ciao, bella! You like to buzz chicly and cheekily about town with purpose and panache, nipping in and out of the traffic, pinching parking spaces off fat boys in fat cars whose rage – and hearts – will instantly melt when you give them a smile and a shrug. What do you drive? A&nbsp;Fiat 500, obvs.What happened, though? Oops, ooh-la-la, or whatever the Italian is for ooh-la-la. Suddenly you find you've got a family, and all the shit that comes with that. You know, stuff, baggage – actual baggage, and the other sort. What do you do? Give&nbsp;up on everything? Get a&nbsp;Vauxhall Merivaor aHonda Jazz? Well, that's what you used to have to&nbsp;do. Not any more, though. Now you can get a 500L.That's how Fiat hopes the thinking goes, anyway. The 500L is like a 500 that's swallowedone of those cakes with "Eat me" on itfromAlice In Wonderland, and grown enormous (actually, all cakes have the same effect eventually). It's much bigger in every direction. The L stands for lardy. And yet it retains some of the cuteness, the chicness and the cheekiness, of the little car. Life doesn't have to end completely when you need a bit more space.It kinda works. There is loads of room – we had two big men in the back and they were happy enough, though one of them moaned about the hard seats. In the boot there's 400 litres of luggage space. It's practical and good value. There is also a likability, a charm, even, that you don't find in many of its minivan rivals. You can add further charm with extras, such as a panoramic sunroof and an espresso maker. The 500L Trekking that comes later in the year will come with its own wood-fired pizza oven… No, I made that up. Not the espresso makers, though. They're for real, by Lavazza.I'm not lying about the Trekking, either, a more rugged version that is on its way, along with an even bigger seven-seater and God knows what else. It will be like the Mini: one cute little car and an ever-increasing number of increasingly ridiculous siblings jostling to cash in on the success of the original. (The 500L is equivalent to theMini&nbsp;Countryman.) The danger is that the charm – even of the original – will be diluted.Oh, and it's not much fun behind the wheel. It's fine around town: easy and light like its little sibling (though you're much bigger, so forget about that parking-space-nicking. You probably won't fit, and&nbsp;he definitely won't be so forgiving of you in this). But on an open road with curves, it rolls and wallows a bit, like the little bus it is. The Countryman – a car I&nbsp;hate – is nicer to drive.Fiat 500L 1.6 MultiJet 105hp LoungePrice£18,890Top speed112mphAcceleration0-60mph in 11.3 secondsCombined fuel consumption(manufacturer's figure)62.8mpgCO2emissions117g/kmEcorating8/10Cool rating7/10
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewUnlike conventional zoos, Mr Shingu's Paper Zoo is made entirely using origami. To add a new animal, you choose one from a colourful menu, then follow a series of steps to crease and then fold until your creature is ready. Choose its gender, colour it in and give it a silly hat. All the animal designs are authentic origami, effectively providing step-by-step instructions for making an actual paper zoo; however, the game goes a bit further. That means providing different animals with the right food, habitat and toys, as well as playing games with your pets and encouraging them to breed. The animals keep farting, you can safely put a paper tiger in with giraffes and monkeys without the sort of mass slaughter you might expect in real life, and the whole experience has a jaunty, lighthearted feel to it that's perfect for its intended junior audience.
Maverick games designer and father of the Metal Gear Solid franchise, Hideo Kojima, has taken to Twitter to declare his abject melancholy after watching the trailer forGrand Theft Auto V, deciding – without playing it – that the upcomingMetal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Painisn't going to be as good. Microsoft has decided to kill its rewards programme, which gave you infinitesimal Microsoft Point bonuses when you spent money on Xbox Live, more often than not sending monthly emails informing you that you'd accumulated "0 points". Microsoft Points itself is also done for (you'll be able to buy games using local currency instead), a decision that feels considerably less weasely than the current Disney Dollars approach. Games out this week includeThe Smurfs 2(Xbox, PS3, Wii, Wii U, DS) and tactical ancient Chinese hack-and-slashDynasty Warriors 8(Xbox, PS3).
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewThree intrepid, fruit-hunting pilots crash on a strange world, where they meet the Pikmin, a delightful species of plant creature that lives to help. Throw them at aggressive alien fauna and they dutifully kill them and return anything useful they find to their nest. Nintendo's uniquely organic take on real-time strategy looks beautiful in HD, the ankle-height landscapes you explore rendered in startlingly realistic detail, while the ability to control three heroes adds team tactics. Despite its apparent innocence and lack of visible blood, the world of Pikmin is as savage as nature, making the wails of a dying Pikmin and their prey a regular accompaniment, and makes you feel a lot worse than losing a few units in Starcraft. New monsters and Pikmin varieties, and a cameo by the star of the first two games, add further entertainment to this charming and utterly absorbing adventure.
Some of the first partners forYouTube's "pilot programme" for subscription-based channels, which was launched in May, have said that their paid channels are off to a slow start.A total of 29 channels went live as part of the pilot, with partners including Sesame Street, UFC, National Geographic, PGA and Magnolia Pictures charging $0.99 or more a month for paid channels that would sit alongside their free videos on YouTube.Variety has followed up, and found several hinting that the uptake has been sluggish, even if none of them have risked the wrath of YouTube by revealing their actual figures."We had hoped to set the world on fire. We are not setting the world on fire right now," said National Geographic's senior vice president of global strategy."The subscription activity we have seen so far has not been particularly high," adds Miguel Penella, chief executive of RLJ Entertainment, which has two paid channels in the pilot. Entrepreneur Mark Cuban, whose Guys Night In channel is also part of the pilot, tells Variety it is "working OK. Not amazing."Cue speculation about whether YouTube subscriptions having flopped; why Google struggles to sell content rather than ads around content; and whether original channels on YouTube have the bright, disruptive future that has been predicted so often in recent years.Is that fair? It's important to note that Sutherland tells Variety that National Geographic is still committed to its YouTube strategy, while Penella describes it as "more of a testing ground" and praises its "tremendous reach and tremendous potential in terms of marketing and promotion".Sesame Street's spokesperson, meanwhile, is quoted as saying "we are very happy with the performance so far". And a YouTube statement points out that "pilot" means, well, pilot."We're in the early days of piloting paid channels. Just as the Partner Program empowered creators to take their channels to the next level, we look forward to seeing how creators bring new content to their fan communities on YouTube."Any rush to judgment on YouTube's subscription channels is likely due to the intense interest in its emergence as a distribution platform for professionally-produced, often TV-like content.See also itsOriginal Channels initiative, which is investing $300m in 160 exclusive channels covering comedy, lifestyle, sports and other genres, and which has been the subject of similar speculation about whether it's as lucrative for those channel partners as they had expected.In March, All Things Digital suggested thatYouTube ad revenues weren't "keeping pace"with the growing view-counts (and costs) of some of YouTube's biggest channel partners. Then, in July, AdAge claimed that a number of those partners werelooking for additional distribution deals beyond YouTube– albeit with the site's blessing – to boost their advertising revenues.Google rarely talks about how much money YouTube is making for Google as a business, although the most recent analyst estimates range from Morgan Stanley's$4bn of YouTube revenues in 2013to Wedge Partners' estimate thatYouTube generates around 10% of Google's total revenues– which based on the company's $14.1bn of revenues in its last financial quarter could make YouTube a $5.6bn annual business.YouTube's revenues are certainly growing: Google's senior vice-president and chief business officerNikesh Arora told analysts this weekthat "Youtube's mobile revenue in June of this year was three times what it was at the beginning of the year". How this translates into money for channel owners remains to be seen.What's certain is that YouTube's subscriptions and Original Channels fit into the wider pattern of disruption in the television industry. YouTube is funding original content, but so are Amazon and Netflix.The latterearned its first nominations for the prestigious Emmys industry awardsthis week for two of its original series – House of Cards and Arrested Development – and earlier this year published aNetflix Long Term Viewdocument setting out its vision for the future of TV."Over the coming decades and across the world, Internet TV will replace linear TV," summarised the document. "Apps will replace channels, remote controls will disappear, and screens will proliferate."A slow start for YouTube's subscription channels in two months in 2013 should be seen in that context: their success will be much better judged by how they're doing in three to five years' time.
Making money from smartphone and tablet apps is a tough business. That's why there are so many "apps monetisation" conferences, consultants of varying quality and reputation, and an ever-growing sector of companies trying to make money from apps with platforms that help other companies make money from apps. In theory.You don't have to look far for big numbers giving hope to all of the above. Take analytics firmApp Annie's latest report, which is aimed at investors eyeing the apps market, complete with its vision of a combined iOS and Android market "nearly worth $1 Trillion today".Wait, what? Apple said in June that it had paid out $10bn to iOS app developers since the launch of its App Store in 2008, which by my reckoning (once you factor Apple's 30% cut of app sales back in) leaves a mere $986bn to be mopped up by Android, Windows Phone and BlackBerry.But App Annie isn't talking about revenues, of course. It's talking about the combined market cap of the 37 publicly-traded companies which appear in a chart of the 100 top app publishers by revenue on iOS and Android.That's a list that includes Apple, Microsoft, Disney and Time Warner – $841.6bn market cap between them – so those dreams of an apps economy worth $1 trillion will have to remain dreams for now.(In fairness, the report is aimed more at persuading companies to invest in firms a bit lower down the market-cap chart, for example picking out GungHo Online and KLab as two companies whose share price jumped after good news on their app businesses.)Still, there is evidence elsewhere of strong growth in the money being made from apps on an industry level. App Annie claims that gross revenue for the App Store and Google Play has more than doubled over the past year, and Apple and Google's own figures support that.It took Apple four years to pay out its first $5bn to iOS app developers, but only a year to pay the next $5bn. In Google's financial earnings call this week, meanwhile,chief executive Larry Page told analyststhat "we already paid out more money to Android developers this year than in the whole of 2012".He didn't say how much that was, although Apple's 50bn downloads and $10bn payouts only requires simple maths to calculate that the average iOS download – including free apps – costs around $0.29 (since we're adding Apple's 30% back onto the $10bn again).Another mobile analytics company, Flurry, has justpublished its own statsto shed more light on apps pricing trends, based on four years of data gleaned from iOS and Android apps using its tools.Many of the conclusions are logical, but good to have updated numbers for. The company says that 90% of iOS apps are now free to download – up from 84% a year ago – with another 6% costing $0.99.Flurry also estimates that the average Android app download costs $0.06 – again, this includes free apps – with the figure rising to $0.19 for iPhone and $0.50 for iPad."Some might argue that this supports the idea that "content wants to be free". We don't see it quite that way. Instead, we simply see this as the outcome of consumer choice: people want free content more than they want to avoid ads or to have the absolute highest quality content possible," suggests Flurry.It also suggests that the data points to a separate conclusion: that advertising may become much more of a factor in the way people make money from their apps in the months and years to come."While consumers may not like in-app advertising, their behavior makes it clear that they are willing to accept it in exchange for free content, just as we have in radio, TV and online for decades. In light of that, it seems that the conversation about whether apps should have ads is largely over," claims Flurry."Developers of some specialized apps may be able to monetize through paid downloads, and game apps sometimes generate significant revenue through in-app purchases, but since consumers are unwilling to pay for most apps, and most app developers need to make money somehow, it seems clear that ads in apps are a sure thing for the foreseeable future. Given that, we believe it's time to shift the conversation away from whether there should be ads in apps at all, and instead determine how to make ads in apps as interesting and relevant as possible for consumers, and as efficient and effective as possible for advertisers and developers."The caveat this time is that besides its analytics tools, Flurry also runs a mobile advertising business called AppCircle. It thus has a keen interest in talking up the importance of mobile ads (and the need for better targeting of those ads).In any case, estimating the overall value of the apps market may be a fool's game. Money spent on app downloads and in-app purchases is trackable (or at least estimable), and there is no shortage of predictions for how much is being spent on mobile advertising – although most forecasts I've seen don't distinguish between ads within apps and on mobile websites.But the value of apps is often felt elsewhere. How many people signed up for a Netflix subscription on the basis of being able to watch films on a tablet? How many of Spotify's 6m+ subscribers are paying the full £9.99 a month because they want to listen to music through its mobile apps?Financial Times subscriptions,Microsoft Office 365 subscriptions, the$20bn of products eBay expects to be soldthrough its mobile apps and sites in 2013...We'll keep seeing big numbers bandied about apps as a standalone industry, but the real value of these things will often be about being a prominent ingredient in wider digital services that span screens and platforms according to the needs of the people using them.It'll be less about the size of a notional "apps market" (whether $1 trillion or less) and more about how smartphones and tablets are adding value to industries as diverse as music, entertainment and games, through to healthcare and professional services.
Microsoft's experiment with its Surface RT tablet,launched amid great fanfare in June 2012, has turned out to be an expensive one. The company announced a $900m (£591m) charge for inventory writedowns in itsquarterly resultson Thursday night – a move that was only partly balanced by adding in $782m of revenues from people upgrading Microsoft Office.Overall, the company's revenues grew by 11% to $19.9bn, while its operating income was $6.1bn – a fall of 5% compared to the same figure, excluding a $6.3bn writeoff, a year ago.Its shares dropped 7% in after-hours trading, after months in which they had enjoyed an upturn following years of stagnation. Even ignoring the writeoff on Surface RT, Microsoft missed analyst targets.Microsoft slashed the price of the Surface RT last week, apparently in an attempt to get sales moving ahead of a refreshed version later this summer. While it did not give sales figures, it is reckoned to have shifted just 1m tablets – 260,000 Surface RT, which cannot run older third-party Windows programs, and 750,000 Surface Pros, which can.That would give it about 2% of the entire tablet market, which is presently dominated by longtime rival Apple and companies offering tablets running Google's Android, including Samsung and Acer."It doesn't inspire a lot of confidence," Nomura Securities analyst Rick Sherlund told AP. "[Microsoft is] in the hardware business now, and pretty shortly after entering it you have a pretty big writedown. That's embarrassing."The software giant had a torrid quarter in which its consumer-facing businesses – its Online Search division and Entertainment &amp; Devices division – both lost money, while its Windows division saw revenues decline by $281m, or 6%, after adjusting for deferred revenue from Windows upgrades the year before. That reflected the shrinking PC market, where worldwide PC sales have fallen for the past five quarters.But the Office division, which provides the widely used suite of programs, and the Server &amp; Tools division, saw strong growth in profits and revenues.The company underwent a dramatic reorganisation after the fiscal quarter in which chief executive Steve Ballmer aimed to focus it on both hardware and software, and set out the company along "functional" rather than product-based lines.Ballmer said: "We are working hard to deliver compelling new devices and high-value experiences from Microsoft and our partners in the coming months, including new Windows 8.1 tablets and PCs."But it was the PC business, on which Microsoft's success was initially built, which was weakest. Although Microsoft is shielded from the continuing decline in the PC business by customers who buy Windows upgrades when they are needed, around half of the PC market goes to consumers.Windows division profits more than halved, from $2.4bn a year ago to $1.1bn. Microsoft said it thought the business market had returned to "modest growth" but that the consumer PC business "remains challenged and declined again this quarter".Windows 8, released last October, has not been well-received among consumers, and businesses have largely preferred to buy its predecessor, Windows 7, which does not offer the "tiled" appearance of its newer sibling. Ballmer said that Windows 8.1, which restores some of the appearance of Windows 7 to Windows 8, will be released to PC makers in August.Microsoft's newly promoted chief financial officer Amy Hood said in a conference call that "this journey will take time", adding "We know we have to do better. We are confident we are moving in the right direction."
A burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAndroid vs. iPhone: Why Apple still has the edge over Google's operating system &gt;&gt; Slate MagazineFarhad Manjoo:If you get the Play edition of these phones, you'll see Google's version of each of these apps, and you'll come away impressed by Google's tasteful, restrained, utilitarian design sense. But if, like most people, you get your phone for $199 from a carrier, you'll find everything in it is a frightful mess.Google's dialing app, for instance, uses a minimalist palette and big, readable, sans-serif numbers. Samsung's is a garish shock of mismatched colors, lines, and shadows. It's not just hideous but less functional. In the contacts pane, Google's dialer smartly displays people's names and numbers; you can dial just by touching the number. In Samsung's dialer, you've got to tap a contact's name, which brings up a new screen, which you've got to tap again to make a phone call. Meanwhile, if you click on a number in the call log, Samsung's dialer doesn't do the obvious thing and dial the number—instead it shows you another screen, and to dial the number you've to press the green phone icon, which isn't immediately obvious.New consoles coming, but forecasts fall short of previous highs &gt;&gt; ABI ResearchABI Research expects cumulative shipments of 8th generation consoles from the big three to pass 133m during the first five years on market, compared to nearly 140m 7th generation consoles over the same length of time.Senior analyst Michael Inouye comments: "With many of the casual gaming segment embracing mobile devices for gaming, without a shift in strategy and pricing the Wii U will likely fail to match the success of the Wii which will impact future console shipments. If China decides to lift its ban on consoles, however, in the short term this could boost future shipments of 7th generation game consoles while minimally altering the 8th generation."Everyone pins hopes on China, yet China never quite does what they expect.Why I'm returning Google Glass &gt;&gt; Internet EvolutionRon Miller:Yesterday I made the call to return my Google Glass. After months of anticipation, a trip to New York, and several weeks with the device, after much deliberation I decided the device wasn't ready for prime time and my $1,500 would be better spent elsewhere.When I purchased my Glass I knew I had 30 days to decide if I wanted to keep or return it. The device has many charms, but in the end I didn't like peering at a small screen while looking up. And I simply wasn't dazzled. For that kind of money, I wanted to be blown away and I wasn't. I just wasn't.At its core, Google Glass is a beta device being tested by an enthusiastic group of early adopters who are paying for the privilege. I know Robert Scoble loves his. Tim O'Reilly reported showing Glass to people who put it on, grinned, and immediately saw the potential. I didn't have that reaction.Miller sets out his reasons, which are straightforward, and come from actual use:"Glass didn't call out to me each day. I found the computing style tiresome."Issue 57560 - android - "Backup and restore" should offer encrypted backups - Android &gt;&gt; Google Project HostingThe "Back up my data" option in Android is very convenient. However it means sending a lot of private information, including passwords, in plaintext to Google. This information is vulnerable to government requests for data.You could implement this the same way Chrome's sync feature is implemented, with two options:* Encrypt synced passwords with your Google credentials* Encrypt all synced data with your own sync passphrase…While using Android requires a certain amount of trusting Google, I don't think it's rational to expect users to trust Google with their plaintext passwords when Google can be compelled to give this data to the US government when they request it.Browser tabs and battery life &gt;&gt; Wired ScienceRhett Allain:The data wasn't as clean as I thought it would be, but this still gives a general model for the power per tab. From this crappy data, I get a slope of around 0.19 Watts/tab for Safari and Chrome and around 0.16 watts/tab for Firefox.Even with the terrible data, I think it's safe to say that more tabs means more power. For simplicity, let's just say that it is about 0.18 watts per tab.If you have 100 tabs open at a time, you'll chop an hour off your battery life. (No word on what happens if any of them is running Flash, or if you kill it.)Dell buyout pushed to brink &gt;&gt; WSJDell's $24.4 billion buyout plan was foundering late Wednesday evening, as a group of big investors signaled their intent to vote against a deal that would remove the technology icon from the public markets. The new opposition from Vanguard Group, State Street Corp and BlackRock pushed the deal to a new level of brinkmanship, forcing Michael Dell and his backers to either sweeten the transaction or risk seeing the deal fail.Facebook mobile users jumped around 20% in US &amp; UK in June &gt;&gt; ReutersThe number of users accessing Facebook via their mobile phones in June jumped around 20 percent in the United States and Britain, the social network said, touting its appeal for brands trying to reach consumers during the summer months.Tumblr is pushing porn into an internet sex ghetto &gt;&gt; ValleywagThis will also make it just as hard for you to find porn on Tumblr, which is a really big deal for millions of people who use Tumblr. The same millions of people who Yahoo! wanted so badly to buy access to, in order to advertise to them. But no one will want to advertise to them if they're cruising for boobs. The problem here sounds confusing, but it's not: Yahoo! bought Tumblr to be cool. Tumblr was cool, in part, because you could stumble upon boobs or some kind of freaky-ass GIF or whatever the hell.You must read it for the payoff line. Or, if you prefer, the money shot.The top stereotypes about tech companies, as viewed through Google searches &gt;&gt; Yahoo! NewsThe auto-complete feature of Google's search engine can be used to conduct a kind of virtual insta-sociology: Type "Why is Portland so" or why "Why is California so," and the suggestions for completing your query offer one view of the "collective wisdom of the Internet" about a city or state.Apply the same thinking to tech companies. Smart, and funny.6,000 mobile developers: Android most popular, iOS most profitable, Windows Phone most 'next' &gt;&gt; VentureBeatThe biggest mobile developer study in history with 6,000 respondents from 115 countries says that while iOS developers make an average of $5,200 per month in app revenue and Android developers pull in $4,700, more developers plan to start developing for Windows Phone than any other platform.Besides Windows 8, that is.That's aided, of course, by the fact that 71% of mobile developers are already developing for Android, and 56% are already developing for iOS.Even so, the fact that 35% are planning to develop for Windows Phone in the third quarter of 2013 — more than the 26% thinking of iOS — is likely to have a significant impact on the number of Windows Phone apps.Lots of detail in the report.Jay-Z's Magna Carta Holy Grail app under investigation &gt;&gt; Guardian MusicA privacy advocacy group has asked the US Federal Trade Commission to investigate the app created for Jay-Z's new album, Magna Carta Holy Grail. The Electronic Privacy Information Centre (Epic) has accused Samsung of implementing software that is unnecessarily invasive, "depriving users of meaningful choice regarding the collection of their data".Around 1.2 million people installed Samsung's Android-enabled Magna Carta app, affording them early access to Jay-Z's new LP.The state of Windows tablets &gt;&gt; SuperSite for WindowsPaul Thurrott:While virtually all of today's Windows tablets are worthless, many touch-based Windows Ultrabooks and other PCs are in fact quite excellent. And when you consider that we are in a transitionary phase, moving from the monolithic PCs of the past to the highly portable devices of the future, maybe the best approach, circa-2013, is to buy a transitionary device and wait for the tablet stuff to figure itself out. That is, rather than buying a tablet, or some crazy transforming hoo-hickey, just get a gosh-darned Ultrabook. With touch.I've read recently that people aren't interested in touch-based PCs. That's ludicrous. As anyone who has actually used such a machine will tell you, once you go touch, you can't stop touching all screens.Don't try the screen-touching thing around designers. (Thanks @Avro for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
Facebook has bought Monoidics, a startup company from London's "Silicon Roundabout" which writes award-winning software for testing other software to check it doesn't have flaws. The price was undisclosed, but is thought to be in the low millions of pounds.Monoidics, started in 2009, writes "code verification software" using mathematical principles to determined whether a piece of software will execute correctly. The idea came out of a research project by co-founder Dino DiStefano, who with two colleagues developed "Infer", a program which could point to critical flaws such as "memory leaks" - which can make programs and computer crash - or conversely show that software was fine. Overall, 90% of crashes are caused by a single type of error.Monoidics started in 2009, and is reckoned to be profitable, with net assets of around £300,000 at the start of 2012 on turnover estimated at around £600,000 - though it has not filed annual accounts due at the end of 2012.The technical staff will join Facebook's London office once the deal is completed. Facebook refused to say how many people that will be, or how many non-technical staff currently working for Monoidics might lose their jobs as a result of the buyout.Silicon Roundabout - the name for the area around London's Old St roundabout - has become a hunting ground for a number of larger firms recently. In 2011Twitter bought UK startup Tweetdeckfor £25m, and Google has set up offices in the area too.
So far, 2013 has been Nintendo's annus horribilis. While the rest of the games industry has been working itself into a frenzy about the Christmas arrival of Sony's PlayStation 4 and Microsoft's Xbox One, gamers have shunned Nintendo's flagship console, the Wii U and as a result, Nintendo's recent quarterly results have been well below target – which is a very big deal for a Japanese company. So, are Nintendo's wheels falling off, or does the company have a plan to stop the slide?Who better to ask than the man who runs the company, president and CEO Satoru Iwata? We sat down with him for an interview at the E3 Show, in a room on the upstairs floor of Nintendo's stand. The interview was conducted via an interpreter – Iwata understands English perfectly, but isn't quite so confident about speaking it himself (although he came out with the odd English phrase). For such a captain of industry, he's surprisingly smiley, patient and approachable.Understandably, Iwata is keen to talk up the Wii U games Nintendo has lined up for the latter half of 2013 – the likes of Mario Kart 8, Super Mario 3D World, Donkey Kong Country Tropical Freeze, Pikmin 3 and Bayonetta 2 were well received, and Nintendo broke from tradition at the show by eschewing a press conference in favour of a hands-on session.But will they be enough to turn the Wii U around? Iwata thinks so, but at least he is under no illusions about the console's poor performance to date: "I'm very happy about the reactions from the visitors: they looked very happy about being able to play those games. And especially because Nintendo could not supply the market with strong software titles, one after the other, in the first half of 2013 and as a result, since we launched the Wii U, we haven't been able to provide any strong titles."But will those translate to decent Wii U hardware sales this Christmas? "That's what we are intending, and that will be the case by the end of this year. Now we are able to demonstrate so many strong software titles which will launch by the end of this year, starting from this summer and, after all, we really needed to energise the momentum of the Wii U, and that's what we are doing. Software sells hardware."Getting third parties on boardBut a console can't survive on first-party titles alone, and third-party publishers have been abandoning the Wii U in droves. What is Nintendo doing to get them back on board? "Now that Wii U has lost momentum in the first half of this year, it must be true that some of the third-party publishers and developers have made a weaker decision in terms of supporting it. However, now that we are offering to the world a strong software line-up, we are expecting Wii U hardware to regain its momentum. And regaining the Wii U's momentum must be the really big factor for us to encourage third-party publishers and developers to support it. At the same time, even though some of the developers and publishers are thinking twice about supporting the Wii U, it isn't everybody. The fact of the matter is that some of the third-party groups are strongly supporting it. And in addition to regaining the momentum of the Wii U hardware itself, what we really need to do is to establish successful examples of third-party Wii U titles."He won't, though, speculate about how many third-party Wii U titles will be in the shops this Christmas: "I actually do not see the point of trying to boast about the number of third-party titles available this year, but at least I can say that it's more than a few. At the heart of the matter is that there are third-party publishers who have not announced their software titles for the Wii U. So once again, we really need to make an effort to create the conditions and the circumstances in which the third-party publishers feel like supporting the Wii U, so that they can volunteer to announce which software will be launched at what time."Communicating the Wii U's appealHe does, though, agree that Nintendo hasn't made a decent fist of getting the Wii U's appeal across to the general public: "Yes, exactly, just as you said. In the case of the Wii, for example, just by bundling Wii Sports, it was easily conveyed to the consumers that the Wii was a very unique and different system. But in the case of the Wii U, we have not come to that stage yet. We hoped that Nintendo Land would have been able to execute that kind of responsibility, but for those people who have only seen how other people are playing with the Wii U and Nintendo Land, they could not know how uniquely different the Wii U is from the Wii. As a result, Wii U is a machine for which the evaluation differs greatly depending on whether you own it at home or not. So, what we really need to do now is to launch software titles for the Wii U that can take advantage of its unique aspects, one after the other. So much so that a great number of people are able to touch the Wii U and feel how unique it is. We need to expand the number of such people. And once the number of people has reached critical mass, I think the public view of Nintendo will be changed."The Nintendo faithful are also clamouring for a new, Wii U-specific Zelda game and on that front, Iwata has encouraging news: "It is true that Mr Aonuma's team has been working on a new Zelda title for the Wii U. But the only announcement we have at this time of software which will soon become available is WindWaker HD. But they are actually working on an exclusive new Wii U title in the Zelda franchise and I hope in the not-too-distant future, we will be able to make the relevant announcement."3DS: a quiet hitAmid all the doom and gloom surrounding the Wii U, Nintendo can at least draw consolation from the success (little remarked upon) of the 3DS handheld – achieved despite dire predictions at its launch that handheld games consoles would no longer be able to cope with the rise of mobile phones as gaming platforms: "Some indie developers have told us that when they offer the same software on iOS and Android, and in the eShop on Nintendo 3DS, the 3DS eShop version sells most. There are various theories that people often talk about, because there has been such an expansion of mobile devices, that handheld videogame devices won't sell any more. But the fact is, last year in Japan, approximately 5.5m unit sales were made for the Nintendo 3DS, and as you might expect in Japan, 2012 was a phenomenal year for smart devices. But when we look at any hit, popular handheld game devices, the only hardware which managed to sell more than 5m units in one year was the 3DS – that took the DS three years."Globally, Iwata says that the 3DS is on track to sell 18m units this year, which is even more impressive – and one in the eye for those who contend that Nintendo's day is done, even if the Wii U remains something of a passenger. With Nintendo missing recent targets, there has been some speculation that Iwata might be in line for the sack. But he's confident that Nintendo will get back on track financially, and even jokes about his future prospects: "That's our goal – by regaining the Wii U momentum and reproducing what is happening in the Japanese market with the 3DS, into the rest of the world, including the US and Europe, we really want to make it happen. After seeing that kind of result, I'm hoping to be able to see you again next year."
Six people have been wrongly detained and falsely accused of crimes in the past year as a result of mistakes made in the official disclosure of confidential data on their internet use to the police and security services.Theannual report from an official watchdog(pdf) – the interception of communications commissioner – reveals that official requests for data-tracking of individuals' internet and phone use has soared by 15% in the past year to 570,135 requests.The vast majority were made by the security services and the police, but 160 local authorities made 2,605 requests to identify fly tippers, counterfeit goods traders and those engaged in consumer ripoffs.Sir Paul Kennedy, the retiring commissioner for official snooping, attributes the 70,000 increase to security operations for the London 2012 Olympics. He says in his annual report that huge intelligence and investigative benefits can be reaped from lawful interception and communications data, but warns that such operations have the potential to be highly intrusive.He discloses that nearly 979 errors were made during such interception operations during 2012, often involving monitoring data from the wrong telephone numbers, email addresses or over the wrong time period. In about 20% of cases, the internet and phone companies handed over the wrong internet and phone records to the authorities."In the vast majority of these cases, the mistake was realised, the public authority (and the communications service provider, if applicable) reported the error to my team, and the data that was acquired wrongly was destroyed as it had no relevance to the investigation," said Kennedy in his report, published on Thursday. "Regretfully in six separate cases this year, the mistake was not realised and action was taken by the police forces/law enforcement agencies on the data received. All of these cases were requests for internet data. Regrettably, five of these errors had very significant consequences for six members of the public who were wrongly detained/accused of crimes as a result of the errors."The remaining one error also caused an intrusion into the privacy of an individual, as an address was mistakenly visited by police looking for a child who had threatened to commit self harm," the commissioner reports.He also says he was notified of a system fault at one internet company last year that may have led to incorrect data being disclosed to the police and security services.Thousands of disclosure requests were checked manually and it was found that errors had been made in 39 cases. In nearly all cases the mistakes were discovered before the information was acted on. In one case where no data had been originally provided, the manual check returned a positive identification on the owner of an internet address and led to his arrest for the possession of indecent images of children.Shami Chakrabarti, director of Liberty, expressed alarm at the growing scale of disclosure of personal communications data: "Cardinal Richelieu promised to be able to hang most honest men with just 'six lines' written by their hand," she said. "Imagine how easy it is with thousands of text messages, emails and website visits to make each and every one of us look like a criminal. So much for the innocent having nothing to hide and so-called 'communications data' not being an intrusion on our privacy."
An alliance of US technology companies – including the "big five" named in the NSA's Prism project – and civil liberties groups have written to President Barack Obama and the leaders of the US Senate and House of Representatives demanding to be allowed to publish data about secret demands for user data.AOL, Apple, Facebook, Google, Microsoft and Yahoo are among 46 signatories to the letter asking to publish "specific numbers" of requests under the US Patriot Act and Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). All six were named as among those participating in the Prism project.In all, 22 companies have signed the letter and 24 pressure groups, including the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) and Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), which have both been vocal in their criticism of NSA acquisition of data revealed by the Guardian over the past two months.Yet US phone groups such as AT&amp;T and Verizon did not join the signatories. A document detailing how Verizon is obliged to make phone call metadata – such as numbers, times and duration – available to the NSA triggered off the row about data and privacy when the Guardian made its existence public in June.The demand for publication comes as pressure on the US government grows in the face of the widening revelations about the extent and ease of the National Security Agency (NSA) access to personal data.On Wednesday a sometimes heated hearing of the House Judiciary Committee saw both Republican and Democrat politicians claim that the administration had overstepped its authority in the breadth of its data collection.Some indicated that they might seek to revoke or not renew the NSA's powers to collect data such as phone call "metadata" in bulk.The signatories to the letter also demand that the government issue its own annual "transparency report" providing the same information: "the total number of requests under specific [national security] authorities for specific types of data, and the number of individuals affected by each".They also call on the Senate and House of Representatives to pass laws requiring that transparency from the government, and allowing companies to publish data about the number of FISA and Patriot requests without seeking permission from the secret FISA court.The move follows similar calls to be allowed to publish FISA statistics by individual companies including Google, Microsoft and Yahoo. But now it has the force of a concerted effort, as some have grown concerned at the commercial impact of the revelations that the NSA can access data stored on the cloud servers of Google or Microsoft. Facebook, Yahoo and Apple have also been concerned at the potential harm to user trust in their privacy.
Has social gaming lost its soul? In its early days on Facebook, the talk was of bringing gaming to a much wider audience, and connecting people through play: games as a vehicle for communication between friends.In 2013, there are few too many social games that feel more like vehicles for monetisation, where the art and craft of game design has mutated into a science of getting people to spend more money, with social features relegated to the role of just another potential purchasing trigger.Matthew Wiggins has seen the shifting sands of social gaming close up. Having worked at Lionhead Studios, Linden Lab and Codemasters, in 2009 he founded his own studio, Wonderland Software, to make mobile games.It released a game named GodFinger in 2009 through publisher ngmoco, which was one of the first companies to kickstart the free-to-play social mobile gaming bandwagon in the West, after Apple opened up in-app purchases to free iOS games in October 2009.In April 2011, Wonderland was bought by social games giant Zynga, where Wiggins spent 20 months as general manager of its Zynga Mobile UK studio. He left in November 2012, lay low for six months, and then announced a new indie studio namedJiggeryPokery.The studio has been set up to work on multiplayer games "taking inspiration from everything from your favourite family board games to the latest digital battling games", with a strong emphasis on community features around each title."I don't really care how much money we make in the first week or month. I want to make something that people will still be playing in two, three or five years time, and build that community around it," says Wiggins."It's a totally virtuous thing: we want to make a good amount of revenue for a long time, but the only way we're going to do that is if players enjoy it enough."App Store historyJiggeryPokery's first game will come out in the Autumn, but it hasn't been announced yet. Instead, Wiggins is bursting with views on the evolution of social gaming, free-to-play business models and mobile platforms which bodes well for his future plans.It's worth remembering why independent developers were so excited about mobile games when the App Store launched in 2008, compared to the existing mobile games industry that was based around mobile operators' games portals and projects like Nokia's N-Gage."You had these incumbents who totally owned the means of distribution, and they would take a huge cut of any revenue from it. And the revenue was so small because the devices were shit," says Wiggins, who notes that in 2008, setting up shop as a indie console developer was also tough."The App Store was an amazing creative opportunity with a whole new class of devices, and a whole new way of interacting with them. It totally unlocked this opportunity to make mainstream products without the kind of risk or the kind of money that it previously took game developers to go out on their own."Has the apps era delivered on this potential, though? Some might argue that in 2013, setting up as an indie mobile games developer is even more risky, with crowded app stores, near-impregnable top 10 charts and the expectation that your games will have to be initially given away for free.Wiggins is still an iOS fan, praising Apple for the way it manages its App Store in comparison to some of the other digital distribution channels for games."Apple are very even-handed in the way they treat people, in terms of not favouring the biggest companies over smaller ones. As a small startup without millions of quid in investment or an established presence, that gives you an extremely level playing field in which to operate," says Wiggins."Apple don't tend to favour anybody, or at least, the only people they actually favour are the people buying their devices. They're a fair dictator in that sense, they want to provide the best experience for those people, and if you have the same point-of-view as Apple – which we totally have – that can be a very good thing."The obvious comparisons are to Android's Google Play store, which in 2013 is getting a steadily-growing number of new mobile games alongside or shortly after their iOS releases, and to Valve's desktop-based Steam service."Steam is a dictatorship again, but the way they operate is very unpredictable. And because Valve are also a games company, there's a conflict of interest there too. There's also some messiness around how their green-light process works," says Wiggins."And Google Play is kind of a free-for-all: a strange environment that's not high-quality, and very fragmented. Android could do with having a stronger, clearer dictatorship, and Steam could do with being more open and less autocratic. Apple, I think, have shown a very good stewardship of the App Store."GodFinger was Wonderland Software's first mobile game in 2009Business senseIt's still a daunting market for new, small games studios bringing their spade to the App Store gold-rush though. Wiggins has plenty of views on how independent firms need to marry creative and commercial instincts to give themselves the best shot at success."The best businesses marry your creative goals with a really strong business sense. The only way that you're going to continue to make really cool things is by making enough money," he says."But you have to manage it so that if you're financially successful, you still have those creative goals. Otherwise you're just a hollow moneymaking machine. And a lot of people get that wrong."Wiggins suggests that a lot of independent developers still want to "just sit down and make a really cool game" and don't want to think about the business side of it, while the other extreme are companies who see games purely as moneymaking devices."When we're thinking about what excites us about a particular concept, we're also thinking about how we're going to get people to know about that, have fun in it and want to spend money in it, so we can continue to be successful," he says."So we're thinking about how to market it, how to manage our community: all the things that go towards making a business versus just making a hobby. Yet a lot of games people still don't want to even think about marketing. You've got to be excited by that whole process, not just the making of the thing."Big guns challengesAre big companies better placed to succeed in mobile games? Not necessarily, according to Wiggins, who thinks many struggle for the nimbleness required to adapt to mobile trends and the demands of players.Companies like Zynga, EA and Activision have varying strategies and success on mobile, but they're united in being outshined – for the moment, anyway – by games from companies like Supercell, King, GungHo Online and (to a lesser extent, because half its revenues come from physical products) Rovio."What they should be worried about is they don't need the number of people that they've got to make successful games. It's probably not a good idea to have 80 people working on a mobile game for two years," says Wiggins."As Supercell have shown, it's about small cross-discipline teams with ownership over their games: making them, testing them and putting them out. Then you start to ramp the thing up. The risk is much lower than if you're someone like Bungie putting together [console game] Destiny."He continues: "God knows how much money that's costing you, and you need to guarantee that it will be a hit. Over time, the industry will support less of those companies. We're moving towards a film industry model, where a small number of very large companies can put a lot of money into games and turn them into an event," he says."But there's only so many of those humungous hits you can have. But the App Store supports that whole idea of smaller, more agile things. It's a tough environment for companies who think in terms of big, big budgets and big, big marketing."Free-to-pay?Some of the games making big, big revenues on the App Store are the ones viewed with most suspicion by keen gamers and games developers for the way they make money from in-app purchases in their ostensibly free-to-play games.That's evolved into a distrust – within what you might consider traditional gaming circles – of free-to-play as a business model in itself. Not a view that Wiggins agrees with."Free-to-play should be an honest business model. What it says is 'you don't have to give me any money to play this game – you can play it for as long as you want to decide if it's worth you spending money on it'," says Wiggins."It's about us as developers making something of value to you before you get to spend money, rather than getting you to spend £40 on a console game based on a review that has probably been paid for by the people who have published that game."It's a sharp and likely controversial point to make: that exploitation of gamers isn't a trend invented in the apps era. Review score-related skeletons have been popping out of the console industry's cupboard for some time now without condemning the entire boxed-game business model.But Wiggins doesn't gloss over some of the negative aspects of what's been happening on mobile either."Once you have someone who has paid you money, that relationship can then turn exploitative. Some of the chasing whales thing can get really out of hand, when you're identifying people willing to spend a lot of money," he says."Maybe they have got a lot of money, but where you have to be careful is if someone is living on the breadline and putting £100 a week into one of these games. You don't want to effectively cause people to be addicted in a gambling way."Wiggins thinks Supercell's Clash of Clans gets its approach to players rightInvestment pressureThis isn't inherently a problem with free-to-play: Wiggins points out that "anything you spend money on" can have these addictive qualities that are ripe for unethical exploitation.He does see some factors in the investment ecosystem around free-to-play mobile games that may encourage it, though."The way that some of the tech industry and startup ecosystem is structured supports incredibly short-term revenue targets," says Wiggins."If you're VC-backed and the only way you're going to make money is to float it – which is now relatively unlikely – or sell the business to someone, you have to show the maximum amount of revenue as soon as you possibly can, and reach a peak right as you sell the company."Hence the temptation to focus on short-term gain (and possibly pain for players) over building a sustainable, ethical business for the long-term.Wiggins does see companies who are taking the latter approach, including some with the most popular games. Rovio, for example, which ended 2012 with 263m monthly active players of its Angry Birds games."What they've done well is that people will describe themselves as 'an Angry Birds player'. I wouldn't think people would say they're 'a Candy Crush Saga player' – it's one of those spike-y games that people play for a few months, and then something else comes along," says Wiggins.He also thinks Supercell has taken the right path so far with its Clash of Clans and Hay Day games, which harvested the company $179m of revenues in the first quarter of 2013 alone."They've done an exceptionally good job of marrying social features with slightly deeper gameplay mechanics, but the principle thing they've developed is that sense of community and servicing it really well," says Wiggins."It feels like they care, and it's helping them to make a lot of money because they're not trying to bleed their players dry. They know that the long-term success of their company is going to be made from players who love those games."Social resurgenceHe's optimistic that more companies will come along with these attitudes and find similar, sustainable success – and naturally he's hoping JiggeryPokery will be one of them.More social games with their sense of soul? It would be a welcome trend, reminding players of those early ambitions on Facebook."Social games is a really nice idea, with lots of concepts that are exciting and interesting. The idea of connecting people through games is a really admirable goal. But where social games went was viral marketing," says Wiggins."That's what the companies ended up gravitating towards: using a social network to market your game by getting people to spam their friends. I don't think that's social gaming, but that's what 'social games' now means. Spamming someone's Facebook feed is not a meaningful interaction."So what is? "Playing, constructing something, then sending it to a friend and seeing what they can do with it? That is a meaningful interaction. Making a game that's social is all about real people interacting with one another, and enjoying that interaction," he says."The Facebook market is dropping off quite a bit with players becoming relatively de-sentitized to cheap viral marketing tactics. I think developers will start to rethink their approaches quite a bit."
I had two Hotmail accounts back in the heady days when I was young and in a band. Although I know the email addresses, I have completely lost access to them. It appears they've been hacked, and I have failed all attempts through Microsoft's automated questionnaire. My main concern is that there is info in them that could lead to identity theft and financial fraud.Richard MA lot of people used Hotmail for temporary accounts, or set up accounts that they rarely if ever used. Microsoft only counted "active" accounts and took draconian measures to deal with ones that weren't. If you opened an account and did not use it for 10 days, Microsoft deleted it. If you failed to log on for 30 days, Microsoft deleted your email and contacts, but did not delete the account. If you logged on within 90 days, you could retrieve your account — and your email address — but not your email. After 90 days, Microsoft deleted the account and eventually recycled the address.I'm confident that all the contents of your two old Hotmail accounts will have been deleted. That's why you can't recover them using the page forForgotten password or other sign-in problems.Go toOutlook.comand try to create new accounts using your old addresses. (Outlook.com has replaced Hotmail and Live Mail, but Microsoft still allows users to create accounts using these old addresses.) If they are still available, grab them. If they are not available, then Microsoft has returned these names to the pool and someone else has taken them. The new owners would see your efforts to gain access as hacking attempts.These new owners will not have access to your old email or contacts, but they will have different security questions, which is why you can't answer them. However, some of your old contacts might still use these addresses. If so, I would expect the emails to be delivered to what are now the "wrong" people. There's not much you can do about this, except make sure you have sent your current email address to all the people you know.Security problemsThere is, unfortunately, a potential security problem with recycling email addresses. If you have used these Hotmail addresses to sign up for any other services, such as Facebook, then you may be at risk. One of the new users could ask a service for a password re-set on one of your accounts, and that service will send the re-set email to the old address. The current (wrong) user will then be able to change the password to your account, and take it over.Obviously, this is easier with email addresses based on recognisable names. If your account was something anonymous like syzygy@hotmail.com then they may not know your real name, unless they receive emails intended for you. But it's not hard to guess that someone who used Fred.Bloggs@hotmail.com as an email address will have Facebook and other accounts under the same name.It's therefore important that you make sure that none of the services you use today – especially any financial services – is linked to one of your old Hotmail addresses.Of course, once Microsoft has closed an account, further emails will be "bounced": they will be marked as undeliverable and returned to the sender. Sensible people and properly-run companies will notice these bounced emails and stop using that address to email you. However, people who rarely send you email may not see any bounces, or may not act on them.The problem is about to go beyond Hotmail. Anyone who has ever used a Yahoo email address to sign up for services should also make sure they have a firm grip on that account, or remove it from other services. In ablog poston 12 June, Yahoo's Jay Rossiter announced that "We're freeing up IDs, that have been inactive for at least 12 months" so other users can claim them. If you didn't log on before 15 July, then you have probably lost your moribund Yahoo email address.As I have been saying for more than a decade, it's better to register your own domain name and use that as an email address. If possible, pay for it for a decade in advance. You can, of course, lose a domain name by forgetting to renew it, but at least you only have to remember to do it every two, five or 10 years. For details, see my earlier answersMaster your domainandSolve email problems forever by setting up Gmail with your own domain.Never lose your emails!For backup purposes, I set up email accounts in pairs, on different services. I use one as the primary email account (with my own domain name) and the other as a forwarding address. In other words, everything sent to the main email address is automatically forwarded to the second account. It's quite common for people to be locked out of one email address, through no fault of their own, but I reckon I'd be very unlucky to be locked out of two at the same time.It's also a good idea to use a proper email program such as Microsoft Outlook, Windows Live Mail,Mozilla Thunderbirdor possiblyeM Client 5to download and answer emails. Email programs are quicker than web-based email, can consolidate many different webmail accounts in one place, offer many more features for sorting (by sender, by subject line etc) and searching, let you answer emails while you're offline, and guarantee that you have copies of your emails even if you lose access to your account. If you use the IMAP setting, or the more powerful Microsoft Exchange protocols, then you can leave copies of emails on the server. This means you can still access your emails from different PCs and other devices while on the move.Both Gmail and Outlook.com are suitable free email addresses, and there's not much to choose between them nowadays. Sadly, I find Yahoo mail now almost unusable, and I'd recommend against using it.FastMailis a good premium service but it only costs $4.95 per year for home users, and $15 per year for business users; there's a 60-day free trial with no credit card required.Happily, you no longer have to log in to Hotmail every month to keep your mailbox. Outlook.com, Hotmail and other Microsoft services now stay active unless you fail to log on for 270 days, which is almost nine months. The old rule about logging in within the first 10 days still applies.Both Gmail and Outlook.com encourage you to enter an alternative email address and a phone number to help you to recover an account if you have problems logging in. If you do have problems, it's very handy to have a security code sent to your mobile phone... as long as you don't lose your phone. Scott Hanselman has a useful post onSetting up Two-Factor Authentication for your Google account and Microsoft account.
Fans of Atoms for Peace can't listen to their albums on Spotify and other streaming music services, after Thom Yorke'sotherbandwithdrew their back catalogue earlier in the weekin protest at payouts to musicians.Other digital music services are more to the band's liking though. Next week, Atoms for Peace will be selling audio and video of two gigs at London's Roundhouse venue during the performances, making each song available shortly after its performance.The band have teamed up with British startupSoundhalo, which launched earlier this year with a similar partnership with Mercury Music Prize-winning band Alt-J.Fans will be able to download and play the Atoms for Peace live tracks and videos through Soundhalo's website, or its apps for iPhone, iPad and Android devices.It costs £9.99 to pre-order an entire set from one of the two sold-out gigs through Soundhalo, compared with the £49.50 (plus booking fees) it would have cost to buy a ticket to one of the concerts.Band-member and producer Nigel Godrich – whose tweets ignited the row over Spotify payouts earlier in the week – claimed that selling official audio and video of gigs provides an alternative to user-generated footage elsewhere on the web."Part of the reason soundhalo was interesting to me was that I found myself wondering why, whenever you go to a gig, the next day there are a million shaky, horrible sounding YouTube videos already online," he said."But you go and look because you want to see something of your experience. Soundhalo provides something really functional – an experience that you want to remember in front of you as soon as the concert has happened. To be able to relive that is a really great thing."Godrich and Yorke have continued to respond to criticism and questions of their stance on Spotify and its streaming-music rivals over the course of this week."Not enjoyed being target for facile mudslinging we've the right to discuss and optout of #Spotify. debate is important,"tweeted Yorke on Wednesday, with a link tofellow artist Sam Duckworth's article for the Guardiancriticising Spotify.Godrich has focused more on retweeting supportive comments and links to articles backing the band's stance, even as Spotify execs have been retweeting messages of support and articles backing them.Spotify has alsopublished a report by its director of economics Will Pageusing the Netherlands as a case study to prove that streaming music services have eaten into piracy much more than they have cannibalised legal sales there.The company remains embroiled in the debate sparked by Atoms for Peace around its value for new artists, but the band's Soundhalo partnership may provide inspiration for those peers in two other ways.First, it's a reminder that there are more opportunities than ever for bands to work directly with technology startups, rather than purely leaving these kinds of deals to their labels.Second, that while sales (and streams) of recorded music remain the biggest source of income for most musicians, there are a growing number of other ways to make money from their music.Selling digital access to concerts isn't a new trend, from pay-per-view webcasts and subscription-based services likeConcert Vault, through to websites likeNugs.netwhere bands including Metallica, Pearl Jam and the Black Crowes sell MP3s of their concerts.
Nokia made an operating loss of €115m (£98.8m) in the second quarter, with revenues falling 24% to €5.7bn, as it struggled to turn its handset business around.However, the Finnish mobile company's Lumia smartphones finally outsold rival BlackBerry, a key milestone in its attempt to establish itself as the "third ecosystem" in market dominated by Apple and Google's Android.Nokia's shares fell by 3% on the Helsinki stock exchange in early trading.The company also saw an outflow of nearly 10% of its net cash over the quarter to just €4.07bn, which has led some analysts to express concerns about its future viability if the handset business does not improve. The company has made operating losses totalling €4.1bn in the past nine quarters.Only Nokia Siemens Networks, its joint venture for the mobile infrastructure business, generated an operating profit, of €8m on revenues of €2.78bn. Nokia took full control of the business after the quarter ended, buying the other 50% for €1.7bn.The handset business lost €33m on revenues of €2.72bn, down 32% from a year ago and down 6% sequentially. A key problem was China, where the volume of sales fell by 48% as buyers there shift to smartphones – often running versions of the Android software – made by indigenous companies. Nokia's handset revenues are now smaller than at any time since 2002.Chief executive Stephen Elop pointed to non-IFRS figures – which exclude asset depreciation, special items, amortisation and inventory adjustments – suggesting that the group made an underlying operating profit of €303m after excluding writedowns of €97m at its Here maps division and €320m at NSN.Elop said: "Our mobile phones business unit started to demonstrate signs of recovery in the latter part of the second quarter following a difficult start to the year." But he said it would "take actions to focus its product offering and improve product competitiveness."Nokia's attempts to break back into the US smartphone market have so far failed. It sold just 0.5m Lumias in North America in the latest quarter than a year ago, when it managed 0.6m. "Zero traction," said Benedict Evans, technology and media analyst at Enders Analysis. But he said that with 7.4m Lumias sold, "Nokia is now selling comparable volumes to the second-tier Android OEMs" – such as Sony, LG and HTC."Nokia continues to show no signs of recovery in the US market,"observedFrancisco Jeronimo, smartphones analyst for the research company IDC. "High investments, high expectations, low results."For years the largest maker of mobile phones in the world, Nokia has fallen on hard times following the launch of the iPhone and the rise of Android phones, which have eaten away at its base in developing markets such as Africa, India and especially China.Smartphones made up only 40% of Nokia's phone revenues, compared with far higher proportions at almost every other handset manufacturer. Apple, BlackBerry and HTC only sell smartphones, which can presently command higher prices and margins than "feature phones".Nokia's high-end feature phone, the Asha, intended to compete with cheap Android phones in China, Asia and Africa, saw falling sales too – down from 5m the previous quarter to 4.3m. The figure was the lowest in the four quarters that the Asha range has been on sale.Elop decided not to go with Android when he took over in September 2010, worried that it would be dominated by a single manufacturer – as has happened with Samsung.Instead he opted for Microsoft's new Windows Phone software, which powers the Lumia range. He said in January 2011 that the smartphone business was "not a battle of devices, it's now a war of ecosystems".However iPhone and Android have since become entrenched, controlling about 90% of handset sales worldwide, with Android dominating in Europe and Asia.BlackBerry, however, has fallen behind: its 6.8m handset sales in the quarter to the end of May mean that the Lumia range has outsold it for the first time.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers."There Is No Evil Scheme Behind It": A Q&amp;A with Candy Crush Games Guru | Valley WagIn which King exec, Tommy Palm, assures us that his addictive match-three puzzler is not a demonic curse on the world:"There is no evil scheme behind it. It's more of a traditional scheme where we focus on making a great user experience."Remember that when you miss your stop on the train because you're stuck on level 65.PS4, Xbox One and the Quest to Escape The Uncanny Valley | GamesIndustry InternationalSpeaking with GamesIndustry International, Square Enix worldwide technology director Julien Merceron said he's hopeful that the next-gen systems will lead to significant advancements in AI, but he agrees that completely escaping the uncanny valley will remain incredibly difficult."I still believe it's going to be a long journey before we can sit together and you can show me a game that has nailed it," he said. "It's our duty to make progress on this front in this generation."PS4 and Xbox One graphics will certainly help add to a game's realism, but initially that next-gen leap may be somewhat lacking. "If improved graphics aren't combined with better animation, all these games are going to dive into the uncanny valley. So it's possible around the launch timeframe that we won't actually see huge improvements in graphics because the developers still have to sort out how they will approach animation. That generally takes more time than upgrading your rendering engine."Michel Ancel Discusses Beyond Good &amp; Evil 2 | IGNAt a Rayman Legends event in San Francisco this week, IGN spoke with Beyond Good &amp; Evil creator Michel Ancel about what's going on with the sequel, plus what its shift to next-gen consoles will allow it to do."I think we were doing something too big for this period," Ancel told IGN. "Honestly, it was too challenging to put that on [current] consoles. I don't say the consoles were not good enough, I don't say the team was not good enough, but you have to scale what you want to do and the console itself. I think now with those new consoles arriving, yes, we want to try again making that game. I would say it's surprising, as we want it to be. Not just a sequel, but something that really makes all the ideas that we had for the first one possible now with these consoles."Oh Michel, you are such atease.Lego Is Making Two New Minecraft Sets | GizmodoUh-oh:The official Lego Minecraft set has been such an amazing success that Lego and Swedish game developer Mojang have decided to expand the line with two new official sets: the Village and the Nether.And the Nether set comes with a Zombie Pigman!Regular Show 3DS game takes Mordecai and Rigby to 8-Bit Land | PolygonRegular Show's video game debut will be Mordecai and Rigby in 8-Bit Land — a 3DS title that merges a side-scrolling shoot-em up with platforming and top-down exploration, according to developer WayForward Technologies.Speaking to Polygon, Regular Show: Mordecai and Rigby in 8-Bit Land director Jeff Luke said the development team worked closely with Regular Show creator J. G. Quintel to ensure that the game's story and mechanics were in the spirit of the Cartoon Network series. On Quintel's instruction, the development team focused heavily on video game culture, with the game itself paying homage to the 8-Bit era through its music (all sounds in the game are made from emulated old Nintendo consoles), in-game items (players can collect "gold tapes", cash to buy games and mullets to wear on their head) and the game design itself (it merges three popular formats from the 8-bit era).Look, we know that handheld console tie-ins with cartoons are almost always awful but... this is Regular Show!Super TIME Force trailer makes a big mess, saves a few lives | JoystiqThis innovative puzzler from the creators of Sword and Sworcery looks awesome:Capy Games' Super TIME Force now features an overhauled time mechanic different from the last time we saw it. Rather than making players go through the entire stage again to reach the point they died, thus resuming their progress, players can now jump around a timeline and respawn anywhere.And here'sthe official websiteto find out more.A Free, Improved Co-op Version of Half-Life? Where Do I Sign Up? | KotakuNew improved co-op Half-Life! If you haven't tried it before, this is the time to start:The developers of Sven Co-op, a nearly fifteen-years-old but still regularly updated mod that lets you play Valve's original Half-Life cooperatively with friends online, announced that their creation is heading to Steam as a free stand-alone game. With huge improvements.In a post published on the mod's official website, the team revealed that Valve not only agreed to put Sven Co-op on Steam as a separate game (that includes the original Half-Life campaign, to boot), but also gave them access to GoldSrc, the engine powering Half-Life and its expansions, Opposing Force and Blue Shift. This allows them to greatly improve user experience by making modifications and improvements directly to the game engine.Along with Black Mesa, it's interesting to see how third-party developers are stepping in to feed the global Gordan Freeman addiction in the continued absence of Half-Life 3...You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
A burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamA primer on metadata: separating fact from fiction &gt;&gt; Privacy By DesignAnn Cavoukian:A Primer on Metadata: Separating Fact from Fictionexplains that metadata can actually be more revealing than accessing the content of our communications. The paper aims to provide a clear understanding of metadata and disputes popular claims that the information being captured is neither sensitive, nor privacy-invasive, since it does not access any content. Given the implications for privacy and freedom, it is critical that we all question the dated, but ever-so prevalent either/or, zero-sum mindset to privacy vs. security.Cavoukian is the information and privacy commissioner for Ontario, Canada.China now has 591 million internet users, 460 million mobile netizens &gt;&gt; TechInAsiaThe mobile web number of 460 million has doubled since December 2009. Of course, a lot more people in China than that have phones, with over 1.1 billion phone subscriptions at the last count. It's worth remembering that, as we've reported before, China has over 300 million 3G users, which will help push forward smartphone usage and shift even more web browsing and other activities to phones.70% of new web users do so via their phone."Everybody has got a smartphone" &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dediu, countering the claims of a UBS analyst (as in the headline):The data shows that churn between platforms (except for BlackBerry) is still negligible and that the majority of user losses can be attributed to non-smart devices.To summarize, with penetration now at about 60% in the US, the rate of adoption of smartphones is not slowing in any perceptible way.So not only is there no saturation, but there is no slowing of adoption of smartphones in the US, the most penetrated large market.Globally, the penetration of smartphones is less than half of that in the US. About 4 billion people are about to switch.If anything, smartphone adoption as a percentage of remaining non-smart users is actually rising. But it's always worth pointing out that the US is an unusual market because of the distortions introduced by its contracts - SIM-only deals are pretty much unheard of, for example.NEC to exit smartphone business after failed deal with Lenovo &gt;&gt; ReutersNEC, once a market leader in the smartphones business in Japan, currently has a market share of about 5 percent, the business daily said.The Japanese company will now focus on conventional handsets and plans to sell some of its mobile phone-related patents, according to the Nikkei.Yahoo!'s Mayer turns in another stable quarter, yet sales disappoint &gt;&gt; The RegisterYahoo!'s earnings for the its second quarter of 2013 roughly matched analysts' expectations, and CEO Marissa Meyer says she's "encouraged" by the company's performance. Revenue, however, continues to be a problem for the troubled firm.It's been one year since Mayer was tapped for the top spot at Yahoo!, and to her credit a lot has changed. Net income for the quarter ending June 30, 2013 was $331m or $0.30 per share, a healthy 46 per cent increase over Q2 of 2012.Apple owns 56% of the streaming devices market, Roku second &gt;&gt; StreamingMediaBlogApple accounts for the majority of sales by far, despite offering relatively narrow content access – this is not (yet) a market being driven by the value proposition of a streaming TV experience. AppleTV's AirPlay feature was strategically crafted to simplify the process of transferring laptop and tablet displays to a TV screen, and it is AirPlaying – not OTT streaming – that is the primary reason for purchase of AppleTV devices. Roku is the second largest vendor in this space and is driving growth through a strong lineup of content as well as through a series of agreements with Pay TV vendors such as Time Warner Cable. The long-term potential for this segment does remain uncertain. It is important to note that while current growth rates are high, the total installed base of $99 streaming boxes is quite low.How Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer plans to tackle video &gt;&gt; DigitsYahoo took the unprecedented step of broadcasting live video of its second-quarter earnings call. Perhaps it's fitting, then, that CEO Marissa Mayer talked up video as a top priority for the Internet company.Mayer, amid questions about the topic during the webcast, pledged to make video a "primary area of investment over the next year"–and gave some insight into how she plans to do that.UK to test driverless cars on public roads before the end of 2013 &gt;&gt; EngadgetThe initial trial runs will be gentle -- Oxford University's Nissan Leaf-based RobotCars will drive only on lightly trafficked roads, with humans tagging along in the event of a crisis.Sony coughs up £250K ICO fine after security fears &gt;&gt; The RegisterSony has begrudgingly abandoned its fight to contest a £250,000 fine handed down by the Information Commissioner's Office after its massive 2011 PlayStation Network data breach.Sony has now decided not to fight the fine, despite still strongly opposing it, because of fears the Information Rights Tribunal would have forced it to divulge sensitive details about its network security set-up.Security flaw discovered in Tumblr iOS app &gt;&gt; AllThingsDTumblr, the massive Web blogging network acquired by Yahoo earlier this year, disclosed on Tuesday evening a security issue on its iOS mobile application that "allowed passwords to be compromised in certain circumstances."Google Maps finally lands on the iPad &gt;&gt; WiredToday's Google Maps app update for iOS includes nearly all the new features that debuted in last week's big update for Android. Also, the iOS version, which you can download now, includes support for all handsets and tablets running iOS 6: the iPhone, iPod Touch and the iPad.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.• This article was amended on 18 July 2013. Ann Cavoukian is the information and privacy commissioner for Ontario, not Canada.
It's Thursday.
