The protection racket is one of the oldest criminal ploys in the world, but it has been given a 21st century twist. Out go the knuckledusters and the baseball bats; in come "bots" - internet weapons designed to hold corporations to ransom.Gangs based in Russia and eastern Europe are suspected of using the technology to paralyse companies' internet operations, thus disrupting their business. Online attacks have become so serious that British detectives from the National Hi-Tech Crime Unit (NHTCU) have flown to Russia to try to trace the culprits.The crooks operate by spreading a rogue code, known as a bot, which links as many as 30,000 computers together without their owners' knowledge. These are then activated to bombard company websites with thousands of bogus queries a second, blocking all genuine transactions and communications - a "denial of service" attack.The criminals then send an email saying the company must pay a ransom or face renewed bombardment.Last week, extortionists tried to gain $10,000 ($5,400) from Protx, an online payments firm, while the Blue Square gambling site was told that emails containing child pornography would be sent out in its name if it refused to pay &euro;7,000 (&#163;4,500).Worldpay, the Royal Bank of Scotland's payments business, and Secpay, another online company, have also been targeted in the past few months.The NHTCU, set up in April 2001 to tackle the explosion in internet scams, comprises investigators and computer experts from the National Crime Squad, National Criminal Intelligence Service, Customs, the military, and the intelligence agencies.Three-quarters of the unit's caseload is now online theft and extortion, which costs UK business hundreds of millions of pounds a year.Chief Superintendent Mick Deats, who heads the 57-strong NHTCU, said: "The internet has no geographical boundaries. It is completely porous, and is therefore seen as a low-risk arena as an attack can be launched from any remote region of the world."The unit has recently been helped by new cross-border agreements. But Ch Supt Deats said: "Over the past three years, we've got a feel for the coordinated, sophisticated, sustained attacks that are the hallmarks of organised criminals."Organised criminal gangs frequently have IT experts within their ranks, or hire them for specific jobs. Big companies also have to be alert to the possibility of criminals trying to bribe their IT staff. Last year, more than a third of incidents of sabotage and data theft from UK companies are believed to have been carried out by their own employees."Major corporations are difficult to penetrate. If the criminals can get inside help, they're way down the road," said Ch Supt Deats. "That's a risk factored into most companies' thinking."Some people create bot programs and prepare attacks to sell or rent out on the internet."There is a loose online network of individuals making a lot of money from these sorts of attacks," said Ch Supt Deats.Investigators have also mounted sting operations by placing fake ads offering bots for sale to see who responds.Financial crime is not the only concern. Terrorists could use such techniques to try to paralyse an emergency telephone network or an air traffic control system, with devastating consequences, particularly if combined with a physical attack.Ch Supt Deats said large organisations were on their guard, but terrorists did not appear to have penetrated the UK infrastructure so far and the vast majority of internet crime was purely financially motivated.The current "denial of service" racket surfaced in the UK last autumn when an online betting firm, Canbet, was targeted. The NHTCU worked with the company; it transferred cash to the gang, and investigators then followed them to Riga in Latvia."But many more sums of money, in Japanese yen, US dollars, Australian dollars, were being picked up in Riga, and we realised this was a worldwide racket," said Ch Supt Deats. "We traced the money to Russia, to the Caribbean and back to Russia again, and 10 people were arrested in Latvia."A similar eastern European network is thought to be behind the latest wave of attacks, and NHTCU officers are once more working with the Russian authorities.NHTCU officers constantly work with law enforcement agencies all over the world. The crooks are targeting up to 40 firms worldwide at a time, asking for relatively small sums in the hope that companies will simply pay up quickly rather than report it."They then say they won't bother the company again for a year, but of course there's no way to ensure they won't be at it again the next week," said Ch Supt Deats.If a large financial corporation is too tough to crack, criminals may attack their clients instead, "phishing" for their bank details. Bogus bank websites are set up and fake emails sent out asking customers to part with account numbers. Accounts can then be looted.Identity fraud is another major problem. Last month, 28 people, including one British man, were arrested in an operation led by the US secret service. A website is alleged to have been used to traffick false driving licences, birth certificates, passports and 1.7m stolen credit card numbers.Ch Supt Deats said everyone who used the internet was a hi-tech crime target, and the more online business they did, the more vulnerable they could be."These criminals are always refining their techniques and honing their scams, and it's up to us to keep one step ahead."Glossary of glitchesDenial of serviceHackers link thousands of computers and activate them to bombard a company website with bogus queries, paralysing normal operations before issuing a blackmail demandBotThe rogue computer code used to operate a denial of service attackPhishingUsing spoof emails or directing people to fake websites in order to fool them into divulging personal financial details so criminals can access their accountsScriptkiddyA hacker, usually a teenage computer geek, who disrupts a system for fun rather than financial gainNet crime - the numbers12.8m homes in the UK have internet access - 52%10m UK citizens visit a retail bank or credit union website each month&#163;2.5bn was spent by UK internet shoppers over Christmas 200343,000 UK citizens were victims of identity fraud last year&#163;1.3bn was the total cost of these frauds&#163;195m was lost through hi-tech crime at just 167 British firms last year, according to a survey of 201 firms. &#163;121m of that was through financial fraud200 arrests have been made in 80 investigations by the National Hi-Tech Crime Unit since it was launched in October 2001
Grand Theft Auto: San AndreasPlaysation 2If you've got a PlayStation 2 (or have succumbed to the gorgeous PStwo) and are of legal voting age, you may already own GTA: San Andreas, a game benefiting from epoch-making levels of pre-publicity. Set in Boyz N The Hood-era California, its three cities and substantial countryside are enormously larger than previous efforts, themselves having been overwhelmingly vast. Rich, detailed, violent and riddled with innumerable    touches of humour, San Andreas gives you the impression of tooling round a living, breathing, American state circa 1992 as you play Carl "CJ" Johnson, drawn back to the 'hood he escaped following his mother's murder. From added character development to the absence of load times as you drive to the Chicano low-rider rhythm, this effortlessly exceeds past episodes.Nick GillettThe Getaway: Black MondayPlaystation 2The Getaway's major selling point was the swathe of digitised London you could drive and shoot your way through: Black Monday not only features slightly more of the capital, but also improved on-foot controls, less absurdly punitive car damage and yet more sinister voice acting. Courting movie-lovers with DVD-style menus, gripping plot and cinematic cut scenes, gamers may again feel a bit let down by long, less than engaging shooting missions and its overall glitchiness. Although this looks as though it might compete with GTA: San Andreas, the appearance is skin deep.NGDonkey KongaGamecubeIn general, peripherals designed to make games more fun (Game Glove, Airpad, skateboard controllers, etc) just turn them into frustratingly meaningless wrestling matches with some cheap piece of plastic your gran bought you. However, in the case of Donkey Konga, the solid little barrels that pass for congas do a lot to enhance the frenetic beat-making of the game, in    which you drum and clap (there's a microphone built into the drums) along to cover versions of party favourites. Though lacking the extraordinary level of polish and exhaustive detail that normally make Nintendo games stand out, this is fun and will make you look very, very silly playing the tiny plastic bongos. Nintendo, Bongos/game £40; Bongos only £25NG
Most actors are far too busy to bother with official websites, preferring their name followed by .com to lead to an endless hell of pop-up adverts for polyphonic ringtones. But here are some who have made the effort. Big Lebowski star Jeff Bridges has a brilliant hand-drawn site (jeffbridges.com) full of doodles, photos and links. Elsewhere, we can learn that Billy Bob Thornton's pet mynah bird is called Alice atbillybobthornton.net, hear what Leonardo DiCaprio thinks about global warming atleonardodicaprio.com, get nutritional advice fromsylvesterstallone.comand watch Adam Sandler (adamsandler.com) feed his dogs pasta. Fine work. Nothing, though, compares to the ornate splendour that serves as Melanie Griffith's online presence (melaniegriffith.com) - enter the Story Of Avalon Room to see the letter Melanie has written to her "inner self" or join her in some quick meditation.
So you want to buy a car? You flick through the car ads in your local paper, wander around a couple of car showrooms; perhaps you even buy a copy of Parker's motoring guide. Somehow you end up engaged in a toe-curling haggling session with a salesman in a dodgy suit who smooth-talks you into a deal that's more than you can really afford. Surely there must be a better way?The web can be your most powerful ally when buying a car. It  could save you from the ignominy of shelling out on a second-hand car that turns out to be a lemon, or a new model that depreciates faster than you can say "power steering".You can use the web to do everything from figuring out what make and model suits you, to locating a suitable seller, and finally ordering and paying for your new car.Many buyers plump for the first two stages, but refuse to commit to buying a car - particularly one with a few miles already on the clock - sight unseen.But where to start? There are a bewildering number of motoring websites to choose from.I'll go through the stages of buying a car one-by-one and explain how useful the web can be in helping this stage of the car-buying process go smoothly.The research stageFirst you need to make two vital decisions: how much do you want to spend and what kind of car are you looking for?Several sites have buyers' guides that can help you to compare one model to another within your budget: among the best areAA's car buying guideandParker's price guide. Both review new and used models and will also estimate how much your current car is worth.The other potential car buyer's essential bookmark isWhat Car? Online, with comprehensive reviews and ratings for both new and used cars and its target price search facility will allow you to check whether your budget will realistically stretch to a Lexus RX. If it's a new car you're after, the Car Pages'new car guideis also worth a look.Once you've settled on a make and model, don't ignore your chosen manufacturer's website. Most allow you to order brochures, book test drives and check both new and used models that dealers have in stock without the need to tramp around car showrooms. UK-Click has a full list of manufacturers' UK siteshere.Then head for theEuropean New Car Assessment Programmesite to find out how your dream car/old banger (delete as appropriate) performed in a variety of crash tests. Whether you live in a high crime area or not, if car security is important to you, check outThatcham's  Vehicle Security Ratings for a five-star rating of how easy it could be to steal and to steal from. Thatcham also rates new cars for whiplash,here.The search stageBy now you should have a rough idea of the kind of car you want and how much you are prepared to pay for it. Now you need to find someone willing to sell you the right car at the right price. This could be a private seller, a franchised dealer, a car supermarket, a car auction or an internet-only seller. The net allows you to widen your search far beyond the ads in the back of your local paper, which can be crucial if you have set your heart on a rare model, colour or specification, or have a limited budget.But before you commit to buying a car from a private seller or dealer located hundreds of miles away from you, remember, at some point you have to pick the thing up. This could be a hassle if the seller's in Aberdeen and you're in St Ives.Buying a new carIf you want to carry out the whole car-buying process online to purchase and beyond, there are more than a dozen UK net-only new car sales sites to choose from, all with slightly different offerings in terms of stock, site features and prices. Find yourself a site that suits your needs: theonline buying sites scorecardfrom the comprehensive and aptly-namedWhere-can-I-buy-a-car-onlinesite is very helpful at laying out their pros and cons.One site that's worth flagging up isDrive the Deal. Where-can-I-buy-a-car-online says of this site: "Make sure you at least check this site out when doing your online price comparisons as it consistently came in far below other online vendors I looked at." MeanwhileOneSwoop, which is owned by Norwich Union, is rated as Where-can-I-buy-a-car-online's "best bet" site.Reading the small print is particularly important if you are going to buy a new car, sight unseen. Check how long will it be before your car is delivered. If it has been imported to the UK, will the specification and warranty be the same as models sold in UK franchised dealers? Make sure you get this in writing so that you have a paper record should the site disappoint.If you do decide to do the buying in person rather than online, trawling sales sites will give you a "target price" to keep firmly in mind when you engage in the battle of wills that is the price negotiation process, either with a salesperson or a private seller. Use the links on the left-hand side of theCar Pagessite to locate trade sellers within driving distance of your home: many have sites listing their current inventory which could save you a pointless journey, too. The British Independent Motor Trade Association, which represents non-franchised car dealers, has asearch toolthat allows you to find Bimta-approved dealers selling your chosen model in your area.Buying a used carThere are even more places to look online if you decide to buy a used car. When it comes to name recognition, the two sites that stand out areEbay MotorsandAutoTrader.Ebay Motors' biggest plus is that many car buyers are now familiar with its online auction format. The site's head, Claire Gilmartin, says that a UK car is sold on eBay every four minutes, each one attracting an average of seven bids.However it's the "eBay buzz" that can be a buyer's biggest downfall, though: bids are binding, so think carefully before you click away and commit to buying a car of which you've only seen a blurry digital photo. Many buyers choose to search by region to ensure they're close enough to inspect the car in person first. EBay's advice tobuyersis invaluable. Many people fail to read this, and quite literally pay the price.If you're worried you'll get carried away on eBay, try AutoTrader, where you'll have to make your arrangements directly with the seller once you've shortlisted a car. One of AutoTrader's strong points is a postcode search, so every listing includes the distance in miles from your location to the seller - very handy if you want to take the sensible precaution of checking it out in person. You can also narrow the search to private individuals or dealers, or see both, although some could find the pop-up window layout for individual ads annoying.Other options include usingAutolocateor the slicker siteAllApprovedCars, to search the inventories of thousands of used car dealers.Buying the carBefore money changes hands, make sure you're up to speed on the legal aspects of buying and selling by reading the AA'sadvice, including theirprint out and keep the legal contractfor private car sales.And don't forget to check your chosen car's history for fraud, finance or other problems,  and find out whether you'll be able to afford the insurance by visiting services such asHPIorCarfax.      If things do go wrong, theOffice of Fair Tradinghas links to the organisations that can help you get things sorted out.
"Together with a busload of other geoweb neophytes, I found myself carrying a GPS-equipped tablet PC around a decommissioned army base overlooking the Golden Gate. I clicked on one of the hotspots on the photomap of our location. A note popped up -- from the late, great Jerry Garcia, who had been quoted in print about the place we were exploring because Fort Scott in San Francisco's Presidio is where Garcia served in the army in his pre-Dead and predead days," reports Howard Rheingold inThe Geoweb and Deep Place."The Geoweb, as Liebhold and others envision it today, combines geonote-like user annotations of places, GIS databases that augment map locations and some kind of standard protocols that would enable amateurs as well as professionals to connect physical spaces with cyberspace extensions."
As sold oneBay....
"America Online, which earlier this year stopped signing up new broadband customers, is telling existing broadband subscribers in nine Southern states that they must find a new broadband carrier by Jan. 17. Those customers who do not switch to a new broadband carrier by that date will have their accounts revert to AOL's traditional dialup service, said AOL spokeswoman Anne Bentley," according to anAPreport."Bentley said she expects AOL will phase out existing broadband customers in the rest of the country in a similar manner over the next year."
"According to statistics by research firm Gartner, Microsoft's Windows CE was the leading operating system for PDA deployments in the third quarter of 2004. This marks the first time that Microsoft has beat perennial PDA OS leader PalmOne in the category that Palm helped to pioneer," reportsInternet News."The PDA market isn't the only new embedded market that Microsoft has won either. According to research firm Venture Development Corporation (VDC), Microsoft was the leading vendor of embedded OS for 2003. VDC placed Microsoft ahead of Wind River, Palm and Symbian."
Horseless carriage? More like a dog cart. I'm looking at a photograph taken in 1896 of Henry Ford at the tiller of his first attempt at an automobile. The tiny Quadricycle went forwards, though not nearly as fast as a Jack Russell terrier in pursuit of a rat, and much less so than a thoroughbred riding to hounds. Like Tony Blair, who has been known to transport his family in a Ford Galaxy "people carrier", it had no reverse gear. Or brakes. It ran on bicycle wheels. To warn slugs, sloths and recalcitrant hedgehogs of its approach, it boasted an electric bell.What the Quadricycle lacked, too, was style. And any sense of beauty. The most stylish aspect of the photograph is Ford himself. Tall and Anglepoise-thin, he is immaculately dressed from his driving gloves to his dickie bow-tie. He looks at the camera, as you might expect, with a visionary confidence that his dog-trap car seems unable to promise.For Henry Ford, beauty was in the idea not of voluptuous coachwork, but of getting ordinary, farmsteading Americans cheaply, reliably and, above all, independently from A to B. His first car, not a thing of poetic beauty, promised simply to put the world on motorised wheels down dust tracks. "I am going to democratise the automobile," said Ford in 1909. "When I'm through, everybody will have one."The early carmakers of the turn of the 20th century did care for the look of their machines, but their main concern was to make the things go, and go reliably. Early cars did indeed look like horseless carriages and seemed more the stuff of oats and hay than oil and petrol. It took a while before these mechanised buggies sprouted fixed roofs, and very much longer before all their many exposed parts were pulled together in one more or less smoothly integrated design.Eventually, cars were to become so smooth they would lose much-liked identifying features such as radiator grilles and exposed headlamps - their "mouths" and "eyes" - and both owners and designers missed them. The smooth-as-a-sucked-lozenge school of car design peaked in the early 1990s, when Retro Design began to take off, two steps forward in stylistic terms, one step back. A new generation of cars sprouted old-fashioned and often gratuitously antique features: gap-mouthed, chrome-wrapped radiator grilles, engine-turned aluminium dashboards and dials that looked as if they had been borrowed from a 1920s clockmaker. So much so that a car such as the Rover 75 resembled a carriage clock on wheels.It has been difficult for many designers and manufacturers to give up the idea of the horseless carriage. We still talk of "horsepower", produced under the charmingly named "bonnets", and more disturbingly named "hoods", of our cars. The symbol of Ferrari, among the fastest and, occasionally, the most beautiful of cars, is a prancing horse. We have named cars Mustangs, Colts and Hunters. We speak of coachwork and of carrozzeria as if the makers of Rolls-Royce or Maserati bodies were engaged with horse and tackle rather than gears and camshafts. Cars "get into their stride", as horses do when given rein. We park cars in garages that look like stables. But, then, I suppose, humans have been working with and grooming horses for many thousands of years.The real revolution in car design came with streamlining and the dramatic - if flawed, and not altogether popular - Chrysler Airflow of 1934. From then on, more and more American automobiles were clothed in seamless steel and aluminium frocks. Couture had come to the car: it was no longer a horseless carriage, although it adopted, subliminally, the beautiful curves of thoroughbred horses. When the car was a fickle and rather unreliable beast, it had been best to leave most of its whirring parts largely exposed for easy fettling. Now motorists could be assured of a reliable ride, it made aesthetic and marketing sense to cover the car's workings completely.Even so, some early designs - such as the most refined Rolls-Royce Silver Ghosts and Prince Henry Vauxhalls - were decidedly elegant, while others such as the gloriously functional 1911 Mercer Raceabout, a 70mph American road-racer, exhibited what you might call a brute beauty. That same brute beauty informed the lines of such magnificent cars as those built by Walter Owen Bentley between 1919 and the takeover of his firm by Rolls-Royce 12 years later. Ettore Bugatti, whose exquisite Type 35 racers took on and often lost to Bentley's green giants at Le Mans and other legendary races of the 1920s, referred to the cars from Willesden as "the world's fastest lorries". Bentley had trained as a locomotive apprentice with the Great Northern Railway at Doncaster, and although he went on to design fine aero-engines during the first world war, his wonderful cars, many still on the road today, retained more than a whiff of GNR Ivatt Atlantics: fast, handsome things, but not beautiful in the way most of us understand this battered and bruised word.When, however, we use the word "beautiful" in relation to the style and design of cars, we are usually thinking of sensual or streamlined beauty, rather than the brute beauty of vintage Bentleys or Mercer Raceabouts. This very sensuality took a long time to get anywhere near right. Early attempts at streamlining were often clumsy. The Chrysler Airflow itself, developed by Carl Breer with advice from Orville Wright, might have been a stab at shaping the automotive equivalent of William Van Alen's Art Deco Chrysler Building on East 42nd Street in Manhattan. But the car was a lumpen thing in comparison, and not a patch in the beauty stakes on, for example, such essentially conventional cars as the massive Mercedes-Benz roadsters that emerged from Munich during the Nazi era.Few cars have been so beautiful as the light blue 1937 Mercedes-Benz 540K Special Roadster driven and owned by Reichsmarschal Hermann Goering. This road-going Valkyrie featured an implausibly long bonnet, pert rump, sweeping wings that merged into its running boards, chromed exhaust pipes, tiny windscreen and just the two, well-cushioned leather seats. Designed to run at 100mph along the new autobahnen designed and built by Fritz Todt for Adolf Hitler, this was a car that might run 1,000 miles before tiring its driver. Just 26 of these three-ton Wagnerian supercars were built, with bodies by Mercedes-Benz's own karosserie in Sindelfingern. They cost 28,000 Reichsmarks, or 28 times the price of a brand new Ferdinand Porsche-designed Volkswagen, and 40% more than a V16 Cadillac. The peerless lines of the 540K Special Roadster demonstrated that the horseless carriage could be a thing of sensual beauty after all.The best of the racing Bugattis shared this trait, too: the Type 59 Grand Prix model of 1933, with its piano-wire wheels and perfectly judged proportions, remains a joy forever.Something a little odd, to European eyes, happened to streamlined design in the US. Even while Douglas was mass-producing its revolutionary all-streamlined DC3 airliner, a handsome and hugely influential machine, and Henry Dreyfuss was working on the design of the locomotives and coaches of the New York Central Railroad's superb Twentieth Century Limited express, American cars began to get bigger, bulkier and more extravagant.By the 1950s, the divide between American and European notions of what constituted a beautiful car had become as wide and deep as the Grand Canyon. Designers such as General Motor's Harley Earl, Chrysler's Virgil Exner and Cadillac's Ed Glowacke did their utmost to top one another in sheer, vulgar exuberance: fins adopted from jet fighters, lashings of chrome, bodywork that swept up and down like drunken ballet dancers ... This was sensational stuff, peaking, perhaps in the design of the 1959 Cadillac range and in the 1959 Chevrolet Impala with its wildest of fan tails.Curiously, this happened while mid-century modern architecture in the States became ever sleeker, smoother, more restrained and immaculate in its detailing. It is instructive to look at the General Motors Technical Center at Warren, Michigan (1946-52), designed by Eero Saarinen: cool, calm, sheer, collected and ultra-modern, it is the antithesis of Harly Earl's Streamline Baroque automobiles of the 1950s. But, then auotmobiles were popular consumer goods; early Art Deco streamlining had been, in part, a sparkling response to the glumness and even despair of the Great Depression. By the 1950s, over-the-top, chrome-plated streamlining mirrored the values and desires of the great postwar consumer boom. It was a case of if you've got it - and the US had it in plenty - flaunt it.European designers, although influenced by US styling, did their best work in a far more restrained manner, and in a way in we think of, at best, as more truly beautiful. Such elegant restraint was shown in the design of Grand Prix racers such as the perennially lovely, and hugely successful, cigar-shaped Maserati 250F of 1954- 57, as well as in such influential designs as the 1952 Lancia Aurelia B20GT. This particular 1950s fastback grand tourer continues to influence new cars today: the new Bentley Continental borrows heavily from the Lancia. The B20GT Lancia was not only a beautiful car, but a real joy to drive; in fact it drove, and drives, beautifully.And here is another aspect of beauty in cars. Some might be good looking, even stunning, yet clumsy, awkward machines to drive. I remember driving a weird and wonderful, some would say beautiful, Lamborghini Countach, styled by Marcello Gandini, along narrow lanes in mid-Wales some years ago. When a tractor came the other way, I was forced to reverse by opening one of the knife-like doors and sitting perched on the sill, head turned backwards, while trying to keep my feet on the pedals and hand on the stubby wheel. This was the least beautiful drive of all. In summer, evening traffic along the snarling A40 out of London, the folded-paper-style Italian supercar had been sauna hot. Gear changes demanded Herculean labour. There was no view out of the back. Other drivers and their passengers pointed, some in delight, but mostly in derision. When I got out for a breather at Burford, my shirt was soaked in perspiration. A Morris Minor would have offered a better all round drive. The Lamborghini was a dramatic and demanding thing, an automotive diva, the stuff of posters on teenage boys' bedroom walls; it sounded wonderfully glorious, but this is not, after experiencing it, a car I could call a beauty.A truly beautiful car is one that is balanced, one that enjoys a harmonious play between its shape, detailing and mechanical underpinning, one that feels as good at the wheel, or to ride in, as it does to look at in magazines or on the road. There was, I think, a brief period in the history of car design, when it was possible to create machines of real, all round beauty, before too many regulations, mostly to do with safety, came into play and shaped the bloated, sucked-lozenge cars of this decade. This was somewhere between the early 1950s and early 1970s.It would be hard to find cars more endearingly and enduringly beautiful than Sergio Scaglietti's Ferrari GTO of 1963, or the Touring bodied Aston-Martin DB4GT of 1961, or, of course, that great catwalk beauty, the E-Type Jaguar Series 1 coupe, which made its debut in 1961 and was styled by that consummate aerodynamicist, Malcolm Sayer. I have driven many thousands of miles in E-Types and can confirm, that once sorted, they are a joy to drive as well as pleasure to look at. Later E-Types put on weight and lost their youthful looks. Regulation, regulation and regulation undermined their defining grace and pace. Contemporary Jaguars, chunky, flashy machines aimed primarily at the US market, some of them little more than Fords by another name, cannot be called beautiful, although they are often a delight to drive and ride in. In trying to respond to the most conservative American design values they have lost much of the very dashing English glamour that made them so attractive to Americans in the first place.Car design can transcend national boundaries. It would be hard to find detractors anywhere in the world of the design of Malcolm Sayer's longnosed D-Type Jaguars of 1955-7 or of the 1955 Uhlenhaut Mercedes-Benz 300SLR coupe, two racing cars of sublime, yet pugnacious beauty. Most contenders for the truly beautiful car stakes, even from this period, are, though, flawed in one way or another. Many look good, but only from certain angles: the rare 1970 Monteverdi Hai 450SS styled by Trevor Fiore is a provocatively alluring machine viewed in profile; the De Tomaso Mangusta, designed by Giorgetto Giugiaro, is faultless seen, three-quarter view, from the back. The Fiat Dino Coupe of 1966, from the studio of Giugiario's mentor Nuccio Bertone, is very nearly beautiful, as are Scaglietti-shaped Ferrari 250GT California Spyders dating from 1958 and the 1966 the Ferrari 275GTB Berlinetta from the Pininfarina studio, which had been established in 1930.There are extremely handsome cars from this period, whether oceanliner-vast as with the Rolls-Royce Silver Cloud series (1955-65) styled in-house at Crewe by John Blatchley, or lithe, light and pretty like Colin Chapman's 1958 Lotus Elite, or the showstealing Lamborghini Miura, by Bertone, which set car-lovers' hearts racing when first shown in 1965. This mid-engined V12 exotic is a car that one can truly call "sexy" without sounding affected or silly. Its dark-angel twin was perhaps the stirring, Le Mans-conquering Ford GT40 launched the same year. God knows what Henry Ford would have made of such an angrily beautiful, single-purpose 200mph machine built in his name, but the GT40 is up there with Bentley and Bugatti in the pantheon of racing cars, and of brute mechanical beauties.What was it that made cars of this era so stylish and even beautiful? The early E-Type is by common consent a stunning work of "rolling sculpture", and you do not need to own one, drive one or even be interested in cars to appreciate its stunning lines.Is it something to do with the power of association? We see these, and other chic cars such as the Aston Martin DB5 in cult films such as Goldfinger; they work together for us in a make-believe world of sharp suits, witty one-liners, clinking cocktails, glamorous girls, exotic locations and thrilling storylines, worlds in which speed limits, punitive traffic wardens, Gatso cameras, speed bumps, congestion charges and largely hypocritical media attacks on the car are not just non-existent, but impossible to imagine.So, the E-Type, aside from being inherently beautiful, is glamorous by association. It is also, and this might surprise those who know the car only for its long and priapic nose, a rather small and lithe car, certainly by today's bloated standards. This is not so much because people were smaller in 1961 - although anyone much over 5ft 8in has to stoop to pilot a Series 1 E-Type - but because cars like this and contemporary Aston Martins and Ferraris were blissfully free of today's air-conditioning units, electric windows, heated seats, fat tyres and chubby steering wheels. They were slimmer and more like racehorses than today's boxer-like sports cars.Those 60s cars benefit from the sheer tactile quality of gearshifts that click rather than slur into place, from direct steering, immediate brakes, positive toggle switches rather than rubbery buttons, clear-faced dials and a general sense of fitness for glamorous purposes. And, there is the sense, a true one, that these cars are the work of artist-engineers rather than the end product of market research, brand-consciousness raising sessions and more meetings than even the most hardened civil servant could cope with. There is a kind of innocence in the design of cars such as the E-Type.And curves. It is not so long ago that curators of design museums, who despised Jaguars, billed and cooed whenever they saw a new, usually German, car that was an earnest and infinitely dull set of straight lines and near 90-degree angles; such cars might have been fashionable at one time, but many are forgotten now, their beauty unable to outrun time, no matter how powerful their well-engineered engines. Curves are always beautiful.The car acclaimed the "world's most beautiful" today is the new Lamborghini Gallardo. Shaped by Luc Donckerwolke, it has some curves, some straight lines and uses many components from the jelly-mould Audi TT sports car. It is very, very wide and, although extremely powerful and a blast to drive where and when you can find the space, feels nothing like as special as a Lamborghini Miura. The Gallardo sums up what has happened to car design over the past quarter of a century and why it is getting harder to shape truly special, beautiful cars. The great marques are owned by international companies with boards of directors aiming to keep the shareholders sucking at their oily dugs happy, the vehicles are swaddled in design and safety regulations, the designers are disciplined by cost-accountants. The result is that new cars have a hard time living up to the reputations and looks of the tireless greats.Of course, you'll have your own list of beauties and beasts, for in the end, automotive beauty is truly in the eye of the owner. There are, although I believe them to be extremely rare, motorists who find at least some beauty in the lines of, among others, the Datsun Cherry, Morris Marina, AMC Pacer and Ford Cortina 2000E Mk III. Equally, there are those of us who would prefer to be at the tiller of Henry Ford's Quadricycle, or to be really honest, in the saddle of a horse than at the wheel of such bestial beauties.&#183;Jonathan Glancey is the Guardian's architecture criticMe and my car: Ian Broudie"At the moment I'm driving a Mercedes CLK convertible, which suits me fine. I got it because I couldn't think of another car I felt like driving. It's fast, it feels safe when you're driving around town and it has a really good sound system, which is important. Oh and it's got four seats rather than the two you usually get in a convertible, but the windows and the roof don't seal properly when you put the top up. I'm not sure what I'd go for next. London's crap for driving, isn't it?"&#183;Ian Broudie is a musicianMe and my car: Stephen Bayley"My car is a silver Renault Vel Satis. It looks strange which is one of the reasons I chose it. Most people find it challengingly ugly. It's large, luxurious and incredibly powerful. It's also fantastically comfortable. Its designer, Patrick Le Quément, tried to do something rather different. He tried to get away from all the predictable metaphors of power, sex and speed that dominate the luxury car sector."&#183;Stephen Bayley is a design consultantMe and my car: Kelly Hoppen"I just love driving. I have a satellite navigation system in the car which helps. I bought my black Porsche Carrera 4 about two years ago. I wanted something fun and sporty. Previously, I always had Range Rovers so I wanted a change. I love the speed and sexiness of it but I hate that friends have to squeeze in the back. For my next car I'd love an Aston Martin."&#183;Kelly Hoppen is an interior designer
It's hard to say what first captures your attention when you open the door of this super-sized loft apartment in central London. Is it the crazily laid stone paving in the entrance hall or the stunning rosewood veneer that lines theinternal walls? The indoor cactus garden or the vast aquarium that allows you to see right into the bathroom while you're chopping away at the kitchen counter? The brilliant orange motorbike in the living space? Or quite simply that the owner is lighting the gas "real log fire"? With the remote control?The property - think James Bond meets the Flintstones - belongs to a commercials director with a sense of humour that's as great as his tolerance of kitsch. He goes by the name of Palmer Kristofferson and is the sort of person who likes the fur bedcovers to be fake and the furniture to be exuberant: the Verner Panton chairs around the dining table are bright orange. Of course they are. Why not have a bit of fun? And, it has to be said, after the invariable arrangement of limestone, wenge, seagrass, slick Roman blinds and Eames recliners that make up the average high-spend interior these days, it's a relief to sit on a 1950s sofa clad in turquoise Dralon once in a while. Though perhaps one would draw the line at the 6ft rubber cactus that towers next to the television.It's not all played for laughs, however. The provision of music and entertainment in this fun-filled interior has been executed with some rigour. Throughout the apartment are seven different pairs of speakers, each chosen to function perfectly in its designated space. They include two B+W speakers set flush into the kitchen ceiling; funky little glossy white "mini pods" by Blueroom, standing next to the retro repro TV in its big, shiny white casing; and two more polished stainless-steel models by Oheocha in the living area. The last are pneumatically curvaceous, not only for aesthetic reasons but for aural pleasure - the spherical shape apparently produces a bigger, rounder sound. And then there is the home cinema to consider. And the motorised jade velvet curtains in the bedroom. (I know: I used to call them "electric", too.)The fact that the flat isn't an ugly tangle of wiring and hardware is due to the intervention of the Cornflake Shop, purveyor of high-fidelity toys. Cornflake doesn't just sell the goods, it sells consultancy, installation, total integration. It sends you consultants who know the history of the Rega turntable and the value of an Arcam DVD player. "I think the overall spend with us was about &#163;40,000 for this place," says Cornflake's Chris Adair, who has returned to update the system. The waterproof control panel set in the bathroom (where the separate steam room has its own speakers set into its fibre-optically twinkly ceiling) is out of date, and the radios built into the bed's surround need connecting up to the client's iPod. Adair will introduce a new control system, so refined that Kristofferson won't have to point the remote at the fire any more. Simply pressing the word "Light" wherever he might be in the apartment will result in flickering flames in the hearth.Adair loves this place. Partly, one imagines, because the client is more lively than some (the higher spenders being "bankers and people who own shipping lines".), but particularly for its home cinema, a dedicated darkened room in the centre of the apartment. There's a red shag carpet and a big bed. But also more than 1,000 DVDs and a proper CRT (cathode ray tube) projector, about to be upgraded from analogue to digital. The depth of the projected image is spectacular, the surround-sound is a joy."Everyone wants a home cinema these days," says Adair, "but they usually want it integrated into their sitting room. It works so much better in a separate room, however small. That way, you can totally involve yourself in what you're watching." Spending anything from &#163;7,000 to &#163;12,000 on hardware can provide a decent system. A huge amount, perhaps, but no more or less than people spend on kitchens and cars. Having found myself at 10.30 in the morning reclining on a faux fur bed completely immersed in Lord Of The Rings (a film that seemed unwatchably dull at the cinema), I almost find myself agreeing that the new kitchen can wait&#183;TheCornflake Shop, 020-7323 4554.
A website designed to let drinkers keep tabs on their health left its backers with a morning-after feeling yesterday: no sooner was it up than it had stumbled and fallen down, apparently after being targeted by hackers.The drinks industry-funded Portman Group, which is behind the initiative, said of the hiccup: "At first we thought it was simply technical difficulties, but it seems to have been more than that."The Drink Aware site, which was expected to be back online today, lets users enter information about what they have drunk, using real brands and serving sizes. It then tells them how many units of alcohol they have consumed, and how close they are to recommended limits.The initiative comes as Britain's largest brewer, Scottish &amp; Newcastle, announced that it was to put health warnings on its products.The warnings - "responsible drinkers don't exceed 4 daily units (men) and 3 units (women)" - will start appearing on bottles of Newcastle Brown Ale in the next few days, followed by other brands.Drink Aware's creators say it is designed to take a "friendly and helpful rather than lecturing or scolding" tone, and won't give users a hard time if they have overindulged. It has sections on the effects of alcohol, hints on sensible drinking, and information for people in different walks of life, plus special sections for drivers, young people, pregnant women, parents and older people.Users can input how many drinks, which brands and what size servings - such as pints, halves, singles or doubles - they consumed the previous night. The tally can then be checked against the government's guidelines.For example, a woman putting in three large glasses of chardonnay is given a total of 9.9 units, as against the maximum daily female allowance of two to three. A man selecting four pints of lager and two 35ml whisky singles is told he consumed 14.8 units, compared with the government's maximum daily male recommended intake of three to four units.
Busy, busy, busy ... You're always on the move, so you like your gadgets compact. But you've got your demands, too: good looks are very important, in an effortless kind of way. And so is high performance. These are pocket-size wonders that punch well above their weight.Digital music player&#163;267, by Sony, from Unbeatable, 01293 543555 (unbeatable.co.uk).Better than the iPod? Well, Sony's NW-HD1 music player is smaller, lighter and has a much better battery life than its Apple rival. You pay a few pounds more for it, though. Its 20 gigabyte hard disk means you can store up to 13,000 tracks - the equivalent Apple has about 10,000.Headset&#163;59.99, by Jabra, from Carphone Warehouse, 0808 100 9250 (carphonewarehouse.com).OK, so you might look like you just stepped off the Starship Enterprise with this BT250v wrapped around your ear, but you'll be able to chat away without getting tangled up in wires.LaptopAround &#163;980, from Icube, 00 1 866 694 2823 (icube.us).A Lilliputian PC (W: 22.5cm, D: 15.8cm, H: 3.1cm), the Sharp Mebius Muramasa CV50 is ideal for jet-setting types as, despite its tiny size, it runs Windows XP and all the usual features such as Word and Internet Explorer. It also includes a wireless connection for hooking up to the net in hot spots, and a slot for transferring pictures from a digital camera's memory card. The downside? You'll have to order it from America.Ergonomic penFrom &#163;3, from Yoropen, 020-7431 7483 (yoropen.co.uk).Old tech; modern values. Yoropen's strange looking ballpoints are designed to take some of the strain out of writing. The rubber grip ensures you hold the pen correctly, making it comfy for both right- and left-handers.Mobile phoneFrom &#163;79.99, by Motorola, from Carphone Warehouse, as before.Super-slim and made using tough, aircraft-grade aluminium and magnesium, Motorola's V3 RAZR is for technology lovers and design enthusiasts alike. And it's not just a phone for the fashion-conscious: crammed in are the very latest features, including bluetooth (to connect to wireless headsets) and a digital camera.Digital camera&#163;319, by Canon, from Jessops, 0800 652 6400 (jessops.com).Well, everyone's got to relax some time, and if you're taking snaps you won't get much better than the Ixus i5 digital camera. Although it has been designed to just point and shoot, the five-megapixel resolution means you'll be able to take extremely high-quality shots for printing out or emailing.
These days, gadgets don't just come in steely shine or ever-so-serious black. More manufacturers have woken up to the fact that colour goes a long way with the punter, too.Personal navigation system&#163;189.99, by Magellan, 00800 6243 5526 for stockists (thalesnavigation.com).Why stick a satellite navigation system in your car when you can get a portable device to take with you everywhere? Using GPS (global positioning system) technology, the Magellan eXplorist displays maps that tell you exactly where you are, and will work out a route for anything from a car journey to a ramble in the woods.Digital camera&#163;249, by Olympus, from John Lewis, 0845 604 9049 (johnlewis.com).The Mju-mini digital camera comes in a choice of six bright colours. With its gorgeous curves, it's definitely one for showing off, while its four-megapixel resolution and shower-resistant casing make for pretty impressive specs, too.Weather station&#163;79.99, from Oregon Scientific, 0845 601 3964 (oregonscientific.co.uk).A 21st-century way to indulge our obsession with the weather - it's the humble barometer given an electronic makeover. Nattily decked out in Ferrari's trademark red with the prancing pony logo, the Monza Weather Station measures air pressure to predict the weather just like the people at the Met Office.Memory stickby Iomega, from &#163;24, from PC World, 0870 242 0444 (pcworld.co.uk).If you're still storing your documents on a floppy disk, it's time you discovered the joys of USB memory sticks. Plug this Iomega Micro Mini into your computer (Mac or PC) and you can back up all your most important files.Wireless mouse&#163;30, by Microsoft, from MicroAnvika, 020-7467 6050 (microanvika.com).Get rid of some of that electric spaghetti around your PC. Comes in a variety of colours, including 'mood ring' (swirly blue) and 'groovy' (swirly red).Sky+ Box&#163;199, from Sky, 08705 800 874 (sky.com).This brilliant digital satellite TV box/video recorder uses a hard disk instead of old VHS cassettes. It also allows you to pause and rewind live television and store up to 20 hours of programmes. And it's just had a makeover. British designer Matthew Williamson created this dragonfly-pattern version as part of a limited-edition 'designer collection'. Remember, though, you'll need to subscribe to Sky before you can watch any television.
Technology: isn't it just fabulous? Play downloaded music on the hi-fi, surf the internet while waiting for Corrie to begin or flick through snaps on your TV. All this is possible thanks to new wireless technology: no cables, hardly any plugs and black boxes cluttering up the room; no lugging videos and CDs from room to room. It's the way we'll all be living soon, but why not get started now? Here's how you begin.Buy a computerLike it or not, the future of home entertainment is going to be based around a computer: the basic idea in a hi-tech home is getting the computer to talk to the TV and hi-fi. The spec doesn't matter hugely as long as it is a recent model capable of runningWindows XP. You can also choose aMac, but while you arguably get a more elegant, more stable computer, you end up with less choice in software and accessories.Get broadbandThe wireless home needs a fast internet connection. Most non-rural Britons can now access broadband. Go for speeds of at least 512mbps, which should cost you &#163;18-&#163;30 a month. Cable providersTelewestandNTLboth have attractive deals.Check the softwareYou need to get music from your CDs on to your computer hard drive, so need software to convert them to the MP3 format in order to be compatible with wireless home and portable devices such as the iPod. Windows PCs will already have Windows Media Audio (WMA) software, while Macs have iTunes. Both work well. Windows Media is also good for converting video; Macs have QuickTime for the same job.Start rippingTo convert CDs, place them in the CD drive, click on the WMA/iTunes icon, then follow the 'ripping' instructions. Best to convert files to MP3, so you may need to adjust the settings.Go wirelessYou then need to create a system that lets you hear the music and watch the video and images stored in the computer on your TV and hi-fi. The best way to do this is to add wireless accessories to your computer. For Mac owners, you will need anAirPortsystem; PC owners have a great deal more choice. You will also need a wireless router to add to the broadband modem (the part of the system that connects to the broadband internet). Your broadband provider may also offer a wireless system as part of its package. Setting up a system is not as scary as it sounds: it should take around half an hour if you follow the instructions to the letter.Get wireless devicesIf you have a laptop as well as your main PC, you can use this wirelessly to stream music from your PC to your hi-fi (simply plug it into the latter). Alternatively, there are lots of cheap and easy-to-use devices that will deliver music from both your PC and the web to the hi-fi, and PC video and image files to your TV. Try Philips' excellentStreamiumrange, which includes hi-fis and surround-sound systems. Finally, if you just want to hear the music on your PC's hard drive elsewhere in the home, the &#163;100BT Voyageris a portable hi-fi that connects to internet radio stations and your digital music. Another product, which sits under a TV and wirelessly streams audio, image and video files from a PC, is the &#163;200 Trans Gear DVX-500. It is trickier to set up and use than Philips products, but does include a DVD player.
iPod schmiPod! These hand-held media players don't just play MP3s; they have LCD screens, too, so you can also view photographs and watch TV programmes you have recorded on to them.Goodmans Personal Media Centre&#163;200, fromGoodmans, 0870 873 0080.Pros:Very pocketable device that's smaller and cheaper than its rivals. Easy to use.Cons:Limited storage: carries only about two hours' worth of video.DM Tech AV-10&#163;300, fromBoys Stuff, 0870 745 2000.Pros:Funky design, simple to use, excellent 3.8in screen.Cons:Limited storage, unless you shell out more for a pricey, large-capacity storage card.Archos AV400&#163;400, fromArchos, 01264 366022.Pros:Big screen yet light and pocketable; will let you record DVDs as well as TV on to its hard drive. Ideal if you want a go-anywhere, quality video player.Cons:Interface is not as user-friendly as rivals.Vivitar Portable Entertainment Centre&#163;400, fromFirebox, 0870 241 4289.Pros:Loads of features, comes with a snap-on, 3 megapixel digital camera.Cons:Built-in speaker is not that great.Zen Media Player&#163;380, fromCreative, 00 353 14 33 32 00.Pros:Superb screen, very simple-to-use interface.Cons:Only really designed to work with the recently launched Microsoft Media Center PCs.NHJ MPM-201&#163;300, fromPeripheral Corner, 01252 792862.Pros:More storage than rivals; attached to the mains, it can moonlight as a TV.Cons:Average-quality screen; bulky.
Blown awayPower Breathe Fitness&#163;49.95, fromboysstuff.co.uk(0870 745 2000).I first saw this being used by my friend and fellow athlete Jamie Baulch. He brought one to the training track and at first glance, watching him puff away into it, I couldn't help but laugh. But when he explained the reasoning behind it, I thought it made a lot of sense. As sprinters, we exercise in the gym to strengthen our muscles to supplement the running sessions, but we give little, if any, thought to training our lungs. The respiratory muscles are like any other muscle and need building up. This little device, as the blurb says, uses "the basic principles of resistance training to give your lungs a workout". To begin with, you stick it in your mouth and take 30 deep breaths each morning and night, adjusting this regime over time to suit your needs. I will find out whether my lungs have developed in any way when I return to training on the sand dunes in Wales. If they burn less than they did during a similar session last year, it will be thumbs up for the lung developer. Jamie is convinced that it does work, however, so I assume he will be ahead of me on the dunesWhere am I?Garmin Forerunner 201&#163;129, fromglobalpositioningsystems.co.uk.I love this handy device, because not only does it mean I will never get lost - which, for someone who is likely not to have a map handy when he needs one, is a big advantage - but it is also very useful as a training tool. Although it does involve reading a lot of instructions (not really my thing), the basics are that you turn on the machine and hit a button to tell it where your starting point is, before setting off on your run/walk/training session. Hit another button any time during your session, and it will highlight your location and tell you how far you have travelled and at what speed. En route, you should register various marker points, so when the time comes to return home, the navigator function directs you back the same way. It is easy to wear on your arm while training, and although I have always been good at pace judgment during a run, some of the athletes I train rely on me to blow a whistle when they hit a mark or have to up their pace. With this machine, the coach doesn't have to stand on the sidelines with the whistle, as the Forerunner has a pace whistle built in (I'd better watch my back or it could do me out of a job). Other functions include lap timer, calorie counter and state-of-the-art stopwatch. Go buy.Bench marksReebok Deck&#163;99.99, fromshopescape.com(0800 458 5558).I love the fact that this fitness system is portable and that I can not only use it at home, but also throw it into the back of my car if I'm going away. When I first saw it, Imistakenly thought it was just a step, but it is much more than that: it is, as Reebok points out, a "reconfigurable exercise platform". For all you step fans out there, don't worry - it can be used in the traditional way. But for someone like me who wants to do some light weight and resistance work, this is perfect. It can be used as an incline/ decline bench and has points down the side to attach to resistance bands. It also has storage in the seat. I found it particularly good for helping me to stretch before working out.Jump to itCalorie Jump electronic skipping rope&#163;14.95, fromParamount Zone, 0870 011 3206.This has a lot going for it for both the novice skipper and the more regular user. It is easy to hold, with its flexible handles and good grips, and (most important of all with a skipping rope) it has a well-balanced rope that is not too light and doesn't fray. Another neat feature is that it can easily be adjusted to suit the height of the user. One thing I like above all is the counter that tracks the number of jumps per workout and calculates the calories burned. If you are just starting to exercise to get fit or to lose weight, it is a great way to keep motivated.Pet soundsNike Philips MP3Runaround &#163;250, 0870 900 9070 for stockists (philips.co.uk).Gone are the days of running while holding a discus-sized Walkman that distorted the music at every stride. The 21st-century answer to this problem is the MP3 player - and this one is rather special. First, it has the best kind of instructions for someone like me - as I've already said, I hate wading through those huge manuals. These instructions come in the form of a CD-Rom that takes you through every step. The quality of playback is excellent, too, and the MP3Run has the bonus of a pedometer, which will give you an accurate reading of the distance you have covered via the headphones or on a screen. If you take this kind of information seriously, you can download it to a PC to measure and target performance.Telling scalesTanita InnerScan body monitor,BR&gt;&#163;129.99, 0800 731 6994 for stockists (tanita.co.uk).This is impressive looking (like a posh set of scales) and will enhance any bathroom or gym. But wait for it ... with its daunting book of instructions, I found it fiddly and am not sure I got the best out of it. One of my training partners had a lot of success with it, though, and found the information it gave on his weight, body fat and body water really useful (basically, you stand on it like an ordinary set of scales and it gives you the various readings). It is great for someone who can understand this information and use it in their training/health regime. When I was training competitively, I didn't bother measuring my body fat and could tell what kind of condition I was in from looking at myself and knowing what times I was running. Yet I do understand that a lot of people trying to get in shape are interested in knowing that it is fat they are losing and not just water or muscle. For some reason, when I stepped on the scales, I didn't ever get a readout beyond my weight, so either I don't have any body fat (I wish!) or that large instruction manual had beaten me
1. Go solarCharge iPods and mobiles from the sun with the Better Energy Systems Solio (&#163;49.99, solio.com). This portable pocket solar panel will save more energy in its lifetime than was used to make it. And carbon emissions from its manufacture are offset by planting forests. Green power for home electronics is easy, too - simply switch energy supplier. Friends Of The Earth rates green suppliers on its website (foe.co.uk).2. If it's broke, fix itJust as we don't darn socks any more, there is a tendency to bin broken technology. "With computers, a repair always makes more environmental sense," says Karsten Schischke of the Berlin Centre Of Advanced Packaging. Gadgets can be repaired, too.Proporta.comrepairs Palm Pilots or pocket PCs for a fixed fee. Or if you upgrade, they'll buy your broken one.3. Watch wattsAbout 85% of new TV sets have labels revealing their annual energy consumption. Modern flat TVs use more energy than old-fashioned tubes, but there are clever solutions. The acclaimed Philips 30PF9975 LCD TV senses how much light is in the room and adjusts brightness accordingly. As a result, it uses a third less energy than its main competitors.4. Hit eBayIf an old gadget works, don't bin it. Many gadgets contain toxic chemicals that pollute landfill, and their precious metals will go to waste. Recycling schemes aren't always what they seem, either - according to Friends Of The Earth, electronic waste is increasingly exported to developing countries for sham recycling operations. The solution? Try selling unwanted gear oneBay.co.ukwhere, for example, a mobile phone is bought every minute.5. Choose unleadedFirst it was petrol, now it's time to remove lead from electronics because, if poorly disposed of, it can pollute groundwater. Look out for "lead-free solder" labels. Fujitsu-Siemens has reduced lead in its Scenic E "green" PC, and cut power consumption, too. Production in Germany rather than Asia means less transport, and packaging is recycled.6. Buy reconditionedIf you don't need the latest, most powerful piece of technology, then return to eBay as a buyer and pick up a bargain or visit second-hand specialists.BargainPC.co.uksells reconditioned computers from &#163;99, and laptops from &#163;199. AndCeX.co.uksells second-hand digital cameras, MP3 players and more.7. Find the 'off' buttonModern TVs don't waste much energy in stand-by mode. A bigger problem is people forgetting to turn off the boxes connected to the telly. According to Bob Harrison of energy research body Market Transformation Programme, if we all put our DVD player, VCR and surround-sound amplifier into stand-by mode, we'd save five terrawatt hours of wasted energy a year - or about 0.5m tonnes of unnecessary carbon put into the atmosphere.8. Upgrade your innardsTechnology addicts can't resist buying new gadgets to get the latest features. But upgrading is more earth-friendly. Buy a DVD player from high-end Brit company Arcam, for example, and it will never be superseded. Rather than replacing the whole product when new technology comes along, they'll replace the innards. You only pay the difference, so you save money and help the environment. Hoojum offers similar upgrades for its stylish PCs. Sadly, mass-market producers such as Philips and Sony have not yet cottoned on to the environmental - or indeed PR - value of this.9. Stop clock-watchingMany products sport unnecessary clocks that waste energy. More energy than you'd expect. "If you use your microwave for only a couple of minutes a day, you'll actually use more electricity over the course of a year powering the clock than you do cooking," says Jane Lee of the Market Transformation Programme. Just switch it off when you're not cooking.10. Grow your own WalkmanSony has already made Walkman cases in Japan using vegetable-based plastic, made from corn and other vegetable starches. This new plastic is biodegradable, doesn't use oil and reduces emissions because the vegetables absorb carbon dioxide through photosynthesis as they grow. Now, the Sony DVP-NS955, a DVD player with a vegetable-based plastic case, has just launched in the UK: you'll find it in most mainstream electronic retailers.
There are curves, organic shapes and some timeless retro detail, but don't be fooled by the old-skool looks: what's inside these beautiful devices is up-to-the minute.Mobile phoneFrom &#163;100-&#163;300, dependent on contract, from Nokia, 0845 045 5555 (nokia.co.uk).With its built-in camera, FM radio and web browser, Nokia's 7260 is one of the most hi-tech mobiles on sale. And just look at that classic art deco detail: if the waspish writer Dorothy Parker had carried a mobile phone as she held court at the Algonquin, it would look like this.iPod speakers&#163;400, from Eclipse, 020-7328 4499 (eclipse-td.com).There are now loads of iPod-friendly speakers on sale, but few sound as good as the 307s, from Japanese company Eclipse. What's pretty unique about this set is that they come with an amplifier, too, so all you need do is hook them up to your MP3 player or laptop for an instant hi-fi. And those looks ...Coffee machineFrom &#163;119, by Krups, from John Lewis, 0845 604 9049 (johnlewis.com).The epitome of retro-contemporary, the Nespresso Essenza coffee machine would look as at home in a 1950s Soho bar as it would in Starbucks.Digital camera&#163;270, from Sanyo, 01923 246363 (sanyo.co.uk).The Xacti VPC-J4EX has a touch of 1970s Riviera about it - the sort of thing beautiful folk such as Brigitte Bardot and Jean-Paul Belmondo would have carried, if only it had existed then. But this camera is not just about good looks: behind that bronze-effect livery, you have a slim, light model that takes good-quality 4.2-megapixel snaps and basic video images.Portable computer monitor&#163;500, from BenQ, 01442 301000 (benq.co.uk).It might look like a handbag that Twiggy would have swung around in Carnaby Street, but in fact it's a carry-anywhere LCD monitor for a PC. It's name is not exactly catchy - BenQ FP 785 LCD - and I'm not entirely sure why you'd want a LCD monitor to go, but it looks good and is light enough to be carried by the weediest of supermodels.MP3 player&#163;129, from Advanced MP3 Players, 0131-273 4388 (advancedmp3players.co.uk).They don't come much smaller than the MPIO FY200. This mini marvel packs 512MB storage (around 10 hours of tunes), features an FM radio and, for those profound thoughts on the move, can be used as a basic voice recorder.
Dizzee Rascal, musicianThe first time Dylan Mills, aka Dizzee Rascal, left British shores was to shoot a video in Los Angeles just two years ago. He was 18. Since then, however, London-born Dizzee has travelled the world - winning the 2003 Mercury Music prize with his first album, Boy In Da Corner, quickly saw to that. Dizzee's percussive, hybrid form of garage went on to sell 200,000 copies in the UK. This autumn, promotional work and touring for his second album, Showtime, is taking him on his travels again, this time around Europe and as far afield as Brazil.With all those new sights to absorb, Dizzee's tiny Sony Cyber-shot 5 megapixel digital camera comes in handy, he says. "I bought it in Japan, because you can't get the black ones over here, just the silver ones," says Dizzee, as the photographer persuades him to balance on a shaky stool outside the offices of his record company. "It's like the best you can get so far," he says. "It's like a spy camera."And Japan didn't disappoint when it came to photo opportunities. "At the Fuji Rock Festival, they had these big animals made of car parts - there was a giant ant as high as a lamppost. You've seen that film Starship Troopers? That's what it reminded me of. And a tree made of exhausts. They had a whole section of all these mad, freakish things. It's some different zone over there."He also takes pictures on his Nokia 6600, one of two mobile phones he carries with him. At the moment, his other one is a Nokia N-Gage, complete with Tomb Raider game. So why does he need two phones? "One's for business; one's for bullshit."Dizzee has spent time around computers since he played games on his Amstrad as a child; later, a music teacher's introduction to composing on-screen as a young teenager set him on his current path, but he's still rather ambivalent about the benefits of technology, especially those phones."I can remember life without mobile phones," he says. "When if you weren't in your house, then no one could speak to you. Now people can phone you, they can email you. If they can't get hold of you, there's no excuse. They run your life."Dave Gorman, comedianThere's just one thing that bothers Dave Gorman about his Bug radio: its eyes. "It sounds fantastic," he says, "and it's a good-looking radio, but it's not my pet. It doesn't have a personality; I don't want it to have little eyes that wake up and go to sleep."The Bug is a recent purchase and Gorman is still excited about it. "It's fantastic and utterly ridiculous to be able to hear a song and go, 'I'd like to hear that again', and rewind and play it again when it's the radio." But then, he does like his electronics. The Bug sits on a desk next to a flat-screen iMac and his iPod in an iStation. It's all pretty distracting, he says, but then, "I'm a very distracted person when I'm working anyway. Most of the time I leave the radio running and don't rewind. Most times I've rewound it's been to go, 'Look, it rewinds!' That's the pleasure of gadgetry: because it can, I will."Last year, Gorman's love of gadgetry came into his work life. The Googlewhack Adventure was inspired by web searches of the billions of pages monitored by Google that return only one hit: Googlewhacks. Gorman discovered a chain of them and set off to visit the people behind the sites they were on. "I'm the idiot who got on the plane and went to China to meet someone who runs a website." His routine describes this 100,000-mile odyssey, while he displays tickets, boarding cards, photographs on a Power Point projector.After the research came months of touring, and near-constant travel has made him dependent on his computers. "I have two laptops: one to run the show on and one to run my life on. I'm so 21st century it's even how I communicate with my parents. We email each other." Gorman maintains his own website, and is finding that, as he becomes better known, he receives more bizarre emails. "I got one the other day saying, 'Would you like to come to Sweden to take part in a snowball fight for a day' - a complete stranger. I get those all the time. He laughs, and brings up another email: "I don't want the person who wrote it to feel pissed off, but I find this a bit scary: 'Dave do you fancy a date? Two years ago I stood behind you in a queue at the BBC ... I took a mental note of the name on your badge.'" It's not just the Bug watching him&#183;Dave Gorman's Googlewhack Adventure is out on DVD this month.Edith Bowman, DJOne of the first things Radio 1 DJ Edith Bowman learned from her dad was how to change a plug. Since then, she's graduated to electronics of all kinds. "I've definitely inherited a gadget thing from him," she says, cuddling her first-generation iPod. "When I go home to Scotland, in my bedroom there are drawers full of my dad's gadgets: karaoke machines, video players ..."It was a good grounding for the technical side of hosting a radio show. "It makes me laugh when people go, 'You drive the desk? But you're a girl.' We've got this cartwall thing: it's touch-screen, with files we need like TV theme tunes, idents. It's like Minority Report, where Tom Cruise drags stuff down off a screen." Bowman, 29, began her career at MTV in 1996, and had stints on Capital, Sky and Channel 4's RI:SE. She upgrades her phone every year and stocks up on Mac accessories in the US, but the one thing she sticks with is her iPod; it currently holds 2,062 tunes. "I bought it in New York before they were easily available over here. It weighs a tonne and is enormous compared with the ones now. It's still amazing: this little box the size of a fag packet has got a third of my record collection on it."New generation iPods haven't tempted her away from something she treats as an old friend. "I had a look at those girlie, pastel-coloured new ones that are even tinier. But he's old reliable, goes everywhere with me. If you're on a trip, it's nice to have atmospheric soft music, to create playlists and mood albums. I made one after I'd split up with a boyfriend that was really angry, angsty female-heavy music. I've also got music for when I'm walking to the pub, good stomping music: Doves, that kind of thing. My pub one's called: Mine's a JD."She's knows he'll die one day, but she's hoping for a few more innovations before she has to buy a new one. "What I'd really like is if they developed one with the lyrics on screen. If you're like, 'What the hell's he saying?' you've got it there. And you have your own karaoke machine at your fingertips, which is perfect. My dad's was the size of a wardrobe."
I'm of a mind that there are certain things that, if you haven't mastered them by the time you're 15, you shouldn't try because you'll look and/ or sound stupid. Since you ask, here they are: skiing, tennis, riding a bike and dead languages. And then there are things that, if you haven't got hooked on them by the time you're 15, you should never, ever blow your good fortune by taking them up in adulthood. Here are those: smoking, counting calories, reading horoscopes. And where these two categories intersect, there lurks only one evil: video games. I think you'd have a job finding anything else in life that pulled off this combination of difficulty and pointlessness.Games expert Simon Munk, who has set up a load for me to try out, has been playing these things for 20 years. He has hand-eye coordination to die for, and can decipher the thrust, narrative and end point of a new game in the time it takes me to work out which one of the little people is meant to be me. He has a PlayStation 2, people, and an Xbox (PlayStation 2, Xbox and PCs are the three major games platforms). Plus he has a huge thing that looks like a flight deck, which I guess is for playing something that involves a plane, and the full raft of activities you can entertain yourself with on a PC. The only way I can entertain myself on a PC is by checking my emails every two minutes for the really exciting one that never arrives. There. I just did it again.His newest gadget is an Eye Toy for the PlayStation 2, a small camera mounted on the telly, which you stand in front of. Lo, there you are, on the TV screen. It's not an edifying spectacle. You don't look anything like Jennifer Aniston. The games are pretty varied; the absolutely basic, grandmother-could-master-it, family-fun game is Wishi-Washi. I'm going to describe this to you, and you're going to think I'm joking, but I'm not. So, the TV screen is covered in a snowy patina. As you move your arms, you clean the screen, and when it's completely clean, you move on to ... the next dirty window! Oh, the fun. Sometimes there's a particularly hard-to-shift patch of virtual dirt, or maybe the dirty bit comes back after you've cleaned it, like having an incontinent pet on your lap. And as bewitching as this fantasy is, the reality is that you're just standing in your living room waving your arms about. Likewise the dancing game (Eye Toy Groove) and the fighting game (Kung Foo).More textured are the nostalgia games in classic compilation Midway Arcade Treasures (available on multiple platforms). When I say textured, I really mean bizarre. After two decades of effort devising very good graphics, someone has applied that expertise to recreating the crappy graphics of the 1980s. Simon says this is like dad rock, by which he means (I think) that there's no inherent value to any of it, beyond a funny warm feeling (I come back to the incontinent pet). They've got   Paperboy, where you ride up an electronic street and try to throw papers into letterboxes while dodging hazards such as a couple of drunks having a fight (Simon quite likes that). And Robotron 2084 (he really likes that, in a poetic way: "Once you get really good and kill a whole screen, you get a new screen with more on there. It's like a metaphor for life!"). I found the first too hard, and the second too hard but more compelling. I could probably find a metaphor in there for my life, but it would only depress me.Burnout Three (multiple platforms) is a whole different potato, a gamer's game (if you will), in which all the features of Burnout Two have been made slightly better. It's car racing; you have to take risks by ramming other cars. Then you have to reach the finish line before the others. There's something called boost involved, which makes you go faster. This is a lot more fun if you know how to steer. When you don't, you spend your entire time in a wall. Mind, you should see me driving a real car. Simon's really, really good at this (obviously), but it isn't his all-time favourite gaming experience. There have been times when he has loved a game so much that he's stopped blinking for hours, until his eyeballs looked like Halloween gobstoppers. I hope you're impressed by that information; I know I was.The big seller is Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (multiple platforms). Even I'd heard of it. Simon isn't too keen on this one, because it's kind of formless, but he concedes its wit and vim, as do I. It's pure delinquency in game form: you steal cars and run away from policemen, then visit prostitutes, pay them, beat them to death and steal your money back. This was my gaming epiphany. Even though I was rubbish - I kept getting out of my car when I meant to accelerate and I was arrested every minute and a half - I can see myself playing it for a long, long time. If I had a console - which, thank Christ, I don't.If I'd encountered Sims 2 without having had such a positive experience, I would have gotten to thinking that this business is insane, and given the millions upon millions of people engaged in it, this world is not my home. Played on a PC, this is just a grim trawl through virtual family life. There's a family. You have to make them all happy, by letting them have affairs with the maid and making sure they pass their exams. Simon calls it a classic life-stealer - once you're into it, you can lose hundred of hours to it. I just don't get it - it's all so pointless. I swear, if this could steal my life, then a cow could steal my wallet.On balance, then, nothing shook me from my starting point: if you haven't already been there, don't go there. Unless it's Grand Theft Auto. In which case, go there, but remember it's just a toy, and prostitutes are people, too.&#183;Simon Munk is the editor of games websitegames-digest.com
SaveSupersampler cameraIn this age of megapixels and sleek silver cameras the size of matchboxes, there's something comforting about going lo-tech with this retro gem. Its four lenses capture sequential shots on a single photo, so even if you're rubbish at taking pictures, you can make your duffness look arty. That's nice, isn't it? (Yes.) And it's got a ripcord action. Pretend it's a parachute, why don't you!PowerbookYou know I said lo-tech was cosy? Well, I've changed my mind. The Apple G4 Powerbook is worthy of Star Trek (the later generations) and is, in my head anyway, powered by dilithium and has a warp drive. OK, so it's disguised as a Superdrive that reads and writes DVDs and CDs, but it makes the same noise when it starts up. It has the world's first 17in laptop screen. It's only 1in thick. It's proof that the machines will win in the end. Resistance is futile.SingStar for PlayStation 2What's not to like about competitive karaoke you can play through your telly? Yodel with Jamelia! Whine with Westlife! Pray you don't get chosen to singalong a Mot&#246;rhead. There are days of fun to be had imagining you're a pop star while playmates guffaw. You may, after you've played it the eleventeenth time, tire of Kung Fu Fighting with Daniel Bedingfield, but you won't be able to resist playing it again. Wish for a Now-style spewing-forth of more volumes with new songs from the pop charts.iTalkYou plug the iTalk into the top of your iPod to turn it into a recording device. iCaramba! It's ideal if you're a journalist or simply enjoy taping all your conversations. Which, of course, makes you a freak. Which, of course, means you'd make a perfect journalist.DeleteUgly speakersIs it beyond the capabilities of purveyors of home entertainment technology to come up with a music system sufficiently attractive that you'd actually want it in your house? Apparently it is. If I wanted something this ugly in my house, I'd move in Leslie Grantham.All-in-one remotesOn a related note, why on earth would you want to replace all the remotes you have that actually match your state-of-the-art telly, stereo, VCR and DVD players with one that looks as if it was designed by a nine-year-old with a jumbo box of crayons? Answer: you wouldn't. Unless you have no taste. And that being the case, you don't deserve the aforementioned shiny toys and I will be round shortly (when you're out) to confiscate them.Vintage arcade gamesNostalgia is a disease. That's why the phrase goes "feeling nostalgic" like "feeling sick". Thus, olde video games are for those (men) who still hanker after their heady teenage days when all they did all day was play Pac-Man and masturbate, occasionally simultaneously. Who has room in their house for such smelly relics from dodgy arcades? Someone with no life to get in the way, that's who.RobotsLike executive toys and desktop fridges, all robots are wrong, wrong, wrong. They were wrong in Buck Rogers (Twiki was actually the evil genius behind all woes that befell earth, our hero and the effervescent Wilma Deering), they were wrong in Terminator, and they're wrong in any kind of home setting. Who do you think you are, anyway? A Jetson?Bluetooth headsetsYes, you too can look like an inner-city crack dealer.
Earlier this week I posted a link to an article entitledWhy aren't videogames funny?It prompted several interesting responses, so I thought I'd draw your attention tothis reactionfrom Ron Gilbert, creator of the Monkey Island series, officially the funniest games ever made. I think he just about nails it.When you've read that, check out his Grumpy Gamercomics. Nowthey'refunny...
Thanks to reader Sandy Arnott, who got in touch to suggest some good open source applications in response to ourcover feature on Firefox."As a word processor I'd recommendAbiwordrather than Open Office. It does enough for most people and is a lot less bloated than the Office suites."Sandy also puts forward the following:"For FTP -FilezillaBasic web page creation -NVUNews Group Reader -Pan(better thanThunderbird)SSH/Telnet -PuttyNetwork monitoring -Ethereal(Nmapfor the more adventurous)Remote Desktop -VNCWeb site development -XamppContent Management -Zope/Plone(and with Xampp the various Nukes, Mambo and phpBB)"Can't say I've used all these, but thanks for the suggestions. Anyone got any other applications they think deserve a mention?
It's been quite a week for gaming releases. The golden orb, of course, goes to Halo 2, but others deserve praise too. Continue reading for full reports on The Urbz: Sims in the City, Paper Mario: The Thousand Year Door, The Getaway 2: Black Monday and Legend of Zelda: The Minish Cap. No new IP, but still keeping up appearances.Halo 2What in the world can we say that's not been saidbefore. Wowee. Golly gee. My goodness gracious. Barely was able to break myself away from the game two write this blog entry. Not quite the number one game of all time, but certainly the second in command – after the original of course. Gadzooks. Tremendous. Check outGreg's gushingsfrom Online this week as well.The Urbz: Sims in the CityAfter the success of other "street" titles likeFIFA Street, EA's aiming their traditionally mainstream game The Sims at a broader market with TheUrbz: Sims in the City. While the idea is a good one, and diversity in games now means diversity in future releases, the application is moreBryant Gumbelthan GTA: San Andreas. True there are "yoot"-friendly features like a sweet soundtrack from theBlack Eyed Peas, cell phones, trendy threads and an emphasis on cred, but the interface is jittery and lies just below par. It's just not on a PC. While they won't alienate their core who is intrigued by the seedier side of SimCity (and don't have the patience to playSingles: Flirt up your Life), the functionality might put new players off. Still, a good effort for a traditionally square product.Paper Mario: The Thousand Year DoorAn enlightening and enlightened little offering from the Nintendo people, featuring a new look for their catalogue's most famous face,Paper Mario: The Thousand Year Dooris a surprising mix of platform adventure and role playing game. Actually the second in the series (but the first to make waves in Europe), this game did so well the first time around they didn't do much to the sequel. Think turn-based battles likePokemonorFinal Fantasyinstead of jumping up and down for magic mushrooms and you're on the right track.The Getaway 2: Black MondayAn intriguing sequel to theoriginalEast London gangsta game,Black Mondayis heavy on plot and schnazzy visuals but slightly lacking in gameplay mechanics. The homegrown title from Sony's Team Soho spent loads of time and energy to get the gritty look and feel, but ignored some of the issues which made the first one difficult to negotiate. The camera is a big one. However, the plot does leave you craving for more. The game should spark up the oldnarratolgy (storyline) vs. ludology (playability)debate again.Legend of Zelda: The Minish CapAnd to round out this week's AAA title round up (thank goodness the summer is over), the GBA gets its latestLegend of Zelda game: The Minish Cap. A tremendous effort on the part of the designers and developers, this time the cornerstone is the variation between large Link and small Link. This prequel to the series has a fantastic new look and a tremendous number of puzzles. Yet another one for those awkward public transport delays.
"Dell Inc. said yesterday that its quarterly profit climbed 25 percent, propelled by a steady increase in technology spending by American businesses and a surge in sales abroad. The company, the leading personal computer maker, said sales to the commercial sector in the United States rose 20 percent, ahead of the overall industry growth rate of just under 12 percent worldwide," reportsThe New York Times.Revenues grew by 18% to $12.5 billion and profits reached $846 million."Dell said it sold eight million personal computers, notebooks, servers and other devices, setting a record in unit sales for any quarter. Mr Rollins [Dell's chief executive] said the company gained market share in the personal computer market, now 18.1 percent of the worldwide personal computer market, up from 16.9 percent for the last year."
"Intel Corp, the world's largest computer chipmaker, said Chief Executive Craig Barrett plans to step aside and be replaced by President Paul Otellini, in a long-planned move," reportsReuters."In a statement, the company said Barrett will take over as chairman, replacing Andy Grove, the company's previous CEO, all as part of a previously announced succession plan."Update:Today's Wall Street Journal says that although the switch was widely expected, "the appointment nevertheless marks an inflection point for both Intel and Silicon Valley, as a generation of executives who were steeped in chip-manufacturing expertise yield to younger successors with different skills."
Microsoft is usually quick off the draw... not this time, reportsCNet."Microsoft introduced its Excel spreadsheet program in 1985, but didn't get around to officially registering its trademark until earlier this year. ""The company filed a trademark application for Excel in April, even though the name is already protected by something called common law trademark, said Microsoft spokeswoman Stacy Drake. The company wants to make it official with the United States Patent and Trademark Office because "it doesn't hurt to take it one step further," Drake said.""It may also have something to do with the fact that dozens of software products now feature "Excel" in their names. TurboExcel, developed by a New York company called Savvysoft, is one of them. Microsoft recently sent a letter to the company, demanding it change the product's name. The software giant has approached a number of others about Excel trademark infringements as well, Drake said. She declined to name them."
John Peel's inimitable style might be irreplaceable, but an innovative online service is hoping it can offer some solace to the small record labels he championed.With the music market dominated by saccharine pop acts, music-matching sites such as Audioscrobbler say they aim to promote new music and broaden listeners' audio horizons - and benefit independent record companies who find themselves unable to compete with the majors."This is absolutely one of the beauties of music online," said Sam Shentob, of the Association of Independent Music (AIM), the trade body that represents the UK's small labels."Services like Audioscrobbler are a boon for independent music, which traditionally has to fight in areas that are saturated by big marketing budgets."The site, which started as a university project, is celebrating its second birthday with the launch of a new and improved engine. It has 30,000 active users and is registering more than 750,000 tracks every day.The concept is simple: the program notes what you are listening to whenever you play a track on your computer. By following your behaviour, it builds up a profile of your listening habits and compares you with other users. By examining the playlists of like-minded fans, it can suggest that you listen to artists which your "musical neighbours" recommend."Word of mouth is one of the greatest 'tastemakers' you can have. It's extremely democratic," said Steve Johnston, the head of licensing at AIM. "Sometimes people are stumped by the sheer amount of tracks available. These services try to offer them things they might enjoy.""The original train of thought was to have a lazy way of finding the best new music," says Richard Jones, 22, who built the Audioscrobbler software as part of his final year university dissertation."I didn't want to have to read all the magazines, trawl record shops and listen to the radio all the time."What started as a pet project quickly became a profession. When the site opened, thousands of people tried it, and it caught the attention of a new company called Last.fm, which provides personalised online radio. Mr Jones joined the team, and Audioscrobbler now forms the backbone of their service."When we started, I moved to London to work on the project. Two of us slept in tents on the terrace," says Mr Jones. "Now there are four of us working full-time on the project, and there are 150 record labels that are sending us stuff to promote their new artists."Ease of promotion is one of the reasons the music industry is finally starting to take notice of such web services, and they particularly appeal to independent labels that have little money to spend on promoting or developing new acts."If somebody was listening to our artists before, nobody knew," says Akin Fernandez, the founder of the independent label irdial. "Now we've had more people listening to our music than ever before. It's a very accurate picture of what's happening in people's ears right now."While the mainstream record industry fights illegal downloading, smaller labels are using Audioscrobbler and its cousins - the acceptable face of peer-to-peer music sharing - as a viral marketing tool.Success lies in being able to capture wider information and increase the depth of musical recommendations.There are already add-ons, which register the tracks being played on Apple's iPod music player. The ultimate aim is to be able to track what people listen to on their hi-fi systems as well.Even if most music fans claim to have eclectic tastes, music-matching sites can find common strands in the most esoteric record collections. The service also reflects what is happening at music's grassroots at any given moment."When it was announced that John Peel had died, the number of people playing The Undertones' Teenage Kicks began to shoot up," says Mr Jones. "It carried on until it was right at the top of our charts."Pick of the sitesLast.fmA personalised online radio station, powered by Audioscrobbler, which works out which music you like and plays it to you. Free, but funded by onsite revenues and special subscriptions.www.last.fmMusicmobsVery similar to Audioscrobbler but built specifically for users of Apple's iTunes music-playing software.www.musicmobs.comWeedLegalised file sharing. Listen to a track, buy it if you like it - and then take a share of the profit if you sell it on to your friends.www.weedshare.comYahoo! LaunchThe corporate version of Last.fm: users have to rate tracks they listen to. Free to listen to, but listeners must endure on-air advertising.http://launch.yahoo.com
Google could be facing its biggest threat yet after Microsoft yesterday made its long anticipated move into the internet search engine market.The Microsoft search engine flickered into life in the early hours of the morning amid uncharacteristically little noise. Microsoft is "soft" launching the service in beta, or test mode, allowing the firm to continue to fine-tune the system with feedback from users.It is available in the US and 26 other countries at beta.search.msn.com and is expected to be fully operational in the early part of next year. Microsoft has eyed the extraordinary success of Google enviously.The software firm's MSN internet portal has until now been relying on Inktomi, a division of Yahoo, to power its search services. The new service developed in-house will have far deeper capabilities.Advertising alongside search listings has become the fastest growing revenue spinner on the internet. In its maiden results as a public company, Google said it had generated revenues of $2.2bn in the first nine months of the year.Microsoft said its service culls results from 5bn web documents. It also promises to provide answers to direct questions, such as "what is the second-longest coastline in the world?" A "search near me" function enables users to sift through local relevant information. Like Google it will offer news and image searches.Google has a long head start and for many internet users has become the default setting for internet searches. It has 36.1% of the online search market. Yahoo is currently ranked No 2 with 30.6%. Microsoft's existing service is third with 14.4%. Microsoft though has a track record of coming late to a market and then muscling its way into a dominant position.More recently the software firm has found the going tougher in its attempt to crack some markets, like cable set-top boxes, mobile phone software and video games. Still, Microsoft has deep pockets and has shown dogged patience.In an attempt to stay ahead of Microsoft, Google earlier this week announced that it had improved its own technology so that more than 8bn pages were now searchable, up from 4bn. Google also recently announced a service allowing users to search books.&#183;Intel yesterday named Paul Otellini as its next chief executive, following the planned retirement of Craig Barrett in May next year. Mr Otellini is a 30-year Intel veteran who made his name overseeing the launch of the Pentium processor in 1993.
Clive Cookson reports on the nanotechnology hope for potential sufferers of Alzheimer's disease in today'sFinancial Times."An ultra-sensitive new diagnostic system based on bionanotechnology could provide the first blood test for Alzheimer's disease, a scientific conference in London heard yesterday. The "bio-bar-code" assay detects a toxic protein called ADDL."Chad Mirkin, director of theNorthwestern University Institute of Nanotechnology in Illinois, says the bio-bar-code could be applied in principle to any biological molecule - and is 1m times more sensitive than the conventional "Elisa" test for proteins in blood. In addition to Alzheimer's, the Northwestern scientists hope to exploit the technology to detect prion diseases, HIV infection and various cancers."
Internet leaks of Eminem's forthcoming album have forced Polydor Records to bring the release forward to prevent the loss of thousands of pounds as pirated copies became widely available.Originally scheduled to be released next Monday, November 15, the album, Encore, will be on sale from today.Polydor said it was advised of the leak this week, and because it was unable to detect how many tracks had been posted on the net, decided to bring the release forward by three days."With something like that it can spread like wildfire," Polydor said yesterday."Once one person downloads it, it can be in everyone's inbox and just goes crazy. It's a nice bit of hype and pre-publicity, but it is quite a pain to have to rush something out like this."It is not the first time an Eminem release has been bought forward. His last album, The Eminem Show, came out early as a damage control exercise after pirated copies began appearing on American street stalls.Island Records has also had to decide whether to release U2's new album early this week, after copies began appearing on the internet two weeks before its schedule release date.The band had concerns that the hugely anticipated album would be the target for internet pirates after a tape was stolen from a recording studio in Nice this summer.But Island Records has said the release date will remain the same, and the album would be available from November 22.
BT reported its strongest quarterly results for almost three years yesterday as rising demand for broadband internet access and the success of its IT services arm offset continued declines in the company's core residential telephony business.But the figures were overshadowed by confusion over whether the company's retail arm intends to spend tens of millions of pounds putting new kit into phone exchanges and taking control of residential lines, a process known as local loop unbundling.Recently Pierre Danon, vociferous head of BT Retail, has made it plain that he wants to get involved in local loop unbundling. It would reduce costs and allow BT's internet service provider to design innovative services such as video-on-demand to compete with rivals such as AOL and Wanadoo.Such a move would significantly hit revenues at BT Wholesale, which "rents out" residential phone lines for broadband access. BT Retail is its largest customer.The debate is rumoured to have spilled over into a stand-up row between Mr Danon and chief executive Ben Verwaayen at a recent board meeting. Yesterday BT's chairman Sir Christopher Bland denied any suggestions of an internal power struggle."The boardroom row that was reported? I chaired that board meeting and on the whole I do not go to sleep during my own meetings. I think that's rude. I did go for a comfort break for about a minute and a half during the discussion of corporate and social responsibility ... so if there was a row it was incredibly short."Mr Danon reiterated yester day that the residential broadband market "is a market that is sensitive to price so we need to be competitive on price".When other players start using local loop unbundling next year, BT Retail will be at a disadvantage.BT has not ruled out using local loop unbundling, but Sir Christopher said that if BT Retail were to stop taking wholesale broadband services it would have a negative effect on BT Wholesale's plans to spend &#163;10bn over four years on a new core network.BT is discussing with regulator Ofcom, due to publish its interim report on the telecoms market next Thursday, the possibility of creating a new BT Wholesale product which would remove the need for its retail business to get involved in local loop unbundling."This is not a debate between BT and BT. That would be solved in a heartbeat," said Mr Verwaayen. "This is a debate in the industry."Although such a product would have to be available to others in the industry, any special privileges granted to BT by the regulator are likely to be unpalatable to rivals such as NTL and Cable &amp; Wireless who have committed themselves to investing considerable sums in local loop unbundling.The need for BT Retail to get back in the broadband game was highlighted by yesterday's second quarter figures. While BT Retail's ISP business has 39% of the consumer broadband market it could only secure 30% of total new customers in the quarter. BT Retail was also the only business unit to record a drop in turnover - down 2% at &#163;3.1bn. During the quarter, fierce competition in the residential telephony market saw BT lose a net 100,000 customers a month.Overall, BT saw revenues rise 2% to &#163;4.6bn in the three months to end September, as a 36% jump in sales of so-called new wave services, such as wholesale broadband access, compensated for a 6% drop in turnover from its traditional businesses. Second quarter pre-tax profits of &#163;549m were also above expectations, pushing BT's shares higher.
You fight your way through a hectic discount store, slip through a back door and climb three flights of stairs to a dingy hallway. Down a tangle of corridors is a grim little room, illuminated by a small window and a single fluorescent tube. It's 10am but already about 20 men and boys are hunched over the smeared screens and tacky keyboards.More than 20 million people in China depend on cafes like this one in central Shanghai to use the internet. But access comes at a price far higher than the two or three yuan (less than 20p) charged for an hour's session.The seedy, illicit air of this cafe belies the fact that these venues are under official scrutiny. All customers must register with identity documents, ensuring that the country's internet police force - alleged to be 30,000-strong - can track them down easily. The government has also ensured that cafes install local filters to reinforce the nationwide censorship system dubbed "the Great Firewall of China".Shanghai, which has the highest level of internet usage in the country, is subject to additional controls, which might be extended. Since June, it has been compulsory for cafes to install a video camera and software that detects any attempt to browse a banned site, then automatically informs government supervisors.If you try to access the BBC, for instance, you're told that the server is not available. Type in the name of Louisa Lim, its Beijing correspondent, and the search engine will return results for her stories - but will refuse to let you have access.Only last week, the government's China Internet Network Information Center reported that inspectors had visited 1.8 million cafes in a six-month crackdown, closing down 18,000 temporarily and 1,600 for good. Beijing says it is concerned about young people accessing pornographic or violent sites. Human rights groups say that it is trying to silence critics.Logging on at home is not necessarily safer. Individuals are being arrested and detained for lengthy periods, often without trial, for disseminating information judged to be seditious via the internet. A report issued earlier this year by Reporters Without Borders noted that at least 61 "cyberdissidents" were in prison. Others have been detained for "spreading rumours" - eg comments on the government's handling of the Sars crisis - via text messages.This is a tiny number, when you consider that by the end of the year China will have 111 million internet users (making it the largest online community in the world after the US), but such repression does serve to crystallise arguments about how economic development will affect social and political life in China.The rosy-eyed view of many western theorists in the 80s and 90s was that introducing market forces would automatically lead to radical political change. Businesses would be unable to prosper without an unhindered flow of information and the rule of law (that is, an independent legal framework in place of an elaborate legal code that could none the less be amended at the whim of officeholders). This would in turn lead to representative government. The development of the internet could be seen as a microcosm of this; Bill Clinton described it as a harbinger of democracy. Optimists believed that Beijing could not control it and that Chinese citizens, discovering free information sources, would acquire an irresistible taste for openness and political assertion.Critics say that far from promoting civil and political liberties, capitalism has helped to reinforce repression as western companies compromise their principles in return for a share in a huge market. Ben Carrdus, a researcher on Amnesty International's China team, says: "It seems disingenuous for companies to say their presence improves human rights when they act on behalf of, or tailor their products to, the demands of censors."Google came under fire when it emerged that banned sites did not appear in news-search results for Chinese users. The company says that it is simply ensuring that users are not frustrated by trying to reach inaccessible sites.But things may not be as bad as they seem, and US claims of "hundreds of thousands" of sites being blocked may be an exaggeration. "The first time I went into a chatroom about the Dalai Lama, I thought that within half an hour police would storm my apartment," says Fons Tuinstra, a Dutch journalist based in Shanghai for the past decade. "That doesn't happen. At worst &#91;blocking&#93; is a nuisance. It's symbolic: they block a very small number of sites and it's so easy to go around it."You can replace a character with one that sounds similar (four or five different characters can stand for "hu", "jin" and "tao", for example, allowing one to spell the president's name phonetically), or write allusively, perhaps using stories from ancient China to illuminate current affairs. One of the country's most popular search terms is "proxy", whereby another computer acts as an intermediary for surfers, helping them to access banned websites and helping to disguise their interests.The internet cafe I visited never bothered to register me. No alarm bells rang when I tried to access the BBC; a couple of BBC stories had been mirrored on accessible webpages, and among the results on a Google websearch was a site discussing the Tiananmen Square massacre (although I couldn't reach it).Not that this would have interested the other users, who were mostly deep in multi-player games. "The west thinks that people here wake up every morning and think, 'Oh, I wish I had democracy,'" says Tuinstra, whose Connecting China project aims to encourage Chinese users to discuss their lives with the global online community. "When you talk to internet users here, they are going to play games and chat to their friends and maybe do some business. China doesn't need a firewall; people are not that inclined to look at &#91;news from&#93; other places anyway - just like users in the US and UK."But when you talk to users, it is clear that at least a small minority is keen to evade censorship, but frightened to discuss the fact that they're doing so. One young woman - too scared to give her name - admits that she has used proxies to read about democracy and the Tiananmen Square massacres.But ask her to explain how she found out about the technology and banned sites and she clams up in a heartbeat. "It was when I was at university - I don't use them any more," she says. "Anyway, I don't want to talk about it."Accessing proxies can also be a problem; the authorities block them when they discover them, and users are wary of sharing information. As Tuinstra points out: "Letting people inform on each other still works much better than electronic surveillance."Better still is scaring users into censoring themselves. No one I spoke to could tell me where the figure of 30,000 internet policemen originated. But researchers pointed out that it was in Beijing's interests to persuade its citizens that Big Brother lurks in every cafe. Similarly, arrest a few people and you frighten many more into compliance."The people arrested are &#91;generally&#93; publishing information or releasing information to organisations outside," says Bill Xia of Dynamic Internet Technology, a US-based firm which provides a proxy network so that Chinese users can access banned webpages. "But for most people it's a fear that's everywhere. They have so many bad memories and know what the government can do for any - or no - reason."But he also argues that to regard the advent of democracy as the only test of the internet's worth is to set the stakes too high. He believes that it can help ordinary citizens as well as the better off. "There are cases where police have treated people badly, it's been reported outside the country, and that's prompted the authorities to take the matter up," he says. "Sometimes all it takes is a single email to make a really big story. The internet is already making a difference."
The preview of MSN Search had a difficult first day, with the site going down in the morning when the hordes went to play with it, and it may be unfair to judge it on its patchy start. However, it does seem to have design problems.Still, first impressions are good, as are the results. Indeed, they can be eerily similar to Google's. For example, run a UK search for the words "remembrance day" (without the quotes) and Woodlands Junior School comes first on Google, with Elaine's   Remembrance Day Poem Page second. The same two sites come second and third on MSN Search.The search results even look the same on both sites, with blue for the headings and green for the web addresses. MSN Search also provides cached versions of pages, and it groups results from the same site.The early indications are, therefore, that Microsoft has figured out how to copy what Google does. The hard part is how to be better than Google, and this is Microsoft's aspiration. It is trying to outdo Google partly by answering queries directly, by providing users with more control over results, and offering a geographical "near me" feature, among other things.Well, the "direct answer" feature works, but only for a limited number of queries. If you type in,   "What is the capital of France?" (without quotes), you get a line saying: "Answer: France. Capital: Paris." Google is not as good at this unless you are sharp enough to type the query as an answer: "The capital of France is" (including quotes).But the big hope for MSN Search is the chance to adjust results by using three sliders. You can move these to adjust the settings for approximate/exact matches, very/less popular sites, and updated recently/static sites.The good news is that if you set MSN Search to maximum on both "very popular" and "updated recently" you may well get better results than Google. The bad news is that you have to go through a pantomime to do it: click the "search builder" button, select "results ranking", then move two sliders. The worse news is that for the very next search, you have to go back and do it all over again. Microsoft's usability experts must have been asleep at the wheel.In sum, I'd suggest you forget about MSN Search until version three, next year. However, Microsoft has at least shown it has the potential to blow a serious hole in the good ship Google - if ever it gets the usability issues sorted out.
Whenever I've been to interview game developers they've always commented on the long hours/late-night pizza/kipping under desk lifestyle that seems to be a pre-requisite for making videogames. Afascinating articlehas emerged from a disgruntled partner of an EA employee talking about their partner's ridiculously long working hours. The point here isn't that it is EA - they are one of the most professional - but working conditions at game devs generally. Yes, things can get manic when final deadlines approach, but are all developers like this? If so, what does that say about the quality of management? With the likes of Halo 2 and GTAselling millions, isn't it time the guys and gals who actually make these games get a fair deal?
Phishing againJohn Naughton, in his Observer column, talks about "phishing", and mentions the need to disable Windows Scripting Host. How does one do this? I have Windows XP with SP2 installed.Michael MooreJack Schofield replies:The column was about a new type of phishing attack, which Sophos calls JS/QHosts21-A, using a virus-like technique, and MessageLabs's PR says it "clearly presented this particular one as very low risk". It might become significant in the future, but today, you would need to be using an unpatched version of Windows and have a bank account in Brazil, so your chances of getting it are indistinguishable from zero. You are at much greater risk of being stung by some very common phishing attacks, and you can test your gullibility by taking MailFrontier's Phishing IQ quiz athttp://survey.mailfrontier. com/survey/quiztest.html. You should get 10 out of 10 if you remember that nobody whose job it is to look after your account details will ever ask for them.The interesting point about the JavaScript QHosts21-A exploit is that, like some viruses and hijackers, it uses the obsolete internet Hosts file. Hosts can map a human-friendly host name (Google.com) to an IP address (66.249.64.45), though normally this would be done by your ISP's domain name server (DNS). The phishing virus aimed to put a different IP address in Hosts so that your computer would use the correct host name to take you to the wrong site. Search   your hard drive for hosts files and check that there's only one entry - 127.0.0.1 localhost - for your local PC. (Linux PCs and Macs have Hosts files, too.)In general, I like the idea of turning off Windows Scripting Host (WSH), and explained how to do when the LoveBug virus was rampant. Unfortunately, huge numbers of websites use Netscape's JavaScript or Microsoft's VBScript and work badly or not at all if you disable them. If you want to try it, see Sophos's instructions atwww.sophos.com/support/wsh.html..  In the meantime, make sure your Internet Explorer security settings are up to scratch. Go to Tools|Internet Options, click the Security tab, then the button marked Custom Level. This lets you disable ActiveX controls and scripts, or ask to be prompted before they are run. Any actions by unsigned controls and scripts not marked as safe should be disabled. Setting some others to Prompt will teach you how common these things are.Pirate XPI bought a "nearly new" notebook PC on eBay, but the Windows Update site will not install SP2: it says the copy of Windows XP Pro is invalid.Name withheldJS:Microsoft has said it wants to get SP2 on as many machines as possible, because of its much improved security, and it is generally updating PCs even if they have pirate copies of Windows XP. Yours is probably an old version that was also blocked from installing the first service pack, SP1. You can check the Product ID and Product Key used by downloading Everest Home Edition fromwww.lavalys.com. This excellent inventory program will tell you almost everything you need to know about your PC. Then do a web search on the first five letters of the Product Key. If they are FCKGW, you lose.Microsoft UK's Paul Randle says you can check whether a Microsoft product is a pirate copy by going towww.howtotell.com, and he suggests the easiest option is to buy a new copy of XP. A clean installation would be advisable, but if you install it as an upgrade, it should preserve your programs and data.Missing dllI have recently acquired an error message that says "error starting program missing csh.dll". It gives no clue as to what program it is. The computer works fine but it is very annoying.Stephen WessonJS:This file is part of AOL Instant Messenger and you should find it in the C:\Program files\AIM directory, or something similar. If you have AIM, you can either tell it not to start up in the background (which unnecessarily consumes resources) or reinstall AIM and check that the csh.dll file is present. It may help to run Startup Inspector for Windows (www.windowsstartup.com) or, if you are feeling geeky, Process Explorer from Sysinternals (http://masl.to/?Y2EC12099). Both are free.Backchat&#183;Last week, Robert Gardiner asked about taking back-ups on external drives. Raymond Mercier adds: "If you have a spare 5.25in bay you can install a removable drawer in it, and that can be used to hold the backup hard disk, connected as a slave. You get the advantage of a removable back-up, but one which is tidier and probably faster than an external drive plugged into USB or Firewire."&#183;Ed Dagnall reports that Norton Anti-Virus, which had been hiding from the Security Centre in Windows XP SP2, is now registering its presence. If so, you will no longer be warned that you are not running an AV program when you are.
It's a special open-source friendly edition of Online this week to mark the launch of Firefox 1.0...Glyn Moody takes a look atwhether the free browser can challenge Microsoft, and then shows wavering Windows usersan easy way to use Linux. Jack Schofield, meanwhile, says open source must produce a viablesoftware stackto really move on to the next level.Elsewhere, Ashley Norris talks aboutthe best digital video recorders, Games watchHalo 2 and Football Manager 2005, Victor Keegan wonders about3G phonesand Jack Schofield examines the pros and cons ofGoogle Desktop SearchThere's more: Ken Young observers the uptake ofRFID in librariesand Michael Cross discussesMicrosoft's latest deal with the NHS.All this and more in this week'sOnline...
Our patient is on the mend, but still needs to kick some bad habits. That's the rough verdict of an investigation published last week into measures aimed at stopping government IT projects going awry. It finds several "near misses" where new procedures identified flaws in government IT schemes and put them back on track.The report will come as a relief to a government that is at a critical stage in several multibillion-pound IT contracts and about to sign at least one more.In the report, the National Audit Office (NAO), parliament's investigative watchdog, says the Treasury's Office of Government Commerce has made significant strides in identifying why projects go wrong. However "these remain early days," said Sir John Bourn, the NAO's head, warning against complacency.The tendency of big IT projects to go wrong is hugely embarrassing to ministers. Almost every initiative on which Tony Blair's government is staking its reputation - from fighting terrorism to creating choice in the NHS to cutting civil service numbers - depends on large IT systems working properly.Huge sums of money are involved.   The NAO reveals that central government departments spent &#163;2.3bn on IT last year. That amounted to 16% of their total shopping bill, coming second only to accommodation costs. It is twice as much as government spends on roads. When local councils, the NHS and the armed forces are included, the total rises three-fold. IDC, a market research firm, says the British public sector spends about $10.1bn (&#163;7.8bn) a year on IT, more than every other European country save France ($10.5bn).After a series of high-profile fiascos in the 1990s, the government and IT industry put in place new measures to prevent further failures.According to the NAO, the most effective is a review process called Gateway. This involves independent scrutineers examining every high-risk project at six critical stages in planning, procurement and implementation.Gateway reviews classify projects as red, amber or green. A red rating requires the project team to take action immediately, amber means it can go forward provided recommendations are acted on before the next review, while green means the project is on target apart from minor matters.Projects classified as "mission   critical" to some aspect of government policy receive similar ratings, which are reported to the prime minister every four months.Normally, results of Gateway reviews are secret. However, the report sheds light on the process by investigating how it worked in major projects run by the Department for Work and Pensions, the Home Office and the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA).The most dramatic turnaround was at a DVLA project, labelled Pact (Partners achieving change together). The idea was to set up a contract under which the agency would work with an IT outsourcing firm to create new services, such as online payments for car tax, while saving money.A Gateway review in June 2001 concluded that the project was in a precarious position, with a large amount of work to be done before   suppliers could be invited to bid.While the shock "focused the attention of the board, advisers and prospective suppliers", the next Gateway 10 months later still produced a red light. Reviewers found that "continuing value for money had not been secured due to a lack of transparency of the commercial arrangements" - in other words, the agency would not know how much money the supplier would be making.In response, the agency negotiated an "open book" deal with suppliers IBM and Fujitsu and a contract worth &#163;550m was let in September 2002. The NAO reports the project is now going well, with electronic vehicle re-licensing launched in February this year. (It overlooks the fact that the DVLA has yet to publicise the service, available to cognoscenti atwww.vehiclelicence.gov.uk.)Two of the projects studied by the NAO originated in high-profile government IT failures: the Casework immigration system and the Benefits Payment Card. Both failed for well-understood reasons, the NAO says. Casework was "a classic example of a 'big bang' implementation which is now prohibited", while the Benefits Payment Card "lacked ... ministerial ownership and leadership". Thanks to Gateway, the NAO says, successor programmes are on track.Computer suppliers welcomed the NAO's report. "Britain will only have public services based on value for money, efficiency and effectiveness when government and industry have successfully cultivated a modern relationship based on openness and trust," said Nick Kalisperas, director of public sector at Intellect, an industry body.However, the NAO warns that public bodies still need to ensure Gateway processes are "ingrained in departmental thinking". It recommends that findings of reviews are disseminated more widely - but stops short of recommending their publication.&#183;Improving IT procurement, National Audit Officewww.nao.org.ukIf you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
From a business point of view, an operating system kernel - which is what Linux is - is more or less useless. What businesses want is something that can do real work, and that means a combination of many layers of software, nowadays known as "the stack".Any software stack will include the kernel and its associated operating system, middleware, applications and utilities, all of which have to be integrated and tested. Building a stack involves turning a collection of disparate parts, many of them developed in isolation, into a stable and, above all, supportable business system.This is a time-consuming and expensive operation. The question is, who is going to do it for open source, which has lots of choices   but no organisation, no road map, no integration testing and no formal verification process.Well, this is where the money is, so there's no shortage of candidates. Three major stack-building efforts are currently under way at Red Hat, Novell (which has taken over SuSE Linux and Ximian), and IBM. Some start-ups are also tackling the problem. Among the first to declare an interest are SourceLabs and SpikeSource.SourceLabs is backed by Brad Silverberg, who used to run Windows while at Microsoft, and includes staff formerly at BEA Systems. SpikeSource is headed by Kim Polese, who was Sun's Java product manager and chief executive of Marimba, and backed by Ray Lane, former president of Oracle. It is being funded by a leading venture capital company,   Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers."SpikeSource will set the standard for validating, integrating, testing, certifying and supporting open source components," says its website.Both companies are, sensibly, starting with the working stack that has already made Linux very successful in the web server market: Lamp. This is based on Linux, the Apache web server, MySQL database, and Perl, Python or PHP. (Seehttp://masl.to/?T23515DB9). To this they are adding Sun's Java, which is not open source, and other applications needed to appeal to business buyers.The ultimate aim is to turn the products of something like 85,000 independent open source projects into supportable configurations that businesses can install easily and with confidence, just as they   can install Lamp web servers today.It is hard to say how successful SourceLabs and SpikeSource might become. They are not standards agencies, and there's no reason why the open source movement should take them seriously. However, there is a benefit to having standardised software configurations, for businesses and support organisations, and this is a way to get them.One potential problem is that all the different players, including Red Hat and Novell, could produce mutually incompatible stacks. As Sun's chief executive, Jonathan Schwartz, has pointed out, this turned out to be a major problem with the supposedly compatible Unix business on which GNU/Linux is modelled.It is a problem we'd like GNU/ Linux to avoid, but how? The Free Standards Group's Linux Standard Base (LSB) is at least a start.&#183;SourceLabswww.sourcelabs.com&#183;SpikeSourcewww.spikesource.com&#183;Linux Standards Basewww.linuxbase.org&#183;Jonathan's Bloghttp://masl.to/?B12153BB9&#183;Lamp lights up the worldwww.guardian.co.uk/online/story/0,3605,941790,00.htmlIf you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Imagine a library system that knows where every book is and allows visitors to return and issue books automatically. That dream is slowly becoming a reality as libraries adopt the use of tiny Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) tags for tracking books and audiovisual items.Tiny RFID tags can store detailed information about an item, which is then sent via radio waves to a reading device - either a handheld or fixed unit. The technology is used for tracking the movement of goods in the retail industry, but it is making inroads in other areas, such as library management systems.The Vatican Library in Rome is the latest, and one of the most high profile, of scores of libraries worldwide that are adopting RFID tagging of books and other items. During the past year, the library has tagged 50,000 of the 120,000 volumes in its public reading rooms. It plans to tag 2m of the Vatican's 40m piece collection over the next few years.The main benefit is that books can be checked quickly using a handheld reader, reducing stocktaking time from weeks to half a day. Each book also retains details of its usage, which can be read in an instant. The tag can be used as a security device, triggering alarms if a book is removed without being issued. With automated check-ins, it can allow 24-hour returns, like a video shop.Because most libraries have library management IT systems, the data for the tags can be generated from the library's database. The data can include a number of fields such as the book's unique identifier, loan record and bar code number.The tag, costing around 45p, is manually stuck into the book's inner spine or close to the spine in the inside cover, sometimes using special non-damaging glue. The library then uses handheld readers to perform stocktakes, while fixed readers at issuing desks scan books entering or leaving the library. A stack of books can be scanned in seconds, significantly reducing the time and staff needed to manage loans. In some libraries, this activity has become partly self-service.According to The RFID Knowledgebase, a research service, US libraries lead the world in RFID use, with the UK and Japan equal second. It estimates that 35m library items have been tagged worldwide.In the UK, 18 libraries are using the technology, either in pilot projects or with complete systems. The latest - and possibly the largest to go live - is the Hendon Campus Library at Middlesex University. This new library has selected a &#163;200,000 system from Switzerland-based Biblioteca, which has been installed by its UK distributor D-Link in association with Dynix, the university's library management system supplier. D-Link has also installed similar systems at Nottingham Trent University's library, Colchester public library, the Barbican library in London and Norwich Millennium library.So far, 250,000 of HCL's 300,000 books have been tagged in a three-week period, despite the library thinking it might take two months. Marvin Crisp, the managing director of D-Link, says there are immediate security benefits: "If someone walks out of the library with a book, it is automatically scanned, so they   instantly know which book it was. That was never possible before." It is also possible to do a stocktake using a handheld reader while walking slowly past each shelf: there is no need to open a single book.Crisp believes that RFID systems are only scratching the surface of their potential. "It is possible to make returns fully automated using a device that sorts returned books for you. It is also possible to have 'intelligent shelving' by putting antennas throughout the library so books can be constantly monitored. This means that if a book is misplaced, its location will automatically be noted; therefore it can be easily found."Because the data on borrowing can be kept on the tag, it is technically possible to walk around the library to weed out items not regularly used: books that have not been taken out for more than a year, for example.But with concerns about cost, it won't be adopted overnight. Crisp   says that most of the library systems installed have been with new libraries or those involved in new extensions. "That way, it is possible to put the cost of RFID into the building budget," he adds.At the British Library in London, cost is a key concern: "We are looking at the technology with a view to running a pilot next year," says Dawn Olney, head of collection and storage, "but with a collection of 150m items, we are concerned about cost. We are trying to identify which items to tag in a trial project. If lots of libraries opt for RFID, then prices will come down, making it more feasible."The library's inventory includes books, manuscripts, maps, newspapers, magazines, prints and drawings, scores, patents and stamps.Fortunately, the British Library is in a position to use RFID as a leapfrog technology because, unlike most public libraries, it does not barcode its books. It uses a simple shelf   marking system, and could upgrade without going via barcodes.The next "flagship" library system will be Brighton's new &#163;14m city centre Jubilee library, which will hold 110,000 books and 16,000 audiovisual items. The system, which is being installed by Manchester-based specialists Intellident, will go live when the library opens in March. Intellident has 15 RFID library installations in the south of England, and recently secured an agreement to RFID-enable Essex's public libraries.Sally McMahon, head of libraries at Brighton &amp; Hove City Council, says: "RFID technology will transform the way we deliver public library services. The remit of a library is much wider nowadays, and this will free staff to play a more supporting role running classes and helping people. But there will always be staff present."If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Fixing the serious flaws in Microsoft's Internet Explorer is easy: just switch to the free Firefox browser. Similarly, Outlook Express's bugs can be avoided by using Firefox's companion mail program, Thunderbird. But what do you do when the problem lies deep within Windows itself? The obvious solution - moving to GNU/Linux - represents such a leap into the unknown that few are brave enough to try it. If only there were a risk-free way to try out GNU/Linux.There is. "Live CDs" can turn your Windows PC into a GNU/Linux box without installing a file on your hard disk (versions for the Apple Mac are less actively developed). The trick is to set up your PC to access the live CD before it looks at the hard drive as it boots up: the Windows software is bypassed, and a version of the GNU/Linux operating system can be copied from the CD into Ram - the PC's temporary workspace.Ram is so cheap that most machines have several hundred megabytes - more than enough to run a lean operating system such as GNU/Linux. No files are copied to or changed on the hard disk, so rebooting without the CD brings up Windows as usual.A typical live CD loads not only a complete operating system into Ram, but office suites, browsers and representatives of most popular applications. The parts that won't fit are read on-the-fly from the CD, which means even hardware with relatively little memory can be used.To exploit this, you need some clever programming that detects and configures the system automatically. This is crucial: one of the biggest barriers to GNU/Linux adoption on the desktop has been the difficulty of installing it properly on the average PC.One of the first live CDs to manage this was Knoppix, which is so good at sniffing out strange hardware and configuring it that sceptical Windows users are regularly bowled over by the sight of their machine being turned into a powerful GNU/Linux system in minutes. And just as Knoppix takes as its foundation dozens of open source projects, so subsequent live CDs have borrowed Knoppix's code and extended it, something only possible with free software.An important group of CDs is aimed at the education sector. Live CDs such as the Unesco-supported Freeduc have a key advantage, since they are pupil proof: the operating system and applications are stored on a read-only CD, so it is impossible to erase them.Higher education is well served,   too. Live CDs replace general applications with collections of specialist software, including those for scientific computing (Quantian), astronomy (Lin4Astro) and bioinformatics (Bioknoppix). Each provides the core tools for their fields, allowing students and scientists to carry around a dedicated workstation on a CD.Live CDs aimed at business include one that is optimised to run as a server (SoL), another for creating clusters of PCs (ClusterKnoppix), an open groupware system (OGo Knoppix), and several stripped-down distributions designed to work as preconfigured firewalls. Live CDs are also invaluable for recovering data from PCs where Windows has become corrupted or compromised.One of the most interesting live CDs is not designed for computing. Movix contains a minimal GNU/ Linux distribution plus just one application - for running DVDs. This turns a PC into a DVD player, provided it has a DVD drive. A series of CDs could be created, each dedicated to a particular function.It would be simple to create a live CD that booted up just as a word processor. For those who have resisted computers, a low-cost, minimalist PC plus a set of live CDs offering single applications might be perfect. There would be no installed operating system, and so no need for a hard disk: the data would be stored on a removable USB Flash drive.It is a twist on an older, highly successful idea: that of the Amstrad PCW word processor, a dedicated system enormously popular among non-technical users. Interestingly, Amstrad's latest launch, the E3 videophone, has at its heart GNU/Linux.How to go liveA list of the main live CDs, with links to their home pages, can be found atwww.frozentech.com/content/livecd.php. They are free, but take several hours to download, even with broadband. Once somebody has downloaded a live CD, any number of copies can be made, so all you need is a willing colleague with a fast connection.You may find - as with Knoppix - there are several versions: generally it's best to pick the most recent (3.6 for Knoppix, though earlier ones may work better on some hardware. Make sure you choose the English edition, signalled by 'EN' in the filename: for example, KNOPPIX_V3.6-2004-08-16-EN.iso).A downloaded file will be in the form of a CD image, with the extension .iso. To turn it into a physical disc, find the option in your CD-creation software that burns directly from an image file (it varies from program to program). Do not simply put a copy of the file on to a blank CD.You may need to modify the sequence in which your PC searches drives for an operating system: it must try the CD-Rom before the main hard disk, otherwise Windows will load.To do this, enter the computer's set-up menus: a message about which key to press to access them will appear at the beginning of the PC's startup sequence (often it is the Delete key). Go through the menus until you find a reference to the boot/startup sequence or boot device. Highlight that option by using the Up or Down arrow keys, then change the value by pressing the Page Up and Page Down keys so the CD-Rom is accessed before any hard disk drive. Save the changes as you exit the setup menus and then reboot with the live CD inserted.If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
"The French Competition Council has dismissed a case brought by Virgin's French arm against Apple Computer for alleged abuse of market dominance. French download site VirginMega wanted to force Cupertino, Calif.-based Apple to lift the lid on its digital rights management (DRM) technology in order to allow Virgin to make its downloads compatible with the iPod music player," repoortsCNet."The council, however, noted that lack of interoperability between different download sites and music players is 'a disadvantage for consumers' but added that "situations like this recur in sectors linked to information technology" and aren't necessarily affected by competition law."Comment:No informed person expected any other result, but Virgin's case always looked like a PR exercise rather than a serious legal challenge. And from a PR point of view, Apple is coming under increasing pressure. The latest Business Week, for example, normally an Apple-friendly publication, has acolumnthat describes Apple as "isolationist" and touts the"Plays For Sure"alternative."Microsoft holds the high cards in this game. Much as I hate to see the colossus of Redmond end up dominating yet another market, I believe that is going to happen, and given the current state of affairs, it may be the best outcome for consumers," writes Stephen H Wildstrom.
The third generation of mobile phones - yes, the ones that UK operators paid &#163;22bn to get the licences for - haven't exactly been a resounding success yet. Except, that is, among deaf people in Sweden, where being able to use two-way video means they can converse using sign language or even lip reading. According to the journal Mobile, 60% of Sweden's hearing-impaired population signed up within three months of a promotion being launched by 3.Just as happened with text messaging, no one making the phones had any inkling of this use, obvious though it seems in retrospect. People are already thinking of other uses for video phones such as enabling car breakdown staff to look under the bonnet to see what   part you need before embarking on a fruitless journey - and doctors could do preliminary diagnosis of, say, body sores while you are still at home.So far, 3G phones have been purchased in the UK because the main seller, 3, offers low tariffs for making voice calls. However, once they build up a base and users suddenly discover their friends have one, too, then the prospects could change. It's the network, stupid.This week sees a big escalation of marketing effort as Vodafone, the world's biggest operator, unveils its 3G range, and 3 launches new, slimmer phones as well. Orange will follow. While these phones - or at least those I have had a chance to play with - are a huge improvement on the clunky models of a year ago, the real challenge will come in a year or two when   they shrink even further to the weight of today's 2.5G phones - and the user base widens.Two factors will be very important. The first is getting to grips with the enormous potential power of these phones. At a recent discussion, hosted by Toshiba, on the implications of converging technologies in the living room, hardly anyone mentioned mobile phones. Yet almost anything that can be done by a computer, a television or a media centre can be done on a mobile phone, and especially a 3G one. You may not want to watch television, read spreadsheets, do a PowerPoint presentation or listen to music on your phone - but the point is you will be able to.The second factor is that unlike most "top-down" technological revolutions, such as computers   and television, when only the rich have access in the opening period (and in the case of computers they still do), the next stage of the phone revolution will be bottom up.It starts from a situation in which virtually everyone in the industrial world who wants a mobile phone has one and they will be able to upgrade to better models fairly cheaply, especially if 3G operators adopt a policy of renting hardware cheaply but charging through the nose for data (as in &#163;2.50 for a video music download).The opportunities for creating interactive games, films, newspapers, location-based services and goodness knows what else are awesome. And, for the first time, you can deliver services directly to anyone on the industrialised planet. We haven't even started yet.If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Novell's officeNovell has combined the products it gained with the acquisitions of SuSE Linux and Ximian to provide an office productivity suite. Rather than battling head to head with Microsoft Windows and Office, Novell is positioning its Linux Desktop 9 as a suitable alternative for call centre operators and service counter personnel, for use in information kiosks, and as a platform for occasional PC users. It also sees the suite as a low-cost alternative for technical workstations running Unix. The package includes the SuSE Linux operating system, a customised version of the OpenOffice.org productivity suite, Ximian Evolution email and scheduling software, the Firefox web browser, and optional Gnome or KDE graphical user interfaces. Novell will charge $50 (&#163;27) per user, which includes one year of updates.&#183;&lt;A HREF="http://www.novell.com/products/desktop/""&gt;www.novell.com/products/desktop/Small accountMicrosoft is beefing up its Office productivity suite to compete with financial software from Sage and Intuit. The latest test version of the small business version, to be called Microsoft Office for Small Business Management, adds Small Business Accounting to the standard Office applications. This is a new application for handling payrolls, accounts and bookkeeping, and it builds on the enhanced Outlook contact manager that differentiated Microsoft Office 2003 Small Business Edition from the general-purpose versions. The accounting module will be integrated with the suite so that invoices can be generated from Outlook's contact manager and automatically added to the accounts receivable ledger.&#183;http://masl.to/?T2E323DB9IBM topsIBM's BlueGene/L has topped the latest edition of the twice-yearly list of the world's top 500 supercomputers. NEC's Earth Simulator, which headed the five previous lists, was also overtaken by Nasa Ames's Columbia supercomputer, built by SGI using Intel Itanium 2 processors. The list is good news for IBM, the world's largest computer company, which sold 43% of the top systems delivering 49% of the total performance. It is also good news for Intel, with Intel chips used in 320 of the top 500 systems, compared with 189 last year and 19 in 2001. Intel's Itanium 2 processor is used in 83 systems, which puts it ahead of IBM's Power processor (54 systems) and HP's PA Risc (48).&#183;www.top500.orgOpen accountsAn upgrade that went wrong is being blamed for a security problem at Cahoot, the Abbey's internet banking division. Following software changes to the service on November 4, Cahoot users were able to view other customer accounts without entering a password. The bank is playing down the security flaw by pointing out that any prying customer would have to know another user's ID to log on, and the lack of a password would mean that no funds could be misappropriated. The service was closed for 10 hours while the situation was inspected and remedied.&#183;www.cahoot.comQuality RightNowRightNow Technologies claims that 26 central and local government bodies have adopted its online Customer Relationship Management (CRM) software to improve the quality of their customer service. The company attributes its successes to the fact that users can test-drive the software for 30 days. Also, services can be brought online quickly because there is no need to set up servers and applications - a key attraction for local authorities trying to meet national government deadlines. Recent adopters include the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, plus local authorities in Liverpool and Rotherham.&#183;www.rightnow.comSecuring softwareThe US National Security Agency is considering setting up a centre to tackle security vulnerabilities in commercial software. Pending government approval, the agency will team up with several other security bodies to research tools and techniques for writing secure applications and for detecting malicious code hidden in software packages. In a keynote delivered at the Microsoft Security Summit East in Washington, Daniel Wolf, NSA's director for information assurance, said that the quality and trustworthiness of commercial software is a matter of increasing concern to the NSA, which is charged with US Defense Department security. The move to outsourcing software development projects overseas is worrying the organisation because of the possibility of covertly embedding spyware in new software.If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Halo 2Xbox&#163;39.99 Bungie/Microsoft&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;The original Halo was a massive success on Xbox, helping launch the system. It was also highly overrated: a highly competent first person shooter that was let down by repetition and poor pacing. However, the sequel now rights these wrongs to produce an absorbing experience.Halo 2 is, literally, a blast. It never lets up; chances are you will be red-eyed and shaking after a serious session. The action is relentless and gripping, with enemies, especially on the higher difficulty levels, displaying tenacious skills. Luckily, players can wield two guns at once, while new weaponry is widely available.As in the original, though, Halo 2 is not always about going in all-guns blazing. Tactical use of cover and ammunition is essential. While the intensive, full-on combat experience is not a surprise, the deep and twisty plot is. Far more than just an excuse for a breather, the cut-scenes and storyline are valid in their own right. Combined with the excellent audio, the plot brings a real sense of gravitas and meaning to the slaughter.But the single player mode is only half the story. Online play is integral to the Halo 2 experience, with a wealth of Xbox Live options. An inability to play with a friend online, rather than against them, is the only disappointment. The relentless blasting occasionally leaves you wanting   something different.But this is all about the purity of combat and, with the new vehicles, weapons and plot twists, Halo 2 lives up to the hype.Greg HowsonFootball Manager 2005PC, Macintosh&#163;29.99 Sports Interactive/Sega&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;For gamers, the football season in recent years has started when Eidos released its yearly version of the all-conquering Championship Manager (CM). But things have changed this year: Eidos parted company with Championship Manager developer Sports Interactive, and the new developer, Beautiful Game Studios, which has a decent pedigree, has been unable to get the next version of CM ready in time for Christmas.But that really does not matter, because Sega snapped up Sports Interactive and resurrected the old Football Manager franchise.The result is as stunning as one would expect from Sports Interactive, which retained the rights   to use Championship Manager's biggest strength: its database.Happily, it also took the opportunity to smarten up the interface, which was not the strongest point of CM games of yore. It is still menu-based but friendlier, thanks to canny tweaks such as the web browser-style forward and back buttons. It has not been so savagely altered that CM fans will find it disorientating.The fine control over tactics, substitutions, training and transfers is just as detailed, and this time, you can play mind games with rival managers by picking stock phrases from lists, as well as motivate your players by praising or criticising them.The incredible detail in the database throws up unexpected but fascinating situations during a season, making Football Manager 2005 almost painfully addictive. As a Tottenham Hotspur fan, I have already proved that I can do a better job of managing the club than the now-departed Jacques Santini, and have the added joy of bossing around and giving a humiliating nickname to new boss Martin Jol.And therein lies the irresistible allure of Football Manager 2005 - it provides an accurate simulation of the joys and heartache of football management. If you love CM, you will find Football Manager 2005 at least as satisfying, if not more so.Steve Boxer&#183;Keep up with the latest from the gaming world with our Gamesblog atblogs.guardian.co.uk/gamesSix of the bestFootball Manager 2005http://masl.to/?T12025DB9GTA: San Andreaswww.rockstargames.com/sanandreas/Half-Life 2www.planethalflife.com/half-life2/Halo 2www.bungie.net/Games/Halo2/Pro Evolution Soccer 4www.pesinsight.comThe Sims 2http://thesims2.ea.comTop 5 games for GameCube1Donkey Konga2Fifa 20053Sonic Adventure 2: Battle4Sonic Heroes5Sonic Mega Collection&#183;Source: Elspa, compiled by ChartTrackIf you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
I admit I goofed by not puttingSorry Everybodyin this week'sWeb Watch: it looks as though the site has really taken off. In the new implementation, Americans can upload their picture apologies directly, rather then sending them by e-mail. All it needs now is a "best of" gallery.[Update]: And I guess I should also apologise for not including theWe're Not Sorrysite as well...
After more than two decades of service, it appears the writing is on the wall for the VHS VCR. Yet, as many Britons look to upgrade to a digital video recorder this Christmas, they face a bewildering array of options. Here is a guide to what is available.DVD recordersThese have yet to establish themselves, possibly because there are three recordable formats: DVD-RAM (Panasonic, JVC), DVD+RW (Philips) and DVD-RW (Pioneer). Some discs are also not compatible with other recorders/players. Despite this, recordings are of excellent quality, and recorders and discs are competitively priced. The bottom line: the LG DR-4810 and Philips DVDR610 sell for around &#163;200.DVD/hard disk recordersThe best of both worlds: users record programmes on to the hard disk and then port them on to DVD for permanent storage. The digital recordings are excellent quality and there is a pause live TV option. But they are comparatively expensive and most use the basic VideoPlus+ system for timed recordings. The bottom line: Lite-On's &#163;350 LVW-5045 pairs a 160GB hard disk with a DVD recorder.Sky+The most popular hard disk-based video recorder in the UK, Sky+ boxes combine a satellite TV decoder with a 40 or 160GB hard drive. The on-screen programme guide delivers two weeks' listings at a time, and viewers can pause and rewind live TV. But there is a &#163;41 monthly Sky subscription. The bottom line: the 40GB box (20 hours of viewing) costs &#163;99, while the 160GB (80 hours) box costs &#163;399.Freeview digital recordersThese boxes team a Freeview digital terrestrial decoder with a hard disk recorder. They work in a similar way to the Sky+ box, but offer fewer channels. All recorders have an on-screen electronic programme guide (EPG) with a week's worth of listings. The recordings are good quality and there is no monthly fee - but Freeview is not available across the UK. The bottom line: Fusion's FVRT100 has a 40GB hard disk and its own week-at-a-glance EPG, yet retails for under &#163;200.Microsoft Media Center PCsThese are living-room friendly PCs that offer a huge range of home entertainment features. Owners can record hours of video on to the hard disk via an easy-to-use EPG and then transfer the footage on to a recordable DVD disc for permanent storage. The recorders are very flexible but most only have analogue TV tuners and are more expensive than rival solutions. The bottom line: Advent's MC3030 costs less than &#163;500.If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Google "is adding POP, or point of presence, access to Gmail for all users over the next couple of weeks. The move will enable Gmail users to download a copy of their messages through other e-mail programs and devices that support POP," reportsThe Washington Post.Comment:More accurately, Google is adding POP3 (Post Office Protocol) e-mail. PoP for "Point of Presence" is a term you don't see much nowadays, but some of us remember when the UK only had a couple of points where you could connect to the Internet, and it was newsworthy when an Internet connection point was opened in a previously unserved city such as Manchester or Birmingham.
Will this week go down in history as the start of open source's conquest of the Windows desktop? On Tuesday, version 1.0 of the free Firefox browser was launched - a program many see as the breakthrough in the battle to win over Windows users to open source software - community-created programs that are openly available for development. Firefox is also available for Apple's Mac OS X and the GNU/Linux platform.Despite the 1.0 tag, Firefox is not new: it has a long and complicated history going back to the first mass-market browser, Netscape Navigator, via the earlier open source Mozilla. Firefox is Mozilla reborn (it was originally called Phoenix), and is aimed squarely at the non-technical user. It is sleek, weighing in at less than five megabytes; it is easy to install, pulling in your Internet Explorer home page and favourites automatically; it is packed with powerful features - a popup blocker, and tabbed browsing that lets you open several web pages within the same window; and, perhaps most importantly, it is secure - immune to the worst of the bugs, viruses and spyware that afflict users of Microsoft's Internet Explorer.Firefox is therefore generating the excitement that Netscape Navigator did a decade ago. Even before Firefox's official launch, some 8m people had downloaded the test version. The Firefox developers are hoping to win 10% of the browser market within a year. Although ambitious, this is not impossible: many websites are already seeing large numbers of visitors using Firefox.Even so, Firefox might not seem   much of a problem for Microsoft. Internet Explorer brings in no revenue, so there is none to lose if its market share dips - as it has started to. But Firefox is dangerous because it represents more than just another rival to Microsoft's browser: it is also a showcase of how good free software can be.Once Windows users have experienced the speed, power and security of Firefox, they might be tempted to try its sibling, Thunderbird - a free email program from the Mozilla team that can replace Microsoft's Outlook Express. Its development is behind Firefox, but it is stable enough for everyday use.It also offers features not found in Microsoft's equivalent product, the most important of which is the intelligent spam filter. After training Thunderbird for a few days by marking which messages are spam, your inbox becomes almost clear of junk email, while the incidence of false positives - flagging up legitimate email as spam - is very low.Firefox and Thunderbird are not a threat on their own to Microsoft's desktop dominion. But dozens of free Windows programs stand comparison with proprietary equivalents. Chief among them is OpenOffice.org, the free office suite which was recently proclaimed as "the best all-round office suite" and "the king of the business tools" by PC Pro magazine. Version 2.0, due next year, promises to be even better.The significance of these developments becomes clear from research published in August by the British Computer Society. Among those Britons who had used a computer, the top three applications were the web browser (73%), email (68%) and word processing (68%), well   ahead of other categories. This means that the open source trinity of Firefox, Thunderbird and OpenOffice.org now meets the principal needs of general users, whether they run on a Windows PC, Macintosh or GNU/Linux. In fact, moving to the free operating system becomes much easier when the main applications are identical on all platforms - yet another reason for Microsoft to fear Firefox and its friends.Official confirmation that the open source desktop has arrived in Britain comes from the UK Treasury's Office of Government Commerce, which recently concluded that "open source software is a viable and credible alternative to proprietary software ... for meeting the requirements of the majority of desktop users". Some have already taken the plunge, including the municipality of Vienna and Singapore's Ministry of Defence.Perhaps the surest sign that the open source desktop is a serious option comes with Microsoft's increasingly vigorous response to it. Last year, Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, tried to convince the authorities in Munich not to switch 14,000 desktop machines to Linux. His failure led to a redoubling of efforts, which are beginning to bear fruit.Last month, the City of Paris decided not to follow Munich's example with its 17,000 Windows desktops, but said it will adopt a more gradual, heterogeneous approach. Overtaking technical considerations was what the city called "an economic dimension", including a massive discount - thought to be more than 50% - offered by Microsoft to keep the contract.Generous price cuts also seemed to have played their part in Microsoft's high-profile victory over open source at the London borough of Newham, as they did in multimillion pound deal announced last week with the NHS. There, the vague threat of a defection to an open source desktop   was one reason the NHS managed to obtain what it called "extremely favourable terms" from Microsoft.Such victories might prove pyrrhic. If Microsoft is forced to give huge discounts to many of its big customers, profits will tumble. The share price will fall, undermining morale among employees - who are strongly motivated by the value of the options they hold - and threatening the company's dominance. Microsoft desperately needs to justify its pricing in the face of the free software alternative.Just how it is going about this can be seen from an "executive email" sent by Ballmer last month to one of Microsoft's public mailing lists. In it, he landed what looked like knock-out punches against GNU/Linux, using data and research from third parties.He noted that "according to statistics posted on the security website Secunia, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 3 has averaged 7.4 security advisories per month, com pared with 1.7 advisories for Windows Server 2003." This is true, but as Secunia itself emphasises: "Certain operating systems &#91;like Red Hat's&#93; bundle a very large number of software packages and is &#91;sic&#93; therefore affected by many vulnerabilities that would be counted as a vulnerability in stand-alone products for other operating systems/platforms."Much of Ballmer's email focused on TCO - total cost of ownership. He cited results from several studies to demonstrate that switching to free software is actually more expensive than sticking with Windows.However, one study quoted several times by Ballmer said things he failed to mention: "In summary, the Yankee Group's TCO survey found that Linux does offer compelling cost savings, economies of scale and technical advantages, as many a satisfied user will attest. However, the cost savings and benefits are not automatic; they are not achieved without customers' due diligence and they do not necessarily apply in every user scenario." At the heart of Microsoft's anti-open source strategy, then, lies the presentation of carefully selected information in the best possible light - in other words, marketing.This is a shrewd move, because however good free software has been, its marketing has been non-existent. Coders seem to believe well-written programs will percolate into the community of their own accord - and against the Microsoft juggernaut, this naive approach stands no chance.But with Firefox, something extraordinary has happened. When the first preview release appeared in September, a website called Spread Firefox.com was created. It was not the typical free software site where hackers share news, bug-fixes and incomprehensible humour, but one dedicated to a strange idea: marketing Firefox.The first moves were modest, and involved signing up volunteers to spread the word; 30,000 registered in the first few months. Its latest scheme is bolder. Fans were asked to stump up $30 each ($10 for students) to help buy a full-page advertisement in the New York Times. The organisers hoped to receive money from around 2,500 people, with the aim of printing their names in small print alongside the main message about the release. Instead they saw 10,000 donations - $250,000 - in 10 days.When the ad is published in the next few weeks, it will mark the beginning of a fresh chapter in open source. The appearance of those 10,000 names is both a media event, comparable with Apple's famous 1984 commercial for the Macintosh, and an important statement.It says that Firefox 1.0 is here, with the corollary that the open source desktop is not far behind. More significantly, it says that free software is moving beyond the hard core of coders towards embracing ordinary users as key players in its wider diffusion. They are a new kind of marketing force - distributed, global and scalable - ready to ensure that everyone can get the facts from an alternative viewpoint to that offered by Microsoft. Open source for the rest of us, by the rest of us.Opening salvos&#183;Firefoxwww.spreadfirefox.com&#183;Openoffice.orgwww.openoffice.org&#183;Mozilla Foundationwww.mozilla.orgIf you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
A new battle in the multibillion pound internet search market began today as Microsoft made public its attempt to take on number one search engine Google.A trial version of the new software went live early this morning and is seen as crucial for Microsoft in its attempts to cash in on the increasingly lucrative search market and position itself for future growth.Until now, Microsoft has relied on technology supplied by Inktomi to power the search engines on its global MSN network of websites, which claim 350 million users worldwide.But last year Inktomi was bought by rival Yahoo!, which also now owns Overture - the company that supplies MSN's sponsored search listings.Microsoft's founder, Bill Gates, vowed two years ago to pour hundreds of millions of dollars into developing its own search technology to match its rivals. Once the site officially launches next year, it is likely that Microsoft will ditch both Inktomi and Overture.The company has been enviously eyeing Google's pre-eminent position in the search market and is keen to ensure that the recently floated upstart does not extend its lead in search onto the computer desktop.It also hopes to tap into the exponential growth in paid-for search advertising, where companies pay to have links to their sites listed alongside existing results.The medium has exploded in the past year, with internet search advertising in the UK alone now worth more than cinema advertising.MSN Search will be available in trial mode from today while the company seeks feedback from users on its performance.It will search more than five billion web pages and documents using in-house technology developed over the past two years. Google announced yesterday that it had doubled its index to more than eight billion web pages.MSN said that its search would also answer natural language questions, such as "How many inches in a mile" using its bestselling Encarta online encyclopaedia. It will also link directly through to MSN's new music download service. And as with Google, users can also search for news and images."The release of our beta is a huge step towards delivering the information consumers are looking for, faster," said Yusef Mehdi, Microsoft vice president for MSN information services and merchant platform."With better results and more powerful search tools, MSN is creating a new, higher standard for online search - one that ensures consumers find the information they need, when they need it," he added.The resurgence of search has been driven by the growing realisation over the past two years that it will continue to drive the way people use the web.In the early days of the dotcom boom, it was assumed that search engines would become less popular as people settled on their favourite sites and portals and navigated between them. As such, companies such as then market leader Alta-Vista made the disastrous decision to diversify into other areas.The subsequent success of Google, which has seen shares surge more than 90% since its $1.7bn flotation in August, has proved that prognosis spectacularly wrong. Indeed, most now believe that search will extend from the internet to the desktop, with users searching for files on their computer and on the internet.Google has already launched a trial version of its own desktop search product, which further blurs the lines between the PC and the internet while new companies such as Binkx are springing up with their own innovative search products.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
