If you were a multi-millionaire, you could afford a home entertainment network that delivered whatever you wanted - movies, music, the internet - to any of the rooms in your palatial pad. Just like Bill Gates.But don't get jealous. Later this year, one of the multimillionaires who used to work for Bill plans to deliver a system that anyone with a broadband cable or satellite connection can afford. And by then, rival companies, such as Sony and Microsoft, may have competing products. So will the UK's leading television set-top box supplier, Pace.The latest round in the home entertainment wars was kicked off by Steve Perlman's start-up company, Moxi Digital. At the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in    Las Vegas earlier this month, Moxi unveiled the Media Centre (MC): "a combination digital set-top box, video and music jukebox, media server, and internet gateway and firewall", says the company. It will play your DVD movies, CDs and MP3 music files. It will record broadcast TV, just like a TiVo personal video recorder (PVR).And licenses permitting, it will stream multimedia to any personal computer or TV set in your home. It is, according to Forrester Research's principal media and entertainment analyst Josh Bernoff, "the first true entertainment gateway".Perlman has been working towards this for some time. A veteran of Apple and Magic Cap, he became famous for starting WebTV, a company Microsoft bought for $425m. While the idea for    the Moxi came from Perlman's struggle to put together a $1m entertainment network in his Lake Tahoe home, it is mainly a more advanced version of this set-top box, which made the internet easy to access via a TV set.His backers now include AOL Time Warner and Microsoft's other co-founder, Paul Allen. Which is not to say that Moxi will have the market to itself. In 1999, Sony's chief executive Nobuyuki Idei made a global splash by announcing the intention to develop a home entertainment network.In this vision, Sony's internet-connected PlayStation 2 would be the hub that linked Sony digital cameras, Sony TV sets, Sony DVD players, Sony MiniDisc players, and numerous Sony handheld devices including mobile phones, all delivering Sony Music, Sony Pictures and Sony Games to the Sonyfied masses.So far there has been little progress, but this year, British PS2 owners are likely to be offered an accessory hard drive and broadband internet connection that slots into the spare drive bay in their machines. Systems are already on sale in Japan, and BT and Telewest are testing them in the UK.However, it is still much less advanced than Sony's high-priced Vaio MX home entertainment PC.  Coincidentally, no doubt, news of Microsoft's Moxi-style home gateway emerged just after Perlman's MC launch. Last week, Prudential Securities analyst Hans Mosesmann published a report saying that Microsoft's HomeStation was real, not just a rumour, while Richard Doherty, director of research at The Envisioneering Group in New York, said Microsoft was supposed to launch it at CES, and it could be on the market this autumn. (Microsoft says it won't be: "The rumour is totally untrue," said a spokesman.)Instead, Microsoft's Bill Gates demonstrated two new technologies at CES: Mira and Freestyle. Freestyle is a different user interface for Windows XP, which is aimed at the 10-foot experience rather than the three-foot experience. In other words, it lets you operate a PC from a couch or elsewhere via a remote control.Add a TV tuner, and Freestyle also lets you use a PC as a PVR, recording live TV on a hard drive for later replay. Mira - based like PocketPC handhelds on Windows CE - provides the companion software for handheld controllers or    "smart displays" (remote monitors).Microsoft's Steve Guggenheimer says: "With Mira, users will be able to undock their monitors and carry them anywhere around the house, accessing their content anywhere they go, or access the same content from new flat screen TVs."Freestyle and Mira have an obvious appeal to people who use their PC to play DVDs or watch TV - American college students, for example, and home users with a PC in a study or den. But this doesn't mean a PC has to replace the family TV set. As Doherty points out, "the fact that Microsoft's e-home strategy includes the PC doesn't mean the PC has to be in the living room."With wireless networking, it could be anywhere. So, should the home gateway be based on the PC or the TV? There has evidently been a battle about this issue between Microsoft's PC-centric eHome division in Seattle and its UltimateTV division - formerly WebTV - in Silicon Valley. It seems it was finally resolved this week with plans to close the UltimateTV operation, according to the Seattle bureau of the San Jose Mercury News.The service, with about a million subscribers, will continue, but will come under the control of MSN TV. The hardware group will become part of the Xbox team. Moxi should be pleased, since it implies that if there is a HomeStation, it will be based on the Xbox rather    than Ultimate TV. Despite Microsoft's denials, the move makes it even harder to believe there aren't at least prototype Xbox-style HomeStations like the one featured last year by PC Format magazine.The Xbox uses PC technologies - the kernel from the Windows NT/2000/ XP operating system, an Intel processor, nVidia graphics chips, memory, hard drive and (to be announced) a broadband internet connection - but is not a PC. It plays games and DVDs, and could easily be fitted with a TV tuner and PVR software. But it won't be. Unlike Sony, Microsoft does not have a Trojan horse strategy. As the Xbox's general manager J Allard told me when unveiling the machine:"We are not confused: this is a single-function device entirely focused on the games market. We have to focus on creating great games."Doherty says that if you compared a HomeStation with an Xbox, "97% of the DNA would be the same", but you would still need both products."Ideally, in a    Microsoft e-home, they'd like you to have five or six!"That is one reason why the idea is so seductive to manufacturers. Computers have multiple functions - playing games, writing email, doing accounts and so on - and this makes them more complicated than single-function devices such as PVRs, dedicated word processors and games consoles. It may be more profitable to sell people several dedicated devices, especially if you can piggyback on the PC industry by using the same high volume/ low-cost components.Of course, the idea of re-using computer technology is much older than the Xbox, even in the home entertainment market. One of the first home gateways was an experimental Warner Brothers cable system in Columbus, Ohio, which used Atari 800 home computers as terminals.The late Commodore Business machines tried re-using Amiga technology in its CDTV player, Apple tried a Macintosh-based system called Pippin, and at the height of the network computer (NC) hype, NChannel launched a set-top box based on Acorn technology. However, all of them flopped.None the less, Bernoff reckons home entertainment gateways will be successful in the US, reaching 14.7m homes by 2006. "Incumbent set-top box makers will suffer as the market shifts from basic digital boxes to entertainment gate  ways," he says. First, he thinks users will get to like the idea that they can have their entertainment anywhere in the house.Second, the Moxi system works out cheaper in homes with several TVs, PCs and other devices. If you want TiVo functionality on a second TV, you have to buy another TiVo. With Moxi, you just add a cheap expander to link it to your home network. These could cost from about $40 to $100, depending on whether they are wired or wireless. As an incumbent set-top box supplier, Pace Micro Technology is after the same market as Moxi, but approaching it in an incremental fashion. Rather than promising a new blockbuster product, it is adding functions to an already successful line."We are coming from devices that &#91;cable and satellite TV&#93; operators will buy in their millions, and the Moxi is a bit more complicated than the ones we see operators being ready to buy in millions," says marketing director Andrew Wallace."The most gateway-ish product we do at the moment is the Di4000, the standard UK set-top box, which is installed by both Telewest and NTL," adds Wallace."It doesn't have PVR, but our Sky+ box does, and we are developing a Di4500 that does have PVR. In fact, we'll be launching a PVR that isn't linked to an operator - a retail device - later this year."Pace is also working on    wireless connections for its home gateway. "Once you have a wireless data connection, there are stacks of things you can do," says Wallace, "such as deliver streaming media to a &#91;Compaq&#93; iPaq."The company plans to offer a "gateway expander" that will plug into the back of a cable box. It will offer digital enhanced cordless telecommunications (DECT) networking to cater for the millions of wireless handsets used in Europe, as well as the Wi-Fi (802.11) wireless networking used by Moxi and home PC networks. Operators can use either: "To be honest, we don't mind."By the end of the year, when Moxi's Linux-based MC is expected to ship, Pace should have comparable technology. The question is, who is going to pay for it? This is where Pace may have the edge.  Moxi is not planning to manufacture systems or sell MCs to consumers. It has signed a deal with EchoStar in the US, which will deliver the boxes to its subscribers. Pace can do both. The US market is mainly operator driven, which means users will get the gateway at a low price while paying a monthly subscription to use it. But "Europe is more of a retail market", says Wallace, which means consumers can buy boxes outright and use them with whichever free-to-air TV channels and ISP (internet service provider) they like.  Microsoft could go either way, or both.Its preferred strategy is to create a software package for a wide range of hardware manufacturers and let them fight it out in the marketplace.  This drives down hardware prices, benefiting consumers, without driving down software prices, benefiting Microsoft. It has used this approach with DOS, MSX (a 1980s home computer system), Windows, Windows CE, Pocket PC, WBTs (Windows-based terminals) and PC Companions; it is doing the same thing now with Ultimate TV (developed from WebTV) and Tablet PC software.If it doesn't get any takers it may go it alone using a contract manufacturer - as it did with the Xbox - but this is a last ditch option. Whether or not there is a HomeStation, the Xbox makes one thing clear: Microsoft is serious about the home entertainment interface, and is not going to leave it to Sony, Nokia, AOL and other pretenders. The people who criticised Microsoft for only supporting PCs are seeing their dreams coming true: Microsoft now wants to support PCs, handhelds, mobile phones, games consoles, TVs and other consumer gadgets as part of its next-generation .Net strategy.  The irony is that, having got their wish, they are more likely to see it as a nightmare.
High priceVictor Keegan (Second Sight, January 10) fails to mention one other factor that makes data longevity a problem. Namely, the deliberate scrambling of information by both software and hardware manufacturers. For example, it's going to be much less easy to extract information from proprietary, binary-only formats such as Microsoft Word in 20 years' time than it is from open, text-based formats such as HTML.I was personally made painfully aware of this after writing my entire PhD thesis in Word version 6.0, only to discover than this format is not imported correctly by Word95/97/2000, and so I am now no longer able to reprint it as it was originally published. In the case of deliberate hardware incompatibilities, look no further than the DVD format. The introduction of the region-dependent Content Scrambling System (CSS) and similar "copy protection" techniques means that future generations are going to be much less likely to access information that we store nowadays.If current trends continue, it is likely that the agendas of software companies and Hollywood "content owners" will eclipse public demand for open data formats that we will still be able to access when the current crop of PCs have long since become landfill. As consumers we should    be opposing both attempts to lock us in to proprietary software formats, and attempts to lock us out of data-storage media.Tristan Roddistristan@roddis.orgNon-identityLucy Kimbell (Feedback, January 17) wrote that mobiles are intimate objects and part of our identity, in physical, emotional and psychic terms. No Lucy, they're not. They're telephones. Or, as Jimmy Royle would undoubtedly put it: "Intimate object, my arse."Allen IvesIvesallen@aol.comRisk vs costIt is good news that corporates are starting to take on open source software. But is it a question of risk vs cost that determines its uptake (Free software survives downturn, January 10)? Open source technology is cheaper than traditional software (or even free), but this should not be the deciding factor for companies planning to use it. Open source brings numerous benefits: it is widely available and, more importantly, platform-independent. However, in the event of a glitch, the company must resort to a virtual team of perhaps unreliable troubleshooters. Low cost, high risk. Companies need to determine the training and support needed if platform-independent technologies are    implemented. This may mean additional costs, but will be money well spent if it makes implementation and integration a long-term success. Slightly higher cost, but lower risk. When considering usual business drivers - total cost of ownership, time-to-market, risk, security and performance - selecting free software is not always an obvious choice. However, open source gives businesses the vital option to pick and choose the software that best suits their needs.Chris PurringtonManaging director, UK Borland,cpurrington@borland.comYahoo where?Is Yahoo the world's first virtual company? It certainly appears not to employ any actual staff!  As anyone who has ever written to Yahoo with a problem will doubtless confirm, you rapidly receive a computer-generated reply. If you write back and say this response does not answer the query, you receive another computer-generated reply, and another... It seems impossible to get a response that addresses your problem. Have any readers been able to make contact with a live human being at Yahoo? If so, please tell me how you managed it!John Bournjohn@bournagain.freeserve.co.ukPenance paidI agree Ask Jack provides valuable lifelines for those trying to make sense of the dog's breakfast that is Windows. Jack Schofield should continue to provide this service as penance for the small part that his slavish promotion has played in the rise to world dominance of such dreadful software.Ian Tunnacliffeian@vela-consulting.comVideo outA few readers wrote to ask if we were sure Panasonic could fit two hours of MPeg4 video on a 64MB card, as reported in last week's What's new from the Consumer Electronics Show. That is certainly what Panasonic is claiming. See for yourself at www.panasonic.com/consumer_electronics/pressroom/cont2.asp?Filter=12&amp;cont_id=86
With the renewed focus on identity cards, identity management, security and so on, it looks as if we are in for another round of inflated claims (by vendors), unrealistic expectations (by users) and uninformed strategies (by politicians).This time it isn't 3G networks or Wap that is the technology in the spotlight, but biometrics: the technology   for identifying people through biological characteristics, such as fingerprints.Take a look at one biometric technology that has had some press recently: face recognition. This holds out the prospect of CCTV cameras at, say, airports, scanning the masses and picking out criminals and terrorists. However appealing it may sound, it isn't that practical. It may sound impressive to say that a system has a 99.9% "success" rate, but that doesn't translate into a real solution to a real problem.Suppose a face recognition biometric is 99.9% accurate (a reasonable figure in controlled circumstances where the subject is cooperating, but wildly optimistic in real situations). Does this mean it is useful? Not really, because hunting for terrorists, as in any situation where most of the target population are not the people you are looking for, will generate vastly more "false positives" than actual identifications.Suppose a million people pass through an airport (Heathrow, in fact, handles about 1.1 million passengers every week), of whom 10 are terrorists. The camera will flag up a thousand of those   people as terrorists (0.1% of a million) in addition to the 10 real terrorists, assuming that it accurately detects all of them. Thus, when the system "beeps", the chances are only one in a hundred that it is correct: an awful lot of travellers will be body searched and detained before the authorities can determine their innocence.If the security guards at an airport find their alarm is going off hundreds of times every day, almost always for innocent travellers, the airport authorities soon learn that the alarm means there is only a small chance that the person is on their wanted list. How much attention will they pay to the alarm? I would guess there are plenty of other things for them to spend their money on that will give better odds. As with CCTV in town centres, the cameras might make us feel safer, but they wouldn't necessarily make us safer.In the US, voices as diverse as the American Civil Liberties Union and the Republican House majority leader, Dick Amery, have said that the technology provides little payoff in apprehending criminals.In fact, the idea of biomet rics as a replacement for passports and identity cards is plain scary. It might seem attractive to securely log on to your PC using just your fingerprint, but if your fingerprint template is copied by some miscreant- and let's face it, PCs and USB fingerprint readers are hardly the most secure environments in the world - then your entire identity has been stolen. If the Russian mafia then log in to your bank account to launder money, no jury in the world will believe you when you say you didn't do it.Biometrics is most useful in the foreseeable future for linking things (eg, passports and credit cards) to their rightful owner, not as a substitute for those things. It is not that difficult to put a biometric template inside the tamper-resistant chip on a smart card (because the amount of memory needed to   store the templates is very small) or inside a mobile phone so the device can determine whether its owner is present.In this fashion, the mobile phone can then tell the network: "Yes, the right person is using me," without the network having to store a database of customers' fingerprints or checking a fingerprint that has been transmitted over the air against some other (police) database.I would have no objection to using my fingerprint instead of my PIN in a shop when I am buying something with one of the new smart credit cards that banks will be issuing in the near future.Similarly, I would be happy to insert my smart passport into a slot at the airport and then put my hand on a scanner (that can tell the difference between live hands and dead ones!) so that the passport could attest to the immigration authorities that I am its owner. It could, in fact, be quite convenient.But there's a world of difference between that and not having a passport at all.
WAV itIs it possible to convert an MP3 file to a .WAV file in order to create a background sound for a web page.StevenNiven@btopenworld.comJack Schofield replies:I think most MP3 programs will do this, including Winamp (seewww.mp3towav.com). Take your pick from the tools atGoogleor downloadGoldwave.Mail outI read your Mail Move piece (Online, January 17), tried it, and now I can't find how to read the emails I transferred. They are no longer in Outlook Express under Inbox etc, but are in .dbx files.PaulKashdan@ntlworld.comJS:David Wood had asked how to get Outlook Express 5 to put messages in a folder of his choice to make them easy to back up. The secret is to let Outlook Express move them, not to move them manually. You would think that if OE moved them, it would know where to find them.However, in at least two cases, it "lost" the mail. To get your mail back, restart your PC, find the *.dbx files that hold your mail and newsgroup messages, and make a note of the directory. Run Outlook Express 5. Go to File|Import and select Messages. Click Microsoft Outlook Express 5 and Next. Click the radio button for Import mail from OE5 store directory, and click OK. Browse to the directory where your *.dbx files are now stored and click Next.Finally, import all the mail folders listed. This routine should also work if the "lost" mail files have actually been copied from a different PC. (You must include the Folders.dbx file, and if you move them on CD, remember to uncheck the Read-only properties.)System fix:I have a 1.3GHz Dell PC with 256MB of memory running Windows Me. It performs like a dog and seems to eat memory all the time, even if I have nothing running. According to System Information there is never more than about 70MB of memory available, and if I leave it on for an hour or two, that dwindles to a few hundred KB. What's going on?CarlGardnerCarlight@btopenworld.comJS:It is usually impossible to answer this type of question. However, you can often solve the problem yourself by taking a step-by-step approach, as follows. First, run the System Information tool (at Start| Programs|Accessories| System Tools|System Information). This should say you have Total Physical Memory of 256MB and Total Virtual Memory of about 2GB. If not, contact Dell.However, don't expect to see much Available Physical Memory: Windows believes in using it all. You may have either a virus such as W32/Nimda-A, or a    buggy background program stealing your PC's resources, so tackle those next. If you do not have an up-to-date virus scanner, you can run a check online atHousecall.antivirus.comorwww.pandasoftware.com.  Go to Start|Run, type msconfig in the box and click OK. Go to the Startup tab and see what the system is loading when it starts.With Windows Me, it should include ScanRegistry, System Tray, PC Health, Task Monitor, StateMgr and SSDPSRV (this is the host for Universal Plug and Play drivers, also found in Windows XP). Examine any other ticked entries, remove those you do not need, and restart your PC. Say Yes, you are trouble-shooting. Next, press Ctrl-Alt-Del to pop up the Task Monitor to see what is running.Is there anything there you do not recognise? Do you need it? Can you close it down? Do you need to remove any programs from the Start folder at Start|Programs|StartUp? Now run the Resource Meter, found near the System Information tool.This should show at least 90% resources free, preferably more. Keep an eye on the Resource Meter while you use your PC: if problems occur, use the task monitor to try to find the rogue program or process responsible. When resources fall to 25%, restart your PC and do it all again. If you cannot find the problem, go to the PC Health utility.This is called System Restore, and is at the bottom of the System Tools section. Click Next and you will find a calendar that allows you to go back in time and restore your system to the way it was before the problem arose. You should not lose any data (which should be backed up anyway), but you will have to reinstall any programs installed after that date. The last step is to take a full back up and resort to the CD that many firms provide to reinstall Windows in a "factory fresh" condition. If that does not work, it's a hardware problem.Photo pointThanks to an article you wrote back in the spring, I joined Photopoint.com from the photo websites you surveyed. Now www.photopoint.com is inaccessible, can you suggest another similar website?Sue Atkins Lewes, SussexJS:Photopoint had problems in the summer, was bought back by its original developers, and changed to a paid-for service. What is happening now is unclear, but seewww.dpreview.comfor news. Several photo sites have closed or started charging butPhotoIslandis still free.So, of course, areYahoo PhotosandMSN Photos.Backchat&#183;Last week, Michael Wells asked for a screensaver that would run some of his pictures as a slide show, and I suggested a program to download. Ian McRobert points out, this is not necessary with Windows Me and XP, which have a built-in slideshow screen saver.&#183;Tony Meacock wanted to remove items from the right-click menu (January 10), and I suggested Microsoft's free utility, TweakUI. There are, of course, half a dozen more comprehensive tweak programs to do that and similar things, withJV16Power Tools getting a reader recommendation.
Dixons is also making a play for the Xbox games console market, offering topre-ordermachines for half the price (£10 instead of £20). Further, you can try before you buy: Dixons has flown in 20 American systems to put in selected stores (Bluewater, Lakeside, Brent Cross, Croydon's Whitgift Cente, Meadowhall, the Metro in Gateshead -- the Xbox is evidently the first console targeted at mall rats). The distribution includes four (count 'em) consoles to cover the whole of Scotland, Ireland and Wales, but you'll be OK if you live in Kingston on Thames.
The CNet series ofCEO profiles, mentionedbelow, looks increasingly like a good idea wasted. In the latest, for example, RealNetworks boss and former MicrosoftieRob Glaserisn't challenged about the fact that so many users hate the invasive way his company's products work. ("Hate hate hate hate. I think Osama Bin Laden created Real Networks to incite chaos and frustration amongst the web-users of the world. Real Networks is surely chaired by Satan,"here, is just one of the more extreme examples.) Not that it will matter in the long run. If Real fails, its obituaries will be written mostly by people who will neither know nor care whether Real screwed up. Why bother when it's so easy to blame Microsoft?
Europe's largest mobile phone retailer today paid the price for a saturated market when it warned that profits would come in at 10% less than previously forecast.Shares in Carphone Warehouse slumped 9% to a three-month low of 103p following the announcement. The profit warning came against a backdrop of plummeting demand for mobile phones in Europe, which Carphone said was down by an estimated 40%.After years of booming sales, the mobile phone industry is running up against a sated market with an estimated seven out of 10 adults already owning a handset.Carphone is banking its hopes on the appearance of more sophisticated devices. Its chief executive, Charles Dunstone, said the overall market for handsets would be tough for the next six months until the next generation of high-speed mobile phones goes on sale."Our market share will continue to grow. The market will consolidate, but we're going to have to make our own luck and grind it out in the next six months," Mr Dunstone said.Mr Dunstone added that since Christmas alone, four mobile phone retailers had gone under. While that indicates the poor state of the market, it also provides an opportunity for the company to cement its hold.In continental Europe, where the group operates in 11 countries, Mr Dunstone said Germany was the company's biggest headache, while Holland and Belgium were simply stuck in a bad patch."We've never made money in Germany, and you can ask the question of us of whether we ever will. We believe we will," Mr Dunstone said.Sales in continental Europe fell by 16%, compared to a 5% decline in Carphone's core UK market, the company reported. Total revenues fell 9% during the last three months of 2001 compared to a year ago.Mobile phone manufacturers have also been hit by falling demand, with firms laying off thousands of workers. Motorola, the second biggest mobile phone producer, today reported a sharp drop in sales.
Now you can be the first boy on your block to sign up atPlaymore.com, which today kicks off the European marketing campaign for Microsoft's Xbox games console. "Play More" is the theme of the ad blitz that will lead up to the Xbox's launch here on March 14. If you are desperate, The separateXbox UK sitehas a link to apre-orderpage so you can reserve a system from Amazon or Toys R Us. Deep pockets are not an optional extra.
AOL/Netscape has filed acivil suitagainst Microsoft following its crushing defeat in the browser wars. One of the ironies, of course, is that AOL helped Microsoft to victory by adopting Internet Explorer as its default browser. Another is that Microsoft didn't need to behave illegally to win, considering Netscape's strategy was incompetent, its behaviour was appalling, and its code was rubbish.("Until recently, Netscape was one of he most arrogant companies in Silicon Valley history, which is saying quite a lot.The consensus of almost every company that tried to deal with Netscape was that it was unsufferably unpleasant and unhelpful." High Stakes, No Prisoners by Charles Ferguson, p289.)
[viaMemepool:] Not quite as cool as the animated clock we featured last week, but just as quirky: theHumanclock.
KaZaA, the file-sharing system, has beenboughtby an Australian company and is back in operation. KaZaA works fairly well but you have to be careful about the unnecessaryscumwarethat might come along with it, such as TopText, a smart-tagging system. You may want to download a copy of LavaSoft'sAd-Awaretoo.
Mmm, haven't I readthissomewhere before?
Toshiba has launched the world'sthinnestnotebook PC.
Not everybody likes the HandspringTreo.
Online retailer Amazon.com has at long last achieved what many thought it never would: the company is - wait for it - making money.Seattle-based Amazon, which primarily sells books and music, posted its first ever quarterly net profit in the three months ending December 31, beating its own forecasts and Wall Street's expectations. Boosted by strong Christmas sales, the company earned $5m (£3.5m), or 1 cent per share, compared with a net loss of $545m for the same quarter last year.The company also recorded a pro forma net profit, which excludes certain costs such as losses from investments, of $35m, or 9 cents per share, compared with a loss of $90m, or 25 cents per share, from October to December 2000.Analysts polled by Thomson Financial/First Call had predicted a pro forma net loss of 7 cents per share.Sales for the quarter were up by 15%, with Amazon posting net sales of $1.12bn, reflecting those solid holiday sales despite what was for many US retailers a lacklustre season.The company still lost money for the fiscal year ended December 31, recording a net loss of $567.2m, but that compares favourably with a net loss of $1.41bn the previous year.
The SAS Institute has developed software that can tell when people arelyingin their e-mails, says the Financial Times. The more interesting question is whether it works on published journalism. . . .
Following the release of theiMac, Applelooks readyto revamp its professional range of desktop machines, possibly this week. The news is not surprising, given the growing megahertz gap between G4 processors and their Intel/AMD rivals (even if the 733Mhz G4s outperform 1.7Ghz Pentium 4s in Apple's tests). But, even if customers didn't pay attention to the "megahertz myth" (and they do), the newtop-end iMacstill makes thebottom-end PowerMaclook a little spare - the headline specs don't differ by very much, but the price certainly does. All this also makes sense of the comments I overheard Steve Jobs making on the MacWorld conference floor two weeks ago: he said that the Apple stand, while looking similar to the one in San Francisco, would certainly have a different mix of machines when it arrived atMacWorld Tokyoin March. I thought he meant machines other than the iMac would get more of a look-in - but maybe he was referring to new machines, instead.
There are lists of the best films and the best cricketers and the best books. There are even books of lists of lists. But the latest list to be published might prove to be one too far.A list of the world's supposed top 100 public intellectuals is provoking very uncerebral rows over the dinner tables of American academia.One reason for the debate is that at the top of the list is the former US secretary of state Henry Kissinger - prominent at the moment as the subject of a Christopher Hitchens book, The Trial of Henry Kissinger, in which he is accused of crimes against humanity.Tom Wolfe, the novelist and social commentator, features at number 15, way ahead of Jean-Paul Sartre (64), Marshal McLuhan (82), and Margare Mead (94).At number eight is Sidney Blumenthal, the White House aide during the Monica Lewinsky scandal.Antonin Scalia, the member of the US supreme court who helped to ease George Bush into office, is at number 14, three places ahead of George Bernard Shaw.Camille Paglia, the writer and controversialist, is at 66, beating out John Kenneth Galbraith (69) and Alexander Solzhenitsyn (72).Those challenging Kissinger for top place include Salman Rushdie (9), George Orwell (11), Vaclav Havel (18) and Timothy Leary (28).The feminist theorist Betty Friedan is at number 48 but Germaine Greer fails to make the cut.Richard Posner, a US federal judge, compiled the list,entitled Public Intellectuals: A Study in Decline, using the internet to count he number of media mentions of anyone who expressed themselves on matters of general public concern be ween 1995 and 2000.Mr Posner manages to enter the list at a respectable 70, six ahead of Albert Camus.
Sex, it would seem, is no longer on top - at least in online terms. Once upon a time, the web not only seethed with pornographic material, but the internet's existence positively depended on it as a major revenue source.But the figures show those days may well be a thing of the past. A survey released last week by internet monitors Jupiter MMXI shows that sex and pornography sites have dropped to 12th place in the online league - certainly not relegation material, but a long way from former glories."People have way more important things to do than look at porn sites," says Jupiter's marketing director Lucy Green. "In the early days it may have been number one - perhaps because then there was not much else to do online."Does this mean we can ditch our age-old image of the obsessive, lonesome web surfer who spends far too much time looking at things which would make many blush?Well, not exactly. While a host of other services have usurped porn in recent years, "sex" remains one of the   most searched-for terms on the internet - although lists such as Lycos' hot 50 (50.lycos.com) remove all explicit searches, leaving only wholesome family fare such as "Pokemon" and "Britney Spears".Don't let the figures fool you, though - sex sites might not get a lot of press, and no longer draw in the most users, but they certainly maintain high audience numbers.Not all of the web monitoring services agree on the status of pornography. NetValue, another online monitoring service, says around 4m Britons log on to adult sites each month. It seems they can be a sticky experience in more ways than one, with the average visitor spending around 45 minutes surfing pornography.As usage of the net grows, so the money-spinning power of sex remains undiminished. "It seems to be a stable business area," says NetValue spokesman Alki Manias. "The popularity of online pornography continues unabated."But some of the apparent popularity of explicit sites could be the result of aggressive marketing. A recent survey by Which? Computing magazine revealed that more than 40% of web   users have stumbled across pornography by accident - mainly through pop-ups and the use of familiar-sounding domain names. Cynics could also add the invasive email tactics of many pornographic sites - how many times have you discovered unwanted explicit email in your inbox?Whatever the arguments for either side, it is clear that sex sites are no longer part of the internet vanguard. And if our appetite for sex is on the wane, what exactly are people looking at on the web?Those searching for the salacious   secrets of the internet are unlikely to find that the list of top sites makes titillating reading. Our viewing habits, it seems, are conditioned by the need for function and information: portals, ISPs and search engines dominate Britain's top 10 sites.The list is overshadowed by the presence of software giants Microsoft, who rack up five of the UK's top 10 domains. These sites (the dot.com and dot.co.uk versions of the MSN site as well as microsoft.com, passport.com and MSN messenger) show exactly how powerful the Microsoft grip over computer users really is.Through their control of the software market, Bill Gates and his cohorts can also push inexperienced surfers onto Microsoft sites. It's a contentious issue which, backed up by the company's so-called ".NET" policy, has echoes of the recent anti-trust allegations against the company.Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's CEO, was unashamed when questioned about the company's approach to the web. "I don't think anybody can dominate the internet," he said. "If the question is, are we going to try to get a high percentage of all website developers and users to buy into that? Hallelujah.   I think that's exactly what people should want us to do."Among those who really have something to crow about are online shops and e-tailers. Web stores moved up to fifth place during the festive season, confirming that they managed to take a chunk of the winter's much vaunted consumer boom.Amazon recorded an extremely successful Christmas, rising as high as eighth in a seasonal ranking of the country's top domains. More traditional retailers also boosted sales, with Argos, Tesco and Comet all seeing a rise in visitor numbers over Christmas.It's good news for the sector, showing that online shopping has managed to grab a sizeable portion of the internet's growing numbers of new users. "Online retailers experienced a real growth in the run-up to Christmas, which shows just how we have come to accept the internet as part of our lives," says Jupiter MMXI analyst Patricia Lueer."Online retailers reported a successful Christmas period, with an increase of 71% from 2000. The challenge for retailers is to keep customers loyal - they cannot afford to rest on the success of Christmas."
Here's a shocker:Amy Harmonhas written a piece aboutfilm piracy on the netfor the New York Times [free registration required]withoutconcentrating on the fact that some users may be swapping Star Whores and Little Orphan Fanny* as well as Lord of the Rings and episodes of various TV series. The only mention is that there's also "a wide selection of pornography". She doesn't even blame Internet Service Providers, nor demand that the net be closed down. * Don't look for them on Morpheus, I made those up.
Here's something to think about for a while: which sells more in the US, PCs or DVD players?
Struggling to get your data on puny 650 megabyte CDs and thinking about DVD? Toshiba is going way beyond that by putting 30 gigabytes on ahigh capacity DVD(As the story says, Matsushita.has announced 50GB optical discs but they use two data layers.)
Microsoft chief software architect Bill Gates has directed his troops to makesecuritytheir top priority, rather than adding new features. Omnes: and about time too! Paul Thurrott has posted the text of Gates's memohere.
Microsoft and IBM last night made downbeat forecasts for the hi-tech market in the coming year.Both companies reported a decline in earnings for the most recent quarter due to continuing slow personal computer sales. Microsoft posted a profit of $2.28bn (&#163;1.6bn) for the second quarter, down from $2.6bn a year ago, while IBM reported a 12% drop in earnings to $2.33bn during its fourth quarter.IBM said it would meet analysts' expectations for the coming year but only after cutting out $2bn of costs.The figures were in line with most analysts' estimates but the comments on future trading depressed the shares of the two companies in after hours trade."While we are pleased with our results this quarter, we are concerned about the health of the global economy and have yet to see a recovery in many of the world's largest markets," said Microsoft's chief financial officer John Connors.IBM reported a 24% drop in hardware sales during the quarter to $8.7bn. Finance director John Joyce said it had been a "tough year". For the full 12 months, IBM reported a dip in profits from $8.1bn to $7.7bn, and a 3% slide in revenues to $86bn.Earlier, an email from Microsoft founder Bill Gates had come to light telling staff that the company needs to make itself appear more "trustworthy". The memo from Mr Gates was sent to staff on Tuesday following a series of embarrassing breaches of security in Microsoft software.Security, Mr Gates said, was to take precedent over the development of new features.Commentators have described security as the company's achilles heel and the issue has become of increasing concern as the internet becomes more ubiquitous, exposing the software group to hackers and viruses.The company plans to trawl through all of its Windows operating systems in an effort to find any security flaws that may exist.
For the millions of fans of Wallace and Gromit, the past six years have been as desolate as a cheeseboard without Wensleydale.But now Nick Park, the Oscar-winning creator of the daft inventor and his brave, noble and mute mutt, has at last provided some crackers and cheese. Twelve new one-minute Wallace and Gromit films will be released free on the internet from the autumn featuring several new idiosyncratic inventions from Wallace's workshop.As usual, long-suffering Gromit will have to test pilot the bowl-o-matic, vac-o-matic and iron-o-matic machines before Wallace is forced to think again and go back to make to some minor modifications.A breakfast TV toaster - a must in every 21st century home - is also promised from the man who brought the world its first pair of mechanical trousers. Park has been working on a full-length Wallace and Gromit film, The Great Vegetable Plot, for the past year at his Aardman studios in Bristol.Animation is a painstaking business, and it will not be ready for a few years, so Park decided to give fans this unique insight into how Wallace's inventions get from the drawing board into the sitting room - and then usually straight back into the cupboard to be locked away forever.An Aardman spokesman said, "Since the release of A Close Shave in 1995, and throughout the production of Chicken Run, Wallace and Gromit have never been far away from Nick's thoughts. A year ago he was invited by Explore, an American magazine, to create a series of photographic vignettes about Wallace's Workshop."It was this project that inspired Park to create this new series of short films. As fans already appreciate, Wallace is one of the most prolific inventors of our time."Free CD albums will be given away with newspapers and a different film downloaded every week.
The Onionon Apple's new iMac.
Interesting news today for all those trying to dream up ways to get people to pay for internet content: they're more likely to pony up if it's delivered via their mobile phone, according to research companyJupiter MMXI. The bad news is 47% of folk wouldn't think of buying content on the PC internet: might services on the PC net end up getting subsidised by mobile users?
How did you get into the games industry?I started working on amateur projects and simple freeware text-adventure games when I was about 12. My first professional job was with3D Realmsworking on Duke Nukem 3D projects. Having had business experience previously, I partnered with some talented people to create our own studio. Since Gearbox began, we have shipped three titles in three years, all of which have been Top 10 withPC Data. Half-Life and its modifications are currently the most played online action games of all time.What computer do you use?My primary machine is a 933MHz Pentium 3 with 256MB of RAM, aGeForce 2video card using Win 98. The first computer I programmed on was aTimex/Sinclair 1000. I started to get serious on a homebrewCP/M-based computermy father built. I was intoCommodore 64 and 128for a while. We got an 8086 and I have been stepping up with Intel ever since. The most profound computing moment I had was when we got our hands on an EGA card: 16 colors on a PC - unbelievable!Any contemporary games you wish you'd had a hand in?I'd enjoy working withRareon a platform game like Banjo-Kazooie. It would be nice to contribute to the new Doom game fromid Software.Grand Theft Auto 3is similar to a concept Greg Civiello and I came up with in college.Favourite games?On the PC chronologically: Colossal Cave Adventure, NetHack, the Ultima series, Doom and Half-Life. For console games: Super Mario Bros. 2, Shining in the Darkness, Zelda: A Link to the Past, Banjo-Kazooie and Chrono-Cross. My lists tend to change based on what games I am working on.Is it getting harder to be original with computer games?I think it is getting harder to not be original! There's a lot of choice in the market, so we need to differentiate ourselves if we hope to stand out. It's also very important to be grounded in something that can be understood by fans. It's important to be original, but not too original.Favourite sites?www.shacknews.com,www.bluesnews.comandwww.ign.com. I used to likeDaily Radar'snews format and broad coverage. It would be nice to see someone properly fill that gap.What's in the future for gaming?The oft-quoted Arthur C. Clark once wrote: "Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic." As we become more advanced in our technology, you'll have a harder time discerning the simulation of reality from actual reality.Visit:www.gearboxsoftware.com
Microsoft is launching Visual Studio.NET on February 13 with events in 145 cities, but mainly at VSLive! in San Francisco. This is the programming system for next-generation Web services, based on XML. If you fancy having a look at the framework, all 131 megs of it, you can download ithere
Is the apex of technology thepub-detecting watch?
One of the most endearing - and enduring - things about technology is its ability to make those who say something is impossiblelook daft. So aWired news storyon a Florida firm's claims to have created "perfect compression" is interesting. Perfect compression would be a compression routine that could compress any computer file by at least one bit (many files can be shrunk by much more than this, but not all, depending on the patterns of data inside it). Perfect compression would mean you could repeatedly shrink files, again and again, until they were a tiny fraction of their original size. That would revolutionise data storage, modem speeds, you name it. Has this unknown firm cracked the puzzle? Or is it just (another) hoax?
The euro has been successfully launched in a fanfare of publicity, and greatly relieved     Brussels bureaucrats have been indulging in much mutual backslapping. But in the acres     of print that have heralded its historic introduction, there appears to have been     precious little written about the euro's impact on e-businesses.Most of the coverage     has tended to concentrate almost exclusively on how traditional high street retailers     are coping with the changeover. So, to correct the perceived bricks and mortar bias, it     is worth investigating what e-business directors think about the introduction of the     euro.And the key question is whether a single currency could actually help to push more     shopping carts through their online tills.Navneet Bali, chief financial officer for the     online travel agency eBookers, is adamant that the euro is good news for e-businesses     of all sizes."It makes things simpler in terms of processing transactions," he says.     "When you compare hotel and airline rates, it's much simpler. There is going to be much     more price transparency."Despite his enthusiasm, he admits it was tough getting the     technology systems in a condition to accept euros."There were technology glitches.     There were tempers flaring as the deadline neared, but we got it done."The euro is     generally expected to expose price differences across Europe and intensify competition.TV news bulletins have been full of pictures of eager French bargain hunters heading     over the border into Germany to snap up bargains. But not everyone lives near the     borders.Which is why such companies as eBookers believe websites could enjoy unique     advantages. "The internet allows people to display information across physical borders,"     argues Bali. EBookers is anticipating that the euro will especially boost online air travel     in countries such as France and Germany where booking online in euros is already     growing.Other e-businesses such as Firebox, which sells computer games, videos and     gadgets, are taking a more cautious approach."We're trying to work out the relevance     it has to us," says the chief executive, Michael Smith. "We're planning to convert all our     prices into euros so people from Europe, when they are browsing the site, get an instant     currency conversion."To do this, Smith intends to take a live currency converter feed     from another site such Xe.com . He is also planning to consult his continental     suppliers about their recommendations before doing anything rash.One of the main     advantages e-businesses have is that the majority of online purchases are carried out     through credit cards, and unlike their bricks-and- mortar counterparts, sites do not     have to handle euro notes or coins.This greatly simplifies the changeover process.     However, Smith realises that if customers from continental Europe want to start paying     directly in euros with cheques or from euro bank accounts, then the company will have     to review its payment systems.Firebox anticipates that there will be more price     competition across the web as a result of the euro's introduction, particularly when it     comes to popular mainstream products such as Harry Potter merchandise or CDs of     chart-topping bands.If price-cutting spreads, he points out that e-businesses of all     sizes will have an advantage over traditional shops because they can change prices more     quickly.They don't have to worry about time-consuming things such as changing     point-of-sale material or physical labels. Online B2B (business to business)     marketplaces, where companies can find new suppliers and source products online, have     been quick to welcome the euro."It makes it easier for people to compare suppliers in     different countries. One of the dreams we have is to create a pan-European     marketplace," says Rouzbeh Piroux, chief executive of mondus, the European B2B     marketplace for small to medium sized enterprises, which has sites in Germany, France     and Italy."That is facilitated enormously by the clarity and the simplicity you get from     the euro. It makes the notion of hooking upbuyers and suppliers in different countries a     much more realistic one."Online betting sites such as Sportingbet argue that the euro     is opening up new markets because previously the banks would not accept credit card     payments from all countries. "All the banks are offering the euro for credit card     processing.Previously some banking suppliers would not support the full range of     currencies. They were being selective because of the risks of certain currency     weaknesses," says Mark Blandford, executive vice chairman of Sportingbet. The     much-hyped intro duction of a single European currency can easily mask the fact that     the continent is still riddled with myriad different local regulations, which can impact     upon e-businesses.While eBookers can see advantages in processing and highlighting     price differences on a single screen, they have not been able to strike as many     pan-European deals with airlines, which would make life easier for them. Instead, in most     cases they have to laboriously negotiate with suppliers in individual countries.Fulfilment     of orders is also still an issue, euro or no euro. Consumers in Europe might be able to     see that a fridge is cheaper in one country, but it will not be economical to transport     such items over large distances.The price savings would probably be wiped out. There     are also many goods that cannot be sold across borders in Europe unless they conform     to strict regulations. And there are language issues too, particularly if there is a     complaint and products need to be returned.The fact that the UK is still officially     outside the euro has led to many e-businesses - including Amazon - not accepting euro     payments on their UK sites in the short term. They want to see if public demand grows,     and this is another factor working against harmonisation of web transactions across     Europe.Some e-business directors argue optimistically that the internet could be a     catalyst for driving further consolidation in Europe to make cross-border trading easier.     But that clearly is not going to happen overnight.In the meantime, a single currency is     largely seen as a way of making online shopping more convenient. And that is the main     reason why websites are now saying yes to the euro.
From the car park, the headquarters of search company Google look like just any one of     several anonymous low-rise office buildings in a Silicon Valley business park. But set     foot inside the door, and it feels like you're taking a step back in time.Enter the lobby,     and on the right there's a grand piano that employees - regularly - pop down to play, to     let off steam. To the left there are lava lamps in the corporate colours, arranged     around the curvy red sofas. Above the receptionist, a (carefully filtered) scrolling     display shows a tiny percentage of the 150 million queries being entered into the Google     search box every day.Inside, the superb lunches in the canteen are served by the guy     who used to do food for the Grateful Dead on tour, and upstairs a kitchen stocked with     supplies of soft drinks, breakfast cereal and sweets keeps the techies fuelled round the     clock.Home-made gadgets sit in the corridors, like the screen that sports a map of the     world covered in blinking lights, showing where searches are coming from. Granted,     you're not stepping back very far in time, perhaps - just a couple of years back when all     dot.coms felt this carefree. But Google would doubtless claim that, unlike their dead and     dying Silicon Valley neighbours, they have earned the right to the quirky, occasionally     lavish, perks around their Googleplex, in Mountain View, California.The company is now     celebrating what it claims is a full year of profitability - although, because it is     privately owned, it does not release financial details. But, when pressed, Omid     Kordenstani, a senior vice president of the company, is more specific about what the     search engine has achieved in the past 12 months:"From the beginning we have had a     focus on having a solid business model. This past year, 2001, we were solidly profitable     all year, both on an operating basis and a net income basis."He should understand the     scepticism. A profitable dot.com is a rare thing. For one founded only in late 1998, and     - worse - a dot.com that includes advertising as one half of its business plan, Google's     progress is a feat. But then it could be argued that Google has been flying in the face of     conventional wisdom since its launch.Google, a bare-bones search with a front page     largely devoid of anything - adverts, much text, flashy graphics, even a plurality of     search boxes - first appeared as the result of a research project in early 1998. This     was at the height of the portal craze - a big is beautiful trend that was transforming     the net's biggest names, like Yahoo and AltaVista, into the multi-faceted megasites we     know today.The assumption then was that the business of finding things for users and     sending them on their way, off their own site, would never make money."I remember     Google being called anorexic," says Craig Silverstein, the company's director of     technology, "which wasn't a very positive way to describe it."But it appears to be this     intense focus on the business of finding things on the web that has allowed Google to go     on and actually make a - profitable - business of finding things. Search is all that Google     does, albeit through a growing range of mediums, from the web to Usenet newsgroups,     via mail order catalogues and news headlines."When we started, there were search     engines out there already," says Silverstein. "We certainly weren't at the vanguard of     searching the web. But the search companies that existed were branching out to become     portals, and they were pretty much of the opinion that search wasn't good enough. But     we didn't believe that at all."Based on the experience with Google when it was a     research project at Stanford, there was a highly noticeable increase in relevance that     really made a difference to users' life. We have no reason to believe that will not     continue to be the case."This focus has brought a lot of benefits to Google, even in -     perhaps especially in - the post-bubble internet world. By concentrating on improving its     search technology, it is now acknowledged by many as being the best search engine on     the web.That reputation has seen traffic grow at an extraordinary rate: one wall at the     Googleplex is covered by a vast hand-coloured chart, which rises to the right like an     imposing mountain range, showing the growth in numbers of page views. It is annotated     by employees and regular visitor Al Gore, who is a friend of chief executive Dr Eric     Schmidt.And the focus has also brought benefits to the company's balance sheet. The     company raised $1m in 1998, at the very beginning, and a further $25m from venture     capital firms in early 1999, but has not needed any more cash since. By avoiding the     expensive business of "content" - like the portal staples of news, weather and sports     reports - Google's staff only numbers around 270, rising gradually as the company looks     to develop its overseas operations. Much of the site's rapid growth has been due to     deals with bigger sites like Yahoo, who pay Google for every search they refer.Vitally,     focus has also brought the kinds of revenue the search pioneers thought did not exist in     the humble world of search. By turning Google's PageRank technology (see panel) to     serving up highly relevant advertising - presented in a unobtrusive way without the use     of the banner ad - the company claims a far greater success rate for its advertisers.Google boasts that it gets five times the industry average number of clicks on its     advertisements. With the average banner ad boasting a "clickthrough" rate of less than     1%, some in the online advertising industry now say the number of times an ad is seen -     rather than clicked on - is more important than clickthrough. But Google's Kordenstani     claims the higher average indicates greater interest in the advertisements the site     serves up. The company claims this is down to a focus on results."There is definitely     this trust that Google has results that are clean, that are not biased by advertising,     that the ads themselves are useful and that if I click on it I'll find something," he says.     "We actually turn money away when we can't have something targeted.Sometimes     people want to put an ad on a large class of queries because they feel that as long as     they hit a large set of - say - shopping queries they'll hit their target. But, for instance,     if you want to buy a Palm Pilot and you do a query for 'palm', we'll only show you     palm-related ads."The continued concentration on the business of results appears to     permeate every level of Google, from the researchers through to the business     development people. Google, itself born out of a university research project, appears     aware of the danger that another research project could come up with something better     still, and leave Google looking as cumbersome as it has such rivals as AltaVista.Take,     for example, a new generation of search engines, which are aiming to combine the     search power of Google with further refinement of the results served up. WiseNut is one     newcomer regarded by some as second only to Google for the breadth of its search     results. But it also bunches what it finds under specific classes of result, making its     results easy to browse.Meanwhile Vivisimo - the product of a group of academics at     Carnegie Mellon University - uses the results of other search engines, but clusters them     to make the results easier to browse. Teoma looks and works in a similar way to Google,     but adds page ranking depending on what experts in particular fields recommend. And     Daypop targets a Google weak ness - news searches - to great effect.Danny O'Sullivan,     editor of Search Engine Watch, is full of praise for Teoma and its relevancy, and     suggests they could challenge Google as investment allows them to broaden their index.Likewise, he says Alltheweb has made great advances in the past 12 months, making it     his second-favourite web crawler. But, for now, Google remains top of the pile and is     going "from strength to strength"."You find yourself thinking 'thank God they are     around'. And that's what I constantly hear," says Sullivan. But Google's huge popularity     could also cause a problem for the site, he warns."This leads to one of the only major     concerns you would have - you look at Google's dominance of search and people are     extremely positive about it. Yet they have a dominance that is almost Microsoft-like in     nature. And that's a company people generally don't like."Part of their business is     selling search. Now they're the dominant search, that's going to become more difficult.     They can't say &#91;to partners&#93; 'we're not competing with you'.Yahoo could look at Google     and say: 'you've got really good results, in fact we even agree you've got better results     than everyone else, but you're competing with us, you cost us, and we think we're better     off partnering with Alltheweb'."Negotiation of a new deal with Yahoo, due for this     summer, will give an indication of whether Google is feared as the Microsoft of search,     or still admired as being the best of the bunch. Ahead of that, at the Googleplex the     intensive research goes on - between roller hockey in the car park and visits to the     in-house, full-time masseuse - to keep on cataloguing."We're still at the stage that     everyone agrees that there is good content out there that isn't indexed yet," says     Silverstein."One day we think people will look back on the indices that exist now and     wonder how we managed to get anything done. I don't know when that day will be, but I do     believe that there are still big jumps that people will really notice, and will make     differences to their lives. "There's so much to do, and we're happy to remain focused on     that."How Google worksWhat makes Google so effective at finding what you want? It boils down to the complexity of the index it creates as it explores, or "crawls", the web.Other web crawlers index the pages by counting the number of times particular words appear in the code. For instance, were a user to enter "Online" in the search box, a page containing the word "Online" 10 times would appear above one containing the word five times.However, that makes it easy for unscrupulous web page editors to fool the search engine into giving them high rankings, because they can repeat words many times, either on the page or hidden in its code. They can thus appear high up on searches even if their page is irrelevant.Google works differently. It also looks at the content of a page, although it tries to see it from the user's point of view. Therefore, if a word appears in bold type on a web page, it ranks that word as being particularly important for that page. If a word does not display on the page, it ignores it.More importantly, Google also uses the structure of the web to determine the importance of a given page. Google counts the number of links to a page from other sites, counting each link as a vote. So if site one links to site two, that's regarded as a vote for site two by site one.Furthermore, if site one is itself a popular, well linked-to site, then the votes it casts for other sites are regarded as more important. That means a link from -say -the Guardian's web site to a personal home page counts for much more in Google's eyes than that home page's link to the Guardian.
The internet is slow to recognise its responsibilities as an ethical player. If we have     racism, a digital divide is its new colonial frontier. Passions surrounding the access and     control of IT worldwide have triggered a cultural revolution.It is less about tangible     resources, and more about who has access to information as the new generator of     wealth. Statistics from the US (Cultural Access Group, 2000) cite black women as the     primary internet users in black online communities, more than three quarters of all     African-American users, while only 35% of internet users overall are women.This     doesn't mean a racial digital divide doesn't exist. Computer technology is monopolised by     avant-garde elites, advertisers, and e-commerce gangs exploiting the terra nullius of     cyberspace.Despite the Goliath corporate wars, IT has become a fundamental right to     access, not a discretionary one. "David" is fighting back, from marginalised minority     communities to developing nations.I am stirred by the implications of race in     cyberspace. The new Xbox may be sexy and virtually compelling, but most kids of colour     on the planet aren't literate, nourished and disease-protected, so first things first.Class buys its way into any new commodity and mostly informs and controls the means     of IT production including the distribution of resources. In America, the issue of class     defines who has access to long-term training and the tools of computer technology.The     European Union, seeing a digital divide between eastern and western Europe, has     prioritised IT development in eastern Europe.What these initiatives strive for are     learning communities as a track to democratic culture. The future of linking students     and teachers in networked learning communities around the globe represents the best     hope for a peaceful century. A digital divide will persist.English remains the lingua     franca of at least 80% of all web sites, and more than half of all of the internet's host     computers are in the US. Regions are confronting the digital divide in novel ways.The     Bangalore Declaration - a plethora of UN projects from Iraq to Romania, and Britain's UK     Online campaign - try to keep the agendas of inclusion tied to the policy agendas of     nations. Can a digital divide even exist if the internet is doubling every year?What do     we yearn for as pluralistic societies - better ways to access cell phone/internet calls or     more technologies that invade the space of the mind and body? Sometimes it would be     nice to write a letter with real ink.Is cultural and ethnic representation possible in IT     spaces? Do cultural groups tend to assimilate into the white western technology elite?     Certainly, ethnic minorities among the middle and upper classes in Britain and the US     have been able to maintain connections with families abroad through complex financial     arrangements facilitated by technology and class privilege.Among African Americans in     the US, the best educated people of African descent, a digital divide none the less     exists. The scenarios re-circulate - poverty, lack of access, unequal educational     opportunities, and the absence of family property.These have historically marginalised     a group whose role in the US economy over centuries was structured to create an     "underclass". No excuse, you say? Nobel prize winner Amartya Sen reminds us that     "African Americans have an absolutely lower chance of reaching mature ages than do     people of many third world societies, such as China, or Sri Lanka, or parts of India".In     tracking the arrange-ments that brought about the structural inequalities precipitating     the digital divide, the path leads back to globalisation's ubiquitous projects of free     trade, development and colonialism. The movement of human beings for jobs and a     better life also factors into the considerations of where the centres of access tend to     be, and where IT access thrives.Access to technology is further constrained by national     financial commitments to reallocate domestic spending in ways that benefit "the haves"     by virtue of their education. Governments are faced with trading off social     responsibility goals for profits. Yet cultural anomalies abide. In Accra, which has only     240,000 telephone lines for 19m million people, there are 100 cybercafes.But these     are not really anomalies. This is still the middle class moving through the world. Has the     internet emerged as the "new territory" of manifest destiny, the new terra nullius? Has     not cyberspace, its networks and its applications, become the new terra nullius in the     global economic pursuit for resources and information?Lack of education is a tool of     demagogues who hate independent thinkers. We cannot afford to wait until 2015 when     the Dakar Declaration on universal education is implemented.
Launch!Yahoo has launched itself into the online music business with a new version ofLaunch.com, which it bought for only $12m last summer. Yahoo's service has a Launch     address, though the logicalLaunch.comworks too. The site uses Flash 5,     which means a download and a reboot, or unbearable annoyance. The colourful, tabbed     design looks more like MSN/Hotmail than Yahoo, but the performance was very good with     the Windows Media formats I tried. You can log in with your Yahoo ID, watch music     videos, and set up your own "radio station" (well, pick artists for a playlist). US users     can also sign up for a 14-day trial of PressPlay, the subscription music service, for     $9.95 to $24.95 per month.UK bookedAlmost every statistic     you might want to know about the UK, and a lot you don't, is packed intoUK 2002: The Official Yearbook of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. You can     download three files containing the yearbook as a 4.9MB PDF file, the colour maps, and     Excel spreadsheets. Remember to right-click and choose Save Target As or use a file     downloader such as Reget or DAP.Shop hereIf you would like to shop your enemies - or     even your friends - for wrong-doing,Whistler Bloweris one way to do it. The site is     backed by Vogon International, a data security company, and says: "We will make no     attempt to trace where your information came from." But if you are going to send     information toanon@www.whistleblower.sh, you should obviously do it from an internet     cafe, not your office computer, and use at least oneanonymous remailer. You could also     check theDTI'sguidelines on the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998.Kid safeThe internet is a potentially     dangerous place for children, but a new campaign calledKidSmarthas just been launched     to help. It provides kids with sets of safe links for sites in some popular categories,     plus checklists for parents and teachers. The site has been launched by Childnet and     Tiny Computers, and has a prominent link to the government's child safety site,Wise Up     To The Net. KidSmart is also holding seminars and workshops at participating schools.Follow thatIf you would like to take     part in 31 hours of "timed, responsorial writing online", sign up forQuick-Shift. This     international event is being organised by the Trace Online Writing Centre, and will be     held over the weekend of January 26-27. Each writer will have seven minutes to write     (and proof-read) their contribution in response to the one before.Short FyuzeWhen recommendingFyuzeas a do-it-yourself portal last year, I said: "It seems you can only have two pages,     News and Search." You could have more, in fact, but I didn't see how. Now, it's     impossible to miss. When you create your portal you start at the screen that creates     more index tabs, and "edit tabs" is unmissably one of the three functions offered when     you click on customise.Ask awayA growing number of     American libraries are starting to offer a 24/7 service, which means people can get     answers to questions over the web all week long. The247ref siteoffers a demo, and     (under Communities) a list of libraries offering the service. Of course, if it's a really     hard question, the traditional place to ask is the Stumpers-L mailing list, which has been     going since 1992. Recently, someone asked if there was a word for lying on one's side,     to go with prone (on one's front) and supine (on one's back). Within 15 minutes came the     reply: "In medicine, the formal term is left or right lateral decubitus position."Coincidence?You may have seen the     perfect woman but don't know who she is and have no chance of meeting her.Coincidence Design Incof Chicago, Illinois, has the solution, at a very high price. The     company will "stalk" her on your behalf, and engineer meetings - you might, for example,     sit next to her on a plane. It could well be a parody, as I can't find the company in US     phone books, though it is listed in Yahoo under Investigative Services. However, parody     sites tend to have lots of obvious signals for the irony-challenged. A good example is     the mandatory patriotic tattoo (or bar code) spoof at the official-soundingWhitehouse.org, which could be mistaken forWhitehouse. gov. It is credited as "aChickenhead Productionparody".New &amp; noted&#183;World     Technology Awards&#183;Yahoo UK's picks&#183;Can you get broadband?www.broadbandmap.co.uk&#183;Mike Cowlishaw, creator of the Rexx language, has dug out     his old Acorn:www.cary.demon.co.uk/acorn&#183;How did you live without this?http://calcampus.com/stapler/Six of the bestPay to playPressPlaywww.pressplay.comMusicNetwww.musicnet.comRhapsodyhttp://listen.comNew Napsterwww.napster.comBT classicshttp://music.btopenworld.com/classicalVoluntarywww.fairtunes.com
Long considered the pursuit of American presidents needing to prove they were that bit    more Irish than the next guy, genealogy has only recently emerged in the UK as one of    the most popular subjects on the web. Yet last week's crash of the government's 1901     census websitewww.familyrecords.gov.ukunder the weight of 50 million hits is     perhaps not so surprising for a hobby that has been growing in popularity since the mid     90s and was always uniquely suited to the internet.What better for a medium founded     on the spirit of co-operation than a hobby that genuinely rewards the maxim "seek and     ye shall find"?Today's genealogist can go far with little more than a mouse and an     armful of questions, although when digging up a family tree, there is still no substitute     for basic detective work. Inevitably this involves seeking out birth certificates, leafing     through photo albums or simply talking to relatives.A breakthrough often hangs on a     single conversation, so finding old friends and neighbours can also be useful, in which     case services such asLookUpUKorFriends Reunitedwww.lookupuk.comcan also come in handy. After this, it is down to the real     business of root-hunting.A trip to the excellentwww.genuki.org.ukyields a FAQ to get     you started and a comprehensive list of surnames already being investigated.There is     no point painstakingly researching the origin of your name only to find that six people in     your area have already done it. If your quest is more historical,www.ancestry.comhas a     powerful search engine, broken down by county, which should help you track down birth     certificates, parish records or land registries to the 16th century and beyond.Browsing     at a site such as this can save you weeks of pointless digging or tedious trips to public     records offices. Genealogy also provides a rare example of Usenet holding its own     against its better-looking brother, with newsgroups such as soc.genealogy.britain and     alt.genealogy every bit as revealing as anything on the web.Newsgroups are full of     people seeking much the same thing as you, and contacts made on the bulletin boards     are often surprisingly revealing, especially when seeking family members who may have     emigrated. Most countries have their own genealogy newsgroups, so use a search engine     or newsreader such as Outlook Express to seek them out, and don't be afraid to post     messages, as members can be genuinely obliging with help and advice.For hard facts,     however, a trip back to official resources is unavoidable. Even without the 1901 Census     (still offline at the time of writing) the Public Records Officehas thousands of documents to consider: for instance, many     19th century wills can be downloaded at £3 per pdf file.When travelling from your desk     becomes necessary (and even now the vast majority of information on births, deaths     and population trends is only available in print), the web can still save you valuable     leg-work. Before traipsing to theBritish Library, for instance, try searching the     database in advance. to save yourself a trip.Where overseas relatives are     concerned, there is no practical alternative to using the web, but even here resources     such asandwww.rootsweb.comare full of tips and links, especially     for America and Australia, which historically received the largest influx of Brits.Pretty     soon, all this detective work will become hard to keep track of. Fortunately, there are     plenty of software packages to make organisation easier and results more attractive to     present. Ultimate Family Tree (£9.99,www.learningstore.co.uk) may look a little     sparse, but is well loved by professionals for being able to add footnotes to original     records and web-authoring links to help you get your findings online.Even more     comprehensive isFamily Tree Makerwhich comes in several     forms including a suspiciously overblown 24-CD edition, now available for a knockdown     £24 fromAmazon.com.Be warned, however. Although these products are available in UK     editions, many are not, so check before you buy into a database that covers the US but     not your own back yard. For safety, try out a shareware program first, such as the     excellent Kith &amp; Kin Pro, which is available free fromwww.spansoft.org. Not that     software is any substitute for patience and a relentlessly enquiring mind, of course.     Genealogy is still far from an easy hobby, full of dead ends and misleading trails. But     being blessed with the most helpful newsgroups on the net means it has never been     easier to pursue.
Brand tonesDownloadable ringtones (Online, January 10) serve a very useful purpose in distinguishing your phone's plaintive cries from everyone else's. You don't need to be one of those twitchy folk who go for their gun every time the pre-set Nokia ringtone sounds in the saloon bar. In marketing terms, ringtones are true communications products: they make a statement about the user's identity or aspirations, just like brands. People are less happy to pay for downloadable music because they don't really regard consumable products as valuable. Now, if only someone could invent the downloadable snap-on phone jacket...Paul Maypaul.may@verista.comMidi tonesMy 15-year-old son has found a way to add new ringtones without exhorbitant charges. He downloads midi files on a PC and opens a music program (EVA Audio) to show the musical score. He then copies the musical notes onto his Sagem mobile. He put Mission: Impossible on to his phone last week.Gill Staffordgill.stafford@talk21.comPersonal toneVictor Keegan is wrong. It is no mystery why people pay handsomely for mobile ring  tones, when they want content on the web to be free. The mobile is an entirely different kind of device to the PC or digital TV. It is more than personal - it is an intimate object that is part of your identity, in both physical, emotional and psychic terms. This is why mobile telephony is one of the most important communication channels both now and in the future.Lucy Kimbellme@lucykimbell.comAcid testVictor Keegan is right: data stored electronically will be ephemeral in the long term unless an electronic version of the Rosetta Stone is invented. I recall that a top US committee, several years ago, thought through possibilities for archiving scientific information. The recommendation was simply that acid-free paper is the best storage medium.  Victor, is your new diary acid free?Stanley Brownbrownfarthings@aol.comAgenda bendaHaving worked on the problem of digital preservation I sympathise with Victor Keegan. If he still has the Agenda file then one possible solution would be to download an emulator from Psion (or Symbian?) so that he could at least access the file on his PC.Stewart Grangerstewartg@dial.pipex.comOff the LinuxSorry to be a kill-joy. I realise that religious fundamentalism in the IT world is such a fun sport (Free software survives downturn, January 10) whether practised by Linux, Microsoft or other types of religious follower.  Mention of IBM's Distributed Terascale Facility (DTF) as proof of GNU/Linux's ability to scale to handle serious enterprise-level tasks is inappropriate to most enterprises. This is a "supercomputer" project where large numbers of small (1 or 2 CPU) processor nodes are interconnected to support high performance, parallel computing. Linux is the operating system on each node but it forms only a small, albeit useful, part of the overall complex infrastructure. This technology has little relevance to typical commercial applications that are most of the enterprise market.Brian Kingbking@dial.pipex.comJack's the manI endorse Daniel Lamont's comments about Jack Schofield (Feedback, January 10). The man is an oasis of practical sanity, and should be treasured. Anyone making snide comments about Ask Jack should write the word "stupid" in lipstick on a mirror, and take a long hard look. He often deals with things people might feel daft asking, without any patronising over  tones. I keep a file of cuttings. Even where there is no immediate relevance, I know they will save my life one day.Conrad Cork TadleyConradCork@TadleyEwing.co.ukHear, hearI am a regular, though amateur, user of a PC and the internet. Ask Jack is unfailingly informative. Let's have even more in the future!Chris Webberchris@webberc34.fsnet.co.ukRadio blogLovely stuff in theOnline blog. Can we have it as an RSS feed soon, to be used with Radio 8.0, for instance?John Kayejpkaye@btinternet.comOnline replies:Good idea... we hope to do that very soon.
Burning musicI've downloaded a number of music files and would like to make     compilation CDs to play on my stereo. Can I adjust the playback level prior to, or during,     copying?Ken JonesWarringtonJack Schofield replies:MP3 CD Makerseems to do what you want. Alternatives include thedBpowerAMP Music Converterand the paid for version ofMusic Match. For others, search onGooglefor "mp3 volume normalization".Anti-wormA friend in the US offers a suggestion for dealing with "worms". It involves creating a new contact in Address Book with the name !000 (exclamation mark and three zeros). What is your opinion?AlanSimpson@onetel.net.ukJS:The idea was widely discussed last year but it doesn't solve the problem. For a discussion of the issues, seehttp://techupdate.zdnet.com/techupdate/stories/main/0,14179,2821795,00.htmlScreen showI have on my PC a number of photos from a recent trip. I'd like to set these     up to run as a slideshow screensaver.Michael WellsFort WilliamJS:Start with Julian     Moss's SlideShow, free fromwww.tech-pro.co.uk. Searching Google for "slideshow     screensaver windows" (without the quotes) will find numerous alternatives.Mail moveHow can I get Outlook Express to put messages in a folder of my choice so they can be     backed up?DavidWood@ntlworld.co.ukJS:Create a folder where you want your mail to be     stored. You could call it My Mail, and make it a subdirectory of My Documents. Open     Outlook Express and select Tools| Options|Maintenance. Click the Store Folder button,     then the Change button, and browse to your new folder. Click OK until you can close     down the program. Open OE again and it will move your mail to the new folder. Do not     attempt to move the files manually.Search me I have a problem with Internet Explorer.     When I type in a wrong URL, instead of coming up with the default error page, it     redirects me to2KSearch.com. This is very frustrating as this contains many pop-ups     etc.Harry Bevanbigangryzebra@hotmail.comJS:There should be a simple answer. Click     the Search icon on IE's toolbar to open a search pane, then click Customize, and up     should pop a dialogue box called Customize Search Settings. This lets you select a     search engine and set or disable Autosearch. Seeherefor a good description.Unfortunately, this does not     work with 2KSearch.com, which seems to keep control of the Customize button. Worse,     while many of the odious suppliers who take over people's browsers at least provide a     removal tool, 2KSearch does not, or not one I can find. The only way out seems to be to     edit the Windows Registry directly, so restart your PC and make a back up of that (seeAnnoyances.org).Go to Start| Run, type regedit in the box,     and click OK. Now click the crosses to navigate down the tree to HKEY_CURRENT_ USER\Software\Microsoft\ Internet Explorer\Main. Select Default_ Search_URL,     right-click on it and select Modify, then delete http://www.clickyestoenter.net/search.htm from the pop-up box. Next, go down from Main to     the entry for Search, where you will find the Customize Search key has been set to     http://drvvv.com - which is, in fact, the web page that pops up when you hit the     Customize button. Again, modify this entry to delete the URL.Finally, in this section,     check the SearchURL key for any suspicious entries. Alas, we have not finished yet.     There is a similar set of keys in the registry, at     HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Internet Explorer\Main and \Search. Here     you will also find entries for http://drvvv. com that can be deleted in the same way. To     get the Customize option back, replace the http://drvvv.com/entry in Search withhttp://ie.search.msn.com{SUB_RFC1766}/srchasst/srchasst.htmAfter painfully     working through this process from a position of ignorance, I wondered if there was a     simpler way. Google has a tweak that changes IE's search settings to Google, and if you     change your mind, a tweak to change it back. This might help remove 2KSearch.com.Go     towww.google.com/options/defaults.htmland click on the second underlined "this file"     (after "If you change your mind") to download and save a file called default.reg. Double     clicking this file will restore some correct entries to the registry. And if you open the     file in Notepad (eg by changing .reg to .txt), it includes the search assistant line with     the curly brackets (above), so at least you would not have to type this in.BackchatSeveral people confessed to deleting the harmless SULFNBK.EXE file after receiving a     hoax virus letter. It is not a virus. Many sites tell you how to restore the file, bothofficialandunofficial. Read the Microsoft paper and     decide if you need to bother.&#183;Mike Gerrard wanted a more reliable email service, and     one I suggested wasGMX. The Munich-based company has now said it     will stop offering support in English from January 31. David Murray from Greenford     suggestsNetidentity.com, which offers personalised domains for $2.95 per     month. Another reader recommends Novell'sMy Real Box: "spam     blocking is superb."
CNet has started an interesting series ofCEO profileson the top chief execs in the computer industry. The first two are Sun's Mr Motormouth,Scott McNealy, and Microsoft's "DancingSteve" Ballmer. No idea why Apple's Steve Jobs is not on the list.
Ecks vs SeverGame Boy Advance	&#163;34.99 Crawfish/BAM Entertainment	****DrivenGame Boy Advance	&#163;34.99 Crawfish/BAM Entertainment	**Numerous games are based on films, but few impress. For every Goldeneye there are duds such as Mission Impossible. But this inconsistency hasn't put off BAM Entertainment, publishers of Driven and Ecks vs Sever for the Game Boy Advance.Driven is based on the recent Sly Stallone stiff and does a good job of recreating the movie's awfulness. This is a strictly average racing game that, while fun in multiplayer, offers little that hasn't been seen. The one innovation is the "zone" - a short speed burst gained when driving well - but overall it is mediocre.The other BAM release, Ecks vs Sever, is based on a   film that is not out until late this year, but the game itself is decent enough.Following in the bloody footsteps of Doom, this is the second, and best, first-person shooter to appear on the GBA. With graphics that a few years ago would have required a &#163;1,500 PC to run, and a highly enjoyable multiplayer option, this is a tasty slice of gaming.Playing as either of the titular agents, your aim is to work through the levels that vary depending on the character chosen. This involves lots of shooting, although stealth and tactics play a surprisingly important role. The controls, while not as familiar as a mouse and keyboard, are also well done, making full and intuitive use of all the buttons.Ecks vs Sever on GBA bodes well for the film while Driven unfortunately echoes its source a bit too accurately.  (GH)StrongholdPC	&#163;25 Take2/Interactive	****After a glut of realtime strategy (RTS) games last year, it takes something special to stand out from the crowd. Stronghold has an original premise, namely the building up and tearing down of castles but, surprisingly, this proves to be its least endearing feature.Basically, this is an RTS in the mould of the popular Settlers series. You do not have direct control over your peasant workforce, but as soon you build something, they will ensure it works properly. This micro-economy drives the game, as without weapons and resources your army will starve and your castle crumble under the relentless assault of intelligent enemies.Sensibly then, the game is divided into combat and economic missions, allowing those who enjoy the city-planning aspect freedom to build. With four resources that need balancing and complex supply chains to maintain,   this is enjoyable in itself.Combat fans can look forward to four main opponents with varying degrees of aggression and ability; from the irritating but harmless Rat to the mighty Wolf. Their stories are well told in the cut-scenes between the 21 combat   levels, giving the game a compulsive challenge.The main weakness lies in the supposedly tense castle sieges. Although there are plenty of devices to build and deploy, from turrets and drawbridges to boiling oil and pitch ditches, controlling them can be fiddly. This makes combat dependent on heavily armoured knights and crossbowmen, as well as revealing some annoying lapses in the intelligence of your men at crucial times.Stronghold is long and satisfying, always fun to watch, not quite a trend-setter, but a fine RTS game. (MA)Microsoft Flight Simulator 2002 Professional EditionPC	&#163;69.99 Microsofts	*****The box claims this is "as real as it gets" and it is hard to argue. For example, you can see the ground reflected in the engine nacelles, and rain distorts the view through the windscreen. The engines sound different depending on whether you use an in-cockpit or outside view. At some airports, not only are the runways true to life - and displayed using graphics based on satellite images - but you can use different gates.The 12 planes, including a seaplane and a Bell heli copter, are shown in minute detail, and some of the scenery is amazing. The US is best supported, of course, but Heathrow is done well. Authentic ATC (air traffic control) interaction has been added. But there does come a point where realism is abandoned: when you crash.This is a simulation, not a    game, and it takes about a week to get into it. Planes are easy to get off the ground, not so easy to fly, and can be tricky to land. For newcomers there is a simple video introduction from trainers Martha and John King, plus six detailed   flying lessons from Rod Machado. Budding pilots should find it a help, especially when learning to navigate using instruments.You can download "real weather" from the net, and fly with up to 300 other people via Microsoft's GameZone.Graphically and sonically, FS2002 is a big improvement on the previous version, but it also runs at a reasonable rate. Microsoft recommends a 300MHz processor and 64 megabytes of memory as the minimum. A 450MHz Pentium II or faster, and 128MB, is a better idea. You also need at least 750MB of hard drive space (the game comes on three CDs). And while you can fly using the PC keyboard, Microsoft hopes you will buy its Sidewinder Force Feedback joystick, so you can feel the G-forces and the effects of wind shear. (JS)
After a year that the US President of Sony Consumer Electronics, Fujio Nishida,
   diplomatically described as "challenging", the world's consumer electronics
   manufacturers regrouped at the Consumer Electronic Show (CES) show in LasVegas last
   week.Buoyed by reports that sales of televisions, DVD players and gadgets had been
   encouraging over the crucial Thanksgiving/Christmas period, the makers unveiled their
   key products for 2002.However, after several years of innovative, some might add,
   useless gadgets and toys, this year will see a relatively conservative selection of
   products hitting the stands. Microsoft chairman Bill Gates kicked off the show in the
   traditional manner with a light-hearted speech highlighting how Microsoft products were
   migrating from the office to the living room.This year's debutants included Freestyle, a
   new set of technologies for the Windows XP operating system that allows a PC to be
   operated by a TV style remote control, and Mira, a wireless web tablet. Back on the
   conference floor the key words ringing in delegates' ears were hard disk technology,
   with manufacturers parading both portable and set-top video and audio products.Few
   were as ambitious as the Media Center (MC) from the start-up company Moxi. A
   contender for the ultimate set top box, the MC offers either satellite or cable TV
   connection, a hard disk personal video recorder, a digital music MP3 jukebox, a DVD
   player and broadband connected internet gateway in the same box.The company is
   confident that once deals with cable/satellite TV operators are struck, the unit will be
   available in the UK within a year. Pioneer offered a similar product with its Digital
   Library, though without the cable/satellite TV connection, while TiVo announced it would
   be adding music functionality to its next generation hard disk video recorders via a deal
   with Real Networks.There are no plans to introduce this to the UK. Philips is also hoping
   to expand the horizons of music lovers. Its Streamium MC-i200 is a micro hi-fi system
   that features access to online music via a broadband internet connection. Users can
   either tune into net radio stations or access streamed tunes provided by music
   providers who have signed deals with Philips including MP3.com, Virgin and AOL.A UK
   launch is planned for early summer and the system's price is expected to be around
   £350. CES also delivered a host of new MP3 players, including a few Apple iPod clones,
   which offered not only large amounts of storage but also video and still camera
   functionality.A contender for gadget of the show, Panasonic's SV-AV10 features an
   MP3 player, still and video digital camera and a voice recorder in one tiny wearable unit.
   It can hold up to 30 minutes of MPeg4 video, or up to 880 low resolution images on its
   64MB Secure Digital (SD) memory card. The user can then preview their footage on the
   unit's 2in LCD screen.It is expected to reach the UK in the summer for around £400.
   Panasonic also unveiled the portable SD-VM1, which in addition to playing MP3 music also
   enables the user to view recorded TV programmes on its 1.8in LCD screen. It comes
   with a docking station that hooks up to a VCR and can store up to two hours of MPeg4
   video on its accompanying 64MB Secure Digital card.A rival product due in the UK in
   early spring is the Archos Jukebox Multimedia. To a small handheld MP3 player with a
   10gigabyte hard disk, Archos has added a tiny LCD screen that can view images and
   video taken via a snap-on digital camera.The unit can transfer music from a PC or
   record directly from any music source and can store and play back several hours of
   video recorded from a TV. Its price is expected to be around £350 for the base unit and
   a further £120 for the camera/video add-ons.Motorola used CES to launch the fabled
   wind-up battery phone recharger. The unit, which allows five minutes of talk time after
   less than a minute of winding, goes on sale in the UK in the spring for £80.Also new
   from Motorola is an in-car Bluetooth wireless mobile phone system (due in summer for
   around £200), while Plantronics unveiled a Bluetooth headset that works with any
   existing mobile phone (also due in the summer but no prices were available).
Mobile phones could become the new wallets as the ubiquitous mobile starts to take on
   new functions.This is already true of some early adopters like Dr Rudiger Hausmann,
   vice president of intelligent services at Siemens, the mobile phone company, who says:
   "My phone is my wallet."Think how convenient it would be. No change for a parking
   metre? Use your mobile to buy an hour's parking. Want a cold drink? Just pay with your
   mobile. Even large items, such as plane tickets, could be paid for with a mobile "wallet",
   says Steven Day of Virgin Mobile.But will consumers and businesses take to this form
   of payment? After all, shopping on the internet has not grown as quickly as market
   research firms predicted.Dr Hausmann believes payment using a mobile will take off
   more quickly, partly because people carry their phones wherever they go. Mobile
   operators agree, and are keen to earn a share of the potential transaction revenues.Orange is running a mobile payment service in Denmark. Vodafone launches a UK
   micropayments service next month, and last week began trials of a global mobile
   payment system called M-Wallet in the UK, Germany and Italy.Nokia, the mobile phone
   manufacturer, is also helping to drive interest. Its 6340 phone, which goes on sale in
   the first half of this year, allows users to store credit and debit card information in
   standard Electronic Commerce Markup Language along with shipping addresses, in an
   encrypted area of the phone's memory.The details can be transferred to Wap mobile
   internet sites. It is already possible to pay for lunch at the Circus restaurant in Soho
   using a mobile, if you have registered with the Paybox mobile payment service,
   part-owned by Deutsche Bank. After dining, you give the waiter your mobile number and
   he phones Paybox's voice response service and gives it to them.The service will say
   "please hold". While holding, Paybox will automatically call you on your mobile and ask you
   to type in your PIN to authorise the bill. Then it will tell the waiter the bill has been paid.
   Paybox can also be tied in to the restaurant's till or computer system to save a call.In
   Germany, Paybox can be used in places from hairdressers to nightclubs, says Barry
   Shrier, the company's UK sales and marketing director. Money is directly debited from
   the user's bank account, so users are credit-scored and given a spending limit when
   they sign up.Mobiles have the potential to be a more secure form
   of payment than alternatives. First, there is the built-in security of customers having a
   physical device with them to make the payment.Second, payment products are emerging
   that give the customer more control over their spending than existing methods, such as
   cash, debit/credit cards or cheques.For example, pay@once software from Siemens and
   Brokat, the German financial technology company, updates users' spending history
   instantly when a purchase is made.It is being used in customer trials at the D2
   Vodafone network in Germany. Users can see at a glance the amount of money
   remaining. How does m-payment work? In Denmark, Orange customers register at its
   website, giving their name, mobile phone number and credit (or debit) card details. They
   are then allocated a PIN.This equips them to shop with 63 retailers including Ikea, the
   furniture chain, Interflora and Domino's Pizza. They can purchase goods via Wap or on
   the net. A mobile text message asks: "Please enter PIN to confirm Ikea sofa purchase
   for DKr3,600."Transactions take 10 seconds to clear, the same as using a credit card
   in store, according to Olivier Lamer, payment solution manager at Orange Denmark.
   Orange plans to introduce the service, which won a user-friendliness award last year, to
   other countries.Vodafone's global payment system works in a similar way. Vodafone's
   Janine Young says: "Up to three payment methods - credit card, debit card and direct
   debit - can be associated with one mobile phone number. The PIN the user gives will
   indicate which card or account is to be debited."M-Wallet can be used to buy goods over
   Wap or the net and will be extended to purchases in bricks &amp; mortar stores. Vodafone's
   micropayment service will enable UK customers to charge purchases to their mobile
   bills. This is possible now using "reverse charge SMS" to buy a new ringtone, but charges
   can only be made in multiples of the cost of a message, eg 10p, 20p or 30p etc.The
   micropayment service launching in late February will make it possible to pay for items
   costing anything from 5p to £5. One of the biggest early uses of m-payment is to top up
   airtime on the phone itself. The Irish company Network365 has devised a mobile wallet
   for topping up airtime.The system allows operators to alert the customer that their
   account is low. Day says:"Phones are already half way to being wallets. They include
   prepaid 'cash' or a mandate to deduct money from the user's bank account. And the SIM
   cards inside use the same technology and are made by the same companies that make
   the microchips for 'smart' credit cards."He expects to see micropayments, for buying
   MP3 music files, and tickets for Virgin trains, soon. A cinema ticket-buying system for
   mobiles from the UK-based Digital Rum is already underway; the company has
   agreements with Odeon cinemas, Vodafone and T-Motion, the mobile portal available to
   One2One users.An m-payment trial for parking in Dublin and Croydon was announced
   yesterday by Mobile 2 Meter of Ireland. Drivers register on the net, then phone a number
   on the parking meter, indicate how long they want to park, and get an itemised bill by
   email. However, analysts are wary about the near-term picture.Amrish Kacker of
   Analysys says: "Obstacles remain, such as the lack of a single mobile-payment
   standard." Even in Finland, m-payment's growth has been underwhelming. Lars
   Vestergaard, research manager for wireless at IDC, says:"The next 18 months will see
   lots of trials in the UK and southern Europe, with m-payment being adopted in niche
   areas like ticketing and entertainment. It will take longer for mass acceptance but
   m-payment is going to be huge." Cash will never die, but it is going to get easier to leave
   your wallet at home.
It is really hard to break innovative products in the PC business, and Sony has just dropped one of the few that might have made it -- theVaio Slimtop Pen Tablet-- according to a ZD Net News storyhere. I only used it briefly at trade shows and a Sony dealer show, and with long term use might have found it a little inflexible. It was also too expensive, so I would never have bought one myself. Still, the basic ideas will live on, and could reach a larger market late this year whenTablet PCsrunning Windows XP start to appear.
The stars of animator Nick Park's Oscar-winning The Wrong Trousers and A Close Shave are to make their return on the internet, it was revealed today.Wallace, a prolific inventor fond of red ties, green tank tops and Wensleydale cheese with creations such as the aforementioned mechanical trousers to his name, will be reunited with his plasticine dog, Gromit, in 12 one-minute movies.In them the long-suffering Gromit will demonstrate new innovations including a cricket ball bowling gun and a toaster-cum-TV.The films were inspired by a set of photos Mr Park was commissioned to create by a US magazine on the theme of Wallace's workshop.Wallace and Gromit have not had any new adventures since 1995's A Close Shave, which chronicled the pair's troubles with a knitting machine.Mr Park's company, Aardman, has been a pioneer of internet animation, with the Angry Kid series the first from a studio to be released on the web.In a statement it said: "This is the first opportunity that millions of fans will have to enjoy brand new Wallace and Gromit films"The movies will be available to download for free from the autumn or to buy later on video.Mr Park has also spent the past year working on the script for a full-length film featuring the duo, The Great Vegetable Plot, after he secured a £25m Hollywood deal. Released in two years time, it will be Aardman's second full-length feature - following Chicken Run - but only one in a series to attract the film world's attention.In 1990 he received the Best Short Animated Film Academy Award for the five-minute Creature Comforts and he collected the same award in 1993 for The Wrong Trousers and in 1995 for A Close Shave.
It's a pity that so few people understood what Microsoft showed at the recent Consumer Electronics Show -- either because they are clueless or couldn't be bothered to look.Still, at least ZD Net News is on the ball (if a little over the top) with a story about the potential to develop the Xbox games console into the long-rumouredMicrosoft HomeStation. This idea has been given a prod by competition fromSteve Perlman, the man behind theMoxi Digitalentertainment hub. (Perlman used to work for Microsoft after it bought his WebTV company.) But beware of spending too much time worrying about what Microsoft might or might not do. Remember that the Xbox is based on the Windows NT/XP kernel and the functions to run HomeStation-style products will become part of the operating system. If Microsoft doesn't do it, a dozen other companies will.
The memory glut is over. Hope you took my advice and filled your PC when it was cheap, because in the US, RAM prices have already doubled, according toPC World magazine, and they are expected to go higher.
"2001 is easily the worst recession this industry has ever seen,'' says Intel's chief financial officer. The chip giant's quarterly sales plunged 20% to $6.8 billion while profits collapsed, but it could have been worse. TheReuters storyis headlined: Intel's Revenues, Profits Top Analyst Forecasts.
Associated Press has run astoryabout some poor Microsoft techies' problems loading a DNS server, which caused a small number of people a delay in downloading a patch to fix a problem which has so far affected exactly nobody. I can only make a wildly hypothetical guess as to the reason. Perhaps the news about a computer glitch that almost caused several traffic lights to fail in Barcelona didn't arrive in time, and after some tough editorial argument, it was given priority over an in-depth study of the high price of back-up tapes in Bogota. It must have been a slow news day. Luckily the gap was filled when President Bush ran into far more serious difficulties trying to eat a Pretzel.
As a little kid during the 1980s, it seemed to me that the whole world had embraced the likes of Pacman, Frogger, Defender, Centipede and Donkey Kong. And I was hooked on Donkey Kong from the first moment my sticky little digits hit the controls.The game play is simple but superb: you navigate Mario (the chubby Italian plumber with a handlebar moustache) to the top of a building to rescue his girlfriend, Pauline, who has been kidnapped by the evil Donkey Kong after his zoo-break.Mario has to climb over fallen beams, melting steel girders and conveyor belts to reach Pauline. Once you finally reach what appears to be the top of the screen, the mad ape disappears and drags Pauline to level two.This second level always makes my hands go clammy - the moving platforms and melting steel are a challenge for any arcade addict. On to level three, where Donkey Kong throws huge iron beams, instead of chunky wooden barrels, while the fireballs and mud pies are still coming at you thick and fast.I seldom make it to level four without swallowing my bubble gum. Here you have to bring the whole house down by smashing the foundations of the building. Once all the struts are gone, Donkey Kong falls on his head and Mario rescues the lovely Pauline.But just when you thought it was all over, Donkey Kong picks himself up, grabs your girl and puts you through two more levels. Mario has to leap across a maze of elevators and conveyor belts to catch the ape, while avoiding a generous helping of mud pies and fireballs.Donkey Kong was a tremendous breakthrough for Nintendo in 1981 - the characters were developed and used in subsequent games, a feature film and a host of marketing initiatives.More fun and adventure unfolded when Mario teamed up with his brother, Luigi. This double act became Super Mario Bros, starring two humble working class characters that are still a smash hit in the gaming world. The two plumbers also came to life and rescued princess Daisy in the Super Mario Bros film, starring Bob Hoskins and Dennis Hopper.A continuation of the original Donkey Kong was re-released by Nintendo in 1994. Mario sets out once again to rescue Pauline from the evil ape, but this time he has to go through more than a hundred levels to get her. With all these heroics, it must be a total nightmare getting Mario out to mend a leaky pipe on a Sunday.Although there are tonnes of new moves and a variety of levels that make this stand out from the original, the theme of the game is built on the same foundations as the first version. It is great to see an old idea revamped but, in this case, I think the old one is the best.&#183;Harriet Chan is a web developer at Guardian Unlimited
The LampMac deal between Apple and Time magazine may well turn out to be counterproductive. Imagine you are a journalist and you have travelled hundreds or thousands of miles for a story. Alas, you find it has already been given to another publication, possibly a rival, which has already published a "feverishly positive article on the computer", asThe New York Timesput it. "Jobs distributed thousands of copies of Time, like so many promotional fliers, to the throngs at the company's semiannual product festival." [free registration required] Net result: loss of credibility all round.
