A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhy is Huffington Post running a multi-part series to promote the claims of a guy who says he invented email? &gt;&gt; TechdirtMike Masnick:Back in 2012, we wrote about how The Washington Post and some other big name media outlets were claiming that a guy named V.A. Shiva Ayyadurai had "invented email" in 1978. The problem was that it wasn't even close to true and relied on a number of total misconceptions about email, software and copyright law. Ayyadurai and some of his friends have continued to play up the claim that he "invented" email, but it simply was never true, and it's reaching a level that seems truly bizarre. Ayyadurai may have done some interesting things, but his continued false insistence that he invented email is reaching really questionable levels. And, now it's gone absolutely nutty, with the Huffington Post running a multi-part series (up to five separate articles so far -- all done in the past 10 days) all playing up misleading claims saying that Ayyadurai invented email, even though even a basic understanding of the history shows he did not.We have tweaked the headline slightly from the original because UK publications do not enjoy the US First Amendment. Excellent reporting by Masnick.Not Safe For Not Working On &gt;&gt; Dan Kaminsky's BlogThe reality is that cell phone designers have heard for years what a painful experience it is to lose data, and have prioritized the seamless recovery of those bits best they can. It's awful to lose your photos, your emails, your contacts. No, really, major life disruption. Lot of demand to fix that. But in all things there are engineering tradeoffs, and data that is stored in more than one location can be stolen from more than one location. 98% of the time, that's OK, you really don't want to lose photos of your loved ones. You don't care if the pics are stolen, you're just going to post them on Facebook anyway.2% of the time, those pictures weren't for Facebook. 2% of the time, no it's cool, those can go away, you can always take more selfies. Way better to lose the photos than see them all over the Internet. Terrible choice to have to make, but not generally a hard decision.So the game becomes, separate the 98% from the 2%.So, actual concrete advice. Just like browsers have porn mode for the personal consumption of private imagery, cell phones have applications that are significantly less likely to lead to anyone else but your special friends seeing your special bits. I personally advise Wickr, an instant messaging firm that develops secure software for iPhone and Android. What's important about Wickr here isn't just the deep crypto they've implemented, though it's useful too. What's important in this context is that with this code there's just a lot fewer places to steal your data from. Photos and other content sent in Wickr don't get backed up to your desktop, don't get saved in any cloud, and by default get removed from your friend's phone after an amount of time you control. Wickr is of course not the only company supporting what's called "ephemeral messaging"; SnapChat also dramatically reduces the exposure of your private imagery (with the caveat that with SnapChat, unlike Wickr, SnapChat itself gets an unencrypted copy of your imagery and messaging so you have to hope they're not saving anything. Better for national intelligence services, worse for you).Microsoft's assault on cheap Android tablets starts this week &gt;&gt; The VergeMicrosoft promised cheaper Windows tablets with its "Windows 8.1 with Bing" option for manufacturers, and they're now starting to arrive. Toshiba is one of the first to announce a 7in Windows tablet this week at the IFA tradeshow in Berlin, signalling a new price point for mainstream manufacturers to battle the cheap Android alternatives. The new Encore Mini is a 7in (1024 x 600) Windows 8.1 tablet running a quad-core Intel Atom processor with 16GB of internal storage and an SD slot if you need more space. It's a pretty bare-bones machine, but it's priced accordingly: it retails for just $119.99 and is available now.Start from the hypothesis that (really) cheap Android tablets are bought for a few apps and watching sideloaded TV shows. Does this do the job any better?If that hypothesis doesn't suit, what are cheap Android tablets bought to do, and how well would a Windows one replace that?Apple should be more transparent about security &gt;&gt; TechCrunchMatthew Panzarino:In each of these [cited security flaw] cases, Apple fixed vulnerabilities, released support notes or patched bugs. But in almost all cases, and many others over the years, the company was as opaque as possible about explaining the details of security issues, reluctant to admit to them publicly and very unresponsive to independent security researchers. That leads to misunderstandings and FUD about the extent of the problems and the risks involved for users.This needs to change or it will continue to happen.Security problems will continue to happen whatever - what Apple needs is to change the character of its security interaction. The problem is that would make it different from its generally secretive corporate culture. It's almost certainly no accident that Google has excellent user security and an open security culture.Blocking consumer choice: Google's dangerous ban of privacy and security app &gt;&gt; Electronic Frontier FoundationFollowing the previous reports:Why is Disconnect Mobile being targeted? The problem lies in the fact that many online advertisers participate in this sneaky tracking in order to build up reading profiles of users for marketing purposes, whether users have opted in or not. As a result, Disconnect Mobile blocks these types of ads — even though ad-blocking is incidental to its primary goal. Because of this, Google has deemed Disconnect Mobile to be "interfering" with these sneaky third-party services — services its users don't want. In other words, Google appears to be interpreting its rules to mean that "apps that interfere with Google's business model" will be banned, rather than "apps that interfere with user security and privacy." By removing this app from the Play Store Google is putting its users at risk and sending the message that it cares more about its bottom line than its users' security.You can still get it for iOS...Why Hoboken, NJ, is throwing away all of its student laptops &gt;&gt; WNYCJill Barshay:By the time Jerry Crocamo, a computer network engineer, arrived in Hoboken's school system in 2011, every seventh, eighth and ninth grader had a laptop. Each year, a new crop of seventh graders were outfitted. Crocamo's small tech staff was quickly overwhelmed with repairs.We had "half a dozen kids in a day, on a regular basis, bringing laptops down, going 'my books fell on top of it, somebody sat on it, I dropped it,' " said Crocamo.Screens cracked. Batteries died. Keys popped off. Viruses attacked. Crocamo found that teenagers with laptops are still… teenagers."We bought laptops that had reinforced hard-shell cases so that we could try to offset some of the damage these kids were going to do," said Crocamo. "I was pretty impressed with some of the damage they did anyway. Some of the laptops would come back to us completely destroyed."Crocamo's time was also eaten up with theft. Despite the anti-theft tracking software he installed, some laptops were never found. Crocamo had to file police reports and even testify in court.Hoboken school officials were also worried they couldn't control which websites students would visit. Crocamo installed software to block pornography, gaming sites and Facebook. He disabled the built-in web cameras. He even installed software to block students from undoing these controls. But Crocamo says students found forums on the Internet that showed them how to access everything."There is no more determined hacker, so to speak, than a 12-year-old who has a computer," said Crocamo.Two Factor Auth List &gt;&gt; TwofactorauthA handy list to have by you if you're wondering whether a service supports 2FA. (Though that's not the end of the security story, of course.)What I use instead of Google services &gt;&gt; Gabriel Weinberg:Weinberg is the proprietor of search engine DuckDuckGo, but also uses lots of non-Google services (which he cites). He adds:it should be noted (and I may expand in a future post) that Google is fundamentally different than other companies (including other big companies) in terms of how they are embedded in the Internet outside of their consumer services. In other words, even if you opt-out of all Google consumer services, you are likely still being heavily tracked by them through Google Analytics embedded on tens of millions of sites and their external ad networks (AdMob, DoubleClick and AdSense) embedded in millions of apps and sites. (Browser add-onscan help reduce this passive tracking.) The point is though that given how deeply Google is embedded on non-Google sites, switching all your consumer services to another ecosystem is a privacy win. I am significantly more diversified than that, however.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
Australia’s media and arts union has endorsed a proposal that would force internet service providers to block websites which publish material that infringes copyright.The submissionfrom the Media, Entertainment and Arts Alliance,first reported on ZDNet, sets out the case for “extended injunctive relief” against copyright infringers by proposing to allow entities to seek injunctions directly against internet service providers (ISPs) to block websites.“MEAA welcomes the government’s recognition that rights holders are unable to take enforcement action against overseas-based websites and that action needs to be directed at intermediaries. MEAA strongly supports the proposal to allow for no-fault injunctive relief,” it said.“Some ISPs will no doubt argue that consumers will get around the injunction by using proxy sites. However, clearly anything that makes piracy more complicated and time-consuming will reduce its incidence. “The union also argues for “extended authorisation liability” that would penalise ISPs if they failed to take “reasonable steps” to remove information when notified of infringements.The submission says reasonable steps would include slowing down a person’s internet access, but not termination. It also proposes a mechanism to challenge such infringement notices if ISPs choose to take action.Part of the submission addresses the impact of alandmark 2012 high court decisionbetween iiNet and Roadshow Films, which found iiNet had not authorised the infringement of Roadshow’s films that were downloaded by their customers using BitTorrent. The decision has stymied the attempts of film companies to restrict access to filesharing services where dissemination of films and TV shows is widespread.“We believe that the government’s proposals will, with some modifications, provide an opportunity to address the failings of the legislation exposed by the iiNet judgment. While critics of the proposals will argue that it is not possible to eliminate piracy, serious reduction in piracy is a meaningful goal.”The alliance said it rejected the idea of the debate between piracy as a “David and Goliath battle” between individuals and multinationals, and such a characterisation ignored the fact that many creative professionals’ livelihoods were at stake.“Piracy, as the government paper acknowledges, is taking place on a commercial scale through predominantly overseas-based sites. It represents a transfer of wealth away from Australia’s creative workers towards illegal foreign websites and the (albeit passive) ISPs and search engines,” it said.The MEAA has also previously resisted changes to copyright that they say could harm the creative industry.In anearlier submissionin February the union argued against an Australian Law Reform Commission recommendation to introduce a “fair use” exception to copyright lawsimilar in scope to the United States.
A federal judge may hold Microsoft in contempt of court this week over its refusal to give the US government data stored overseas.Judge Loretta Preska, chief of the US district court in New York, gave the company until Friday to comply with an order which could further dent trust in the cloud.Ina statement on TuesdayMicrosoft, citing privacy concerns, told Ars Technica it would continue to defy the court order. “We will not be turning over the email.”US prosecutors who are investigating narcotic trafficking obtained a search warrant last December to access an email account controlled and maintained by Microsoft servers in Dublin, Ireland.The Redmond-based technology company resisted, arguing that emails belong to its customers and that the servers are beyond US jurisdiction, a challenge to the Obama administration’s contention that a company with operations in the US must comply with warrants for data, even if stored abroad.Judge Preska ruled in July that Microsoft must comply because it was a US company and controlled the data. She suspended enforcement of the order pending an appeal by the company.In a procedural wrangle the judgelifted the suspension last week, saying the ruling was not appealable, but added that Microsoft could in fact obtain an appeal if it refused to comply and was found in contempt. “If Microsoft refuses to comply, the court could find Microsoft in contempt, which would be a final order subject to appellate review,”the judge wrote.Microsoft said all sides agreed the case should and would go to appeal. “This is simply about finding the appropriate procedure for that to happen.”The government asked Judge Preska to hold Microsoft in contempt, leading to a “properly appealable final order”.By handing over the data Microsoft would violate Irish law. A graver concern for the company, and other US technology giants, is another blow to public trust in their ability to protect privacy.Several companies, including AT&amp;T Inc, Apple Inc, Cisco Systems Inc and Verizon Communications Inc, have filed court briefs supporting Microsoft. They fear losing billions of dollars in revenue to foreign competitors who could be perceived as better guardians of privacy.The German government has reportedly told Microsoft it will shun data storagefrom US companiesunless the ruling is overturned.In seeking the emails the US government was looking to sidestep legal protections enshrined in the constitution’s fourth amendment, Brad Smith, Microsoft’s general counsel, wrotein the Wall Street Journal. “Timeless values should endure, and digital commons sense should prevail.”Trust in the cloud has been battered by Edward Snowden’s revelations about US surveillance and by the recent hacking ofhundreds of celebrities’ photos.It is unclear which government agency is seeking the emails stored in Dublin because the warrant and all related documents are sealed.
The virtual reality headset market is suddenly booming. Samsung has shown off a new device that turns one of its smartphones into an Oculus Rift-style product that straps to the face, competing with Google’s Cardboard and Sony’s Project Morpheus.The accessory requires the just-launched Galaxy Note 4 for a screen, slotting in and using software developed by Oculus VR, the company bought by Facebook behind the Oculus Rift headset. It renders images on a split screen to simulate a stereoscopic view for the wearer, much like 3D TVs and 3D spectacles in cinemas.Virtual reality headsets immerse the wearer in a visual and, often, auditory environment by matching what is shown to the eyes with the movements of the head. Effective implementation requires rapid feedback between the sensors on the headset to the screens: studies have shown that lags of more than 50 milliseconds between head movement and screen updates can induce sickness. That is why only the Note 4, with its large screen and fast processor, is sufficient.In Samsung’s system the Note 4 will provide the sensors, including a compass, accelerometer and gyroscope for detecting head moment to produce the virtual reality effect.A touchpad on the outside of the headset allows control of the device locked inside, while the smartphone’s rear camera can be used to provide the wearer with a view of the normal world outside. That video passthrough enables augmented reality applications, overlaying a virtual image onto the real world – but could also improve the day-to-day use of the device, letting owners take a break from the virtual world without taking off the cumbersome headset.John Carmack, the former Doom developer, introduced the hardware at Berlin’s IFA event, saying that “it’s been a secret project for too long”.He explained: “I’ve dedicated the last year of my life to making the best mobile VR system, and I’m really proud of what we’ve accomplished. Mobile VR is a hard problem to do well, and we’ve had to use a lot of technology to solve this.” Carmack cited the AMOLED screen of the Gear VR as one of the crucial leaps that made the problem solvable.A dedicated selection of apps built for the headset will be available including Theatre, 360 Player, and Gallery apps. A software development kit for the VR headset will be made available for third-party developers.The Gear VR will compete with Sony’s highly anticipated Project Morpheus for PlayStation 4, as well as Google’s Cardboard accessory for Android smartphones. Google’s Cardboard performs the same function, turning a phone into a virtual reality headset, but can be made by the user following some detailed instructions with some sturdy cardboard and an elastic band, instead of having to buy anything.Samsung and Google are not the first companies to think of turning a smartphone into a wearable virtual reality headset. TheVrase headset does the same thing using iPhones and various Android smartphones, and was successfully funded on Kickstarter in October 2013.•Sony’s Project Morpheus is bringing virtual reality into the mainstream•Oculus Rift - 10 reasons why all eyes are back on virtual reality
Samsung’s new Galaxy Note 4 phablet aims to continue its battle with Apple – and smaller smartphones – by adding fingerprint scanning and handwriting recognition.Alongside the Note 4, the company also revealed the Note Edge phablet, a spin-off from the main line with a curved display that goes right up to – and even around – the right-hand edge of the device.The Note 4 is the follow up to the popularGalaxy Note 3and the latest in the Note series, which Samsung used to pioneer the “phablet” category, expanding the size of the smartphone to a halfway house between a tablet and a phone.“We started the large screen smartphone movement, and we will continue to lead in this area,” said Samsung’s director of marketing, Rory O’Neill.Dell Computer was the first company to offer a 5in Android smartphone with its Streak in 2010, but the category did not see commercial takeoff until Samsung’s first Galaxy Note in September 2011.The Note 4 has a 5.7in quad HD Super AMOLED display, followingthe LG G3’s lead. The large screen will be optimised for stylus use with Samsung’s latest iteration of its S Pen, focused on improved handwriting recognition for taking notes and entering text without a keyboard.It has similar specifications to the Korean firm’s leading smartphone, the Galaxy S5 with a 16-megapixel camera, but the newer Qualcomm Snapdragon 805 quad-core processor, which is expected to prolong battery life through improved efficiency.Internally, the Note Edge is identical to the Note 4, but the new screen, an evolution of 2012’s prototype Youm phone, is unlike anything else on the market. The screen is 160 pixels wider, extending to the edge of the screen and beyond, with the curved display visible even when the phone is held on its side.“After a couple of years of uninspiring flagship phone launches, Samsung today introduced a product that looks to be a genuine innovation,” said Jason Jenkins, director of content at technology site CNET. “The Galaxy Note Edge’s curvy second screen looks really cool, and could be genuinely useful for people [who] treat their phone more like a serious computer than something for the occasional calls, tweets and emails. It’s a crazy idea but it might just be crazy enough to work.”Phablets made up a third of the 279.4m smartphones that shipped in the first quarter of 2014, according to data from research firm Canalys. Smartphones with screens larger than 5in have historically been popular in Asia, but 30% of US smartphones had screens over 5in, Canalys said, while in Europe they comprised 27% of all smartphones shipped in the first quarter.•LG G3 review: the best phablet to date
Sony’s fourth generation smartwatch has ditched the company’s own-brand Android for Google’s new Android Wear, adding GPS and local music playback into the mix.The new Smartwatch 3 joins the early raft of Samsung and LG Android Wear smartwatches, which connect to an Android smartphone or tablet to provide a second screen as well as push notifications and just-in-time information from Google Now.The silicon strap has a metal adjustable clasp for a snug fit, but is also removable for aftermarket straps. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe Smartwatch 3 can do some functions without a smartphone: a GPS chip allows independent location tracking, and an Android Wear Walkman app can play music directly from the device’s 4GB internal storage to Bluetooth headphones. For runners, that means tracking pace and activity while listening to music or podcasts, without a phone bumping along.The Smartwatch 3 module removed from the strap complete with waterproof door protecting the microUSB charging port. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianSony says more functions will be available that use its own apps, including its LifeLog activity tracking software, and the additional GPS; the aim is to differentiate it from rival offerings from Samsung, LG and others.The Smartwatch 3 is waterproof, with a 1.6in square screen and a two-day battery life. The watch module can be removed from the silicon strap, with additional straps including a metal bracelet due later in the year.The Smartwatch 3 has a 1.6in 320x320 resolution screen that is also a fingerprint magnet. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianIt will be available in Autumn for €229 (£182).•Google smartwatches review: LG G Watch, Samsung Gear Live and Android Wear
Sony is pinning its hopes on the promise of two-day battery life and new PlayStation 4 Remote Play for its forthcoming Xperia Z3 and Z3 Compact Android smartphones in its retail war with Apple, Samsung and HTC.The new Z3, the followup to thesix-month old Z2, and the Z3 Compact, which replaces the Z1 Compact released 12 months ago, both feature powerful quad-core processors and waterproof housings. But Sony’s focus for its latest smartphones has been battery life – which is consumers’ biggest problem with this class of device.The Z3 has a metal frame with small wateproofing doors to protect delicate components and nylon corners to absorb impacts when dropped. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The Guardian“The single thing that frustrates consumers the most is that their phone does not last all day,” Calum MacDougall, head of mobile marketing at Sony, told the Guardian. “We’ve really applied ourselves to try and solve that and we don’t believe the tradeoff of having a 2K screen against battery life is the right one.”A “2K” screen has very high pixel density but can drain the battery – with no clear benefit, says MacDougall. “It’s very difficult to discern the difference between a 2K screen and a full HD screen, even up to 8in,” he said in reference to the new LG G3 and OnePlus One, which both have 5.5in screens with quad HD resolution, higher than the full HD 1080p screens used on flagship Sony, Samsung and HTC smartphones.MacDougall says Sony concentrated on energy efficiency for its 5.2in screen, sticking with full HD resolution and reducing its power usage while boosting its brightness to 600 candela, making the Z3 the brightest smartphone available.The Z3 Compact shrinks to a more manageable size, with a 4.6in screen but full specifications from the Z3 condensed into a smaller frame. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe Z3 and Z3 Compact both sport 20.7-megapixel cameras with digital image stabilisation, hi-res audio support, digital noise cancellation and a waterproof exterior that can survive immersion in up to 1.5m of fresh water for 30 minutes.Both also have a digital music engine called DSEE HX, which boosts the quality of compressed music.“It’s an uprating engine that takes lower quality audio files, particularly in the high frequencies, and turns it into near hi-res audio,” said MacDougall explaining that DSEE HX analyses low quality music and boosts certain frequencies, adding back information that was lost during low-quality sampling and compression. The process works much like video upscaling from standard definition to high definition, which many DVD players perform for high definition TVs.The Z3 Compact ditches metal for plastic edges, but is similarly waterproof. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianSony has also built in PS4 Remote Play support – the same as the PS Vita – which allows gamers to connect a DualShock 4 controller to the phone and play games running on the PS4 across either a home Wi-Fi network or an internet connection outside the home.The smartphone or tablet connects to the PS4 via Wi-Fi and the controller via Bluetooth, but Sony has an optional accessory to mount the Z3 on the DualShock joypad with a suction cup. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianSony also introduced the Z3 Tablet Compact, an 8in tablet, to compete with the Samsung Tab S 8.4, Google Nexus 7 and Apple’s iPad mini. It has a full HD screen, eight-megapixel rear camera, is 6.4mm thick, weighs 269g and like the Z3 smartphones and Z2 tablet is waterproof.The Z3 line now includes an 8in tablet, as well as the mid-range M2 Aqua and the entry-level E3 smartphones. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe Z3, Z3 Compact and Z3 Tablet Compact will be available in the autumn in various colours, along with two new smartwatches.•Sony Xperia Z2 review: a great phone but just a bit too big
Sony’s latest SmartBand Talk fitness tracker sports an e-ink display and can take and make phone calls from the wrist.The upgrade to the existing fitness tracking SmartBand monitors activity, steps and sleep using, like myriad other fitness bands, an accelerometer – but also has an altimeter for tracking stair climbs and hikes.SmartBand Talk has a simple button buckle at the back. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianIt has a new curved e-ink screen for checking steps, activity and to see who is calling.The band connects to an Android smartphone via Bluetooth allowing the wearer to pick up and make calls from the wrist through the phone, using a built-in microphone and speaker.Sony SmartBand Talk. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe band responds to voice commands as well as gestures, controlling music playback with a click of the fingers or a tap on the wrist.It is being pitched as an upgraded fitness tracker, with some smartwatch capability, for those who do not want to swap an existing watch for a smartwatch, and simply want to wear a thinner smart band.The band is charged via microUSB, while the port is protected by a waterproof door. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe battery should last five days on a single charge and the SmartBand Talk will cost €159 shipping in the Autumn.•Inside the mind of Derp, a hacking group with a taste for cyber chaos
The largely unsuccessful war to rid YouTube comment sections of spam and trolls has claimed a high profile victim: Swedish gamer Felix “PewDiePie” Kjellberg.The superstar YouTuber, who has more than 30 million subscribers on Google’s online video site, announced to viewers on Friday that he would be permanently disabling comments on his videos.“Comments are my main way to communicate with you bros,” he said. “But I go to the comments and it’s mainly spam, it’s people self-advertising, it’s people trying to provoke. I don’t care about that, I want to see what you bros say, but it gets blocked out. I was hoping YouTube would figure something out, but I’m sick of it. I’m going to turn comments off forever.”PewDiePie tells his subscribers why YouTube comments will be switched offPewDiePie isn’t alone: YouTube now attracts more than a billion viewers a month, yet whatever the content – whether its the new Taylor Swift video or a dog falling off a skateboard into a basket of kittens – the comments section will often be a warzone of insults, links to dodgy sites, and self-promotional tweets directing people to competing videos of dogs skateboarding into kittens.YouTube has attempted, but largely failed, to clean things up. Last September, the siteannounced new measuresto clean up comments, including better moderation tools and a system that moved more popular comments to the top.However, the changes also integrated Google+ functionality into the commenting processes, whichcaused a huge online backlash. Many saw the link to social media invasive and objected to being sequestered into the Google ecosystem. On top of that, spammers and “griefers” simply got more creative, creating explicitasciiart images to clog up comments sections.Anonline petition, signed by 250,000 people demanded that the system be returned to its original format, and many popular YouTubers,including PewDiePie, switched off their comments sections in protest.In November, YouTubepromised to refresh the site once again, adding threaded conversations, formatted discussions and better ascii art detection, but it retained Google+ integration – much to the chagrin of some users. Even Google+ boss Bradley Horowitzquestioned the integration of the services.As an alternative, PewDiePie says he will turn to other platforms such as Twitter and Reddit to reconnect with fans.With 439m video views in July 2014 alone – and nearly 5.9bn lifetime views for his channel – he has the clout to point fans towards whatever social network he likes to discuss the videos. In August,PewDiePie also launched an official iPhone app, which could become the hub for comments from his young, mobile-savvy fan base.But the fact that the poster boy of YouTube stardom has been forced to sever his on-site communications with that many subscribers will be a worry to YouTube – especially because livestreaming service Twitch, which facilitates community chat as an integral element of its service, is drawing many millions of new users a month.YouTube fights back against Spam
ASUS has revealed more details of its long-teased Android smartwatch, the ZenWatch, at the IFA conference in Germany.Running Google’s Android Wear operating system, the watch will sport a 320-pixel-square touchscreen housed in a stainless steel case with a leather strap included in the box. Unlike many smartwatches, the guts of the device are entirely contained within the face, letting users swap out any standard watchband as they see fit.Those innards are essentially the same as most other Android Wear watches announced so far, with the main processor, a 1.2GHz Snapdragon 400 SoC, being shared with Samsung’s Gear Live, and LG’s G Watch and G Watch R. The watch will also come with 512MB of RAM, 4GB of internal storage, and a microphone and heart rate sensor.The heart monitor is claimed to let the watch measure “relaxation levels” using a built in “Wellness” app, providing users with a single relaxation score based on the results, along with tips for how to reduce stress. The app also generates a combination of other stats, including steps taken, calories burned, activity duration, heart rate, and exercise intensity. It will retail at “under £199” before Christmas.Alongside the ZenWatch, ASUS also announced a new entry in its EeePC line, the 2007 range of super-cheap, super-small laptops that kickstarted the “netbook” craze. The EeeBook, a £169.99, 11.6 inch Windows 8.1 laptop with a full-size keyboard, will go on sale in November.•The best smartwatches yet
This week,nude photos of over 100 celebrities were posted onlineby an anonymous source who may have have got them by hacking the Apple iCloud online storage service, or guessing the security questions needed to gain access to each individual account.Either way it has got many people wondering about the safety of their own photos, nude or otherwise, and about whether any snapshot taken on or shared via a digital device can ever be considered secure.So how can you keep your own images away from uninvited viewers? Here are some quick pointers.Switch off automatic cloud backups on your phoneYou may not realise it, but by default, every photo you take on your iPhone is not only stored on the device itself – it is also uploaded to Apple’s iCloud, an online storage infrastructure for digital files.Apple saysthat the service is “built with industry-standard security practices and employs strict policies to protect your data.” However, it’s possible that the hacker who attained the latest batch of celebrity images did so by exploiting a weakness in the Apple system.To turn off automatic iCloud sharing, you need to go into Settings, then iCloud, then scroll down to Photos and slide the option to Off. If you want to disable iCloud entirely, you need to go to the bottom of the menu and hit “delete account”.On Android phones, photos can be backed up to the Google Plus cloud service, but this will be off when you first set up a Google account. However, if you’ve ever allowed automatic storage on any Google device linked to your account, that setting will be remembered on all subsequent hardware. You need to go into the Photos app, select General Settings, then slide Auto-Backup to Off.Create proper passwordsYes, this again. It’s possible that the photos secured during this latest hack were acquired through the brute-force method of repeatedly guessing a target’s password or security questions. If you’re storing data online, the advice from David Emm, part of the research and analysis team at Kaspersky, is to protect it behind a long, unique password that contains letters, numbers and symbols.“It’s a perennial truism that humans are the weakest link in security,” he says. “Even with the most complex hacking attacks, targeting particular verticals or specific companies, the starting point is often delivering a phishing email at somebody or persuading them to click on a link or attachment. It’s humans who are the bridgehead. And when it comes to our personal safety, if we’re using weak passwords, or the same passwords across multiple sites, we’re playing into the hands of would-be attackers.”Consider using “zero knowledge” cloud servicesIf you’re worried about the security of mainstream cloud storage services, consider using a “zero knowledge” solution like Wuala, Tresorit or Spider Oak. These sites encrypt all your data so it’s almost impossible for other people to view it – and importantly, the encryption happens locally on your machine, so even the staff at the company can’t access it or know your password.Users may still have to exercise caution when sharing files stored on these services, however. Earlier this year, researchers at John Hopkins Universitypublished a reportsuggesting that data could still be vulnerable if shared over the cloud, rather than downloaded and sent directly in encrypted form to another user.Speaking to Network Worldrecently, Spider Oak said that it advises customers to use its desktop app to share files rather than its web portal.Encrypt photos on your own hard drivesIf you’ve taken sensitive photos and want to keep hold of them, but are worried about what would happen if your laptop, tablet of smart phone is stolen, encrypting the files yourself is a good idea. “You can use Bitlocker, Microsoft’s built-in solution [The Mac equivalent is FileVault], or other encryption mechanisms,” says Emm. “We provide one ourselves, as do other data security providers. You can encrypt the whole drive or create specific repositories to hold sensitive data; you can then back it up to a USB drive so even if someone were to gain access to your computer, they couldn’t get at this data.”There are plenty of dedicated encryption apps. Whether you go for a priced solution like Folder Lock or a free open source version like DiskCryptor, always ensure that the option you select uses the 256-bit Advanced Encryption Standard (AES).Protecting your photos on FacebookIf you don’t want everyone on the planet to see the photos you post on Facebook you need to adjust the privacy settings. Log on to your account, then click on the padlock icon in the top righthand corner and select “who can see my stuff?” Click on that, and you’ll see and option titled “who can see my future posts?” Now choose “Friends” on the pulldown menu.You can also customise settings every time you upload a new photo or album. In the “Update Status” window just to the left of the Post button, you can use the pulldown menu to select from Friends, Only me, or a custom privacy setting.Finally, it’s worth going to the arrow menu in the top right of the Facebook window, selecting Settings &gt; Security and then switching on Login Notifications, which tell you when someone is trying to access your account from an unknown browser, and Login Approvals which require you to enter a security code every time you access your account from a new device. This is also known as two-factor authentication, and is a good idea for other services such as Twitter and Dropbox.Use private messaging apps to send sensitive photos from your smartphoneYou’ve probably heard of Snapchat, the smartphone app that allows you to set a time limit on the photos you send to friends so that they erase automatically. There have beenconcerns over how secure these images arebut there are other private messaging apps that claim to protect both messages and images, including Cyber Dust and Gryphn. These services both encrypt messages and files before sending, offer self-destruct capabilities on content, and claim to disable screen capture facilities on receiving handsets.Consider only sharing photos directlyIf there’s someone you want to share photos with, but are worried about storing them online or sending them via email, Instagram, Snapchat or similar, the best way is transferring them from device to device, perhaps via a USB stick. “This way the data goes literally from hand to hand,” says Emm. “And if you’re using an encrypted format and the stick drops out of your bag in a cafe, someone won’t be able to get at that data.”Ultimately, as soon as your photos pass through the internet they are vulnerable to some extent – whether that means enclosing them in a text, or storing them online. “It’s always a good idea to think before you share,” says Emm. “Consider how embarrassed you would be if the provider was hacked or your content leaked. If it really is sensitive it’s best to exclude it from cloud services altogether.”Apple blames very targeted attack for hack of nude celebrity pictures
There is a war going on in video games right now. Not on the screen for once, but on forums and in the comments sections of specialist games news sites like Kotaku and Polygon. It is a war between self-identifying “gamers” and video game critics. And like most wars it is chaotic, damaging and depressing.It has been brewing for years, and for a number of reasons. The key is that over the last decade, games have progressed from being seen as a geeky pastime for adolescent boys, to being understood and appreciated as a complex andsignificant artform. When I started writing about these things in 1995, video game journalism was still in its infancy – most magazines were like a cross between fanzines and catalogues; they guided fans toward the games they should purchase. They often did this with style and humour, but they knew their audience – predominantly young males. Everyone knew where they stood.But then two things happened. The rise of the internet brought digital distribution and brand new communication channels. Suddenly, lone game designers with subjective and offbeat ideas were able to reach a global audience by making their titles available online. And the rise of blogging culture meant that new and idiosyncratic voices could be heard. Games magazines no longer had a stranglehold on the dissemination of games criticism. Add in the arrival of online forums and discussion sites, and the birth of social media, and we had a new age in which critics, communities and developers were engaging with each other much more closely. Looking back, that was a powder keg waiting for a match.The other thing was the rise of smartphones. These convenient devices made games accessible to a whole group of people who had never really thought about them before. Suddenly, we had Angry Birds selling millions of downloads, and the wider media industry began to notice the phenomenon. In the past, games could be marginalised – they didn’t matter because they were for teenage boys, and teenage boys didn’t read newspapers, watch that much TV or participate in academic discussion. But in the 2000s we were reaching a stage when everyone was getting interested in interactive entertainment and its ramifications.Then Nintendo released Wii, we had the fascinating and violent Grand Theft Auto series, and games were the big subject, rich with interest and possibilities. The indie games scene grew; fostered by the inclusion of titles like Braid and World of Goo on mainstream consoles. Interesting, often challenging voices like Jonathan Blow and Phil Fish entered the industry. They didn’t talk like the media-trained producers from the big game publishers. They shouted at and insulted people online. They provided excellent headlines for the growing number of 24hr non-stop internet video game news sites like IGN, Gamespot and Games Radar.Enter the criticsWith mainstream interest and contrasting voices, with idiosyncratic, challenging games on one side and massively successful brands like GTA and Call of Duty on the other, cultural critics began to take an interest in games and game-makers. The people who used to study movies and music for their sociopolitical significance turned their attention to games. Suddenly, there were cultural critics like Anita Sarkeesian applying an analytical lens to game tropes and conventions – and their ideas chimed with a new generation of games critics who wanted to investigate games in new ways.But somewhere along the line, this excitement with the meaning and potential of games as an artform started to define itself against the gamer community – or at least that’s what gamers felt. Mainstream video game titles were derided for their sexism and thuggery, players were criticised for endorsing the twisted world views of conventional shooters and hack-’em-ups. Gamers were thinking: hang on, how did we become the enemy here?The last fortnight has seen that powder keg explode. A spiteful blogpost by the ex-lover of indie games developer Zoe Quinn, and the launch of the latest Tropes vs Women video by Sarkeesian, which analyses the sexist depiction of women in some games, have led to reams of appalling threats and abuse online. Both women have feared for their safety. Games writers have been seen to close ranks and defend the developers, criticising the gamer community, which has responded by huddling around the #gamergate hashtag on Twitter. Questions have been asked about the close relationship between development studios and games critics – sometimes to a ludicrous extent, with charts and diagrams posted online showing the connections between key figures.The upshot: a significant minority of game players do not trust a significant number of games writers. And some games writers have suggested that the term ‘gamer’ is a dated anachronism, no longer applicable to the industry. Games are bigger than this community now. And naturally, the community is angry. They see conflicts of interest and corruption in every tweet and conversation between journalists and developers; in every positive preview. They want transparency in the games press. They are tired of being dictated to by writers they refer to as social justice warriors, interested more in the issues of representation and sociocultural meaning in games and game development, then the content itself. Now we have a schism and it has become destructive. Game journalists vs gamers.The mistakes behind the hateThe problem at the centre of it all is a lack of understanding. These groups used to be together, united against the aggressive ignorance of mainstream culture. When US lawyer Jack Thompson tried to get violent games banned, when British tabloids ran scare stories on the effects of titles like Doom and GTA, games communities and journalists were united in their anger and dismay. But now there is no common enemy. Culture has largely opened to games, and that sense of outsider conflict has turned in on itself.The self-identifying gamers are largely wrong about the games press. Although ethical breaches no doubt happen, it isn’t a hive of corruption. Games writers aren’t getting rich on backhanders from games publishers; they’re poorly paid, work long hours and largely are in this for passion, not to make a quick buck through sinister channels.There are issues with the way journalists and game publishers interact; garnering exclusive or early access to forthcoming titles tacitly creates a bond between critic and provider that can make fair appraisal more difficult. Not impossible, just difficult. As a games writer, you have relationships with game publishers and developers – that’s how entertainment journalism works. But you need to be strong enough to put those aside when you are assessing a new game for your readers. That is the skill of it. That is where the job really lies. But it also has to be OK to be passionate and excited about games. There is no objectivity in art.And it’s not like these issues are exclusive to games. In the movie and music press, there are the same potential conflicts – the news sources are funded via advertising placed by the very companies that the journalists are reporting on. Music and movie journalists go on sponsored press trips; they forge relationships with bands, labels, actors, directors, and studios. They have to. This is how human beings function – through personal contact. In a well-run media organisation, advertising and editorial are separated, everyone understands the boundaries. But often, from the outside, these interconnections can be read as subjectivity, as taint, and in the cauldron of the online forum, theories and accusations quickly gather momentum. If one person says it online it’s a rumour, if 100 say it, it must be true. This is a dangerous fallacy.In return, games journalists have grown distrustful of self-identifying gamers. The wretched miscreants that swamp Quinn, Sarkeesian and others with vile threats every time they post a video, a story or a tweet, have come to symbolise community. But this isn’t strictly fair. There are lots of gamers who are angered and bewildered by how some game sites cover the industry and its superstars; they feel they have legitimate questions about how games journalism functions. They are invested in this business and they have a right to their scepticism. It turns out, lumping them in with the rabble who harass women developers and critics has added to the opprobrium.The perceived power of social justiceFor me, the problem with the gamer community that has aligned around the #gamergate hash tag is that it doesn’t seem to know what it wants or what it fears – or at least, the problem is that what it fears isn’t going to happen. There’s a sense that social justice warriors are going to “ruin games”. But how? This is a tiny subset of writers and developers sharing a left-leaning ideology – they are big on Twitter, but they are not going to convince Activision, EA, Capcom or any other multinational games corporations to stop making games that conflict with their beliefs.The games industry is a global, multi-billion dollar giant, fuelled by money, not dogma. There will be no social justice revolution – just as the rise of feminist film criticism in the 70s and the explosion of indie cinema in the 80s did not stop Hollywood from making blockbuster sexist action flicks.And ultimately, those members of the gaming community who distrust the games press, have a really wonderful option: make the alternative. Instead of constructing strange conspiracy theories and flooding games sites with vitriolic comments, withdraw entirely. Make your own game sites. It has never been easier – or more viable. Because however much you mistrust them, the big gaming sites serve the needs of millions of gamers who don’t worry about the relationships between the press and the publishers – who just want approachable reviews, cool videos and funny list features; that’stheirchoice. They can’t be denied or derided either. So the best, most positive option, is to create something else.I have found a lot of the actions of self-confessed hardcore gamers horrendous, upsetting and unjustifiable over the past two weeks. I have mocked and criticised the excesses – and I was happy to commission Jenn Frank’s piece on the disgusting excesses of anti-social behaviour in some quarters of the games community. But I have come to understand that the gamers suspicious of the games press cannot be classed together in one homogenous group – just as games journalists cannot. Objectification is never the answer. Which is why #gamergate has become so problematic.I just wish things could go back to normal. I don’t have a problem with the term “gamer” – to me it signifies what “film buff” or “bookworm” does – someone who is heavily invested in the medium. I have a problem with those gamers who want to shut out different voices and new forms of design; I have a problem with gamers who deny that this industry needs to improve its representation - in terms of race, gender and sexuality. I don’t have a problem with gamers who feel marginalised and frustrated because, really, that’s how I grew up – alone and geeky at senior school, unable to fit in with the fads and fashions and pervading cultures of the day. It is crappy not to be heard.Every writer and critic must have the freedom of press; everyone must have the freedom of expression – as long as no one is targeted and harassed in the process. It is possible to disagree without abuse. These are simple ground rules. They are achievable. I entered games writing at a time when journalists and readers were a club, with in-jokes and trust and kinship. Everybody still loves games, right? Let’s concentrate on that.•How to attack a woman who works in video games
Some time on Saturday afternoon, I pulled up outside a farm near Bletchley forElectromagnetic Field– a festival for coders,makers, hackers and tech heads.My final approach was flanked by two drones overhead (security maybe?) while the other side of the fence was home to geodesic domes, marquees and ridge tents, all functionally decorated with solar cells, LED string and the occasional antenna. I had a feeling that if society collapsed and the geeks did in fact inherit the earth, this was theirBartertown.I switched on my own two portable Wi-Fi hotspots – onepirateboxand a more socially acceptableLibrary Box. I wore my Local Area Networks with pride and walked into the Electromagnetic Field.Gamers at EMF campPhotograph: flickrIt was a fascinating cross-section of wellie-wearing, seasoned festival-goers, tweedy academics, small children and older folk on souped-up mobility scooters. Somewhere among them was the bearded man I sought,@JontyWareing, who had brought all of this together.En route to a talk, I met its speaker Hannah Nicklin, whose PhD explored how games influence theatre as a way to bring down capitalism. Many in the audience had been drawn in by the title – “Where Games Break” – which was about how games play with systems and affect our lives. She let that slip on stage and if there was a cred-o-meter in the wings you would have heard an audible “ding!” as it hit the top.Outside, among the screengazers, I narrowly avoided being run over by a man driving a huge yellow duck and then bumped into Tom Watson MP, off to a Doctor Who screening with his son, who was showing off a glowing robot circuit board he had just soldered.Every delegate hadthe most advanced conference badge you’ll ever see. Once registered, the ‘TiLDA MKe’ let visitors browse an automatically updated schedule, pinged notifications of relevant sessions and had a built-in torch, rain alarm and two games. I’ll never look at conference badges in the same way again. Somewhere a digital totem was delivering amazing internet. I could almost smell the bandwidth.Not your normal festival wifi#emfcamppic.twitter.com/dLVvvMHo8o&mdash; Christian Payne (@Documentally)August 30, 2014Later on – still without @Jonty – I went looking for an analogue real ale, wandering in the LED-speckled darkness where constant digital stimuli were amplified by enthusiastic geeks. A pedal-powered, cocktail-mixing robot was equipped with a real-timeInternational Space Station tracker.Further along I met a group of people hammering red hot metal in a blacksmithing workshop. Makers had assembled a giant illuminated robotic eye that followed you as you went past; people used lasers and 3D printers to create things; in a retro gaming arcade a dad taught his son how to code Basic with a Commodore 64; a man cooked sausages in the dark outside his tent, where a Sinclair C5 was also parked.Still without @Jonty and my real ale, I saw a few barrels stacked up in a form that indicated it was a festival bar. Near the pumps was what looked like an oversized receipt printer that was churning out hard copies of all tweets using the hashtag #EMFcamp.The bar conversation was intensely nerdy: C++ and D-Star converters. I listened for a conversation I could handle and honed in on a stray whinger, a guy complaining that his festival badge couldn’t check the weather.“Let me get this straight,” I said. “You’re in a field with a 500MB internet connection playing Tetris on your name badge while drinking a pint of ale you ordered via Twitter?”“When you put it like that,” he smiled, “it’s not all bad”.I followed the music and found myself at the main stage forThe 55th Flotillaand2XAA on his Gameboy, then I danced toChiptuneand controlled the hacked laser visuals with my phone. There was a certain drug-free love in the air. All these people had been drawn here to celebrate and share their digitally infused culture.I did find @Jonty in the end, as a result of a snippet of radio chatter as I walked past a festival steward. The message crackled something about a bitcoin issue that needed resolving. It was @Jonty: fixing stuff.Stood in the middle of a field near@emfcampStage A. Behind me a man is playing a ZX Spectrum Keytar with ...https://t.co/0UYHPPOYW9&mdash; Jonty Wareing (@jonty)August 29, 2014EMFCamp, @Jonty explained, has tripled in size since 2012. Burning Man had been going for eight years when it reached 1,000 people; EMFCamp has been running for two years and is already at 1,000.@Jonty worried that it was growing too fast and we talked about open-source badge technology and the logistics of getting bandwidth and power to a field. As we talked a sci-fi film was being made behind me, some people were playing laser tag in a field nearby and a drone flew overhead. I stayed at EMFCamp just long enough to get hooked and it felt like the seed of the UK’s ownArduino-powered Burning Man.•How activity trackers remove our rights to our most intimate data
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamUpdate to celebrity photo investigation &gt;&gt; AppleAfter more than 40 hours of investigation, we have discovered that certain celebrity accounts were compromised by a very targeted attack on user names, passwords and security questions, a practice that has become all too common on the Internet. None of the cases we have investigated has resulted from any breach in any of Apple's systems including iCloud® or Find my iPhone. We are continuing to work with law enforcement to help identify the criminals involved.To protect against this type of attack, we advise all users to always use a strong password and enable two-step verification.So the "iBrute" attack on Find my iPhone wasn't involved. In hacking cases, it's usually best to start with the least complex explanation - social engineering and password hacks - than complex attacks.Lessons from the celebrity iCloud photo breach &gt;&gt; American Civil Liberties UnionChris Soghoian:Apple, Google and the other big tech companies should acknowledge that millions of their customers regularly use their products to engage in sensitive, intimate activities. These companies can and should offer a "private photo" option for sensitive photos that prevents them from being uploaded to the cloud. More importantly, they should treat their customers like grownups and educate them about how they can use their products and services to engage in intimate activities, as safely as possible.Isn't it called "Snapchat"?Chart: how people use mobile payments &gt;&gt; StatistaThe lack of NFC support in current generation iPhones has likely hindered a wider adoption of NFC by both merchants and consumers, as data published by Nielsen suggests. Only 37% of mobile payment users in the U.S. have used their smartphone to pay for goods or services using NFC, while 45% have made payments by presenting a barcode on their phone's screen for the cashier to scan.If Apple decides to include NFC in its future devices however, that could really be a breakthrough for NFC and mobile payments in general. Considering Apple's solvent clientele and the fact that the company has reportedly reached deals with all three major credit card companies, it will be hard for merchants not to adopt whatever payment system Apple might present next week."It's as secure as your iCloud account!""Um.. I'll pay with cash, thanks."An inside look at Anonymous, the radical hacking collective &gt;&gt; New YorkerDavid Kushner:One day in 2008, Doyon and Commander Adama met at the P.L.F.'s basement apartment in Cambridge. Adama showed Doyon the Web site of the Epilepsy Foundation, on which a link, instead of leading to a discussion forum, triggered a series of flashing colored lights. Some epileptics are sensitive to strobes; out of sheer malice, someone was trying to induce seizures in innocent people. There had been at least one victim already.Doyon was incensed. He asked Adama who would do such a thing."Ever hear of a group called Anonymous?" Adama said.A long read. Set aside some time.Android game console maker Ouya in sale talks with Chinese internet giants, others &gt;&gt; Re/codeOuya, the maker of a low-cost Android-based gaming console of the same name, has been engaged in preliminary acquisition talks with multiple big players in China, as well as a few here in the U.S., according to several sources close to the situation.Sources said the talks are early, but that the company considers it one of its more likely options rather than raising more money. There are no current offers on the table, said sources, but the talks are proceeding.The companies that Ouya has had discussions with include Xiaomi, Tencent and other in China and there has also been some engagement with Google and Amazon.More likely an acqui-hire than a buy for the consoles. Remember Ouya consoles? Anyway.'Holy Grail' battery scientist explains incredible breakthrough &gt;&gt; ForbesGordon Kelly on the development by Yi Cui of Stanford University of a lithium battery with a pure lithium (rather than silicon or graphite) anode, which could quadruple capacity:Pure lithium anode batteries have been made before, just not with the same success. Until now the best lithium-anode batteries have carried a 96% 'Coulombic efficiency' rating which means they lose 4% of their capacity with every charge as the lithium anode eats away the lithium electrolyte. They die after 25 full charging cycles.Cui's team has raised this efficiency to 99%, taking the charge cycles up to 100. Still, that's not enough for a commercial product. "The difference between 99 percent and 96 percent, in battery terms, is huge but the threshold for commercial viability is 99.9%," says Cui. "While we're not quite to that 99.9% threshold, we're close."How Cui and his researchers are solving this is by building 'nanospheres' – protective layers of interconnected carbon domes on top of the pure lithium anode. Lithium expands almost infinitely while charging, stretching out in wild hair-like structures which can warp, break or even cause the battery to explode.The nanospheres stem this.Commercial development: maybe five years.Eve &gt;&gt; elgato.comOnce known for its digital-TV-on-the-Mac recording system, the German company is now getting into HomeKit-connected gear:The upcoming range of Eve senses gathers data on air quality, temperature, humidity, air pressure, energy and water consumption and more. Gain insights that help you improve your comfort, and make your home a smarter place.Is it anything more than vanity metrics for the home, though?How Facebook's newest teen engineer supported his family with apps until cashing in &gt;&gt; GIgaomCarmel DeAmicis :getting to the top of the app store wasn't just a fun goal for Sayman. It was a matter of keeping him and his family afloat financially.Since the age of 13, Sayman had been supporting his parents and his sister with profits he made from prior apps. The recession hit the Saymans hard, and when their home was foreclosed upon Michael bought the family a smaller townhouse to live in. In Florida, the economy hasn't rebounded quite as quickly as it has in Silicon Valley, and Sayman's parents struggled to keep their local business — a chicken restaurant — profitable. When I spoke with Michael's mother Cristina back in April, she told me, "Sometimes I'm embarrassed to say everything Michael did for us. It's like he became the father of the family. It's crazy."The financial struggles didn't stop then. Even as Facebook was flying Sayman out to tour the campus and speak at conferences, he still owed tuition to his private high school, and the program wouldn't give him his graduation certificate without it.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
How many people have looked at the full, gruesome video of James Foley’s murder, or the pictures of Jennifer Lawrence and scores of other celebrities that were put online earlier this week?The simple answer is: nobody knows. But you can make some estimates. And they run into millions. The murder of Foley was first posted to Google’s YouTube, and pictures from it to Twitter. Both organisations moved quickly to delete the full video (Google has allowed the video without its ending to remain online if it has “news context”) while Twitter suspended accounts that tweeted pictures as quickly as it could.Neither organisation would say how many views were made, or accounts suspended.However, given thatGoogle handles about 6bn searches per day, one can guess at how many people are trying to look at something at any time based on data fromGoogle Trends.This doesn’t give absolute numbers for searches – only a relative value between 0 and 100. But we can use Facebook as a point of reference.Surprising though it may sound, lots of people type “Facebook” into Google in order to go to the page. According to data collected by Hitwise in August, around 3.7% of traffic from Google goes to Facebook. Out of 6bn searches per day, that’s around 222 million people going to Facebook.But many people will have searched for something else and ended up on Facebook. Let’s assume only 1 in 10 people actually Googled “Facebook” and followed the link there.That means, on most days, 22 million people type “Facebook” and go to Facebook. But in Google Trends, that search unhelpfully dwarfs almost all others. Luckily, “Google” is also a popular search, getting about 40% as many as “Facebook”; so 8.9m per day.Now we can make some estimates. On 20 August, the day after IS released its gruesome video, for every 95 searches for “google” there were 11 for “james foley”, and two for “james foley video”.Assume all of those sought out the video and you get 1.2m views. Assume only those searching with “james foley video” viewed it and the figure is 190,000.How about Jennier Lawrence? Searches for her rocketed by a factor of 50 on Monday, when the Google: “Jennifer Lawrence” search ratio was 92:7 – which suggests, on the basis of 8.9m “Google” searches, that 700,000 people suddenly sought out Jennifer Lawrence. (There aren’t any appreciable searches for “Jennifer Lawrence pics”, “J-Law pics”, “Jlaw pics” or similar.)Remember, though, we made the assumption that only 1 in 10 Facebook visits came from a search for “Facebook”. Take that away, and it would mean between 1.9m and 12m views of the James Foley killing, and 7m views of Jennifer Lawrence pictures. The latter doesn’t include those who might have looked at them on file-sharing sites or 4chan – but the number of users there is comparatively small compared to the 2.7 billion on the whole internet.
Audio company Sonos, makers ofthe popular wireless music system, is simplifying its product and effectively reducing the price by £40 after ditching the need for its wireless “bridge” dongle.Facing stuff competition in home audio devices from Pure, LG and Samsung, Sonos has redeveloped its software so that it can connect directly to existing home wireless networks, rather than using a “bridge”.Sonos is also working on high resolution audio, the company told the Guardian, to deliver professional quality audio with file sizes as much as 34 times the size of a typical MP3 track.The Sonos bridge will still be available as a Wi-Fi signal booster, with a more powerful version called “boost” for homes that suffer badly from Wi-Fi blackspots.“We’ve spent the last couple of years trying to figure out if we could deliver rock solid wireless experience through software,” explained Patrick Spence, Sonos’s chief commercial officer. “The vast majority of people can now just get started with a speaker on their existing wireless, which is easier, faster and cheaper.”Those with a Sonos home cinema set up, using five speakers and asubwooferin a lounge or living room for instance, will still require a Sonos bridge connected to their router, due to the demands of data rate and signal strength over Wi-Fi, in order to maintain sync with a TV.Pure’s Jongo multiroom audio setupboasts microsecond timing of audio, claiming better sound quality than Sonos at a lower cost, while LG and Samsung recently entered the space with their own wireless music systems. Audio technology company DTS – which creates standards for cinema, audio and DVDs among others – also became a competitor with itsPlay-Fi systemrecently.‘Big technical challenge’As part of Sonos’s pursuit of music streaming, it has recently been looking at high resolution 24-bit music; the kind that Neil Young’s Pono Player andLinn records have been pushingabout recently.“It’s a big technical challenge for us, but it’s one we’ve definitely been working on,” explained Spence. “We’re looking at overcoming the limitations of streaming 24-bit in the home, as there seems to be a lot of momentum around it at the moment, so stay tuned.”Hi-res audio files, also known as studio master tracks, are much larger than the highly compressed MP3 and AAC files commonly streamed and downloaded from Spotify, iTunes, Google Play and Amazon. Albums of studio master tracks can take up between 2GB and 5GB of space, while MP3s typically take up 5MB per track.The increased file size and subsequent data rate required to stream hi-res music over a Wi-Fi network causes issues for bandwidth and technology.But Spence is positive about Young’s moves. “Anything anyone’s doing to help bring high quality music listening back is a great thing,” he said.•Sonos Play:1 review - a little speaker with a big sound at a small(er) price•Sonos Sub review – new wireless subwoofer might change the way you listen to your music• Sonos Playbar soundbar review - boosted TV and movie sound without the wires
UK tech entrepreneurs are calling for tax breaks in return for volunteering to teach code, along with creating a legal framework for bitcoin and more investment for teachers grappling with the new computing curriculum - all part of an ambitious tech manifesto launched on Wednesday.More than 150 entrepreneurs and investors have signed up to the non-partisan 24-pointStartup Manifesto, which was published by theCoadeccoalition that is sponsored by Google, TechHub, iHorizon and Intuit, and urges policymakers to prioritise investment in superfast internet connectivity, and make it easier for entrepreneurs to hire international talent, including streamlining visas for entrepreneurs and graduates.Written by Guy Levin, a former economic advisor to George Osborne, it also urges that laws and regulations need to be fit for purpose, including allocating more resources to the Information Commissioner’s Office which has struggled to keep up with regulatory challenges of consumer data protection in the internet era.The manifesto also demands a commitment to keep the successful Government Digital Service, which has simplified and relaunched many online government services, and proposed more data sharing resources and standards for online identity.GDS, along with coding in schools and open data, are good examples of important initiatives from both Labour and coalition governments, said investor Saul Klein of Index Ventures. “The potential of technology policy in Whitehall is exemplified by GDS, and that kind of open approach to technology can help the industry and the government address challenges through a transformative, open dialogue,” he said.The manifesto calls for more resources to support the Information Commissioner’s Office, referring to its annual report published in July in which the commissioner Christopher Graham protests about budget cuts. “Our grant-in-aid from the Ministry of Justice, which has been cut in every year since I became Information Commissioner in 2009, is simply not adequate for us to do the work we could and should be doing to promote greater efficiency and accountability in the public service.”“Neither government nor companies can be responsible for how information is managed. Citizens need to be able to make those decisions themselves, but the laws around data regulation have improved vastly even from five years ago,” said Klein. “Technology moves very quickly, and regulation necessarily moves slowly, and needs to so that it can be well thought out and long-lasting - that will be much better with high level engagement between policy makers, politicians and technologists.”The next government should also do more to help retrain those made redundant by disruptive technology.“The state is also rightly there to create an environment where people and businesses can adapt to change. This should include help those who are negatively affected by innovation, for example people whose jobs are made redundant by automation – including through opportunities for retraining and upskilling,” it states.Labour’s business secretary, Chuka Umunna MP, welcomed the manifesto. “We want to see more people starting up, leading and working in business and the creation of high-skilled, better-paid jobs,” he said. “Britain’s burgeoning digital economy has a huge role to play in meeting both of these challenges, and that’s why Coadec’s manifesto is right to emphasise the importance of digital startups as well as the need to foster digital skills.”Sarah Wood, COO of Unruly Media, said she was inspired to sign up because the manifesto is both wide-ranging but actionable and ambitious. “London has capital, creativity, technologists, talent, great education and government all in close proximity, and all willing to engage. But access to talent is the biggest issue for most technology startups, and holds back growth, not just because of the difficulties recruiting overseas talent but in using that expertise to train your own team,” she said.“Government needs to be literate in technology so that they can effectively support the tech industry. The digital economy is the new economy, and the government itself needs to be skilled up so that the country can properly take advantage of all the opportunities.”•We need long-sighted and informed politicians in the technology debate
A gang of hackers who collected and traded nude pictures of female celebrities by routinely breaking into Apple's iCloud system were the source of private photographs leaked online, new evidence shows.Private photos and videos of more than 100 mostly female American and British stars werereleased on the internet on Mondayfrom the 4chan website, sparking condemnation from the Oscar-winner Jennifer Lawrence and other actors including Kirsten Dunst, Kate Upton and Briton Jessica Brown Findlay.Chatroom transcripts show that "OriginalGuy", a member of the gang who has now gone on the run, boasted that the hacking of accounts belonging to Lawrence and others "is the result of several months of long and hard work" and that "several people were in on it".Other chatroom transcripts show that the gang had offered nude pictures of female celebrities and athletes for sale, and others offered to "rip" the iCloud backup accounts containing photos for anyone once they were given their user name and password. The iCloud backups come from the stars' iPhones, which automatically store photos online for up to 30 days or until they are downloaded.The revelation comes as the FBI and Apple started investigating the security breach, the most serious ever to affect the iPhone maker and a serious blow to its efforts to push new devices expected to incorporate mobile payment functions next week.There are more than 800 million iCloud accounts globally – but the chatroom transcripts suggest there is now a growing semi-professional trade in "ripping" iCloud accounts, posing a serious problem for Apple's security profile.The FBI said it was "aware" of the hacking allegations and was "addressing the matter". Apple said in a statement that it was outraged by the hack andimmediately mobilised engineers to discover the source. "After more than 40 hours of investigation, we have discovered that certain celebrity accounts were compromised by a very targeted attack on user names, passwords and security questions, a practice that has become all too common on the internet," the company said."None of the cases we have investigated has resulted from any breach in any of Apple's systems including iCloud or Find my iPhone. We are continuing to work with law enforcement to help identify the criminals involved."The gang seems to have been gathering and swapping pictures collected from celebrities' backups for years.On 26&nbsp;August, one poster on AnonIB, an anonymous pornographic image sharing site, claimed to have secured a "major win" for hackers looking for nude pictures of Lawrence. He wrote: "I mean explicit vids and pics, see for yourself/don't have it tho, but everyone says its legit."Now the poster has gone on the run, after posting a brief message asking for bitcoin donations, which are untraceable. The release of the photos appears to have been unplanned and to have thrown the gang into disarray, with some trying to cash in by offering photos for bitcoins on public sites such as 4chan, while others have gone further underground.Jonathan Zdziarski, an independent security researcher, said he has tracked the Bitcoin address used to solicit donations for some of the celebrity pictures and found it belongs to the owner of a Dutch photo-hosting site – which he says is also distributing an "original version" of the pictures released earlier this week.The photos fell into the hands of hackers even though Apple encrypts iCloud backups using the four-digit code users create when setting up their device.The backups can be downloaded and cracked offline once a hacker has gained access to the user's account – which in the current cases was achieved by answering security questions on Apple's password reset system, such as "Where did your parents meet?", using publicly available information.The gang appears to have operated in a similar way to child abuse rings, which are closed to newcomers unless they can provide "new" photos for the rest to share.One user on the Reddit website said: "These guys conduct individual attacks on celebs through a mix of social engineering" – whereby hackers pose as support staff or send official-looking emails to gather information – "and, especially for more high-profile targets, straight-up hacking."The long-running attempts to break into high-profile users' accounts could explain how photos from as long ago as December 2011 – two months after Apple launched iCloud – could appear in the lists of files held by some group members.Another transcript seen by the Guardian includes a user claiming to "have nudes of possibly the hottest athlete there is", while another user says: "I have a confirmed iCloud email of a celebrity, was wondering if someone could help crack and rip it."The existence of the group and its obsessive pursuit of stars' personal photos points to the growing risk from the use of "cloud" systems with smartphones.Martin Garbus, a New York trial lawyer who over the years has represented actors Al Pacino, Sean Connery, Robert Redford and others, said on Tuesday  that worried clients had approached him about security issues."Nothing is safe on the internet, period," he told Reuters. "Everything on your iPhone, whether it be phone calls, message texts, pictures, is all available." He said he was not surprised by the hacking because he said he has seen it in the past. "There are just so many different ways that one's privacy can be invaded."
Apple has denied that faults in its systems were responsible for what may bethe largest celebrity privacy breachin history.The company has been fighting off critics since Sunday when images of more than 100 well-known actors and singers, includingRihanna and Jennifer Lawrence, were posted on the 4chan website.The breach was initially linked to Apple’s cloud storage service iCloud and its Find My iPhone application.In a statement the company said it was “outraged” by the news and “immediately mobilized Apple’s engineers to discover the source”.“After more than 40 hours of investigation, we have discovered that certain celebrity accounts were compromised by a very targeted attack on user names, passwords and security questions, a practice that has become all too common on the internet. None of the cases we have investigated has resulted from any breach in any of Apple’s systems including iCloud or Find my iPhone. We are continuing to work with law enforcement to help identify the criminals involved,” said Apple.The breach has become a PR nightmare for Apple. Shortly after the hack was made public actress Kirsten Dunst Tweeted: “Thank you iCloud” followed by the emoji for pizza and a pile of shit.It comes as Apple prepares tounveil its latest iPhoneand, possibly, a new smart watch on 9 September. That launch, the largest yet under CEO Tim Cook, has now been overshadowed by the celebrity privacy breach.There had been speculation that a “brute force” attack had been used to crack passwords on celebrity accounts. Brute force attacks bombard servers with possible password combinations until it cracks.Security experts had speculated that the hackers may have used such attacks on Apple’s Find My iPhone service to crack the accounts without alerting their owners.The FBI said it isinvestigating the breach. “The FBI is aware of the allegations concerning computer intrusions and the unlawful release of material involving high profile individuals and is addressing the matter,” said a statement from the Los Angeles FBI. “Any further comment would be inappropriate at this time.”
The online car-sharing service Uber has vowed to continue operating across Germany after its mobile app was banned by a Frankfurt regional court.The ruling that the app violates the country's Passenger Transportation Act applies nationwide, according to legal experts. The temporary ban remains in place until a full hearing takes place, and Uber could face a €250,000 (£198,000) fine per ride.But Uber vowed to keep the app online regardless. "You cannot put the brakes on progress," the company said. "Uber will continue its operations and will offer Uberpop ride-sharing services via its app throughout Germany." It promised to appeal against the decision and would, if necessary, "exhaust all the legal possibilities".The case against Uber was brought by the Taxi Deutschland Servicegesellschaft company, which offers a rival app that links users to registered taxi drivers. The company argued that Uber was not operating a legitimate service because its drivers did not have the correct permits, were not properly insured, and were not subject to checks. German law allows drivers without a commercial licence to pick up passengers only if they charge no more than the operating cost of the trip."We are very happy with the decision," TDS spokeswoman Anja Floetenmeyer said. "The law says there are safety regulations for drivers and safety regulations for users, and these also apply to neo-liberal firms like Uber."Describing the sharing economy as a "locust", TDS chairman Dieter Schlenker said: "Uber operates with billions in cash from Goldman Sachs and Google, wraps itself in a start-up look and sells itself as a new economy saviour."Floetenmeyer said that since Uber was choosing to ignore the ban, TDS would now formally ask the court to enforce the relevant fines. "If you get into a car, you are legally in the hands of the driver with your life and your personal health and safety," she said. "And the driver has to play by the German rules."Floetenmeyer also warned that the next step would be to impose additional fines on drivers using the Uber app. The five-year-old San Francisco-based company, recently valued at $18bn (£10.9bn), has faced determined opposition from taxi operators in cities across the world, with thousands of drivers in June bringing traffic almost to a standstill in London, Paris and Madrid, among other places.The latest court decision further raises the stakes for Uber in Germany, where it has had to fend off legal challenges for months in Berlin and Hamburg on issues ranging from licensing to whether its drivers are fully insured to carry passengers.Uber has pursued an aggressive business strategy in the country, expanding rapidly and defying a number of attempts by local authorities to ban it. The app is available in Berlin, Munich, Hamburg, Frankfurt and Düsseldorf, and Uber intends to expand into at least six other German cities.Authorities in Berlin and Hamburg tried to ban the app earlier this year, citing a lack of proper permits and insurance, but in both cases local administrative courts suspended the bans, pending procedural decisions and further hearings.Uber says Germany represents one of the company's most fertile markets, with registrations having quintupled since the start of the year.
The FBI is investigating thehacking of celebrity nude photos, including those of Academy Award winner Jennifer Lawrence, it has confirmed.Images of more than 100 actors, singers and celebrities – including what appear to be nude photos and videos – have been leaked by a hacker using the internet forum 4chan.The hacker posted a list of targeted celebrities on Sunday, as well as a number of nude photos, some of which may be faked.Lawrence and others affected by the leak have contacted police in the US, prompting an investigation by the FBI.“The FBI is aware of the allegations concerning computer intrusions and the unlawful release of material involving high profile individuals and is addressing the matter,” said a statement from the Los Angeles FBI. “Any further comment would be inappropriate at this time.”‘Flagrant violation of privacy’“This is a flagrant violation of privacy. The authorities have been contacted and will prosecute anyone who posts the stolen photos of Jennifer Lawrence,” said Liz Mahoney, publicist for Lawrence.Mary Elizabeth Winstead, an actor, and Kate Upton, a Sports Illustrated model, also confirmed that images of them had been stolen and leaked online.Kirsten Dunst criticised Apple and its iCloud service (combining pizza and poo emoticons to represent the phrase ‘piece of shit’), which has been the focus of theories about where the photos came from. Apple is currently investigating the theory, although other explanations,including phishing and exposure of details through agents, have been put forward.Thank you iCloud🍕💩&mdash; Kirsten Dunst (@kirstendunst)September 1, 2014The alleged hacker, who originally posted the list of celebrities and photos on the 4chan website, wrote on Monday that “I will soon be moving to another location from which I will continue to post”.“Guys, just to let you know I didn’t do this by myself,” said the hacker. “There are several other people who were in on it and I needed to count on to make this happen. This is the result of several months of long and hard work by all involved.”Security expertsare warningthat there could be many more compromised celebrity iCloud accounts after examining data from pictures stolen from Lawrence and Upton.•Naked celebrity hack: security experts focus on iCloud backup theory
Google’s software for smartwatches, Android Wear, will start appearing on a range of devices from various manufacturers this autumn, and this year’s IFA electronics trade show, which starts on Wednesday, is expected to be packed with rival models.Wear is a new platform, an overhaul of Google’s Android smartwatch software, which simplifies the user experience by cutting out all but the essential features.The LG G Watch and Samsung Gear Live were the first Android Wear smartwatches, but they are expected to be joined by models from Sony, Asus, HTC, Motorola, as well as more from Samsung and LG soon.Wearing Android WearFor users, the pertinent question is whether Android Wear is worth investing in, and ditching a perfectly adequate watch for.To answer that question, I was joined by Tom Grinsted, the Guardian’s group product manager for mobile and devices, and Subhajit Banerjee, the Guardian’s mobile editor – and we all tested Android Wear watches for two months to find out.Google’s first two smartwatches show promise but are expensive.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianGrinsted wore the Samsung Gear Live. He didn’t find shifting notifications from a phone to his wrist intrusive.I’ve been genuinely surprised by how quickly the Samsung Gear Live I’ve been wearing for the past couple of months has replaced the many, many times I get my phone out for tiny interactions.That was the premise of Android Wear, but after using it I’ve really felt like a wearable was offering me something useful for the first time – a quicker, less intrusive and less arduous way to manage the micro-interactions that make up much of my digital life. It’s become a habit, and very quickly.That’s not to say it’s perfect. The Gear Live lasts for two days of reasonably heavy use but it’s another gadget inevitably leading to charging anxiety (if that’s a thing).For small actions it’s great but as soon as I want to do anything more I reach for my phone because a screen on your wrist is too small for anything heavy. But I also reach for the phone because there are some things you simply can’t do on a watch. It’s considered odd to talk to non-phone technology in public.Android Wear’s voice recognition is really very good: easily accurate enough to reply quickly to text messages or ask for directions. But using it means that you’re talking to your wrist in public. It’s less stare-inducing than wearingGoogle Glassbut not by much.Am I still wearing Wear after two months? Yes. I really like not getting my phone out all the time. It makes my technology quicker and less obvious in public. Unless I start talking to it … I don’t think we’re all quite ready for that. Yet.”Samsung Gear LivePhotograph: Jeff Chiu/APBanerjee also wore the Gear Live but struggled with the battery life.For me, it’s really convenient to be able to look at all the notifications and act only on those that need urgent attention, especially the work related stuff (meeting reminders, breaking news alerts, Google chats, Twitter interactions, etc).The Gear Live also looks like a watch, and the ability to change clock faces is great – a new watch everyday. Having the ability to ask your watch to look up stuff and measure your heart rate? Who wouldn’t want that.But it’s not perfect. Having to remember to charge a watch as well as a phone each night is a drag. I get 36 hours of out of the Gear Live before needing to charge it, and I would prefer to charge it via microUSB without the charging attachment.I alsowish it had connectivity of its own, and wasn’t simply a companion device. App selection is weak – I want a Spotify app to control what I’m listening to, for instance.Having notifications on my wrist means that if I want a break from alerts, taking off the watch is much easier and practical than ditching the phone or going through loads of app settings.Overall, it still feels like a product in development offering a glimpse into the potentials of wearables, very much like the early days of the mobile phone. But it is functional enough for me to continue to wear for over two months instead of a watch.”LG G WatchPhotograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianIn my view, having worn the LG G Watch for just under two months there are two things I’ve noticed. The first is that Android Wear watches with their screens on all the time are the best for telling the time. Other smartwatches that rely on the wrist’s movement to light the screen are great in theory, but fail in practice.The second is that having notifications vibrate and display on the wrist has saved me hours. I don’t need toconstantlyget my phone out of my pocket, unlock it, swipe down on the notification shade then then dismiss it every time it vibrates.Now I turn off all phone alerts and rely on the watch, swiping them away when I don’t care, which is most of the time, or tapping through them and pulling them up on the phone when something important arrives.There is something very satisfying about junking an email on my wrist and when I don’t want to be notified I can just mute the watch or turn it off.The G Watch lasted about two days on a charge, had minimal impact on my smartphone’s battery life and was comfortable to wear, easily fitting under a shirt cuff. It was the best smartwatch I’ve used and it proved to me that Android Wear was something worth having; it added to my smartphone experience rather than just being another gimmick.Google should be applauded for taking a less-is-more approach to the smartwatch, thinking about what people actually want to do with a screen on the wrist. I’d still like a keyboard andmore apps, but Wear works as it is now and is quickly becoming something I don’t want to live without.Appealing to the mass marketWear has yet to appeal to the mass market, to prove that having notifications on the wrist instead of the smartphone (or not at all) is worth spending £150-200 on.For those not inundated with email, messages and social media there is still little in the way of a convincing use case – but like the first iPad, it’s something that you find uses for once you have it.It will be exciting to see how smartwatches develop, with more phone-independent functionality expected, as well as what the round watches fromLGand Motorola look like at IFA.•LG’s G Watch R: the smartwatch that looks like a watch•Google smartwatches review: LG G Watch, Samsung Gear Live and Android Wear
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTell creepy men on the internet how you really feel &gt;&gt; The VergeT.C. Sottek:If you're not familiar with Reddit, this is the best way I know how to describe it: it's an "anything goes" online message board where the loudest voices belong to misogynistic trolls who value anonymity over decency. In reality, "anything goes" is a bit of hyperbole, since the site does have two major rules: no child porn, and no posting "personal information." And because Reddit is a special place, its ban on posting personal information will protect you unless you happen to be an attractive woman that lots of people want to see naked.At ground zero of Reddit's celebrity nude leak, where, as you are reading this, an orgy of men are sharing and ogling and re-sharing and re-ogling, lies this placard:DO NOT POST ANY INFORMATION, TRUE OR FALSE, ABOUT THE IDENTITY OF THE PERSON(S) LEAKING THESE PHOTOGRAPHS AND VIDEOS. IF YOU DO THAT YOU WILL BE BANNED FROM THIS SUBREDDIT.If the hypocrisy of this dim herd is not bare enough for you, consider this: these people want to protect someone who stole and exposed the private nude photos of women because logically their actions are roughly equivalent to someone who leaks state secrets like illegal mass spying on American citizens.Q3 2014 smartphone sales - calm before the iPhone 6 storm &gt;&gt; KantarCarolina Milanesi:The average lifecycle of smartphones in the US is 20 months. BlackBerry holds the longest cycle at 26.3 months, while Apple is only slightly above average at 21.1. More than 43% of the iPhones in use are older than 24 months, while another 24% are between 18 and 24 months old.  The iPhone 4S is the most popular model with a 26% share of all iPhones in circulation in the US. The iPhone 5 is the second most owned model at 22%, while 19% of iPhones in use are the iPhone 4 model.When it comes to upgrading their devices, 18% of current iPhone owners intend to upgrade in the next six months and another 48% plan to upgrade in the next 12. Ninety-three percent of owners in both groups are considering upgrading to another iPhone.Microsoft will not hand over overseas email, despite order | ReutersA judge on Friday lifted a suspension on her order directing Microsoft to turn over a customer's emails stored overseas to US prosecutors, but the software company said it would not release any emails while it appeals the ruling.Chief Judge Loretta Preska of the US District Court in Manhattan had on 31 July upheld a magistrate judge's ruling on the emails, which have been held in a data center in Ireland.That prospect had drawn concern from technology companies - fearful of losing revenue from foreign customers worried that US law enforcement might win broad power to seize their data.Microsoft isn't (yet) in contempt, so this could go all the way to the Supreme Court if the appeals carry on.How your #naked pictures ended up on the internet &gt;&gt; Toolbox.comWhile information security has come a long way in the last 20 years, one key fact remains the same: the weakest link in the chain is the human.  Humans aren't good at securing their stuff - and they certainly aren't good at picking passwords or security questions.The incident that I'm about to share with you below is just an example - an important example.  Share this posting please.From September 2012, but it's just as true now: social engineering, in its manifold forms, is what happens again and again. Tagged your cat on Facebook? Maybe that's how your Yahoo account was hacked, which led to the next, and the next...Either privacy or security is broken, but we seem reluctant to embrace privacy again. Security needs to catch up. And, as this article points out, there are sites where people buy and sell iCloud logins.Ferguson police are using body cameras &gt;&gt; St Louis Post-DispatchPolice officers here began wearing body cameras on Saturday as marchers took to the streets in the most recent protest of a shooting three weeks earlier by a city officer that left an unarmed teenager dead.Ferguson Police Chief Tom Jackson said his department was given about 50 body cameras by two companies, Safety Visions and Digital Ally, about a week ago. The companies donated the body cameras after the fatal shooting on Aug. 9 of Michael Brown Jr. by Ferguson officer Darren Wilson.Company representatives were at the police department on Saturday training officers to use the devices, which attach to uniforms and record video and audio.Let's see how this works out over the next couple of years.Taken a long time.Share your whiteboard &gt;&gt; RocketboardLooks like a good idea if you do lots of work on whiteboards and have dispersed teams.It's over: the rise &amp; fall of Google Authorship for search results &gt;&gt; Search Engine LandEric Enge of Stone Temple Consulting on how those little photos of people beside search results are going away:We all like to think that Google has infinite processing power. It doesn't. If it did have such power, it would use optical character recognition to read text in images, image processing techniques to recognize pictures, speech to text technology to transcribe every video it encounters online, and it would crawl every page on the web every day, and so forth. But it doesn't.What this tells us is that Google has to make conscious decisions on how it spends its processing power — it must be budgeted wisely. As of this moment, the Authorship initiative as we have known it has not been deemed worthy of the budget it was consuming.The rise of mobile may have played a role in this outcome as well. When John Mueller says staffers don't see a significant difference in click behavior in the SERPs as a result of Authorship rich snippets, remember that about half of Google's traffic comes from mobile devices now. Chewing up valuable screen real estate for this type of markup on a mobile device may simply be a bad idea.So is authorship gone forever? Our guess is that probably is not. The concept is a good one.Bye, Google Maps &gt;&gt; MediumZach Hamed:Every so often, an app comes along that just completely understands the way you think. I don't normally write long posts about an app I've used. ButCitymapperis so incredibly well-made that I decided to put together a list of common use cases of a maps app, and how both Google Maps and Citymapper handle them.Apple's Maps would trail a poor third on this comparison. Should Apple buy Citmapper?The Road Ahead &gt;&gt; AnandTechAnand Lai Shimpi, founder of the site:after 17.5 years of digging, testing, analyzing and writing about the most interesting stuff in tech, it's time for a change. This will be the last thing I write on AnandTech as I am officially retiring from the tech publishing world. Ryan Smith (@RyanSmithAT) is taking over as Editor in Chief of AnandTech. Ryan has been working with us for nearly 10 years, he has a strong background in Computer Science and he's been shadowing me quite closely for the past couple of years. I am fully confident in Ryan's ability to carry the torch and pick up where I left off. We've grown the staff over the course of this year in anticipation of the move. With a bunch of new faces around AnandTech, all eager to uphold the high standards and unique approach to covering tech, I firmly believe the site can continue to thrive for years to come.He'sgoing to Appleto do an unspecified job. Also: 9to5mac reports that Brian Klug, also formerly at Anandtech, isnow working at Apple on mobile processors.Quick thoughts: on iPhone sizes &gt;&gt; Beyond DevicesJan Dawson:It's particularly dangerous to extrapolate demand for iPhones at different screen sizes from Android purchasing behavior, for two main reasons:• iPhone and Android users behave very differently, in a whole variety of ways: Android users spend less on devices and apps, spend less time in apps, download fewer apps, are more likely to live in emerging markets and in Asia, and so on and so forth. They're simply very different user bases, and there's no particular reason to believe they'll behave the same way when it comes to screen sizes when their behavior is so different in every other way.• Secondly, and perhaps more importantly, it's very easy to reverse cause and effect with screen sizes in the Android world. Many people seem to assume that, because most premium Android devices are larger than 4.5 inches, that must be what people want. But the reality is that it's almost impossible to buy a premium Android device with a screen smaller than 4.5 inches. So, the question becomes, are premium Android devices only made in sizes above 4.5 inches because that's all anyone wants, or is that all anyone wants because that's all that Android OEMs make? I'd argue that Android device makers have very deliberately targeted the larger size as a way to set themselves apart from the iPhone, but that doesn't necessarily mean it was demand-driven.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Security experts are warning that there could be many more compromised celebrity iCloud accounts after examining file data from pictures stolen from stars including Jennifer Lawrence and Kate Upton.One theory gaining ground is that many of the pictures had been accumulated by one hacker over a period of time - and were then “popped” by another hacker who somehow broke into a machine belonging to the first. Lending weight to that was that one of the earliest photos found in a cache released online dated to December 2011, while the most recent was from 14 August.Some have also pointed to the presence of a Dropbox tutorial file in one hacked account as suggesting that the third-party cloud storage service was a source of some pictures.But the posting to Github of an exploit against Apple’s Find My iPhone service three days ago, whichcould use a “brute-force” attack to work out a password, points to the existence of weak links in Apple’s service that could have been exploited once somebody had the email address of a celebrity or their manager.The original hack looks to have been done by “chaining” between accounts: on gaining access to one person’s account, the hacker could access their address book and use that to attack others’.InfoSec Taylor Swift, a Twitter account that began as a parody combination of the country singer and security thinking, began a serious examination of EXIF data connected to some of the photos distributed online. EXIF data can give extra detail about a photograph, such as when it was taken, with what device, and where.“Swift”put the EXIF data- though not the images - from the alleged Kate Upton pictures onto the code-pasting site Pastebin - andfoundthat they appeared to have come from her boyfriend, not Upton herself.Apple has still issued no statement on how many accounts on its iCloud service were broken into.But it has come in for strong criticism over the lack of protection against “brute-force” attacks that would yield a password. “If the celebs’ iCloud account passwords were brute forced, the problem seems to be lack of rate limiting by Apple, not lack of crypto,”commentedChristopher Soghoian, principal technology at the American Civil Liberties Union.“Once Apple’s privacy and PR teams respond to the celeb iCloud fiasco, I hope Apple donates several million dollars to usable security research… Blame the tech companies for delivering products with crappy default security settings, not the non-expert users whose accounts are hacked.”Some have suggested that the source of some of the photos could even be staff with the ability to access iCloud backups. However Applesays in its support documentsthat iCloud backups - including photographs - are encrypted: “This means that your data is protected from unauthorised access both while it is being transmitted to your devices and when it is stored in the cloud.”Dan Kaminsky, chief scientist at whiteops.com,said on Twitterthat “my personal thinking is that someone [originally] hacked desktops, and someone else hacked the hacker” - adding “if it isn’t iCloud, which apparently there’s some reason to believe.”There is widespread confusion though about the implications of the hack. Swiftwarnedthat “_This is just the beginning._ Folders of images with thumbnails visible have been shown, many celebs yet to be impacted who will.”•If you click on Jennifer Lawrence’s naked pictures, you’re perpetuating her abuse
YouTube now attracts more than 1 billion viewers a month watching 6bn hours of video, with nearly 40% of it watched on mobile devices. Its top channels are taking advantage.In fact, the monthly view-count for the top 100 YouTube channels has grown by 80.5% over the last year, according to new data published by online video industry site Tubefilter and analytics firm OpenSlate.The former’s chart of the100 most-viewed YouTube channels in July 2014reveals that they collectively notched up 9.46bn views that month. That’s up from 5.24bn viewsin July 2013.The big winner from the last year’s growth is PewDiePie, the alter ego of Swedish gamer Felix Kjellberg. Between July 2013 and July 2014, his monthly views nearly doubled from 221.6m to 438.9m, while his subscribers grew from 11.75m to 29.47m.The second biggest YouTube channel in July 2014 was DisneyCollector, with its collection of toy-unboxing videos racking up 268m views in the month, putting it ahead of musician Shakira’s 226.6m views.Gaming channels Stampy (199.6m views) and The Diamond Minecart (186.1m views) took fourth and fifth places in Tubefilter’s latest monthly chart.It’s another mark of YouTube’s evolution over the last 12 months that DisneyCollector, Stampy and The Diamond Minecart did not feature in the top 100 chart for July 2013, meaning they had less than the 100th-ranked channel’s 32.6m views that month.The July 2014 rankings reveal that music, games and comedy remain the three key categories for YouTube. Games in particular: in fact, aseparate chart published by Tubefilterreveals that the 100 top gaming channels on YouTube generated 4.34bn views in July.YouTube and parent company Google may havelost out to Amazon in the race to acquire games live-streaming service Twitch, but gaming remains one of the key planks in YouTube’s appeal as an alternative entertainment network.•From YouTube to Vice: 10 trends changing our TV viewing
There are many things in life that we value, but uncertainty is not one of them.At first sight, this may seem to be uncontroversial. What we actually value is information, understandable as the appropriate combination of relevant questions and correct answers, the Qsandthe As.We value information because it is power: power to understand what happened, forecast what will happen, and hence choose among the things that could happen.If you wish to buy a second-hand car, you value information about its past (was it involved in any accident? yes), its future (is it expensive to run? yes), and its present (should I haggle over the price? yes). The more information you have, the better you may shape your environment and control its development, and the more advantage you may enjoy against competitors who lack such a resource.This applies even to stand-alone contexts: Robinson Crusoe wishes to have information about the island, even if there is nobody else. It applies even more strongly to social contexts: once Robinson Crusoe is joined by Friday, the native cannibals, the shipwrecked Spaniards, and the English mutineers, the asymmetric nature of his informational state (he has answers to questions that they lack) is enormously advantageous, to the point of being life-saving.On the contrary, being uncertain means that none of this holds true, because you have only the relevant questions without the correct answers, only the Qswithoutthe As.Just remove the three yesses from the previous questions about the second-hand car and you immediately appreciate why nobody likes to be in such a state of informational deficit.Because each of us finds information valuable and uncertainty unhelpful, one may be tempted to generalise and declare uncertainty a disvalue in absolute terms: having only relevant questions is always bad, adding the correct answers is always good.We value information precisely because it reduces uncertainty. If you like one you dislike the other, it seems a zero-sum game. Yet this would be a mistake. A liberal, tolerant, and fair society is one in which a healthy degree of uncertainty is both welcomed and fostered.First, one must recall that uncertainty is preferable to ignorance, for lacking answers is not as bad as lacking the questions in the first place. Imagine you did not think about asking whether the second-hand car you bought required a very expensive insurance. Often “you should have known better” only means “you should have asked”.It is not uncertainty but rather ignorance that is an absolute disvalue. For only if you have no questions you may never get answers. Fundamentalists of all kinds know this well. This is why any society that forbids or discourages free questioning is illiberal and in need of reform.Second, uncertainty has value insofar as it makes the relationship between questions and answers a bit more problematic, and rightly so. Sceptics love doubts that untie the As from the Qs.The value of sceptical doubts and of the uncertainty they generate lie in the extremely demanding standards that they setup to test the correctness of our answers. A bit like driving your second-hand car under the most extreme weather conditions. So people who understand scepticism use it judiciously, as a benchmark.Descartes was questioning the ultimate foundation of all knowledge. The task could not have been more crucial, so he choose the ultimate challenge – a malicious demon that is constantly deceiving us even about the clearest answers to the most basic questions about simple mathematical truths. He offered the ultimate answer: I think therefore I am, this much is absolutely certain.Of course, when buying a second-hand car, you do not need to entertain such extreme possibility. And yet, some sceptical uncertainty may still be healthy, for you may not be fooled by a demon, but you might be conned by a salesman. In short, some induced uncertainty and the ability to entertain alternative answers to the same question has an epistemological value that we should not underestimate, in science as well as in everyday life.Dogmatic societies that assume there is only one correct answer to fundamental questions – being these about abortion, same-sex marriage, dress codes, alcohol and recreational drugs, assisted suicide, or other similar divisive issues – tend to be intolerant and could definitely do with a healthy dose of uncertainty.Finally and most importantly, uncertainty can be harnessed in order to restrain the power that comes with information, or constrain it to make it perform better. The first point is simpler. Information-as-power can easily be abused, and it is sometimes better not to empower people in the first place, rather than trust them to use their power fairly and wisely, not least because the “nice” people of today may be replaced by nastier one tomorrow.Think about political preferences, for example: your vote should be and remain secret, no matter how free I am to ask questions about it. The same holds true about private choices, tastes, inclinations, or behaviours: your business, my uncertainty.The second point, that some degree of uncertainty may actually be good for the overall informational state of the system, is less intuitive. To put it simply, information-as-power, if unlimited, may actually perform less well, socially, then when there are some limits. This is known, in game and network theory, asBraess’ paradox.Sometimes, blocking roads can actually speed up traffic. Think in terms of adding some friction to the flow of information: if some questions remain unanswerable in principle (blocked, using the network traffic analogy) this actually improves the performance of the overall system. If everybody remains slightly uncertain about some topics, everybody ends up being more informed.Each of us would like to be omniscient, at least in the sense of having access to the correct answer to any question but, socially, this would be a disaster, for boundless information leads to boundless power (omnipotence), which rationally and selfishly used breeds irreconcilable conflicts, and ultimately a gridlock.John Rawls’ famous “veil of ignorance” is actually a “veil of uncertainty”, which exploits precisely the value of a lack of answers, in order to develop an impartial approach to justice in terms of fairness: we should determine the morality of an action or institution or custom as if we did not have an answer to the question how it would affect us, that is, which position we would hold in the issuing society that would approve of it.In medicine, we have learnt that, at normal levels in the blood, cholesterol is an essential substance for the normal functioning of the body. Just because the usual problem is too high cholesterol, which therefore needs to be kept under control, this does not mean that excessively low cholesterol is not unhealthy as well.In economics, we have learnt a similar lesson about inflation. For a long time we treated it as an absolute disvalue and tried to eradicate it completely, but it seems clear now that a low (as opposed to zero or negative) and steady rate of inflation is actually preferable, because it can reduce the severity of economic recessions and favour more stability.In philosophy, it is time we learn the value of a low and stable degree of uncertainty. It is unhealthy to eradicate it completely, for a small dose of it in the social system leads to increased degrees of liberalism, toleration, and fairness, as well as more efficient flows of information.It seems that the value of information also lies in what it can teach us about its own equilibria.Luciano Floridi isdirector of research, and professor of philosophy and ethics of information, at theOxford Internet Institute, University of Oxford, and has been appointed to advise Google on theRight to be Forgotten rulingGoogle ethics advisor: the law needs bold ideas to address the digital age
There’s a hot trend among a vocal minority of gamers right now: the harassment of women developers and critics. Of course, this sort of thing is not new in tech – or, let’s face it, across the internet – but in the video games industry it has hit a fashionable peak.On Thursday,it was widely reportedthat the North American media critic Anita Sarkeesian had fled her own home, thanks torape and death threatsfrom angry gamers targeting her and her family. Her crime was to produce a series of YouTube videos analysing the depiction of women in games from a feminist perspective.Sarkeesian’s plight eerily mirrorsthat of games designer Zoë Quinn[see footnote], developer of the experimental adventure, Depression Quest, who has also hadto pack up and move in with friends, after an online campaign of hatred against her.Earlier this month, Quinn’s ex-boyfriend published intimate details of their relationship online, and her sexual history inexplicably became the centrepiece of a large-scale, industry-wide debate about journalism, nepotism and ethics.Accusations were hurled at Quinn via gamer forums and sites like Reddit and 4Chan. Gaming news blog Kotaku clarified that an alleged breach of journalistic objectivity concerning Quinnnever actually took place. But the hate speech continued.Yes, it’s beenquite a banner seasonfor the collective of self-identifying core gamers who gather on forums to muster shared fury. Now they feel they are at war with a group of left-leaning games writers and developers who they refer to as “social justice warriors” – this is effectively anyone who has ever questioned the patriarchal nature of the games industry or the limited, often objectifying depiction of women. Because, you know, games are fine as they are thanks.So, for those out there who have decided to join in and harass a woman developer or critic out of the games business, this is how you do it. Launchingan actual hate campaignis a major commitment, so you’ll need to stick with it if you really want to generate a culture of fear with lasting repercussions. Remember: one surefire way to make your mark on the world is by scarring it.Crucially, a good troll knows how to attack a woman’s “professionalism” – particularly if you’ve never read, watched or played anything she has produced. Your method is to undermine her credibility and devalue her work by hardly discussing it – and maybe discussing her full sexual history instead.Your goal – if you, too, are keen on suspicion and hate – is total alienation, making your target feel impossibly hopeless and alone by way of attacking her friends, colleagues or anyone who has ever written anything positive about her.If your target is Anita Sarkeesian, you willdirect your outragetoward her supporters, including game designer and all-around luminary Tim Schafer, film director Joss Whedon or Phil Fish, designer of the beautiful platform game Fez.You can make your attack extra personal by researching your target’s address, work details and, if your target is Quinn, even her father’s home phone number. Publishing this online is agreatway to ensure your target receives death threats, without ever having to actually pen a death threat yourself.Finally, if you really want to help ruin the games industry, it helps to have money on your hateful side. For instance, you mightlaunch a successful online campaignto fund a documentary exploring how tech culture has been “hijacked” by Sarkeesian and other “social justice warriors”.All the while, bullies of the games industry, do insist that your efforts to totally ruin a woman’s life and career are founded in “transparency”, “ethics” and “integrity”. Do suggest, at every turn, that “games journalism” has not yet fully acknowledged your campaign of terror because of an industry-wide “cover-up”.Be careful not to concede that anyone writing about said campaign may also fear retaliation. Certainly we do. In fostering this culture of terror, you can ensure the majority is silent – that itwon’tspeak out against the harm you are doing.For example, someone recently and bafflingly tried to hack into my email and phone contacts. This is all very frightening to write, and so I must disclose that Iambiased, insofar as I am terrified. I have worked in this industry for most of the last nine – not always perfect – years and I have never professed to be a perfect person. However, my values, my belief that abuse must not, cannot become “normal”, “acceptable” or “expected” is at odds withoh, God, please, why are they doing this, what’s the point, don’t let it be me, don’t let it be me.My unabashed love for video games, my colleagues and my work have a conflict of interest with my own terror.See, the best, most successful hate campaign dreamsbig. For some, it isn’t only about targeting one woman, two women, or a handful of women. The endgame is to frightenallwomen out of the video games industry – no matter what they write, film, create or produce – and to additionally frighten anyone who would support them.As Slate’s David Auerbachput it, “keep in mind that targeting Quinn will drive away the nextKim Swift”. That’s Kim Swift, co-designer of Portal, one of the greatest games ever made. Never was there a nobler cause.One last thing. When harassing brave women, be sure to maintain that your campaign isn’t about gender. And in a way, it isn’t. Sustained abuse knows no gender, race, religion or creed. It hurts everybody.• The following footnote was appended on 5 September 2014: An earlier footnote, appended on 1 September, made clear that Jenn Frank had purchased and is a supporter of Zoë Quinn’s work, although this is the first article she has written on the developer and that Frank has also briefly met Anita Sarkeesian. These facts had been included as a footnote by Jenn Frank when she filed her copy before publication but removed by editors because they did not fulfil the criteria for a “significant connection” in line with the Guardian’s editorial guidelines. However, the Guardian wishes to make clear that it was an editorial decision originally to remove the original disclosure, not one made by the author, and we are happy to have restored it in the interests of full disclosure.
The three big credit card companies – MasterCard, Visa and American Express – have signed deals with Apple and its iPhone 6 contactless payments plan, reports indicate.Apple plans to turn its smartphone into a mobile wallet capable of paying for goods using a similar system to the contactless payment technology built into most British credit and debit cards, which allows users to pay for goods up to £20 without having to swipe, insert the card into a reader or enter a pin.The partnership with the big three card companies, as reported separately byBloombergandRecode, would allow Apple to use its large database of 800m credit card details attached to iTunes accounts for music, app, books and video purchases.It could use them to ignite the mobile payments market which has struggled to take off, despite efforts from PayPal, Google, mobile phone providers and banks.Touch ID and contactless payments for the iPhone 6Apple is expected to introduce its mobile payments service using short-range secure communication technology built directly into the highly anticipated iPhone 6 that would probably link with its Touch ID fingerprint sensor for authorising payments.The company has long resisted near-field communication (NFC) technology (short-range communications such as contactless payments), which has been available in many Android smartphones for years, despite holding patents for it.Worldwide mobile payments surpassed $235bn in 2013, according to Gartner, a research company.“We expect global mobile transaction volume and value to average 35% annual growth between 2012 and 2017, and we are forecasting a market worth $721bn with more than 450 million users by 2017,” said Sandy Shen,research director at Gartner.Uptake of mobile payments has been sluggish with high profile services including Google Wallet and Isis struggling to gain traction, despite the penetration of NFC technologies in smartphones from every manufacturer except Apple.Apple’s entry into the mobile payments space has long been forecast, and is expected to spur adoption with a knock-on effect for others in the market. How it will work with retailers and whether the service will be restricted to the US at least initially is unknown.Apple, MasterCard, American Express and Visa have been contacted for comment.Apple to go big on biometric devices, bigger on iPhoneApple confirms 9 September event – expect new iPhone and wearable
Cybercrime experts from police forces around the world are coming together to form a new body, the Joint Cybercrime Action Taskforce (J-CAT), aiming to tackle the smartest online criminals.Andy Archibald, deputy head of the National Cyber Crime Unit with the UK’s National Crime Agency, has been placed in charge of the team, which will be based in the European Cybercrime Centre (EC3) at Europol.Cybercrime police from Austria, Canada, Colombia, Germany, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, the UK and the US have already committed to taking part in the six-month pilot for J-CAT.The team will coordinate investigations into widespread threats, including viruses that steal banking logins, and high-profile criminals, such as those dealing hacker tools and selling personal data on underground forums.As many as 18 individuals from the respective global law enforcement agencies will be relocated to the Hague where the EC3 is based. They will gather and share intelligence on cybercriminal activity before building cases, which will be presented to the J-CAT board headed by Archibald. That board will then decide on which cases to pursue.Troels Oerting, head of the EC3, told the Guardian that J-CAT would be able to get investigations into “top-level criminals” moving far quicker than before. “It’s not a talk shop, it’s an operational entity. This has to lead to more arrests… we have already identified a number of good cases,” said Oerting.“By having the member states here with access to the majority of their own intelligence and information at their fingertips, we will able to prioritise much earlier. They will be able to make a decision immediately to start an investigation.”In aprevious interview with the Guardian, Oerting expressed frustration at the lack of cooperation from Russia, a known hotbed of cybercriminal activity. He said today the task force would also seek to form ties with those in the Eastern Bloc, where much of today’s online crime originates.“The majority of the crime we see now is Russian-speaking crime. That might not be Russian from the Federation of Russia… we need to have someone engaged at the other end doing something.”As the recent investigations into the Cryptolocker and Gameover Zeus malware showed, tracking and arresting Russian cyber crooks has proven tricky. The alleged perpetrator, Evgeniy Bogachev,remains at large despite a global law enforcement effort to apprehend him.“There are a number of countries that will still provide online criminals with a relatively safe haven. These may be countries which do not have any cybercrime laws in place, do not have the expertise and capabilities to deal with online criminals, where corruption enables online criminals to operate, or indeed where political motives prevent international cooperation from happening,” said Brian Honan, independent security consultant and founder of Ireland’s first Computer Emergency Response Team.“But as more and more countries start to take online crime seriously and become more cooperative the number of these ‘safe havens’ should reduce also.”•Persian paranoia: America’s fear of Iranian cyber power
Theleak of pictures and, allegedly, videos of Jennifer Lawrence by an unknown hackerhas security experts – and Apple – puzzled. Though the hacker has posted a list of scores of female celebrities to a chatroom claiming to have more pictures of them, a number of those named have come forward to say that photos claimed to be of them are faked, while others claim they were deleted.The list of those allegedly affected is long, and includes Jennifer Lawrence, Jenny McCarthy, Rihanna, Kate Upton and the American actress Mary E Winstead. With any hack, the principal questions are: what was the avenue of attack? And where were the photos and videos – if they were real – downloaded from?The most headline-grabbing possibility for the source of the photos – a full-on frontal-assault ground-up hack of Apple’s iCloud service – is also the least likely. Large companies like Apple have dedicated in-house security teams who attempt to break into their own systems regularly.“A wide scale ‘hack’ of Apple’s iCloud is unlikely. Even the original poster is not claiming that,” noted Rik Ferguson, vice-president of security research at Trend Micro.As with the many celebrity hacks (and daily hacks that affect less famous people), the simpler and more likely explanation is the leak of an email and password combination, either through guesswork or “phishing”, when users are fooled by authentic-looking sites into entering their login details, which are then used against them.Apple is still investigating what is claimed to be an attack on its iCloud service, which is used by iPhone users to store settings and, crucially, which backs up photos taken with the phone to “cloud” servers. If you have a user’s email address and password for their iCloud service, you can log in to their account and download those photos and other details.The only block to that is if the account owner has enabled “two-factor authentication” (2FA) – an extra layer of security that will send a code to the owner’s phone before it allows login. Comparatively few people use 2FA, however, either because they don’t know about it or find it cumbersome.Apple is still investigating whether the data was all taken from its iCloud service and, if so, to what extent users’ accounts were compromised. The company had no statement at the time of publication.Fergusonsuggeststhat the hacker may have used the “forgot password” link on Apple’s iCloud system after gathering the celebrities’ email addresses – perhaps from the address book of another hacked device. Alternatively, the stars used the same password on multiple services, which were captured through that.Lawrence’s publicist says the photos are real, though not how old they are. In atweet, Winstead suggested a longstanding effort by the hacker. “Knowing those photos were deleted long ago, I can only imagine the creepy effort that went into this. Feeling for everyone who got hacked,” she wrote.However the independent security expert Graham Cluley points out that Winstead may have thought that she had deleted the photos from her phone – but with modern smartphones, deleting a picture from the phone does not always mean that no copies exist.Modern smartphones routinely save photos to the cloud because they often lack enough capacity for the huge number of photos that people take. Apple’s iPhone by default saves photos to iCloud; Google’s Android to its Google+ service; Microsoft’s Windows Phone to its OneDrive service. Third-party services such as Dropbox also offer automated photo and data backups. “People take photos and zap them, but don’t realise that they are being uploaded,” Cluley told the Guardian. Ferguson agrees: “Deleted doesn’t always mean deleted,” he notes.Those photos and videos can remain stored for years. If someone then gets hold of a user’s email and password, they can re-download all the photos – and also any videos that might have been sent by email. For an Apple device, thephotos can be downloaded on to a Mac or Windows PC, or any Apple device. The hacker posted a screenshot claiming to be of so-far unreleased videos and images taken on a Windows PC.“Two-factor authentication” protects against such hacks because it requires anyone setting up a copy of an existing account on a new device to enter a code that is sent to the primary device – usually a phone. Without that, access is blocked. Apple, Google, Microsoft and Yahoo all offer two-factor authentication on accounts, though it is not known how many, if any, of the affected celebrities used it.Others have claimed that pictures allegedly of them are not authentic. A representative for Ariana Grande said the photos said to be of her are “completely fake”. Victoria Justice alsotweetedthat the “so called nudes of me are FAKE people. Let me nip this in the bud right now *pun intended*”Cluley points to another possibility. Because those involved are celebrities, their accounts might have been hacked through someone who was handling their social media accounts or who regularly deals with their emails. “I wonder whether the agencies or some minion might be some part of this,” he mused. However, the stars named do not share a single publicist or management agency.Another possibility is that someone who set up one or more of the victims’ systems, or helped configure one, secretly altered it so that any data would be passed back to them. That happened in the case of the “Hollywood hacker” Christopher Chaney, from Florida, who spread photos from Scarlettt Johansson and Mila Kunis’s email accounts in 2011, and wassentenced to 10 years in jail in December 2012and ordered to pay more than $66,000 in restitution.Chaney was accused of illegally accessing the email accounts of more than 50 people in the entertainment industry between November 2010 and October 2011; in one instance he sent an email from the account of Aguilera’s stylist to the star, asking for scantily clad photos, and then posted them online. Afterwards Chaney apologised, saying that his actions were “probably one of the worst invasions of privacy someone could experience”. It was also claimed he had stalked two people online for more than ten years.Cluley said: “In the Chaney case, the stars had their email accounts hacked, and they were being altered so that somebody kept being forwarded their data even when the password changed.”He said that the obsessive behaviour of those who try to hack such accounts was like “butterfly collectors”. “They just like to collect this stuff. Perhaps what has happened here is that someone stumbled across a stash of these accounts and logins on somewhere like Dropbox. Or they have been at work for a long time to get at them. Or they hacked someone’s email account and got at their address book, and then phished other people. My suspicion is that this isn’t an iCloud security flaw as such.”iPhone and iPad ‘ransom’ attack was phishing, not iCloud hack
Fenced off from the world by high walls, Apple’s fast-developing “Space Ship” campus, designed by British architect Norman Foster, has been kept from prying eyes since breaking ground earlier this year. Unless, that is, you own a drone with a camera.The 2.8 million square foot complex designed by Foster will see Apple consolidate its headquarters into one giant glass ring, complete with underground parking, forests surrounding the complex incorporating 300 different species and solar panels and fuel cells for acquiring 70% of the building’s energy requirements.Inside the ring will be a private forest with outdoor dining areas, while the campus will cater for 13,000 employees responsible for office duties, research and development.The first phase of the $5bn project was conceived and instigated by former Apple chief executive Steve Jobs before his death as “the best office building in the world”.Theeight-minute videoshot with a GoPro strapped to a drone and shared by YouTube user known only asjmcminnshows the scale of the construction site, giving the best view yet of Jobs’ legacy project.•Apple’s new headquarters Campus 2 project – in pictures
It’s time for our weekly roundup of the best newiPhoneand iPad apps and games to have emerged on Apple’s App Store.As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app.Want more apps? Browse previousBest iPhone and iPad appsroundups on The Guardian. And if you’re looking for Android apps instead, browse the archives of the weeklyBest Android Appsroundups.APPSStar Walk 2 (£1.99 + IAP)The original Star Walk remains one of the most fascinating mobile apps: more than 10m people have used it to get more information on the stars above, apparently. This sequel is even better: you can use it to identify stars, but now it also has 3D planetary nebulae to browse. Great for stargazers of all ages and experience.iPhone / iPadGruffalo: Games (£2.99)This could be in the games section, but as a children’s app that includes sliding-puzzles and sums, it also fits here. It’s the first official app based on the Gruffalo books and films, with six mini-games and activities aimed at 3-7 year-olds. Terribly good fun.iPhone / iPadHyperlapse from Instagram (Free)This is Instagram’s new thing: a completely separate app that shoots video footage and turns it into time-lapse videos at up to 12x speed, while also applying (very impressive) stabilisation tech to fix your shaky camera-hand. The resulting videos are saved to your camera roll, but can (naturally) be shared on Instagram and Facebook.iPhone / iPadGoogle Slides (Free)Google Slides has been offering people an online alternative to Microsoft’s PowerPoint for some time now. This week, it’s giving Apple’s Keynote a run for its money on iOS too. The free app helps you create, edit and collaborate on presentations with colleagues, as well as downloading them for offline access.iPhone / iPadEndomondo Life (Free)Earlier this year, fitness app RunKeeper got a spin-off activity-tracking app called Breeze, for iPhone 5s. Now RunKeeper rival Endomondo has followed suit with Life: also exclusive to the 5s, it tracks your steps and calories burnt, helping you hit your daily goals.iPhoneForks Over Knives - The Recipes (£2.99)There’s a growing stable of slick apps on iOS that may leave your cookbooks gathering dust on the shelves. Forks Over Knives is the latest: a collection of more than 130 recipes (with the promise of more to come) with a healthy focus, clear instructions and plenty of variety.iPhonePhoto Sphere Camera (Free)Another Google app, as the company ports across some of its popular Android apps to iOS. Photo Sphere is a photography app for creating 360-degree images, which you can then upload to Google Maps for others to see. A bit novelty, but still clever.iPhoneProduct Hunt (Free)Product Hunt is currently a mini-craze in Silicon Valley circles: a way to share and comment on the latest apps and startups. Its iPhone app makes it easy to flick through the latest additions, and get an early glimpse at new services that might – stress the might – get popular in the coming months.iPhoneLearn by Incident (Free)This is a bit of a niche, given that you need one of Incident Technologies’gTarinstruments to use it. But it’s an interesting example of how music tuition is developing: a series of lessons teaching you chords and songs on the digital guitar.iPhoneGrabble: The Fashion Finder (Free)There have been plenty of apps promising to help you find clothes to buy, but few have made a lasting impact. Can Grabble buck the trend? It looks good: capable of browsing UK retailers including Top Shop, ASOS and Net-a-Porter, with a simple, accessible interface.iPhoneBioshock for iOS.GAMESBioshock (£10.49)Quite a price, but Bioshock remains quite a game: a supremely-creepy first-person shooter that sees you blasting away at genetically-modified nasties, while messing with your own biology to power up your abilities. And in answer to the obvious question: yes, the controls do work on a touchscreen.iPhone / iPadTiny Tower Vegas (Free + IAP)The two previous Tiny Tower games – Tiny Tower and Star Wars: Tiny Death Star – were both brilliant. This one is pretty good too, at first glance: you build a pixelly hotel and casino, filling its floors with gambling, and then popping in to play yourself.iPhone / iPadThe Nightmare Cooperative (£2.49)It’s a good week for creative indie games on iOS – yes, you can say that of most weeks at the moment – with The Nightmare Cooperative particularly worth your attention. It’s a clever “roguelike” adventure, where you have to guide a group of heroes to gather as much gold as possible. Full of character.iPhone / iPadThey Need To Be Fed 3 (£1.49)The previous They Need To Be Fed games were fab, and this continues the trend: a beautifully-crafted platform adventure with a “360-degree” schtick that means you’re not restricted from going in one direction. Excellent stuff.iPhone / iPadMadden NFL Mobile (Free + IAP)EA’s American football franchise returns for a new season, in its recently-adopted guise as a free-to-play game. Expect official players and teams, deep tactical depth, and an improving interface for touchscreens.iPhone / iPadSwing Copters (Free + IAP)Yes, the sequel to Flappy Bird, from developer Dong Nguyen. This time, instead of flapping a bird horizontally while avoiding pipes, you’re zig-zagging a propeller-headed character upwards between platforms and swinging hammers. Manages the dubiously-impressive feat of being even more difficult and frustrating than its predecessor.iPhone / iPadAssassin’s Creed Memories (Free + IAP)Assassin’s Creed as a card-battling freemium game? A bold idea, and one that works pretty well, although early App Store reviews indicate it’s a bit Marmitey in its appeal. You build up your assassin and its kit, then join online guilds for 20-on-20 multiplayer battles. It certainly has potential.iPhone / iPadPac-Man Friends (£2.99 + IAP)If the thought of Pac-Man re-imagined in a freemium game borrowing its level structure from Candy Crush Saga bothers you, avoid this. But if not, you may wish to give Pac-Man’s latest mobile comeback a try: it’s a new spin on the traditional ghost-chasing pill-chomping action.iPhone / iPadEpic Eric (£0.69)Another indie title worth your money: this is a physics-based platform game with lots of leaping and swinging, as you work your way through 45 levels as one of two heroes: knight Eric or princess Erica. It’s very well put together, with some fun secrets to discover en route.iPhone / iPadStunt Gal (£0.69)Ninjas, squirrels, pirates and more in this fun arcade game, as you try to escape a collapsing building with the help (or, more frequently, hindrance) of its cast of characters and obstacles.iPhone / iPadThose are our picks, but what have you been enjoying on iOS this week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section.•40 best iPhone and iPad games this year (so far)
It’s time for our weekly roundup of the best newAndroidapps and games to have emerged on the Google Play store.As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app.Want more apps? Browse previousBest Android Appsroundups on The Guardian. And if you’re looking for iOS apps, browse the archives ofBest iPhone and iPad appsroundups instead.APPSMIX by Camera360 (Free)This is a spin-off from the well-regarded Camera360 photography app: pitched as a “companion to Instagram”, it has lots more effects and filters to tweak your shots, with lots of scope to mix up your own settings (hence the title).Grabble: The Fashion Finder (Free)There have been plenty of apps promising to help you find clothes to buy, but few have made a lasting impact. Can Grabble buck the trend? It looks good: capable of browsing UK retailers including Top Shop, ASOS and Net-a-Porter, with a simple, accessible interface.Fragment (£1.20)More photography here, with a nifty (if somewhat novelty) app to turn your snaps into “prismatic art” then share them on various social networks. You choose frames, shapes and patterns, then use intuitive touchscreen controls to make a mini-masterpiece (or a mess).WeTransfer (Free)Online, WeTransfer is a simple way to share large files with friends. Its Android app is just as useful: you can upload up to 10GB of photos and videos, entering friends’ email addresses to send them a link to the files. Good for sharing after large communal events – weddings, for example.Line Toss: Photo Sharing (Free)Social network Line clearly didn’t consult a British slang expert when naming its new photo and video-sharing app. Still, if you are a Line user – and the numbers are growing outside its native Japan – it’s a neat way to share and sort your snaps and videos with friends.Delvv: Your Personal News Feed (Free)Isn’t that Facebook or Twitter? No, Delvv is one of a group of apps aggregating news stories for you to read, based on your interests. Advanced users can add in RSS subscriptions to tune their feed, but it’s accessible enough for anyone to use.SpinMe Alarm Clock (Free + IAP)I’ve not yet met the alarm clock capable of getting me out of bed without at least three bleary-eyed presses on the snooze button. SpinMe might be the cure for that bad habit: to turn the alarm off, you have to get up and spin around holding your phone. Fun, if punishing.Wakie (Free)It’s officially the week of Android alarm-clock apps. Wakie is an even stranger idea, but quite fun: you set an alarm, then get a phone call – for 60 seconds maximum – from another Wakie user at that time. And you can do the waking if you like too. Sounds creepy, but the community seems friendly.Folr (Free + IAP)Finally, Folr is the latest location-tracking app, designed to be used (with permission, obviously) to keep tabs on your nearest and dearest. Parents are likely to be its key audience, although the developer is angling for schools to use it too.Tiny Tower Vegas for Android.GAMESTiny Tower Vegas (Free + IAP)The two previous Tiny Tower games – Tiny Tower and Star Wars: Tiny Death Star – were both brilliant. This one is pretty good too, at first glance: you build a pixelly hotel and casino, filling its floors with gambling, and then popping in to play yourself.Madden NFL Mobile (Free + IAP)EA’s American football franchise returns to Android for a new season, in its recently-adopted guise as a free-to-play game. Expect official players and teams, deep tactical depth, and (hopefully) less server issues as the game gets into the swing of things in the coming weeks.Calculords (£1.76 + IAP)This is one of the most inventive games on Android at the moment: a turn-based card-battling game with a twist: maths. You have to solve sums in order to deploy your troops in a series of battles. It’s addictive and clever.Swing Copters (Free)Yes, the sequel to Flappy Bird, from developer Dong Nguyen. This time, instead of flapping a bird horizontally while avoiding pipes, you’re zig-zagging a propeller-headed character upwards between platforms and swinging hammers. Manages the dubiously-impressive feat of being even more difficult and frustrating than its predecessor.They Need To Be Fed 3 (£1.19)The previous They Need To Be Fed games were fab, and this continues the trend: a beautifully-crafted platform adventure with a “360-degree” schtick that means you’re not restricted from going in one direction. Excellent stuff.Ascension (Free + IAP)Card-battlers are now ubiquitous on mobile devices, but Ascension was one of the first good ones back in 2011. It’s taken its time to come to Android, but is well worth a look if you’re a fan of the genre: collecting cards to form your deck then exploring its deep battle strategy.Five Nights at Freddy’s (£1.81)One of the scariest Android games you’ll play this week, here: a conversion of the equally spooky PC game. It sees you playing a security guard in a restaurant, keeping an eye on its animatronic animal mascots – with a murderous plotline bubbling in the background. Creepy, but very good with it.Deep Under the Sky (£1.99)A psychedelic feast for the eyeballs, here, with a game that’s a bit reminiscent of PlayStation classic Fl0w. You guide a jellyfish through 80 levels on the dark side of Venus – be quiet, space biology experts – enjoying the visuals as you go. A relaxing treat.Mountain (£1 + IAP)Mountain is very silly, but fun too: you create a giant mountain that hangs in space, then watch it get hit by the weather and various items of flying junk. Yes, that’s it. But in an age of timer-based freemium games, checking in on this is a breath of fresh (mountain) air.Pac-Man Friends (Free + IAP)If the thought of Pac-Man re-imagined in a freemium game borrowing its level structure from Candy Crush Saga bothers you, avoid this. But if not, you may wish to give Pac-Man’s latest mobile comeback a try: it’s a new spin on the traditional ghost-chasing pill-chomping action.Fionna Fights - Adventure Time (£0.60)Finally, the latest game based on the marvellous TV show Adventure Time, this time with Fionna, the female version of hero Finn in gender-swapped episodes. It’s a colourful, fun action beat-em-up.Those are our picks, but what have you been enjoying on Android this week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section.•40 best Android games of 2014 (so far)
A set of 8 links for you, as picked by the Technology teamAlbum sales hit historic low, falling below four million sold in week &gt;&gt; Rolling StoneThe music industry has struggled in recent years as consumers have shifted from physical CDs to MP3s, but even the digital side has been hit hard in 2014: Digital album sales are down 11.7% for the year, and à la carte downloads are down another 12.8% according to Billboard. Illegal downloading has no doubt eroded much of those digital sales, but it's the emergence of legal streaming sites like Spotify and Pandora that has also chipped away at overall sales. Taylor Swift's "Shake It Off" had 544,000 digital sales this week partly because the track isn't available on Spotify, forcing fans to download the song (or watch it on YouTube, where it has already accrued 46m views).Xiaomi continues as China's number one manufacturer &gt;&gt; Kantar WorldpanelDominic Sunnebo, Kantar's strategic insight director:"Considering the success of rapidly growing local brands in the Chinese market, it will be only a question of time before they seek further expansion internationally in a similar way to Huawei, and more recently Xiaomi". The same success however is not shared by all local brands such as ZTE, Lenovo and Oppo who have seen their shares come under real pressure recently.Android has been instrumental to the success of Chinese brands, and also for smaller local European brands such as Wiko, which have helped grow Android's market leading share in Europe to 75.1%. [Across the five largest economies, Germany, UK, France, Italy, and Spain] Apple still retains second place with a 14.5% share of the market, while Windows takes third, accounting for 8.5%.In Great Britain, Samsung's share of the market has been boosted from 32% to 36% compared with the same time last year. Samsung's success is mainly thanks to its new flagship handset – the Samsung Galaxy S5 – performing strongly. The Galaxy S5 was the best selling model in the UK in July, taking 11.5% of handset sales.Samsung'a Galaxy S5 has been notably successful in attracting former customers of Apple and HTC, Kantar says.Microsoft confirms 1,050 Finnish jobs to go as union negotiations end &gt;&gt; Yle Uutisetunions and employers' groups sat down at the end of July for a series of negotiations which have now ended, paving the way for many of Microsoft's previously announced plans to go ahead.Under the measures, a former Nokia research and development centre in Oulu will close, with further details of reductions in other areas to be announced at a later date.Microsoft said they intend to carry out the majority of the reductions by the end of the year.Meanwhile the firm announced that its mobile phone handset development operations would be concentrated in Salo and Tampere, with the Salo plant focusing on the higher-end Lumia devices, while the Tampere plant will work on cheaper models in the Lumia range and basic handsets.Microsoft claims biggest white spaces trial in world &gt;&gt; Rethink WirelessOnly about 14% of the Namibian population is using the internet, according to ITU estimates, and the MyDigitalBridge Foundation aims to increase this and, as chairman Hylton Villet put it, to "facilitate appropriate private-public sector initiatives to ensure the underserved and unserved communities in Namibia are included in the technology landscape".The project comes under the auspices of Microsoft's 4Afrika Initiative, which launched in February 2013. "Internet access is a fundamental pillar in Africa's leap forward towards a sustainable knowledge economy," commented the firm's general manager for Africa initiatives, Fernando de Sousa, in a statement.IDC lowers tablet projections for 2014 as demand in mature markets levels off &gt;&gt; IDCIDC anticipates that price pressure on tablets with smaller screen sizes (less than 8 inches) and evolving tablet usage in emerging markets will fuel that unit growth. While average selling prices (ASPs) are expected to stabilize at US$373 in mature markets in 2014 due to the shift to larger screens and cellular-enabled tablets, ASPs in the rest of the world will decrease to US$302, representing an annual decline of 10%. As an illustration of evolving tablet usage, shipments of tablets featuring a built-in option of voice calling over cellular networks in the Asia/Pacific (excluding Japan)(APeJ) region reached 25% this quarter, representing annual growth of 60%. This trend suggests that end users in this region are looking for a single device that can meet their needs in terms of voice communication and media consumption, and for some that single device is a tablet and not a smartphone."Driven primarily by small devices, we expect the rest of the world to account for the majority of shipments in the years to come," said Jitesh Ubrani, Senior Research Analyst for the Worldwide Tablet Tracker. "But in terms of dollars spent, medium- to large-sized devices in North America and Western Europe will still produce significant revenues."40% of US adults already have a tablet, according to Pew Internet. The next 50% might take slightly longer than four years to get one.MSN Messenger is shutting down after 15 years of memories &gt;&gt; The VergeMicrosoft's MSN Messenger, or Windows Live Messenger as it's now known, will be fully retired on October 31st. The software maker originally announced its plans to shift users over to Skype last year, but Microsoft kept the service running in China. After October 31st Chinese Messenger users will need to use Skype, bringing an end to 15 years of the service.Why some privacy apps get blocked from the Android Play store &gt;&gt; WSJ Digits blogGoogle Tuesday removed a smartphone app called "Disconnect Mobile" from its Android Play store because it violated a policy prohibiting software that interferes with other apps.Interference was precisely the point of Disconnect Mobile, a privacy tool aimed at stopping other apps from collecting data on users. In the six days it was available in Google's store, it was downloaded more than 5,000 times.Disconnect, a San Francisco startup that spent a year and $300,000 to develop the app, says it was careful to build its product according to Google's rules, but that the policies are so vague that Google could, in essence, ban any app in its store."It's like a Kafka novel – you're getting kicked out or arrested for reasons you don't even know," says Casey Oppenheim, Disconnect's co-founder.Google has banned similar ad-blocking apps before because they, too, could interfere with other apps. "When we were kicked out, virtually every other ad blocker was kicked out as well," said Ben Williams a spokesman for Eyeo, maker of Adblock Plus, which was removed from the Play store in March 2013.Google declined to comment on the removal of Disconnect and other privacy apps. "Our policies are designed to provide a great experience for users and developers. That's why we remove apps from Google Play that violate those policies," a Google spokeswoman said.A failed experiment: how LG screwed up its webOS acquisition &gt;&gt; GigaomJanko Roettgers:[The Consumer Electronics Show] CES was approaching quickly, and LG's engineers [in Korea] ran out of time trying to make their complicated interface work, so the decision was made to go with the webOS launcher instead in order to have anything up and running at all."We got lucky," said one member of the original webOS team, who like others in this story declined to be identified by name.I've been told that this anecdote was symptomatic of many of the struggles the webOS team was facing across all parts of its operation, including engineering. Despite repeated requests, LG never hired more engineers for the Silicon Valley group. Instead, it put them at the mercy of engineers in Korea who were beholden to their local management, and frequently built features that the webOS team didn't ask for, or worse, had long fought against.On the engineering side, the webOS team also struggled with a culture clash of sorts that pitted company politics against its attempt to simplify the company's smart TV platform. Sources told me that LG had a policy in place to reward managers with bonuses or even promotions if their features were part of the final product. The result was a constant feature bloat, as everyone tried to add on one more thing.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
First day of September! Where did summer gooooo?!
I sent one this morning. My pal texted to say that she was in that most invidious of contemporary social tangles: someone was offering her a Kate Bush spare but she had already committed herself elsewhere. Me, I was busy thinking about emoji. I didn't have time to deal with someone else's heartache or their moral scruples vis-a-vis ditching an apparently iron-clad prior engagement. I scanned quickly through the available faces: there was one, all scrunched up in dismay about something or other. I decided it would do to convey a mixture of can-you-believe-it crossness and wrenching disappointment, selected it, added zilch and pressed send.Obviously, I could have replied simply: "AAAARGH!!!". That would have been quick and done the job. But being a wordy sort of person and also much given to fruitless rumination, I would have been more likely to spend 20 minutes and several paras (yes: even in a txt msg) trying to convey perfectly my empathetic rage at her thwarted desire and suggest half-a-dozen doomed compromises ("Perhaps if you left after the first course your great aunt wouldn't be too hurt?").But my timid scrunch-face puts me so behind the curve that I might as well start training carrier pigeons. A single emoji just doesn't cut the mustard any more, no matter how vigorous its expression; not when you can get cats with hearts for eyes, Roswell aliens, flamenco dancers, lavatories and cable cars (my favourite food item is something that looks very much like a deep-fried prawn. Why?). These more highly developed and extensive version of early emoticons – the :-) and :-( built from ASCII characters and used in texts and emails – have opened up serious new possibilities. The savvy and inventive are now sending entire communications, both public and private and on multiple platforms, in emoji, artfully stringing together expressive little yellow heads with pictures of dancing girls, umbrellas, snowmen, saxophones and aubergines (this probably means something like "signal failure&nbsp;at Thornton Heath. Don't put the moussaka on until afterEmmerdale"). And all in 144 pixels per&nbsp;symbol.Want to make yourself feel slightly nauseous and utterly baffled? Go toemojitracker.com(take note of the warning to epilepsy sufferers) and watch a screenful of pictograms and numbers tell you exactly how many and exactly which emoji are being used on Twitter at this very moment. Quite what you'd do with that information is another matter, but hey, knowledge is power.All of which brings us a very long way from the end of the last millennium, when Japanese teenagers started using emoji on their pagers (the word itself consists of e-, picture, mo-, writing, ji, character). By 2010, the Unicode Consortium, a software industry body whose 10 full members include Google, Apple, Microsoft and Yahoo, had approved a set of internationally standardised emoji; the following year, Apple incorporated them into iOS5. Now there are more than 800, with new characters added at regular intervals (the process to add one of your own devising, Unicode warns, is a long and formal one; essentially, you'd have to demonstrate it fulfilled a genuine communication gap). Their nature has begun to spark intense debate, most recently about the lack of diversity in available human pictograms; why, for example, are there numerous images of a white woman in a pink sweater in a variety of poses, but a single image of a brown-faced man in a turban?If we are beginning to construct and communicate in a new alphabet, one that transcends existing language even if it is still culturally specific, we surely wouldn't want it to begin by excluding vast swaths of humanity. We might also ponder what other uses it could be put to, given that a quick glance at Twitter suggests that it is currently deployed largely to compress fleeting social experiences and imbue them with a humorous, semi-ironised edge, or, rather poignantly, to suggest what you might rather be doing (dancing, drinking, getting a manicure) than what you actually are (working, hanging out the washing, clearing crap out of the gutter).They are, though, already popping up in our shared culture; just think back to March for Jesse Hill'sunofficial video accompaniment to Beyoncé's Drunk in Love(lots of symbols of Martinis, lips, cigarettes, diamonds and lightning strikes). "It's funny," the video producer toldVogue. "I've never been asked about how much I'm using emoji, and now all of a sudden people are calling me an emoji artist." And one even grander project has already taken place:the "translation" of Herman Melville'sMoby-Dick– all 10,000 or so sentences of it – into emoji, a feat masterminded by data engineer Fred Benenson, funded by Kickstarter and undertaken by more than 800Amazon Mechanical Turks(workers who perform laborious "human intelligence tasks" for a fee per task, so called because their labour is organised through an Amazon site).After they had turned 19th-century American epic prose into little pictures three times over, more workers voted on their favourite versions of each sentence, which is why I don't understand why the book's famous opening sentence, "Call me Ishmael", becomes, to my eyes at least, "telephone/man-with-moustache/yacht/whale/OK-sign". But I am undoubtedly missing something. Modernity,&nbsp;perhaps.On the bright side, we might wonder whether emoji represent a chance to be free, however temporarily, of the constraints and treacheries of language. Words give us the opportunity to express doubt, ambiguity, the finer gradations of thought, of course, but they can also act as multipliers of misunderstanding, as blunt weapons for banishing dissent, as vehicles for forked-tongue political&nbsp;rhetoric.Follow the way of the emoji and you will mourn the moment when you finally open your heart to the person who has meant the most to you. But you will also learn how much easier it is to get out of an unwanted date (flames + person running + heart broken in two), resign from a rubbish job (paper and pencil + briefcase + lit bomb + pink-sweater-girl waving goodbye + wine) or arrange to go out on the town (multiple possibilities, suggesting that this is what it's all about). Roland Barthes would have had a field day.
Price from £20,990MPG 55.4Top speed 135mphThe authorDr Raj Persaudtells a story about when he first started his training as a psychiatrist. He worked with a flamboyant consultant who used to diagnose his patients according to the cars they drove. After a session with a fraught businessman, for instance, he would sum up: “Drives a powerful Jaguar. Probably impotent.” Or after seeing an over-worked family man, he’d conclude: “Volvo owner. Must be paranoid.”Cars are an easy shorthand for labelling people and all of us have been guilty of judging others by what they drive. It’s fun, but ridiculously simplistic. Not least because cars all do essentially the same job – with varying degrees of panache and competence.And yet, despite knowing a car is just a car, I have been feeling sexy all this week and it’s down to the basic fact that I have been mooching round town in an Alfa Romeo. I’ve worn sunglasses and popped that second button on my shirt; I’ve sat with my arm resting on the warm chrome, the sun’s rays caressing the golden hairs of my forearm; I’ve… Sorry, where were we?The model that’s got me all worked up is the newGiulietta– one of the more eye-catching small vehicles you’ll see on the road today. The original, the Giulietta Sprint, first turned heads at the Turin Motor Show in 1954. It was the Italian marque’s first affordable sports car and made the fantasy of owning an actual Alfa Romeo a possibility for ordinary (and in my case, good-looking) motorists. Sixty years on and Giulietta is looking great for her age.Inside story: the plush interior with distinctive steering wheel.The reworked 2014 model comes with a new front grille, revised lights, a selection of cool wheel designs and a host of different colour choices. The changes are, as you would expect, discreet. Inside, Giulietta has been blessed with an all-singing “Uconnect” multimedia system, a redesigned and more intuitive dashboard, and a host of other cabin lifts and tweaks. Under the hood, every engine in the Giulietta range has benefitted from improved efficiencies and lower emissions, whether you opt for the 1.4 TB MultiAir or the 2.0 JTDM-2 150hp. It’s all good stuff, but (husky voice now) it doesn’t add up to more than some gentle flirting.To celebrate this 60th with style, Alfa has, therefore, also unveiled a Quadrifoglio Verde version. The special-edition car costs an extra 10 grand, but for that your Giulietta gets the full makeover. The Clover Leaf variant (doesn’t sound as appealing in English, does it, but Alfa has used the famous emblem on every one of its racing motors since the 1920s) is a high-performance car driven by the same, breathtaking 240hp, aluminium-block, direct-injection, turbo petrol engine that powers the deliriously goodAlfa 4Csupercar. It has optimised transmission and traction systems which make it even snappier from 0-62mph (just 6 seconds) and customised air-intake and exhaust units to make the most of the car’s famously rorty engine noise.The icing on the cake, however, is its launch-control system. This is one of those pointless extras that manufacturers fit to their cars to make us buy them. And we, like lobotomised lemmings, happily oblige. The system is activated by pressing the brake and accelerator pedals to the floor, then squeezing the down-shift paddle on the steering wheel and releasing the brake – the system then takes over the traction control, power delivery and transmission upshifts to maximise acceleration. It’s exhilarating and effective. But by the end of the first week you’ll only do it when you’re bored, lonely, trying to scare the kids or maybe impress a new partner… Oh, I get it, now.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
Fifteen months have passed sinceEdward Snowdenbegan to explain to us how our networked world works. During that time there has been much outrage, shock, horror, etc expressed by the media and the tech industry. So far, so predictable. What is much more puzzling is how relatively relaxed the general public appears to be about all this. In Britain, for example, opinion polling suggests that nearlytwo thirds of the population think that the kind of surveillance revealed by Snowden is basically OK.To some extent, the level of public complacency/concern is culturally determined. Citizens of Germany, for example, appear to be significantly more concerned about the Snowden revelations – and were so even before it was discovered that the NSA was bugging Angela Merkel's mobile phone. Germany was the European countrywhere Google's Streetview project ran into most opposition, for example. But German wariness about comprehensive surveillance is easy to understand: after all, half of the country lived for decades under the Stasi's comprehensive analogue surveillance. Germans know all about being watched.The relative complacency of the British, on the other hand, is also culturally determined. GCHQ emerged from Bletchley Park, and in the popular mind may still surfthe slipstream of Enigma glory. The halo effect of the James Bond movies may also have something to do with it, which is odd given that until comparatively recently the senior ranks of 007's employer harboured a nest of Soviet spies. Whenthe Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (Ripa)– the statute which ostensibly "legalises" everything that GCHQ &amp; co do in cyberspace – was going through parliament in 1999, those of us who campaigned against it were astonished to find that no more than a handful of MPs were interested. After all, their constituents weren't writing about it and they were happy to accept the home secretary's assurances that he was simply updating phone-tapping regulations for the digital age. This legislative indolence is a shocking case study of what complacent ignorance can do to a democracy, and we are now living with the consequences of it.It's tempting for tech-savvy folks to resort to elitist explanations for the general public's lack of concern. The general tenor of this tech critique goes something like this: the poor schmucks don't know the first thing about this stuff; otherwise they wouldn't be signing up for "free" services that read their email and exploit their personal data; nor would they be storing their files – unencrypted – in the cloud, or enabling location services on their smartphones. And so on. And if they weren't schmucks, why would they fall for the official mantra that "if you have nothing to hide, then you have nothing to fear"?Given that we live in a democracy, contempt for the electorate seems an unwise approach to persuasion. Those of us who worry about this stuff need to think differently. In particular, we need to get to the root of the problem – which is that people find it hard to imagine where current technological, political and economic trends could be taking us. To put it bluntly, we are heading for a society that is comprehensively surveilled. And I mean comprehensively: if you think it's bad now then just wait until the "internet of things" bandwagon really rolls.The problem we have, therefore, is one of imaginative failure. If people couldreallyconceive what it would be like to live in such a society, then perhaps they would be more concerned about what is happening now. But most of us don't have imaginations that are up to the task. Fortunately, though, there are people among us who do. We call them novelists.In a previous era, the most prophetic evocations of where we were headed were produced by two Old Etonian novelists – George Orwell and Aldous Huxley. Orwell thought we would be destroyed by the things we fear, particularlycomprehensive surveillance. Huxley conjectured thatwe would be destroyed by the things that delight us. As it happens, we've wound up with both. NSA/GCHQ are doing the Orwellian stuff, while Google, Facebook, Apple, Yahoo, Microsoft, Skypeet alare taking care of the Huxleyan side of things.But now we need an updated imaginative visualisation of what lies further ahead. Step forward Dave Eggers, whose novelThe Circleis a vivid account of what happens when a digitalnaifenters the force field of an organisation that is a mash-up of Google and Facebook.As a novel it has some flawsbut as a picture of a possible future it is utterly, utterly brilliant. Put it on your Xmas list now.
Diablo IIIwill be familiar already to console and PC gamers who lapped up the original and they will positively devour thisUltimate Evil Editionas Blizzard's action RPG reaches its zenith.Revamped from both its 2012 and 2013 releases, the graphics are the most obvious improvement, with the slick visuals gorgeously rendering your wizard's magic as it blasts into a gaggle of Hellions. As with the original, the task is seemingly straightforward: hack, shoot or spell (depending on the chosen class of warrior) a way through endless hordes of evil, while looting bodies and the landscape for new, more powerful weapons, elixirs and armours. The sheer scale of the enemy armies, however, soon makes life tough.The character levelling is well executed and there's a tangible feeling of growth as your avatar powers through the levels. Much of the fun comes from partaking in a spot of local multiplayer action, but the addition of postboxes, from which you can send loot to online friends, and the nefarious foes – overpowered baddies who will flit between you and your contacts' games to wreak havoc – are a welcome nod to the online future of the series.
The latest in a line of boldly stylised indie games to infiltrate PSN,CounterSpyis a stealth-'em-up set in an alternative cold war timeline where imperialists and socialists compete to launch nukes at the moon. The tone is more Austin Powers than James Bond, though the soundtrack is definitely best served with a shaken martini. As a perpetually silhouetted Counter agent, players must sneak through a never-ending selection of randomly generated 2D bunkers, collecting microfilms, blueprints and as many pieces of 1960s cold war paraphernalia as can be crammed into a briefcase.Jumping into cover allows a switch to a first-person view in order to snipe heads and security cameras, while being spotted pushes the Defcon gauge up – reach maximum and you're given 60 seconds to end the alert or burn in nuclear armageddon. It's certainly enjoyable and competent at what it sets out to do, but a little let down by the repetitive gameplay and limited structure.
Sony's Santa Monica Studio, British developer Honeyslug and artist Richard Hogg have combined for an extraordinary collaborative piece of work with exceptional results – and not inconsiderable style and wit. Playing as a bizarre worm-like being, you have to thread your way through multiple worlds in an inter-dimensional game of hide and seek with your worm buddies. It's a questionable task because really the game has no explicit objective and&nbsp;is content to let you roam the world unhindered.The minimalistic approach to design&nbsp;keeps everything simple, allowing the player to concentrate on exploration rather than mastering&nbsp;complex controls, while diving through mysterious portals leads to quirky landscapes reminiscent&nbsp;of the more trippy scenes fromYellow Submarine. Each of these new worlds is oddly endearing, ranging from surreal pool parties through floating oceans to coloured dot factories.This genuinely feels like an adventure into the unknown, which is an achievement nowadays, although the non-linearity ofHohokum, while&nbsp;its&nbsp;biggest strength, can make the latter part of the game frustrating.&nbsp;It&nbsp;will doubtless perplex many players, but anyone open-minded&nbsp;and looking for something different will have a ball.
The room is large, the seating tightly packed, the giant screens on the front wall displaying every moment of the action to the rapt, packed audience. At the front, two five-strong panels focus intensely on the task that the audience is watching: playing a video game.This is the visible face of eSports, a fast-rising category of video gaming in which it is not just about playing the game or getting a high score; it is about being seen, known and performing in public, just like chess or darts players – but with a far younger, more excited demographic.Video gaming is a global phenomenon that has just seen its biggest deal –the $970m acquisition by Amazon of Twitch, the platform favoured by gamers to play and watch live streams.Explaining the move, Amazon founder and chief executive Jeff Bezos said: "Broadcasting and watching gameplay is a global phenomenon and Twitch has built a platform that brings together tens of millions of people who watch billions of games each month."It's hard to grasp the magnitude of what's going on – but it's a tectonic shift in which games and gamers online are recreating the thing that has made TV so gigantic and well funded: the must-watch live event, against which lucrative ads can be sold.Twitch offers live streaming (or archived footage) of people playing video games such as the multiplayer battle scenarios ofCall of DutyorLeague of Legends(the most popular PC game in North America). Naturally, Twitch has a young, principally male demographic.League of Legendshas "events" on Twitch: about 32 million people tuned in for theSeason 3 World Championships. Yes – the third season of the world championships. It's video games as event TV."If you've been to a major sporting event, you'll feel exactly the same atmosphere at an eSports tournament," says Chris Trout, producer of the Gfinity eSports tournaments. "In my honest opinion, it's far better, the crowd never stops. If a team goes down a few rounds, it's not even close to being over, there's always the chance of a comeback. At the G3Call of Dutyfinal, the crowd was incredible; at theLeague of LegendsLCS event at Wembley arena, the atmosphere was indescribable."Jonathan Beales, an eSports organiser and commentator, says the crowd is part of the experience. "They get behind their teams in the same way people do at football games. The crowd will roar when a map or level is completed, there's a sigh of disappointment for a mistake. Make no mistake, this is a spectator sport. The demographic is aged between 12 to 45, some with ambitions of making it as a pro player. Then when a team comes offstage there's a clamber for selfies and signatures as fans look to get their shirts and posters signed by the pro players. The players love the adoration, and the fans get to see and talk to their heroes close up."But the physical venues are the merest tip of the iceberg compared to Twitch, which has more than 55 million visitors a month, each of whom spends an average of 106 minutes viewing it every day, and more than 600,000 people generating content. It doubled in size between 2012 and 2013 and it isn't slowing down; in February, a study in the US suggested that at peak times Twitch was responsible for 1.8% of all online traffic – well behind Netflix (32%) and Google (22%), but ahead of the US TV catchup service Hulu (1.7%), Facebook (1.5%) or Amazon (1.2%). Why? Because like Netflix and Google's YouTube, Twitch delivers video, which consumes huge amounts of bandwidth compared to simple photos or text."Twitch is absolutely integral to the eSports scene. It's the platform that gave it a voice; to imply it created eSports isn't much of a stretch. It was certainly one of the leading factors to eSports blowing up as a spectator sport," says Rhea Monique, co-founder ofLolking, aLeague of Legendsfansite. "Additionally, you can watch events overseas you would never be able to see. OGN is a great example of this. Twitch has a subscription service set up where you pay monthly to be able to see the Korean eSports scene forLeague of Legends. As Korean teams are formidable opponents that usually juggernaut European and American teams, this allows people unique insight into how different the meta is there and how each team plays out the game."Twitch is not alone. Major League Gaming, which organises big videogame tournaments in the US, was formed in 2002 to focus on eSports, holding live tournaments and events that have been broadcast on standard TV. But it too is creating its own streaming service, mlg.tv.The thing that should have conventional broadcasters worried is that Twitch and Major League Gaming have rediscovered, and recreated, "event TV" – but on the internet. And unlike broadcast TV, Twitch offers a "chat screen" where people can write their comments on the action.What has made online gaming into a spectator sport? Faster connections, faster computers, better software for handling millions of video streams at once (because they aren't "broadcast" like a TV signal, but sent individually to each receiving computer), and the growing awareness among gamers of each other's existence.Holding live events on the internet recreates exactly the condition that TV channels have exploited for years to make their money: scarcity. There's only one time that you can watch an event live. That pushes up advertising rates and therefore the sites' revenues.Spectating and "kibitzing" – offering commentary (wanted or not) – has always been a part of games culture. In the heyday of the amusement arcades in the early 1980s, teenagers would gather around the screens of top players watching them compete for high scores in games likeDefender,Donkey KongandPac-Manand televised eSports tournaments had their start at around the same time. The US showStarcadeand Britain's long-runningGamesMasterseries featured competitive gaming as a major component.The modern kibitz-style version has its roots in South Korea in the early 2000s, where strategy games became hugely popular in the many "PC Bang" online gaming cafes. By 2006, science fiction simStarcraftwas in effect the national sport – that year's pro-league final was attended by 50,000 people packing out an outdoor arena on Seoul's bayside; millions more watched from home, via cable channels dedicated to pro-gaming. The top players became celebrities, complete with screaming fans and hugely profitable endorsement deals.South Korea had one key advantage: widespread high-speed internet, which meant huge numbers of people could watch the action without video dropouts or stutter. Since then, other countries' infrastructure has begun to catch up – and video-sharing and especially streaming on a gigantic scale has become not just possible, but routine."The popularity of eSports grew from about 2004 – as bandwidth increased, so gameplay quality increased across continents to create a village of competitive gamers," says Beales. "eSports and the technology which supports and drives it all grew and evolved together. Things changed dramatically whenCall Of Duty 4arrived in 2007. The map designs and playability made it a perfect platform for an eSports game.Call Of Dutyis an annual event – there's always huge excitement when the [new version of the] game is released in the middle of the year, but the real focus is on the multiplayer element.Gamescom[in August] in Germany is always a big event when the latestCall of Dutymultiplayer is unveiled."There are now several national and international eSports leagues and tournaments – Major League Gaming, European Gaming League, the Electronic Sports League. Currently,League of LegendsandDota 2are the most popular competitive titles for the "multiplayer battle arena" games. Last year theLeague of Legendsfinal packed out the 20,000-seater Staples centre in Los Angeles, while more than 30 million gamers watched from home via Twitch.In August the globalDota 2championship boasted a crowdsourced top prize of $10m – more than three times the Wimbledon top prize.Twitch is central to the scene. All the major eSports events are broadcast through it, and pro-gamers regularly stream their own practice and tutorial sessions, giving fans insight into key games and tactics – often at a cost: stars can supplement their incomes by setting up subscriber-only channels.Another vital role fulfilled by eSports is "game balancing", the art of improving games to make them fair for everyone. "Professional gamers are the fastest to master the game so they're the first to recognise weaknesses, exploits, or weapons that are too powerful," says Michael Condery, co-founder of Sledgehammer, the developer ofCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare. "By working with them, it makes the game better for everyone – no one wants to get their ass kicked because a certain character class is over-powered."But in the end, Twitch and other live gaming sites fulfil the one essential role that any service must: bringing the fans and the players closer together, while keeping the ecosystem healthy. "Fans show their support [for pro teams] by purchasing merchandise," says Gfinity's Trout."They will donate and pay a monthly subscription to the players to continue what they are doing on Twitch." And if there were any doubt that Twitch is here to stay, he adds: "I've seen a few fans go as far as to get tattoos."
Cambridge, some time after the end of term. Demob-happy undergraduates, dressed for punting and swigging wine from the bottle, seem not so much to be enjoying themselves as determinedly following rites of passage on the way to a privileged future. I am heading towards the biggest, richest and arguably most beautiful college: Trinity. Of the 90 Nobel prizes won by members of Cambridge University in the 20th century, 32 were won by members of Trinity. Its&nbsp;alumni include Isaac Newton, Wittgenstein, Bertrand Russell and six prime ministers.The porter's lodge is like an airlock, apparently sealed from the tribulations of everyday life. But inside the college, pacing the flagstones of what is called – all modesty aside – Great Court, are four men who do not take it for granted that those undergraduates actuallyhavea&nbsp;future. They are the four founders of the Centre for the Study of Existential Risk (CSER), and they are in the business of "horizon scanning". Together, they are on alert for what they sometimes call "low-probability-but-high-consequence events", and sometimes – when they forget to be reassuring – "catastrophe".At their head is a 72-year-old cosmologist,Martin Rees. The honorifics jostle at the start of his name: he is Professor Martin Rees, Baron Rees of Ludlow, OM FRS. He isthe Astronomer Royal, a fellow of Trinity, formerly a master of the college and a president ofthe Royal Society. In newspaper articles, he is often described simply as Britain's "top scientist". In 2003, Rees published a book calledOur Final Century. He likes to joke that the reason his book was published in the US as Our Final Hour is because "Americans like instant gratification". In the book, he rates the chances of a "serious setback" for humanity over the next 100 years at "50-50". There is an asteroid named after him – 4587 Rees. I can't help thinking, in light of his apocalyptic concerns, that it would be ironic if 4587 Rees crashed into the Earth.But these four men are less concerned with acts of God than those we have created ourselves: the consequences of being too clever for our own good. They believe there is a risk that artificial intelligence (AI) will challenge our own.In a talk at&nbsp;a TED conference, Rees invoked another danger:&nbsp;that "in our interconnected world, novel technology could empower just one fanatic, or some weirdo with the mindset of those who now design computer viruses, to trigger some kind of disaster. Or catastrophe could arise from some technical misadventure – error rather than terror."Rees proudly introduces his colleagues. There isJaan Tallinn, a meditative Estonian computer programmer and one of five co-founders of Skype. There is a courtly Indian economic theorist,Professor Sir Partha Dasgupta("Partha's very concerned with inequalities across time," Rees says). And there isHuw Price, a laid-back philosophy don – specifically, the Bertrand Russell professor of philosophy at Cambridge.The group originated in 2011, when Price and Tallinn met at a conference on time in Copenhagen. Two weeks later Price, who had just taken up his philosophy post, invited Tallinn to Cambridge to meet his new colleague, Rees; all three shared a concern about near-term risks to humanity. "Fate," Price recalls, "was offering me a remarkable opportunity." After a two-year gestation, the CSER gets properly up and running next month. The first of a dozen post-doctoral researchers will be taken on, some of whom will be embedded with science and technology firms. There will be seminars on synthetic biology, decision theory and AI. Already there have been meetings with the Cabinet Office, the Ministry of&nbsp;Defence and the Foreign Office.As the salutary clock of the Great Court looms behind them, the irresistible image of our leading brains uniting to save the planet: X-Men: The Last&nbsp;Stand, The Four Just Men, Guardians Of The&nbsp;Galaxy. Between photographs, Rees and Dasgupta chat about the relationship between facts and prejudice in global warming forecasts, and I wonder if they ever talk of anything other than the end of the world.Before we met, I was sent a&nbsp;vast amount of reading material, including a paper touchingly described by Dasgupta as "somewhat informal", but still containing much algebra. Most strikingly, the material included four worst case possibilities:1 The disaffected lab workerIn which an unhappy biotech employee makes minor modifications to the genome of a virus – for example, avian flu H5N1. A batch of live virus is created that can be released via aerosol. The lab worker takes a round-the-world flight, stopping off&nbsp;at airports to release the virus. The plausibility of this scenario is rated as "high", and "technologically possible in the near term". As the CSER men note: "No professional psychological evaluation of biotech lab staff takes place." A&nbsp;similar leakage might also happen accidentally, and I was sent, as a matter of urgency,an article from the Guardianabout how researchers at the University of Wisconsin-Madison had modified strains of bird flu to create a virus similar to the 1918 Spanish flu that killed 50m people. The project was condemned as "absolutely crazy" by the respected epidemiologist Lord May.2 Termination riskIn which pressure to stop climate change results in the adoption of stratospheric aerosol geo-engineering. Global warming is checked, but CO2levels continue to rise. The geo-engineering then ceases, perhaps as a result of some other catastrophe, such as world war. This triggers what is called "termination risk": the sticking plaster removed, the warming gets much worse, quickly. Half the Earth's population is wiped out. I was advised that geo-engineering appears possible in the near term, but the scientific consensus is against adopting it.3 Distributed manufacturing3D printing is already used to make automatic weapons. These weapons can work, but are liable to explode in the user's hand. Still, the refinement of these techniques may allow nanoscale manufacture of military-grade missiles. "This would require a range of technological advances currently beyond us," I was told, "but believed by many scientists to be possible."4 All of America is turned into paper clipsIn which AI undergoes runaway improvement and "escapes into the internet". Imagine a computer swallowing all the information stored in Wikipedia in one gulp and generally gaining access to everything human-made. (The already-emergent "internet of&nbsp;things" means that, increasingly, devices can communicate between themselves; our homes are becoming more automated.) This rogue machine then uses human resources to develop new and better technologies to achieve its goal. I was given the for-instance of a paper clip making software that turns the whole of America, including the people, into paper clips. This is "not technologically possible in the next 20 years. Estimates range from 20 years to 300 years to never. But the potential negative consequences are too severe not to study the possibility."This is what these four men are up against.Martin Rees: ‘A few crazy pioneers might establish colonies in outer space. But nowhere out there is comfortable, so we have to solve the problems here.’ Photograph: Jon Tonks for the GuardianRees works from rooms overlooking the cloistered Nevile's Court, which contains the Wren Library, which in turn contains two Shakespeare First Folios. He is small, dapper, silver-haired, and offsets his doomsday scenarios with a puckish humour. He invited me to sit on the couch next to his desk, "where sometimes I&nbsp;sits and thinks, and sometimes I just sits". As I&nbsp;wondered about this quote – Winnie The Pooh? – Rees was off, speaking so rapidly and softly as to be almost thinking aloud. "On a cosmic timescale, human beings are not the culmination, because it's taken four billion years for us to emerge from protozoa, and we know the solar system has more than four billion years ahead of it." Over the next half-hour, he tells me that we are "the stewards of an immense future", and that we have a duty to clear the looming hurdle presented by technological advance. "A few crazy pioneers – and we wish them good luck – might tunnel through the period of danger by establishing colonies in outer space, but nowhere out there is as comfortable even as the South Pole, so we have to solve the problems here."He moves easily from such vertiginous concerns to survival on the micro level. For example, those weirdos or fanatics leveraged by technology. He believes that "bioterror probably won't be used by extremist groups with well-defined political aims – it's too uncontrollable. But there are eco-freaks who believe there are too many humans in the world." He argues that bio-engineering and AI&nbsp;have "an upside and a dark side. A computer is a sort of idiot savant. It can do arithmetic better than us, but the advances in software and sensors have lagged behind. In the 1990s, Kasparov was beaten at chess by the IBM computer, but a computer still can't pick up a chess piece and move it with the dexterity of a five-year-old child. Still, machine learning is advancing apace."This brought us to theAmerican futurist, Ray Kurzweil, a man there would be no point in inviting to dinner at Trinity. He is said to live on 150 pills a day, hopeful of surviving until what he calls "The Singularity" – the point at which humans build their last machine, all subsequent ones being built by other machines. A merger of man and machine will then offer the prospect of immortality for those who would prefer not to die. Rees considers Kurzweil "rather wild".Rees recalled a lecture in which he (Rees) discussed one of the supposed routes to immortality: cryonics, the freezing of the body with a view to&nbsp;future resurrection. Rees had said he would "rather end his days in an English churchyard than a Californian refrigerator". It turned out that someone in the audience had paid £150,000 to have his body frozen; another had paid £80,000 to have just his head frozen – and both were indignant. "They called me a deathist," Rees recalls, laughing, "as if I were actually in favour of death."I say I was disturbed to discover that Kurzweil is now a director of engineering at Google. "Yes," he says, "but to be fair to Google, they're grabbing everyone in this area who's outside the tent and pulling them into the tent." Does he detect a faultline between gung-ho Silicon Valley and more sceptical Europeans – the old world versus the new? He does not. "They have a can-do attitude, and they've a lot to be proud of." He stresses that CSER wants to work with the technologists, not against them.A clock chimes: time for lunch – one good thing about Trinity is that it is nearly always time for a&nbsp;meal in the Great Hall. My dining companion is Professor Huw Price. Price grew up in Australia, hence – perhaps – his small gold earring. As I settle down to my quiche, he tells me that a year or so after CSER came together, he realised there might be a tie-in between the kind of philosophical questions he'd been pursuing and AI questions. Last February, he visited theMachine Intelligence Research Institutein Berkeley, California, "where&nbsp;they are trying to make sure that AI that&nbsp;begins with human-friendly goals will stay friendly when it starts to improve itself. Because&nbsp;the computers of the future will be writing their own programmes." I stop him right there. "Why should we let them do that?"Price seems slightly taken aback by the question. "Well, imagine any scenario where more intelligence is better – in finance or defence. You have an incentive to make sure your machine is more intelligent than the other person's machine." The strategy of these machines, he continues, would depend on what they thought other machines running the same software would do. I&nbsp;interpose another "Why?" and Price takes a long drink of water, possibly processing the fact that he has an idiot on his hands.These machines would all be networked together, he explains. "Now, if a machine is predicting what another machine with the same software will do, it is in effect predicting what it [the first machine] will do, and this is a barrier to communication. Let's say I want to predict whether I'm going to pick up my glass and have another drink of water in the next five minutes. Let's say I assign a probability of 50% to that. Assigning a probability is like placing odds on a bet about it. Whatever odds I'm offered, I can win the bet by picking up the glass and having a drink. Assigning probabilities to my own acts – there's something very fishy about that."Huw Price: ‘We won’t be able to turn the machines off, because they are smarter than we are, and are controlling all the hardware.’ Photograph: Jon Tonks for the GuardianThis leads to the question of how to make the machines see that cooperation might be the rational option. Price asks whether I have heard of the philosophical conundrumthe Prisoner's Dilemma. I have not. He explains: "Two prisoners are charged with a crime. They're held in separate cells, and there's no communication between them. They're separately told that if neither confesses, they both get six months. If they both confess, they both get five years. If one confesses and the other doesn't, the one who confesses goes free and the other gets 10 years. So each would be better off confessing, whether or not the other confesses. But the best outcome for both is if they remain silent." For this to happen, each prisoner would have to predict that the other will act in their mutual interest. So the goal is to build this facility into self-programming machines in order to forestall monomaniacal behaviour. To avoid America being turned into paper clips.By now we are back in Rees's rooms. Price seems to have the run on them, and I am reminded ofthe Beatles in Help!– all of them living in the same house. Rees returns as I trepidatiously ask Price, "Why can't we just turn the machines off?" There is a mournful silence. "That's not quite so easy when you're talking about a global network," Rees says. "We won't be able to turn them off,' Price adds, "because they're smarter than we are, and they're controlling all the switches and all the hardware."But he concedes that the machine intelligence people at Berkeley have given some thought to this. "One of the strategies is to make sure it [the&nbsp;self-improving machine] is perfectly isolated. I&nbsp;think they call it the oracle model." So,&nbsp;an advisory superintelligent machine; a consultant. "But perhaps," Price muses, "it can do things to persuade humans to give it more direct connection with the world." "Bribery?" I&nbsp;gasp, excited at this new possibility. Price nods. "If it knows enough about human psychology."Ask Professor Dasgupta for his worst-case scenarios, and he will politely suggest that "these&nbsp;have already happened – in Sudan, in Rwanda". We speak in the Fellows' Parlour, which&nbsp;is less chintzy and sherry-stained than the&nbsp;name suggests. But still there are deep leather armchairs, oil paintings and dainty coffee cups, and I know what Dasgupta means when he&nbsp;says, "We here are having a tremendously good time – those of us who are lucky."Still, we are "disturbing nature". In sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia, depleted wetlands or forests might cause starvation; they could also trigger viruses, sectarian conflict and over-population (couples having more children to compensate for low survival rates). Dasgupta is concerned about sustainable development. He remains extremely forbearing when I say this has surely been a buzzword for many years. "I think you are right. A&nbsp;lot has been written on the matter, but much of it remains unfocused. What should be sustained, when you think about human welfare, not just now but tomorrow and the day after tomorrow? Turns out it's not GDP that's important, not some notion of social welfare, not&nbsp;life expectancy."The key criterion, Dasgupta says, is a notion of wealth that includes natural capital. "It's about getting your economics right. We are supposed to be economists; governments are run by economists, but a whole class of assets are missing from their dataset." He is concerned with what he calls "inequality across time", the effects on future generations of our short-sightedness about natural capital. He speaks as a man with three children and five grandchildren. Professor Price also has two grandchildren. When he brought Jaan Tallinn to dinner at Trinity, other diners queued up to congratulate him on founding Skype, since it enabled them to stay in touch with their children and grandchildren.I mention this to Tallinn and he says, "I&nbsp;sometimes joke that I can take personal responsibility for saving one million human relationships." Tallinn has six children himself. He is 42, and does not look old enough to have six&nbsp;children. When I first saw him in the Great Court, I took him to be a postgraduate, and one of&nbsp;the more modestly dressed ones. He has an interesting and charming manner. When asked a&nbsp;question, he will pause, apparently going into a&nbsp;dream state, muttering, "Yes… thinking." He will then make a rather formal pronouncement. He says things like, "The term 'singularity' is too vague to be used in a productive discussion." He&nbsp;is very fond of the word "heuristics".Tallinn part-funds a number of horizon-scanning organisations, including a couple at Oxford University, and the Machine Intelligence Research Institute at Berkeley. He explains the challenge of getting rich people to donate to the study of technical risks. "Your evolutionary heuristics come back to the idea of a future roughly similar to what it is now. You give to the community as it is now, to benefit a similar community in the future."People can't imagine the technological future, in other words, and I tell him I have difficulty with the idea of America being turned into paper clips. Can he come up with a less surreal example of AI run riot? Another pause. Then Tallinn says it might be easier for me to think of AI being tyrannical about control of the environment. "I was born behind the Iron Curtain," he says, "and I remember heated discussions about large-scale terra-forming projects, such as reversing the direction of the river Ob, or putting up large reflectors into space to heat up Siberia." That did the trick. I could see the danger of entrusting such work to AI.Tallinn says that, for trouble to occur, "The machines don't have to have the opposite interests to ours. We don't exactly have the opposite interests to chimpanzees. However, things are not looking up for the chimpanzees, because we control their environment. Our interests are not perfectly aligned with theirs, and it turns out it's not easy to get interests aligned."I thought about this as I travelled home on the&nbsp;train, which was full of people playing with their smartphones. I had suggested to Tallinn that&nbsp;people were in love with technology, so believed their interestswereperfectly aligned with it. He said: "There is a feedback loop between human values and those technologies. If&nbsp;you create something that improves human life, people will reward you for it, but this is not a&nbsp;universal law of physics. This is something that&nbsp;applies at the start of the 21st century. But artificial intelligence is not going to care about the&nbsp;human market. At the moment, the human is&nbsp;in the loop. That can change."
Volvo have always been good at safety. They were first to introduce the three-point seatbelt as standard equipment over 50 years ago. Now, this car, with its Driver Support Pack, does a&nbsp;lot more than tether you to your seat in three places. It will stay the right distance from the car in front, and stop you from drifting into the wrong lane. It will warn you of an impending collision, and brake for you if&nbsp;you fail to. It can recognise pedestrians and cyclists, see in your blind spots and read road signs.It can even read your mind and will tell you off, in Swedish (you can choose the gender of your rebuker), if you sit in the driver's seat with the wrong attitude.All of which, bar one (I won't say which), are true. The Driving Support Pack costs an extra £1,900, but if it saves your arse, or the arse of a pedestrian or the Lycra-covered arse of a cyclist, then that's £1,900 well spent. It's still possible to crash, but it makes it as hard as possible. A&nbsp;lot of other manufacturers now do&nbsp;some, or all, of the above, but I've found Volvo do it best.Safety aside, there is a lot else that impresses about the XC60. This 181hp diesel engine is plenty powerful, but it is also quiet and smooth, as well as surprisingly economical and unpolluting for a&nbsp;car of this size. On the outside, it is not unhandsome. Inside, it is a pleasant place to be, comfortable and tasteful, plus there's loads of room, for offspring and stuff.I don't like it, though. Basically because I don't like any SUVs. Maybe you cannot call this one a gas-guzzler, but it does guzzle space – in the supermarket car park, on the school run, on city streets that weren't built for cars of this size. Not like its monstrous and loathsome big brother the XC90, maybe (plus all the other big ones: Range Rovers, the Discovery, X5s and Q7s), but still an unnecessary amount.How can I call myself a proper motoring journalist, you say, when I worry about gas-guzzling and don't like big cars? Well, to be really honest, I don't (call myself a proper motoring journalist, about which more next week). But I do actually enjoy driving, on the rare times circumstances allow. And I'm not enjoying driving the XC60. I've got the power, and the poise; I'm comfy and a bit smug. But I don't really feel any connection to the road; it's an oddly disengaged experience.I would get the equivalent estate, the V60, instead. It's nicer to drive, as well as cheaper, has nearly as much space inside, for offspring and stuff, and is available with all that arse-saving equipment. Plus, it has the advantage that I won't disapprove of yours. Your arse, that is.Volvo XC60 D4 Automatic R-DesignPrice from:£32,480.Top speed:130mph.Acceleration:0-62mph in 8.5 seconds.Combined fuel consumption:60mpg.CO2emissions:124 g/km.Eco rating:7/10.Cool rating:6/10.
Not content with dominating the market for digital music, smartphones and tablets, Apple is about to outline a future in which wearable devices monitor everything from our heart rate and caffeine intake to saturated fats, blood sugar and oxygen levels.At its biggest launch event yet, on 9 September in Cupertino, California, Apple is widely expected to announce a health-based wearable device that will help capture biometric data about activity, setting its sights on the $3tn (£1.8tn) US healthcare industry.Its first partnerships with hospitals and health organisations were announced in June 2014 with the launch of the Healthkit software for developers. The software will allow developers to build bespoke health apps for a broad range of medical needs. Crucially, Apple claims, the user will retain control of the data but can share it with a doctor if he or she wishes.Dr Mohammed Al-Ubaydli runs Patients Know Best, a startup that helps patients and doctors share medical records securely. "Healthcare is fundamentally an information industry," he says. "It's about knowing the right thing about the right patient at the right time. The information tools currently available are poor, and there's a large opportunity for tech companies to fix that."The healthcare industry is a potentially lucrative market, worth about 10% of the economy of developed nations. In Britain, more than £100bn a year is spent on the NHS, according to the Department of Health.Ubaydli says: "The only way to provide more healthcare for the people living longer and growing older, without more money, is to use technology. There's is a big demand for technology in cash-crunched healthcare and it's a very interesting time."The 9 September event will also unveil Apple's highly anticipated larger iPhone, with a 4.7in screen to compete with bigger smartphones from its rivals Samsung, LG, HTC and Sony, as well as Microsoft. With 48% of US smartphone users expected to upgrade their handsets in the next 12 months, Apple – under the leadership of its chief executive, Tim Cook – hopes the launch will trigger its biggest sales period yet.It will mark the biggest change to the dominant smartphone since its inception in 2007, a response to pressure from competitors' smartphones with 5in-plus screens that have proved popular. A 5.5in iPhone is also expected, although it may not appear immediately.The new iPhone is expected to have a hardened, more scratch-resistant screen. Apple has patents and expertise in sapphire crystal – the third-hardest mineral – suggesting that the iPhone could have a sapphire screen similar to those used on high-end watches.Apple is also expected to introduce a mobile payments service that would use the iPhone like a credit card to pay for goods. A Financial Times report indicated that Apple would build contactless, short-range secure communication technology into the iPhone that probably links in with its Touch ID fingerprint sensor for authorising payments.The company has long resisted near-field communication (NFC) technology (short-range communications such as contactless payments), which has been available in many Android smartphones for years, despite holding patents for mobile payments systems using NFC.The company has one of the largest databases of payment details in the world, with about 800m credit cards on record through its existing iTunes store. It could use them to ignite the mobile payments market, which has struggled to take off, despite efforts from PayPal, Google, mobile phone providers and banks.For Apple, it is more than gadgets; it is about data and what can be done with that data, and it has partnered with Cambridge University Hospitals NHS in the UK, and Mount Sinai, UCLA Health and Stanford Hospitals in the US, among other healthcare institutions.But the company told developers this week that it would be strict on data privacy and that they must not sell user data to third parties. They will be able to share data for medical research purposes, but only with explicit consent from the user.Companies such as Nike will be able to collect health data on users through Apple's new Health app, which will launch for new and existing iPhones in September, providing information for both the individual and the healthcare industry.Fitness trackers and smartwatches are an expanding market, with 9.7m wearable devices sold worldwide in 2013 and 22.3m forecast to be sold by the end of 2014, according to the research firm CCS Insight. Samsung, LG, Sony and Motorola each have smartwatches that connect to smartphones, while hundreds of manufacturers, Jawbone, Misfit and Fitbit among them, sell fitness trackers that count steps, calories and sleep.What to expect on 9 September• A larger 4.7in iPhone with a scratch-resistant screen produced in the US using a new process to build a sapphire-glass laminate. Some expect Apple to also launch a larger phone with a 5.5in screen, further exploiting the consumer appetite for "phablets" - or very large tablet-phones• A smart, wearable device that can monitor and collect health data and connect wirelessly to an iPhone. The device could track steps, calories and activity worn all day and sleep through the night• More details on Apple's Health data service, which collects information from wearable and medical devices and makes it easy to understand, and in a format patients can share with their doctors• Sources in the chip-supply industry indicate Apple could be about to introduce an NFC-based contactless payments system, which would be built into the iPhone and coordinate with Apple's Touch ID fingerprint reader - so that paying for items would be confirmed via fingerprint or tapping in a code on the phone.• Partnerships, and launch information for HomeKit, a software framework that will allow users to control smart devices in the home through a central app on the iPhone or, perhaps, the Apple TV set-top box• An emphasis on privacy around user data: Apple is trying to emphasise that it doesn't make money from advertising, and so doesn't need to collect user information to relay to advertisers• More details about Apple's Continuity system, which allows people to make and take phone calls and send text messages via an iPhone on an iPad or Mac computer, even when the phone is in another room.
Thanks in part to smartphones, it’s harder than ever to switch off outside of office hours.But Germany is hoping to tackle that. Their employment minister, Andrea Nahles, has proposed an “anti-stress” law which wouldban contact outside of work hours– including email. Some German companies already implement such a policy.Here in the UK, that’s not quite the case, and for many, email doesn’t stop when you leave the office. But we’re sure you’ve come up with ways and means to avoid them in the evenings and on weekends.Have you had to explicitly tell someone, or even your boss, to stop emailing you when you’re not at work? Or is just a matter of putting your smartphone and computer away? Or are out-of-work emails just part and parcel of office life now?Let us know in the comments below.
Google has become the latest tech giant to get into the drone business.The company announced late on Thursday that its advanced-research arm, Google X, is developing a system of drones to deliver goods. Amazon announced a similar scheme to great fanfarebut little actual progresslate last year.The search giant said it had been exploring self-flying vehicles for the past couple of years, and had now hired a new team leader, Dave Vos, a longtime expert in automating systems for aviation, to take Project Wing from research to product.In a recent research trip in Australia, the company delivered packages including chocolate bars, dog treats and cattle vaccines to two farmers in Queensland.The deliveries were made by a 1.5m-wide (5ft) single-wing drone prototype that has four propellers that move into different positions for different stages of flight. Packages fit into a gap in the middle of the wing.Google considered several methods of actually delivering the package including by parachute (like in The Hunger Games) and landing the drone. The latter proved problematic with Google fearing that people might risk injury by getting too close to the drone’s rotors while fetching their delivery.In the Australian experiment Google settled on using a kind of fishing line to lower the payload to customers from about 150 feet above the ground.“Self-flying vehicles could open up entirely new approaches to moving goods – including options that are cheaper, faster, less wasteful and more environmentally sensitive than what’s possible today,” Google said in a release accompanying the announcement.“Throughout history, major shifts in how we move goods from place to place have led to new opportunities for economic growth and generally made consumers’ lives easier. From steam ships to the railroads, from the postal service to delivery services like FedEx and DHL, speed has reshaped society not only with greater convenience but also by making more goods accessible to more people,” it said.Commercial drone use remains all but banned in the US. Amazon and others are lobbying the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to relax the rules, and in June the FAA approved the first commercial drone flight over land, for the energy giantBP.In its release, Google highlighted examples of where drones were already in use, including in Bhutan, where drones are being used to make deliveries of medical supplies to remote clinics and in Namibia, where the World Wildlife Fund is trying to spot wildlife poachers.But concerns remain in the US and elsewhere over safety and privacy. Amateur drone operators were accused of interfering with firefighters in forest fires last year. Chris Anderson, the former editor-in-chief of Wired magazine and now chief executive and co-founder of drone-maker 3D Robotics,said he expected heavy restrictions on drone use due to safety and privacy concerns.
Sales of music downloads may have peaked and already tipped into decline, thanks in part to the rise of a range of streaming services, from Spotify and Pandora to YouTube and SoundCloud.In thefirst part of my interview with industry analyst Mark Mulligan, he discussed why this long-predicted trend has still been a shock for many people within the music industry, and suggested that streaming subscriptions are still mainly for early adopters.What does this mean for some of the big companies in the digital music world: Apple, YouTube and Spotify? And just as importantly, what will it mean for the musicians who write and play the songs being streamed on these services?What Apple should do nextApple is holding its next big press launch on 9 Septemberin Cupertino, where it’s expected to unveil one (or possibly two) new iPhone models, as well as its long-anticipated wearable device. But now thatthe company owns streaming music service Beats Music, Mulligan thinks it could spring a surprise.“The easiest thing they could do, if they had an appetite for it, would be to make a commitment to swallow more of the costs of a £9.99 monthly music subscription, if they’re willing to bundle it into a device,” says Mulligan.“With those two levers that you pull to decide how big the addressable market is, if you take away price as one of those barriers, Apple will have so much more of an addressable market than the other services.”Why would Apple bother to suck up some of the costs of a subscription music service in 2014, when it makes so much money from its non-music products – devices, obviously, but on the digital content side, apps too?Mulligan thinks the growth of standalone music services like Spotify is a threat to Apple, because they appeal to the same kinds of people who are its most valued customers.“iTunes was a really important part of their velvet handcuffs: people invested time and money building up big iTunes collections, which could only be easily enjoyed on iTunes-compatible devices,” he says.“It’s one reason why people would tolerate those other things that weren’t so good: they might see a whole bunch of Samsung and HTC devices with better features and cameras, but they’d upgrade to the new iPhone anyway.”With a Spotify subscription – complete with your personal music collection as streaming playlists rather than stored files – switching to Android gets one step easier.“The irony is that this is coming full circle for Apple, and why it will move back towards a music-centric phone sometime. It always used music as a way to sell devices and win customers, yet now music might be a thing that may lose them customers,” says Mulligan.We’ll see what 9 September brings on that score.YouTube’s role in digital musicMulligan’s latest report –The Streaming Effect: Assessing the Impact of Streaming Music Behaviour– is blunt in its portrayal of YouTube’s role in the digital music industry, and the threat that it poses to subscription services.“34% of music streamers won’t pay for music because they get all they need for free from YouTube,” it claims, before adding that “YouTube quite simply sucks too much of the oxygen out of the competitive marketplace for premium services to compete effectively.”YouTube is preparing to launch its own paid subscription music service, though. Mulligan thinks it faces a bigger challenge than expected in persuading people to sign up for it – but that ultimately, this may not be a big headache for the company.“If you’ve built a business around free and attracted a user base predominantly for that reason, the vast majority won’t pay if you start trying to persuade them to. And how much can you afford to take away from ‘free’ in order to make the paid seem better, before you start losing your free audience?” he says.Mulligan says there are “good people” within YouTube and Google who want to make a success of digital music – including getting people to pay for it, rather than just use YouTube for free – but suggests that the planned “Music Key” service is more about pacifying major labels.“Fundamentally, Google gets everything it needs from the music business out of YouTube as it is at the moment, so doing this new paid service is mainly about doing it because the labels are pushing them to do it, and that’s how they protect the relationships for the core business, which is YouTube,” he says.“Google is saying ‘okay, we’ll do you a thing, we’ll put a bit of effort into it. But when you see the scale of Google, where they do $9bn-$10bn acquisitions, the money they’ve put into this has been very small,” he continues.“They can get a music service out there that keeps the big labels on board, but Google is very good at killing things off very quickly. I wouldn’t be surprised if they do this, and then two years down the line say ‘oh, we’re killing this, we tried but it didn’t work…’.”Can Spotify boss Daniel Ek find a successful streaming music exit? Photograph: Andrew Testa/REXFear for Spotify’s futureWhat happens to Spotify in a world where Apple could suddenly bundle Beats Music into tens of millions of new iOS devices, and where Google has YouTube – whether or not its paid subscription version takes off?Spotify is the most successful streaming music service for paying customerswith its 10m subscribers, and there has been speculation that it may go public in autumn this year.Mulligan thinks there is more riding on the latter ambition than people realise, pointing out that there hasn’t yet been a big “exit” for a streaming music company that relies on striking direct licensing deals with labels and publishers.This rules out Pandora (which went public in 2011) and Last.fm (which sold to CBS for $280m in 2007) because they used “statutory” licences that didn’t require direct negotiations with labels. And he discounts Beats Music because “it wasn’t the reason Apple paid $3bn for Beats, even if it helped the deal go through”.Why does it matter if Spotify can or can’t go public or be bought for billions of dollars? “If Spotify can’t have a big exit, the doubts that are already there around digital music could become potentially fatal,” he says, noting that other digital entertainment areas, like mobile games, have seen plenty of such exits.“We need Spotify to be a success for there to be capital flowing back into this space from investors. If it can’t, it raises really big questions about who is going to invest in a standalone digital music company at scale.”Artists aren’t out of the woodsFinally, what does this transition from sales to streams mean for artists: the songwriters and musicians who make the music being streamed on Spotify, YouTube, Beats Music and other services?The basics are clear: streaming services pay money to labels, publishers and collecting societies, who pass that on to musicians according to the terms of their contracts.How the initial payouts are calculated is sometimes clear and sometimes not: Spotify pays 70% of its revenues out andlaunched a website to explain the process, while YouTube is famous for its non disclosure agreements (NDAs).How the money is then passed on to songwriters and artists? Well, that’s another murky can of worms entirely. Musicians’ complaints about their streaming income aren’t just about low royalty cheques, but also about the music industry’s ignoble history of artists getting screwed whenever there’s a big format change.Is the current transition bad news for artists? Mulligan doesn’t mince his words. “Artists are going to feel pain for at least another four to five years, just as they did in the first four to five years after iTunes launched,” he says.“But the story there is that artists came out the other side: very few artists would do anything other than consider iTunes royalty payments have been a fundamentally important part of their income.”He thinks that when more than 100m people are paying to stream music, the picture will be much brighter for artists, but notes that “with probably 37m subscribers globally by the end of this year, it’s not at the end of 2014 or even 2015 that artists are going to suddenly say ‘yes, streaming makes sense to me now’.”“They will all see significantly less money coming from downloads and CDs over that time though. It’s going to be a painful year or two for the average musician. And it may be harder for the people in the music world before this change to adapt than it is for artists born into this world,” he says.A new generation adaptingMulligan, who is a musician himself, sees a new generation of artists and managers growing up with streaming, and figuring out how to forge sustainable careers through it.“If you’ve got a fanbase of 30,000 fans, and 10 years ago you could have relied on half of them to buy your album, maybe now that’s 10%, but 50% to 70% will stream your music,” he says.“That’s a larger number of them engaging with you directly, and you’ve got more chance of getting them to do other stuff, which is going to be key when you think about how an artist makes up this shortfall [from sales] over the next two to three years.”Mulligan doesn’t dodge the question about whether some artists and smaller labels will survive this tough period, suggesting that there will be “collateral damage” of those who find it difficult to adapt. He’s optimistic about newer artists though.“Nowadays, as an artist you’re less likely to get signed until you’ve done a couple of years do-it-yourself to prove you have an audience. And if an artist has spent two years doing that, they’ll have a much clearer idea about all these changes,” he says.“There’s a generation of artists who are essentially having to behave like mini-labels themselves in their early career. They’re going to be much better equipped to forge sustainable careers out of music, particularly compared to artists from the 1990s.”•Seven reasons Google might buy Spotify•Apple iTunes exec: ‘Creatively, we really believe in albums’•Why YouTube might block indie labels•Five big challenges looming for streaming music services
Streaming music is cannibalising download sales. It’s a phrase anyone connected with the music industry is hearing a lot about in 2014.It’s a technological shift causing a lot of panicked flapping about, from an industry that counts “panicked flapping about at technological shifts” as one of its core skills.It shouldn’t be this much of a shock: the idea of an eventual transition from downloads to streams – and from ownership of music to access to it – has been talked about since the early days of legal download stores.What’s causing the flapping in 2014 is the current pace of the transition, as big music markets – the US especially – have been taken by surprise with how quickly download sales appear to have peaked, then tipped into decline.Many musicians are worried that royalties from streams of their songs won’t make up for falling sales in their CDs and downloads. Meanwhile, some music executives who see the rise of streaming as inevitable are fretting at losing control of the transition.They see that rising streaming income may make up for falling downloads income, but fear it’s not quite ready to balance out that plus the ongoing decline in CD sales. And they also worry about whether they can persuade enough people to pay for streaming music, rather than getting it for free.This is why the “streaming music is cannibalising download sales” debate is much more complex than just “Spotify up, iTunes down”. And it’s also why a trend that’s been predicted for nearly a decade is causing shock now that it’s actually happening.Someone who’s been tracking these questions through those years is Mark Mulligan, initially as an analyst at Jupiter Research, and more recently from his own Midia Research company, where he’s worked as a consultant to labels, telecommunications companies and music startups.His latest report, co-authored with Alun Simpson, isThe Streaming Effect: Assessing the Impact of Streaming Music Behaviour, which tries to get to the bottom of the transition from sales to streams.Ownership to accessThe report claims that by the end of 2014, 37m people around the world will be paying for streaming music, while 210m will be listening for free on advertising-supported services.It also warns that 45% of people who buy downloads are now also streaming music, and that so far, only 15% of free music streamers have signed up for a trial of a paid service. And Mulligan has views on why the current transition is shocking people, despite having been talked about for a decade.“Anything that requires consumers to adopt new technology always takes a while to happen. It’s very easy to over-estimate the near-term impact of a new technology, and under-estimate the long-term impact. We’re somewhere between those two points with music,” he says.“Every new generation of music service steals from the last generation’s customers. Apple stole Amazon’s best CD buyers, and Spotify has now stolen those same customers from Apple – or at least the same sorts of people.”Mulligan thinks that because only Apple really made a success of selling music downloads, that market is still weighted towards more tech-savvy early adopters: the kind of people who were also first to realise that paying £9.99 a month for unlimited access to something like Spotify was a good deal.“You’re seeing the most valuable music customers, who were happily buying bucketloads of downloads from iTunes, now finding they can get even more value by spending £9.99 a month,” he says, adding that for these people “downloads were always a transition technology”.Cheaper subscriptionsMulligan thinks there are two levers that can be pulled to make digital music more successful: the first is how many people are prepared to pay for music, and the second is what price they’re prepared to pay for it, and how the music industry meets that demand.On the first of those, he’s blunt about the challenges. “Five years ago, we were talking about peer-to-peer piracy, and now we’re talking about YouTube. Free music is ubiquitously available, and there will always be more of a preponderance of people not paying,” he says.“It doesn’t matter how easy you make it for people to pay, however much more you pack into the paid offering, there will still be a majority of people who will not pay because they do not need to.”He suggests that £9.99-a-month subscription services like Spotify, which has convinced 25% of its 40m active users to pay, are “pretty much as good as you can get” for this conversion rate.Mulligan cites research from British industry body the BPI, which suggested that the top 10% of music buyers in the UK spend an average of £10 a month on music. “That 10% translates to around 5% of the total population, which is roundabout where subscription music services are now,” he says.“Spotify and its rivals have done a great job reaching those people, but the price thing is absolutely crucial to go further: we need to be in a position where there are £4-£5 price points much more.”MusicQubed – one of Mulligan’s clients – which is trying a £1-a-week service based on the UK’s top 40 singles chart. He wants to see more companies trying cheaper but more focused streaming services, to capture more mainstream music fans.“It’s the only way you can do it: the only way labels are going to go near anything at that price. They are terrified of cannibalising the top table, and stealing a load of Spotify customers,” he says. “We need more in the way of mid-market pricing, but the US and UK digital guys at the major labels are the ones that are most cautious and have most to lose.”•Part two: What’s next for Apple, Spotify, YouTube and artists
