ModelMercedes S500Price&pound;73,770Top speed155mph (limited)Acceleration0-62mph in 5.6 secsConsumption23.9mpg (combined)Emissions281g/km (road tax band F)At the wheelDoug EllisThey'd rather walkJeff BezosOn the stereoMahlerEn route forMarlowMy dear, your chauffeur is going to simply adore the new Mercedes S500. It's got everything he needs to make life easier for you - fully automatic boot lid (opening and closing), back doors that go "chonk" when he shuts them for you, and absolutely buckets of room for his darling little legs. Why, he even gets a "dynamic multi-contour seat with massage function". And you might even let him turn it on sometimes. Only 20 minutes a month, though. You don't want him getting ideas.The S500, specifically in the mighty, long-wheel-base version, is the long-reigning king and queen of saloon cars. Outside of your bulletproof, presidents-only Mercedes Maybachs and your royalty-ready Bentleys, saloon cars do not come more deluxe. The rule by which all other luxury cars are measured and found wanting, it sets the standard for diligence in construction and it would be no surprise if, every time one left the factory, the entire workforce lined up and sighed to see it go.It's true that there are prettier saloons. (The new model has had the Maybach's brutalist back end clamped on to it, which hardly raises its cuteness quotient.) It's equally true that there are smaller ones. (A long-wheel-base S500 is not a great deal shorter than a hockey pitch, and not a great deal narrower than a combine harvester.) But are there saloons that bring driving - or, more importantly, being driven - closer to the sensation of being wrapped in a freshly laundered silk sheet and blown up the road by a warm wind? I suspect not. I took my S500 on a potentially enervating, possibly even misanthropy-inducing journey involving a section of the M25 and emerged, back at home, refreshed and brighter of eye. It was the best night's sleep I've had in ages.At the same time (and here's the truly cunning thing), despite the S500's thick-glassed remoteness and unstinting commitment to silence wherever it is achievable, it is nevertheless set up - in the steering and suspension departments, and via the 5.4-litre V8 engine - to offer a tangible and unmistakable driving experience, rather than the absence of one, which seems to be the ambition of, for instance, the Audi A8 and similar CEO-wagons.And this despite the fact that it has been clearly built to withstand shelling. The owners most commonly associated with the car, of course, are large-bottomed German bankers, but memory informs me that Gary Barlow of Take That had an S-class Mercedes, back in the days when the possibility of being torn to shreds by hysterical tweenagers was an inflexible part of his working day. If it passed muster as an all-terrain, personnel-protecting armoured tank for Gaz from the That, then it's hard to imagine the circumstances in which the S-class's strength would be found wanting by the rest of us, outside of an actual war situation.And even if war did break out, you could probably hole up for a month or two in the car's spacious rear cabin, which is essentially a container ship with windows wherein each passenger gets a leather couch to slide around on and rejoice in his or her own personal sense of entitlement.If I had a reservation about the S500 during our time together, it was that it seemed to be very quick to tell you when you shouldn't be driving it. Disappointingly early on in my trial period, as I was drifting almost silently through south London with an insufferably superior look on my face, I heard a light but unmistakable gong sound. I assumed this meant that drinks were now being served in the drawing room. In fact, as a diagram on the dashboard was soon to reveal, I was suffering some pressure-loss in my rear offside tyre, possibly as the direct result of what we call, in the motor reviewing trade, a "puncture".In a cheaper car, you would probably have asked a passenger to sit on the other side to make up the balance and then floored it all the way to the nearest Kwik-Fit, arriving on a hemispherical alloy and half a pound of semi-ground rubber. In the S500, it seemed prudent, and somehow altogether more tasteful, to pull over and sort it - or rather, pull over and get it sorted by a SWAT team of fully qualified and officially endorsed Mercedes engineers. One's only disappointment was that they weren't actually following behind in an unmarked van, as a matter of course. You do pay a premium for this kind of car, after all.Carefully restored to optimum pressures, the S500 is still outside as I write, but when it eventually goes, I shall remove my peaked cap and hold it to my chest in the vehicle's honour. It may be true that you can't get the staff these days, but, on the plus side, at least you can get the car.
...was launchedhereyesterday.
We've not really talked about the bizarre trail of detritus that followed from the handheld Gizmondo's mysterious disappearance late last year because it's all seemed way too weird to be real. The plot reads like a made-for-TV daytime serial, with mob bosses, explosive car crashes, stolen vehicles and multi-million dollar scams. Thankfully, GameRevolution has summarised the important issueshere. In brief:Gizmondo is set up by the Swedish mob in order to swindle investors out of buckets of dough. A Gizmondo store opens up on Regent Street. A whole load of financial wranglings deeply pads the pockets of the top brass, including mob-connected executive Stefan Eriksson. Gizmondo costs an investment company a profound amount of money ($320 million between 09/04 and 09/05) and goes belly-up. The Regent Street store disappears. Eriksson crashes his limited edition Ferrari Enzo on the Pacific Coast Highway, blames it on a fictional person called "Dietrich", is "rescued" by a couple of people claiming to be from US Homeland Security (but in fact are from a transit service based in a shop called "Homer's Auto Service") and disappears before the authorities realise that the Mercedes he usually drives is listed on Scotland Yar's stolen cars list.And there are guns in this story too.For more detailed information, head toGame Revolutionfor a handy overview, to theLA Timesfor information on the link between Homeland Security and Homer's Auto Service,Kotakuforextensivecoveragethroughout this whole ordeal, and even more fromGamesindustry.biz.You can also see what we thought about the Gizmondo ore-controversyhere.ThanksBen!
PlayStation 3 will be released worldwide - yes, that includes Europe - in November. While this is later than Spring 2006, it is far sooner than the 2007 launch that we expected in Europe. Of course, chances are that the launch will resemble the 360 farce, with limited stock and busy Ebay auctions. Still, this is good news. I'm off to see Miyamoto now, but there will be plenty more about this on the blog today.
The iPod Observer reports:Microsoft spokesman Tom Pilla on Tuesday confirmed with iPod Observer that his company initiated the creation of the iPod packaging parody video that was first reported last month. "It was an internal-only video clip commissioned by our packaging [team] to humorously highlight the challenges we have faced RE: packaging and to educate marketers here about the pitfalls of packaging/branding," he said via e-mail.
Yes, 1up.comclaimsthat Sony has finally confirmed what everyone has been expecting: that the launch of PS3 will be delayed, perhaps until November in Japan. The story comes from a newspaper, Nihon Keizai Shimbun, and there's a familiar culprit in the frame:"There aren't many details out right now, but Sony says issues over the finalization of copy protection technology related to their Blu-ray disc drive is the cause of the delay," says 1up.We've know for some time that discussions over the format's encryption technology are still going on so this seems feasible. Whatever the case, this is one of the most drawn-out delay sagas of recent years. Is thisreallythe conclusion? And where would a November launch in Japan leaveus? Spring 2007?Gamesindustry.biz hasmoreon the story. And of course Ken Kutaragi is addressing a conference tomorrow where he's expected to announce details of the PS3 launch - so all could be revealed. I mean properly this time.
I'm interviewing the elder statesman of Nintendo gaming tomorrow morning (UK time) so if you have any other questions to add to the ones alreadysubmitted here, then please stick them in the comments asap. I can't promise that he'll answer them, but it's worth a try.
It's time to chat.
Over the past few weeks, episodic gaming has re-entered my consciousness, having slipped into the distance for lack of attention back in the late 1990s. However, three pieces of news, one fromHalf Life creators Valve(via Wonderland), one fromElectronic Artsand one from thecreators of the forthcoming episodic version of Sam and Max(both via Joystiq), plus discussion with some of The Guardian's other gaming bods has re-kindled my interest in the pay-as-you-play downloadable content model. What is it? What does it mean for the gamer? Who's already signed up?Episodic gaming is a distribution model which gives the consumer dribs and drabs of new content over an extended period of time. Think of it like the television showsLostor24; these programmes pull you in by introducing general information early, and then keep you hooked by unravelling new characters and plot devices in each episode. NESTA has a good definition of episodic gaminghere, but to snip,The accepted model is that an opening episode, or chapter as it is sometimes called, is distributed free as an internet download. A month or so later, the next chapter is introduced over the web for a subscription fee, and so on until the game's narrative is complete.What this means for the gamer is that you'll get continuously updated content, hopefully which reflects feedback given to the development company. Like with Massively Multiplayer Online Games which are updated by the designers with new land, ownership rights, objects and quests, content can be tailor made in response to the needs and desires of the consuming public. Of course, it also means that in the long run the publishers will pull more cash out of your pockets than with a one-off game. I could be wrong, of course, particularly as overheads will be reduced by removing the packaging, but it is business.It also means that games will be strung out as long as possible, reducing the number of sequels clogging up the shelves. Most titles which have annual updates will simply offer them as downloads, and sequels will only be released when there's a new technology or other hard-wiring that is completely different from the original.Unfortunately, if you're the type of gamer who completes a title in one sitting, this means that you'll have to wait for a critical mass of people to demand the next episode before you get your mitts on it. This may bore the power-gamer elite, who might find other products to pass their time.Game-wise, this should ensure the quality of releases. If you pay cash for something which is poor, it's unlikely that you'll fork over your next month's subscription for a less-than-adequate instalment. Constant user-creator interaction like that anticipated with the episodic model should benefit the games playing community, and will challenge the designer to make ever-entertaining products for an increasingly-demanding audience.So EA foresees this kind of thing happening within 10 years, Valve are already on the mark, and Telltale's episodic products are both here and on the cards. The Xbox 360 is another platform which has been fine-tuned for episodic content; expect that your community dashboard will light up soon with news of new products available for download.Episodic gaming could have a real impact on the retail sector, which is currentlyat loggerheads with publishersabout the appropriate high street price for current software. The shop owners are on our sides, kids - they want to keep the costs down at the pay point. However, if publishers like EA move to an episodic model and all new content is distributed digitally, the reduced business may destroy them.Of course, they'll come up with a way around this, like mobile phone content companies have. They rely upon the idea that consumers want to pick something up with their hands and take it away; most of the mobile phone content you get can be done without packaging whatsoever. It's just there to placate the final generation of touchy-feelies before the next, digitally-reared ones move to abstract ownership.Episodic gaming is intriguing; it moves traditional videogaming towards the MMOG model, in which gamers have more control over what the next course of events will be. Now that the current generation of consoles can connect and high-speed connectivity has reached near saturation in the UK, mega downloads aren't a huge problem. Yes, it seems time to revisit episodic gaming again. It may just shake things up.
"Tonight I noticed that mars.google.com now has a CNAME record that points to www.google.com. This usually means that something is about to happen with that subdomain -- with the exception of calendar.google.com of course. So I started digging and you will never guess what I found -- a Google Maps type application that lets you view Mars," writesGarett Rogers at ZD Net.
This is one of those posts where all the information you need is in the title. Butcheck outakihabaranews.com for the piccies of Sony's new recorder, designed specifically for PSP users:"The MSVR-A10 is a Mr reader/recorder that supports the MPEG-4 AVC(H.264) format and encodes the video straight onto the MS in 320x240, which gives you between 2h20 and 4h10 of video on a 1GB MS (depending on the compression)."Can't see this one hitting UK shelves anytime soon. Or indeed, ever. But it's quite cute, isn't it?
Like most computer games conferences nowadays, theSex in Games Conference(forthcoming in early June) will feature a special machinima film festival with the best submissions of computer game-created animated movies that deal with the hot topic.From the IGDASex in Games SIG:The machinima show will highlight the wide variety of artistic endeavors where the film makers use game engines to create unique film pieces that showcase the melding of sex with games.If you have a yen for this kind of thing and have created a machinima film that fits the bill, send your submissions to sfc+at+evergreenevents.org.More information at the conferencewebsite.
A fascinating story came up over the weekend after reporters at theChicago Tribunerevealed that it had found the names of more than 2,600 CIA operatives, as well as a number of "secret" agency locations.But this wasn't the result of a Deep Throat. No Woodward and Bernstein insider info stuff here. No, the tools of their investigation? Just one:the internet.The newspaper obtained the information from data providers who charge fees for access to public records, but it did not publish the identities or other details of its searches, citing concern it could endanger the CIA employees.Through the data providers, the newspaper said it identified people by telephone listings, property transactions, voting records, and other financial and legal documents.People often quip that government intelligence is an oxymoron (what wags!) but at least in this case they've clearly failed to understand the links between technology and information. And for an intelligence agency, that seems a pretty bad failing - as well as a potential security risk (after all, remember that revealing the identity of a CIA operative is acriminal offencefor everyone outside the White House).Tin Foil Hat alertBut it also proves that there's a lot of data on you out there, even if you don't realise it.
Well it had to happen sooner or later. Last year, senators throughout the US busied themselves attempting to restrict the sale of violent games to minors - you may remember that Arnold Schwarzenegger oversaw the implementation of aviolent videogame billin California last October. Well now State Senator Tommy Kilby of Wartburg, Tennessee has put forward a bill making violent games illegal to everyone."The bill states games depicting violence against anyone including authority figures, such as police, should be outlawed,"explainsWate.com. Gamesindustry.bizelaborateson a story which seems all too predictable.Of course, the bill has little chance of being accepted and this may be about one senator merely attempting to raise his profile, but it's an interesting glimpse at where the conservative agenda may be heading this year.
"10 is a place for people who want to use technology to change the world. Every weekday at 10:00 am (PST) we'll update this site with a new video that highlights people, their passions and often the technology they are using. At the end of each week we compile these videos into a full length show with some extra surprises for you," says the sitehere.Spot the soft sell, copyright 2006 Microsoft....Update: Microsoft's Jeff Sandquist has nowblogged the launch....
By popular demand, the earlier edition of Monday's Chatterbox.
"TheBerlin Brain-Computer Interface (BBCI)- dubbed the "mental typewriter" - was created by researchers from the Fraunhofer Institute in Berlin and Charité, the medical school of Berlin Humboldt University in Germany. It was shown off at the CeBit electronics fair in Hanover, Germany," reports theCognitive Labs blog."The machine makes it possible to type messages onto a computer screen by mentally controlling the movement of a cursor. A user must wear a cap containing electrodes that measure electrical activity inside the brain, known as an electroencephalogram (EEG) signal, and imagine moving their left or right arm in order to manoeuvre the cursor around."The story concludes: "The next stage is to develop a cap that does not have to be attached directly to the scalp. This should make the device easier to use and cause less skin irritation for the wearer."Comment: Inteeresting, but this has been done before, eg seeThought control under your hat. According toBeyond the Big Barrier, an article by Toby Howard in Personal Computer World, February 1996: "The idea of using our brains to directly control a machine isn't particularly new. As far back as 1967, Edmond Dewan described experiments using subjects wired to an electroencephalograph (EEG), which records and graphs the electrical activity of the brain. With practice, the subjects were able to reduce the amplitude of their brains' alpha rhythms, to transmit Morse code to a teleprinter."
I was very depressed when I read veteran indie game developerJeff Vogel's column onRPGVault, claiming that independent games makers aren't the key to unlocking innovation in the games industry. Sigh.From the horse's mouth:These games are worthy and fun and contain innovation, yes. But incremental innovation. Not the new thing, but the clever twist on the old. In other words, the same sort of innovation that the big, corporate world regularly provides. And the sort of innovation you'd better get used to, because it's just about all you're ever going to get from now on.Is he just a depressed developer, distraught after years of beatings from major publishers? Please - someone out there who knows - say it ain't so!via/.
You can enter text or commands on an Origami ultra-mobile using a stylus or your finger, or by attaching a keyboard (since most models don't have one built in), but there's another option: DialKeys. It has been developed by Fortune Fountain Ltd and is included in the TouchPack software that comes with every UMPC. TheMicrosoft Origami blogon TouchPack says:The basic idea is that you hold the device in two hands and use your thumbs on the screen to type in text. It takes a little getting used to, but people are always amazed once they use it a day or two how good they get at typing with it.Update: As mentioned above,DialKeyswas developed by Fortune Fountain Ltd, and it's a standard Windows XP program. It shipped last August on theFujitsu Lifebook P1510, a very cool UMPC that (like theFlybook) converts into a Tablet PC.
Video nasties have dropped down the public agenda of late, perhaps because there is a new whipping boy: video games. Last week saw an outcry over Mark Ecko's Getting Up: Contents Under Pressure, a game in which the player aims to spray graffiti around a city.Tory MP Julian Lewis said: 'The problem is bad enough without commercially-minded idiots trying to make it worse.' British Transport Police Sergeant Andrew Pavitt said it 'glamorises a criminal offence'.But Ecko, a designer and former graffiti artist, rejected the criticism of his PlayStation 2 and Xbox game. Speaking from New York, he told The Observer: 'It underestimates the intelligence of the consumer. The medium of games is more intellectually challenging than TV or film, which are passive. In a game you learn the consequences of your actions. If you write on a wall, someone is going to come after you.'He added: 'Like a game about Mafia revenge, it's a fictional narrative. This is technological xenophobia, fear of the unknown.'Promotional material for the game states: 'A revolutionary, deep storyline written by Marc Ecko poses the question "What if graffiti could change the world?", demonstrating the struggle against authority while seeking to save a neighbourhood from an oppressive city government.'
Saab 9-5&pound;21,051 to &pound;29,536Top speed:155mphUseful extra:Kayak clipGood for:teetotallersBad for:gas guzzlersSmoothness is an attribute much prized in the automotive world. But my planned review of Saab's revolutionary BioPower estate didn't get off to the smoothest of rides. For a start, the gleaming 9-5 that rolled up to the delivery yard behind the Observer's office was not powered by bio-fuel as promised but by nothing more glamorous than diesel; and it was not an estate but a saloon. Small matters, you might think, but try explaining that to Harry, the morose lurcher, who was up for a walk in Epping Forest after he'd posed in the back of the estate - a jaunt that would now have to be scrapped as the nice people at Saab wouldn't appreciate a scum of dog hair, saliva and mud over their upholstery - no matter how natural and organic that dirt was.I was happy to miss the dog walk, but when it came to the BioPower, I felt as down in the chops as Harry. The 'flex fuel' car, touted as the holy grail of environmentally responsible motoring, would have been my chance to experience at first hand the joy of having my carrot cake and eating it.Bioethanol is produced from a wide variety of vegetable matter including forest residue, sugar cane and sugar beet, which makes it a renewable and sustainable fuel source. When mixed with a small amount of petrol it creates a potent, planet-friendly fuel, known as E85. And, compared to petrol, E85 will reduce the car's emission of greenhouse gas by as much as 70 per cent. The one, teeny drawback to bioethanol is you can't actually buy it in Britain yet, though the first 'eco' pump is due to open at a Tesco forecourt in Norfolk this week. The bio-fuel will cost about the same per litre as petrol and if you happen to run out you simply shove the crusts of your lunchtime panini into the tank until you can get back to Thetford! Seriously, Saab technology means its cars are capable of running on any blend of bioethanol and petrol, and even on pure petrol if need be, without any adjustment by the driver.Interestingly, bioethanol's higher octane rating will give you a 20 per cent gain in brake horse power (bhp) as compared to regular petrol. This means that the BioPower saloon will now go from 0-62mph a full second quicker (only 8.5 seconds). Though, of course, red-line motoring does get a big black mark when it comes to green driving. Eventually, BioPower technology will be available on all Saab's petrol engines for an extra &pound;600.But what's it actually like driving a car powered by sugar cane? Well, I'm afraid, as you know, I can't say, though Saab's press officer did say: 'You wouldn't be able to tell the difference.' In which case, let me tell you what the car's like running on diesel: luxuriously, and powerfully smooth. It doesn't thunder off, it seems to swoosh from the lights like a slalom skier, it also turns like a figure skater and stops like an ice-hockey player hitting the boards (guess what I've been watching?). The new 9-5's most noticeable features are its chrome-framed tinted headlights. Looking like a pair of sunglasses, the car seems to have the mischievous grin of Jack Nicholson - an actor who seems to run on a bio-fuel all of his own.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Forbes magazine has produced itsannual list of the world's billionaires, and I'm amused to note I've been in the same room as, met or even dined with almost a third of the top 25. Billionaires just aren't what they used to be, and some of them are geeks. Forbes says: "In our inaugural ranking of the world's richest people 20 years ago, we uncovered some 140 billionaires. Just three years ago we found 476. This year the list is a record 793. They're worth a combined $2.6 trillion, up 18% since last March. Their average net worth: $3.3 billion."There are just too many billionaires to wade through, but I checked the top 25 list and looked up a few familiar names. Some of the people you might have met (with rank and value) include:1 William Gates III $50.0bn 6 Paul Allen $22.0bn 12 Michael Dell $17.1bn 14 Sheldon Adelson $16.1bn 15 Lawrence Ellison $16.0bn 24 Steven Ballmer $13.6bn 25 Azim Premji $13.3bn 26 Sergey Brin $12.9bn 27 Larry Page $12.8bn 129 Eric Schmidt $4.8bn 140 Steven Jobs $4.4bn 240 David Filo $2.9bn 317 Jerry Yang $2.4bn 486 Thomas Siebel $1.6bn 645 Theodore Waitt $1.2bn 746 Charles Simonyi $1.0bnGates, Allen, Ballmer and Charles Simonyi are all Microsoft billionaires. Page, Brin and Schmidt are Google billionaires. Filo and Yang are Yahoo billionaires. Azim Premji is the man behind Wipro. Dell and Jobs are familiar names, and Ted Waitt founded Gateway. Thomas Siebel made his money from Siebel software. Sheldon Adelson may be an unfamiliar name but he's the guy who started the Comdex computer trade show in Las Vegas.Most notable absentee: Andy Grove, who (despite the error repeated by the Guardian's corrections column) wasnota co-founder of Intel.Post a comment if you find any more computer billionaires in the list.
"You have seen photos of the upcoming TabletKiosk V-700 UMPC but probably didn't know what device you were looking at and thanks to TabletKiosk CEO Martin Smekal I can share some new photos and details about the device that is soon to be released. The V-700 will be available in either black or white in keeping with TabletKiosk's Tablet PC color schemes. Expect the V-700 to appear on theTabletKioskweb site later this month. Click to enlarge all photos," saysjk OnTheRun.Comment: This is the UMPC pictured here on Monday, inOrigami pics leaked!So no, it wasn't PhotoShopped. The dimenisons are 228 x 146 x 25mm (8.97 x 5.74 x 0.98in), and 0.9kg (1.98 lb).
"Sony Pictures Home Entertainment (SPHE) now says it will release its first Blu-ray high-definition discs on May 23 -- the same day the first Blu-ray player goes on sale," reportsSound &amp; Vision Online.In an important aside, Don Eklund, SPHE's senior vice president for advanced technologies, said that Sony's initial Blu-ray discs -- and all of its Blu-ray titles for the forseeable future -- will be free of the "Image Constraint Token" that's built into the Blu-ray and HD DVD standards. This controversial digital flag instructs the player to down-res the video signal from its analog component-video outputs to a standard-definition image to prevent high-resolution recordings -- but at the same time prevents viewing of HDTV images on any TV or device not equipped with a copyright-protected HDMI digital input. That would eliminate any gain in image quality for HDTV early-adopters who bought displays prior to two or three years ago, when DVI and HDMI digital inputs were introduced.Comment: So if you've spent $2,500 on an HDTV and spend another $1,000 on a Blu-ray player, they will be really kind and actually let you see the high definition image you have paid for. How kind.
Usually I would have spent last week atETech, O'Reilly's Emerging Technology Conference in San Diego. I didn't go, mainly because its theme was attention. Interesting, but I couldn't see there being enough to write about, at least for a less specialised audience like The Guardian's. (I wrote a column about attention last month,A sharp increase in the value of paying attention, and have blogged about it a couple of times, with little or no response.)Microsoft's Ray Ozzie briefly lit up the blogosphere with hisWeb clipboard, but apart from that, it's still hard to see that I missed much.At ZD Net, Phil Windley has anETech 2006 wrap-upwhere he says: "The conference didn't have it's usual hacker flavor this year, at least for me, and I missed that. ... Part of that might have to do with the theme. Attention's an interesting topic, but I don't know there's a lot of the traditional hacker types that are paying attention, so to speak." Yeah. it's not just me....The Yahoo Search blog also has a brief report,Achtung Maybe: Report from the ETech Attention Zone, which I mention because I nicked the headline. Other press coverage ishere.
Blogs, blogs, blogs, everyone's got one. Even Chewbacca from Star Wars (tinyurl.com/aypov), although most of his posts consist of long growls. Nice pictures though. Meanwhile, the fact that he's a small soft toy doesn't seem to have stopped a friendly chap called Monkey (monkeysdeepthoughts.blogspot.com) from sharing his inner psyche.Elsewhere,thisismycomputerblog.blogspot.comappears to be penned by a 38-year-old egg with a fear of spider plants, and Jesus Christ (whatwouldjb.blogspot.com) looks to have returned in order to give us his thoughts on the new Grandaddy album (3.5 gold crowns out of 4), among other things. Thankfully MC Hammer's blog (mchammer.blogspot.com), in which he shares some quality "Hammertime" with his young son, is positively, er, "legit".
Since games started being set in explorable 3D worlds, players have reused these environments to stage their own dramas, often completely removed from the original themes. The most famous example is Red vs Blue: set in Xbox game Halo, the characters, stuck in a war without reason or sign of end, personify cynicism in their increasingly surreal exchanges. And now there's This Spartan Life, a chat show also made in Halo, and so infinitely self-referential that it will destroy your mind to try and unravel its irony. Lofty production values mean interviews take place within staged gunfights and routinely use vehicles as stage props. Episodes make for pleasantly bewildering viewing.www.thisspartanlife.com
TOCA Race Driver 3PC, PS2, XBOXAlthough another racing game might seem as desirable as unnecessary surgery, the TOCA series differentiates itself in a number of ways, the biggest of which is an expertly crafted balance between racing thrills and authentic punishment for cutting corners or ploughing into the back of other cars. It's also absurdly eclectic, taking in some 35 racing disciplines from monster trucks to go-karts and featuring a similarly extravagant 80+ tracks, including a lightly sandbagged recreation of the M25 sans 20-mile tailbacks. Less intrusive cut scenes with your familiar Scottish mentor and occasional rants from putative rivals punctuate wonderfully engaging racing, and while actually getting online with PS2 is as challenging as ever, TOCA 3 plays very nicely on Xbox Live.&#183;Codemasters, &pound;30-&pound;40TraptPS2Trapt's Princess Allura is a girl in trouble. Cursed by some ancient evil, she's forced to wander a castle setting up gruesome traps for assailants. This means looking at a set of rooms and corridors, selecting appropriate mechanical ambushes and then luring your prey towards them, setting off macabre chain reactions for extra credit. Translation to rival "all your base are belong to us" is matched by weak in-game animation, a generic Japanese graphic style and a sluggish in-game camera. Take Two, publisher of the peerless Grand Theft Auto series and a lot of cheerless tat that sells on negative publicity, clearly bought this on the strength of the volume of blood it lets.&#183;Take Two, &pound;30
MondayMMOPongIt all comes to a (Lion)headStrategy guides for dummiesTuesdayPS3 delay: now it's official. Sort ofPictochat predator harasses schoolgirlFootball ManagerWednesdayMore stereotypes in cyberspace: the case of South Koreans vs. ChineseAdvice for Trauma&lt;/&gt;Graffiti game finally invokes tabloid 'wrath'BFTA elevates games to same status as film and TVGolden Joystick awards to be screened on TVTalk 'bout a Revolution (hopefully)ThursdayPlaying with race in online gamesTechnologyIn praise of... computer gamesFridayPraise the Lord and pass the ammoAnimal Crossing: the truth
Your Animal Crossing questions have been answered. Mr Eguchi, developer of Animal Crossing: Wild World, has answered yourquestions from this blog. Read on and find out he felt when playing the game online for the first time...How important is online? Did it change the way you designed the game?The Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection is one of the most important elements of Animal Crossing:Wild World. On the other hand, what we really wanted to realize is to create very enjoyable wireless communications between DS owners when they are playing face-to-face and, then, reproduce the same enjoyable experiences for people playing each other at remote locations. In other words, by using the Wi-Fi capability, we wanted to eliminate the physical distance between the players. However, in order for Animal Crossing:Wild World to make people enjoy the Wi-Fi play as if they are enjoying playing with the game with their friends sitting in front of them, we had to clear a number of hurdles. Specifically, we had to minimize the set-up and other procedures to start playing the Wi-Fi mode to the extent that the procedures are almost identical to what are required to do the face-to-face wireless plays. I think Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection and Animal Crossing:Wild World have cleared these hurdles smartly.AC is a unique game - do you feel that this uniqueness limits the appeal of the game (ie people may not look beyond the "childish" graphics etc)Animal Crossing:Wild World is certainly a very unique software. It may not be in the category of what you would call a traditional "game". It may simply be a place where the player can feel free to just 'be', or it may be a tool with which players can communicate with each other by using various features. I think you can find interesting elements outside of the traditional "game" category. I think it is the uniqueness of the game that more people who don't always play games can enjoy - it is not limited to just game fans. I don't think it is so important what the graphics look like. What is important is if players can bond with their characters who act in the village and dress them up as themselves and grow with them, if they can feel comfortable being in the village, and if they can like villagers as if they were their neighbours. There are lots of elements other than graphics in Animal Crossing:Wild World such as mood music, BGM, villager's spoken words. I believe these various elements correlatively make the world of Animal Crossing real.Who is your target audience with this game?Every person who has a family, friends, boy friend or girl friend, who wants to play merrily with them. And, people who love to play freely, taking good care of their own personalities.Where did you get the inspiration for Nook?In Japan, there are lots of fairy tales that every Japanese knows, in which Japanese racoons mutate into something else using foliage, and fool people by changing foliage into something else. Then, we have come up with the idea making a racoon to appear as a character who buys and sells goods at the shop, because goods can change their forms into foliages. Also, there is a fox character called Redd. It is also from the Japanese fairytale stories, in which racoons and foxes are good at fooling people.How did you feel about the Red Tulip incident?We apologise to the people who experienced difficulties with the "Red Tulip" letter earlier this year. Thankfully, we were quickly able to isolate the problem and can ensure that a posting error won't happen again.How much of the game can be updated by going online?I think there is an upgrading in terms of a lot of aspects. Because it comes to support Local Wireless and Wi-Fi Play, players can play by sharing the same time and places, while they used to only be able to enjoy communication with others by leaving a trail in a different time period. This change brings about amazing pleasure. I cannot forget our sensational feeling that we felt during the development process when we firstly visit another village and invite a guest in the Animal Crossing:Wild World, even though we are the staff who developed this software. There are various other features to enjoy this major upgrading.Are there any plans to introduce downloadable content (such as furniture, patterns, etc.)?In Japan and the US, we are providing this kind of service. Players can receive mails from Nintendo when connecting to the Wi-Fi Connection, which sometimes contains present such as special furniture. We are planning to offer a similar service in Europe, please look forward to this once it is available.Would it be possible for there to be an update whereby you could tell Copper only to let one or two people in when you open your gates, to stop crashes?We do not have any plan to make this change all I can suggest is that supposed that one of four users may not be in the good network environment. It is appreciated if you could see if there is anything that causes noise near to the equipment, and make sure that it is as far away from this as possible.Why plans for a more MMO-style Revolution version...?I cannot say how it is going to be now, but we are considering the possibilities about the software for Revolution.Is there a difference in fishing &amp; catching bugs. It seems to be a lot more difficult? Is this to try and slow the game down and stop people paying off the mortgages as quickly?In Animal Crossing:Wild World, there are more kinds of bugs and fish, species which appear in this title are very different, compared with software for Nintendo GameCube. Please look forward to it since I think you can have more fun in collecting various kinds. Regarding difficulty level, Animal Crossing:Wild World has a different manipulation system from the GC title, so you may feel differently. But we didn't make it difficult at all. We think that players can decide how they are going to pay off their mortgage in terms of speed, and we don't think developers need to control it. As a matter of fact, we wouldn't have incorporated Turnip system, if we had tried to prevent players to pay off the mortgages. By using Turnip, there are possibilities players can earn enormous amount, if it is worked out.Is there anything you would have loved to include but just couldn't squeeze into the game?Off course, there are many! But, I think I would rather refrain from mentioning what kinds of elements we have given up putting into it. These can be realised in the future series, so please look forward to it.What was the inspiration behind the animal pictures?Animal characters can be your neighbours in the village you are living, your friends, rivals, someone to speak to, someone you like, someone you are not fond of a little in some way, and etc. Therefore it is very true to the real world in this sense. They are characters with various personalities. They chum together, and sometimes they may have disagreements with each other. We design these characters, thinking about things like this.Does Redd ever do you any favours for anyone or should you stay away from him ?In Redd's shop, there are sometimes goods that you can only buy from Redd. You can also find things, which you can get also at Nook's shop. Please think about what are rare goods and what are normal goods before you buy one. Goods are priced high, so please be careful not to buy normal goods for expensive prices. But, in regard to pictorial art, you cannot tell if it is genuine or forged painting before you buy one, this is just down to luck!Animal Crossing: Wild World DS is released in Europe on the 31st March.
PC World, owned by Dixons, runs a number of computer superstores in the UK. This is quoted from the PC World Digital Digest:* At PC World more than 50% of new PCs are now sold with a remote control and feature media software such as Windows Media Centre Edition as standard, reflecting the growing role that the home computer now plays in home entertainment.* Wireless networking product sales are up more than 100% year on year, with industry experts predicting continued growth. Reasons that consumers are choosing to go wireless include: to stream content throughout the home, to share a broadband Internet connection and also share devices such as printers amongst multiple PCs around the home.* Digital Photography is the dominant format for images in the UK home. PC World sold one portable photo printer every minute throughout December 2005, more than three times the amount sold during the same period last year. There has also been an upsurge in the sale of storage devices, such as external hard drives, reflecting the upsurge in data-intensive content in people's homes.* The digital music sector continued to grow rapidly in 2005, and in the week before Christmas PC World customers spent over £34 per minute on iPod accessories. PC World, Dixons and Currys also sold more than 20 MP3 players per minute in the ten weeks leading up to Christmas. Digital music downloads are also driving broadband adoption in the UK, as customers integrate their music collections with their MP3 players and their PCs.
The New York Timessays: "Amazon.com is in talks with three Hollywood studios about starting a service that would allow consumers to download movies and TV shows for a fee and burn them onto DVD's, according to three people briefed on the discussions."So far, Paramount Pictures, Universal Studios and Warner Brothers are engaged in the talks, said one person close to the talks who, like the others, asked not to be identified because the negotiations are continuing.The article suggests that Amazon could finally capitalise on the wonderfulIMDB, which it bought way back in 1998.
Google has bought Writely, an online word processor, for an undisclosed sum, as meniotned on theGoogle blog. It's not exactly clear why, because Google already has a simple but functional rich text editor in Gmail, and because Wrtitely was (like Orkut) built using Microsoft.net programming tools. However, it may have more to do with Writely's interesting and useful ability to share documents and collaborate on them via a browser -- which is, frankly, the only rational reason for using Writely if you've already got access to a PC and WordPad.TheWritely Web sitenow says: "We have closed off new registrations until we move Writely to Google's systems," while the Google blog post says: "we're not accepting new registrations until we've moved Writely to Google's software architecture." Again, it's not clear what this means. However, Writely currently runs on Windows Server 2003, whereas Gmail runs on Linux.
It's Friday! Get chatting.
Christians are not abovea littleviolence. They've had millennia to perfect their techniques, to terrify the masses into compliance and supplication. So considering the amount of gore and blood-thirst in the average computer game,whyhasn't theChristian game developer bodyeverhad a smash hit interactive product? God only knows.Well, according to Newsweek, their time is now.Left Behind: Eternal Forceshas had a whole lotta cash behind it (as the article says), giving it a more commercial feel:the top-shelf design, which offers an eerily authentic reproduction of the game's Manhattan setting, and a level of violence reminiscent of Grand Theft Auto.The irony of the last statement must not be overlooked.However will the US anti-games deal with this? Well, according to the CEO of developerLeft Behind Games:"We've thought through how the Christian right and the liberal left will slam us," says Lyndon. "But megachurches are very likely to embrace this game."Dear sweet Jesus. If what they say about the link between computer games and violence is true, we're in for one hell of a holy war.
edoc laundry's wearable Alternate Reality Game has been getting some press lately (viaJoystiq) for its novel approach to passing out puzzles and clues. Rather than get cryptic notes sent through thepost,attend meetings or buy game cards, edoc laundry requires you to buy their clothing, wear it and keep and eye out for others of its make to solve puzzles. It's so strange it might just work.From their website:Our gear tells secrets. Woven into everything we make are hidden messages and codes most people can't see. Edoc clothes break across the traditional categories of street, skate/surf, and classic by creating a new category that spans our entire line: Covert. Every piece of gear is a trapdoor into a hidden world.Check it out. We've gor nothing to hide.European ARG fashionistas will be hard-pressed to participate; the threads are only available in the USA.
It's almost Friday, get chatting.
From today's leader section in the paper. Let's hope that enough publishers and, to a lesser extent, developers are reading. Gaming needs to take the next step, essentially focussing on emotional impact and new ways to play, if it is going to reach the potential we all know it can.
Sony boss Sir Howard Stringer has beeninterviewed by Variety magazine, and after it has got all the important stuff out of the way, it turns to the PlayStation 3:Sony's new PlayStation 3 was widely expected to be introduced this spring, but will be delayed as the company fine-tunes the chips that are crucial to the success of the console's Blu-ray function.The PlayStation 3 --- which is being called "the poor man's Blue-ray" --- is vital to Sony's plans because it plays Blu-ray discs as well as videogames.Sony will roll out the PS3 by year end, in time for the holidays. If PS3 "delivers what everyone thinks it will, the game is up," Stringer boasts.The question is, if Stringer actually said that, did he mean Christmas in North America, which is where Variety's readers live, or Christmas in Japan? If he means Christmas in North America, then he's not officially announcing another delay to the PlayStation 3.However, yesterdayThe Inquirer reportedthat "Taiwanese manufacturer COMPEQ has announced that it has been given orders from Sony to produce circuit boards for the PS3."The company did not say when it was planning to start manufacturing the boards, but a Chinese website, Mydrivers, says it has a deep throat in the company who said that things have to be underway by June or July.This will put the PS3 on track for delivery at the end of the year, just in time for Crimbo.Maybe, but Sony could plan on making its own PCBs before that. Either way,as Bloomberg reported yesterday, the mighty Bandai no longer believes what Sony is saying:Namco Bandai Holdings Inc. President Takeo Takasu said it was "impossible'' for Sony Corp. to start sales of the PlayStation 3 game console in spring as scheduled, which may delay a recovery in the software industry."Without any announcements so far, the spring release is impossible," Takasu said yesterday in an interview in Tokyo. "We are developing titles for PlayStation 3, but the release of the games depends on the timing of the hardware."So the PS3 schedule that I've been suggesting for the past six months or so -- Japan in spring, US in late November, UK in 2007 -- may turn out to be too optimistic. If you want to buy a PS3 here, figure on waiting at least a year. If it turns out to be longer, don't be too surprised.See also:Sony's PS3 release date in questionUpdate:GamesIndustry.bizsays: "Information from a number of independent sources is suggesting that Sony may announce further details of its plans for PlayStation 3 next week in Tokyo, with the revised launch schedule for the console being at the top of the agenda." The date is March 15.
Reuters hasa report on the Origami UMPC from CeBIT in Hanover, Germany, which includes a small amount of new information and quotes from some of the participants.The story mentions three manufacturers -- Korea's Samsung Electronics, Taiwan's Asustek and "China's second largest PC-maker, the Founder Group" -- which looks a bit too neat to be an accident. Microsoft has probably signed up only one manufacturer from each country, to limit competition. And as Reuters points out: "No US name brand PC makers have signed on to make the new devices".It's clear that, as with the Media Center PC, this is just the first step in a platform-building strategy that will probably take five years to get anywhere useful."We believe that (ultra-mobile PCs) will eventually become as indispensable and ubiquitous as the mobile phone today," Microsoft vice president Bill Mitchell said at CeBIT. "The Origami project is really our first step toward achieving a big vision."Later, the story adds:"People expect an increasing amount of functionality when they are on the go," said Otto Berkes, general manager at Microsoft's Mobile Platforms Division."This is the start of a category and there are a number of areas that will require additional investment -- both hardware and software -- to realize the full potential of the category," said Berkes.Comment: The PC industry would obviously be very happy if every Windows user could be persuaded to buy three machines -- desktop, notebook, ultramobile -- instead of one or two. And at bottom, that's really what this whole thing is about. Whether consumers will go for it is another matter. History says not.
I operatewww.sprayonmud.com, which was featured in the Guardian last year and around the world. Google gave us top ranking for sprayonmud until December, then suddenly wiped us from their radar, and our sales have fallen dramatically as a result. How does one redress this? Colin Dowse, Sprayonmud LimitedYour site has incoming links from high-ranking sites such as the BBC, the Guardian, Wired etc, so it should show up well. However, searching Google for your address brings the response: "Sorry, no information is available for the URL www.sprayonmud.com". Since Google does not offer to show you its cache of the site, your pages must have been removed and this could only have been done deliberately. Usually this happens only if a site uses underhand "search engine optimisation" (SEO) techniques such as keyword-stuffed doorway pages, deceptive redirects and spam blogs. For details, see the Google advice page:www.google.com/webmasters/seo.html.First, you need to find out what you have done wrong, if anything, and correct it. Second, you must email help@google.com with the subject line "reinclusion request" with a brief description of the problem. You will get an automated response but it is possible that your site will be restored eventually.Google recently removed BMW Germany from its index for using redirection code so that search engines saw a different, text-heavy page at bmw.de from the one seen by users,as explained by Google's Matt Cutts. But BMW was soon restored. It is harder for the many small firms who must now depend on Google's search results for their survival, especially since Google is the police force, sole witness, judge, jury, court of appeal and executioner.I therefore asked Google UK one simple question on your behalf: "How can he find out what, if anything, he has done wrong?" I will let you know if I get an answer.Update: I asked this question at 2:07pm on Monday March 6, 2006. Although I have exchanged numerous emails with Google, it hasn't actually answered the question. I understand Google UK is awaiting a response from the US.Update, Thursday March 16, 2006: Still no answer, but Google has referred me to a blog entry by the employee I mentioned last week, Matt Cutts, calledFiling a reinclusion request. This says the procedure has changed "from an email address to a web form. The best location to go [to] ishttp://www.google.com/support/bin/request.py. You can select 'I'm a webmaster inquiring about my website' and then select 'Why my site disappeared from the search results or dropped in ranking'. Click Continue, and on the page that shows up, make sure to type 'Reinclusion Request' in the Subject line of the resulting form."As for the basic question - How can you find out what, if anything, you've done wrong? - it seems you can't.
I am about to replace an old desktop PC. Is there a good reason to buy another desktop rather than a notebook? Michael PattenBuying a desktop PC will usually get you a faster computer with a bigger hard drive and better graphics, keyboard, screen and speakers, and far better cursor control (via a mouse) for less money than a notebook PC. It will also be more expandable, which could be useful if you need to add more disk drives or upgrade the graphics card.However, the price and performance gaps have narrowed a lot in the past couple of years, thanks to the arrival of cheap (but not very portable) "desktop replacement" notebooks, and the switch to using more expensive flat screens with desktop PCs instead of bulky monitors.But I would still recommend a desktop PC for serious use because notebooks have poor ergonomics. After I switched to using notebooks instead of desktops last year, I became unable to raise my right arm and needed physiotherapy at a significant cost. You can develop arm and back problems using a desktop PC, too, of course, but notebooks encourage bad posture and your health may suffer.Update: Ralph Averbuch has made a very good point by email: Michael can buy a notebook PC and use it with his existing desktop keyboard, screen and mouse, as well as on the move. This provides the best of both worlds. I wonder how many people actually do this...
I am about to retire and would like to learn a programming language both for fun and practical purposes. The question is, which one? John WhiteheadOne powerful and comprehensive programming system is now available as a free download: Microsoft Visual Basic 2005 Express Edition. The site athttp://msdn.microsoft.com/vstudio/express/vb/will walk you through its capabilities and it is also supported by aCoding4Funsite. However, the minimum installation is 500MB, and a full installation takes up 1.3GB, including programming libraries and Microsoft's SQL Server 2005 database.At the other extreme, there'sSqueak: "a modern, open-source, highly portable, fast and full-featured implementation" of the object-oriented Smalltalk language. It is available for Windows, Mac OS and Unix/Linux, OS/2 Warp and RiscOS. The Windows download is just under 15MB.There's a good list of free languages atwww.danish-shareware.dk/progsoft/progsoft.html, including Euphoria.Comment on comments: (1) Note that Mr Whitehead said he was "about to retire". If he'd said he was "about to start college" or something, then I would have recommended different languages. (2) I was thinking of making it a condition for comments that you should provide examples of things you've written in VBE and Squeak ... but then, I've never tried Python ;-)
And the winner is ... Oblivion IV, in which players must find the lost heir to the throne of Tamriel in order to turn the tides of darkness and banish the demons laying waste to everything in their path.This awards scenario could be about to come true. The British Academy of Film and Television Arts yesterday announced that video games are as important to popular culture as film and television. As a result, what it regards as "one of the principal contemporary art forms" will be rewarded with a beefed-up British Academy video games awards in October.Although Bafta has been involved with video games since 1997, industry leaders said the announcement was a sign that interactivity had come of age.The Bafta chairman, Duncan Kenworthy, said video games were becoming the academy's third arm. "Bafta is about helping and recognising the art forms of the moving image. And video games are a growing art form, a key art form."Mr Kenworthy, one of the men behind the UK film producer Working Title, said the industry was going through a revolution in terms of how images are distributed and consumed. Yesterday's announcement was about Bafta keeping pace with change. "Film distribution is changing enormously. Very soon you will be able to get images to everyone in the world simultaneously. It's not the end of the film industry and its not the end of cinema. It's just different."Ian Livingstone, product acquisition director at games company Eidos, and one of those responsible for Lara Croft, said the move was long overdue. "Games are part of our culture and they're here to stay whether we like it or not." The industry was evolving fast. While 15 years ago two men in a garage might be working on a game, now it might take two years, &pound;5m and an army of scriptwriters, cinematographers, animators and even artificial intelligence programmers to develop one game. "For me they've become a new art form. We're making games that can make people laugh, make them cry, take them on the full emotional rollercoaster."The industry is worth an estimated &pound;2bn a year in Britain alone. Research for the BBC showed that there are 26.5 million gamers in the UK.Aleks Krotoski, a Guardian games columnist and commentator, welcomed the announcement. "It's been a struggle to get here. And there's still quite a distance to go ... to get to a position where games are taken seriously as an art medium." She hoped it would be a spur to the government to back the industry.The awards ceremony, which will come at the end of London Games Week, has been driven by a committee of games world figures. Its chairman, Paul Jackson, of Electronic Arts, said: "Bafta's move to give video games equal status with film and television reflects games' contribution to artistic innovation and storytelling."Ray Maguire, senior vice-president of Sony Computer Entertainment, said: "For the creativity and artistry that is so prevalent in our business to be recognised in parity with other more accepted visual arts says to me that interactivity has finally come of age."Game OnPeter Bradshaw, the Guardian's film critic, reviews four of the big games currently on the market.The Godfather2 starsThis is the big one: a game version of the original Godfather! Sadly, it is not out yet, and we judged the game purely on highlight downloads from the web. Will we have to use our PS2 console to lower the horse's head into the bed? Who knows. Premature verdicts are unfair, but I am tempted to repeat what Michael says to Fredo: "You broke my heart." The streetscapes look fine but characters' movements are puppety. Sonny Corleone looks like he is auditioning for a part in Thunderbirds.We &hearts; Katamari4 starsNow this really is wacky. It's got that very zany Japanese Hello Kitty feel to it and after playing it for a few minutes I became slightly delirious. I haven't the slightest clue what it is about, but it is very funny. The idea - I think - is that you roll something called a Katamari around a weird hyperreal grassy landscape and it gets bigger and bigger. There's a fox, a bunny rabbit, and ... I felt too dizzy to continue. Let's see the Japanese animation master Miyazaki make a film based on this!Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire2 starsThe game is close to the film in graphics and we get the benefit of Stephen Fry's chocolatey-voiced introduction. Seeing the film reduced to its constituent elements for the various point-scoring rounds - locale, characters, situations - is very educational for the critic. It deconstructs the movie in advance. At any rate, I elected to play as Harry himself, but somewhat cluelessly was unable to get him to do anything other than run wildly in various directions while things glowed on the horizon, like an overexcited kid at a bonfire party.Black2 starsThis shoot-em-up has a fantastically pompous "credit sequence" which you don't seem to fast-forward past, giving the fight director, actors etc. Then there's the intro, similarly unavoidable, showing a renegade soldier being briefed on how to take out an anti-US terrorist squad. Then the shooting kicks off in a post-Soviet post-apocalyptic hellhole: very enjoyable and loud - though I did nothing but run in circles firing at the walls. The director has a gung-ho vision of America's place in the world. Perhaps there's a certain level I didn't get up to where you have get your M-16 out and kill Michael Moore, Sean Penn and other mincing liberals.
Photo: Otto from Scoble's video via Origami PortalMicrosoft has now published information on the new UMPC or Ultra-Mobile PC on its website athttp://www.microsoft.com/umpc. Only two devices are mentioned, from Samsung and Asus, though others may be announced later. The software is currently the familiar Microsoft Windows XP Tablet PC Edition 2005, and the hardware spec includes:Approximately 7" diagonal display (or smaller) Minimum 800 x 480 resolution Approximately 2 pounds Integrated touch panel Wi-Fi and Bluetooth-enabledOn Microsoft's Channel 9, which is aimed at software developers, Robert Scoble has donea video interview with Otto Berkes, the man behind the Origami project. The (independent) Origami Portal hasa run-through with picturesto save the effort of watching it.The Origami Team is blogging athttp://origamiproject.com/, and this includesHistory of Origami by Otto - Part 1.Jupiter Research analyst Michael Gartenberg has postedOrigami Revealed - First Take Analysis, which makes the essential point: "Look at Origami the way you might look at a new platform, not the value of a particular machine today."Update: Engadget has a briefhands-on look at the Samsung prototypeat CeBIT, with pictures.
Imagine you had bought this newspaper for a friend. Imagine you asked them to tell you what's in the TV listings - and they demanded cash before they would tell you. Outrageous? Certainly. Yet that is what a number of government agencies are doing with the data that we, as taxpayers, pay to have collected on our behalf. You have to pay to get a useful version of that data. Think of Ordnance Survey's (OS) mapping data: useful to any business that wanted to provide a service in the UK, yet out of reach of startup companies without deep pockets.This situation prevails across a number of government agencies. Its effects are all bad. It stifles innovation, enterprise and the creativity that should be the lifeblood of new business. And that is why Guardian Technology today launches a campaign - Free Our Data. The aim is simple: to persuade the government to abandon copyright on essential national data, making it freely available to anyone, while keeping the crucial task of collecting that data in the hands of taxpayer-funded agencies.One government makes the data it collects available free to all: the United States. It is no accident that it is also the country that has seen the rise of multiple mapping services (such as Google Maps, Microsoft's MapPoint and Yahoo Maps) and other services - "mashups" - that mesh government-generated data with information created by the companies. The US takes the attitude that data collected using taxpayers' money should be provided to taxpayers free. And a detailed study shows that the UK's closed attitude to its data means we lose out on commercial opportunities, and even hold back scientific research in fields such as climate change.Who are the culprits? Besides OS, with its vast and valuable map data, there are the UK Hydrographic Office (which collects tidal and naval navigational data), the Highways Agency (which collects traffic data) and even the European Centre for Medium Range Weather Forecasting.Britain's public sector information is held by some 400 government departments, agencies and local authorities. Assets range from wills dating back to 1858, house values recorded in the Land Registry, maps and the risk of flooding to individual homes. Much is of great commercial interest, especially when it can be presented on innovative websites such asupmystreet.com. These sets of data are the modern crown jewels - but instead of treating them as a resource to boost national wealth, the government locks them up, restricting access to those who pay.The heart of our argument is twofold. First, the government should not run businesses. The civil service is too inflexible to cope with the speed of change in the commercial sector. If a company like Microsoft finds it difficult to adjust to a world of online applications, how much harder is it for a government department rooted in paper-based processes?Second, the government should be charged with collecting the best data. The Office for National Statistics labours to collect the most accurate depiction of Britain's society and economy. No private organisation has the resources, time or breadth of approach. By contrast, commercial companies ignore less profitable sectors: we can't trust data collected by banks about spending habits because they ignore people who cannot afford to open accounts. Similarly, few companies make detailed maps of Britain; they concentrate on the areas with the best returns.In a seminal piece of research into the real cost of charging for access to public data, the late Peter Weiss, of the US National Weather Service, compared open and closed economic models for public sector data. His paper, Borders in Cyberspace: Conflicting Public Sector Information Policies and their Economic Impact, is online (http://tinyurl.com/cby55). He quoted a 2000 study for the European Commission carried out by Pira International, which noted that "the concept of commercial companies being able to acquire, at very low cost, quantities of public sector information and resell it for a variety of unregulated purposes to make a profit is one that policymakers in the EU find uncomfortable." But why?Pira pointed out that the US's approach brings enormous economic benefits. The US and EU are comparable in size and population; but while the EU spent &euro;9.5bn (&pound;6.51bn) on gathering public sector data, and collected &euro;68bn selling and licensing it, the US spent &euro;19bn - twice as much - and realised &euro;750bn - over 10 times more. Weiss pointed out: "Governments realise two kinds of financial gain when they drop charges: higher indirect tax revenue from higher sales of the products that incorporate the ... information; and higher income tax revenue and lower social welfare payments from net gains in employment."Infinite applicationsThe applications for public sector data are infinite, but here are two real-world ones that affect ordinary businesses. Many of Britain's best rock-climbing venues are on sea cliffs, and hence affected by the tides. For climbers planning a trip - and surely spending money in local shops - it helps to know if the tides will be favourable. But websites that try to offer British tide data have been told by the UK Hydrographic Office they must pay for it - a cost most are unwilling to endure. So sites have no tides, climbers make the safer choice, and shops miss out.Take traffic data. The Highways Agency has set up an exclusive deal with TrafficTV to send video details from motorway cameras to your mobile. But if the data were free, any company could offer well-organised maps and drive down the price while increasing the numbers who would have better access to traffic data. That would reduce congestion and pollution.How did we get into this mess? The problem stems from the days of the Conservative government, which created "trading funds". These government-owned bodies - including OS, Companies House, the Driving Standards Agency, HM Land Registry, the Patent Office and the Royal Mint - have to sell to other parts of the government and private customers. Every year they have a "revenue target" that must be paid to the Treasury; but the only way to earn those revenues is through commercial activity - creating the ludicrous spectacle of government-approved monopolies making the market buy data at their rates. A growing number of experts say the loss to the economy outweighs "gains" through lowered taxes. "The amount of money made is trivial," says Keith Dugmore of the Demographics User Group, which represents commercial users of government information.But the stifling of competition is most serious. Sometimes, the conflicts are surreal. The supply of postal addresses is an example. Three publicly owned agencies - the Post Office, OS and a consortium of local authorities - run lists of addresses. Because they are forced to put a "value" on the lists, they have been unable to agree a way of creating a single database. The cost of licensing addresses was one reason why returns from the 2001 census were so poor from several fast-changing metropolitan areas, such as Manchester.A local authority such as Swindon has to pay OS &pound;38,000 a year to use its addresses and geographical data. It also has to pay the Royal Mail &pound;3,000 for every website that includes the facility for people to look up their postcodes. Yet it was local authorities, which have a statutory duty to collect street addresses, that collected much of this data.Intense conflictKristin Woodland, who chairs the local authorities' street gazetteer group, says: "The taxpayer pays for us to create the data, then has to pay us to use the data."The conflict between a trading fund's traditional role and its new commercial activities is most intense in mapping. "Technology has left the licensing model far behind," says Dugmore.Particular controversy surrounds the role of OS, founded to prepare the British army for a French invasion and now a household name that sees itself at the forefront of geographical information systems.OS has a monopoly on centuries' worth of data thanks to taxpayer funding. Without that head start, it would be in the same position as any other startup today: facing the choice of creating a brand-new dataset, or finding someone who had collected it and licensing it from them.Part of the problem is that government - and the Treasury - is blinded by its internal commercial targets, and unable to see the damage its policies do. Thus within government, OS is widely seen as an example of a venerable public body transforming itself into a dynamic commercial enterprise. Last year it had a surplus of &pound;9.2m, though only part was returned to the Treasury. But the bulk of its revenues come from the public sector, partly through a payment called the National Interest Mapping Services (Nims), worth &pound;13m a year, and partly from deals with government bodies.The latest of the deals is under negotiation. Yesterday, the government was due to receive bids for a &pound;20m contract to provide geographical information to Whitehall bodies. In theory, it is an open competition. In practice, the largest part of the contract, for "large scale data", is unlikely to go to anyone else: the contract specifies that the winner must have large-scale maps in place within six weeks of the start of a five-year deal.The OS told the Guardian: "We are bidding for pan-government agreement and we operate in fair competition under heavy scrutiny. The only monopoly we have is in the mapping of uneconomic areas." In 2004-05, 47.5% of its &pound;100.4m trading revenue came from government (which allows it to claim that it is not government funded). It says Nims is not a subsidy: "This is a contribution to the cost of mapping uneconomic areas."Profit centresThat makes sense - if you consider the geography of the United Kingdom to be a profit centre. But if you view it instead as belonging to its taxpayers, and meriting rigorous mapping for their benefit, there are no "uneconomic areas" - only places that people haven't started to use yet.Happily, the practice of state-owned monopolies competing in markets dependent on their information is under attack from several quarters. A new trade association, Locus, is calling for the government to enforce a level playing field in the market in public sector information.And some of the most copyright-mad government organisations have relented. Hansard, the record of proceedings in parliament, was once a paper product that had to be bought from Her Majesty's Stationery Office. Now it is online, for free, so that sites liketheyworkforyou.comcan generate useful data about individual MPs' voting and attendance.The Office of Fair Trading is preparing a report on public sector information, due this summer, which will "look at whether or not the way in which public sector information holders (PSIH) supply information works well for businesses. It will examine whether PSIHs have an unfair advantage selling on information in competition with companies who are reliant on the PSIH for that raw data in the first place."Though it may already be shooting for an open goal, we urge the OFT to compare the UK with the US; read Peter Weiss's paper; and then, finally, to free our data.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Lots of games coverage in this week's Technology. Take thereviews, for example. Dungeons and Dragons Online, Toca 3 and Marc Ecko - geek, gears and graffiti in 450 words. Elsewhere Kate Bevanbemoansconfusing camera angles and in-game HUD's. And finally Aleksconjures upthe terrifying thought of geeks in Jimmy Choos walking the red carpet. Best erase that image from your memory.
New World Noteshas post up about people's reactions to depictions of race in cyberspace, following the experiences of a resident of virtual world Second Life who chose to present herself as black.In the online space, users have complete control over how they wish to look, but from my experience there are very few people (apart from theFurries) who vary from looking white, thin and glamorous. Erika Therian modelled a black avatar skin created by skin-smith Chip Midnight with some rather unexpected results. From the article:Many gasped in admiration, when Erika appeared in public in her Midnight skin. Some, however, did not."Well, I teleport into a region," she says, recounting a latter case. "Where a couple people [are] standing around."One said, 'Look at the n***** b****.'""Another said 'Great, they are gonna invade SL now.'"Now, of course these quotes are taken out of context and don't represent the attitudes of all of the people who participate in Second Life, but there are other episodes across the internet and gaming spectrum that suggest that presented race is an issue. Interested people should read always_black'sBow Niggerfor insight into racism in an online game, and those who wish to read more deeply into this matter should check out Jerry Kang'sCyber-racepaper. Also see other gamesblog-related articles on the subjectherandhere.
P2Pfilesharingis the bain of the music industry, and retrospectively, they are trying to tackle it throughacquisitionandlitigation. The games industry has been aware that people are also sharing interactive files for a while, yet there seems to be a kerfuffle over who's responsibility it is to address the issue.In an article inMCV, publishers ilke EA and Sony argue that this form of piracy falls under the remit of trade organisationELSPA, but ELSPA says that they only deal with for-profit piracy, and that P2P is a breach of privacy which should be addressed at the publisher level. My goodness, that's a rather large gap in responsibility.In the meantime, gamers in the know don't have to go to car boot sales to collect their pirated copies, but can pick them up for nothing from the comfort of their own homes.
Free our data: A Guardian Technology campaign begins today. Our taxes fund the collection of public data for maps, tides and weather - yet we are obliged to pay again to access it. Make the data freely available to stimulate innovation, argue Charles Arthur and Michael Cross.File sharing? It's great businessJust months ago, the writing seemed to be on the wall for popular peer-to-peer technologies. How quickly things change. Bernhard Warner reports.Ajax prepares for battle on the dark sideOne of the newest web technologies has a sneaky power: it can access pages from your browser without you knowing about it. Quinn Norton reports.BT brings faster broadband for free - but it may cost youISPs could decide to charge their customers extra for the faster services they will soon be able to provide. George Cole reports.Techno world has MPs beatMany MPs and peers still tend to log off from matters technological. Richard Sarson reports.Meet the ancestors - onlineStep changes in websites can happen almost unnoticed. Nowhere is this more true than in genealogy, says Victor Keegan.E-government's shy family member takes centre stageMichael Cross: Two years after posting a shop window on the web, HM Government has decided to start telling people about it.TechnobileLess is so much more when it comes to games tutorials, camera angles and head-up displays, says Kate Bevan.Don't let Hollywood be the arbiter of games moviesLast weekend, while the Fabulous got out their frocks and Jimmy Choos to prance up the red carpet, games movies were walking a different plank, says Aleks Krotoski.GamesToca Race Driver 3, Dungeons &amp; Dragons Online: Stormreach and Marc Ecko's Getting Up: Contents Under PressureRead this week's lettersSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query. Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.Newly asked questions:When can I buy an HD DVD player?At the end of next month, but there's a catch ...How does Google envisage the future?According to a presentation to analysts, as "a world with infinite storage, bandwidth and CPU power".Can you hack into a Mac in 30 minutes?It depends. If you open enough of it up, then certainly.
