"Asus expects its Eee PC running Microsoft Windows XP to outsell the Linux Xandros version of its hit mini-notebook. But does the system have the performance potential? Earlier this week the Windows XP version of the Eee PC 4G, which will be available to consumers in mid-April, arrived at our offices," saysLaptop.The machine looks exactly like the original 4G; it has the same pearl-white chassis and standard ports. The internal specs are the same as well: 512MB of RAM, a 4GB solid state drive, and an Intel Mobile CPU. The only difference is when we booted up the system (in a quick 40 seconds--see our full boot video below) we were welcomed by the Windows chime and the green grass and blue sky desktop of Windows XP.The obvious complaint is that 4GB isn't really enough space for Windows XP and Office. This can be alleviated by using a SD card, but it's not an ideal solution. Still, Laptop says:When we reviewed the first iteration of the Eee PC we had three main gripes: The webcam can't yet be used for video chats, it's not easy to load new applications, and there is no mobile broadband support. All three of those issues were solved in the Windows version of the system. We were even able to load Verizon Wireless' mobile broadband software and plug in a UM150 USB modem. For road warriors who were feeling limited by the Linux OS, unable to port over PowerPoint files and other tools, the Windows XP version of the Eee PC will hit the spot.In arelated story, Laptop says "The 7-inch screen system will be available at Best Buy for $399 starting April 9th."ViaGizmodo
Part of the problem with smartphones is the term "smartphone". There is no getting around the fact that the things sound demoralisingly nerdy. To the lay consumer, what "smart" means is "horribly complicated, unnecessarily over-specified, dominated by features no sane person will ever use, liable to do ruinously expensive things to your data tariff without your realising until too late, and weirdly bad at everyday stuff like, you know, making phone calls".The manufacturers have got wise to this. They try not to call them smartphones any more, for a start. They're also trying to market them in a way that makes smartphones seem less techie. The BlackBerry Pearl, for instance: why not just call it the BlackBerry Girl?It's a problem for the manufacturers because these little technical marvels are so full of features, they make your eyes bug out. This LG KF600 phone I have here, for instance, is small and light, and has a video camera, a 3 megapixel still camera, an MP3 player, an FM radio, a web browser and email. It has a voice memo capacity, works as a USB saving device and can recognise handwriting, as well as all the usual phone and texty stuff. It is a piece of science fiction, dropped right here into the present.The engineers who design these phones, and the manufacturers who make them, would love nothing more than to boast about all this. The difficulty for them is that going on too much about all the features has the effect of putting off ordinary punters. Nerds love features: look! You can photograph your bum, while texting your mates, while playing Pong, while listening to Nine Inch Nails, while sending an email claiming to be ill, while phoning your mum to check if she's done your laundry, all at the same time!And as for feature overload, if you're a nerd and your phone has a feature you don't understand, well, then you just RTFM. Read The Fucking Manual. It's every nerd's favourite thing to say to another nerd. But the public doesn't want to RTFM. We're F'd if we'll RTFM. Rather than RTFM, we'd rather our phone went off and F'd itself.So the task for the manufacturers is to make smartphones as simple-seeming and easy as possible, and let the features sort of sneak up on the user - and one way round this is to make the interface as intuitive as possible, so the underlying complexity is hidden. That way, non-nerds will buy them. Engineers need careful handling if they're to do this right: consider the VCR, for instance, which over time got more rather than less complicated, so that nobody over the age of about 30 could make one work.LG has had a good go at this and the KF600 menu structure is about as clear and helpful as anything apart from Apple's iPhone. It uses two screens, the lower one a sliding touch screen with four-way arrows, and the menus are context-sensitive and interactive in a helpful way: so when you're playing music, they're play and pause controls; when you're scrolling through contacts, they're to do with ways of contacting people, and so on. The phone puts few obstacles in the way of actually being used. I had to RTFM a couple of times, but nothing untoward. And call quality is OK - not fabulous, but OK.As to whether the phone will win converts, I'm not so sure. My first ever smartphone was an iPhone, and it's a marvel of usability - but it also makes me keenly aware of just how miraculous these phones are about to be, a year or two down the line, when they have 3G and GPS that really, truly works. That, for the lay user, will mean broadband everywhere, all the time, and that your phone knows exactly where you are. That will seriously rock.Until then, bearing in mind the fairly robust ethical reasons for not upgrading your phone any more often than you have to, well, if you want a smartphone, you can do a lot worse than the KF600.Stephen Fry is away
Dancho Danchev and Finjan have noted a big increase in cross-site scripting (XSS) attacks using iFrames and SEO (Search Engine Optimization) techniques that make the results prominent in search engines. In fact, a Google results page could have more infected page links than clean ones.InMassive IFRAME SEO Poisoning Attack Continuing, Danchev says the sites affected include USAToday.com, ABCNews.com, News.com, Target.com, Packard Bell.com, Walmart.com, Bloomingdales.com, WebShots.com, Sears.com, and Forbes.comThese sites have not actually been compromised. The basic problem comes from sites saving (caching) search results without checking the input correctly. The hackers can thus add iFrame exploit code to redirect users to a malware site. Google is then indexing and serving up the saved searches. (Why? In many cases, the result of the search is that nothing useful is found! They're just polluting their own results with crap.....)The iFrame typically tells Windows users that they need to install a new codec, which results in them installing a Trojan, which then downloads further malware code in exchange for money.Finjan contacted Googleon March 4 and reports:Google acknowledged that this was a known attack vector, and confirmed that they are indeed working on ways to manipulate and "sanitize" links provided by them in an effort to minimize the effect of incidents such as XSS on indexed sites. They also share our opinion on the reality of XSS and its affects on web browsing: "Google recommends that sites fix their cross-site scripting vulnerabilities as a priority. These can be abused in a number of ways, including bad interactions with search engines. Google is helping by reaching out to affected organizations. In addition, Google has internal processes to block abuses when the situation warrants."Have a look at this Sunbelt blog,Massive amounts of malware redirects in searches, posted last November. This showed that licking on apparently innocent searches such as "netgear ProSafe DD-WRT" will have Google providing you with infected links to click.Finjan points out that XSS is a significant security problem for Web-based applications, adding:Search Engines -- you have the money and the resources. Although it's OPP (other people's problem), you can help prevent and mitigate such incidents (kudos to Google for their ongoing efforts).Hmm. If users can't trust the links in a search engine results page, it doesn't look like an OPP to me.....Obviously you should have your browsers fully patched. It may also be worth turning off iFrame display (in IE7, it's under the Tools|Internet Options|Security tab, Custom settings -- and you shouldn't still be using IE6). Otherwise, the Avira Anti-Vir guard is just one of the free products that seems to do a good job of blocking attempts at iFrame and HTML exploits.
At traffic lights on Regent Street recently, I realised that the road ahead of me lay empty - a truly rare occurrence in central London. Nothing but tempting, open Tarmac, heading north towards Oxford Street, for, ooh, at least 15 yards. Heart pounding, I reached for the large plastic gear-knob on the dashboard of my freshly upgraded G-Wiz and twisted it to "Boost" mode. Then, as the lights turned amber, I tightened my grip on this electric cart's surprisingly snug steering wheel and forced my foot down hard on the accelerator.Nothing could have prepared me for what happened next. The engine exploded into a spasm of gleeful whining. The tyres bit deep into the road and I was slammed back into my seat by awe-inducing G-forces as the horizon suddenly bounded up to the windscreen. "Easy, tiger," purred my sultry companion, instinctively placing her hand on the jewel-handled pistol secreted in her stocking top.OK, maybe not. For one thing, my companion, who was from GoinGreen, the firm that markets the India-built G-Wiz in the UK, was male and he wasn't wearing stockings, so far as I could tell. He was also 6ft 7in. When he said he'd come along for my test drive, I assumed he would have to choose some parts of himself to leave behind. Not at all. Every bit of him got in, and relatively easily, so the four-seater G-Wiz scores surprisingly well for head room.Anyway, the bit about Regent Street is true. And the bit about the Boost mode - new to this G-Wiz, along with a higher top speed and an increased range. Boost mode won't, obviously, cause your hair to stand on end, but it does pick you up and sling you forward a mite more forcefully - almost, you know, like a car.It isn't, though. The charge-and-go G-Wiz is technically classified as a quadracycle. This means it bypasses all EU car-safety regulations and is probably best not driven into a wall at speed, even with the enhanced safety package advertised by the updated model.Think of the incentives, though - or certainly in London. Free admission to the congestion zone! Free parking! Free charging at selected, council-installed powerpoints! No road tax! Of course, if you ever intend to drive out of the city, you'll need another vehicle, which changes the pragmatic, ecological argument a little. And if your travel needs really are restricted to short-range journeys across town, isn't the eco-sensitive solution not an electric car at all but public transport?It's good fun, though. Even its spartan aspects could be passed off as a heritage experience. (Remember sliding side windows? Remember no cup holders?) The G-Wiz can tap into that gleeful feeling you had the first time you were allowed to steer a dodgem on your own. It offers urban driving reimagined as go-karting.And, reassuringly, bystanders don't honk and point. OK, I was in Soho, where most people are so self-absorbed or stoned that you could spin around the streets in a hollowed-out polar bear without attracting much in the way of a second glance. Nevertheless, in the fourth year of its life, and with 1,000 of the last model sold, the G-Wiz is, it seems, officially unremarkable.My tip for enhanced crossover success: make one that looks less gawky and more like a Fiat 500. In fact, exactly like a Fiat 500. Then nearly everyone will want one.
In the zero-day hacking contest at CanSecWest (belowandbelow), the Windows Vista and Ubuntu machines survived the second day while the Mac was pwned in two minutes. For thethird day, the challenge was made much easier, but the prize halved. The organisers said:we are now opening up the scope beyond just default installed applications on those laptops; any popular 3rd party application (as deemed "popular" by the judges) can now be installed on the laptops for a prize of $5,000 upon a successful compromise.The ability to add some hackable software did for the Vista notebook after 7 hours, "after it was installed with the latest version of Adobe Flash". The Ubuntu machine survived unhacked, which is impressive. No one managed a hack even with the incentive of $5,000 and a free Sony notebook.
No More Heroes, WiiAs the world's 11th best hitman, your job in No More Heroes is to kill the 10 assassins above you to become number one. It opts for a cel-shaded look, which in spite of the Wii's increasingly creaky-looking graphics gives the whole thing a surreal, slightly futuristic sheen. Action consists of a series of sword fights where you dispatch groups of henchmen before taking on each of the top 10. The process of defeating enemies - using a combination of swordplay, throws and finishing moves delivered with a flick of the Wii-mote - feels so good you continually anticipate the next grouping of sword fodder. You also save by sitting on the lavatory. Well designed, quirky and abjectly silly, it's a superb piece of software.&#183;Rising Star, &pound;39.99PicoZ Tandem Z-1 And Micro MX-1 Extreme, Radio controlled toysThe concept of an indoor radio controlled Chinook, the army's giant twin-rotor, heavy lifting helicopter, is one that is immediately attractive for its complete insanity. The 17cm long Tandem Z-1 not only makes this a reality, but also manages to deliver a significantly more stable and rewarding piloting experience than its mono-rotor forebears, albeit one that's noticeably trickier to get the hang of, even with the assistance of its detachable plastic stabilising fin. By contrast, the MX-1 does nothing differently apart from being very, very small, weighing in at an unlikely-sounding 7 grams and fitting comfortably on your palm. The downside is that it's harder than its bigger brothers to fly in a straight line and is prone to wandering off to batter itself against curtains and light fittings, not that it will ever cause any damage.&#183;Fromfirebox.com, &pound;39.95 & &pound;24.95Frontlines: Fuel Of War, PC, Xbox 360The plots of first person shooters amount to fleeting excuses for the carnage you're about to cause. In the case of Frontlines: Fuel Of War, that justification is a global energy crisis that has ignited the good old East v West conflict you thought had cooled off in the 1980s. Not that plot has much bearing on action that is clearly derived from EA's Battlefield series and Ubisoft's Star Wars Battlefront games, which means you take the role of a infantryman, sniper or drone operator, whose special abilities layer on top of your standard running and shooting skills. Capture checkpoints to advance your frontline, assisted either by friendly troops - who for once generally make themselves pretty useful - or real people if you play online in maps that can accommodate as many as 50 players.&#183;THQ, PC &pound;34.99, Xbox 360 &pound;44.99
I have a Hewlett Packard PDA which I synchronise with my PC at work. At home, I use an iMac - is there any way I can make it talk to both machines?Despite improvements in compatibility between Microsoft and Apple computers in recent years, relations are still a long way from perfect. Your PDA or phone may work with a PC, but getting it talking to your Mac can feel impossible. There is software that irons over the bumps, however. I've recommended the Missing Sync fromMarkspace.combefore, and it's widely regarded as the leader in the field. It costs $39.95, but rarely fails to do the job - simply pick the option you need (the Windows Mobile option in your case) and download. Of course, if you're taking information off a work computer, your IT department may not be too keen on the idea.In a recent column I mentioned recording the BBC's Listen Again radio shows so as to play them back for personal use. It's easy; I use Audio Hijack for Mac, a $32 program fromRogueAmoeba.com. Readers Nick and Keith recommend the free, open-source audio editing program Audacity (audacity.sourceforge.net), which works on all platforms.
(Photo byPaul &amp; Alineon Flickr; some rights reserved)Do Apple's MacBooks have a problem with their plastic cases cracking - perhaps mainly on the lower right-hand corner? That seems to be the implication of the experiences of some MacBook owners, who have set up theMacBook casing defects Flickr pool, currently boasting, er, 35 members.But Brian Ford on Newsvinenoted the same problems, as has John Gruber (well,for his wife) and "a ton of readers". Oh, and includemywife in that. Lower-right hand corner as well.The problem seems to affect both white (cheaper) and black (pricier) MacBooks. Cause? Unknown. But it's longstanding -this Apple discussion(since closed for comments) goes back to 2006.However it's of a part with other problems Apple has had with plastic moulding. Remember thefirst-generation iPod nano screenscratching? Or the (alleged, forBill Bumgarner of Appleinsists there weren't)cracks in the Cube?The media noise on this one is getting louder. What lies under the right-hand corner of the MacBook? Why does it crack?(Updated to use a smaller pic - thanks, merkio.)Update:I've emailed Apple to ask the following questions:what structure is below the lower right-hand side of the MacBook casing (hard drive, power converter, etc)?is Apple aware of MacBook case cracking as a product issue?is Apple taking any action in its manufacturing to reduce the incidence of this cracking?does Apple have any idea why this cracking might occur?is there any manufacturing process reason why this cracking might occur (eg finish line of a mould, etc)?I've asked for a response within the next 48 hours. Let's see..
TuesdayViking impressionsGet ready for Miss BimboNew book takes balanced view on game violenceIn-game guns and the meaning of realismWednesdayFrag with friends for funTake Two rejects EA offerDarwinia comes to Xbox Live ArcadeThursdayByron Review releasedWhat are you doing? Playing a gameByron Review: The evidenceByron Review: The industry respondsFridayElevator pitch: gamesC64 on Wii
Google has suffered a second consecutive month of weak growth in advertising clicks, fuelling concern that the high-flying internet search specialist is suffering in the economic slowdown.Statistics compiled by the research firm Comscore showed a 3% year-on-year rise during February in the company's "paid clicks" &mdash; the number of times users hit Google's advertising links. Although the number is an improvement on January's zero growth, it amounts to a sharp slowdown compared with monthly increases of between 25% and 40% last year.Google maintains that the deceleration is a consequence of its strategy of focusing on quality. The Silicon Valley firm has been trying to eliminate accidental clicks and has been working with advertisers to make sure that links relate closely to users' search queries.But the slowdown has contributed to a 36% slump in Google's shares since the beginning of the year and analysts are divided on whether the company's confidence is justified.Scott Kessler, an equity analyst at Standard &amp; Poor's in New York, said: "It's almost unfathomable that the company has not seen an impact from an economy that we believe is in the midst of a recession."Others were more sanguine. Rob Sanderson, an analyst at American Technology Research, said the number of clicks is less important than Google's revenue, which is based on the clicks converted by advertisers into sales: "It's not clicks that advertisers are really buying," he said.Google's shares edged up in early trading on Nasdaq, reflecting relief that the numbers were no worse.
A MacBook Air running OS X 10.5.2 has won hacker (in all senses) Charlie Miller $10,000 - plus the MacBookProAir that he managed to hack into.Miller was taking part in the CanSecEWest conference, in Vancouver, where everyone who wanted could have a go at taking over any of three machines - a MacBook Air, a PC running Vista SP1 and a machine running Ubuntu 7.10.And it turns out the Mac fell first. Miller, who managed thefirst exploits of the iPhone, exploited a bug in Safari. (As part of the second day of thechallenge, would-be hackers could get the machines to click on links in URLs.)Miller formed the URL which opened a port which let himtelnetinto the machine and read the file he needed to get at to prove his win.Under the terms of the contest, the precise details of the hack are being kept under wraps until Apple has had a chance to look at it and patch it.So. Does this make Apple's apparent security - as in, the lack of viruses etc - look a bit moreOzymandian?We can't get at theCanSecWestsite just now, but it would be interesting to know what the ratios of people trying to hack the machines were. (Update:Macworld reportsthat Miller was "the first contestant to attempt an attack on any of the systems" and that it took him just two minutes. Apple's engineers are reportedly working on a fix.A friend of last year's winner (MW reports still) had a go at the Vista machine but didn't manage to crack it. The rules make it easier on Friday (remember, Vancouver is 8 hours behind GMT) to break into the machines.A good point fromRich Mogull, the new security writer at Tidbits:Although we need to take contests like these with a grain of salt, we can't dismiss the results. Since it took Mr. Miller only two minutes to compromise the MacBook Air, it's clear that he walked in the door with a complete exploit ready to go.That he should have such an exploit just hanging around waiting to go suggests Safari, while it might bewonderfully compliant, isn't as safe as could be hoped. And these days, safety is arguably more valuable than standards compliance.
Police have arrested six children for allegedly using a social networking website to organise gang fights.Detectives acted on intelligence that youngsters had used the internet site Bebo to arrange a series of confrontations involving rival groups across Derby between November and January, Derbyshire police said today.The detained youths, aged 14 and 15, were questioned by officers this week about the fights and their postings on the web, the force said.They have been released on police bail, but five will face final warnings and be made to sign acceptable behaviour contracts, said a force spokesman.The spokesman said: "We have taken what we think is early preventative action before it gets serious."Some people think the internet is private but it's a public place and if they are posting messages that could lead to disorder then that's something we will take a keen interest in."No one was seriously injured in the fights but police warned parents to be aware of what their children were looking at on their computers.Bebo has agreed to take the material relating to the fights in Derby off its site.
I think we need a "Moral Maze" for technology. If you don't know the Moral Maze, it's a BBC Radio 4 programme in which a highbrow panel quizzes specialists on a divisive topic – say, whether animal-human hybrid embryos should be banned, or whether growing biofuels is defensible if it raises food prices – and tries to draw out the keys to the argument.Well, I think we need the same thing for technology. The Technological Maze (look, nobody else has used it yet), but not for trivial stuff like "What camera should I buy?" or "What's all this porn doing on my computer?" but "Is Windows too complex?" or "why have web standards if a growing number of people aren't using browsers that meet them?"The question of Windows seems increasingly important. The fact that Vista is unbelievably complex is a given: the metric of however many million lines of code it includes (is it 50m? Has Service Pack 1,released last week, increased or decreased that?) is often taken as a direct measure of its complexity.But of course that's not close. In a system such as Windows, which has lots of interacting elements, it's not the total number of lines, nor even the total number of elements that indicates its complexity, but the total number ofinteractionsamong the elements – and that rises geometrically, not arithmetically. And then once you start adding in outside elements, such as device drivers, whose quality can run the gamut from brilliant to flaky, you have an extra piece to stir into the complexity pot.It could have been worseVista is alreadylesscomplex than it could have been. When still codenamed Longhorn, it was to have included much more detailed desktop search. But James Allchin realised, some time in 2004, that all that had been planned for Longhorn couldn't be implemented the way it was being planned – using Microsoft's .Net 2.0 programming framework – and strode into Bill Gates's office to tell him it should be done using the successful Windows Server 2003 codebase.Though Gates resisted, he saw sense, leading to what is now known as the "reset" in Longhorn's development. Complexity was cut down. But it's still there. What's worrying is that this giant edifice of code is sure to have rats' nests of code, in part because Microsoft has never, ever been able to cut off its past in the way that Apple has in its move from its "classic" OS9 to Mac OS X, introduced seven years and one week ago. You can't run an OS9 program natively on OS X; but plenty of Windows Me or XP programs (of the same vintage) will run on Vista.That so many people are complaining about SP1 (see the link above) just indicates that this complexity is becoming unsupportable. Microsoft can't cater for all the devices that may be attached and hardware configurations it may find (remember that those, too, increase geometrically), and in some cases the software authors just can't be bothered to rewrite for Vista. Complexity is strangling Windows. Can it find its way out of that maze?You'll find complexity online, too, where the team behind the Opera browser and Apple's WebKit rendering engine (the basis of the Safari browser) hitting the finish line in a dead heat to declare themselves at 100% compliance with theAcid3 test, the latest piece of fiendish HTML dreamed up by theWorld Wide Web Consortium(W3C).Cascading style sheets from hellWhat is Acid3? Well, obviously, it's the one afterAcid2. Which was all about how well a browser laid out a horrendously complex (that word again) piece of HTML including the Cascading Style Sheets From Hell. Acid3 is like that, only worse; apparently the Mozilla Foundation, makers of Firefox, aren't impressed, because the W3C's Ian Hixie (who devised Acid3) sought out layout devices that didn't work in Gecko (the Mozilla rendering engine), WebKit and Opera. "It's not about establishing a baseline of useful web capabilities," is one complaint. No, it's just about making it even harder to design a rendering engine.But here again, the real world doesn't much care. Almost every web page online is imperfect, if you go by the W3C's criteria (possibly even this one,  though I haven't checked it against the W3C validator). The complexity has outgrown the ability of the people who use and develop it to keep up with the twists and turns. If you're not using Opera or Safari, you may find that your browser doesn't meet the Acid2 test either (try it and see).The question then becomes, is any of that extra complexity adding anything useful to the web? Or is it just makework for rendering engine developers, like making them crowd more angels onto the head of a pin? We're deep, deep in the Technological Maze, and all around us are twisty passages leading in all directions. I'm not sure though that we can find a way out of this one in half an hour.Which only goes to show how much more complex technology is than morality.
The likes of Mario Kart and - the surprisingly decent - PES are giving more committed gamers a chance to dust down their Wii. And things are getting even better, with the Commodore 64 channel launching today on the Wii's online Virtual Console store. But before you get too excited the service is only launching with two titles -Uridiumand International Karate. They cost around 3 quid each - which is fine - but while both are generally seen as retro classics I'm not sure how they will stand up today. IK will be ok for a quick bit of multiplayer but tricky shooter Uridium could frustrate today's - let's face it - softer gamers. Of course, what we really want to see on the service areParadroid, Emlyn Hughes International Football and Finders Keepers. Oh, and theFrankie Goes to Hollywood game. C64 games then - what would you pay to play on your Wii?
A few days ago I postedStopping peer-to-peer bandwidth hogs from ripping off the rest of us, about a BT researcher's plea to change the net's "fairness algorithm". The problem is mainly to do with peer-to-peer programs such as BitTorrent. They hog bandwidth by creating multiple streams, to the point where around 10% of users -- the main file sharers -- are now consuming around 75% of the net's bandwidth. This doesn't leave much for the rest of us.The problem is what to do about it. One answer is just to charge file-sharers, say, £1-£2 (or $2-4) for each gigabyte they download. Another is for the BBC (or other content owner) to stump up the money for the bandwidth its peer-to-peer iPlayer is using. But the most obvious solutions are to throttle the connections of people who use P2P, to try to block P2P traffic altogether, or to terminate the freeloaders' Internet connections.In the US, Comcast, the second largest ISP, has been trying to limit P2P traffic for the benefit of the majority of its customers. But it has taken a lot of flak for its pains, and consumer groups have filed complaints with the FCC.CBC Newsin Canada called it "the most drastic example yet of data discrimination by a US internet service provider." It says:The principle of equal treatment of traffic, called "net neutrality" by proponents, is not enshrined in law but supported by some regulations.Now Comcast and BitTorrent are working together to find a better solution. TheBitTorrent press releasesays:The Comcast and BitTorrent discussions have already produced meaningful results. On the one hand, Comcast announced that it will migrate by year-end 2008 to a capacity management technique that is protocol agnostic. "This means that we will have to rapidly reconfigure our network management systems, but the outcome will be a traffic management technique that is more appropriate for today's emerging Internet trends. We have been discussing this migration and its effects with leaders in the Internet community for the last several months, and we will refine, adjust, and publish the technique based upon feedback and initial trial results," said Tony Werner, Comcast Cable's Chief Technology Officer. In turn, BitTorrent acknowledged the need of ISPs to manage their networks, especially during times of peak congestion.The release adds: "BitTorrent and Comcast have also agreed to work with other ISPs, other technology companies, and the Internet Engineering Task Force, to explore and develop a new distribution architecture for the efficient delivery of rich media content."In the short term, Comcast will just do what British ISPs do: try to throttle the connections of the worst file-sharers. In the long term, BitTorrent might be able to come up with a less abusive protocol and somehow get it into use. (I'm not taking any bets.)BitTorrent isn't the only abusive system, of course. But at the moment, it appears to be the one doing the most damage.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
India Knowledge@Wharton, from the Wharton Business School, has interviewedVinod Dham, Father of the Pentium and also of the AMD K6 that, he says, created a "legitimate sub-$1,000 PC industry". He says:Today, of course, people take it for granted. You can go out and buy a desktop for $300 or $400. But back in the 1980s and 1990s when I was at Intel, our plan always was to let the price point of the PC stay around $2,000 and continue to deliver into it a higher-performance microprocessor every year -- that is, to give higher value for the same money to the customer. There was really no intention of selling computers that were cheaper -- just selling computers at a high price point where everybody makes a lot of money, and continuing to deliver higher performance, more value and more applications on that computer.He also mentions the challenge the PC industry faces from the mobile phone industry:India already demonstrated successfully that it can go from not having phones at all directly to cell phones -- for example there are only 44 million landline phones in India, and there are 239 million cell phones. They've leapfrogged the landline business completely. People don't buy landline phones in India because they need not do so. Now there's a fear that Indian consumers will do the same thing to the desktop-laptop industry -- they will leapfrog it completely and instead buy smart phones. I think companies like Intel have a big challenge in front of them.This isn't a new idea, of course -- Bill Gates has been saying it for years -- but it's a factor in India and other developing countries. And it changes the prospects for the Internet, because without landlines there is no ADSL, and no immediate prospect of using a 1280 x 1024 screen.
Jemima Kiss has devised a superb piece of blog furniture over on The Guardian's Digital Content blog: theElevator Pitch. The idea behind it is to offer start-ups the opportunity to sell their wares in a series of 10 very short questions that aim to get at the heart of their product. The result is a fast, furious and content-laden post that provides a feast of information on the breadth and depth of the new ideas that are currently floating around. It's also a nice bit of publicity for the company as well.And so, as a major fan of that segment, I'm proposing we do a similar thing here on the gamesblog, but with game ideas.As I expect there will be far far fewer game developers based in the UK who have games in the bag (though we interviewed Richard Vahrman from Brighton-based GPS gaming companyLocoMatrixon Tech Weekly the other week), this will be a forum for game ideas that are in the process of independent development.And so, if you have a little something you've been working on in your bedroom, or on the side on your work PC, please do get in touch with us at gamesblog+at+gmail.com and we'll welcome you into the lift.
What's your favourite piece of technology?My little white boxes that send the internet around my home using the mains cables in the walls. It's called Data Over Powerline technology, and the little boxes literally plug into a power socket. They let you send the internet, high-def TV and music to any room that needs it. Just plug one into the power socket and Bob's your uncle.How has it improved your life?It means I don't have to use Wi-Fi to get everything round the place, which is great because Wi-Fi is rubbish for anything like TV and music. Especially when you live in a 17th-century mansion with 3ft thick stone walls. Not that I do, mind you. And it means I don't have to run any wires around my house, and that means I haven't had to rip up my carpets, punch holes in my walls or nail anything to a door frame. And that means I'm still married.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I use it every day for everything.What additional features would you add if you could?They're making new types all the time – ones to send TV, ones to boost your Wi-Fi signal. I'll let them carry on inventing new ones...Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Nope – by then everyone will have realised that every house in the developed world comes complete with its own in-built data network – the mains.What one tip would you give to people who are not using Data Over Powerline technology?It's not the only way to get stuff round your house, and it also sometimes doesn't work well. Especially in newer houses where they've put filters on the mains supply between floors. So don't believe the hype and try before you buy. It might be that Wi-Fi will work better for you. It just doesn't for me ...Do you consider yourself to be a Luddite or a nerd?Total nerd. I trained as a computer programmer all those years ago, before giving it all up to do a radio show. But presenting Click lets me combine my love of tech and my love of myself. And if I'd said Luddite, I'd be fired.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I've got a pretty swizzy laptop. I use it for rough-editing parts of my reports, and for playing around with CGI software.Mac or PC?We're constantly accused of being anti-Mac on our show, which of course we're not. Macs are like pure-bred pets – they're rare, expensive and don't like mixing with the rest of the world. They're fine-tuned to work in a certain way. And if they go wrong they cost a fortune to fix. PCs are like mongrels – they're cobbled together from random bits, and are generally less fussy about what they mix with. I use PCs at work, and so I use PCs at home.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?It's a dead heat between the Monkees' Daydream Believer and the Killers' Mr Brightside extended mix on the new Sawdust album. Perfect mix of bittersweet lyrics and electropop.Will robots rule the world?Yes. Haven't you seen The Terminator?!?What piece of technology would you most like to own?A TerminatorClickairs on BBC One and BBC News 24 several times a week
Just in case you missed any of these, here's a quick round-up of official responses to today's Byron review publication. They're broadly welcoming with a few provisos here and there.First up,ELSPA(the Entertainment &amp; Leisure Software Publishers Association) supported Dr Byron's advice. "We believe in one legally enforceable system for classification of video games and to build increased public awareness of both the age ratings system and the long-standing availability and use of parental controls on all games consoles," said Director General, Paul Jackson.But the association expressed fears about the BBFC's ability to deliver on Byron's suggestions:We are concerned that the proposals as they stand may struggle to keep up with the public's increasing desire to buy and play on-line.The games industry would need to be re-assured that the British Board of Film Classification (BBFC) would be capable of delivering against any new remit, or whether PEGI may be more appropriate.Unsurprisingly, the Interactive Software Federation of Europe, the body responsible for the voluntaryPEGIage rating system, concurred. Although a press release backing the aims of the report was issued today, with Secretary General, Patrice Chazerand, calling it "a thoughtful and open review", there was implicit concern about losing the classification impetus to the BBFC:PEGI is a rating system designed specifically for interactive content by people who best understand that medium. As the European age rating system of reference, PEGI has been serving about 30 European countries including the UK, for the last five years already.For its part, the BBFC was unremittingly supportive. "I warmly welcome Dr Byron's report. She has listened very carefully to all the arguments, and exercised her independent and expert judgement," gushed the board's director, David Cooke. Seemingly addressing ELSPA's fears he added:The BBFC has been able to handle a major expansion of the DVD market over the last few years, and we are ready and able to take on the extra work envisaged by Dr Byron.One element of the BBFC's self-congratulatory press release may have raised a few wry smiles in certain sectors of the games industry, however:Unlike PEGI, the BBFC has the power, in exceptional cases, to reject films, DVDs and games which have the potential to pose real harm risk.A 'power', you'll recall, that was so effectively exercised on Manhunt 2...Finally, game developer representative, TIGA,chimed in. Again, there was broad backing for the propositions of the Byron review, but TIGA expressed concerns that the industry itself would be expected to foot the bill for, 'waging an information campaign about the ratings systems for games'. CEO Richard Wilson points out to the government that the operating climate is hard enough for European publishers without the huge costs this will inevitably involve.Unquestionably, the Byron review is a useful document, especially in its sound analysis of research methods used to gauge the effects of violent imagery on children. But there's a general feeling that, although a clearer ratings system can only help willing parents make decisions about what their children play, the government can't force anyone into making these decisions - and probably shouldn't even try. There will always be those who'll buy violent videogames for their children regardless of the clarity of the classification signage.This isn't necessarily a judgemental conclusion. Hey, some parents just trust their kids - a perfectly valid position. Plus, in the modern era, we've become adept at filtering out the signs and symbols of official intervention, from health warnings on ciggie packets to emergency advice cards in planes and trains, it's all semiotic sludge floating along on the collective stream of consciousness.What this comes down to is, are parents prepared to take an active, time-consuming interest in what their children are doing with technology? If they are, great. If they're not, no ratings system or advertising campaign on Earth will protect their offspring. Some people just don't want to know that games are adult entertainment these days. Some people don't want to know what it is that teenagers do every night on their broadband-linked PCs. It's just more information static, more looming shadows in the peripheral vision.But do we really want a government that feels it must step in at this juncture?
CanSecWestis a conference in Vancouver, and according to the blurb isthe world's most advanced conference focusing on applied digital security [and] is about bringing the industry luminaries together in a relaxed environment which promotes collaboration and social networking.Yeah, but it's also aboutbig pwning questionslike: which will get hacked first, a Mac running OSX 10.5.2, a PC running Vista Ultimate SP1, or a Linux box running Ubuntu 7.10?If you can show a new vulnerability on the box - whichever one - you get to keep it. The rules arehere:To claim a laptop as your own, you will need to read the contents of a designated file on each system through exploitation of a 0day code execution vulnerability (ie: no directory traversal style bugs). Each laptop will only have a direct wired connection (exposed through a crossover cable) and only one person may attack each system at a time so that each team's exploit remains private. Slots will be available for sign up in 30 minute increments at the beginning of each day. Slots are assigned in random order. Once everyone signs up each morning, spots will be assigned randomly. Any WiFi or Bluetooth exploits will be verified offsite in a secure lab to prevent snooping.So you see, it's quite tough. And:Any vulnerability that the Zero Day Initiative awards a cash prize for, becomes the property of the ZDI, and therefore the winner can not discuss or disclose details of the 0day until the affected vendor has successfully patched the issue.Which could hold things up a bit, depending on the vendor..Today (the second day) it gets easier, because you can direct the machine to a malicious URL. At stake: $10,000. (Canadian, we presume.)Last year the conference saw aMacBook Pro taken over via a Java/QuickTime exploit. The question this year of which of the three platforms turns out to be the first vulnerable will be interesting - though we'd also like to know how many people are trying each of the machines, which we can't find just at present. Any clues?Jack adds: According to InfoWorld,Gone in 2 minutes: Mac gets hacked first in contest. The story says Charlie Millerbest known as one of the researchers who first hacked Apple's iPhone last year, didn't take much time. Within 2 minutes, he directed the contest's organizers to visit a Web site that contained his exploit code, which then allowed him to seize control of the computer, as about 20 onlookers cheered him on. He was the first contestant to attempt an attack on any of the systems.Dino Dai Zovi won last year by exploiting a vulnerability in QuickTime, but this time he didn't play.
Well before everyone was exercised aboutPhorm, there were MBS - more precisely, Micro Bill Systems of Leeds - which angered many by its business model: you clicked "OK" on a long legal statement to get at some pr0n, and then found subsequently that your machine kept putting up popups demanding payment to MBS; the longer you delayed in paying, the more popups and the less work you could actually get done.It cause havoc in a number of relationships (spousal and parental). (Need a recap? SeeLegal wrangles over porn billing software(31 May 2007) andPorn bill company opens new front(24 January).)Yesterday came theannouncement from the OFTof "undertakings to the OFT following numerous complaints about the appearance of 'pop-up' notices demanding payment for membership of adult content web sites on consumers' computers."The undertakings include that MBS will not:cause more than twenty 'pop-ups' notifying users of liability for payment to appear on computers that have been used to access its web sitescause more than one 'pop-up' to appear on computers that have been used to access its web sites in any 24 hour periodcause the appearance on computers used to access its web site of more than ten 'pop-ups' that are locked opencause those 'pop-ups that are locked open to remain open for more than 60 secondscause any 'pop-ups' to appear on computers that have been used to sign up to access MBS web sites beyond the expiry of six weeks after payment has become duefail to provide information about how consumers can have the 'pop-up' generating software uninstalled at any timefail to make it clear in the sign-up process that the consumer is entering into a contract andfail to make it clear in the sign-up process that 'pop-up' bills will appear on consumers' computers when payment becomes due or is outstanding.But will this be a case of stable doors and horses? For MBS is, we understand, no more - or soon to be so. Instead it is morphing intoPlatte International Ltd, which is offering films (not just porn) through 'getfilmsnow'. (Apparently there is also a Platte company registered in the British Virgin Isles owned by a wealthy Chinese individual - though we don't know if there's any connection.)Happily, no. In the notes from the OFT press release, it says thatUndertakings were also given to the OFT by Platte International Limited, which the OFT understands will be taking over Micro Bill Systems Ltd' operations.However Platte hasalreadyupset some people:An icon has appeared on my desktop called 'Platte Account.Ink'. I delete it around 10 times a day and it's been there only a few days. It relates to something called Platte Media, and I dont know why or how this icon installed itself because i have never heard of it. It opens itself countless times to tell me my account is overdue and how I can pay, but I haven't subscribed to them so how can I have an account?It all sounds awfully familiar. This one could run and run...(Thanks toMichael Pollitt, who has been very effective in following this story over the months.)
German site Pundo3000 has a comparison ofwerbung gegen realitätbased on comparing photos of food packages and the foods inside. The video gives you the idea, obviously.Funtasticushas a version that puts more photos on one page, with the drawback being that it doesn't load most of them, if any of them, at the moment (presumably the site is under terrible strain).As most of us probably remember, you could do the same thing with children's toys. My question is, what about technogadgets? What have you seen that's disappointing when you see the reality compared with the way it's presented in the advertising or packaging?
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
The world's first commercial handheld cellular phone, the Motorola DynaTAC, from 1984.Motorola, once famous for its car radios, has decided to split in to under pressure from aggressive investor Carl Icahn, reportsThe Guardian. It says it will spin off its large but loss-making mobile phone division into a separate company next year. But this isn't new territory for the company: it createdFreescaleby spinning off its chip division, once famous for the 68000 line used in industry incompatible PCs such as the Apple Macintosh, Atari ST and Commodore Amiga.Motorola's more recent problems have revolved around the huge success of the RAZR phone. That boosted the handset division. Unfortunately it wasn't able to come up with anything sexy enough to replace it. Sales declined and the share price plunged.As theNew York Times briefing pageon Moto records:Cellphone production is the largest division of the company, with $18.99 billion in net sales in 2007, a 33% decline from a year earlier. In the split, announced on March 26, 2008, the cellphone division will be spun off. The company's other two units -- set-top boxes and communications equipment for businesses -- are smaller but profitable.The company has been under pressure from the investor billionaire, Carl C. Icahn, who has led a fight against the company's management the last year saying it has not done enough to increase the share price. While he was unsuccessful, his complaints prompted, in part, the departure of the chief executive, Edward J. Zander, in late 2007.According to Motorola: "Creating two industry-leading companies will provide improved flexibility, more tailored capital structures, and increased management focus - as well as more targeted investment opportunities for our shareholders."That's nice, of course. However, if Moto had a fashionable phone, it wouldn't be splitting, and splitting doesn't get you a fashionable phone.What the Motorola handset business really needs is either to combine with an up-and-coming Asian company such as Samsung or LG (as per Sony Ericsson), or get itself bought by Nokia, which dominates the world market but is weak in North America.Motorola obviously knows this. The best indication that things really are bad at Moto is that neither of these things has happened. Yet.
Video games could be forced to carry cinema-style age classifications, with tough penalties for retailers who sell them to children.The new proposals come in anew study published todayby psychologist Tanya Byron who is best known for her work as child behaviour expert on TV show Little Angels and House of Tiny Tearaways.Listen to the launch of the report at Gamerbase, The Trocadero, Piccadilly Circus, London. We hear from Tanya Byron, alongside schools secretary Ed Balls and culture secretary Andy Burnham.
Chapter 6 of thegovernment's independent reporton the effects of internet content and video game violence on kids and young people, has a detailed analysis of the evidence on video games.The Byron Review, released today, provides an excellent and balanced view on what the outcomes of playing actually games has on the players, based on the scant academic research in this area. Without a doubt, this isthemost important chapter for anyone with an interest in this area to read, as it presents the research rather than the knee-jerk reactions of both gamers and anti-gamers alike.First, it argues that psychologists based in the UK and Europe have a very positive approach to conducting research in this area, subscribing to what Byron describes as an 'Active Users' perspective,which is social scientific in orientation and argues that reactions to media content are context-dependent. Research from this tradition does not directly ask about questions of effect but seeks to understand player's interpretations and response to technology and the influence of wider social and cultural factors on this (e.g. see work by Buckingham e.g. 2006).This approach considers the gamut of media - from entertainment to news broadcasts - rather than approach the issue as if it was isolated from these spheres of potential influence. Interestingly, one of Byron's arguments is that US-based psychologists argue 'much more strongly' for a link between violent games and anti-social behaviour than their UK or European counterparts (what's been called an 'Active Media' perspective).Other content-based hypotheses considered:There is little evidence of a 'Catharsis effect'There may be wider effects (i.e. beyond violence) on children's attitudes, values and beliefsRealism, interaction and repetition may lead to deeper learningThe arousal brought on during some game play may have the same impact on children as high levels of stressThere is no clear evidence of desensitisation in childrenThere is little analysis of the role played by the developmental stage of childrenByron also examines excessive use, including research on addiction (evidence suggests that there are very few true 'addicts', but many 'high-users'), the impact of games on social behaviour, the impact of gender differences on excessive use and any differences in excessive use by age. In her conclusion to this section, she argues for age ratings, proposing that young kids' 'limited ability to interpret content using context and decider reality from fantasy' are particularly relevant to this issue.But this chapter doesn't only focus on the negative - there are sections on the benefits of games, both online and off, and potential effects of new and emerging technologies.An excellent, well-balanced and well-informed read, and highly recommended to anyone who's ever stood up for games with only the pathetic argument, 'Well, I'm not a serial killer and I play games'.
Let's take a momentary break fromthe biggest news story of the dayto consider a whole new playful experience that's come to my attention thanks tothe lovely Doctoe:Colo[u]rWar 2008!Internet-famousZe Frank(who was warmly welcomed on theTech Weekly podcasta couple of weeks ago) is on a new quest - to bring the summer camp game of his youth online. And so he has chosen the lifeblogging appTwitterto pit like against like, colour against colour, in a fight to the, er, eventual win.What is it all about? Well, as Ze says in hisoriginal post:We used to play color wars at summer camp. Near the end of the year the entire camp would split up into colors, red, green, black, blue, etc... and compete in a series of events: tug of war, egg toss, basketball - sort of like the movie Meatballs, except all within the same camp...So, for a while I've been thinking about how a color war might look online. How would you play tug of war, or other group games that were silly, time limited, and awesome... and more importantly how could you create teams within an already functioning environment to have that same people-mash-up effect that we did at camp.He's Tweetedhere,hereandhere. And I have joined in the fun (Go team Off-White!). And if you have a clever idea for how to bring silly games like, uh, Capture the Flag, tag or King of the Hill (to name a few FPS stalwarts), throw 'em down here or add 'em to the growing listhere.
Warning: may induce nauseaFor once, an American Idol performance from a professional that's more painful than the amateurs' singing: a cringe-making piece of product placement for Apple's iPhone that redefines "awful".Welcome, robot masters! Ow!The Onion, purveyor of fine satire, looks toward a future when robots rule the world and we have to ride in "the human part of the bus". Neatly marries civil rights issues to paranoid fears. (Grammatical errors come for free, obviously.)Oh, did my watch surprise you?It is hard to believe we don't all walk around with Transformers watches, as in this 1980s advert. Maybe in future, when robots rule the world?Got a favourite tech or games video? Tell us about it in the comments!
Update: The full review is now available to downloadhereYou can also access it via theDFES' site, which includes links to the Executive Summary and the Annexes, as well as a special summary for kids and young peopleThe government's independent review of the effects of online content and video game violence on children and young people was released today, and the author, Dr. Tanya Byron, has been on the press trail since 5:30am. But people following this debate (or those who read the front page article onThe Guardian last month) will be little surprised; the Byron Review proposes suggestions which games industry trade bodies likeELSPAandTIGAhave been active in and pressing on for years:· New codes of practice to regulate social networking sites, such as Bebo and Facebook, including clear standards on privacy and harmful content;· A gold standard for the use of console games, including clear set-up guidance for parents on issues such as pin codes and locks;· Better information for parents on how to block children accessing some websites. Byron has been struck that the technology exists to impose timers and filters, but there has been little take-up, knowledge or development of the technology;· A new law based on a 2006 Law Commission recommendation making it unlawful to assist suicide on the internet;· A national council to implement her strategy, with a fixed timetable for industry experts; a parents' panel and child development experts to implement her recommendations.(viaThe Guardian)More information on today's report is at theBBC(and invideo) and, er, theDaily Mail, and keep your RSS readers here as we discover more ourselves.You can hear how Byron approached the taskhere, and Bobbie Johnson will be interviewing the author for next Tuesday'sTech Weeklypodcast later this afternoon.I'll be attending an industry Q&amp;A next week - what would you like to ask Dr. Byron?
My wife and I recently moved to Devon. Although we are in an area where broadband is available, BT are unable to provide a broadband connection as there is a cable splitter on the line. They will not do the work to remedy the situation because it will be too costly. We also happen to be in a 3G black hole, so we can't use a mobile connection.Joe MulveyBT says all its Devon exchanges now have broadband, but it seems your phone line has been DACSed to provide two lines from one. There's a good guide to thathere. BT could still give you your line back and use DACS on someone else's line, if they don't have broadband. Otherwise you could use a dial-up connection with a maximum speed of 33.6kbps, or come to a more formal sharing arrangement with your neighbour, who is currently lending you his Wi-Fi.In the long term, there are other possibilities for rural broadband. The main ones are WiMax, which is a kind of long-range Wi-Fi, and Power Line Carrier (PLC), which sends broadband over mains electricity cables. Intel is a strong WiMax backer and will soon enabledual Wi-Fi and WiMax capabilitiesin cheap notebook PCs using its Echo Peak technology. It would also be simple and effective -- but expensive -- to put a WiMax mast on top of every BT exchange. The UK WiMax rollout is now going ahead: check thefreedom4.comsite (formerly Pipex Wireless) for progress. Freedom4 owns a national licence that enables it to provide WiMax.PLC broadband is making slow progress: it seems to have been going nowhere for more than a decade. However, it does work well within the home, using standard HomePlug devices.One thing I can't recommend is a satellite connection: these are slow and expensive, and you still need a dial-up connection for the "back channel". Also, the system suffers from latency problems as signals have to go into space and back.
I normally use MiniDV or DVCAM for video, but I really need the convenience of a hard disk-based camcorder. Is MPeg-2 the only option, or can I save as MPeg-1? Can I save the audio as uncompressed WAV?Nick WoodThere isn't a simple answer because different camcorders offer different options, and conventions are still being established. Most hard disk-based camcorders can record MPeg-2 while some can record MPeg-4/H.264 and other formats. Some, including a lot of JVC models, can record MPeg-1, but this may be labelled as an economy setting (where MPeg-1 is essentially Video CD). Sound is normally recorded as MP2 or MP3. There may well be some that offer WAV recording, but hard drive cameras have usually compressed things pretty heavily to make the best use of the limited storage space and bandwidth.If you really want WAV sound, the pro approach would be to record it separately, but you just said goodbye to convenience.Currently, the leading manufacturers seem to be pushing AVCHD (a Sony and Matsushita trademark) for camcorders. AVC is one of the two formats used for Blu-ray movies. Presumably this makes sense if you have suitable editing software, a BD burner, Blu-ray player and a high-definition TV set. If not, I assume you use a PC to convert it to something DVD-compatible. Anyway, AVCHD allows for Dolby AC-3 and Linear PCM sound, but in all cases, check the actual features before buying.
I am going abroad with VSO for 2 years. I have bought a laptop running Windows Vista, and I would like to load it with pictures and iTunes music from my Mac.Vincent McDonaldCopy all your Mac files to CD or DVD, being sure to copy them as data. You can then copy the files from CD to the Windows machine, on which I assume you'll already have installed the latest version of iTunes. Store the discs somewhere safe as a backup. There's a discussion on theosx.tribe.netsite. iTunes also has a Back up to Disc feature, and an alternative is to transfer iTunes files via an iPod, asApple explainson its Support site..
Abbey's online banking site recommends that I "upgrade" my web browser from Safari to Netscape 7.2. (I use Mac OS X 10.5.2.) This seems bad advice given that Netscape now recommends Firefox, which Abbey doesn't like either. What do you suggest?Mr SmithIf Safari doesn't work, try using Firefox with theUser Agent Switcheradd-on. This lets you set Firefox to tell the Abbey site that it's a browser it likes. At first, I thought Abbey might be concerned aboutSafari phishing, (like PayPal). However, having seenAbbey's technical help page, it just looks hopelessly out of touch.
When I open My Computer on Windows XP SP2, the C drive is not shown. Other users on the same computer do not have this problem.RichardDownload TweakUI, which is one of the free tools on Microsoft'sXP PowerToys site. Run TweakUI and expand the My Computer section. Tick the box for the C: drive to unhide it. There are, of course, other ways to get to your data on C, and the usual approach is to run Windows Explorer. You can also do it by typing C: into a browser address bar, or into XP's Start|Run box, and hitting Enter.
Any tips for uninstalling McAfee VirusScan and SecurityCentre?Ed DrakeMcAfee has removal instructions, and a McAfee Consumer Products Removal too, MCRP.exe, on itswebsite.Note: it is not compatible with Microsoft Windows 98 or ME.
Nintendo may have kept handheld games alive with their quirky releases for the DS, but this one is really just a series of 20 tutorials and a few clever gimmicks. Solo mode helps you learn the tricks while Magic Show lets you perform them with the aid of the supplied trick cards or by drawing, tapping or even blowing on the device itself. However, any game that encourages you to cover your mistakes by blaming the device is somewhat clutching at straws. So, while it's a slick, original approach for the very young, the real magic lies in how Nintendo squeezes &pound;25 out of a pack of cards and some instructions you could just as easily Google for yourself.
While not a massive departure from the original game, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 polishes the squad shooter action and adds a pile of role-playing depth. Every kill is logged, with the points edging you closer to the next promotion and new goodies. Further character personalisation is available through the face scan option using the Xbox 360 and PS3 camera. But the meat of the game still revolves around clearing rooms and tactical shootouts in hotels. Playing through the story on your own is perfectly entertaining - controlling your squad is satisfyingly easy - but the real thrills are online. Terrorist Hunt, where you team up with other players to take out computer-controlled assailants, is particularly enjoyable. In many ways, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 feels like a buffed-up version of the original game - the graphics are adequate, though hardly a leap forward - but the slick controls and character development features make this a must for fans.
There has been tremendous enthusiasm for the Asus Eee PC subnotebook, mainly because of its low price - it starts at around &pound;200. But the big question has still to be answered: is the Eee PC a one-off, or is it ushering in a new era of subnotebook use?Dell is already selling 15-inch Vista notebook PCs at similar prices - the Vostro starts at &pound;179 plus delivery and VAT - but more than a dozen companies are hoping this is a new era. They are launching Asus-style subnotebooks, usually based on one of two reference designs: Intel's Classmate PC, like the Eee PC, or Via's NanoBook design, like the Packard-Bell EasyNote XS aka Everex Cloudbook.The subnotebook PC has taken a long time to take off. Hewlett-Packard had a good go with the Omnibook 300, which had the option of a 10MB Flash drive, instead of a hard drive, in 1993. Others included the Toshiba Libretto in 1995, the Sony C1 in 2000, and the FlyBook in 2005. All failed to sell in volume.Part of the problem was that people expected a subnotebook PC to cost less than a traditional big-screen portable. However, the costs of miniaturisation, including low-power x86-compatible processors, and lower sales volumes usually mean they cost as much, or more.At one stage, I thought Intel and Microsoft had given up. In 1996, Microsoft launched the all-new Windows CE for small devices such as PDAs, tablets, subnotebooks and (as Windows Mobile) smartphones. CE did not require an x86 chip and could offer longer battery life at lower costs. However, sales of CE-based subnotebooks such as Compaq's PC Companion also failed to take off.Intel acquired the StrongARM chip and its designers, originally from Digital Equipment Corporation. ARM designs are now used in most handhelds and mobile phones, including Apple's iPhone, in preference to x86 processors.But times have changed. Two years ago, Microsoft spotted that the popularity of portable DVD players and digital picture frames meant cheap 7-inch LCD screens were becoming available, and launched the Origami or Ultra Mobile PC project. Intel, enjoying the success of the low-power Banias chip used in the Centrino, abandoned the hot-running Pentium 4 NetBurst architecture and refocused on low-wattage designs. And instead of investing in StrongARM, now called XScale, it sold off the operation to Marvell Technology Group in June 2006.Intel now has high hopes for two tiny x86 chips codenamed Silverthorne and Diamondville, which will be sold under the Centrino Atom brand name. Intel says Silverthorne is "10x lower power than ULV Dothan", an ultra-low voltage Mobile Pentium chip used in later Centrino notebooks. Diamondville will become the standard chip for Intel Classmate PC designs, and it is also targeted at the OLPC (One Laptop Per Child) XO-1. This summer, Asus will bring out a new Eee PC 901 with an 8.9-inch screen and a Diamondville processor. Both Acer and HP will have high-volume Diamondville designs, and Dell is also looking at the idea.Microsoft and Intel love the idea of subnotebooks because they are often an incremental sale. At one time it seemed astonishing that most people would ever buy a personal computer. Now the idea is to sell people at least four, chosen from a desktop, a portable, a subnotebook, a mobile phone, a Windows Home Server (if that's possible), an MP3 player and a games console.It doesn't matter if they don't all use Wintel technology, because a proportion will. Intel and Microsoft just have to do well enough for the extra sales from new platforms to outweigh the lost desktop sales. That's not necessarily easy, but nor is it the end of the world.
Worlds on filmNokia is supportingPangea Dayon May 10 "to connect people by harnessing the power of film".Oh my God, they freed Kenny!South Park Studios, now in beta, offers a guide to the cartoon series and plans to offer full episodes free.Sims 3 on the wayEA has a site to discuss and testSims 3, which it expects to launch in 2009.World wide netComScore researchersreportthat the US  accounts for only 21% of the world's internet users, down from 66% in 1996.Plogg saversPloggsare energy metering plugs that can be logged using a PC or phone and a Bluetooth or ZigBee network.This PC is magicTheIllusion PC,an entry in a NextGen PC design competition, uses magic to hide its internal hardware.IE8 ToolkitMicrosoft has released anIE8 Readiness Toolkitwith an early beta of IE8.Tree plantingPlant an online tree at theWWF's siteand it will plant a real tree in Borneo.Quicker is betterGoogle plans to penalise slow-loading websites by giving them a lower Quality Score when users click onAdWords.
Broadband optionsMy wife and I recently moved to Devon. Although we are in an area where broadband is available, BT are unable to provide a broadband connection as there is a cable splitter on the line. They will not do the work to remedy the situation because it will be too costly. We also happen to be in a 3G black hole, so we can't use a mobile connection.Joe MulveyJS:BT says all its Devon exchanges now have broadband, but it seems your phone line has been DACSed to provide two lines from one. There's a good guide to thathere. BT could still give you your line back and use DACS on someone else's line, if they don't have broadband. Otherwise you could use a dial-up connection with a maximum speed of 33.6kbps, or come to a more formal sharing arrangement with your neighbour, who is currently lending you his Wi-Fi.In the long term, there are other possibilities for rural broadband. The main ones are WiMax, which is a kind of long-range Wi-Fi, and Power Line Carrier (PLC), which sends broadband over mains electricity cables. Intel is a strong WiMax backer and will soon enabledual Wi-Fi and WiMax capabilitiesin cheap notebook PCs using its Echo Peak technology. It would also be simple and effective - but expensive - to put a WiMax mast on top of every BT exchange. The UK WiMax rollout is now going ahead: check thefreedom4.comsite (formerly Pipex Wireless) for progress. Freedom4 owns a national licence that enables it to provide WiMax. PLC broadband is making slow progress: it seems to have been going nowhere for more than a decade. However, it does work well within the home, using standard HomePlug devices. One thing I can't recommend is a satellite connection: these are slow and expensive, and you still need a dial-up connection for the "back channel". Also, the system suffers from latency problems as signals have to go into space and back.HD camcordingI normally use MiniDV or DVCAM for video, but I really need the convenience of a hard disk-based camcorder. Is MPeg-2 the only option, or can I save as MPeg-1? Can I save the audio as uncompressed WAV?Nick WoodJS:There isn't a simple answer because different camcorders offer different options, and conventions are still being established. Most hard disk-based camcorders can record MPeg-2 while some can record MPeg-4/H.264 and other formats. Some, including a lot of JVC models, can record MPeg-1, but this may be labelled as an economy setting (where MPeg-1 is essentially Video CD). Sound is normally recorded as MP2 or MP3. There may well be some that offer WAV recording, but hard drive cameras have usually compressed things pretty heavily to make the best use of the limited storage space and bandwidth.If you really want WAV sound, the pro approach would be to record it separately, but you just said goodbye to convenience. Currently, the leading manufacturers seem to be pushing AVCHD (a Sony and Matsushita trademark) for camcorders. AVC is one of the two formats used for Blu-ray movies. Presumably this makes sense if you have suitable editing software, a BD burner, Blu-ray player and a high-definition TV set. If not, I assume you use a PC to convert it to something DVD-compatible. Anyway, AVCHD allows for Dolby AC-3 and Linear PCM sound, but in all cases, check the actual features before buying.Abbey on SafariAbbey's online banking site recommends that I "upgrade" my web browser from Safari to Netscape 7.2. (I use Mac OS X 10.5.2.) This seems bad advice given that Netscape now recommends Firefox, which Abbey doesn't like either. What do you suggest?Mr SmithJS:If Safari doesn't work, try using Firefox with theUser Agent Switcher add-on. This lets you set Firefox to tell the Abbey site that it's a browser it likes. At first, I thought Abbey might be concerned about Safari phishing,  (like PayPal). However, having seenAbbey's technical help page, it just looks hopelessly out of touch.Mac to VistaI have bought a laptop running Windows Vista, and I want to load pictures and iTunes music from my Mac.Vincent McDonaldJS:Copy all your Mac files to CD or DVD, being sure to copy them as data. You can then copy the files from CD to the Windows machine, on which I assume you'll already have installed the latest version of iTunes. Store the discs somewhere safe as a backup. There's a discussion on theosx.tribe.net site. iTunes also has a Back up to Disc feature, and an alternative is to transfer iTunes files via an iPod, as Appleexplains.Missing C:When I open My Computer on Windows XP SP2, the C drive is not shown. Other users on the same computer do not have this problem.RichardJS:Download TweakUI, which is one of the free tools on Microsoft's XPPowertools site. Run TweakUI and expand the My Computer section. Tick the box for the C: drive to unhide it. There are, of course, other ways to get to your data on C, and the usual approach is to run Windows Explorer. You can also do it by typing C: into a browser address bar, or into XP's Start|Run box, and hitting Enter.Uninstalling McAfeeAny tips for uninstalling McAfee VirusScan and SecurityCentre?Ed DrakeJS:McAfee has removal instructions, and a removal tool, MCRP.exe, on itswebsite.Backchat&middot;Alastair Clark wanted an open source content management system for the Wirksworth community web site. Graham Mitchell fromMC3suggestsDrupalor Joomla!. "Both are award winners in the open source CMS field. Personally, I favour the power and flexibility of Drupal." On the Ask Jack blog, two out of three people suggested Joomla! while the other preferred Drupal.&#183;Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor, atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk.
In sight of free data?Am I stating the obvious, or have I not been paying attention (In sight of victory, March 20)? Surely the issue to which the government should be paying attention is VAT receipts. Paper items such as newspapers, books, maps and charts do not attract VAT, but their electronic equivalents do. Those of us who use electronic mapping are hit with a triple whammy - buying the original paper map/chart (which all good navigators have to do), buying the electronic version, and paying VAT on the latter.The VAT receipts on the resale in electronic form of government data would surely recover the licence fee income lost by the trading funds such as OS and UKHO.Nick Thomas,HadleighFarewell, Arthur CThe death of and tributes/obituaries re Arthur C Clarke reminded me of how much he influenced my childhood interest in space and of how, in 1954, I was given his The Young Traveller in Space as a Christmas present. Over the last few years or so, I tried to interest several people in the pages from that book of his predictions of satellite broadcasting. But to no avail; it all seems so obvious and mundane to those who have known no other. But for the 1945 generation, what an amazing era of "imagined things come to reality" we lived through.Stuart Booth,Blandford ForumThe limits of broadbandIn the response to the question about broadband speeds, there was no mention of contention ratio (Newly asked questions, March 20). I live near an exchange and can get download speeds of 8Mbps from BT. At busy times this drops to less than 2Mbps. My assumption is that there is insufficient capacity at the exchange to meet the demand from a number of users simultaneously.Derek Waters,via emailHow to foster creativityVic Keegan argues that broadband and increased math and engineering emphasis in schools may well do the trick, but this is misguided (Creativity shouldn't be limited to finance, March 20). The fastest road to a more vibrant creative class is to foster laws that protect people's creativity. Look at Silicon Valley, which penalises conservatism and rewards risk taking. It does this through an investment class that makes capital plentiful and laws that reject anti-competitive agreements. These would be good starts for the UK.Cnet.comLighten up on keyboardYou could not see any need for a laser keyboard, or any way in which it would be better than a mechanical version (Technophile, March 20). I suggest three situations: where the data has to be input by operators with dirty hands; where the person operating the keyboard has to be scrupulously clean, such as hospitals; and where data is normally input using barcodes, RFID tags etc. Your article was based on the assumption that a laser keyboard would be aimed at the mainstream office market.Peter Holland,via emailOf course, comparing it to a tactile keyboard isn't really fair. It would be nice to see a comparison of typing speed and accuracy on Celluon's keyboard compared to a virtual touchscreen keyboard or another mobile input technique like T9.Touchusability.comNobody owns ideasGranting the idea that "information" is somehow separate from the natural communications of human beings, that it is "owned" by default, that it is the province of abstract persons like "sovereigns" and "corporation" - merely granting that idea to be true is how we become slaves (We need a Magna Carta moment on information, March 20). I'd reject the very concept that ideas can be owned or regulated. Ideas are not the province of government. They never have been.listbox.comRead all this week's letters in full atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology
There is an ongoing battle between two videogame factions: the ludologists, who believe that game mechanics are everything, and the narratologists, who argue for the importance of story. Narrative games like Metal Gear Solid and Resident Evil usually drive the plot forward through non-interactive animated sequences. The ludologists see this technique as anathematic to the gameplay experience; narratologists say it adds depth and direction. It looked like this bunfight would go on forever.But advances in videogame story telling may yet allow a truce. In Ubisoft's forthcoming shooter, Far Cry 2, you're sent to an unnamed African state to assassinate an amoral arms dealer - but when you arrive you discover that the economy has collapsed and armed gangs are battling in the streets. You must work with these groups to survive, all the while plotting your own moral route through the chaos. The player dictates the story, not the other way around."We call it dynamically assembled narrative," explains designer Patrick Redding. "Rather than having pre-set scripted events, we say 'here is some information that we want the player to have, here are a set of characters capable of delivering that information and here are a number of factors that the player may have influenced previously through gameplay, that can, in turn, influence the way that information is delivered and the kind of missions that are available'."In other words, the story continually evolves alongside the player's actions, adapting to his or her decisions, rather than forcing them along a set path. This way, there's no fissure between you and the narrative universe. On his blog, the game's producer, Clint Hocking, last yearcriticisedthe best-selling adventure title Bioshock for what he called "ludonarrative dissonance": while the player's role in the gameplay is supposed to be about power and self-sufficiency, the story requires you to help another character. The two requirements contradict each other. Far Cry 2 is an attempt to avoid such formal errors.Other developers are in a similar position. At GDC, Erik Wolpaw, the writer behind Valve's brilliant shooter/puzzler, Portal, complained that games often have a rift between ludic and narrative elements. He talked about horror games where players bump into innocent civilians, grill them for information, then run off - there's usually no facility for actually warning these characters about the zombies/ghosts/monsters who're following close behind. It makes no sense.Most games fail to create immersive interactive narratives - they just chuck in a few plot-building scenes and hope for the best. Open-ended titles like Deus Ex and the Grand Theft Auto series point us in the right direction. Now it's time to explore the route further. The dream is that everyone who plays a game gets an entirely different experience. The huge computing power of the current consoles and high-end PCs, together with a new breed of open-minded developers, may turn this into a reality.
In the recently released internet thriller Untraceable, starring Diane Lane, a criminal uses advanced technology to ensure that his own macabre website remains "untraceable" to FBI agents trying to close him down. Cybercriminals in the real world have their own version, "fast flux", to hide the location of phishing and spamming sites and illegal malware.The technique was first recognised in March 2007 by security companies monitoring criminal botnets like Storm and Nugache. By January, it had become a standard weapon of choice for phishers and spammers. Robert McCardle, from security firm Trend Micro, says: "Fast flux is one of the biggest tools being used by criminal botnets today. They are definitely on the rise, and make it even more difficult for web users to be protected."Rise of the botnetsOne of the earliest reported sightings was in April 2006, when Brian Eckman, security analyst at the University of Minnesota, was monitoring a botnet later called Nugache. The basic weakness of botnets or "robot networks" is that they can be easily detected. Botnets are built up by creating a herd of infected PCs or "bots" which take orders from a single Command and Control (C&amp;C) server at the top. When the C&amp;C server breaks cover to give orders it can be detected and disabled, and all the bots beneath it no longer function.But Eckman noticed that the Nugache botnet was spreading peer-to-peer via AOL's instant messenger, using encrypted code as the Command and Control mechanism. This meant it was "headless" and far harder to detect. James Blessing, chair of the broadband group at the UK Internet Service Providers' Association (ISPA), says: "To an investigator [the bots] look like a P2P file-sharing arrangement. There is no head to cut off. They just sit there waiting for instructions."Fast flux techniques were to evolve still further, Blessing says. Early on, the Nugache bot could be detected because it would connect to exactly 22 other static IP addresses. "Now they change the IP addresses they use frequently and use encrypted code."David Dittrich, one of the top US botnet researchers at Washington University, believes the use of fast flux evasion could make botnets like Nugache unstoppable. "The shape and size of the botnet was changing almost constantly. The bots were communicating with each other over an encrypted channel, making it all but impossible to listen in on conversations."Fast flux networks give attackers some key advantages over the older methods of running phishing and spamming sites. In the past, a phishing site would be linked to a single domain. A phisher would register a fake bank site - say, thefakenatwestbank.com; the site must reside on a machine on the internet. But once that machine is spotted (from the domain name system or "DNS" records passed around the net, which translate, say, thefakenatwestbank.com into its IP address, say 1.255.24.16) it will be shut down.Fast flux keeps changing the DNS records (on the orders of one of the machines on the botnet) perhaps every three minutes, thus changing the machine on which the phishing or spam site is hosted. Every machine on the botnet hosts the same site, but trying to shut it down means serially shutting down every single machine on the botnet. This constant "flux" means the botnet's C&amp;C server can't be found, as well as adding a vast new headache to those trying to stop phishing or shut down spammers - who need their sites to stay online to profit.Guillaume Lovet, head of the Threat Response Team at Fortinet, thinks fast flux is growing, especially among phishers and spammers. "They use these fast flux services to host phishing sites, money-mule recruitment sites, spammed sites, because they appreciate the degree of survivability and availability that fast flux adds to their servers."Robert McArdle, AV Specialist at Trendlabs EMEA, agrees that fast flux is a growing problem. "Normally the DNS servers will be hosted on networks that are infamous for being difficult to shut down, such as the networks offered by the Russian Business Network. In the past we had only one malicious webserver to clean up before the threat would be neutralised, now we need to shut down thousands - most of which are home PCs."In February 2008, the Storm botnet used fast flux techniques in a phishing attack on leading UK banks Barclays and Halifax. According to the recent RSA Anti-Fraud Command Centre survey, UK financial institutions accounted for 15% of all banking brands targeted in the world. The Storm botnet is to blame for this newfound popularity for targeting UK banks.Policies in fluxOne solution proposed to the fast flux threat is to introduce a policy that would shut down a site across the net, rather than on the servers of a particular internet service provider (ISP) - a suggestion of the Anti-Phishing Working Group. Guillame Lovet likes it: "A successful action at the malicious server name registrar level would still effectively cut access to the malicious server."The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, ICANN, recently came up with its own recommendations for combatting fast flux hosting (tinyurl.com/ywnj8s). They include proposals that registrars uniformly authenticate any requests for configuration changes to names servers and a minimum "time-to-live" threshold for a name server record: making it obligatory to keep pointing to one machine for at least, say, 30 minutes, could slow down fast flux networks.The most alarming aspect of fast flux is how it might help botnets evade detection in a military or political attack. Dittrich says: "The attacks on Estonian websites were relatively easy to identify and block in a matter of days. Imagine if an adversary was able to control enough computers to use a few thousand here, a few thousand there, for several weeks and stay ahead of their target's defenses because it is harder to find and stop the attacking computers. They would have a potent weapon. More subtle attacks could be used for untraceable espionage and fraud, producing a huge economic impact."
One of the best aspects of videogames is their ability to explore outlandish "what if?" scenarios - as exemplified by Turning Point, which imagines that the taxi driver who struck Winston Churchill in New York in 1931 had killed rather than injured him. It extrapolates the Germans winning the second world war in double-quick time, and starts in a New York experiencing a Nazi invasion. Sadly, though, its premise outshines its execution. Admittedly, it has plenty of nice touches: initially, you must escape from a skyscraper that you are building, you can use enemies as human shields, steal German snipers equipped with infrared scopes and must perform some decent real-world puzzles. General atmosphere, storyline and the art deco look to the visuals are all good, too. But Turning Point is unforgivably glitchy, particularly in the larger-scale shoot-outs, checkpoints are often annoyingly spaced and enemy AI veers unpredictably from deadly to braindead. Nice idea, shame about the gameplay.
As an international recession looms, it is reassuring to read some good business news. Britain's film industry is enjoying a boom. Visits to cinemas rose 3.7% to 162.4 million in 2007, much faster than growth of the whole economy, and box office takings rose 7.7% to &pound;904.9m. But hang on: isn't this an industry, even more than music, in global meltdown because of an epidemic of illegal file sharing? How come it is expanding? Could they be making films people want to see on a wide screen, maybe even spurred by a download? Whisper it quietly, but the music industry - which has been so concerned about free downloads that it has been suing customers - appears to be in a mini-revival itself, thanks to higher pre-Christmas sales and the hype surrounding the Brit awards.That's remarkable. People are still buying despite an estimated 7m bands on MySpace alone offering cheap or free legal music, and the ability to sample 30 seconds or so of any track on iTunes or Last.fm or internet radio for nothing - if you haven't already got it as a giveaway from a journal, that is.The industry claims there are 20 illegal downloads for every legal one, yet it is clearly not affecting the real world on that scale. If a teenager downloads 20,000 tracks, what does he or she do with them? Sell them to others, who could download them for free anyway, or play them sequentially or randomly? Better to listen to the radio which repeatedly pumps out all the current hits. The point is that it may be wrong to download, but it is not affecting sales proportionately; and for sales lost, there are others gained from people like me who have hugely increased their purchases because there is now an easy, affordable way to do it through the likes of iTunes and mobile phones (but beware of unlimited data charges).If the industry had spent more time devising a payments solution for the digital age instead of suing customers, it could have cleaned up. The younger generation supposedly nurtured in a culture of non-payment is the same one that pays &pound;3.50 a shot for ringtones. Why? Phones had an easy payment system.The latest - global - gambit of the industry is to persuade governments to make internet service providers (ISPs) do their dirty work for them by disconnecting repeat offenders. This must be resisted, even though it is bound to have some effect: an Entertainment Media Research survey found seven out of 10 people would cease illegal downloads if they received a warning. That's not the point. To force unwilling ISPs to take powers to cut off internet connections (a priceless tool for education) without even a judge involved would not only not do the job (there would be an upsurge in ISPs based abroad) but would be a precedent for ISPs to police any other activity that happens in their conduit (cue in MI5).One good thing about the industry's misbegotten attitude is that it has spawned a discussion about the nature of copyright. For the first time, the interests of consumers are being listened to along with those of corporate lobbyists (who have succeeded in extending copyright in the US to a ludicrous 70 years after the death of the creator - something being described as "capitalising on the work of the long-dead").Objective studies of the economic consequences have found the period that balances the rights of owners against the economic benefits of allowing other creative artists to rework existing copyrights is 14 to 15 years. Patents now have a limit of 20 years. This gives corporations, including pharmaceutical companies, time to make a decent return while enabling them to prepare to exploit the patents of their rivals when they expire - to the benefit of consumers. But an option like this for copyright isn't even remotely on the agenda. And it won't be until the government stops doing what the music industry tells it to do.vic keegan@guardian.co.uk
There is a myriad of peripherals for MP3 players and iPods, but very few use Bluetooth - which is a shame as it's an underrated technology, now mostly confined to providing connections between mobiles and handsfree headsets.Gear4's BlackBox (SRP &pound;99.99) is a versatile and almost portable set of speakers that connects with any Bluetooth device supporting A2DP, the updated Bluetooth standard that provides higher-quality audio support.In practice this means most modern mobiles, and if you add a dongle from Gear4 (SRP &pound;39.99,Gear4 store) to the bottom of your iPod, it will also stream tunes from that. It seems to be a bit fussy with the iPhone, though, requiring you to put it into flight mode before it will stream to the speakers.It won't work with a Mac laptop: in theory, the latest version of Mac OS X Leopard will play nicely with the BlackBox, but I couldn't get my MacBook running OS X 10.5.2 to pair with it, and the documentation warns that it doesn't work with Macs. Unfortunately, the box actually features a picture of a MacBook Pro. Don't be fooled by that.Using it with my mobile, a Palm Treo 500, was painless. When you switch the BlackBox on, it looks for any compatible Bluetooth devices. It paired with my mobile quickly and then it was just a matter of pressing Play on my phone.The sound isn't that great, though. To my non-specialist ears it sounded muddy, despite each speaker claiming to pump out 12W, which, while not up to a big party, would provide background sounds at a civilised dinner party.It's better if you use the 3.5mm line-in to connect a device by wire. It sounded less muddy with my iPod hooked up in this way, but the lack of a dock is an odd omission: iPod owners have plenty of mobile speakers to choose from and most of those will charge their iPod, too - this one won't.Looks-wise it's cool. It feels solidly built, though a bit too bulky to throw in a backpack. The minimalist, shiny surface attracts fingerprints and when all its lights are flashing it's hard on the eyes: the front panel leaps into life with a visualiser, which can be turned off.It has one nice trick when used with a mobile: if your phone rings it will pause the tune so that you can answer the call (though you can't use it as a handsfree set) and then return to the track when you hang up. It comes with a remote that I would probably lose quite quickly: it's flimsy and small, but works well.Power options are either to plug it in to the wall or fill it up with four C-size batteries, which would add significantly to its weight and make it even less attractive as a travelling companion.Great in the garden, not bad in a small room and good with a mobile - but remember that Bluetooth is a battery-muncher on most phones.Pros:Good looks, Bluetooth connectivityCons:So-so sound, no iPod dock, doesn't work with a MacGear4.com
If it would benefit the wider economy to make more government data free - as the first detailed economic study for the UK demonstrated earlier this month (In sight of victory, March 20) - how could the government, squeezed by a slowing economy and public sector debt, implement it without raising central spending?One answer being floated is a simple surcharge on Land Registry transactions to make up any loss in direct revenues from making the Ordnance Survey's MasterMap, its most detailed map, available for free. The calculated benefits according to the study by Cambridge academics for the Treasury are dramatic: for a cost of between &pound;12m and &pound;30m in "lost" revenues from sales of its MasterMap and Large Scale Topo products, the wider economy would benefit by &pound;168m.Covering lost revenuesBut with economic indicators all heading southwards and public sector debt forecast to grow, the Treasury is unlikely to countenance paying the difference in the short term. So why not add a levy to Land Registry transactions to cover the "lost revenues" to OS? Land Registry is the trading fund which notes changes in ownership of land parcels throughout the UK. Every sale of a home or piece of land must be reported to the Land Registry, which is the registrar of deeds for 21m land titles covering 59% of England and Wales.The idea of a levy is attractive because demand for Land Registry registrations is "inelastic": their price doesn't dictate demand. Registrations are byproducts of other transactions, usually of far greater value: the average UK house price sale for January was &pound;186,000, but the cost of registering only between &pound;50 and &pound;110.The idea of a levy on Land Registry transactions was first suggested by Robert Barr, managing director of Manchester Geomatics. Ed Parsons, the former chief technology officer at OS, took up the idea recently on hisblog: "Rather than licensing data to create revenue, why not fund the activities through a registration process? The biggest user of OS large scale data is the Land Registry. It would be simple to add a fee to each property transaction to fund the OS."Would it work? According to the Land Registry's figures, the total number of transactions over the past three years have averaged 7.07m - principally "first registrations" (when a land plot's ownership is first registered, costing between &pound;30 and &pound;700) which made up 36% of transactions; "discharges" (the removal of a legal charge such as a mortgage, attracting no fee, that make up 38%) and mortgages (formally, a legal charge against a title, making 19.5% of total transactions, and costing between &pound;40 and &pound;700).A surcharge of just &pound;2 to each transaction would generate a &pound;14m funding stream for OS - enough to cover the estimated cost of making MasterMap and the Large Scale Topo free. Excluding discharges brings the average number of transactions down to 4.5m - implying a surcharge of &pound;2.67 for the same revenue.Potential pitfallsBut the Cambridge economics study also gave an upper estimate of the cost to government of moving the OS to a free data model. At &pound;30m, it is substantial. But again, that could be covered by a &pound;4.24 surcharge per transaction, or &pound;6.67 if discharges are excluded. Key questions remain, though. Will the number of Land Registry transactions remain at this level with house prices falling and a stagnating market? Meanwhile, Land Registry is under pressure to lower its costs, but they would have to fall considerably to make the cost of an OS "subsidy" substantial compared to the total transaction cost.Interestingly, the Ordnance Survey of Northern Ireland (OSNI) seems to be taking this route already: it is merging with its Land Registry, Rates Collection and the Valuation and Lands Agency to create theLand &amp; Property Services. But as Will King of GeoData Solutions notes: "It would be great to see geodata becoming cheaper and easier to licence because of this, but I'm afraid the move looks like central government cost-cutting."The government may not like thinking about free data, but if it is serious about fostering creative industries, this is one of the key ones. And if this can be done without raising taxes, why dither?&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blogfreeourdata.org.uk
Sex, money and Wikipedia have combined in recent weeks for a series of scandals. It began as cofounder Jimmy Wales and conservative pundit Rachel Marsden ended a sexual relationship amid leaked private messages, revealing that Wales had intervened behind the scenes in disputes over Marsden's Wikipedia biography, which all predictably drew significant media attention.To effectively understand Wikipedia, it's important to keep in mind that while it's hyped as a quasi-mystical collective endeavour which spins straw into gold, in reality it's a poorly-run bureaucracy with the group dynamics of a cult. Although Wales protested he had not acted "inappropriately", the incident was a typical political scandal and publicised how articles can be shaped by personal influences.It's a political shibboleth that lobbyists buy attention, not specific votes. Influence allegedly arises from having access to legislators, to present one's views, rather than any explicit quid pro quo. Some reports inaccurately characterised the scandal as a matter of directly trading sex for edits. The truth was more prosaic, but arguably even more troubling.Contrary to the mistaken impression that everyone is on an equal footing, Wikipedia has an elaborate hierarchical structure which is infested with cliques and factional conflicts. Acquiring the support of a prominent member of the oligarchy that runs it can be an effective way of getting something changed, possibly against lower-level opposition. Romantic relationships are just one of many ways that Wikipedia's processes can be gamed.Another power motivator is money. In the wake of the revelations concerning Jimmy Wales's actions with Rachel Marsden, Danny Wool, the former Grants Coordinator for the Wikimedia Foundation (which owns Wikipedia), made public various embarrassing disputes over the use of Wikimedia funds and bad internal management. Posts onWool's blogdetailed how Jimmy Wales tried to put a $1,300 dinner for four on Wikimedia's expense account (which was refused), or related amusing conflicts over his retaining honoraria from speaking engagements: "Florence will surely remember his explanation for one of these: 'I don't make any money, and my wife needs a washing machine.' Her response was wonderful: 'A gold-plated washing machine?' ... "The news coverage then expanded to consider general funding issues, and aspects such as involvement of the venture capitalist Roger McNamee of the firm Elevation Partners (tinyurl.com/2x4ymz). McNamee reportedly personally donated at least $300,000 and facilitated two other donations of $500,000 (tinyurl.com/2hu8ly).While all this would be no more than average for a high-flying business executive, the corrosive problem is that it's indeed no more than average for that type of person. A loss of faith can occur when acolytes hear of their self-described "spiritual leader" taking up the cause of a paramour, accused of being extravagant, and developing connections with investors whose profession is putting large sums of money into projects with the goal of reaping even larger sums of money.It's little help that Wales certainly never took any vows of celibacy, poverty and obedience. The culture of Wikipedia itself encourages a kind of self-denial for its heavy contributors, of volunteering to supposedly serve a greater social good. To be fair, some theologies view worldly success as a mark of God's grace. So amassing secular riches has never been an absolute disqualification to being an evangelist.But, ultimately, one lesson from all these scandals is yet more evidence that Wikipedia fits a familiar pattern of idealism being vulnerable to exploitation. I sometimes remind people that ideological communes tend to end badly, too often with a few manipulative leaders extensively profiting at the expense of a mass of followers who lose everything.Wikipedia has already passed through a stage where flaws from human interactions become manifest. The volatile combination of funding difficulties, internal tensions and venture capitalists indicates there may be worse to come.&#183;sethf.com/infothought/blog
John Rogers is a founder professor of materials science and engineering at the University of Illinois. Recently, he managed to do what nobody else has done - build the world's first all-carbon nanotube transistor radio. Its circuits are made from arrays of carbon nanotubes and, in one experiment, even picked up a local traffic report.He's not making very tiny radios, as the word "nano" might suggest. But why bother to do the work anyway? Transistors have been around since 1947, finding their way - and becoming smaller - into everything electronic.A carbon nanotube is an arrangement of carbon atoms that forms a hollow tube, more than 50,000 times smaller than a human hair. "Carbon nanotubes have many electronic properties that are better than silicon, and certain capabilities that are impossible with silicon-based approaches," says Rogers.As a materials scientist, Rogers believes his radio is a major milestone. It was put together with help from colleagues and engineers from Northrop Grumman. Single-walled carbon nanotubes were first deposited onto a quartz substrate in densely packed, horizontally aligned arrays (around five nanotubes per micron).The nanotube arrays (individual nanotubes are a few nanometres in diameter and several-hundred nanometres long)  are then incorporated into devices like transistors or circuits using conventional microchip-processing techniques. With many thousands of nanotubes, electrodes, and other layers, the finished semiconducting components are the same physical size as their silicon counterparts.Rogers' radio experiments have prompted many inaccurate headlines such as "Researchers make tiny radio from nanotubes" - it's actually several centimetres across. Carbon nanotubes aren't for tiny radios, though: the technology offers improved amplification properties, very high device operating speeds, and may be deposited from solution onto plastic substrates."We think that RF [radio frequency] analog electronics and flexible electronics are the most promising," says Rogers. "In the area of RF, we are working on Wi-Fi and Bluetooth transmitters/receivers. In flexible electronics, we are working on RFID tags and display driver circuits."Wireless applications would gain from lower power consumption, improved communication fidelity and range. Displays might also benefit from lower costs and higher refresh rates, while emissive displays would become more readily possible. But commercial uses for nanotube arrays are years away yet.Rogers says: "There is now a very clear pathway for building circuits and systems with nanotubes. We use the arrays as a material alternative to silicon. We are not attempting to replace silicon for the things that silicon already does well."
