"Google Inc has offered to blanket San Francisco with free wireless Internet access at no cost to the city, placing a marquee name behind Mayor Gavin Newsom's effort to get all residents online whether they are at home, in a park or in a cafe," reports theSan Francisco Chronicle."The offer by the popular Mountain View search engine was one of more than a dozen competing bids received by the city before its deadline Friday. Officials will review the submissions and decide which, if any, of the candidates gets the green light to build the so called Wi-Fi service, which would be free or inexpensive for users."Comment:Later, the story says: "San Francisco is a notoriously difficult city for blanket Wi-Fi coverage because of its hills, valleys and tall buildings. To ensure a good signal, Google would install up to 30 small Wi-Fi antennas per square mile." This gives some idea how expensive it would be to provide Wi-Fi in more than a handful of cities... and makes you wonder whether it's worth it, given the arrival of WiMax.
Wario Ware: TwistedGame Boy AdvanceNow Sony has entered the handheld gaming market with the unutterably shiny PSP, Nintendo knows it has its work cut out ensuring players don't stray. The result is a string of portable releases that includes cutesy Nintendogs and the totally essential Advance Wars DS, and starts with a new Wario Ware title for Game Boy Advance. Wario Ware: Twisted, detects your Game Boy's angle of tilt, meaning the shamelessly off the wall micro-games all rely on physically turning your machine, opening up an impressively diverse set of new play mechanics and zaniness with a Wario theme. Perfect handheld entertainment, that unfortunately, owing to the constant twisting, makes you look dangerously malformed.&#183;Nintendo, &pound;30Archer Maclean's MercuryPSPAfter Super Monkey Ball it's difficult to imagine a maze-tilting game that doesn't feature at least a degree of armpit scratching, and it's testament to the very high standard of Archer Maclean's Mercury that its focus on a small blob of liquid metal proves just as rewarding. Using the viscous qualities of your mercury to keep it on too-narrow platforms or split it in two for some of the more hair-raising tasks, the lateral thinking and dexterity tests prove fascinating and addictive. They also hint at shortcuts only discovered through assiduous experimentation - scoring top in all the game's worlds opens up a secret one. Inventive, subtle, palm-sweatingly difficult puzzle action.&#183;Atari, &pound;30Revolution Controller announcedEnding months of speculation, Nintendo's president, Satoru Iwata, presented the much-vaunted controller for the company's new console, the Revolution. Talk of touch screens, gyroscopes and mind-control can now safely be put away until the next internet rumour-frenzy, and we can instead start getting used to the idea of controlling games using what looks like a standard TV remote. Placing sensors either side of your TV to measure the controller's movement means you can use it like a sword, tennis racket or firearm, resolving many of the issues currently dealt with using a direction pad (which, in something of a cop-out, is included separately). Revolutionary? For once, it just might be.
Those with a keen interest in economic trends and changing work patterns may have noticed a striking allocation of attention in Gordon Brown's budget speech earlier this year. Specifically, they may have noticed that while the chancellor allocated no attention whatsoever to the manufacturing or service sectors, he spent a good five minutes on the "creative" industries, which, he said, were now bringing in 8% of the UK's national income and employing one in 20 of its workers.Noting that, while manufacturing and service jobs were being lost to Asia, creative output was growing by about 20% a year, he promised special support for what looks like a new saviour-sector. It was a statement of faith that put him in line with the prime minister, who has spoken of wanting to make Britain "the creative workshop of the world".Local governments see creative industries as engines for regeneration; businesses speak of creativity as a "core value"; among school leavers, it is the most popular career choice. Their grandparents might have wanted to be engineers and nurses, and their parents business magnates, but they dream of winning the X-Factor, writing computer games and decorating style bars.The government has a fourfold definition of "creative" industries: content creation (advertising, publishing, film, TV and radio, and computer software); design; performing arts; heritage, museums and tourism. However, with most consumer brands trying to give themselves an emotional dimension through marketing (hence all those "Go Create", "Think Different", "Impossible Is Nothing" lines), it seems likely that many more industries will be deploying creative services. Nike execs, for example, like to say they are in the business of marketing rather than manufacturing.It is now perfectly feasible to talk about a time when creative industries are as dominant as manufacturing once was and services now are. That raises a question: what will a creative world be like? Will our workplaces resemble those curvy, white-and-chrome offices we were promised in the dotcom boom, where we would sit around having ideas for eight hours?In this spirit, I recently spent a few months as part of a team pulled together by communications agency The Fish Can Sing, talking to people in Europe and the US in industries where practices were changing as a result of the creative boom. We wanted to explore all aspects of life in a 2015 creative Britain, but in many ways the work-related stuff was the most interesting. After all, work is where most of us spend most of our waking hours, and for all the talk of work-life balance, there is little sign of that changing.Most people thought that because creative work drew on personal vision and feelings, it erased the boundary between "you" and "work".I remember Adam Silverman, a 30-something Los Angeles-based trainer designer who works with the Beastie Boys, lamenting how his generation seemed increasingly keen on referring to acquaintances as "contacts". As home-working becomes more popular, it seems likely that the old distinction between work and play will wear away, and that we may be working all the time. The question is, if work is more fun, will that matter? (And the answer is, of course, it will. Valued staff will get their boss to pay for retreat breaks.)Home-working will become more common than going to the office, with "production" outsourced to individuals designing, writing and coding from a corner of their loft, shed or kitchen table. This would open up the possibility of adapting work experience into a sort of apprenticeship. Individuals working from home say they are periodically swamped with work, yet unable to employ an assistant. Those seeking a career in creative work would surely benefit more from helping a do-er than from photocopying and filing. This seems like something that someone, somewhere, ought to be thinking about.Since those in the creative world will deal chiefly in ideas, it seems only a matter of time before we see the first peer-to-peer "barter board" - a site that works like eBay but with services as payment. Such sites already exist for financial loans (zopa.com) and, interestingly, psychics (keen.com). Individuals might offer PowerPoint tutorials in return for letterhead design, or print services for brochure-writing.There can be hardly a trend forecaster alive who has not predicted that women will gain more power in the workplace as the value of "feminine" qualities is increasingly acknowledged. A cynic might point out a) that while recognition of these qualities might often be company policy, it is not always practised, and b) that this power tends to be limited to non-board positions. But it does look as though women will fare better in the creative world than they did in its service-based predecessor.Perhaps the most appealing prospect is the disappearance of the cubicle-farm model of arranging office space. One can at least dream that the tendency of companies in the advertising sector to have innovative, attractive decor will spread. After all, there will be plenty of design consultants on the barter board to sort it out.Brands will try to intervene in offices in the way they have in schools and sports facilities. And since they will offer new revenue streams, managers will probably welcome them - so long as they do not compete with the office's own brand. How long before the BBC pays for the water coolers in return for advertising space on the cooler itself? Or Vodafone offers branded pods for people working out of the office?The Blairite thinking that brought us public finance initiatives may herald the extension of brands deep into areas of work such as training. We already trust the companies that supply our PCs to teach us how to use them. If we trust the touchy-feely claims of brands, will we not also trust them to train us in the areas in which they claim competency? Brands know they must form relationships with us to compete, and work - particularly creative work, with its engagement of the emotions - will be seen as a big opportunity.Apple already offers training in digital film and music-making with its in-store lectures. If brands began to offer educational packages in special academies, they would only be doing what our churches - themselves great capitalist behemoths - did in another age. What chance Apple academies competing with Church of England schools at some point this century?The politically uncomfortable question in all of this concerns who will do all the other work - the mending, cleaning, delivering, serving and making of mundane stuff we need, such as concrete, window frames and lunch? In the short term, we will do what we always do - encourage workers from poorer countries to settle here.However, there is another possible solution in rotas that have all employees taking a turn at maintenance in their offices; daft-sounding perhaps, but there is an ad agency in Amsterdam that already operates along those lines. In his book What's The Matter With Kansas?, Thomas Frank identifies among liberal American professionals a sense of guilt over their cluelessness when it comes to manual skill. It is easy to connect that with ranching holidays. Could it be projected into offices where you helped out with maintenance in return for a training course?Idealistic, perhaps - but then, the idea of an entire economy based on creative industries seemed not only idealistic but preposterous when William Morris floated it a century ago. As many workers in many offices in Britain can confirm already, stranger things are happening.Web linksThe Creative World reportwww.thefishcansing.comWhat will you be doing in 2015?www.oldjobnewjob.comMore on the workplace of the futureguardian.co.uk/money/worklifebalance
MondayLove is in the airHyped upWeirdness still okay in mobile games industryTuesdayThe next generationi-mode arriving next month: Will the revolution be wireless?They were asking for it: videogames and politics in the USAGaming and mens magsWednesdayMusic for the massesHalo slips to mobileI (heart) Katamari but creator's not so keenXbox loses $4 billion for MSoft in 4 yearsTiger, Tiger, earnings blightThursday10 years of PlayStation adsTechnologyFair trade at last for indie developers?Friday"Spielbergs" of the games industryNintendo top chartsThe most pretentious games of all time
It's friday, so why not put your work aside and spend the rest of the afternoon racking your brains for videogame trivia?Here goes. I was having a discussion the other day with someone who was worried that Rez might be pretentious because it was inspired by Kandinsky - and not Bladerunner or Lord of the Rings like most games. This got me thinking about the most pretentious titles I have played over the years - games with ridiculously convoluted plots, weird objectives or pointlessly grandiose technical ambitions. I've come up with eight suggestions, but there are plenty more out there.Have a read and add your own...Deus Ex Machina(ZX Spectrum) Based around the birth, life and death of some kind of computer generated mutant, this bizarre effort came with a soundtrack tape featuring Frankie Howard, Jon Pertwee and Ian Dury, which you could synchronise with the game. A far cry from Jet Set Willy...American McGee's Alice(PC) First of all, putting your own name in a game title is pretentious – especially a name like American McGee. Secondly, the game is an expressionistic re-reading of a classic novel – this is a really pretentious idea.Daikatana(PC) Pretentious more for the build-up than the game itself: three years of self-aggrandising hype from John Romero. And then what do we get? A dated, mildly entertaining sword slasher. One of the characters is called Superfly Johnson – not strictly pretentious but extremely silly.Omikron: The Nomad Soul(PS2) The name sounds like a concept album from the mid-seventies, and the plot – which involves inhabiting and saving the souls of up to 40 characters – has spiritual pretensions that only a French developer could effectively pull off.Captain Blood(Atari ST) Another French game, this time an ethereal space adventure in which you must save the lead character's life by locating his clones. The alien communication system was clever, but it felt like starring in a less coherent re-make of Solaris. Incidentally, I contacted cult industry blog,The Triforce, to get some ideas for this list and one of them mailed back with: "Captain Blood was AMAZING. Four of us used to arrange our seats to look like a starship and played it together." This made me laugh until I remembered that I used to do exactly the same thing with Elite...Eve(PC) God awful Peter Gabriel multimedia adventure, which I reviewed for Edge back when I was the magazine's lowly staff writer. I think at one point you had to sit in a bath with Peter while experimenting with different sounds. I could be imagining that but there's no way I'm going back to find out.Phantasmagoria(PC) The low-light of a pretentious era in PC gaming, when the arrival of CD ROM technology prompted a whole genre of horrible FMV-packed interactive movie experiences. This ludicrous horror adventure came on seven discs. Seven!Killer7This was Greg's suggestion. At times, the very definition of style-over-substance, despite its political and metaphorical ambitions. Sort of Violent Cop meets Waking Life... Which is a pretty pretentious thing to write.
For the past five or six years, I have consistently been able to connect to AOL at 57600 bps. I have recently bought a new Dell Pentium 4 computer with Windows XP Professional and AOL 9.0 software. Unfortunately, it will only connect me at 24400 bps or slower. I have discussed this problem with the help services at both Dell and AOL, but they cannot come up with an answer, apart from suggesting that I move to broadband! Can you, or your readers, come up with any suggestions? Robin GowingSorry, I don't have an answer. Does anyone?I'd suggest trying one of the free or pay-as-you-go Internet connections to see what speed that gives. If it works at full speed, that tells you it's an AOL problem rather than a PC problem.
Just checking out the latest Japanese hardware sales figures. Interesting stuff. The DS is outselling the PSP, probably due to the incredible success ofNintendogs(plus the fact that there is a lull in decent PSP games). While down the bottom is the poor old Xbox, which sold a pitiful 98 units in Japan last week. This compares to Gamecube's still relatively paltry 2267 and the PS2's 25,518 (surely there can't be too many people left in Japan who don't already own a PS2?) Even the dear old Game Boy Advance sold 4 times as many. We already knew it, but 360 certainly has its work cut out, while DS proves that, in Japan anyway, it is the handheld king.Hardware - This Week | Last Week | Total 2005 Sales1.) Nintendo DS - 68,123 | 72,167 | 1,766,415 [ Sales to date: 3,262,002 ]2.) PSP - 50,629 | 70,152 | 1,335,996 [ Sales to date: 1,818,252 ]3.) Game Boy Advance micro - 46,529 | 170,306 | 216,8354.) PlayStation 2 - 25,518 | 24,396 | 1,452,2265.) Game Boy Advance SP - 12,483 | 11,147 | 538,187 [ Sales to date: 5,533,240 ]6.) GameCube - 2,267 | 1,882 | 159,3917.) Game Boy Advance - 448 | 624 | 19,9878.) Xbox - 98 | 109 | 10,111 [ Sales to date: 470,546 ]
Nicholas Negroponte explains his concept. Photograph: Chitose Suzuki/APMIT has revealed more about the $100 laptop which it says can revolutionise education in developing countries. The One Laptop Per Child initiative says it could have as many as 15 million units being produced inside a year. The laptops are low spec, rugged machines:- runs Linux - rubber coated - crank to create extra power if needed - power adaptor doubles as carry strap - flash memory to save breakages - USB ports - Wi-FiActual prototypes are apparently going to be unveiled in November, but if you're interested in more, we have already written in detail about the plans, with a cover story back in February of this year:Bridging the digital divide. In it, MIT professor Nicholas Negroponte explained exactly why he thought this initiative was important:"Laptops, as we know them, are a luxury - education is not. At $100, this is about learning and exploration, not giving kids costly tools and toys. Almost anything, from healthcare to food to birth control, can be addressed well, if not best, through education.
There may be a billion interetng sites on the Web, but in many cases, I'm only interested in results from one of them, or maybe from a handful.Rollyo-- now out in beta -- lets you create a searchroll of sites to search. The site says:Your searchroll is a collection of the sites you trust and find useful. It's a personal search engine you create to provide relevant results from a hand selected list of reliable sites. You can make as many searchrolls as you want. Just enter the sites you want to search and you'll be off and rolling.Alternatively you can use a searchroll that someone else has created. There are already lots to try. The site also has some celebrity High Rollers who have created searchrolls, not always on the topics you might expect. These include:Library Orgs rolled by Gary Price Pressthinking rolled by Jay Rosen Media Buzz rolled by Jeff Jarvis The Big Answer Deck rolled by Seth Godin Food and Dining rolled by Jason Kottke The Search Search rolled by John Battelle Fashion Sites rolled by Diane Von Furstenberg Modern Furniture rolled by Evan Williams Arianna's All Stars rolled by Arianna Huffington
"A second major peer-to-peer file sharing service waved the white flag Wednesday. In testimony before the US Senate Judiciary Committee, the president of the company that distributes the eDonkey P2P software said that under legal pressure from the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) he was giving up," reportsTechWeb News."Because we cannot afford to fight a lawsuit – even one we think we would win – we have instead prepared to convert eDonkey's user base to an online content retailer operating in a 'closed' P2P environment," said Sam Yagan, the president of MetaMachine, Inc., in a statement before the committee.As the story notes, the eDonkey decision follows the exit of WinMX, as a result of the Supreme Court decision in the Grokster case..Both decisions were driven by letters sent Sept. 15 by the RIAA to seven prominent P2P networks, demanding that they either implement technology acceptable to the RIAA or shut down. eDonkey, which is owned by MetaMachine, received one of the letters, as did WinMX, LimeWire, BearShare, and others.
Late last year Ipostedabout an opinion that emerged from an industry forum that one of the key elements in driving the mainstream to the computer games industry (as consumers, rather than as creators) is to push the "stars". We're not talking pixellated pin-ups like Lara Croft (if you fancy her, that's creepy and contrary to the point), but bona fidehuman being starswho can represent the games industry and take it into the future.Aeropausehas news ofSmart Bomb: The Quest for Art, Entertainment, and Big Bucks in the Videogame Revolution, a new book released in the US in November which focuses on the real-world "celebrities" of interactive entertainment. From the blurb:Smartbomb goes into the epicenter of the videogame explosion, where computer technology is fused with artistic creativity. From the hackers at MIT in the 1960s to the Ferrari-driving developers of the modern-day industry to professional "cyberathletes," we meet the celebrities of the gaming world. It's a dizzying trip through the trade conventions, gaming competitions, and design labs of themenwho are the Spielbergs of their field.emphasis addedWhile I have no idea who the authors have covered, here are a few suggestions from gamesblog's perspective. Note the cynicism.Well, from thereports(andpictures) of Nintendo design deityShigeru Miyamoto's visit to the Nintendo store in New York last week, it seems that we've already got at least one star. But does he count? Can anyone outside of the, er, Feted Inner Core of the computer games business identify him in a lineup? Nah, don't think so.Another person who could make the grade is Sims creatorWill Wright. He's been plastered across as many non-games magazines as possible, fromNewsweekto airline mags, but again, does Will promote the image of the computer games industry that will be embraced by Joe and Jane Bloggs?J "Xbox Guy" Allardseems to have done more photo shoots than Britney Spears. I've never seen him in the same XBox-branded gear in front of the same XBox-branded backdrop twice. He's also been re-styled more than once, which suggests that someone in game-land wants him to be the next big thing. Don't see it happening though.Pro-gamersmay rake in the big bucks, but it's unlikely that their lifestyles of gaming, gaming and more gaming will garner many column inches in Heat magazine.Anyone have any other - realistic - suggestions???
Veteran game designer andopinionated bloggerGreg Costikyan has got together with stalwart US games mag publisher Johnny Wilson to set up a new site for the distribution of independent videogames. According to today's press release,Manifestooffers:"...a single place where fans of offbeat and niche games can find "the best of the rest," the games that the retail channel doesn't think worth carrying. Three types of games will be offered: truly independent, original content from creators without publisher funding; the best PC games from smaller PC game publishers, including games in existing genres like wargames, flight sims, and graphic adventures; and niche MMOs."Of course, there are already plenty of sites offering indie downloads, but these tend to concentrate on casual fare, as I've covered before. Manifesto wants to offer a broader selection, including titles that may well be too off-the-wall for retail distribution. Costikyan provides a compelling argument for the Manifesto cause:"The typical game store only has 200 facings," he begins. "They can only carry best-sellers. On the Internet, there is no shelf space and you are limited only by how well you can market yourself, your site. This is where niche product can rule.""The game industry has become moribund," notes Costikyan. "Because of ballooning budgets and the narrowness of the retail channel, it is now essentially impossible for anything other than a franchise title or licensed product to obtain distribution. Yet historically, the major hits, the titles that have expanded the industry to new markets and created new audiences have been highly innovative. It is time for us to find a way to foster innovation, because it's not going to happen if we leave it to the large publishers."So, can Manifesto really bring wider attention to the indie sector? Or do these games remain esoteric for a reason? Given the choice between generic fare like Incredible Hulk: Ultimate Destruction or freeform political adventure,Darwinia- how many mainstream gamers will chose the latter, simply because there might be a higher profile site to download it from?
It was, I joked, a good day to see the inside of the new Terminal 5 building at Heathrow. The weather was squally and Richard Rogers' great glass roof was obscured by driving rain. As a few of the site's 6,700 construction workers finished their lunch, we took a goods lift to the future departures hall on the top floor.If all goes to plan - and so far, the building is running ahead of schedule - British Airways will give up its slots at Heathrow's other terminals to other airlines and move its entire operation to T5 by 2011. With the roof in place and the main building close to being "topped out", it's already possible to trace the journey the travellers catching the first T5 flights in 2008 will make.BAA, which is in charge of the project, hopes that half the passengers will take the Heathrow Express, the Piccadilly line or the planned train link from Reading to the airport. They will stream off the six platforms and up through atriums and lifts lit by natural light into the terminal building. Most of the rest will turn off the M25 on to a raised road and into a new 4,000-space multi-storey car park with taxi ranks and a built-in bus station.Between the car park and the terminal proper, the Richard Rogers Partnership has designed what it calls a "front garden": a space for pedestrians, planted with tall trees, that will run the full length of the 396-metre long building. Bus and cab passengers cross it through covered sky bridges. The contrast with Gatwick's gloomy underground station, obstacle-strewn concourse and sealed-in walkways could hardly be more striking."What we've done - and this is the first time I've seen it done in any airport - is to create a 30-metre wide zone, granite-paved and with interactive screens," explains Michael Forster, T5's design and development director. "It's a separation of car and pedestrian."Standing on the edge of the departures hall, he turns and gestures towards the expanse of the top floor. "You can see the daylight as you travel through. The airport unfolds before you."Rather than being herded into narrow tunnels or into snaking queues, travellers will be encouraged to check in quickly and then gravitate towards the inevitable security checks and the planes on the other side of the building.Forster points to a hole in the floor: "That's one of the baggage drops." Instead of queuing up in front of a bank of desks, passengers will be encouraged to use one of the hundred or so check-in points scattered across the front of the hall. Those who haven't already done so will be able to enter the advanced passenger information demanded by the US authorities. Checked-in luggage will no longer trundle off on a conveyor belt: it will drop directly into the terminal's 17km-long Vanderlande baggage handling system, and into carts running along railway-style tracks at a speed of 10 metres per second.The early bag drop store has space for 4,000 bags, all of which can be retrieved individually if need be. BA's current store at Heathrow holds 1,700.Five big columns are planned for the hall, some of which will be used as information screens and others for advertising. Cantilevers support the waveform roof, freeing up the space inside.Domestic passengers will head to the left, international travellers with lounge access to the right, and the lucky few travelling first class will enter a completely separate channel of their own.At Gatwick, passengers are tracked by a combination of the barcode on their boarding pass and visual checks of a photo taken at security. Steve Ronald, BA's T5 customer experiences manager, explains that the International Air Traffic Authority wants a more secure means of identifying domestic passengers, who do not have to carry a passport with them. That means T5 will have to collect its own biometrics from passengers and check it at the gate. "There's a lot of work to do," says Ronald, when asked about the significant rejection rates for this type of technology. He admits that it will be a challenge to avoid queues at busy times, though he promises the wait will be "far, far better than we have at peak times today".Once past the security checks, passengers without lounge privileges will be able to admire the planes from the waiting area. "Our view is that it is going to be as good as BA's lounges," says Forster. The whole area will be a Wi-Fi zone, though BA is reserving judgment on whether to make it free.Ronald is proud of BA's plans for the lounges. First class passengers will have the Concorde Room, those travelling Club a large space to themselves, and Silver Executive Card holders yet another area. The main lounge will boast views of the Surrey Hills as well as an outdoor terrace.What passengers won't see are the two artificial rivers that used to run across the 260-hectare site. The Duke of Northumberland's river, built to feed Syon House in the 1540s, and the Longford river, which carries water to Hampton Court Palace, have been diverted to the perimeter. Their wildlife moved with them."They were quite interesting rivers with quite important ecosystems," says Forster. "We've created the kind of water habitats that were there before." Encouragingly, 95% of the channels are now open and the project was very favourably rated by CEEQUAL, an environmental quality assessment for civil engineering projects.Terminal 5 was vehemently opposed by environmental campaigners and took eight years to be approved. BAA's response has been to stress the project's sustainable credentials. Run-off water, for example, will be collected and the resulting "grey water" used to flush toilets at T5.Once their flight is called, one of the longest escalators in Europe will carry passengers down to the underground transit. The tunnel runs under the apron to reach T5's satellites - known as "toast racks" because of the aircraft gates along their sides. The furthest of the two will be used for long-haul flights and the big new A380 planes. Short-haul passengers will depart from gates closer to the main terminal building. The final visual treat will be the 39-metre high waveform roof looming into view just after take-off.
Another Thursday, another issue ofTechnology. The gaming editorial focuses on the Playstation's 10th Annivesary, with our very own Aleksleading the celebration. Also we speak to some industry bods, including bearded code hippieJeff Minter, and ask them how Sony's console changed the gaming landscape. Ourreviewthis week is Burnout: Revenge which gets 5 stars and a heap of praise. Blimey.
What are the advantages and disadvantages of portable computers? AI DeedPortable computers generally take up less space than desktop systems. They are not suitable for full-time use, but are great if you want to spend an hour surfing the web, then slide them under the sofa, or put them in a drawer.The disadvantages are, however, many. Portables usually have a lower specification than desktop computers, and run slower, but cost more. They are also harder to expand, and more expensive to repair. Some may be less reliable, due to overheating problems. They are certainly less ergonomic, and spending too much time hunched over a notebook is bad for your neck and spine.At the extremes, a desktop tower has plenty of room for large, cheap, generic drives, graphics cards and suchlike. A portable designer usually has to choose smaller, more expensive components that use less power, and fit the case. And while a desktop PC could have a £10 power supply and a £100 monitor, a portable might use a sophisticated £200 battery and a £400 LCD screen.Over the past five years, however, the price gap has narrowed dramatically. The price of notebook PC parts has come down as sales have gone up, and prices are more comparable now that most desktop PCs are sold with flat-panel LCD screens.We have also seen the arrival of so-called "desktop replacement" portables - some even use desktop PC parts. These machines tend to be big and heavy, and have large bright screens. They don't last long on batteries, but that doesn't matter, as they are usually plugged into the mains. Rather than being designed for executives to use on planes, desktop replacements are aimed at home users, students and anyone else who wants a PC that doesn't take up so much space.Most portable computer suppliers offer a wide range of designs from slim but expensive ultraportables to hulking but cheap desktop replacement machines. It's just a question of finding the balance of portability, power and price that meets your needs.
I try to read Italian newspapers online. Is there software that will produce on-the-go translations for highlighted words? John PorterWordReference offers free online translation dictionaries for Italian, French and Spanish atwww.wordreference.com. It also offers a toolbar that lets you look up words from your browser, but the results appear in a separate window. The AltaVista toolbar's Translate button lets you translate words typed into the searchbox, text selected on a web page, or pages, but again, takes you to the Babelfish site. What you really want is a toolbar like Google's, which translates words when you hover the mouse over them. Unfortunately, the Google Toolbar only translates from English to other languages, not from (say) Italian into English.Backchat:It seems alternative browsers have, in this case, better options than Internet Explorer. Roger Knight suggests using Firefox with the Googlebar, which started when Google's toolbar was only available for IE. Mark Udwin suggests using Firefox with the Translate extension: "Translation is simply a matter of highlighting the single word or the whole article, right clicking on it and selecting the desired language. The translation then appears in a new tab courtesy of Babelfish." Mick Citizen suggests the now free and ad-free Opera browser: "Right-click on a highlighted word, phrase or paragraph in Opera, and a context menu offers Lycos translation to and from French, German, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese and Japanese", among other things. Finally, Andrew Turner chides me for omitting to mention one of WordReference's best features: its forums. "These are set up for language students (of any age) to help each other learn. They are true online communities where people freely give their time and expertise to help others."
Wanadoo (formerly Freeserve) has decided to block emails to the 200 addresses of my tennis club members. It thinks it's spam if there are more than 12 recipients! All they have suggested is to split them into groups of 10. Dave CooperMany ISPs are blocking mass mailings, though it doesn't seem to have reduced the amount of spam around. I'd suggest switching to a mailing list distributor such asTopicaorCoollist. All your members will have to sign up in order to receive your emails, and will be able to unsubscribe.
Can Google Talk be used with a webcam to see as well as chat to friends and family? Ray DevaneyNot yet! However, video chat is a common addition to instant messaging programs, and Google can be expected to introduce it sooner or later. As a Windows user, you could try the newMSN Messenger 7.5, which seems to do good full-screen video. There are also lots of third party options, such asSightSpeedand "eye speak" oriSpQ.
I suppose I have to accept the current obsession with the mobile (Ask Jack, September 15), but a DAB radio tuner on an MP3 player -- that would be something. John PalmerRay Devaney (above) asked about this last year, and I suggested the Perstel DR201, which wasn't available. Now there's also the DR301, which supports MP2 (ie DAB), MP3 and WMA. Seewww.perstel.co.uk/productsnew.html#dr301.
Illustration by Bill ButcherThursday, as always, is the day for the weekly Technology Guardian supplement.Our lead piece this week is on thefuture of Google, and is written by John Battelle, author of The Search. You can also put your questions to Johnhere.Elsewhere, we look at the latestinnovations, Aleks Krotoski writes about thetenth anniversary of PlayStation- which is today - and Jack Schofield wonders how Microsoft will deal with itsmidlife crisis.And let's not forget our monthly business technology sectionBusiness Sense(formerly Business Solutions), which leads on an interview withGetting Things Done guru Dave Allen.And that's not all.Click herefor the complete contents of this week's edition.
"German inventors have devised an interactive beermat that can be used for pub games and tell the barman when it's time for a refill," reportsAFP. . "The device, created by computer scientists Andreas Butz of the University of Munich and Michael Schmitz of Saarland University, comprises a small, flat baseplate with a traditional cardboard beermat on top. . "The plate conceals a pressure sensor and accelaration sensor that react to the weight of the glass and to the position and movement of the beermat on the baseplate."
Intel and Microsoft have, until this week, generally stayed out of the "next-generation DVD" battle, and in the long run, both companies can be expected to support both formats: they will, in fact, support what customers buy. However, Toshiba pushed them into making some sort of move by announcing a notebook PC with a built-in HD-DVD (below), which in effect posed the question: Are you going to support a first-tier Microsoft and Intel customer building Wintel machines?The remaining question was how far to go.Intel and Microsoft went further than I'd expected, for reasons listed in their jointpress release. Tom's Hardware Guide has fleshed out these bald claims with an interesting report,HD DVD support a last minute switch, Microsoft says, based on an interview with "Jordi Ribas, Microsoft's director of technology strategy for Windows Digital Media, and a key developer of the VC-1 codec currently in use by both HD DVD and Blu-ray".The article runs through all but one of the press release's six main reasons for supporting HD DVD, with the first being: "the ability for a consumer to makeauthorized copies of a legally obtained disc, in order to store the content on a hard drive and stream it to devices around the house. Intel particularly wants this capability for its Viiv home entertainment platform, announced last month."But the most interesting reason isdisc storage capacity.On paper, Blu-ray appears to have the advantage. But the two companies looked beneath the paper: Capacity, said Ribas, "used to be the biggest advantage of Blu-ray, and we believed it. We thought, they'll get 50 GByte BD-ROM discs working, but it's not happening, and it's nowhere in sight. There are not even pilots. It's only in the lab that they are building these discs." With regard to demonstrated capacity, he told us, HD DVD-ROM actually leads BD-ROM by a score of 30 GByte to 25 GByte.The battle's not over, not by a very long way, but it could be a tougher battle than Blu-ray supporters expected. I still think Hollywood and the PS3 can establish Blu-ray as the standard consumer replay format, but it's really up to Sony to deliver on its promises. And Sony isn't the powerhouse it used to be.Update:The story continues at Ars Technicahere.
It is ten years since the PlayStation brand launched a new kind of gaming experience. Egads. Central to its success are their consistently excellent ad campaigns, featuring top-name directors and cutting-edge film-makers. To celebrate its anniversary,gamesblogbrings you a not-even-close-to-comprehensive collection of ad campaigns for the PlayStation brand family from around the world. Revel in the creative marketing minds and raise a glass to PlayStation, age 10.PlayStationS.A.P.S.(Society Against PlayStation)Double LifeAccess GrantedPlayStation 2David Lynch's revolutionaryThird Placeand New Zealand Playstation.com'sbehind-the-scenes. In fact, the New Zealand PlayStation archive is a tremendousresourcefor your PS2 ad needs The award-winningMountainadThe Wolf ManMental WealthPorn StarsBubble WrapThe Banned French Ad(not particularly worksafe)PSPThefirstJapanese PSP ad AnotherJapanese ad(extremely long, but worth it for the man in the gold cape)Japanese Subway adsPOVAlice from Wonderland's sister producedthisPSP adFor more detail, headherefor a review of the decade of commercials.
It seems that wireless music systems, so long tipped as the next big thing, are going to reach the mainstream at Christmas. Last week Oregon Scientific unveiled the iBall, a system that connects with an iPod, enabling users to wirelessly pipe tracks from their Apple player to the iBall over a distance of 30m. It uses a variant of DECT called Frequency Hopping Spread Spectrum.At the top end, Yamaha and Sonos are delivering multiroom systems that feature a hard disk server, which connects wirelessly with slave devices.Yet the system looking like this year's must-have is the WACS700 wireless music centre from Philips. The Dutch company pioneered wireless audio with its Streamium hi-fis, and with the new WACS700 it has hit the bulls-eye. Clearly influenced by Bang & Olufsen, the main unit (the &pound;400 Music Centre) is finished in black and silver, and features a CD player and 40GB hard disk. CDs are ripped to the hard drive in either MP3 or WMA format; Philips claims the Music Centre can store more than 700 albums. The device has Gracenote's album database built-in so the track names appear the moment the user pops the CD in.Unfortunately, the ripping process is relatively slow so PC owners might want to take advantage of the Ethernet socket or the 802.11g wireless facility to transfer MP3s from their PC. Once set up, the Music Centre functions as a hi-fi, with its stereo speakers pumping out 2 x 40W.Users can link up to six slave devices - &pound;200 Music Stations - which wirelessly access the main unit's hard drive. These devices, which can be placed anywhere in the home, are around a third the size of the main unit. Overall the system works superbly; the wireless 802.11g connection delivers excellent sound.However, there are weaknesses. The system won't play AAC files, so if you have downloaded tracks from iTunes they can't be played. Also, the Music Stations only have an output of 2 x 10W, not ideal for large rooms. Yet for its simplicity of use, striking design and competitive price, the WACS700 deserves to do well.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
If you were around in the 70s you'll probably remember slideshows, where parents would project embarrassing images of mortified offspring on to a screen for the street to enjoy. Well, the slide show is making a comeback in that many digital camera owners are displaying images on their widescreen TVs. It is simple to do, as some TVs and DVD players feature SD and Memory Stick card readers. Some are even streaming images from their PC to the TV via a networked device.The trouble is that most cameras shoot in 4:3 format, which leaves spaces on either side of the screen when viewed on a widescreen television. Many cameras have a widescreen option but this means losing resolution, which, when viewing images on a big screen, is a serious compromise.Panasonic claims to have delivered the solution with the &pound;400 DMC-LX1, a reasonably compact model with a 4x optical zoom lens that is the first to shoot in true widescreen. Courtesy of its 16:9 aspect CCD and 28mm wide 4x optical zoom Leica DC lens, users can shoot 8.4 megapixel images in the widescreen format - shots that make the most of a TV screen. The camera is also the first to offer 840 x 480 wide VGA widescreen video at 30 frames per second. When viewed on a TV screen, it is obvious it is a significant leap from standard VGA video.The LX1 has much else going to for it, most notably a huge and very bright 2.5in LCD monitor, an extensive range of manual and creative facilities and a clever joystick control for manual features such as focus and exposure. Its other key feature is a very effective optical image stabilisation system, which means the LX1 is steady, even without a tripod. This is particularly useful when shooting at slower shutter speeds.Inevitably, there are a few irritants. There's no optical viewfinder. Also, in 3:2 or 4:3, the images lose a megapixel or two.Nevertheless, the DMC-LX1 is a quality top-end compact. One day all cameras will shoot in widescreen.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
At first glance, a mobile internet service that is more than six years old and has struggled to find a mass market in Europe might not seem like an innovation. But i-mode - developed by Japanese telecoms giant NTT DoCoMo in 1999 - is about to be launched in the UK by mobile operator O2. Its long-awaited introduction to Britain will see the arrival of many groundbreaking features that have rarely been seen outside east Asia.The system, which allows users to surf the internet from their mobile phones, promises a cheaper alternative to under-performing Wap services, which currently let users access the web on the move. It is largely subscription-based, but how cheap it becomes will depend entirely on how many customers buy in: with monthly subscriptions as much as &pound;3 a pop, mobile bills could escalate, but O2 says it has presented a clear pricing structure and a palette of free content that will make it competitive. Checking your bank balance or sending an email, for example, will cost approximately 10p a time.How is i-mode different from current mobile internet services? There are subtle technical differences, but the key thing is to think of i-mode as a kind of mobile "ecosystem" where mobile operators, handset manufactures and content partners develop services together. As one unofficial site says, comparing i-mode to Wap is like comparing Rolls Royce jet engines to Air France.In Japan, where i-mode proved as popular as free sushi, its major selling point has been email. While the rest of the world was getting its fingers in a twist over SMS, the Japanese plugged their mobiles into the email network.Taking a closer look at an i-mode- enabled NEC N411I handset confirmed that the service is faster and more efficient than traditional mobile internet. It was possible, for example, to download Streetmap.co.uk and find a find a London location in four minutes.From mid-December, Egg will offer its customers the chance to transfer money to other accounts using the service. The long-promised age of the mobile wallet may, finally, be with us. There are some notable absences from the bundle of content partners - no BBC or Google, for example - but i-mode handsets do allow you to access the wilder, wider web; but those websites might not work as well as official i-mode ones.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Jeff Minter, games developerPlayStation consolidated the second wave of gaming. There was a slack period before it came when nothing much was happening. Sony was smart enough to sign up great developers like Namco and the whole machine was just better studied - it had a built-in CD, for instance, which was a huge advance and changed the way games were made.Sony has done the world a service by making games mainstream and popular again, but now's the time to get away from multimillion-dollar 3D epics and back to more quirky, distinctive stuff. The PlayStation may not rule the next 10 years like it did the last.Michael Hayes, chief executive, Sega EuropeSony simply got the balance right between image, marketing and publishing. Nintendo and, to a lesser extent, Sega had built their empires on first-party profits. What Sony realised was that to support a large, mainstream base it needed to encourage third-party publishers, and it did so extremely well with access-all- areas support, marketing and good royalties.They created a cachet for the brand without going over the top ... and remember, Sony was a broad consumer electronics badge: there was nothing of the geek about it.Of course, since then others have learned the same tricks, and next time round Microsoft will give it a serious run for its money. But all things considered it has been a great decade to be a games publisher.Rik Skews, production manager, Namco EuropeI was a freelance writer when someone came in with a Japanese PlayStation and a copy of Ridge Racer, and I remember being cynical that anyone could produce a great games machine from scratch. Don't forget, at the time, Macs and PCs were still streaming graphics off the CD - but with Ridge Racer you could take the CD out and still play it in real time. My jaw literally hit the desk.The Sega Saturn was a great machine, but the PlayStation simply eclipsed it and the leap from 2D to 3D was exactly what consumers had been waiting for.Roger Bennett, director general, ElspaBefore Playstation there was a lot of insecurity, in fact I remember Chris Deering &#91;the soon-to-retire boss of Sony Europe&#93; telling me he wasn't sure they'd be around in 18 months ... it's a different ballgame now. More than anything, Sony had fantastic brand awareness, they managed to make it both mainstream and niche - and it changed the market more than any of us expected.Yes, there have been downsides; for independent developers, it's a lot more expensive to produce content - but those that succeed are growing faster, and without the PlayStation it's probably true to say we'd all be struggling now.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Has it been 10 years since we first witnessed the blistering speed of WipEout? Since we watched the heaving rise and fall of Lara Croft's voluptuous silicon assets?Yes, now is the time to reflect upon the double figures of the PlayStation age, and to recall those times when all we really wanted was to zig-a-zig-ah.It's difficult to recall interactive entertainment before the PlayStation came along; so many technological advancements at such an incredible rate means that playing console games in two dimensions to plinky-plonky music seems like the dark ages. While not solely responsible for these digital changes, PlayStation has clawed its way into one out of 18 homes across Europe and is established as the market leader.Sony helped raise the average age of gamers to 26 with its clever marketing campaigns that moved the idea of gaming out of the bedroom and into clubs, theme parks and "third places".Yet, the process has not been a bed of roses. As a long-term PlayStation critic, I'm predisposed to see the thorns. In the move to saturate living rooms, Sony's software glut - more than 1,200 titles are available for the PlayStation 2 alone - was reliant upon brands, their semi-annual updates and a lot of games that weren't great, but were OK. My affections have historically rested with Nintendo, whose releases since 1985 - while few and far between - have piqued my interest almost every time.Over the past year, however, the tide has started to turn. My PlayStation is switched on more often than my other platforms, thanks to genre-busting titles such as Katamari Damacy, Fahrenheit and EyeToy: Kinetic. It is almost as if the brand has become so well-established that the makers feel they have the capacity and the inclination to break into new interactive spheres, turning gaming into multimedia entertainment while experimenting with gameplay designs and drawing unsuspecting audiences into the fold.Of course, the PlayStation series was not the first to have voice recognition, dance mats and online capabilities or even a buxom leading lady. The Sega family, as much a victim of its own innovation and Sony's aggressive release schedule, was a true boundary-pusher.I do worry about which of the consoles may fall by the wayside during Sony's next 10-year bid to take over the world. While I don't doubt the machine will continue to prevail, there will probably still be a flood of so-so releases.New formats and applications will be key to keeping my attention. So, happy birthday PlayStation. Here's to the next decade of pushing the boundaries of what "gaming" means.
Anyone unfamiliar with the idea behind a game like Burnout should think back to the most despicable gridlock situation they have ever found themselves in - and then imagine how much happier they would have felt if their car could simply batter all the traffic out of the way. That cathartic experience is available to you in Burnout: Revenge. It could even be argued that road-rage sufferers should use the game to expend their tarmac aggression in a safe, virtual space, away from real people.The best videogames - as all but those involved in the process of "upholding" the nation's moral standards know - are those that let you do things you never would in real life, due to the risk of social disapproval at best or jail at worst. Burnout: Revenge doesn't just encourage you to drive like a cracked-up joyrider: it forces you to do so. Let your level of aggression slip for a microsecond, and you will be bringing up the rear.Star powerBurnout: Revenge has two major tweaks that allow it to stand head and shoulders above its predecessors. The first, and the more prosaic, concerns the rating system. Previous versions of Burnout, while providing a vast store of joyous gameplay, never really hung together coherently as games. Burnout: Revenge has a Revenge Meter, which you fill according to how outrageously you drive, and can be improved by your final race position. Thus, finish in the gold medal position and you will boost your rating; finish outside the medals, and you won't win anything.This system might sound hopelessly cumbersome, but it works - and it's helped by the integration of "crash mode" into the main game. You soon learn good techniques for boosting your rating, such as favouring the crash missions, which don't last as long as the races, yet yield as many stars. As the game becomes harder, you will revisit stages in a bid to win more stars than before, and when you finally reach level 10 (becoming a "dominator"), you are set such a stiff target that you must revisit previous levels, seeking easy stars from races you previously eschewed. Burnout: Revenge has replay value built in.The other major tweak concerns the physics. Earlier Burnouts have always contained seriously rigorous physics engines, which kicked in, gloriously, when they detected you were crashing. Then they would play back your full, spectacular shunt, complete with realistic car deformation and fantastic sound effects of splintering glass and shattering metal, before your car magically reassembled itself and you could resume. Burnout Revenge takes this further by giving your car the physical attributes of an immovable object.It does apply certain rules to this disregard for Newtonian principles, though: your car is only brick-like when it encounters traffic moving in the same direction. So, you can batter vehicles ahead of you out of the way - and, indeed, use them like giant snooker balls to take out rival racers and traffic on the other side of the road - but if you meet a concrete pillar, a car travelling in the other direction, or an articulated lorry or bus travelling in the same direction as you, you will crash normally.This ability to bump traffic out of the way adds a tactical element, as you can cause rival racers to crash. But, more importantly, it gives rise to a new race mode. In "traffic attack" you earn time extensions by reaching targets for the number of vehicles wrecked and their overall value - so the more carnage you cause, the more you're allowed to cause. In the latter stages, you find yourself hunting for traffic to shunt, and can only prosper by catching vehicles just right so that they cause chain-reaction crashes among oncoming traffic. You are rewarded by messages applauding your "trick shots": become proficient, and you almost find yourself seeking giant pockets in which to pot the unsuspecting traffic around you. All the rageAll the familiar racing modes of past Burnout games are present: road rage, in which you run rival racers off the road; ordinary races; multirace grands prix and, of course, crash mode, in which you launch a car at traffic in an attempt to cause as spectacular a pile-up as possible.Crash mode has been extensively tweaked for Burnout: Revenge, with a control system designed to launch you from a standstill. If you get it wrong, your engine blows to the accompaniment of derisive laughter, and things become harder.Burnout is the title that turned Electronic Arts into the Victor Kiam of video gaming: the US publisher liked the first two versions of the arcade racing game so much that it bought the company that made it. But this is the first version that integrates its super-fast, anarchic gameplay with EA's highly regarded production values. The result will surely go down both as one of the best games of 2005 - and the best arcade-style racing game yet made.Graphics that push the current generation of consoles to their limits, a variety of multiplayer modes and a rewards system that makes you feel like a hero add the final gloss. If your daily commute is driving you mad, get a copy of Burnout: Revenge. It may just help you preserve your sanity.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Welcome to the first edition of Business Sense, our monthly guide to new technology and thinking for small to medium-sized businesses.These pages, to be published on the last Thursday of each month, and growing from the successful five-year run of Business Solutions, serve a dual purpose.As you'd expect for a section published alongside the new-look technology section, we're interested in the latest wired - and wireless - ideas for making your business life more productive and rewarding.In that vein, we hope our lead technology feature this month - on satellite navigation systems - might save you a lost hour or two in the car, or more, depending on your passenger's savvy with a map. The price tags on these once-exotic pieces of kit have fallen dramatically in recent years, and although you can still blow more than &pound;1,000 on a high-end setup, you can now get something that gets you from A to B for less than &pound;200.But this section is not just about drooling over the latest technology kit. We recognise that new technology is only ever going to be productive for you if it's accompanied by an awareness of the broader world of business. So we'll also bring you the latest thinking in SME management, along with practical advice for the more prosaic areas of business life - like finances and marketing. Don't miss Sue Norris's story, inside this month, on some disastrous marketing campaigns that have not only destroyed value, but come close to actually bringing businesses down.Our lead story this month - all about Getting Things Done guru David Allen - is the perfect example of how technology and new thinking can combine to create something that's changing the way many business people work. Indeed, some of Allen's disciples would claim his thinking actually changes their lives, so strong is its influence through everything they do.I'm not going to promise reading our cover story will change your life, but it might help make it a little better organised.
I remember a time when the personal digital assistant (PDA) was far from being a must-have item for the super-organised. People used to keep a small notepad or calendar in their pockets. Things were very simple. But as technology has advanced, more and more of us have moved to computer-based personal information managers, lured by the promise that once you move to a paperless way of organising things, your life can become easier - and much more organised.I used to think that way as well. Of course, there are advantages to using electrical organisation tools. They can be portable, convenient and efficient. You can synchronise documents and tasks from your computer to your PDA. You can install useful utilities and applications, read reference materials, write notes and so on. They have their strengths.But PDAs sometimes disappoint too - think about when you have to learn to use the system, or the special form of writing needed to input information. Worse of all, remember the times when you forget to charge up the battery, you are not able to access it, or it loses all the data that has taken so long to enter. You may have bought it for a couple of hundred pounds - at least - and all you've purchased is a nightmare.Instead of spending all our time and efforts installing applications and learning how to use these gadgets, how about using something that we already know is efficient? Some smart people on the internet have come up with a solution. How about we just go back to the paper-based organiser?On a basic paper organiser setup, all you need to do is to find bunch of index cards, get a binder clip and then clip them together. That's it. You can have this setup for under &pound;5. It's been christened, perhaps tongue-in-cheek, the "Hipster PDA".But while this might not sound totally serious, people around the world are now moving back to paper organisers. Taking things a few steps further, some have made a set of templates for people to download and print, for various uses (www.lifehack.org/tags/template/). You can find yearly, weekly and daily calendars; shopping and finance forms; to-do lists; contacts and so on. They print to standard sheets of A4 paper, or index cards.Technology that helps organise you does not have to be electrically operated; it's all about advancement of an application that suits your daily objectives. Not every business needs a complex system like a PDA to crunch through its to-dos. A cheaper and simpler alternative may prove just as effective. As time management expert David Allen, on the cover of this month's edition, teaches us: the focus is not on finding the most up-to-date system, it is about finding a reliable system that helps you get things done.&#183;Leon Ho edits the time management blogwww.lifehack.org
Many people who've worked from home will recognise the picture. And it isn't pretty. I'm sitting in front of my computer in my dressing gown, unshaven. The clock shows it's 4pm, but doesn't reveal that I haven't set foot outside for three days. That's because I have no need to venture on to Edinburgh's cold, wet November streets. My work, and most of my life, is reduced to a screen, 19 inches corner to corner, and a telephone.Move forward a couple of days later, in the chilly sunshine, and something clicked. I really didn't need to be here. If most of the human contact necessary to earn a living could be made via phone and internet, I could be anywhere.So I started to formulate a plan. There was nothing to stop my wife Barbara and me taking off to Ibiza for a year, celebrating my 50th birthday along the way. We had a small inheritance after my father died which, as long as I continued to earn something, would tide us over. We could put most of our belongings into my "home-office" and let our flat out as a two-bedroom which would, hopefully, cover most of the rent for a place in the sun.We wiled away the winter hours looking on the internet for somewhere to rent. Eventually it became clear we weren't going to find anything and I'd have to spend a few days on the island.Having flown out, I discovered property seemed to be divided into two types. There were places which looked idyllic in summer when indoors was just for sleeping. In the spring drizzle, however, they felt barren and isolated. Alternatively there were apartments built for locals with tiny balconies barely large enough for a coffee table and two chairs. Watching sunshine through the window wasn't the dream.After four hectic days I found the ideal spot. It was modern and owned by a British architect and his wife. It also managed to be quiet despite being two minutes from the beach and 10 minutes from the island's capital Ibiza Town.Feeling extremely pleased with myself I headed back to Edinburgh. The 25 hours it took gave me ample opportunity to think about whether it was really such a good idea to try and work from a small island with no direct flights outside Spain throughout the winter.But, over a year later we're still here. It's four in the afternoon, I'm still unshaven, but it's too warm for me to wear my dressing gown. As much by accident as by design I've ended up as a global telecommuter earning my income in the UK, but living in the Med.I'm sure Ibiza is not the rational choice, but if you can make it here you can make it anywhere. Hopefully, over the coming months, through this column, I'll show you how.&#183;Nick Clayton is a freelance writer, editor of the August Club website, and a web content consultant.
Before beginning this article it's essential to understand one thing - GPS works. This isn't as obvious as it might sound; when it first came out the reaction times of the satellite receivers were occasionally slow and you'd get a command to turn a corner after you'd passed it. It happened to me several times. When I experimented with an early GPS unit in 2001, I ended up missing an entire meeting as a result.It's vastly different now. It's not a matter of finding a GPS system that works, it's a matter of finding the one that suits you best.StandaloneAs a standalone GPS, the Garmin Streetpilot (&pound;199 from PC World) is at the basic end of the market. Taken on a driving holiday in France, the surprise was that I was happier with this than any of the other systems. This admittedly bulky box is in the same sector of the market as the better-known Navman and TomTom brands, but is approximately half the price.After a little charging up it located our car park in the south of France very easily. We said we wanted to go to Beziers and this was where it stumbled a little - it wanted to know exactly where in Beziers and we didn't have a target address. Somewhere central with a car park would have done us nicely. We opted to aim for the town hall and it got us there efficiently enough, noting every deviation we took and amending our route accordingly.I might have quibbles about it not appearing to know about toll roads or traffic jams at particular times, and the fact that of all the systems on test it's by far the bulkiest, but it trumps all that with one feature: it costs &pound;199.I also tried out the Indago sat nav system (www.indagosatnav.com), which told me about accident problem spots, safety cameras and schools and is the size of an early PDA. This is much nicer to use. But was it worth the extra &pound;400 it would take to buy it? If I used it often, and had to carry a case especially for the sat nav, I might come to think so.On your phoneT-Mobile is one of the mobile operators offering GPS on its SDA smartphones. The maps are standard efforts, from Navteq, and set-up was a pushover.Driving is not a great pastime for the easily-distracted and a pet hate of mine is having a brightly-coloured map on display when you're supposed to be looking at the road. I know you're supposed to ignore it and use it only for reference, but this system's technique of switching the thing off until you're coming up to a corner and actually have to do something with it was a definite plus. Unfortunately, the display, relying as it does on a standard sized phone, is tiny.You're better off relying on your ears for directions rather than your eyes, then - but if you do get lost this system starts working out your new route from where you are rather than from where it wanted you to be, and if you're really bewildered then it has a high-speed tracking system that allows your family or colleagues to log on to the web and see where you are. So if you're waiting for a colleague who's using it, you can use it from the office to estimate their time of arrival.A drawback, apart from the screen, is that not everyone wants yet another variant of phone function. The market is already confusing enough.On your PDAIf you don't like the idea of the phone's tiny screen, you might prefer the PalmOne E2 navigation companion. This inevitably includes a PDA from Palm which will work happily with either Mac or PC platforms.There are two advantages to using your hand-held computer for navigation as well as hand-held computing. The first is that you get the scheduling and organising functions of a hand-held computer, which could be useful; the second revealed itself when I was synchronising contacts with Microsoft Entourage (the equivalent of Microsoft Outlook for a Mac). Doing so, I realised I had postcodes of potential destinations entered already; I could therefore plan a meeting with a contact and work out a route simply by entering their name. It all felt much more natural.The software also contains navigation features from ViaMichelin, so there are places of interest and similar additions on offer. Palms have a touch screen already so data entry isn't a problem, and visibility is good. The only drawback to this offering is that you might not want a Palm, or that you might already have a PDA and don't want to change. But at &pound;299 for the whole bundle from Palm's website (www.palmone.co.uk), this is a neat all-in-one package.On your PCOwing to the history of satellite navigation, the PC is where most of the offerings on the market started off. You buy it, you install the software on your computer, hook the GPS unit up to your computer to download the application and the maps, and then take the unit away with you.It's fair to guess that most of the potential customers will already have a PC so it won't matter that, for example, the Medion MDPNA 175 won't do anything until you've gone through the rigmarole above. And once it's installed it's a useful system - UK and Ireland maps are installed on the memory card and are a pleasure to look at.In your dashboardPracticalities dictated that I had to have the Pioneer AVIC-XIR demonstrated to me rather than on long-term test. This wasn't because I didn't actually want &pound;1,129.18 worth (cheapest price I could find on the web) of audio, satellite navigation and DVD equipment installed in my car. It was the screaming, wailing and wearing of sackcloth for a week when it would have been time to give it all back.The upsides of such a system are many. You get your satellite navigation loud and clear through your speakers, the map screen is a decent size and very clear and while you're not navigating your passengers can watch a DVD on optional additional screens in the back seats. It's a magnificent indulgence.However, it's hopeless if one of the components goes wrong - get a fault with the DVD player or the audio and you've lost the lot while it gets sent away for repair.ConclusionThe perfect GPS hasn't been made yet. This is mostly due to limitations in the mapping software; you can't put in "Tooting, car park somewhere" and get a result any more than you could look that location up in an A to Z. By now, though, you'd expect an IT device to be able to handle precisely that sort of fuzzy logic.Of the products currently available, the Garmin seemed to offer the most complete independent solution. The Pioneer was as lovely as you'd expect, but it costs a lot and forces the removal of all your other entertainment accessories.How the latest GPS devices fared when we took them out on the roadProduct:Medion MDPNA 175Price:&pound;279, exclusive to HalfordsWebsite:www.medion.comPros:Lightweight, accurateCons:Needs to be set up via the PCStar rating:4 starsProduct:Garmin StreetpilotPrice:&pound;199Website:www.garmin.comPros:No need for elaborate set-up, works quicklyCons:Bulky and contains only basic informationStar rating:4 starsProduct:PalmOne E2Price:&pound;299Website:www.palmone.co.ukPros:Ease of set-up, finding your contacts automaticallyCons:Too much in it for some customers who'll already have a PDAStar rating:4 starsProduct:Pioneer AVIC-XIRPrice:&pound;1,129.18Website:www.pioneer.co.ukPros:Clear view, clear instructions and it'll interrupt noisy radios to redirect youCons:There's too much going on for some - DVDs, extra screens, it's too complex for a simple taskStar rating:4 starsProduct:T-Mobile co-pilotPrice:Up to &pound;249 with phoneWebsite:www.t-mobile.co.ukPros:Easy set-up and a combined deviceCons:Inevitable small screen and you might not want a combined deviceStar rating:3 stars
Things are different when you have a recognisable face. The rules change, and judgements can come much more rapidly - and publically. It's even worse when your business fails - and your face has become recognisable through starring on a programme devoted to picking holes in other people's business ideas.That's the position Rachel Elnaugh, entrepreneur on BBC Two's Dragon's Den and former proprietor of Red Letter Days, found herself in this summer. And she found it as difficult as you might expect.It is now a couple of months since Red Letter Days went into administration, to be bought out later by two of Elnaugh's TV colleagues. While its future was still uncertain the Daily Mail published an article about her in which former colleagues and staff dished the dirt; entitled "Red Letter Monster", it claimed the company went down owing &#163;12m, which she denies, and cast doubt on whether people who bought Red Letter Day vouchers other than with credit cards would get a refund (the company now says virtually all voucher holders will have their vouchers honoured).Only now is she willing to talk about the events of the summer and answer back at some of the criticism. We meet in the National Theatre's coffee bar while the rest of London is celebrating the England cricket team's Ashes victory and, while not celebratory like the rest of the city, she appears resigned, rather than resentful, about the experiences she's been through.Elnaugh became interested in a business and entrepreneurial career as a child, living over her father's electrical shop. "I always remember my dad saying 'don't go into business, you're making a rod for your own back'." She decided not to take his advice, starting her company aged 24, on a shoestring. It grew to a &#163;14m operation over the next 15 years. The idea was simple enough; you could buy a loved one or employee an experience, be it rally driving, a trip backstage at a theatre, a balloon ride - the possibilities were limited only by the deals Elnaugh and her team could negotiate. "By 2002 we were dealing with all sorts of customers including Sainsbury's and Tesco at one end and Selfridges at the other," she says.But moving into supermarkets had its drawbacks - it meant low-margin, low-profit sales and, ultimately, came to be seen as a mistake. Elnaugh decided it was time to pull back into a more aspirational market.Yet it was around this time that she found her confidence faltering. "I'd built it up to &#163;14m turnover and decided to step back and hire a CEO. I thought, 'I don't have the expertise to run a business of this size'."But the business continued to struggle. She quickly returned and instigated a cost-cutting programme as part of an effort to turn things round. She refinanced the business using her house - which she subsequently had to sell - as security, but it still made a loss of &#163;4.7m for the year."It was like having a hole blown in the side of the ship, and to be honest, although we refinanced it three times and we were working on another refinance when it finally went into administration, it's very difficult to recover from something that big."Real dramaWhile this was unfolding, the role which would make her a household name - as a television entrepreneur - was offered. A producer remembered her from a one-off programme in which she'd taken part."They had hundreds of men coming forward because of some sort of male ego thing; I thought it would just be an interesting opportunity. I don't think we realised how big it would become." She sips at her latte. "It was only about half way through that I started to say 'hey, this is really good - there's real drama happening'."But was it really clever to take this on at the same time as trying to turn round an ailing business? One of the allegations in the Daily Mail piece, made by a former director, was that Elnaugh became more interested in being a TV personality than a business owner.Her expressions suggests this either hasn't occurred to her, or it's old news. "To me, the business wasn't ailing," she says. "The reason it failed was cash flow, and when we went down we had &#163;3m cash in the bank." It clearly rankles her that the Daily Mail's &#163;12m figure gets repeated so much."Most businesses that go down are hugely in debt and the bank pulls the plug. We didn't owe the bank a penny; the issue was getting the money out of that bond and keeping going while we were refinancing. Sometimes you run out of time." She maintains that the reason for going into administration was that this was the best way of minimising job losses.Initially, says Elnaugh, her TV work was beneficial to the company. "The publicity the brand received was great. It virtually became a household name," she says. Red Letter Days didn't have many assets other than its good name, which was being pushed higher by her status in the media. It was this attention, though, that led to much greater than normal interest when the troubles became public. "Mostly, when you fail, it's played out very quietly and discreetly, whereas my experience was played out in the full glare of publicity."And as a business that relied on its good name and strong brand, with no tangible product or assets, it was pressured further by every damning story that appeared.The Daily Mail article still grates. The paper spoke to former employees who said she humiliated colleagues, they said. She was a "tyrannical boss in bespoke pencil skirts, cut to the knee," they added. She was unsympathetic to colleagues' family needs and would issue public dressings down, the paper claimed.Elnaugh doesn't want to address any of the individual allegations. "I just looked at it and thought, 'this is so untrue'." In general she accepts she'll have made enemies. "I don't think there's any way you can start a business from scratch and build it up into the size of Red Letter Days through sheer determination and grit without being hard and tough," she says."If I were a man those would be seen as good, masculine characteristics, but I'm a woman so I get called a bitch, a dominatrix, this kind of predatory female who's some kind of monster." There's no such thing as a nice businessperson, she believes, although for the first time in the interview she's aware she might be saying something controversial. "You're not there to be namby-pamby and nice, you're there to make the business work."The bad headlines and the business collapse that precipitated them emerged just as her fourth child was due - and any thoughts of a decent work/life balance vanished. "I was working virtually to the day I gave birth. It's actually quite difficult going into the meeting where you're trying to refinance your business when you're nine months pregnant. People look at you and whether they say it or not, they're thinking, 'she can't cope, she's not a good bet'."When the baby came on the Monday she was determined to get on and spent only a day in hospital. "It was a crazy situation - I was breastfeeding between meetings; my husband was on paternity leave so he drove me like a chauffeur, phoned me when the baby needed feeding and I'd come out of the meeting to do it."Coping wasn't easy, but she insists it was tougher before Red Letter Days went into administration than afterwards. "During the whole period you mentally visit the extremes, and come to terms with them in your mind. I thought, 'what's the worst thing that can happen' and, 'can I cope', and the answer, of course, was 'yes' - compared to the majority of the world's population I'm quite a privileged person, so of course I could."Opportunity"When the time finally came and I had to throw in the towel - I was still fighting on that day - it was almost a huge liberation. I think I was far closer to having a breakdown during the process than now, because out of the adversity opportunities have come."Life started to turn around when another of the dragons from the TV series bought Red Letter Days out of administration. The new Elnaugh-free Red Letter Days has paid at least something back to the old company's creditors, and 90% of them are still working with the revamped business. Most of the 150 people who were still on the staff when the company was bought kept their jobs, although there were redundancies before the sale.Meanwhile Elnaugh already has an idea for a new venture, but she's not divulging details. She wants to be the owner and she wants it to have assets, preferably including the freehold of its premises, and she doesn't want to be offering a leisure experience rather than broker someone else's."Red Letter Days had a weak balance sheet because its main asset was its brand, which you couldn't value," she says. She wants an outsourced model with a small core team. She wants to stay focused."It's been frustrating, turning down the things that people have offered me since Red Letter Days, but I want to do this thing properly," she says.So, no pulling back, no time for family - in fact no time for Rachel? She shrugs. "This is me," she says. "It's what I do."
It will soon be possible with new technology to make an archive of your entire life. In fact we are very close to it now as I learned from a recent experiment. I have been testing an Olympus WS-200S digital voice recorder (RRP &pound;89.99) by itself and in conjunction with a camera for blogging purposes (a Nikon Coolpix 7900 (7.1 megapixels, guide price &pound;240). The voice recorder is so slick in concept and so small - it fits noiselessly, and almost weightlessly, into a shirt pocket like an iPod shuffle - that it redefines what recorders can do. It is so light you soon forget it is there (and so do the people you are talking to).It claims 55 hours of recording in long-playing mode (less in stereo), with up to 13 hours on a single file, which is roughly the life of one battery. For testing purposes I started leaving it on for most of the day. When I got home I detached the memory module from the recorder, plugged it into the USB port of my computer before storing it on my hard disk and sending back-up audio files to my Gmail account through Windows Media Audio. Almost all my waking activities were recorded in two eight-hour files.Earlier in the month, on the day the Berliner Guardian was launched, I was assigned to report the day's events on a Guardian blog or online diary (http://blogs.guardian.co.uk/editors). This involved talking to journalists and others, writing text and taking photographs during a 14-hour stint. I left my recorder on for most of the day and sent the text of the blog followed by an audio file of the day's happenings to my Gmail account. By the end of the exercise it had used up less than 1% of the 2.6GB available in my Gmail box - and that included a lot of emails that were already there.In theory, you could leave your entire life in the custody of Mr Google, or on your hard disk, indexed by date and subject for easy recall. At the moment, Google searches emails in a confidential way in order to pitch relevant adverts to you. It hasn't got around to searching audio - yet. What would you do with all this data? It would be very useful for recollecting memorable moments. But if you wanted to retrace the whole of the first half of your life, it would take the second half to do it and, mostly, you would merely be listening to breathing and footsteps, as I found to my cost.The Olympus recorder (which I purchased after reviewing it in Online on July 14) did its job very well, but it was not without problems. As with the trial version, the battery slot of my own model often opened spontaneously, thereby aborting operations - until I put tape over it. It wouldn't fast-forward speedily and I couldn't record and play in some of the folders (the company told me it was a rogue unit). A replacement model biked over was much better but suffered from the same battery fault, though only occasionally. Olympus is about to launch even more powerful models with up to 277 hours of recording time. It might be prudent to buy from a local supplier so it can be exchanged if something goes wrong, rather than from a remote online supplier.The camera was a delight. For the blog I used it in low-resolution mode (capable of taking almost 1,000 photos). The reproduction was fine for web use though not a great deal better than ones I took with a Nokia 7710 cameraphone when the battery ran out (I didn't always switch it off between uses). But in high-resolution mode, taking a maximum of six pictures, the results were stunning, especially close-up photos of old documents. These could then be blown up, enabling the documents to be read in impressive detail. It would easily serve as a high-quality scanner.What I am not completely sure about in all this is the implications for intellectual property rights if you record your waking life, including any plays or concerts, that you attend, say, for your own use. But that's another story.Vic.Keegan@guardian.co.uk
BooksAnthropology volume uncovers error of our waysWhole forests of business books come out every month, but the one catching our eye this time around isn't strictly about business at all. Watching the English, by Kate Fox, is a popular anthropology volume, and eminently suitable as holiday reading if you're getting away during October. It tries to be objective in observing the way people from our nation behave, and although Fox is hampered occasionally by her own Englishness, she has a pretty good go.Of most interest to business readers is the section on business, naturally, although other parts are informative too; if you own a pub, for example, and are getting glared at by a group of foreign visitors who don't appear to be drinking anything, it's this book that explains they've probably been there for half an hour and don't know you have to come to the bar to get served. Once they've been served they also won't understand that you're offended when they try to tip you as they might in a bar back home.English protocol in business meetings also comes in for some scrutiny, particularly our reluctance to get down to business with any great haste. Fox quotes an American who, having sat down to what he thought was a meeting, had to wait through 10 minutes of chat about the weather and humourous comments about the transport and traffic systems that had conspired to keep people away (although as a foreigner he wasn't invited to join in with these pejorative comments), and when he asked whether they could just talk about sales they looked at him - he says - as if he'd just farted.The rest of the world doesn't behave like this and they don't understand it when we do. Fox also highlights our appalling habit of almost apologising when people ask us how much we will charge for a piece of work - except she doesn't use the word "almost".All told, an excellent book to buy for any international contacts you might have, and who you might want to have a fighting chance of understanding what's going on when you're apparently not working. Hodder, &pound;8.99.A book that's more seriously targeted at the business community is Robert Craven's Kick-Start Your Business, from Virgin Books, &pound;10.99. It's practical and encourages you to take a look at what's happening in your company from a distance.For example, in the section on listening to pub conversations on failing businesses, Craven points to rising overheads, inability to keep the staff, customer reluctance and many other factors and says they're nonsense - businesses keep themselves in or out of the market through managerial competence, he believes.The first half of the book is full of excellent tips like this and suggests a solid framework based on finance, marketing and operations to judge how your business is really running. It falters a little in the second part, at least for the small business manager, when it runs through a 100-day plan to put the ideas the first half will have inspired into action. Most small business managers are just pleased just to get through the next 100 hours.Mobile phonesO2's latest pocket PC packs a real punchBy now you'll be aware that Apple and Motorola have brought out a new phone for music lovers. It Bluetooths happily to your earpiece so you can use it while you're driving, but if you do a lot of business driving you probably won't care much about the music function anyway.More practical is the 02 XDA Exec, which 02 has quietly introduced for the business customer. You may already be familiar with the XDA, which essentially looks like (and is) a hand-held PC with a phone built in.The clever bit this time around - clever in the sense that the competition will be wondering why they didn't think of it first - is that it includes GPRS, as you'd expect, Wi-Fi, as is becoming standard on many computers, and 3G, so you can switch between whichever connection will work best and fastest depending on where you are.The computer bit will handle Excel, Word, and video conferencing - and for just about the first time instant messaging becomes a viable option thanks to the faster connection to the internet (of course, you could have had a go at this with a standard mobile phone connection but it really isn't a great idea).Oh, and it also has Windows Media Player, so it's fine if you insist on using it as a music phone too, as long as you buy the memory cards. It'll show you films too if you don't mind getting eye strain from a hand-held screen. The starting price for pay monthly customers is &pound;399.99.Online marketingHencam is feather in the cap for innovative farmEver considered doing something unusual to market your wares? The owners of the farm featured inwww.clarencecourt.co.uk/hencamhave done so by putting their hens on display to all who happen to be passing through electronically.The idea is that you can log on and see for yourself that these hens really are free range creatures without a care in the world, who'll happily wander around in their own space. Then, if you like what you see, you can buy their eggs at Harrods Food Hall.
Christine Cryne, chief executive of the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM), says small businesses can learn a lot from the marketing gaffes made by big companies that ought to have more sense"Marketing has been proven to make more difference to bottom line success than any other activity, but even larger companies often don't give marketing the attention it deserves," she says.One mistake is not taking marketing seriously enough. A survey carried out by the CIM revealed that just 12% had a marketer on their main board, while 72% had no marketing professionals on their main board or senior management team. Just 22% of CEOs had a marketing background - compared with 27% who came from operations and 40% whose area of expertise was finance.Here are some useful tips to help avoid making a mess of marketing:&#183;Do your homework&#183;Don't underestimate local competition&#183;Let others in to share your market if the alternative is to lose it&#183;Respond quickly to customer complaints&#183;Keep an eye on your critics&#183;Test the water - target one small region before launching a national service, or focus one type of customer before attempting to appeal to a wider base&#183;If you're ahead of your time and the market might not be ready for your product, think about PR first and focus on educating before selling&#183;Choose the right blend of promotional tools such as advertising, direct mail or telesales. If one technique does not work, try a different tactic&#183;Measure the results so that you know your marketing budget is being spent wisely&#183;If you employ a marketing professional make sure they are properly qualified&#183;If you can't afford to take on professional help, consider taking a part-time marketing courseFor more practical advice, and details of marketing courses for small businesses, see the CIM website atwww.cim.co.uk/sme
When Chris Nelson set up his web company,mapsworldwide.com, in 1998, he quickly blew &pound;40,000 on marketing. To his dismay, it had no impact on his business whatsoever, despite what he'd considered to be careful planning.The idea behind the business was sound enough - to provide a web-based outlet for specialist maps, so that travellers and walkers didn't have to trek down to Stamford's in Covent Garden, London. With a background in PR, Nelson was confident that he knew the right marketing strategies to suit the customer base, and so embarked on some classic campaigns, designed to drive traffic to the new website.This was at the beginning of the dotcom era, when the web was seen as just another channel to market. "This suggested you needed to use traditional communications methods to drive traffic to a site," says Nelson. "So we thought about who our customers were - ie people who fly, sail, walk and travel - and visualised individuals that read publications such as The Great Outdoors and Living France. If we could target these people through focused advertising and writing to them via mailing lists, we were confident they would instantly see the value of our proposition and visit our website."Forty thousand pounds later and the company had nothing to show for its marketing spend. Nelson had placed ads across a range of appropriate magazines, offered reader deals and sponsored content, but the web traffic didn't come. "It was a complete and utter failure," he says. "And yet all the publishers' sales information confirmed that the demographics were right."So what had gone wrong? "We hadn't thought about our audience enough," Nelson admits. "We had assumed our audience would use the web - they'd see the adverts and come to our site, but they didn't. If we'd been a shop selling maps, this approach would have worked. It turned out that the web - which we'd seen as a channel to market - was the market."So Nelson turned his strategy on its head, and began to use web-based marketing, targeted at internet users who also happened to have a love of walking, flying and travel.The difference was staggering. "Once we focused on online advertising and search engine marketing, we saw real results," he says. Whereas, in the first years, the company turned over less than &pound;100,000 a year, today it boasts annual sales of half a million pounds and has 100,000 customers in 270 countries. The business has also been profitable for the last four years.And the company's total budget for traditional marketing? Zero. Nelson attributes the company's enduring prosperity to having found the right means of reaching new customers, which it now does with an annual online marketing budget of &pound;12,000.The lesson from the experience, Nelson says, is to think carefully about the customers of a new business - "that's think, not even plan," he emphasises - and not to make any assumptions.Educating the publicBob Ward, the founder and MD of web-based businessglassesonspec.co.uk, launched earlier this year, went through a similar learning curve that also left him out of pocket.Ward, whose background is in IT, identified a niche for supplying cheap prescription spectacles over the internet, undercutting the inflated prices found on the high street. Discovering that it costs independent optical laboratories just &pound;9 to turn out a complete pair of glasses, Ward lost no time in contacting potential partners to help him get his business off the ground. Just four out of the possible 80-90 labs he approached were willing to meet him; the others were too concerned about jeopardising their contracts with the high street opticians.Funded with his own resources, and with a lab ready to supply the glasses, Ward launched the business in April, just four months after having the idea. The next stage was to market the company.Ward's controversial proposition lent itself to some great PR, which secured him coverage in local newspapers and on radio stations. Ward wanted people to know (many didn't) that they were legally entitled to walk away from an optician with a prescription that could be fulfilled by any outlet of their choice; that they weren't beholden to the company that performed the eye test.The best way of spending his limited marketing budget, then, seemed to be to get his message out as broadly as possible, educating the public about their options, then hitting them with the punch line: just how much he could save them (50-70% on the same pair of glasses).Ward invested &pound;9,500 on a run of 10 radio ads and a further &pound;4,000 on advertising in consumer magazines. Yet, where the PR had generated awareness, and the advertising had added to this, this wasn't translating into hits on the website."As a new business, I just assumed I needed to advertise, but I wouldn't do it again," Ward says. "I had a finite marketing budget and should have spent it more wisely. With radio, you need to hear an ad four or five times before you'll get a pen ready to write down the details. A run of 10 ads wasn't enough to get across the message and get people to the site."If he had the budget back, he'd spend it with Google, he says. "I'd go for the best bang for my buck, and the fastest. I believe search engine marketing is the most targeted advertising possible if your business is very specific, because you're paying only to be seen by someone who is interested in what you're selling. Anything else is like distributing leaflets outside Tesco."Pitfalls of outsourcingOf course, not every lesson in marketing is web-based. Even today, many thousands of UK businesses rely very little on the internet for their sales - if they have websites at all.One such company is 7 Wives Natural Bodycare, based in Penzance, Cornwall. It produces natural soap and sells a wide range of "non-compromised" skincare and beauty products, made from natural oils from around the world. The business has been going nearly seven years, during which time it has made and sold 20 tonnes of soap. Like Ward of glassesonspec, founder Rick Kilminster is an entrepreneur first, and a marketer second.7 Wives sells its products primarily to independent retailers using telemarketing, though it also has a mail order-based direct sales business, and a web presence (atwww.sevenwives.co.uk). The company has seven staff, and turns over just &pound;250,000 a year.Having a modest budget, Kilminster felt telemarketing was the most cost-effective way of spreading the word about the company to potential resellers. Because the workforce was so small, he outsourced the activity to an external specialist.This proved a costly mistake. "The agency claimed to have just the database we needed but after a year we'd had very little response, yet had received bills totalling &pound;20,000," Kilminster says. "It became clear that we were just another customer on their books that they could bill every month."7 Wives learnt the hard way that, in its niche business-to-business environment, dealing with customers was something that had to be managed internally, by people with a genuine passion for the products. Now the company has added two staff who divide their time between the phone, attending trade shows and meeting customers.Kilminster is now shy of taking advice from so-called marketing experts. "My advice to anyone else would be trust your gut instinct, and don't be led down blind alleys by so-called experts," he concludes. "While a marketing agency might be experienced in one particular area, they may not know what's right for your business."
It's the end of an era at Microsoft, and perhaps the start of a new one. Last week, the 30-year-old company announced its reorganisation into three divisions, with the aim of getting things to market quicker. It also announced that 53-year-old Jim Allchin, who has driven the Windows platform group for the past decade, was going to retire after shipping the long-delayed Windows Vista.We have to hope Allchin has got his re-architecting of Windows Vista right, because it may never happen again: he is being replaced by a marketing man, Kevin Johnson. The company that used to be run by programmers for programmers (Gates/Allchin) is now being run by salesmen (Ballmer/Johnson).Microsoft has done well for itself in the Allchin era. Turnover has grown from $5.9bn in 1995 (when Microsoft was roughly half the size of Apple) to $40bn today. But according to a recent article in Forbes magazine, the company is now facing a midlife crisis: it is musclebound and mired in bureaucracy. Perhaps worse, it is overrun with lawyers, who have to approve almost everything it does.Certainly Microsoft's growth has slowed dramatically. But it now needs to bring in an extra $4bn a year just to grow at a historically low 10% - and $4bn is roughly a Yahoo or a Google.However, it is now preparing to crank the Windows upgrade cycle once again, to try to give half a billion people the incentive to buy new copies of Windows and Office, as it did in 1995 and 2000-01. Mainly, this involves getting developers enthused about creating new software for the new systems.Many of the tools and platforms were unveiled at this month's Microsoft Professional Developers Conference in Los Angeles (http://msdn.microsoft.com/events/pdc). These included the Windows Presentation Foundation (formerly codenamed Avalon), Windows Workflow Foundation, the Expression family of design tools (Microsoft bought Hong Kong-based Creature House, which created Expression, two years ago), Language Integrated Query (LINQ, seehttp://msdn.microsoft.com/netframework/ future/linq), Atlas, and lots of RSS syndicated feeds. All told, PDC developers were given an amazing 30GB of code to take away.The Expression family includes Acrylic Graphic Designer, for designing Visa and Office applications, Sparkle Interactive Designer, for creating "rich, cinematic user interfaces," and Quartz Web Designer, for creating websites. All support XAML, Microsoft's Extensible Application Mark-up Language. LINQ enables programmers to access information from inside programming languages without learning SQL or XML, while Atlas provides a framework for creating asynchronous JavaScript applications (usually called Ajaxing).Most of these programs duplicate the functions of products that are already on the market, so there has been some talk about whether, for example, Sparkle is a "Macromedia Flash killer". This misses the point. People who have spent years developing expertise in Flash, PhotoShop and similar programs are not going to give them up.However, most people - and most companies - don't have that sort of expertise. They are the market for creative tools that work with their non-creative tools in a reasonably integrated fashion. It's the IT equivalent of a packaged holiday.This time, it's not just about selling Windows. Instead, it's about selling Windows and Office, a new task-based 3-D "user experience", the design software and programming tools used to create it, and the array of server programs needed to support functions that ultimately extend from the Windows desktop to the web to other devices, such as mobile phones.If it works, it should give Microsoft's sales a major boost. Then again, we may all stick with Windows 2000 or XP - or switch to Linux. You decide.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Tesco's broadband policy falls shortI have just tried to move my broadband service from Tesco.net to a new provider. To my dismay, I discovered that Tesco does not comply with the voluntary internet migration standard and will provide no migration authorisation code. The only way to change is to cut off my broadband service, then reinstate it with another ISP. Instead of an instant changeover, I must go back into the BT queue and wait for at least two weeks for restoration of my broadband service. That stinks. As the migration standard is voluntary, Tesco isn't breaking any laws, but this policy is not explained when you register for the service.Michael LengsfieldNorwichVoicing complaintRichard Wray's article, (Talk is cheap, September 15) aims to guide us "through all the options" to help us make the right choice in the field of Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) and yet he makes no mention of the many SIP-based services which that are free to register with. He fails to mention the distinction between services based on Jabber and other instant messenging standards that are inherently software based, and those based on SIP (Session Inititated Protocol) that are more hardware-orientated.With an IP phone, or standard phone connected to a VoIP-enabled router (or a VoIP adaptor connected to an existing router), one can sign up to a SIP service such as Sipgate (www.sipgate.co.uk) which will assign a local number with an area code of your choosing and has rates for connecting to landlines and mobiles throughout the world that are comparable to Skype, and start using the service whether a PC is active or not.Just because SIP servers have been around for some time and are not hyped in the media doesn't mean they should not be covered in articles that purport to explain the technology to the masses, many of whom have no knowledge of the subject. It is a particularly serious omission as SIP services are based on open standards, are prevalent around the world, offer a cheap or even "free" service and a truly alternative service to the public telephone network.Neil VeitchNorthumberlandBring back nuts and boltsI can't join the chorus of approval for the new Technology section; but my complaint refers to a tendency that was well-developed long before the Guardian's format change. There is more about mobile phones and videogames and less about the vital nuts and bolts of computing. A phone is a phone is a phone - what more is there to say? Adults' widespread interest in videogames is evidence of an infantile disorder.Douglas RomeSummerhillBlogbackPlaceOpedia (which I spotted at your Technology blog) is a way of linking locations to Wikipedia, the open source encyclopedia. It combines a number of different trends: this is something that's rapidly moving out of the concept stage into deployment ... an idea whose time has come.mobhappy.typepad.com&#183;You might be a fanboy if you think the new Nintendo Revolution controller is going to be a success (Innovations, September 22). Honestly, I expected something incredibly different from the past few generations of controller design. Sony was almost daring Nintendo to do something after not changing anything between PlayStation 1 and PlayStation 2 controllers. I fully expect every Revolution gamer who uses this new controller to develop carpal tunnel problems within five years of using this. You read that right: every one.In all seriousness, though, it is an innovative design. We have not seen anything fresh since the dual analogue button controller, not that it was overly impressive to begin with. But proof of concept has yet to happen, so everyone fawning over this new controller design should prepare themselves.Seriously, you should never get too enamoured with controller design until you get to use it.livejournal.com/users/aquacrayfish
Devastating weather over the past few weeks may have caught America unaware, but not everybody was slow to respond. Just five days after Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf Coast, a group of dedicated programmers created the first website to offer help to the millions of people that would eventually be displaced after one of the most tumultuous months in America's history.As government relief agencies struggled to come to terms with America's worst natural disaster for 80 years, the response from the internet community was far more swift. As Katrina struck the US coastline, dozens of separate missing persons lists and message boards began appearing online. While most were useful, scanning them all for news of loved ones proved incredibly time consuming. What was needed was a single, comprehensive database of names. But who would provide such a thing?In the immediate wake of Katrina, it fell to members of the Wikipedia community to start building a definitive list, placing together all the names from the dozens of different sources and bringing them into a single place. Using a wiki, the group had compiled a list of 15,000 names of missing people within just 24 hours. A day later, and that number had doubled. Within a week, there was a single, searchable database of 91,000 missing persons online, built entirely by volunteers.Most contributors were simply ordinary people filling in data from home - just as if they were registering for a subscription or buying a holiday online. Most gave just a couple of hours of their time, and few would describe themselves as geeks. "Fancy tech skills are not necessary," said the Katrina People Finder wiki. "If you can copy data into a form, you're valuable here".These days as soon as we want to find somebody, we reach for is the internet. In times past, finding people was a matter of looking for them in the telephone directory or tracing them through the electoral register. But in the age of mass communication, it can actually be trickier to keep tabs on each other than ever before. Email accounts go dead, and mobile numbers change. We move house - and move country - more often than we used to. We are more connected now, but those connections are more fragile and far less formal. There is no central database of email addresses or mobile phone numbers to turn to when things go wrong - and little sign that there is demand, either. 
 
Perhaps this is why one of the internet's main obsessions has become finding people. You could say that reunion sites such as Friends Reunited started the ball rolling. Even Salam Pax, the famous Baghdad Blogger, began his eloquent outpourings as a search for his missing friend, Raed. But after a natural disaster like the Asian tsunami or the devastation wreaked by the recent hurricanes in America, searching for people takes on vital meaning.As the internet becomes the first port of call for finding people, we need to ask ourselves how useful is it? Does the internet make it easier to find people or hinder them? Do well-meaning projects like the Katrina People Finder assist the official rescue... or do they just manage to get in the way?"We believe the heaviest use of these sites is still to come, as power is restored and evacuees get access to computers," admits Zack Rosen, one of Project Katrina's chief coordinators. "A central repository of data means long delays are avoided, as people can search in just one spot."Organisations like the Red Cross inquired after the project's data, and the organisers say it helped on three fronts: "to add enquiries about lost relatives", to "post information about people known to be safe and sound" and assisting the "search for relatives".But not everyone is sure that missing persons' data should be handled by amateurs."We are cautious about putting details on the web," says Sophie Woodforde of the National Missing Persons Helpline. "Once you do this, you can lose control of the information. For example, we have found pictures taken from our site and displayed on other, totally inappropriate sites. This can be very upsetting."
 
The charity registers about 200 cases each month via the net, a small fraction of its real case load. In fact, when it comes to disasters, it is retreating from using the internet as a source of data on the missing. During the recent London bombings, the police asked the charity not to upload missing person data to its website."This was to make sure there was no duplication of lists, as occurred after the tsunami", says Woodforde. "The police were anxious to minimise the impact of the bombings on the community, and were concerned about random lists of missing persons appearing on the net."Only time will tell if valiant and imaginative efforts like the Katrina People Finder ever made a real difference. But it could prove a small milestone in internet history. "One of things that I realised during the tsunami," says Kline, "is that with a little bit of time and information, I can make a difference."
I met my saviour in Marylebone. It wasn't a shock. Like many of the 300 people at David Allen's "Getting Things Done, The RoadMap" seminar at London's Landmark Hotel earlier this month, I was already a convert to his personal productivity system. I've read the book, made the lists, and lived with an empty inbox for six months now. For me, as with the hundreds of thousands around the world who press the book into their friends' hands with fire in their eyes, Allen's ideas are nothing short of life-changing. Getting Things Done - GTD to us converts - is as close to a cult as a to-do list can get.But Allen isn't your usual prophet. A dapper, friendly man in his late 50s, he's closer to a favourite professor than the usual big-teethed stadium-rocking personal development guru. Allen doesn't talk elusive nonsense about self-esteem, crossing chasms or searching for excellence, and there's no chest-beating, walking on hot coals, or team-building exercises. Rather, we attendees have paid $595 each to learn how, with a simple system of lists, folders and a labelling machine, we can get more stuff done.In an ever busier world of constant communication and reinvention, Allen's low key approach is increasingly popular. "Every one of you probably has mission critical stuff you could be doing today," Allen says, as the audience settles down and tries to hide their email-checking Blackberries under the desks. We are all too busy and we all need a salvation - and Allen, after two decades of personal coaching and management consultancy, thinks he has the answer. The world is starting to agree.His books - Getting Things Done and Ready For Anything - are international bestsellers, his company provides one-on-one coaching for senior executives worldwide, and his seminars are sold out across the globe. Customers from Goldman Sachs to the US Airforce put their senior colleagues through the training, with some firms having it as a pre-requisite for further advancement.GTD, when Googled, gives over two million hits. There are online forums for every aspect of the system: from Palm users reviewing software, to tips on the best sort of ball-point pen to make your to-do lists with. In certain circles, the GTD system is an obsession in itself, the system pored over, debated, and optimised to the final degree.Which is all somewhat strange and pleasing for the man from Shreveport, Louisiana, whose personal journey to the GTD technique began when, aged five, he learnt some magic tricks. From then on, Allen says, he was fascinated by "how the invisible affects the visible". Moving to California in the late 60s, attending, and then dropping out of, the University of California at Berkeley at the height of the hippie era, Allen spent the next decade looking for meaning. "I was studying people who had enlightenment and wanted my own," he says.But while many people sort "truth" through a "rice bowl and cave, I preferred women and chardonnay". A preference that led to wandering through odd jobs and careers in everything from landscape gardening to martial arts, learning lessons that would later serve him well. Allen is a black belt in karate, and some of the key GTD concepts are a sort of Zen-lite derived from his teaching the discipline.Things in their wrong placeBy the time he was 35, Allen's portfolio of careers, combined with his increasing fascination with the personal growth movements of the 70s, suggested only one career: management consultancy. Allen synthesised his own thinking with those of his mentors and colleagues, and with a two-day workshop in 1983 to 1,000 employees at the American aerospace firm Lockheed, launched the Getting Things Done concept.The problem we all face, says Allen, is of things in their wrong place. There's always too much to be done and never enough time to do it in. The stress we feel isn't because we're overwhelmed with tasks, but with "stuff". That amorphous mess of "Anything you have allowed into your psychological or physical world that doesn't belong where it is, but for which you haven't yet determined the desired outcome and the next action step."This collection of uncompleted actions and stray stuff - open loops in the GTD lingo - does nothing, according to Allen, but create stress and block thinking. It rattles around in our heads and gets in the way. As we run from fire to fire, email to voicemail, meeting to meeting, modern life seems to be nothing but a fight against the rising tide of distracting stuff. We're too busy trying to stay on top of what we have to do, that we don't get to do any of it. Too worried about remembering that our brains are too tired to be creative or relax. It's a vicious circle: the more things to do, the slower we're able to do them, and the more they pile up. Sound familiar?The answer, Allen points out with forehead-slapping clarity, is to get all of this stuff out of our head and into a trusted system. Once you've written down everything you need to do, and have a system that you know you can trust to contain every necessary task, the freshly GTDed mind will be free to actually get the stuff done. "The truth is, it takes more energy to keep something inside your head than outside," says Allen.Getting everything you need to do down on paper is called a Mind Sweep. It can be both traumatic and oddly liberating. The recommended technique involves going through your entire house, office, car and anywhere else in your life, and gathering together all of the objects and papers that need something doing to them. First time GTDers find that this can take one or two days, and produce lists stretching to hundreds of items. But that's the point, according to Allen. The brain can't tell the difference between an unimportant task it once set itself, and something urgent that's just popped up. At some level, all of that stuff is dragging you down. Only by collecting it together, and processing it by working out what it is, and what you're going to do about it, can we get the stuff out of our head. We all have a psychological drive to complete thingsOnce you know what you're going to do with something, the technique is simple: if it will take less than two minutes, you do it straight away. If not, you add it to a to-do list by writing the very next physical action you will need to do to move the situation forward.According to Allen, it's only by thinking of the next physical action that we can truly get something out of our heads.But more than that, Allen points out, the next physical action is the only thing we can do. No matter what the project is, and a project is really anything that takes more than one step to complete, from Christmas shopping to putting a man on the moon, it's not the project that gets completed."The common complaint that 'I don't have to time to' is understandable because many projects seem overwhelming - and are overwhelming - because you can't do projects at all," Allen says. "You can only do an action related to it. Many actions require only a minute or two, in the appropriate context, to move a project forward."But faced with a to-do list of inordinate length, how do we work out what to do? Allen suggests we don't try to order our lists by priority. Instead, he says, we should make different lists for different contexts. A list for when we're at home, one for the computer, one for when we're out shopping, and so on. Given a few minutes between meetings, and a free telephone, you can get something done if you have your by-the-telephone to-do list to hand. Your next actions, sorted by context, are all you need to move all of your projects along.It all seems very simple. And in many ways, it is. But like all the best systems, GTD's simplicity hides a considerable amount of sophistication. What looks like a mundane system of lists and calendars actually ties together to make something far more powerful.It creates, says Allen, a whole new psychology: "'What does this mean to me?', 'What do I want to do about it?', and 'What's the next step required to make that happen?'. These are the cornerstone questions we must answer, at some point, about everything," says Allen.Feelings of empowermentSo deep does the psychology go, that people have walked out of their jobs because of their new habits and feelings of empowerment. Many actively avoid working with people who don't have the same training. Mention doing business with someone without the GTD training to Allen, and he shudders in his chair, "you tend to notice when people aren't writing things down," he says.Allen explains the popularity of his technique as the first one to give a coherent model for everything you have to do in your life.Geeks, for example, love it, because it's a system, a framework that anything can be hung from. This universal usefulness is stretching out of the business world, too: the books are popular with at-home parents and students. Doctors treating patients with attention deficit disorder have found the mind-sweeping and list-making technique offers relief by ridding the mind of distractions. GTD, it seems, might well be the next big idea whose time has come. After all, as Allen says: "You're born an open loop; we're all on the planet to finish something."
Donating your old PC to the needy is noble, but is it appropriate? A computer designed to work in a London office may not be appropriate for an Indian village. Intel is working on a computer that targets developing countries. "The single most important thing for these countries seems to be sharing," says Eric Brewer, lab director at Intel Research Berkeley, which has been using ethnographers to study the needs of communities in developing regions.The Community PC ships early next year and will include features designed to accommodate social and environmental conditions in places such as rural India. Many people use a single machine at a kiosk, paying to access the net in the same way they pay to share a mobile.The more people that use a machine, the more likely it is to be felled by viruses or misconfigured options. So Intel included a one-button recovery system to rebuild the software image should the software fail, explains Bill Siu, vice president and general manager for Intel's Channel Platforms Group."In India, especially in summer, it is hot, humid and dusty," he says. Conventional PCs can grind to a halt in such conditions. "A filter allows air intake to be dust-free, and also keeps out insects."Unreliable electricity in rural India is another barrier - "dirty" power can fluctuate and outages last hours. Intel therefore included a DC adaptor, so the PC can be powered from a car battery.Intel wants to lower the cost of PCs for developing communities by altering basic design. The bulk of a computer's cost is the batteries, packaging, and discrete components on the motherboard, says Siu. "We need to put more of the motherboard on to the chip."Intel is not the first company to tailor computers for emerging markets. Rival manufacturer AMD launched the Personal Internet Communicator last year as part of its goal to get half the world's population wired within 10 years. The Windows CE-based system targets developing markets in Mexico, India and the Caribbean.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
One to carryWhat are the advantages and disadvantages of portable computers?AI DeedJack Schofield replies:Portable computers generally take up less space than desktop systems. They are not suitable for full-time use, but are great if you want to spend an hour surfing the web, then slide them under the sofa, or put them in a drawer.The disadvantages are, however, many. Portables usually have a lower specification than desktop computers, and run slower, but cost more. They are also harder to expand, and more expensive to repair. Some may be less reliable, due to overheating problems. They are certainly less ergonomic, and spending too much time hunched over a notebook is bad for your neck and spine.At the extremes, a desktop tower has plenty of room for large, cheap, generic drives, graphics cards and suchlike. A portable designer usually has to choose smaller, more expensive components that use less power, and fit the case. And while a desktop PC could have a &pound;10 power supply and a &pound;100 monitor, a portable might use a sophisticated &pound;200 battery and a &pound;400 LCD screen.Over the past five years, however, the price gap has narrowed dramatically. The price of notebook PC parts has come down as sales have gone up, and prices are more comparable now that most desktop PCs are sold with flat-panel LCD screens.We have also seen the arrival of so-called "desktop replacement" portables - some even use desktop PC parts. These machines tend to be big and heavy, and have large bright screens. They don't last long on batteries, but that doesn't matter, as they are usually plugged into the mains. Rather than being designed for executives to use on planes, desktop replacements are aimed at home users, students and anyone else who wants a PC that doesn't take up so much space.Most portable computer suppliers offer a wide range of designs from slim but expensive ultraportables to hulking but cheap desktop replacement machines. It's just a question of finding the balance of portability, power and price that meets your needs.Help with ItalianI try to read Italian newspapers online. Is there software that will produce on-the-go translations for highlighted words?John PorterJS:WordReference offers free online translation dictionaries for Italian, French and Spanish atwww.wordreference.com. It also offers a toolbar that lets you look up words from your browser, but the results appear in a separate window. The AltaVista toolbar's Translate button lets you translate words typed into the searchbox, text selected on a web page, or pages, but again, takes you to the Babelfish site. What you really want is a toolbar like Google's, which translates words when you hover the mouse over them. Unfortunately, the Google Toolbar only translates from English to other languages, not from (say) Italian into English.Mailings blockedWanadoo (formerly Freeserve) has decided to block emails to the 200 addresses of my tennis club members. It thinks it's spam if there are more than 12 recipients! All they have suggested is to split them into groups of 10.Dave CooperJSMany ISPs are blocking mass mailings, though it doesn't seem to have reduced the amount of spam around. I'd suggest switching to a mailing list distributor such as Topica (http://lists.topica.com) or Coollist (www.coollist.com). All your members will have to sign up in order to receive your emails, and will be able to unsubscribe.GoogleviewCan Google Talk be used with a webcam to see as well as chat to friends and family?Ray DevaneyJSNot yet! However, video chat is a common addition to instant messaging programs, and Google can be expected to introduce it sooner or later. As a Windows user, you could try the new MSN Messenger 7.5 (http://messenger.msn.com), which seems to do good full-screen video. There are also lots of third party options, such as SightSpeed (www.sightspeed.com) and "eye speak" or iSpQ (www.ispq.com).DAB comboI suppose I have to accept the current obsession with the mobile (Ask Jack, September 15), but a DAB radio tuner on an MP3 player - that would be something.John PalmerJSA reader asked about this last year, and I suggested the Perstel DR201, which wasn't available. Now there's also the DR301, which supports MP2 (ie DAB), MP3 and WMA. Seewww.perstel.co.uk/productsnew.html#dr301.Backchat&#183;Philip Millard criticises me for repeating "the hoary old myth that 'email is like sending a postcard - anyone can read it en route'. You yourself seem to accept that this can happen only with a dishonest employee - not 'anyone'." He adds: "Sending credit card details by email is NOT risky or insecure in the sense that unauthorised persons can intercept them. The reality is that you are 100 times more likely to have your card misused after visiting a restaurant (where your card is taken away to be processed) than after an internet purchase."
Julie Dean of Rotherham, South Yorkshire, made a piece of e-history last month when she called in at her council to apply for housing benefit. Instead of filling in the usual 25-page paper form, she sat in front of a screen and, with the help of an adviser, answered a short set of questions targeted at her personal circumstances.After signing the application electronically, it was automatically routed to the council's computers. At the same time, the system checked whether Dean was eligible for 60 other state benefits.Dean was the first person to try out an e-benefits system developed as part of the e-government programme. The process took one third of the time usually needed to assess a claimant. The program's designers say it will soon be available for people wanting to claim benefits over the web from home.Until now, benefit claims have been a tardy runner in the e-government race. While in theory 80% of public services are available online (96% will be by December 31), the most developed e-services tend to be those that collect money rather than hand it back. Every council has some facility for paying council tax electronically from your home. Not one allows you to claim council tax benefit online.There are reasons for these priorities. Claiming benefits demands higher levels of security than paying bills. Councils don't check the identities of people paying parking tickets - if someone starts impersonating offenders, no one is likely to complain. Also, benefits claimants come from sections of society least likely to use computers. Most efforts to promote e-government have been aimed at young professionals.Priorities are now changing as the final 25% of government services go online. It is already possible to apply online for tax credits at the Inland Revenue's website. Other benefits are due to follow once government has established ways of authenticating citizens' identities electronically.The driving force behind e-benefits, however, is efficiency. According to Mark Evans of Rotherham metropolitan borough council, 61 separate benefits are available from the state. Some are administered by central government, some by local councils, and each has its own rules and procedures. E-enablement offers a way to simplify the appearance of the system without grappling with difficult reform.The system piloted at Rotherham was developed by a group of councils and IT firms funded with &pound;7m from central government. The national e-benefits project aimed to develop a software that could be used to check whether a citizen is eligible for any government benefit and to feed applications electronically into back office systems.So far, the system processes only applications for council tax benefit and housing benefit - administered by local authorities - and just checks eligibility for others. However, even this is a major time-saver, says Evans. "A typical interview process without the system would take 60-90 minutes," says Evans. The first e-enabled assessment took 21 minutes.Because of the need to check identities and to sign documents, claimants still have to come into the council's customer service centre. There, they sit in front of a swivel screen so they can follow the process as an adviser leads them through. Once completed, the electronic forms are signed with a digital pen.The system's first user learned that she may be entitled to child benefit, child tax credit, working tax credit, free dental treatment and dentures, fares to hospital, sight tests and glasses. Dean's verdict: "Much easier than the old forms."Local authorities are equally keen, says Evans. More than 50 authorities say they want to try the software. Evans says that claiming online at home "will be reality pretty soon".Another local authority initiative called Government Connect will take care of authentication by providing citizens with a unique login. "There may still be a need for a final verification of documents, but there is no reason why the majority of the application could not be completed on a self-service basis."For now, the question is what will happen to the software developed under the project when funding runs out. Rotherham and its partners are negotiating terms for taking ownership. How this will work in practice is unresolved: "Rotherham council isn't a software house," Evans admits.&#183;Tax credits application:www.taxcredits.inlandrevenue.gov.uk/HomeIR.aspx&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Free! Want a new TV? Get one Free! Listen to the radio? Get it Free! If everything is free how come my credit card keeps registering purchases? When was the last time anyone got anything free without having to pay through the nose?I joined the wireless revolution. BT is giving away the first month "free". Everyone's doing it. So how come I'm in a dirty pub getting intermittent and weak internet access with some chav across the room staring at me, waiting for me to go to the toilet so he can pinch my laptop. But the best thing is I'm paying &pound;6 an hour for the pleasure.At home I have a fast internet connection for &pound;20 a month. At &pound;6 an hour, the wireless revolution is coming in at roughly &pound;4,500 a month. And there are no plans to lower the pricer because demand isn't big enough. That &pound;20 a month is a rip-off anyway, thanks to BT living in the 1980s.Sign up to this 18-month mobile phone contract. Free! Pay 50p a minute (that's ooh, something like &pound;22,000 a month). Free! Pay 10p to send 100 SMS letters, including spaces (roughly &pound;12,000 per book, by my calculations), and we will give you this Free! phone. Vodafone pays billions to be "allowed" to sell more phones on faster networks. Billions in profit every year, executives walk away in one year with the lifetime wages of several people - but we get our Free! phone.Take a picture with the crappy camera on your Free! phone and pay 20p to send it on so a friend can stare at it on their Free! mobile trying to figure out what it is.Why is everyone taking bad pictures of everything? Because of a multibillion pound campaign by mobile phone companies looking for ways to make yet more money by "telling us" we love taking poor-quality pictures of nothing.It's a miracle we have only just discovered how life-enhancing these pieces of blurred shite are. Mobile phone companies spend billions trying to persuade of us of the wonderful benefits of photography. And the best thing is it's all free.Get a Free! iPod with your crisps, your chewing gum. Get a Free! iPod with every &pound;200 you spend on one. Join the revolution by spending money? The iPod'll store your entire music collection. We all love music, so listen to more. Just don't share it. Because then we'll have to send round the &pound;200-an-hour lawyers to take away everything you own.Don't use those CDs, buy "new" music and in this format, so that in five years, we can stop supporting it and you can buy the same music all over again.What made you think music was eternal? Do you think music is made by people playing instruments and singing? Music is created by us. For profit. Try our free download today and find out for yourself. Absolutely free.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
From the "it's everywhere on the web" department - shockwaves rippled though blogging community as it's proved that People Just Aren't That Interested.HelloReuters:A survey of British taxi drivers, pub landlords and hairdressers -- often seen as barometers of popular trends -- found that nearly 90 percent had no idea what a podcast is and more than 70 percent had never heard of blogging."When I asked the panel whether people were talking about blogging, they thought I meant dogging," said Sarah Carter, the planning director at ad firm DDB London.Dogging is the phenomenon of watching couples have sex in semi-secluded places such as out-of-town car parks. News of such events are often spread on Web sites or by using mobile phone text messages.No wonder I get strange looks in the office when I tell everyone I'm off to do some blogging.
Is there a feeling worse in the world than coming out of the cinema, theatre or restaurant, going to the railings where you locked up your bike - and finding nothing there?Having one's bike nicked may seem trivial next to all the death, war, famine and pestilence in the world, but believe me, if it's your bike, then it looms pretty large. A bicycle, after all, is never just a bicycle. A friend and companion, yes, but in a way something more intimate. A bicycle expresses your personality, it becomes both a physical extension and an emotional part of you. Lose your bike and you lose a precious piece of yourself.As the late Elizabeth K&uuml;bler-Ross might have put it, there are three stages of grief in a bike-theft bereavement. First, the heart-in-mouth double-take of bewilderment (shock), swiftly turning through anguished disbelief (denial) to, finally, a sick-to-the-stomach mortification (anger and acceptance).People who have been burgled often speak of a feeling of violation. To have a bicycle stolen is to experience a similar sense of affront, beyond the merely material loss. What makes a bike theft creepier still is that the thief removes not only the bike but almost always the broken lock too. Obviously, there is a rational explanation for disposing of the criminal evidence, but it has the effect of seeming to deny that there ever was a bike there that belonged to you. That is a peculiar annihilation.Of course, there are people out there for whom a bike is, in fact, just a bike and no more. For them, I assume, the theft of their bicycle is treated as an inconvenience resulting in the filing of an insurance claim. A replacement bike is then supplied and - because a new bike is by far the most desirable to thieves - very often soon stolen again. Insurance premiums rise, the bike trade profits, and so the world goes.But how sad and soulless to live without that attachment to your bicycle - better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all. But best of all to have a nice old bike that no one would bother to nick in the first place.
It must be tough working in next-generation media at the moment. Just when you thought it was safe to assume that Sony's Blu-Ray DVD format was looking strong,Intel and Microsofthave put their backing behind Toshiba's competing HD DVD standard.Toshiba, of course, is rubbing its hands with glee over this backing: "We are confident that Intel and Microsoft's endorsement of HD DVD... will add to the momentum of support that is powering acceptance of HD DVD as the format of choice for next generation HD applications," they said in astatement. No wonder it had been written off before now - (here's an example"HD DVD looks doomed" headline).Why this backing, and why now? Well for Microsoft, it means that they aren't forced into backing a Sony format, which be politically useful for their console business (Sony's PlayStation 3 will include Blu-Ray support). And for Intel, it just means that - well - they'll get their chips in something.But this change may make life more difficult for some of Blu-Ray's other supporters, too. Apple? Well, they're not fans of Microsoft, but they're switching to Intel chips for their computers. And Windows PC makers like Dell and HP could potentially see an Intel compatible high-definition solution as a more interesting (and cheaper) prospect than the more-expensive Sony option.Has the pendulum swung back in favour of HD DVD, or not?
"I managed to get my hands on Apple iTunes for Windows Mobile 5.0. After the Motorola ROKR Apple seems to get seriously into the mobile phone business. As my sources tell there will be a special data rate for T-Mobile bundled with devices that come with iTunes (maybe we'll see an official announcement soon)," writesSchrankmonster."The version I could test was iTunes for Windows Mobile 5.0 version 0.9. Although it looks pretty complete (everything (except bonjour) is in place and even podcast sync worked like a champ (see picture)) it's not a customer ready version. I don't know anything about the release dates or announcement dates at the moment."Comment:The pictures look authentic, so who knows? Of course, Windows Mobile phones can already play music and video clips via the built-in Windows Media Player, but current and would-be iTunes users will no doubt be glad to have the extra option.
