Web 4,187,573,5840.0: a desert, yesterday. Photograph: Eugene Hoshiko/APDiscover Magazine has afun articlewhich tackles one of those thought-up-in-the-pub questions we all think of from time to time: how much does the internetweigh?Most of us know that computers represent all types of information... as streams of binary digits, 1s and 0s... They are embodied and manipulated as voltages in electronic circuits. Therefore, every bit of data must have some mass, albeit minuscule. This prompted DISCOVER to ask the question: How much would all the data sent through the Internet on an average day weigh?In searching for an answer, we scanned technical databases, tore through reference books, Googled like crazy, and checked with experts. It soon became apparent that if we wanted an answer, we were going to have to work it out for ourselves, as no one else appears to have tackled this question before. So we put our thinking caps on and set the coffee machine on extra strong.What's the answer? Well, it's perhaps no surprise that despite the fact that there are billions of pieces of digital information - so much that a year's outputwould fill 161bn iPods- a day's throughput weighs just 0.2 millionths of an ounce: the same as a tiny grain of sand.
The use of censorware by repressive governments is now becoming a legitimate policy matter. Conferences are being held, proposals are being made, press articles are being written. And people want to know: how can we make a difference in the fight against world censorship?Unfortunately, I don't have a good answer. Non-governmental organisations, thinktanks, academic departments and so on all have their own hierarchies and barriers to entry.Many years ago, when the internet was much smaller, the corresponding reach of an individual aiming to be heard in it was much larger. But the integration of the internet into society at large necessarily meant individuals reverted to being as marginalised in terms of overall influence as they are in society at large. It's not that nobody at all had a voice, but that the standard institutional power structures asserted themselves.And blogs are no solution. Contrary to blog evangelism, blogging can sometimes even be detrimental in terms of building influence. That's counterintuitive, since the very rare person who achieves substantial influence via a blog is often widely touted as a success story.But the complementary outcome is not widely publicised - that is, all the people who are blogging their hearts out and never being heard beyond a tiny fan audience. At this point, a blog evangelist usually states that it's possible to be happy even with only a select group of devotees. But they typically don't want to grant that it's also quite reasonable to be unhappy at not getting beyond that level. Talking mainly among a small self-selected group can also lead to a very misleading impression of the reach of one's ideas. The problem is not the scare story of echo chambers breeding dangerous extremists. But when looking into a hall of mirrors, it's very easy to mistake all those reflections for a crowd of supporters. The result can be a large amount of wasted energy, with the only gainers being blog evangelists (roughtype.com).In the same way that one year of experience repeated 10 times is not necessarily the same as 10 years of experience, constantly preaching to the choir often doesn't advance one's goals much. A saturation point can be reached, and then the audience may become bored with all the retellings of a story they've heard so many times before.As one activistlamentedregarding a censorware controversy: "I think the real lesson here is that, despite all the hype, blogs have not solved the 'gatekeeper' problem. It's no longer true that a handful of media giants control what people get to find out about, but it's still true that an issue doesn't become an 'issue', and has a hard time entering the public consciousness, unless it gets noticed by one of the new 'gatekeepers of information'. People have been complaining about wrong blocks by SmartFilter for nine freaking years, and suddenly BoingBoing [boingboing.net, a very popular website] gets blocked and it's in the New York Times!"So getting ideas into the media pundit and policy system can be a much more difficult task than simply writing web pages and hoping that somebody, somewhere, reads them. Publicity opportunities such as conferences often serve as a clearing house between public intellectuals and journalists. But it's a very small number of people who get to play there, as working the conference circuit is essentially a job in itself.There's an inspirational quote attributed to Margaret Mead: "Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed citizens can change the world. Indeed, it's the only thing that ever has." But there are many groups trying to change the world, some in violent opposition to one another. They can't all succeed; it's a logical impossibility. Similarly, many groups are trying to determine the future shape of the internet; only a few will succeed.Perhaps it's inevitable that the status required to have a significant internet policy effect will keep rising. But the implications of having to quickly go "up or out" are unfortunate for those who want to change this world.&#183;sethf.com/infothought&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
"Apple embeds your account information in all songs sold on the store, not just DRM-free songs," saysArs Technica. "Previously it wasn't much of a big deal, since no one could imagine users sharing encrypted, DRMed content. But now that DRM-free music from Apple is on the loose, the hidden data is more significant since it could theoretically be used to trace shared tunes back to the original owner. It must also be kept in mind that this kind of information could be spoofed."The speculation is that Apple and/or the record labels might want to watch whether buyers share DRM-free music with close friends....TUAW's Erica Sadun explains how tofind your name in the fileusing the Unix grep command.
No one ever said that dating was easy. But when I signed up for MySpace and Facebook (and admit it, you have, too) I didn't realise that I was subscribing to a culture of uncertainty even more likely to induce a cold sweat than an unanswered text message.These social networking sites masquerade as the singleton's new playground. It's kind of like browsing Amazon, but with people. But it's a bit mad. If the woman sitting next to you on the bus asked you to be her new friend on the grounds that you were reading an article about a band she once listened to, you'd just feign deafness and swiftly move seats. In the world of MySpace, this sort of irrational networking is perfectly acceptable.What really causes all the trouble, though, are those boxes asking for your relationship status. Making a public declaration about whether you're attached or not seems like a pertinent idea - potential admirers don't have to rely on guesswork and you don't need to shoehorn blatant references to your partner or incredible agility into the conversation.So when I signed up to Facebook, I ticked the "single" box. The site promptly made an announcement. "Anne is now single," it declared, accompanied by a picture of a cracked pink heart. By the time had I noticed and deleted the story, three people had demanded to know who I am now single from.And just wait until you do start seeing someone. That's when the real madness unfolds. Because once you've set your profile to say that you're single, you can't just change it, oh no. So, if I were to meet someone new, at what point am I supposed to change my status so that it smugly reads "In A Relationship"? Are we meant to have a discussion about it, or should we simply keep spying on each other's pages for days until one of us cracks?To avoid this tricky situation, I could just remove my status from these websites altogether. But if I untick the box on Facebook and then forget to censor that ever-helpful news feed, it will announce that "Anne is no longer single", complete with timestamp, and I will log on to find 17 messages demanding details.If you're worried about offending your new love interest by staying single in the social networking world, but paranoid you'll freak them out by making the relationship claim too soon, there's only one option left. You have to delete your profile. Chances are this will make everyone think that you are dead. But you won't be able to see your partner's Facebook page any more, so how will you know whether they've got round to changing their status?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
This morning's Technology section has a short piece asking precisely that question - to which Microsoft doesn't have a clear answer.Basically,how many people are getting the Red Ring of Death?(You know, where the power button just shows red, and sticks there.) There is analleged cure- but read on: it might have a real, physical cause.According to figures put out by Microsoft, it's around the industry average of 3-5%, though of course as Microsoft has sold north of 10m consoles, that still works out to anywhere between 300,000 and 500,000 bust ones.But Tim Anderson suggests that the numbers might be significantly higher, pointing in particular to asurvey by Xbox360 Gamerwhich found some people who'd had up to 7 faulty consoles.Is that a lot? Are the numbers out of line with Microsoft's claim? This is probably an example of aWeibull distribution(much used, apparently, to model hardware failures). There's a page with some calculatorshere, but I've got to admit to not having the statistical chops to know what numbers to plug in. Statisticians, awake!One possible cause though if the failure rate is higher than the industry average could be thermal stress: the Xbox 360 gets very hot (hear those fans!) and that can lead to stresses on the solder of the chips, eventually leading that solder to crack. Precisely that problem lies behind the failure of Apple's iBook G4 - asshown by some fine Danish detective work(a phrase we don't use often enough).Microsoft did come back with a reply which we weren't able to use enough of in print, so we're glad to reprint more of it here:We can not provide specific figures, but can confirm there is not a single root cause or systemic issue with any of the Xbox 360 consoles. With such a complex consumer electronic product that contains more than 1700 different components and 500 million transistors, there are obviously many things that can malfunction at any given time. The vast majority of customers who own Xbox 360 consoles continue to have a terrific experience.Oh, won't anyone think of the transistors?
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Wednesday June 6 2007Panda is not famous for its Housecall malware-checking website, as we stated, in error, in the article below. Trend Micro runs the Housecall programme. Panda's product is called ActiveScan.Virtual World, Real TVThe Money Programme will tomorrow become the first BBC show broadcast in Second Life - at Rivers Run Red Cinema at 7pm, 8pm and 9pm.bbc.co.ukTell ParliamentThe Hansard Society site provides access to consultations hosted on behalf of Parliamentary select committees and All-Party Groups.tellparliament.netPort&eacute;g&eacute; mobile officeToshiba is to launch a Port&eacute;g&eacute; G900 business phone with a pullout keyboard and USB. It runs Windows Mobile 6 and has a fingerprint recognition sensor that doubles as a scrollwheel.toshiba-europe.comDAB for iPodRoberts Radio will in October launch a &pound;50 add-on that enables iPod owners to listen to DAB digital radio.frontier-silicon.comIndirect from DellFrom June 10, Dell is to experiment with selling Dimension E521 desktop PCs at US retail chain Wal-Mart.direct2dell.comCompany HousecallPanda, famous for its Housecall malware-checking website, has launched Malware Radar (with "collective intelligence") for business users.malwareradar.comStar Wars mashupsLucasfilm has redesigned its Star Wars site and added Make Your Own Star Wars Movie, with more than 300 clips.starwars.comBaby minderBiB software lets you dial in remotely to a 3G video phone.bibcom.co.uk
Bill Gates and Steve Jobs got on stage together for the first time in a decade at the Wall Street Journal'sD5 All Things Digitalconference in San Diego:Jobs: When Bill and I first entered the industry, we were the youngest guys in the room, and now we're the oldest. I tend to think of things in terms of either Dylan or Beatles songs. And there's that one line in that Beatles song, "You and I have memories longer than the road that stretches out ahead," and I think that's clearly true here."They share a few jokes, a couple of semi-awkward moments and reminisce a little... but there's nothing revelatory about their conversation, and the questions are a bit soft soap. But it's intriguing all the same.Jack adds:Engadgethas a blow-by-blow account, though it doesn't seem to include many, if any, blows. More of a love-in, really.One amusing quote: Bill says "First, I want to clarify, I'm NOTFake Steve Jobs." Nobody thought he was, of course, considering the beating Microsoft takes on that particular blog, but it's still funny. And it's always worth giving Fake Steve a plug.Another: What's the greatest misunderstanding about your relationship with each other? Steve: We've kept our marriage secret for over a decade.Ryan Block's conclusion:They're wrapping up... shall we recap? Steve, calculating, articulate, very guarded, playing his hand very close to the chest. Bill, very friendly, very open, surprisingly accessible. Both so clearly in love with what they do. These two guys are one in a million, and it's totally clear they've never respected anyone else quite like they respect each other.Update:All Things Digital, the conference site, has a better text.
I want to set up a webcam to watch birds nesting on the wall outside, and connect it to my PC's USB port. I understand there is a maximum length of cable that would work. Ken YoudeUSB cables are typically only one or two metres long, but are supposed to work up a length of five metres, if you can find one. Beyond that length, you'll need to use a USB active extension cable, sometimes called an "active repeater". Maplins supplies aUSB 2.0 Active Extensionfive-metre (product code L11BT) for £14.99. You could use up to three of these plus a standard cable, which would give you 20 metres for around £50. Because the webcam draws power via the USB cable, I'd recommend running it from a powered USB hub.A wireless webcam would seem to be a better option, but then you'd have to find some way to power the camera. And if you have to do that, it would be worth considered a webcam that uses the HomePlug system to send the data signals over the mains cable. An early example is the VeseNET 14Mbps HomePlug Camera, released as the Solwise PLA-14WCAM. However,Trusted Reviewssays it has limitations and the "image quality isn't brilliant".All things considered, it might be easier to use a CCTV video camera and capture the images.It's worth looking at thei-Catcher website, which includes links to various birdwatching webcams set up by users of its bundled systems. It has a CCTV shop that sells both analogue and digital equipment and software. There's also Kent-based Box Watch Ltd (http://www.boxwatch.co.uk/), which sells a complete system for £260, including the nesting box.Comment: Have you set up a bird watching webcam? How did you do it?Backchat: In a comment (below), Sid C recommends the Gardenature site (http://www.gardenature.co.uk/) and says: "I've seen these working brilliantly. Wireless is recommended (up to 30m); power the camera with a battery."
Where on the net can I find the codes for recording TV programmes, as published in the listings magazines? Bob MawjiVideoPlus+ is the UK version of a system that originated in the US. It's owned by Gemstar-TV Guide International. As far as I know, the only TV guide that puts the codes online is theRadio Times, and you have to go to the individual programme listings to find them. There is also anunlicensed open source programthat will generate codes for most programmes. However, it fails if the code would be longer than six digits.Backchat: Billy Dods adds that "TV Guide UK has them for both terrestrial and satellite TV" (http://www.tvguideuk.co.uk/tvlistings/index-time.php).
I cannot get Windows XP's Remote Assistance to work. When my father (200 miles away) asks for remote assistance, I'm told that I need to update my version of Messenger in order to do this. I am already using Version 8.1. Steve TwiggRemote Assistance, based on Windows Messenger, usually worked very well. You're using Windows Live Messenger, which is an entirely different program: it's a replacement for MSN Messenger. I suspect that if you installWindows Messenger 5.1, then Remote Assistance will work fine. However, Microsoft has generated so much confusion with Windows Live Messenger, Windows Messenger, MSN Messenger and Windows Messenger Service -- all different! -- that it's probably easier just to use something else.If you are using XP Pro, you can use Remote Desktop Connection to take over your father's PC remotely. It's more powerful than Remote Assistance. To run it, go to Start | Programs | Accessories | Communications and select Remote Desktop Connection. There are client versions for remote PCs running Windows 95, 98, 98SE, Me, NT and 2000.Otherwise I findLogMeInworks well and there is a free version. I use it to operate my home PC via the web.
I need to give PowerPoint presentations when I am travelling abroad. I have a laptop and a digital projector, but, under present regulations, I cannot carry both as hand baggage when I fly. I do need the projector, because most of the places that I go don't have one. Trevor WatkinsThere are programs such asPocket SlideShowthat will enable a PowerPoint presentation to be shown on a monitor or TV set. The tricky bit is connecting the PocketPC or other handheld PC to the projector. Geetesh Bajaj describes some of the options atMasterviews, which is a good source of information for international presenters. Also have a look at SlideBurner (http://slideburner.com/), a website that lets you upload your PowerPoint presentation and show it in a web browser.Backchat: Jonathan Briggs says: "The palm-sized Grand EyeZup Pro pocket presenter (http://grandtec.com/eyezup.htm) reads fromFlash memory cards and outputs (via VGA, USB, S-Video etc) directly to a projector." Andy Monroe says it might be possible to use a smaller projector: "There are now several projectors not much bigger that a fag packet, good enough for an office presentation."
Shiny Entertainment'sDave Perryis something of anenfant terriblein the games industry. The Northern Ireland-born, lanky developer set up his ground-breaking studio Shiny Entertainment not far from my grandmother's house in Southern California in 1993 and has since consistently pushed the boundaries in terms of innovation, content and quality. I will never forget the first time I playedEarthworm Jim, the adventures of a space-suit wearing annelid whose fearsome tail was used interchangeably as a grappling hook and whip. Still very little beatsMDKas one of the top platformers of all time.So when the gamesblogheardthat he was doing something even more adventurous with a user-generated massively multiplayer online game competition projectTop Secret, I had to get in touch to find out why he was leaping onto the "Game 3.0" train ride, and what he was hoping his 100,000-strong development community would produce.Is it the dawn of theWikiGameor just a cheeky opportunity to harvest the world's interactive talent for enormous amounts of free content? Grab a cuppa and keep reading to find out...There are so many different opportunity for self-publishing and self-distribution. It seems a shame people are still relying upon the models of shooting things, moving boxes and solving the same old puzzles.One of the challenges is convincing the person who's funding your game that taking a risk is a good thing. That's why you see a lot of sequels. It's a difficult conversation to have. I've been very fortunate. The publisher I'm working with is Acclaim. It's a reincarnated company, by the guy who bet Activision on the future of the CD-ROM in an era when everything was cartridge-based. He's doing the same thing now with online, saying the future is online. Forget about CDs, DVDs, he says. They're all going away. He's led a pretty risky life, and he's funding some really crazy projects.Like Top Secret.Nobody's else is willing to do it! It's not the stuff you'd normally see 'cause publishers would prefer you do something they know is going to work. I'm in a very fortunate position. I'm able to really experiment with stuff. I'm taking advantage of that.Tell me about Top Secret.Top Secret was basically created from the idea that there are a lot of students and a lot of modders who want to take games and make something new out of them. There's never been a time when I've gone to a college and looked at students' art reels when I've not seen something amazing. I know they're out there, but no one's giving them the opportunity to really flex their creativity, or to work together to create something new.I created a wiki on my website which allows students to find one another so they can work together. It's pretty successful, but they keep asking me if I'll join their team. So I finally decided that we should make one big project where anyone around the world can join in if they want to. I think we're going to end up with about 100,000. It' an amazing thing to think that there are so many people out there who want to contribute, who want to help make a game.How will you pick a winner?There's always someone who shines. It's usually pretty easy to pick that guy. We're going to give him a project. A fully-funded team to direct himself. He's going to go from his bedroom to being a director right away.The typical cost of an MMO in the US is about $30 million. This one's getting made in China, so it's going to cost us about $10 million. But it's still the biggest prize in gaming history. Right after I announced this project, Microsoft announced a programming competition and their prize is $10,000. They're not even close.What about everyone else involved in the project?There's going to be a lot of hiring going on. I expect a lot of recruitment to happen as people start to expose these talents. There are going to be a lot of head-hunters in there for people who show up and demonstrate what they can do. It's a really good community effort. It doesn't cost anyone anything to do, it's free. There's no charge to enter.Tell me about the process of entering.All you have to do is sign up atTop Secret's website. Then you're given access to the forum, where you present your talent. We have a main channel where I make a request. For example, I might want a character design. And people will start drawing. They'll submit their drawings and will be judged by myself and several of the veteran designers who are going to help choose the winners throughout the process.If you win one of those tasks, your design will go into the game. You'll get a credit for that, and that can go into your resume. So say you end up making several backgrounds and levels for this game. You get experience, credit, possibly a job and maybe you'll win.Do you anticipate there will be non-gamers taking part?There's no rule at all. I've be incredibly disappointed in the past when people have turned up with really great resumes they're not looking at it as a career, but looking at it as a job. There's no fire, there's no passion. They're just looking for a 9 to 5 and a pay check. They're not the people who are going to make much of a difference in the industry. And then you meet someone else willing to work until 6 in the morning because they just love love love what they do. Those people energise me. They make me want to work until 6 in the morning too.Then again, I don't care how passionate you are if you show up and write a load of stuff that's no good or you tell everyone you're great but nothing good comes out of you. It's who shows up and submits good stuff. It doesn't matter if you're male or female, what country you're in, what age you are, whether you're disabled or not. None of it actually matters. What matters is if you have talent and you're able to demonstrate it.There are a lot of professionals too. I bet if I did a trawl of the database you'll find a lot of ea.com and ubisoft.com email addresses of people who either just want to show they're really good or feel that they're not getting much respect in the company they're in and just want to show that they've got the skills.Will people from different parts of the world have different ideas about what makes a good online game?Oh goodness yes. One of the hardest things is going to be handling people arguing. It's going to be interesting to see how the cultural differences come up, We've got people from every part of the world involved in this.The interview continues tomorrow, when Dave explains his take on "Game 3.0"
Who would have thought that lyrics would be so popular? Certainly not the music publishers or record labels. Although printed lyrics, along with a cover and sleeve notes, have typically been incorporated ("by permission") within the price of an album, the digital revolution has in effect terminated the marriage between words and music. Buy a 79p download from iTunes and you receive nothing more than a naked digital file, along with the licence to play it; music stripped to the bare bones - the equivalent of a blank silver disc housed a clear plastic wrapper.To fill the gap, a host of "unauthorised" websites (ie "without permission") has flourished - user-generated databases where consumers can search, edit and copy amateur transcriptions from other fans. These services might be rough and ready, not mention overloaded with annoying popups (or worse), but they are very popular, according to online monitoring company Hitwise: in the first week of May, 12 of the UK's 25 most-visited music websites were unauthorised user-generated databases of lyrics or guitar tabulatures.Significant undertakingQuite clearly, consumer demand for this kind of information is huge. Which makes it odd that it was not until April this year that US music publishers, with the help of digital media giant Gracenote, launched a legal alternative. Hosted by Yahoo!, the service will allow users to view lyrics from approximately 400,000 songs, and return to publishers a share of advertising revenue. According to Ross Blanchard of Gracenote, the project was a significant undertaking. "It has taken us several years and several millions of dollars to build up this system," he says. "Everything with publishing is more complicated than you think it will be."The service is an important step for many publishers, and one that will legitimise a legal campaign against the owners of the kind of commercial site that Nicholas Firth, president of BMG Publishing Worldwide, describes as "egregious thieves". Lyrics might often be "free" in the context of buying a physical album, but in isolation they have traditionally provided revenue in the shape of sheet music, music books, folios and other licences. Those song lyrics that used to appear in Smash Hits all had to be paid for. There are also complaints about accuracy."I think we're trying to do this a little more softly-gently than some other sectors of the music industry," explains Ralph Peer, chief executive of Peermusic, an independent music publisher. "It's very important that we provide a comparable service before being too hard-hitting against those sites making money off the composers' backs. [But] there's going to come a time when unlicensed sites are going to have to pay the piper."Such actions stretch back to 1996, when the US-based Online Guitar Archive was dissolved, while in December 2005, Lauren Keiser, president of the US Music Publishers' Association (MPA), the body that represents sheet music companies, ramped up the pressure, by suggesting that those running unauthorised websites should be thrown into jail.However, even if publishers dissociate themselves from the heavy-handed actions of their colleagues in the Recording Industry Association of America in their pursuit of filesharers, they have at least followed the recording industry's lead by placing limitations on what consumers can do with the Yahoo! service, including disabling the ability to cut, paste, copy or print lyrics. "We regret the inconvenience," runs Yahoo!'s disclaimer, "but this is the only way at present to offer this content legally."Blanchard notes that Gracenote was only supplied with a "tiny percentage" of lyrics first-hand, and actually had to employ a team of up to 100 people to transcribe them over a period of two years.He describes the Yahoo! service as "first steps" and promises more innovation to come, but as it stands this is a seriously compromised service.It also raises questions about the wider digital world. Pressuring large-scale commercial lyric sites is one thing, but if publishers are too under-resourced to digitise their catalogues, then how can they police the sort of fragmented online ecosystem where lyrics are located on fansites, blogs and social networks? And how can they change consumer perceptions of what is now commonly considered to be "free", and essentially is free in the offline world?Yearly licencesFirth reiterates that publishers are not concentrating on these smaller players - yet - but remains bullish that they can employ what he terms a "graphic rate". "In answer to the question of why aren't we giving away lyrics free now, the better question is, why were we giving them away for all those years? We've looked at the huge demand and decided that this is an untapped income stream."Experience, however, suggests that this will be difficult. When Warner Chappell, Radiohead's publisher, contacted Adriaan Pels, webmaster of fansite AtEaseWeb.com, in 2003 and requested he remove lyrics, Pels refused, arguing that the site directly benefited the band. "I was shocked," says Pels. "Lyrics for Radiohead are hard to find and Thom Yorke's voice is not crystal clear, so I spent a lot of time working on them. I think a fansite like I have is something that contributes to the success of the band. Even at the moment, when Radiohead is doing nothing, we still have 20,000 people a day coming to the site."After intervention from the band's management, Warner Chappell backed down and announced it would be issuing "yearly free licences" to allow similar fan websites to post lyrics. Pels claims he is still waiting for this licence, but the inconvenience of employing the letter of the law is illustrated well enough."This is the problem that the recorded industry is facing," says Tahir Basheer at media specialist law firm Sheridans. "If consumers build up a way of behaving, trying to change that becomes extremely difficult. You can fill that vacuum, but you have to do it in a clever way, and you have to ask what the public is prepared to do to get those lyrics."And surely the most practical solution here would be to embed lyrics into digital tracks and reinstate the relationship between words and music. Given that Apple's AAC files already have a vacant lyrics tab, and Gracenote supplies iTunes with its album and song data, such a move is already on the cards, says Blanchard. "That's definitely part of our deals with the publishers, and it's part of the systems that we built here and we're taking that proposal out to anyone who will listen."Rather than antagonising music fans, this seems a safer long-term bet. Certainly, by removing DRM and offering tracks with higher sound quality, EMI has already raised the prospect of premium downloads retailing for 99p. If that offer could also include lyrics, liner notes and sleeve, then everybody can potentially benefit.It's the basic law of digital business: give the consumer the sort of attractive and compelling product they want, and try not to legislate against what they want to do.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Which laptop per child?The chipmaking giant Intel is accused of damaging the non-profit scheme to provide cheap laptops for the developing world. It says it's helping. Bobbie Johnson reports.Publishers sing new tune over web lyricsFan sites with words to popular songs are targeted as the music business sees a fresh source of revenue. Adam Webb reports.Facebook opens up to developers in pursuit of MySpaceTurning the networking site into an online platform could boost its value, says Charles Arthur.Newly Asked Questions:Is £40 the right amount to pay for a loudspeaker screw?Strictly speaking, it should be Ä61.31 (£41.51), writes Charles Arthur, which will buy you one - count it, one - screw that will hold your valuable Sony XS8303 loudspeaker together.What is the real failure rate of the Xbox 360?Tim Anderson asked Game, one of the largest console retailers in the UK. "That's not information we're able to give out. It's commercially sensitive," it said.Age shall, after all, wither the heroesKeith Stuart: Something strange is happening to heroes. They are getting old.GadgetsiLuv i1055 | Creative Zen Stone | Samsung F3000If you want to change the world, a blog may not be the place to startSeth Finkelstein: Getting ideas into the system can be more difficult than writing web pages and hoping somebody reads them.Fibre, not copper, is the future of the webVictor Keegan: Given today's soaring copper price, maybe simple cost pressures will solve the problem for us.TechnobileAnne Wollenberg: As if dating were not hard enough, social networking sites add another layer of anxiety to the process.Legal wrangles over porn billing softwareMBS's popups seeking payment for access to websites have caused concern, but it could be you breaking the law, not them. Michael Pollitt reports.The PDA is dead, long live the PDA's functionsJack Schofield: It's hard to see sales thriving if buyers have to choose between an 'expensive' PDA and a 'free' smartphone.Councils bypass Ordnance Survey for Google MapsFree our data: Local authorities are increasingly using the free application from the search giant on their websites.Buying a new PC? Don't bother getting more than 3GB of RamThinking of buying a top-of-the-range Windows Vista PC with loads of Ram? Then just be sure that "loads" is no more than 3GB: you could be throwing away anything from £50 upwards, says Scott Colvey.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query. Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.NewsbytesVirtual World, Real TV | Tell Parliament | Portégé mobile office | DAB for iPod | Indirect from Dell | Company Housecall | Star Wars mashups | Baby minderLetters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
I spent an hour playing Bioshock on the 360 yesterday. NDA restrictions mean that- bah - I can't give any details for a couple of weeks. Suffice to say it was a whole lot more enjoyable thanShadowrun, the multiplayer shooter due out tomorrow. Shadowrun, the first title playable simultaneously on both 360 and Vista, is quite frankly the most fiddly game I've ever played on a console.Forget shooting, ducking and running - Shadowrun also asks you to teleport through walls, plant trees to heal and generally prod the pad in the vague hope you have the right skill mapped to the right button. Having to assign actions in the heat of the battle is just far too much like hard work.Of course, the upside is the strategic potential offered by the abilities available to you. But this is the first console game in years where I have needed to read the manual. Add this to the fact that players receive a big warning if they go straight into a multiplayer battle without doing the - lengthy - training first and you have a game that will alienate many potential players before they even get their first kill. Of course, dumbed down games are equally annoying - POTC: At World's End for example - and it may suddenly click over the next few days but at the moment Shadowrun just feels a bit too clever for its own good.
Navigating your way around a local authority's websites can be a painful experience, especially if it involves maps. Perhaps, for example, you are looking for a school on an online map that is generated by survey data from Ordnance Survey. This can be particularly frustrating, with data fields going missing as you zoom in, maps updating slowly and overly complicated interfaces.If that's your impression, it's backed up by a survey carried out for the Society of Information Technology Management. The society tested local authority websites against four key indicators: only 56% of councils had clickable maps; just 35% offered a way to find schools on a map. And only 13% offered a help facility.But while maps and geographical information are vital to local authorities and their websites, the prices and licensing policies of Ordnance Survey, the government's mapping agency, mean that some councils have decided to bypass OS and use free maps from Google to create mashups of information for their websites.Traditional geographical information systems provide "complex data, complex systems", said Dane Wright, IT service manager at Brent council in north London, at the annual conference of GIS in the Public Sector earlier this month. Google Maps, by contrast, provides "complex data, simple systems".Primary interfaceWright told the conference: "What we are doing is moving to Google Maps as the primary interface for casual use by public users. This will leave the GIS system for more specialist users. The reason for doing this is to provide a better user experience - familiar interface, easy to use, integrated aerial imagery, attractive, no need for training or large manuals."So far, a number of councils are considering the introduction of a full service using Google Maps, but Wright is certain there are many other projects in development. The central Directgov site, for example, uses Google Maps for its nationwideschools finder."There are now more opportunities for sharing and collaboration using maps and location data, otherwise known as mashups," Wright said. For example, a group of citizens has used Brent's service to create interactive running and cycling routes (brent.gov.uk/running) in cooperation with a commercial site,runstoppable.com. Or they will be able to search for their nearest vacant allotment, get an aerial view using Google Earth and even register for the site - all from within the map.Switching to Google Maps could save a great deal of public money as Google Maps is free, whereas using OS data can cost thousands of pounds. Furthermore, says Wright, development of a Google interface costs less than development of an equivalent GIS web-mapping interface.It is not yet clear what the total savings might be because Google could begin charging for advertising-free services. But it's unlikely to be as high as the rates OS charges public bodies. Greater London authority alone paid &pound;812,454 to the OS in the financial year 2005-06 - although that includes charges for detailed maps at finer detail than Google Maps affords, which councils still need for some administrative functions. As Wright said at the conference: "We still need OS for internal use with our GIS and we also need it for external use where maps showing the outlines of buildings are required."And isn't the use of Google Maps just the re-use of OS data? After all, OS is listed as a source by Google. So is using Google Maps simply adding a middleman?Not necessarily. OS isn't the only organisation mapping the UK for commercial ends. In future, if Google decides that some other company - such as, for example, Tele Atlas, the Dutch mapping company which already provides some of its maps and satellite photography (while again buying in some data from OS) - would be be a sufficient provider, it could reduce its reliance on OS.Losing revenues from Google - and from local authorities - would increase the pressure on OS to find alternative revenue streams. OS, as a trading fund, receives no direct tax funding, but must cover its costs by charging for its products. This in turn could mean that there are fewer organisations prepared to pay its prices, which could be disastrous for an organisation whose quality of mapping is rightly applauded internationally.OS's commercial policies are already under pressure from two European directives which are trying to bring the EU more into line with the American model of public information sharing. The Regulations on the Re-Use of Public Sector Information, which became UK law in July 2006, seek to eliminate obstacles that hinder the re-use of data. And earlier this month, the Inspire Directive came into force, requiring greater public access to geospatial data, particularly environmental data collected by public bodies such as postcodes, land and buildings. The UK has two years to incorporate the directive into law.Simplify licensingDr Niall Watson, senior geographical information adviser at the Department of the Environment and Rural Affairs, says that Inspire "doesn't preclude trading funds, but there is an emphasis on making the data accessible and easier for the public to access. It's certainly not a mandate to charge for the data, but it is a mandate to improve access to data."The law aims to cut duplication of data, simplify licensing , reduce the cost of data, shift the focus to using the data and encourage greater collaboration.The OS acknowledges these problems. Graham Vowles, principal consultant for OS, says: "There is only one door at the moment to access our data and that is commercial. There is an opportunity here to expand this model by offering the data to local authorities at reduced cost."Guardian Technology's Free Our Data campaign has a simple suggestion which would preserve both the OS's client base and the quality of its mapping by removing financial squeezes from both. Make the data gathered by the OS free for re-use; fund the organisation from direct taxation and allow companies to build businesses on the data without constraint. Then it would not just be giants like Google that could afford to make their maps and location services free.&#183;Heather Brooke is the author ofYour Right to Know&#183;The non-existent Greater London assembly made another appearance in the article above. We should have said Greater London authority which comprises the mayor and the London assembly. This has now been corrected.
Banking on securityAccording to my bank (Nationwide) my debit card was rejected yesterday due to a security breach at a retailer that resulted in card details being stolen (Read me first, May 24). Shame they refuse to tell me which retailer. I might still be using that company and risk being ripped off again.John Loader, Ely&middot;It was TJX, not TKX, which suffered the breach.Andy Brown, by emailA juicy Apple screenI'm sick to the teeth with the anti-Apple stories in the Guardian (Newly asked questions, May 24). It's very tedious, and the screen on my Mac Book Pro is bloody gorgeous.Rob Baker, LondonYou invited Microsoft inCharles Arthur's article was a bit innaccurate (Technobile, May 24). First, Microsoft released a converter sometime in 2006. And in reference to "it's an application in its own right which demands that you let it install itself" - well of course, otherwise how would you install it? You have to trust Microsoft to know where to put it, otherwise it wouldn't work from within Office. And by saying that programs only get on your computer with an "invitation" - I think when you hit the download button, that would be a pretty clear invitation.Alexander Dewar, StirlingWe'll keep data flowingThe Environment Agency is charged with protecting and improving the environment (Free groundwater information dries up, May 17). So it is appropriate that we cover the costs for the time we spend away from doing this job to collate, maintain and provide information for the commercial benefit of others. We do make the vast amount of our information freely available. We recognise the vital role that access to information plays, and will continue to make sure that up-to-date environmental information is available for the public.Barbara Young, chief executive, Environment AgencySilence would be goldenVictor Keegan (No such thing as a free download, May 24) seems much exercised by the cost of music downloads to mobile phones. Like most users of public transport, I would like to know who first had the bright idea of enabling mobile phones to play music.This genius could then be dragged round the country in chains and placed in stocks at each major bus and train terminus for the populace to hurl abuse. After this penance, his ears could be syringed with molten lead.John Illingworth, Bradford&middot;It wasn't long ago that all internet access was in effect on a pay-as-you-go pricing scheme. With dialup you paid by the minute - even if the access itself was free. It was only with broadband that we got used to all-you-can-eat.techdigest.tvThe old-fashioned wayMy wife tried renewing her road tax disc online at direct.gov.uk/taxdisc but was greeted by a page of gibberish from which one could detect that the service was unavailable (Whitehall must learn from Estonia, May 24). So she had to drive to a main post office to do it the reliable way.Robin Stott, WarwickMy ears hurtI recently bought a DAB radio, hoping to receive some stations which I couldn't before (Technology Guardians passim). I could indeed receive more stations, but I found them so poor in audio quality that they were too annoying to listen to. I will be staying with higher quality FM broadcasts.Dave Hines, by email
If Nobel prizes were handed out to things as well as people, one would surely have to go to the humble copper wire. Its versatility has proved astonishing. A quarter of a century ago pundits were writing its obituary because of the imminent arrival of optic fibres, which would leave it dead on the pavement. The reasoning was obvious: fibre was so powerful that a single thread could carry all US telephone calls on Mothers' Day simultaneously. As the price came down it was bound to oust copper. Visionaries were urging Europe to build a fibre network to kick-start an economic revival.Yet 25 years later it still hasn't happened. Other things have come from nowhere, such as mobile phones, but fibre has still not reached the home in Britain, apart from special cases. Such complacency could prove fatal for the long-term success of the UK economy because other nations are starting to roll out FTTH (fibre to the home) in a big way. Singapore has it, France is trialling 100Mbps in Paris (four times as fast as what BT plans for the distant future) before rolling it out elsewhere. It is growing in the US, Japan, South Korea and Scandinavia.Years ago people could be forgiven for arguing that there would never be any content to send down the pipes. Not now. More powerful broadband has created its own demand as users watch web television, upload videos, even store histories of their lives in ways that could never have been contemplated by the architects of the net who made download speeds much faster than upload speeds.Britain has to be among the high-bandwidth countries of the future. It won't be long before the expansion of social networks joins up homes and communities directly through large digital screens enabling video contact with anyone and allowing families to monitor ageing relatives in case of accidents. Remote medicine and diagnosis, with all their explosive possibilities, are at an embryonic stage, as are virtual worlds which could turn the whole web into a three dimensional experience and change social relationships on a global scale.It may seem odd to raise all this when broadband connectivity in the UK is soaring. The problem is not one of width but depth. If the rest of the world adopts fibre faster than us we could be left behind in the race to make digital products that will dominate the future. When Iblogged about thisrecently it got a number of responses, mainly critical, from people in the industry who knew far more than I did. Two points stood out. First, there is at present "no financially credible application today that wants, needs or can even use 24Mb" even if the system could cope with it, which it can't. The other was that today's copper network had been poorly maintained for years ("every time a sparrow pisses ... there is a service crisis") and that a fibre replacement would solve this and future-proof the system. Given today's soaring copper price, maybe simple cost pressures will solve the problem for us.The proposition that we don't need fibre because there won't be demand for it reminds one of past pundits who predicted that the world wouldn't need more than a handful of computers. In this game, supply creates its own demand, as the recent explosion of web content shows. Developers have no incentive to conjure up innovative services if there is not enough capacity for their dreams to come true. YouTube or MySpace couldn't have succeeded on dialup networks. The biggest users of fibre will be products not yet invented. In the digital revolution who dares, wins. In recent years Britain has conducted a fascinating experiment in opening up competition to deliver services along the final copper mile of telephone connections. But this could be at the expense of financing a modern infrastructure on which the digital battles of the 21st century will be fought. It is time to bid copper a sad farewell.&#183;vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Something strange is happening to heroes. They are getting old. This year, a new collection of adventure titles features, shall we say, more experienced protagonists. At the head of the virtual pension queue is Solid Snake, the hero of Konami's Metal Gear Solid series. The forthcoming fourth instalment is set in 2009, and Snake is getting on, with wispy grey hair and a lank moustache. Importantly, Snake isn't just old - he's tired and disillusioned.Elsewhere, there's the dark escape drama Kane and Lynch: Dead Men featuring two middle-aged death row inmates. Even Sam Fisher, the clean-cut American hero of the Splinter Cell series, has relented to time and pressure. And finally there's GTA4, its new protagonist a tired, pug-faced eastern European immigrant, looking for a new life in the States. Gone are the young gangstas of the GTA3 era.In the past, only fighting games welcomed characters of more advanced years, filling out their rosters with kung fu archetypes like the drunken master. Now other genres are catching on - but why? Partly, as is ever the case with this industry, it's about the desire to exploit new technology. The combination of powerful graphics processors with real-time physics systems has allowed for the creation of destructible landscapes and convincing physical deterioration. The emphasis now is on fallibility, not on the glistening utopias of the early 3-D age - older protagonists reflect this. Next-generation hardware can render human characters of such detail that it's almost a shame to waste processing power on fresh-faced youngsters.But there's also a sense that both game developers and gamers themselves are maturing. Free Radical Design is the studio behind forthcoming shooter Haze, in which players will be required to question their motives as corporate soldiers caught in a revolution. The designers said that, in the current climate, it makes no sense to crank out shooters filled with unquestioning grunts and clearcut baddies. How can games not reflect the state of the world?Critics are adjusting to this new regime. The handsome young hero of LucasArts' forthcoming adventure, Charted: Drake's Progess, has been written off as a facile catalogue model, with one writer comparing him to the sort of blandly attractive would-be actors who wait tables in LA. The question is, can videogames take the obvious next step: will we see Lara Croft as a world-weary fortysomething adventurer, battered by years of dinosaur combat?Probably not. In a mainstream, male-dominated industry, masculine heroes are allowed to grow old, but eye candy will always be eye candy.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
As the head of a project that wants to take hi-tech into the developing world, Nicholas Negroponte has had to get used to criticism. Over the past two years the One Laptop Per Child (OLPC) initiative, a scheme aimed at building low-cost computers for education in developing countries, has been attacked many times. Its detractors include rival technology companies, aid workers and African politicians. But last week Negroponte's composure finally broke as he lashed out at Intel for what he called a "predatory" attempt to damage the not-for-profit scheme.The object of his fury was Intel's Classmate PC, a rival laptop from the chipmaking giant with a similar sales pitch. Negroponte accused Intel of capitalising on his work, and said the Silicon Valley giant was deliberately underpricing the Classmate to put extra pressure on OLPC. "Intel should be ashamed of itself," he told CBS News. "It's just - it's shameless."OLPC's machine, the XO-1, is often dubbed the "$100 laptop". It currently costs $175 (&#163;88), although Negroponte says this can be reduced to around $100 as more are manufactured. Under the hood it has innovative power-saving features, cutting-edge long-distance wireless networking capabilities and runs the open source Linux operating system. Intel's Classmate lacks some of those abilities, but has a faster processor and can run Linux or Windows XP Embedded, a stripped-down version of the Microsoft operating system. It costs $285, though Intel is bullish about getting the price below $200.Cutting edgeThe advent of such competition means that some countries previously behind OLPC are now considering their options. Brazil, for example, was set to order millions of XO-1 machines, but is now considering buying the Classmate - or another system - instead. Nigeria, Pakistan and Thailand are also wavering. Despite the perception that the One Laptop product is both technically superior and better-intentioned, its officials are concerned that the technology industry's giants are using their power to stop it from becoming a success. "OLPC has the best power management ever built, better Wi-Fi and connectivity than anywhere else, a display that's four times better than anything on a laptop today," says Walter Bender, the initiative's president of software and content. "There's no comparison between OLPC and other products - but there is a lot of pressure on governments to stick with a known quantity. "Intel denies that it is deliberately targeting One Laptop. However, the company has been one of the most vocal critics of the project in the past. Although sniping has come from many parts of the computing industry - including from Bill Gates, who advised potential buyers to "get a decent computer" instead - it was Craig Barrett, the Intel chairman, who really stuck the knife in."Mr Negroponte has called it a $100 laptop - I think a more realistic title should be the $100 gadget," Barrett told reporters in 2005. His predictions for the machine were scathing. "The problem is that gadgets have not been successful ... it turns out what people are looking for is something that has the full functionality of a PC. We work in the area of low-cost, affordable PCs, but full-function PCs, not handheld devices and not gadgets."Given Barrett's scepticism it seems something of a U-turn for Intel to be fervently pushing its own equivalent. The company, however, rejects claims that it is being hypocritical."Craig referred to One Laptop Per Child as a gadget in 2005, when they first unveiled it," says Agnes Kwan of Intel. "They have come a long way since; back then it was low performance and he fairly referred to it as a gadget. Now we're all working to the same vision, even if we are going about it in different ways."Kwan also denies that Intel is deliberately undercutting its own prices in order to push OLPC out of what it had now decided was a lucrative market."That is not true," she says. "We are not selling Classmate below cost price - we are striving for a sustainable model."It is not the first time that Intel has been accused of using its near monopoly to overpower rivals - for example, it is being investigated by the European Commission over allegations of anti-competitive behaviour. AMD, Intel's only major rival and the company which supplies the chips inside the XO-1, did not waste an opportunity to go on the offensive."What we have here is an infinitely powerful monopoly metaphorically threatening to break the kneecaps of a non-profit if it doesn't 'get in line'," wrote AMD spokesman Michael Silverman in aletterpublished on the Barron's website.But the fact remains that despite huge interest from governments, OLPC has struggled to make a breakthrough with definite orders. Bender, a former director of the Media Lab at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, says technical progress has been lightning fast - but that the main hurdle now is bureaucracy."The situation is that we're asking governments to do something new and different - to not stick with the status quo, and try something new. There is an unbelievable amount of misinformation that's been circulated, but we're going to keep pushing."Lofty ambitionsNeither he nor Intel will rule out working together in the future, but he stressed that the project must not be suffocated by commercial competitors if it is to deliver on its lofty ambitions. "This is not about a philosophy. For example, the power requirements of Classmate just aren't viable in many of these places, period. It's not about there being a better way that you can do this - it's the only way. In the long run, we're thrilled that Intel's taking this marketplace seriously ... but I just want to make sure it's real; that there's sustained interest, and that the prices are going to keep coming down instead of starting to go up because shareholders demand it."Battle of the laptopsXO-1Operating system:LinuxMemory:256MB RAMMedia:1GB flash, USB and SD slots, built-in video cameraProcessor:435MHz AMD GeodeScreen:7.5" low-power displayWireless:802.11b/g/s Wi-Fi, mesh networkingToday's price:$175ClassmateOperating system:Linux or Windows XP EmbeddedMemory:256MB RAMMedia:2GB flash, built-in microphoneProcessor:900MHz Intel Celeron MScreen:7" displayWireless:802.11b/g Wi-FiToday's price:$285&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
When Liz Humby allowed her two sons, aged seven and nine, to use her new laptop, they did more than she bargained for. Although she thought them well-briefed about safe surfing, her eldest accidentally installed the program developed by Micro Bill Systems (MBS) of Leeds which provides a subscription to sexxxpassport, a pornography site. Within days, that was generating popups which stalled the machine for longer and longer, and demanding payment of &pound;19.99."I was very distressed and anxious. I contacted Trading Standards and, while they took details, were fairly unhelpful," says Humby. "It seemed that the easiest thing to do was to hand over the money."She contacted MBS explaining the situation; it responded with an email saying that she was responsible and requesting a legal declaration of her son's age."It was quite heavy-handed, saying my nine-year-old had committed a criminal offence, and they would only cancel the demand if the form was signed in the presence of a solicitor," says Humby.Porn linksMany other people have contacted the Guardian about the company's software. Another woman told us her husband installed the software on his company laptop without realising. Following our advice on discovering how, she ran a program called Internet Explorer History View and sent the evidence."My husband had, as you can see, been Googling and following up on porn links. Certainly he wasn't anticipating being billed for anything," she says. "He was pretty terrified once he realised what was happening, and sent off a postal order. He confessed to me the next day, mainly because the popup bills were paralysing his work." Thanks to a sympathetic IT expert, the popup software was removed and the couple has heard nothing since.But who has acted legally? Is a nine-year-old breaking the law by installing software to access a porn site - or should the porn site be prosecuted for allowing access to a minor? Or should the billing company (here, MBS) be responsible in the latter situation?And are people who remove MBS's software after they have clicked on messages saying "I fully understand the full terms &amp; conditions" and then click "Get Instant Access Now" which confirms that "you are aged 18 or over and have read, understand and accept the full terms and conditions" within their rights? Or are they, and antivirus companies who help them remove it, committing a breach of contract with MBS?Since writing about MBS's novel software (My PC is being held to ransom, March 1), the Guardian has learnt that a second porn site, mysexworld.com, is to adopt it for a three-month subscription service, and that a non-pornography video-on-demand site is also considering its use. That makes it more important to clarify the legal position.One aspect of MBS's operation remains clear: extensive investigation by the Guardian and security companies has shown no evidence that it is ever installed by stealth. In all the cases found, the program is explicitly downloaded and installed, with the user giving permission at a number of steps, before it runs. At that point, if MBS does not receive payment on behalf of the site, the popups will begin.But what of the legal position? Simon Briskman, a partner in the technology law group at Field Fisher Waterhouse LLP, suggests that children who unwittingly subscribe for these services are not committing a criminal offence and that it would also be extremely difficult to enforce a contract against someone under 18 in these circumstances."Companies like MBS can only impose standard terms on consumers if they are fair. Under the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contract Regulations, contractual provisions which cause a significant imbalance in the parties' rights and obligations to the detriment of the consumer are not enforceable." He thinks that MBS's software is more detrimental to the user than nonpayment is to MBS, and that ultimately those affected might take the matter to Trading Standards.Removing the popup billing software has become a topic in the forums of PC Advisor, a business and home PC user magazine in the UK. Briskman's advice is that doing so is within your rights, although Micro Bill Systems may pursue you for money - if you can be found."MBS could easily have found other ways of securing payment, such as taking credit card details. They could have made it crystal clear to users that their computers would be effectively disabled," says Briskman. "Its chosen approach would be regarded by most of us as unfair and may well fall foul of the regulations. Concerned consumers should complain to their local Trading Standards and urge them to take action."But what about those who enlist antivirus software to remove the MBS product? MBS says it is considering legal action against Jacques Erasmus of Prevx, following comments he made previously in the Guardian about the company; it wants to stop Prevx's product from removing its software. Symantec - which sells the Norton security products - has already agreed to such demands.Having received 191 inquiries, West Yorkshire Trading Standards knows all about the problems that many consumers are experiencing. Broadly, though, Trading Standards covering the Leeds area, where MBS operates, backs the company's position. "West Yorkshire Trading Standards have recently held meetings with the company in order to investigate complaints from concerned consumers," says David Lodge, the divisional manager. "It would appear to be very difficult to subscribe to the service without realising. As such, any contracts that are entered into are likely to be legally binding." But he says there will be further meetings with the company.Ashley Bateup, its managing director, remains enthusiastic about providing billing services by this method. One can see why: it is not open to credit card fraud; and as long as Micro Bill Systems can remain certain that its software is always being installed through direct user action, it should have a good chance of being paid.Bateup says the company has taken considerable legal advice and drafted its terms to be fair. However, he takes a tough line with parents like Humby. Minors who install the software, he says, enter the contract under false pretences, which he reckons is a criminal offence of obtaining a service by deception."It is very easy for a consumer to apportion blame on a minor in an attempt to sidestep their responsibility," says Bateup. "We have to differentiate between a genuine minor access and any unsubstantiated claims made by an adult." Briskman, however, says that the idea of a child committing "deception" only applies if they do so with criminal intent - which would be difficult to prove in a court.Due diligenceBateup also talks about "consumer due diligence" - that is, reading the terms and conditions and considering what they mean before subscribing. For removing the software yourself is likely to become more difficult soon."We are taking legal action against a number of companies that promote their software as being able to remove our software," Bateup says. "Their actions constitute an offence since they are inducing consumers to breach their contracts with us. We are taking legal action against all companies that list our software as malware or spyware." Meanwhile, he adds: "We continue to work closely with Trading Standards, who remain content with the processes that we operate."As aggrieved consumers and software companies face Micro Bill Systems and its unique popup billing system head on, human nature mustn't be forgotten. Some people pay scant attention to terms and conditions. A child's curiosity and inexperience, coupled with easily installed software, could also lead to trouble. And where computers are shared, one unthinking person might cause headaches for all. But if more sites begin using the same system, will we all have to read a lot more carefully before we click on "OK"?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
iLuv i1055While the video iPod video is clever, one thing it is not is big. Especially the screen. Should you manage to find a video (iTunes still doesn't allow those in the UK to download TV programmes), watching anything will give you a headache. The iLuv i1055, priced at &pound;149.99, hopes to remedy this with its iPod docking system which features a 7" screen. It also charges your iPod while it's docked, since it needs to be plugged into the mains. But there's more. Flipping up the screen reveals a DVD player. As well as some (pretty poor) speakers, the i1055 features two headphone jacks so you can watch with a mate. Among the accessories, there is a pair of decent headphones as well as a cushioned carry case and a remote control. The screen quality lets it down, as it's not bright enough to watch in anywhere remotely sunny, although you'll be fine if you're on a plane or train.i-luv.comSusi WeaserCreative Zen StoneThe day when we see MP3 players dropping out of cereal packets draws nearer with the arrival of the Creative Zen Stone. The new model is not only tiny and very plasticky, but sells for &pound;27.99 - a new low for a 1GB player from a name brand. Its obvious rival is the Apple iPod shuffle, in that both players are tiny and neither has a screen. All the Stone's player controls are on its fascia including a large play button, track forward and reverse and a volume control. The player also comes with a very basic pair of earphones. Of the two, the Apple player is smaller, more elegant and rectangular rather than curved. Other than the different formats they play back - the Creative is WMA-friendly, the shuffle obviously works with iTunes' AAC tracks - the big difference is that shuffle has a clip for connecting the player to your clothes; with the Stone you have to buy one. While the shuffle may work better for joggers, the Stone has the edge in terms of price and also sound quality, which is surprisingly good for a player of its size.creative.comAshley NorrisSamsung F3000With its tiny screen and large keys the Samsung F300 looks like a relic from the mobile phone class of 1998. But when you flip it over you see that Samsung has been clever and placed a larger screen and multimedia player on the reverse. The idea is that you use the front for basics like making calls and texting, and then the back for listening to music, watching video and surfing the web. It isn't just a clever design, either. The MP3 player is simple to use, has 2GB of storage and can also play back video. It all seems promising - until you have to switch between the two screens. If a call comes in you just turn the handset over and the music cuts out for you to take the call. But if you want to get online, it involves starting the process on the front screen and then turning the handset over to the rear to see the web on the big screen. The buttons you use while online are not intuitive at all and take some getting used to. The small screen on the front also has limitations in that you can only see one contact or one line of a text message at a time. Finally, the handset is GPRS rather than 3G, which makes for good battery life but limits online activity. Overall, this is a corking idea for a handset. If Samsung refines it a little it could be a real winner.samsung.co.ukAN
Strictly speaking, it should be &euro;61.31 (&pound;41.51), which will buy you one - count it, one - screw that will hold your valuable Sony XS8303 loudspeaker together. Actually, you'll need four of them, as thepictureclearly shows.So, will you be paying by cash or credit card, sir or madam? Do you carry that much cash around with you?The discovery of this pricey fixing, verifiable throughSony's parts database, unveils the strange world of spare parts, where things that you would expect to cost about &pound;1 for a dozen instead cost a dozen pounds each.What on earth could it be made of? "The crushed souls of Sony gamers," suggested one wag on the quartertothree.com forums. "Plutonium," ventured another. "Unobtanium," said yet another.We did call Sony to find out the secret of fixings that cost as much as a meal in a London restaurant (including wine). Alas, its people were in Unobtanium too.Still, if you feel excited about that screw, and you've got an XS8303 (or perhaps two - speakers often come in pairs), then you can get your very own manual for them online. Just drop byManuals Paradiseand you can download the PDF - for just $19.50 (&pound;9.80).Those screws are looking a bit cheaper already, aren't they?
Birdwatching webcamI want to set up a webcam to watch birds nesting on the wall outside, and connect it to my PC's USB port. I understand there is a maximum length of cable that would work.Ken YoudeJS:USB cables are typically only one or two metres long, but are supposed to work up a length of five metres, if you can find one. Beyond that length, you'll need to use a USB active extension cable, sometimes called an "active repeater". Maplins supplies aUSB 2.0 Active Extensionfive-metre (product code L11BT) for &pound;14.99. You could use up to three of these plus a standard cable, which would give you 20 metres for around &pound;50. Because the webcam draws power via the USB cable, I'd recommend running it from a powered USB hub. A wireless webcam would seem to be a better option, but then you'd have to find some way to power the camera. And if you have to do that, it would be worth considered a webcam that uses the HomePlug system to send the data signals over the mains cable. An early example is the VeseNET 14Mbps HomePlug Camera, released as the Solwise PLA-14WCAM. However,Trusted Reviewssays it has limitations and the "image quality isn't brilliant".All things considered, it might be easier to use a CCTV video camera and capture the images. It's worth looking at thei-Catcher website, which includes links to various birdwatching webcams set up by users of its bundled systems. It has a CCTV shop that sells both analogue and digital equipment and software. There's also Kent-basedBox Watch Ltd, which sells a complete system for &pound;260, including the nesting box.TV codes onlineWhere on the net can I find the codes for recording TV programmes, as published in the listings magazines?Bob MawjiJS:VideoPlus+ is the UK version of a system that originated in the US. It's owned by Gemstar-TV Guide International. As far as I know, the only TV guide that puts the codes online is theRadio Times, and you have to go to the individual programme listings to find them. There is also anunlicensed open source programthat will generate codes for most programmes. However, it fails if the code would be longer than six digits.Remote Windows worryI cannot get Windows XP's Remote Assistance to work. When my father (200 miles away) asks for remote assistance, I'm told that I need to update my version of Messenger in order to do this. I am already using Version 8.1.Steve TwiggJS:Remote Assistance, based on Windows Messenger, usually worked very well. You're using Windows Live Messenger, which is an entirely different program: it's a replacement for MSN Messenger. I suspect that if you installWindows Messenger 5.1, then Remote Assistance will work fine. However, Microsoft has generated so much confusion with Windows Live Messenger, Windows Messenger, MSN Messenger and Windows Messenger Service - all different! - that it's probably easier just to use something else.If you are using XP Pro, you can use Remote Desktop Connection to take over your father's PC remotely. It's more powerful than Remote Assistance. To run it, go to Start | Programs | Accessories | Communications and select Remote Desktop Connection. There are client versions for remote PCs running Windows 95, 98, 98SE, Me, NT and 2000. Otherwise I findLogMeInworks well and there is a free version. I use it to operate my home PC via the web.Flying PowerPointI need to give PowerPoint presentations when I am travelling abroad. I have a laptop and a digital projector, but, under present regulations, I cannot carry both as hand baggage when I fly. I do need the projector, because most of the places that I go don't have one.Trevor WatkinsJS:There are programs such asPocket SlideShowthat will enable a PowerPoint presentation to be shown on a monitor or TV set. The tricky bit is connecting the PocketPC or other handheld PC to the projector. Geetesh Bajaj describes some of the options atMasterviews, which is a good source of information for international presenters. Also have a look atSlideBurner, a website that lets you upload your PowerPoint presentation and show it in a web browser.Backchat&middot;I mentioned previously that the internet domain assigned for our use according to the ISO 3166-1 standard is gb, not uk (as in guardian.co.gb). Roger Frost, from the ISO Central Secretariat in Geneva, adds that: "GB is also the United Kingdom's international road vehicle distinguishing sign - the code on the oval nationality stickers on cars."
We asked Game, one of the largest console retailers in the UK. "That's not information we're able to give out. It's commercially sensitive," it said. As for Microsoft, in the early days after the console's 2005 launch it claimed that failure rates were no higher than an industry average of between 3% and 5%. That now seems wildly optimistic.Last month, its vice-president of entertainment, Peter Moore, refused to answer the question, telling the Mercury News: "I can't comment on failure rates." According to Moore, if someone has a faulty console they should worry about the customer service.Anecdotal evidence about how many have suffered the "red ring of death", where the power button sticks on red, not green, is hard to assess because it is those with faulty boxes who make most noise, but Microsoft seems to have a problem. A notable feature of surveys such as one conducted recently by the magazine360 Gameris that multiple failures are common, with some users on their sixth or seventh console.Third-party repair specialists also cast doubt on the 360's reliability. Simon Donn at Undercutter UK in London Colney, Hertfordshire, says: "There's a particular problem in relation to overheating. Quite often it's to do with the soldering on the board, and the fact that the fans, which are already very loud, can't seem to extract enough air. "In a statement, Microsoft said "there is not a single root cause or systemic issue with any of the Xbox 360 consoles ... there are obviously many things that can malfunction at any given time."Initial quality problems are unsurprising with a games console rushed to market, but 18 months later shouldn't such issues be resolved? Nobody we spoke to seems confident.Another problem relates to the 360's Digital Rights Management. When you buy downloadable content, such as a game from the Xbox Live Arcade, it comes with a usage restriction. It is fully unlocked for the console to which it is downloaded, even for offline use or for users with separate profiles. But if the machine breaks and you replace it, the game is only unlocked when the original buyer is logged into Xbox Live. That may seem a subtle distinction, but it enrages users who discover that their warranty replacement does not restore full rights to what they have paid for."It is this single issue, and the way that Microsoft has handled it, that has convinced me that this will be the last MS console I will own," says one disillusioned user on Microsoft's officialcommunity forums, in a thread with more than 2,000 posts. The solution is to find a third-party repairer who will return your actual machine, rather than a new or refurbished model - but that means spending money, which seems unreasonable during the warranty period.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Thinking of buying a top-of-the-range Windows Vista PC with loads of Ram? Then just be sure that "loads" is no more than 3GB: you could be throwing away anything from &pound;50 upwards.Buy a PC with 4GB of Ram, and you can wave goodbye the last gigabyte. The reason is the memory-mapped input-output (MMIO) method - the system by which PCs communicate with installed devices, such as graphics cards.A computer's internal devices may require their own allocation of Ram to be mapped into the main system Ram. But 32-bit computers, most of which run XP or Vista, are limited to a maximum addressable memory of 4GB.A machine fitted with, say, a 512MB graphics card must find mapping space for that half-gigabyte in the computer's memory address book - even though the device will use its own memory during operation. However, Ram allocated for device-mapping is not available to applications. This is not a Microsoft-specific quirk; it affects any 32-bit system, including those running Linux.The problem is that memory-mapping of devices takes place in the addressable area above 2GB, traditionally considered a "safe zone" because consumer PCs tended not to have more memory than this. With the arrival of Vista, though, computer buyers are ramping up their Ram requests.Paul, a retired senior police officer, says: "I consider myself fairly knowledgeable about computers, but I didn't know about Ram limitations. I bought a 2GB PC and later added more memory. Before doing so I checked the supplier's website and the Ram options went to 4GB - so there appeared no reason not to purchase a further two 1GB sticks. That's where the fun started." Thanks to MMIO, his PC's 512MB graphics card and other devices lopped a gigabyte off what he expected to be 4GB of memory available for applications.The Guardian has found many PC manufacturers offering upgrades to 4GB. Dell, for example, sells PCs with 32-bit editions of Windows pre-configured with up to 2GB of memory. But the option to go to 4GB is available and would-be buyers are told: "Upgrading your memory is one of the most cost-effective ways to supercharge performance." True, so long as you stop at 3GB.The Guardian asked Dell why it actively promotes 4GB in machines that can only provide 3GB of usable memory. Dell responded: "Whilst Dell does not call out this restriction on its website it does clearly state the reduction in capacity in its legal birdseed [smallprint] that appears on advertisements."But Gareth Odgen, editor of Custom PC magazine, says that shoppers should simply not bother with 4GB PCs: "There's not much point putting 4GB in a 32-bit system."
Are sales of PDAs, or "personal digital assistants", booming or falling? Ask the research companies. Gartner reports that shipments grew by a healthy 18.4% to a record 17.7m units last year, while GfK reckons they plunged by 41%.As you will have guessed, they are counting different things. GfK takes the traditional view that PDAs are handheld computers whose sales are falling because people are buying smartphones instead. Around 60% of the devices that Gartner calls PDAs, GfK would count as phones.Gartner uses a less traditional definition, but in some ways it's more interesting. It reckons that PDAs are data-centric gadgets that you normally use with two hands, and voice is secondary. Smartphones are, conversely, primarily used for voice, and they're usually used with one hand. It's the difference between, say, a RIM BlackBerry (a PDA in a declining market) and a BlackBerry Pearl (a smartphone in a growing market).Another difference is the way devices are seen and sold. GfK reports that at Christmas, the average price of a PDA (&pound;161) was higher than the network-subsidised average price of a smartphone (&pound;138), from which "the consumer received far more functionality". It also notes that "retailers are taking PDAs out of their stores, meaning they are no longer visible to consumers to generate interest".Gartner, by contrast, says that "48% of all PDAs shipped in 2006 were purchased by enterprises". They are doing serious work for delivery van drivers, field service engineers etc. So the PDA market may be around for a while, even if it becomes very small.But it's hard to see sales thriving if buyers have to choose between an expensive PDA and a "free" smartphone. The fact that the smartphone might well cost them &pound;400 without a contract doesn't make it expensive, it just makes it seem a bigger bargain.There is one consolation for beleaguered PDA enthusiasts: smartphones are basically PDAs in flashier cases. All the main smartphone operating systems started in the PDA market, including Palm, RIM, Symbian (which came out of Psion), and Windows Mobile, which is a version of Windows CE.There is even some consolation for Microsoft, which has struggled with CE for a decade. Now it is growing fast and has about 56% of the PDA market on Gartner's definition, ahead of RIM (19.8%), Palm (11.7%) and Symbian (5.4%). Of course, success in PDAs is not the same as success in smartphones, but it's better than nothing.What happens in the future is anybody's guess, but I expect the mobile phone industry will continue to add functions. Often, new features are developed on different devices - Game Boys, Palms, iPaqs, iPods, TomToms or whatever - then imported into mobile phones. What an iPaq could do five years ago, a smartphone can probably do today.This insatiable appetite for integration is going to make life tougher for the companies that sell standalone devices. It doesn't mean people will stop buying cameras, MP3 players and other gadgets. But it does mean there will be more cases where you don't actually need the higher quality that you can get from a separate device. And as the smartphone's functions get better, other devices will be squeezed.It's much the same as someone from Microsoft jokily described the effect of the company's software. He told me: "We're not raising the bar, we're raising the floor."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
In an era when computers get ever smaller and more portable, it seems almost a throwback; but software giant Microsoft hopes a &pound;5,000 coffee table bristling with technology could be the next big step forward. Surface, a table-style PC with a touch-sensitive screen which replaces a traditional mouse and keyboard, was unveiled in California yesterday.Using a so-called "multi-touch" interface, people can move items around in front of them with their fingers or write on the table using a pen. The device, which measures 75cm (30in) across, may echo some of the earliest computer games built into the surface of pub tables, but Microsoft hopes it will launch a new generation of computers. Steve Ballmer, chief executive of Microsoft, said: "We envision a time when surface computing technologies will be pervasive, from tabletops and counters to the hallway mirror."The Surface table can interact with other devices such as mobile phones, music players and digital cameras. Users can place compatible gadgets on to the table and have the computer recognise them wirelessly. Matt Rosoff, an analyst with independent research group Directions on Microsoft, said: "Once you open it up to applications, what you can think of is limitless." The Surface will go on sale in the US later this year with a price tag of between $5,000 and $10,000 (&pound;2,026- &pound;5,041). But Microsoft claims that the price will drop quickly as more people buy it. Within three to five years it could be cheap enough for home users, although initially it is expected to be bought by large companies. Starwood hotels, which owns the Sheraton chain, has said it will install the Surface at its premises, and other early takers include the Las Vegas casino group Harrah's and mobile phone operator T-Mobile, which plans to use Surface PCs as displays in its high street shops.Touch screen computers have long been tipped as the next big thing, and a series of developments have pushed the technology to the forefront in recent months, including the forthcoming iPhone from Apple, which features a touchable screen instead of the buttons usually found on a mobile phone. The Surface machine can recognise several different touches at the same time, allowing people to use multiple fingers or have several people using the computer simultaneously.Stephen Brewster, of the University of Glasgow's department of computing science, said: "Using a PC is very much a solitary activity, but there's something very tangible about having something that you can share with other people."
Every tech site in the universe (including our ownTechnology blog, naturally) is talking about Microsoft's Surface - a new multitouch coffee table thing, which allows the manipulation of onscreen elements by several users at once. There's more info at Microsoft'spress site, but essentially, it's currently being aimed at casinos and retail outlets, and may eventually end up as a home technology.There are some great videos of the device being shown off (here's one). You can, for example, download photos from your camera by just placing it on the tabletop, then manipulate the digital images by shoving them around with your fingers. Microsoft have talked about how it'll revolutionalise the way we "shop, dine and entertain" - it's the latter bit that interests us of course. It seems that Surface may well turn out to be a new games platform for Microsoft - in some capacity. Maybe as a 21st century alternative to the classic tabletop coin-ops of the eighties.I keep thinking about simple games like shove ha'penny orCrossfire, but I'm clearly not yet in touch with Microsoft's vision. Actually, Chu Chu Rocket would be amazing!
I missed this on Monday, but Hollywood Reporter has revealed that action movie director John Woo and game designer Warren Spector are teaming up to work on a new movie/videogame project named Ninja Gold. The story revolves around a traditional Ninja warrior who must adapt to operate in the modern world of covert warfare."The game concept is actually based on facts that the Yakuza and the Russian mob are involved in tons of gold being stolen in South Africa," Terrence Chang, Woo's production partner, told Hollywood Reporter.Woo has appparently been involved in creating the cast of characters and some key set-pieces for the game, and these will transfer to the movie - although the game will have a more fantasy-based scenario. Spector will oversee the game, but will also have a production credit on the film. All very cosy.John Woo is one of several mainstream directors to get intimately involved with videogames. He co-owns a development studio, Tiger Hill Entertainment; its promising shooter, Stranglehold, will be released by Midway later this year. As for Spector, this isn't his first dalliance with the movie world - Columbia Pictures optioned his dark PC adventure Deus Ex for a movieback in 2002, but nothing happened. It is, however, difficult to imagine a John Woo movie about gold hunting ninjas not making it to multiplex screens everywhere.
As expected, Palm co-founderJeff Hawkins has unveiled the Foleo, which turns out to be a 10.2 inch widescreen Linux-based notebook that weighs about 2.5 pounds.That's little smaller than real Windows-based portables such as the old IBM ThinkPad 240X (10.4 inch screen, 3.2 pounds including hard drive). In concept, it is even more similar to older systems such as theCompaq Aero 8000(10in screen, 2.9 pounds), which ran Windows CE, and Psion's smallerSeries 7 NetBook(7.7in screen, 2.64 pounds). Both of those were "instant on" devices and both had good keyboards, but whether the Foleo matches them is impossible to tell at this stage.The key differentiator is, of course, synchronisation with a smartphone. The press bumf says:The Palm Foleo mobile companion has a large screen and full-size keyboard with which to view and edit email and office documents residing on a smartphone. Edits made on Foleo automatically are reflected on its paired smartphone and vice versa. Foleo and its paired smartphone stay synchronized throughout the day or at the touch of a button. This powerful combination is for productivity-minded business people who want a more complete mobile solution for email, attachments and widescreen access to the web.That must be a compelling feature for some users, of course, but for how many?Neither the Compaq/HP Aero 8000 (and many similar CE Pro notebooks) nor the Psion Series 7 had any success in the marketplace, which ultimately turned to subnotebooks running Windows. The more recent tranche of Origami tablet-style UMPCs (ultra mobile PCs) with 7 inch screens hasn't sold well either.Will Palm succeed with the Foleo where others have failed? Would you buy one? If so, why?Update: There's now coverage atThe Globe and Mail,Treo Central, and other places.
Business Week has a story headlinedPS3 Price Cut Too Little Too Latebased on quotes from Bank of America analyst Michael L Savner. The story says:"Despite growing anticipation that a $100 price cut for the PS3 is imminent this summer or early fall, we do not believe such a move would meaningfully improve stagnant PS3 sales and we are growing more concerned that a share shift away from Sony and Microsoft to Nintendo's Wii platform is incrementally negative of all 3rd-party publishers," Savner said.He continued, "Based on our analysis, we conclude that a $100 price cut for the PS3 (we have dismissed a potential $50 cut as meaningless) would still leave the 'all-in' cost for a PS3 console and basic accoutrements 20-25% higher than the comparable Xbox 360, and does not even reflect the possibility that Microsoft could also lower its hardware prices."Sony's price-cuttng options are limited because it's "losing approximately $200 per console at $599, based on our estimates," says Savner.The move to Nintendo is "negative of all 3rd-party publishers" because Nintendo dominates the markets for Nintendo games. This is bad news for companies such as EA: they have invested heavily in next-generation development for PS3 and Xbox 360 games. It's also bad news for Sony, because the profits from games and licenses is supposed to make up for the loss on hardware.Thanks toGamesIndustry.bizfor the link.
Devastated.Boing Boing's coverage of the coolest thing to replace those irritating car and mobile phone ads that delay the start of a feature film clearly states thatMSNBChasonlydone a deal withUScinemas to bring a giant, motion-sensored, group-movement-controlled, interactive breakout-style game to the deadspace between when you buy your popcorn and the movie begins.From the article:The game isNewsbreaker, a simple break-out style game that rewards you for clearing lines by dropping real-time RSS news headlines, but the gameplay is the cool part: a motion sensor in the theater allows the entire audience to control the paddle by swaying in unison from side to side.Surely this is the antithesis of anambient game?Cheer us up on a rainy Wednesday: what do we get that they don't?
Amidst afairly straightforward OMG-the-Wii-is-taking-over-the-world article(originally from the San Fran Chronicle, I suspect), there's an interesting snippet:The release of the Disney film "Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End" was accompanied by a Wii game of the same name that lets players use controllers to pretend to be sword-fighting buccaneers.Yup, that's pretty much what we'd expect now that publishers are getting the idea that the Wiimote can be used like a, well, sword-y sort of thing. You know, you wave it around. Hang on, that sounds like something Imused about back in January:But the Wii instantly makes the PS3 and Xbox 360 look like the mainframes of the past, stuck in an old paradigm. And today's kids, of course, are tomorrow's console buyers too...And if there isn't someone out there writing a Star Wars game for the Wii, complete with light sabre duels, I'd just like to say: start now and you'll make a killing next Christmas.And guess what we find only a little further down the article?The head of the LucasArts, the game division for "Star Wars" series creator George Lucas, told AFP a Wii game that lets players wield virtual light sabers is on the horizon.Oh, lordy, I think they might just have a hit on their hands there.
Truly astounding. The calibre of the competition entries forthe great gamesblog Lumines Plus giveawaywas beyond expectations. Seriously, congratulations to everyone who submitted! Over the past week and a half, the gamesblog's inbox has been bursting at the seams with the talent that's passed through the door. However, in light of the limited number of games we have to give away, we have had to whittle them down to just a few. It was a challenge, but in the end we chose to distribute prizes to the best creators from each artistic category entered: music, art and foodstuff. We are very pleased to announce that the winners are...cptalbertwesker &amp; catmoofor theirstunning Space Channel 5 cakeDennis Chowfor hisRez-inspired dance track, break0ut(props for creating it without a keyboard!)cavalcadeforLumines Plus, the image and the lyricsWith this kind of creative ability on display, who knows what you'll do for a copy of Final Fantasy Fables: Chocobo Tales...
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Two of Last.fm's founders, Martin Stiksel and Felix Miller. Photograph: Martin GodwinLast.fm, one of the poster children of Britain's internet startup scene, has finally been bought by America's CBS for $280m - putting a stop to what seemed like endless speculation about the well-regarded site.According to apiece by my esteemed colleague Jemima Kiss:Leslie Moonves, the CBS chief executive, said: "Last.fm is one of the most well-established, fastest-growing online community networks out there. Their demographics also play perfectly to CBS' goal to attract younger viewers and listeners."Last.fm is a music recommendation engine that "listens" to your music habits and then uses some analysis to determine other songs you might like. It claims around 20 million active users and is generally considered to be among the pioneers of Web 2.0.Last year in the wake of the YouTube acquisition by Google, I wrote along piece on the startup scene in Britain, which told the story of Last.fm's beginnings.What it didn't detail, however, was that actually the Guardian played a pivotal role in the site's history - it turns out thatan article here in 2003 by Ben Hammersleyon the "scrobbling" application developed by student Richard Jones was read by the guys at the nascent Last.fm, who then met up with RJ and brought him on board - then used the system of listening to your music tastes to turn the service into what we know today.
Today at The Wall Street Journal's D digital conference, Palm co-founder Trip Hawkins is due to show off a new handheld that he has said is neither a handheld nor a smartphone ... but then, he won't say what it is. It's calledHawkand guesses often suggest it might be a mini-tablet device with a touch screen that comes somewhere between a Treo phone and Palm's LifeDrive handheld.Way back in 2005, Hawkins told thePortland Business Journal:I always think of mobile computing as personal computing. This long-term vision has led us through everything -- first the organizers and now through the smart phone space. It's like everything a personal computer is. Continue down that path. What are the implications of a world where everyone has a super high-speed Internet connection in their pocket and many gigabytes of storage, super-fast processors, audio, visual and multimedia? What are the consequences of that? How will that change computing when you have all that stuff available to you all the time? I try to think into the future. That's how we come up with new products. So I'm not going to tell you what it is, but it's following the consequences of mobile computing.Suggestions are welcome, but this post has been witchdoctored so anyone using the phrase "iPhone killer" goes straight to hell without passing Go.The talk will be given at 11:30am Pacific Time.Update:TreoCentralhas apress releasethat says: "Palm, Inc. today announced the Palm Foleo, world's first smartphone companion product." It's essentially a notebook replacement that stays synchronised with a smartphone, and costs $499. But it could be a fake: theFoleoname has been around before.
Bricking it: Lego's top of the charts - Photograph: Oliver Lang, AP/Getty ImagesA bit off topic this, but stick with me. The most reputable company in the world, according to a survey conducted by theReputation Instituteis Danish toy manufacturer Lego. Ikea came second, followed by Italian food company Barilla.The system works by giving a rating between 0 and 100, based on 60,000 interviews asking ordinary people to score companies on "trust, esteem, admiration and good feeling". Given that way of ranking, it's not hard to imagine why Lego - a clean brand full of happy memories - scores so highly.But where are the technology companies? Well, the highest placed electronics name is Canon, at No 16. Other notables in the top 50 include Matsushita (21st), Philips (27th), Bosch (42nd) and Nokia (44th). If you count companies primarily known for vehicle engineering, then you could also add Toyota at No 6, Honda at 20 and BMW at 34. Considering the size of the industries involved I don't think that's a brilliant showing.The British case, however, is even more concerning: there are six UK-based names in the top 200, led by Marks &amp; Spencer at 23. The others are Tesco, Boots, Unilever, Sainsburys and Morrison's - and apart from Unilever, which makes food and homecare products, these are all basically straight retail. That's got to be a disappointing show, even if some of Britain's biggest businesses are not universally loved - BT, Vodafone - or plain controversial - Shell, BP, GlaxoSmithKline, British American Tobacco. The best we can offer is a handful of retailers - perhaps meaning that Napoleon was right when he cribbed Adam Smith and called Britain "a nation of shopkeepers".This chimes, in a way, with therecent plea from Sir Harold Krotoabout the increasing poverty of science education in the UK. If Britain's reputation is built through companies like M&amp;S and Tesco, rather than building on our skills in science and engineering, then the service-oriented culture will just continue to get gain mass and dominate our national cultures.
If you want to play the best games in 2007 then the Xbox 360 is the only console in town. The PS3 as a games machine isn't worth looking at till next year whole the Wii is ploughing a highly profitable furrow away from core gamers. But if you want to play the state of the art stuff now - Halo 3, Mass Effect - and especially if you want to play online then the 360 is the console to get. But there is a problem. And not just the fact that PS3 will eventually get its gaming act together. No, this issue is much closer to home - the hardware itself.Microsoft would never admit it but the 360 is a hugely unreliable bit of kit. My launch machine lasted 6 months before the ring of death and out of 7 close friends who bought a 360 at launch (Dec 2005) only one still has a working console. The latest one to go was last week and my friend was hugely aggrieved to find that Microsoft wanted to charge him 85 quid to fix a consumer device that had gone wrong barely 18 months into usage. Luckily for him the shop replaced it but asgamesindustry.bizargue in their timely editorial, Microsoft need to wake up to the problems with the 360 hardware or risk losing the goodwill generated by Live and some exciting games. How is your 360 bearing up? Needed a replacement yet?
Microsoft has announced the public release of it's new Surface computer - essentially a table-based touchscreen.The $10,000 table is initially going to be aimed at retailers, casinos and business, but eventually I would imagine the price will drop and they'll try and push the technology for home use - we've seen Bill Gates use this technology on stage at various conferences, and on a recent visit to Microsoft HQ in Redmond, I saw this deployed in the company's "digital home". More jargonhere.Looks kind of nifty - and another boost for touch-based computing.Jack adds: You can see the Surface in action in a video atMicrosoft 10. It shows possible uses such as mobile phone retailing andHarrah's casinos, and sharing tracks between Zunes. One of the developers wasAndy Wilson. CNet covers thebackground.
Codemasters has announced a game based on 1987 movie 'classic',Dirty Dancing(be careful when following that link - it plays 'I've Had the Time of My Life'reallyloud). It's due out later this year. According to the breathless press release:"fans can now step back into the year 1963 and encounter the world of their favourite film. Through this action puzzler, Dirty Dancing enthusiasts now have the opportunity to experience the life of Baby, learn to dance with the resident dancing couple, Johnny and Penny, and work alongside the team at the renowned Kellerman's Mountain House Resort."It seems that thetie-inwill contain several mini-games through which players earn 'Camp Dollars' (you couldn'tmakeit up) with which to purchase "Dirty Dancing memorabilia, cabin furnishings, and the all-important dance lessons." Sadly, this being a PC title, there's no SingStar tie-in or even rhythm action elements - perhaps for the inevitable PS3 conversion, lads?Anne Parducci, EVP Marketing at Lionsgate says, "For two decades, girls and women have identified with Baby, and through this wonderful game from Codemasters, they will have the opportunity to immerse themselves in her world like never before."This is good news as, previously, women wishing to immerse themselves in Baby's world were forced to book a week at Butlins Minehead and then get off with someone twice their age during the Macarena.So anyway, if this takes off, can we expect a new influx of chick flick conversions? Which do you think would make the 'best' videogame? Pretty Women could be a successful GTA-style adventure with each player working the streets as a Hollywood hooker, attempting to score a rich client with relationship issues. Any more?
Wired has finally publisheda full transcript of Game|Life's interviewwith Nintendo's George Harrison, senior vice president of marketing and corporate communications and second-in-command at Nintendo of America.Wired reckons the money quote is the claim that the Wii will get 40-45% of the hardware market and maybe over 50%, so it's goodbye to Sony's dominance. But there are other interesting quotes, such as this one about the "new demographic", ie Wii gamers now includes your grandma. Harrison says:One thing you have to remember about the expanded audience is, they are not so focused on a category that something is launched, known by everyone, and done with. And so I think we have to change our mentality. As we got into the months of March and were tracking the awareness, awareness of Wii is still at about 60% among people over 25. That means that 40% of the population has still never heard of Wii. It's hard to imagine, but it's true. And as a result, to them, Wii Sports and other things are still brand new.As for coping with stock shortages, Harrison says:Well, the supply situation is improving. What we don't know is when the demand is going to be reached. So we've actually shipped quite a bit more product in the first five or six months of our launch than any other console did in the last couple of generations. But it's still shocking to us that we've gone from being out of stock after one day a week, to now we're out of stock after three days a week. It's not clear yet when we'll be in stock on a regular basis every day of the week; all we can do is slowly increase production and find out.
Tuesday's Chatterbox
Microsoft launched 3-D mapping last year in Virtual Earth.Today it has added a virtual New York. There's afantastic WMV videothat makes it look like running Microsoft Flight Simulator without the plane. I haven't tried this myself, but good luck if you think you can do it over the Web ;-)Microsoft is adding other cities including the big one: a 3-D version of Northampton, England.
Deutsche Telekom has become the latest investor inJajah- joining, among others, Intel and Sequoia Capital -as I reported today.The [Austrian founders], who have since moved to America to develop their product, welcomed the latest addition to their third round of funding. [Daniel] Mattes said he aimed to follow Skype, the start-up bought by eBay in 2005 for $2.6bn (£1.4bn). "Our goal was to have 1 million users after a year, because that was what Skype had," he said. "In fact, we had 2 million users in a year. We're very excited."The premise of Jajah is pretty simple: log on to the website, enter your phone number and the one you want to call and it makes the connection over the internet. The point? Well, if you are both JaJah users on landline phones then it's free. If you are on mobile phones, then it can turn an international call into two local calls - therefore drastically reducing the cost, particularly if you get lots of minutes free in your calling plan.But, as I point out in the article, Jajah is far from being alone. Aside from Skype's mobile VoIP offerings, there are a host of other companies trying to work out how to profit from internet calling and the huge mobile phone market - and many of them are developing complex systems which merge instant messaging and presence-based information with traditional internet telephony.The rub, of course, comes in ease of use: everybody's still trying to find the killer way to make mobile internet calling as easy as normal dialling. So would you use one of these services? What would convince you to?
Google's $3.1 billion cash purchase of DoubleClick has attracted FTC scrutiny, according to The New York Times.The story says:The inquiry began at the end of last week, after it was decided that the Federal Trade Commission instead of the Justice Department would conduct the review, said the executive, who asked not to be identified because he had not been authorized to speak. The two agencies split the duties of antitrust enforcement.The Electronic Privacy Information Center, a citizens rights organisation, the Center for Digital Democracy and the United States Public Interest Research Group filed a complaint that the takeover would "give one company access to more information about the Internet activities of consumers than any other company in the world." The EU also has privacy concerns.It's probably good news for Google that the FTC is taking on the case, because it has a consumer focus. The FTC investigated both Microsoft and Intel without taking any significant action. However, it does mean that Google is now on the anti-trust radar screens, which could have repercussions down the line.
I recently chatted to veteran coderDave Doak(Goldeneye, Timesplitters) aboutHaze, his forthcoming FPS for the PS3. But we also managed to fit in Halo 3, Wii, "boring" Deus Ex, the state of the industry and the importance of gaming narrative. Hurrah for PR-free interviews.What is Haze?Haze is a first person shooter (FPS) based on a new technology that we started building 3 years ago in the transition to the next-gen platforms. It's a war game and we are telling a soldier's story. It's a story with proper character evolution. The game has a nice commentary about the world, basically showing that war is not simply black or white.How do you keep the combat interesting through the game?A number of things happen to the character over the fifteen hours or so the single player game lasts for. There is a real evolution for him. But other areas are interesting too, such as the vehicle combat. And we've had to get away from the trap many FPS games fall into by simply adding a new weapon. So we've introduced the concept of (in game energy booster) Nectar instead. Nectar is both visceral reward thing and also part of the story.You've talked a lot about the importance of story in Haze but how important is a story to an FPS? Don't we just want to shoot stuff?People are always going to want to shoot stuff and we don't let the story get in the way of that. But the story is critical and the thing that keeps you playing. Haze has a story with a lot of interesting exposition up to the end. It has proper resolution at the end. FPS is a popular genre but we want to make sure players actually give a toss about what they are doing. We put your character in situations that you may feel uncomfortable with. This offers a good commentary on the reality of combat. Soldiers aren't disassociated with what they are doing and it isn't always black and white. Haze remains faithful to the FPS genre but we are trying to add something extra.Is Haze coming out on 360/PC? And why lead with PS3?We will be doing 360 and PC versions but we are leading with PS3.Our past experiences (they developed TimeSplitters on PS2) as a company makes us favour PS3 first. Plus if you want to launch a new game and brand then the PS3 is a good place to do it. Obviously on 360 we would come up against the juggernaut that is Halo 3 and we don't want to stand in the way of that. There must be some nervousness in the Halo community though. Obviously it well sell very well but making a third game is tricky. There are people who liked the first game and not the second and vice versa. But both sets of players will want the third game to be for them.What do you think of the Halo 3 beta?I really like the high ground map, it feels like a good place to be. But my personal experience is that I suck at Halo 3. Whether that's because I am getting old or whether I am playing people with 200 hours experience of Halo 2 I don't know.How important is co-op to Haze?The story part of a game like Haze takes up an enormous amount of development time. Environments or set piece can costs literally thousands of pounds to develop, just for player to rush past them in thirty seconds. This is a real waste and co-op is an incentive to revisit the game. There's a way that people play games which sees them lock themselves in a room until they finish. They will then go and speak to friends who may not have finished the game and can't relate to the experience. We want players to be able to experience a story-based game together and get a shared experience. In Haze other players can join your game at any time and take on one of the four squad based positions. Obviously from a narrative point of view all the story sequences are from Shane's (the lead character) point of view.How have you found the PS3 to develop for? What are its strengths and weaknesses?Its strengths are that it has a lot of processing power. The weakness is the processing power is obscure. But everyone is going hit this wall across all platforms as people aren't going to continue making bigger and faster single processors. The technology is not scaleable. Multi-core processors are the future and that is a big challenge. It is hard to recruit people with the right skills as you can't just pick up these skills off the shelf. Our best coders are the people who have learnt the skills with us.No-one would have guessed 3 years ago that the current situation would be happening with Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo. The order has gone topsy-turvy. Not many people predicted that Nintendo were moving in the right direction. The Wii is fun in a box. Even my mum wants one. But the games will come on PS3. It isn't going to fade away (check).Can you talk more about how players will get emotional involvement with this game?Throughout the game you will be put in a lot of uncomfortable situations that will make you question the motives of the characters and situation that is unfolding. Obviously there are issues with censorship if you take things too far. The act of putting something in a game seems to glorify it as far as censorship is concerned. Elsewhere there's a lot of NPC (non-player characters) reaction in Haze that is far beyond anything we have done before.Why has the look of the game changed so much since it was shown last year?The main change has been with Mantel (the dominant global corporation in the game) We realised that these guys were a brand and needed a stronger identity. Also we were scrabbling around for a way to make the weapons better and came up with the concept of Nectar. We also dropped squad orders too. We felt managing your Nectar state was more interesting then managing what your three squad members were doing.We've had Goldeneye in 1997 and Haze in 2007. Where will FPS be in 2017?There is something about FPS games that appeals to a fundamental biological part of people. Your whole body is wired in a way for the reflexes needed in FPS games. As for the future you can imagine helmets with eye look controls becoming important. You already get something similar for hardcore driving sims. For consoles the Wii is interesting. It does the job but you can see this is the first outing for it. No-one is going to develop an FPS using the Wii controls that sets everyone's world on fire. But as that technology changes things could get very interesting. It all depends on budgets and how far people are allowed to go. I was always a fan of the Thief games which put RPG story elements on the FPS template. Also Deus Ex. It bored me playing it but I could see what they were trying to do. FPS games tend to be highly technical with a real emphasis on the graphics so you tend to get less innovation. If everyone stopped their graphic whoring for a bit maybe developers could all try and look at something different.Will there ever be a new Timesplitters game? Maybe as a downloadable game?If you look at Xbox Live it looks a bit like an invite-only club. It isn't a collection of the best downloadable games around. There is some good stuff there but there are some really dodgy ports as well. But away from downloadable games, will there be a new Timesplitters game? I think so.Haze is due out on PS3 towards the end of 2007. 360 and PC versions to follow in 2008.
A couple of days ago at the launch ofFacebook's F8 platform- which lets users embed other services inside their page on the popular social networking site -GigaOM's Liz Gannes said that founder Mark Zuckerberg was "channeling Steve Jobs". It wasn't the first time somebody had linked the Apple founder with the famously casual 20-something. Such comments have made me think about Facebook, and whether it was going to be a new sort of Apple.What do I mean? Well, on a very basic level, the site clearly values design in a way that few of its competitors do. But that's just surface appearance: really the link I see is that much of Facebook's value lies inwhat it isn't- it's not MySpace. It's easy to see a sort of Microsoft v Apple situation by comparing the messy-but-corporate behemoth that is MySpace versus the "independent", smoothness of Facebook.On the other hand, it's tempting to think that opening up the site to third parties means that Zuckerberg is actually using the Microsoft model - build an ecosystem of partners reliant on your system in order to create a large community with a vested interest in its success. But I think the Apple corollary works better, because for all the excitement about F8, Facebook's new approach isn't about pushing informationout, it's about bringing it in. It doesn't create a solar system of planets which rely on each other to keep in orbit, but scoops everything up and dumps it onto a closed system; Facebook becomes my homepage, into which everything else feeds.What's the next step for Facebook? To become the biggest social network on the web? To steal MySpace's market away from it?If that's the case, then I wonder if there isn't something that Zuckerberg can learn from the successes and failures of Steve Jobs. Apple focuses its energies on users who are prepared to pay extra for the Apple brand; as a result it's never going to be #1, and is actually pretty happy and successful in that role, even if some users wish everyone would switch from Windows. Right now Facebook's owners look like they dream of becoming the dominant platform on the web... but it's a tough business. Social networking is increasingly becoming commoditised: for the vast majority of users, it's becoming a utility. Trying to make it the start page of choice is a big ideal, but you can't be everything to everybody.So Facebook is gaining traction with older users, those of college age and beyond (certainly a lot of the growth I've seen in the past few months is in the 30+ bracket). But will it start to look to the next generation of users too? Will they try and get the teenagers inside the site before they become too attached to rivals?Well, if Zuckerberg knows that part of Facebook's appeal is that it isn't MySpace, then he should also remember that part of the appeal of MySpace for teenagers is precisely because it isn't Facebook. The users don't much care that the site is owned by Rupert Murdoch; it is just part of their evolution on the web. MySpace is about teenage rebellion; ugliness and defiantly folded arms. Facebook is much more popular among those of college age and older - it's more grown up, and looking at it isn't like pouring acid into your eyeballs.However it's always tempting to chase younger people, since they are the ones with more spare time to put into pushing up clicks and traffic. That's great news for advertisers, but is actually less valuable than it seems. Facebook might overtake MySpace, but I don't see much point in it trying to commandeer the teenage market because it should chase value, not eyeballs.Being good doesn't always make you the biggest kid in school, but that doesn't mean you can't be successful all the same.
