The Metropolitan police have lost evidence relating to death and rape threats made on Twitter against the feminist campaigner Caroline Criado-Perez, she has said.The writer took to Twitter to vent frustration at the police's apparent loss of information related to the threats. "Great, and now it turns out loads of screencaps I spent hours sending to police seem to have gone missing. FFS," she wrote. Criado-Perezsaid on Twitterthat she was again being bombarded with graphic rape threats by online trolls and said police were "achingly slow" to respond to emails. In a series of tweets she suggested that resending a large number of screencaps would force her to relive the initial trauma she suffered. "Right, now I'm being expected to trawl through screencaps for threats from specific names. Yes that won't be at all traumatising," she wrote, adding: "What I can't face is having to go through the threats all over again to send them to the police. How can they not fucking have them."In another tweet, she wrote: "I can just about cope with threats. What I can't cope with after that is the victim-blaming, the patronising, and the police record-keeping."The writer said she had been given "conflicting messages" by the police and told she only had to keep one screencap per abuser to alert them, advice which they had since changed. "Now it seems that unless I have the evidence of all the threats myself, it doesn't count, nothing gets done. No one looked into them," she said, adding: "What also pisses me off is the conflicting info I was given. I was told I only needed to keep one screencap in order to alert the police."Criado-Perez thanked supporters, but reacted angrily to users on Twitter who told her to "ignore the trolls".A Scotland Yard spokesman said: "We are urgently trying to contact the complainant so we can discuss with her the issues that she is raising on social network sites, to once again explain our approach and tactics in this investigation to provide both answers for her and clarity. A huge amount of evidence, including hundreds of tweets,  has been captured by officers and thoroughly examined. This has been a complex and large investigation that has involved the examination of hundreds of messages sent on Twitter. A number of people have so far been arrested in connection with the complaint, and remain on bail."The MPS has worked closely with the CPS to ensure that what we are examining and highlighting for prosecution meets a criminal threshold. Officers have been in ongoing dialogue with the complainant since the investigation started. We are mindful of the truly hurtful and distressing impact that receiving such communication can have, however we must be sure to focus our efforts on the things that we and the CPS believe is a crime and can be prosecuted."
Don't be fooled by the suggestion that only terrorists, paedophiles and those with "something to hide" use encryption on the internet. Anyone who shops online uses it – though probably without realising that that's what the padlock symbol in the address bar of their browser means.When you see that padlock on a shopping site or bank site, or when you use Skype for video chat, or Apple's iMessage, or BlackBerry's messaging and email systems, or a host of others, your communication is encrypted. If someone breaks that encryption, your details – such as your credit card, address, and what you're buying – are theirs to own.Modern computer-based encryption uses "public-key encryption", which has been in use since 1973 – having been developed, in secret, by GCHQ. (It finally admitted its work in 1997.)Public key encryption relies on the fact that it is much harder to figure out the factors of a number – what numbers were multiplied together to produce it – than to multiply them to make the number. Quick, what two numbers do you multiply together to produce 323? (Answer at the end.) If you choose two large prime numbers, a computer can multiply them together easily, but it can't deconstruct the result with anything like the same ease.The key to public key encryption is thus to generate large numbers using numbers that only you (or your computer) know. The large number can be published online, and used to encrypt a message using specific and well-tested mathematical formulae. In effect, the large number is a digital padlock which you make available to anyone so they can secure a message. Only you hold the keys to the padlock, so it doesn't matter how many copies are out there. When you link to a shopping site, the creation of the secure link is enabled in the first place by that padlock-and-key process.But if someone can figure out the factors of the big number, they have in effect cracked your padlock. The difficulty of doing so rises with the size of the number: "brute force" decryption attempts to find its factors by slogging through the number range. A key's strength is measured by the number of digital bits it uses, and the encryption method. The old benchmark used to be a 40-bit "key" encoded with the RC4 algorithm; these days that could be cracked in moments by a standard desktop computer. These days, 256 bits or more (which theoretically should take thousands of years to crack) is common.While the NSA, GCHQ and other intelligence agencies can afford to spend millions on custom-built chips to crack encrypted signals, many hackers have begun to use the power of modern graphics processing units (which drive the screen on your computer) to crack passwords. The latest software can manage 8bn guesses per second – and crack passwords up to 55 characters long. Crack that, and you can access the user's account – at which point, encryption might not matter.(Answer: 323 is the multiple of 17 and 19 – both prime numbers.)
The new cheaper iPhone that Apple will unveil to a global audience on Tuesday is being produced under illegal and abusive conditions in Chinese factories owned by one of America's largest manufacturing businesses, investigators have claimed.Workers are asked to stand for 12-hour shifts with just two 30-minute breaks, six days a week, the non-profit organisation China Labor Watchhas claimed. Staff are allegedly working without adequate protective equipment, at risk from chemicals, noise and lasers, for an average of 69 hours a week. Apple has a self-imposed limit of 60 working hours a week.The problems were uncovered at a plant in Wuxi, near Shanghai, where Apple's first low-cost handset, dubbed the iPhone 5C, is being produced. The plant is owned by Florida-basedJabil Circuit, a US company with 60 plants in 33 countries including Scotland, and a turnover of $17bn (£11bn) a year. Jabil said it had uncovered problems last month and was taking immediate steps to investigate the allegations. Apple said its experts were "already on site" to look into the claims."It is the duty of national governments to regulate the conduct of their companies abroad," China Labor Watch argued. "The US government also shares in the responsibility for labour abuses committed by US companies manufacturing in China."Jabil has 30,000 employees at Wuxi, where cases for the colourful iPhone 5C are being . The majority are hired indirectly through employment agencies, the investigators claim. Local laws set a limit of 30% agency workers in any company's workforce to prevent the exploitation of staff.In order to be recruited, staff are asked to sign two-year contracts and pay significant sign-up fees, and are also charged to process identification documents, open a bank account for wages, and for intrusive medical examinations.The report, published on Thursday, is based on interviews with about 90 employees and evidence from an undercover investigator who worked at Wuxi for a month. It also claims that female workers were asked to take pregnancy tests, which would be both against Chinese law and a breach of the code of practice imposed last year by Apple on all its suppliers.Apple has made efforts to improve conditions in the factories where its products are assembled after uproar over the treatment of workers at the vast Foxconn factories, where iPhones are assembled.The Jabil factory arranges accommodation for workers in dormitory blocks where some sleep eight to a room, suffering disturbed rest because the rooms are shared by a mixture of day- and night-shift staff. The report claims the base wage at Jabil is 1,500 RMB (£160) a month, half the average monthly wage in the city of Wuxi. Only by working 100 hours of overtime a month can employees secure an income that matches the average.Because of the poor pay and 12-hour shift patterns "married workers have no choice but to leave their children in their rural homes with grandparents", the report states. Strict secrecy is imposedto protect the Apple products they are helping to create. Staff sign confidentiality agreements and undergo security checks on entering the plant and when leaving their work station for a toilet break."The factory provides protective equipment," the report states, "but some workers either fail to receive it or use it in the wrong way due to a lack of risk awareness and monitoring."Despite this, the mechanisms for protecting important information related to products and the company are mature and well-developed, receiving a lot of attention from management."Jabil said it had uncovered issues at Wuxi during an internal audit in August and was again sending a team to investigate.It stated: "Jabil is committed to ensuring every employee is provided a safe working environment where they are treated fairly, with dignity and respect. We take seriously any allegation that we are not fulfilling that commitment and are taking immediate action to ensure recent allegations are thoroughly investigated and, if found to be credible, corrected."Apple said in a statement it was "committed to providing safe and fair working conditions" adding: "We lead the industry with far-reaching and specialised audits, the most transparent reporting and educational programmes that enrich the lives of workers who make our products.Apple is the first and only technology company to be admitted to the Fair Labor Association, and we are dedicated to protecting every worker in our supply chain."We are proud of the work we do with our suppliers to improve conditions for workers. Our programme goes far beyond monitoring by ensuring corrective actions where they are needed and aggressively enforcing our supplier code of conduct wherever Apple products are made. We believe in transparency and accountability, both for our suppliers and ourselves."Jabil was founded in 1966 in a garage in Detroit by William Morean and James Golden, who combined their first names – James and Bill – to christen their company. As American companies such as Apple exported their manufacturing to countries with lower wages, Jabil followed, opening its first plant outside the US in Scotland in 1993. Operations have now expanded to China, Brazil, India and Vietnam.
Bitcoin dealers have told the British government that it should introduce regulation for the digital tokens so they can be used for new businesses and to promote growth.At a Downing Street meeting on Wednesday, smaller banks, finance houses and Bitcoin companies told officials that big banks are blocking the creation of business accounts for money remittance because of fears over financial crime.The meeting, attended by about 40 people, included high-level civil servants from the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills and other government departments interested in Bitcoin's potential, and more generally in how to encourage financial innovation in Britain.While US and German regulators have introduced some regulatory guidance around Bitcoin in recent months – with one US judge ruling that it is a currency, and the German finance ministry ruling it could be used for private transactions – there is no such recognition in the UK.Bitcoin is an entirely digital transaction system with no central issuing authority, but where each "coin" is produced by computers solving extremely complex cryptographic problems. They can be transferred anonymously, making it unclear who is providing or receiving payments.The supply of coins is limited by nature; about half have been "mined" since Bitcoin appeared in 2009, but that process will continue at an ever slower rate until 2140. The lack of a central issuer has led to wide swings in its value against currencies such as the pound and dollar – although in general it has appreciated against them.Tom Robinson, a 32-year-old entrepreneur who was present at the 90-minute meeting, and aims to launch a virtual currency exchange called BitPrice, said that the principal complaint was that banks are blocking the creation of new accounts for money remittances."I think it comes from the fines that HSBC got in the US over money-laundering recently," he told the Guardian. In December 2012,HSBC chose to accept a $1.9bn (£1.2bn) fine from US regulatorsrather than face prosecutors. US investigations found that a "blatant failure" in implementing anti-money-laundering controls had allowed Mexican drug cartels and terrorists to funnel money through the bank.Robinson, who set up BitPrice to enable exchanges between Bitcoin and currencies such as sterling, said he would welcome regulation even if it made transactions more cumbersome.The lack of regulation at present means there is no compensation for anyone who carries out a Bitcoin transaction and loses all their money through fraud or failure on the part of the enabler. That has not proved to be a barrier to transactions, but Robinson thinks that regulation would nonetheless have a positive effect.Concerns that Bitcoin transactions are in effect anonymous – because no name need be attached to the "wallet" receiving or sending the coins – could easily be overcome, said Robinson. "Anonymity might be something that has to go if it's to become mainstream," he said. "But in reality you can see where every Bitcoin goes through the system."That is because each is unique, and has to be verified by solving the cryptographic problem to be transferred. "If you cash it in to pounds or dollars, you can see who has made that transaction by normal methods."Robinson said he was optimistic at the end of the meeting about the prospects, but there is no clear timeline for implementation.
Mobile app Shazam has announced yet another milestone: 10bn tags of songs, TV shows and advertisements since its launch in 2002.Lady Gaga's latest single Applause was the 10 billionth tag, as the app continues to go from strength to strength following its expansion beyond music identification to the worlds of TV and advertising.The UK-headquartered company says it now processes more than 100m tags a week, up 150% on this time last year, with 350m people having used the service since its launch, and a current active user base of 70m people.Shazam also claims that its users buy more than $300m of digital music a year, accounting for around 10% of all music downloads. The app's music features identify songs playing in the real world, and provide users with links to buy them from stores including Apple's iTunes."It took ten years for the company to reach its first billion, ten months to reach its second billion and now, the company has seen user activity accelerate so rapidly that it only took two months to go from nine to ten billion Shazams," said chief executive Rich Riley, about the new milestone.The news came two months afterShazam announced its latest funding round: $40m from Latin American mobile operator group America Movil, following a previous round of $32m in June 2011 from a group of venture capital firms.Shazam is well-funded, but it is unclear whether the company is currently profitable. In its financial year ending 30 June 2012, it recorded revenues of £21.8m, but a net loss of £3.3m.Shazam has not yet published its results for the financial year ending 30 June 2013, but its executive chairman Andrew Fisher told The Guardian in July that "our year-on-year growth is in the multiples of hundreds of percent" in terms of revenues.Music has been the focus for much of Shazam's history, but more recently it has been working with broadcasters and advertisers to help users tag TV shows and ads – not to find out what they are, but to get related content and offers.Shazam had been used for more than 250 TV advertising campaigns by June, with a minimum price of $75k for each.Fisher told The Guardian that 54% of Shazam's users currently tag something on TV at least once a week, which based on that 70m active-users figure, suggests at least 37.8m of the 100m+ weekly tags are TV-related.That tallies with Shazam's claim that nearly 100 songs were identified in the same second as Applause as the company reached 10bn tags. Multiply that up, and you reach around 60.5m musical tags a week.
Americans are concerned about internet privacy, but they're far less worried about government snooping than they are about their online activity being monitored by hackers and advertisers.That's according toa survey of 792 internet and smartphone usersin the US by the Pew Internet &amp; American Life Project, conducted in July.86% of respondents said they had taken steps to remove or mask their digital footprints, including clearing cookies and browsing history (64%), deleting or editing something they had posted online (41%) and asking someone else to remove something posted about them (21%)."Users clearly want the option of being anonymous online and increasingly worry that this is not possible," said Lee Rainie, Director of the Pew Research Center's Internet Project."Their concerns apply to an entire ecosystem of surveillance. In fact, they are more intent on trying to mask their personal information from hackers, advertisers, friends and family members than they are trying to avoid observation by the government."Deeper measures to protect privacy are still used by a relative niche of the US online population. Pew found that 14% of respondents had encrypted their communications online, while 14% had used a service that allowed them to browse the web anonymously.Who are people worried about? 33% of people who'd taken measures to protect their privacy said they were trying to hide their activities from hackers or criminals, while 28% said they were concerned about advertisers.19% said they were hiding from "people in their past" or "certain friends"; 17% from "people who might criticise, harass or target them"; 14% from family members or a romantic partner; and 11% from employers, supervisors or workmates.Interestingly, given the debates around anti-piracy legislation, only 6% of Pew's respondents said they were trying to avoid their online activity being observed by "companies or people who might want payment for files you download".Meanwhile, the government and law enforcement authorities were well down the list at 5% and 4% respectively. The survey was conducted between 11 July and 14 July, well after the first revelations about the US National Security Agency's surveillance activities broke.Some of Pew's respondents' online privacy measures were taken based on experience. 21% said they'd had an email or social networking profile "compromised or taken over" by someone else without permission, while 12% said they had been stalked or harassed online.11% said they'd had important personal information stolen like social security numbers, credit card or bank account details; 6% had fallen victim to an online scam and lost money; and 6% said they'd had their reputation damaged because of something that happened online.Pew also found that 68% of internet users think current laws are not protecting their privacy enough online, while 50% are worried about the amount of personal information about them that's online – up from 33% in a similar survey in 2009.It may be tempting to see teenagers as the generation least concerned by online privacy, but previous research from Pew has suggested this is not the case.A survey conducted last year found that70% of 12-17 year-old Americans have sought outside adviceabout how to manage some aspect of online privacy, including 42% from friends or peers, and 41% from parents.This applies to mobile apps too. A separate Pew study found that51% of teenage app users have avoided certain appsdue to privacy concerns, while 26% have uninstalled an app after learning it was collecting personal information that they didn't wish to share.Pew's are not the only studies finding increased concerns about online privacy. Internet security company AVG – yes, it has a vested interest here – released its own study of 4,927 people across eight countries yesterday too.It found that 46% of respondents said they have increased concerns about their privacy and a higher distrust of companies and their ability to protect people's personal data.The survey also found that 69% of people felt technology would become more intrusive over the next five years, almost as many as the 72% who expect it to become more helpful.The trend can also be seen in the growth for anonymous search engines like DuckDuckGo, which said in July thatits traffic had spiked sharply after the NSA revelations, moving from serving 1.7m searches a day at the start of June to 3m a fortnight later.Finally, research commissioned by civil liberties campaigner Big Brother Watch earlier this year, based on a ComRes survey of 10,354 people in nine countries, found that79% of respondents were concerned about their privacy online.
EntrepreneurSir James Dyson has said the governmentneeds to focus more on employment opportunites in engineering industry, saying he cannot get enough highly skilled engineers for his booming company.He said: "We hear a lot about Silicon Roundabout, but companies such as Facebook employ 4,000 people whereas Caterpillar [the tractor and digger manufacturer] has 150,000. Companies like mine, or Jaguar Land Rover, are booming. I am recruiting 650 highly trained engineers and scientists now but I could take on 2,000 if I could find them."However British engineers have responded to Dyson's comments, saying the more could be done to harness young talent and keep it in homegrown companies.Electronics engineer Steve Russ said:Fifteen years ago I branched into remotely operated vehicles. I was self-employed and worked mainly for a small UK company. I designed and operated an ROV involved in nuclear contamination surveys offshore of Dounreay power station. The project was groundbreaking and very successful.Two years ago the company folded. I was basically unemployed and spent the best part of a year trying to find a challenging interesting job.Out of the blue I received a call from a recruitment agency which dealt with Norwegian companies. I now work for a multinational company from the Norwegian office in the oil and gas industry, not exactly what I was used to in terms of work but it didn't take long to find my feet and now I am project managing. ( The UK office was not interested!) I spent one year working in Norway and when I said that I wasn't happy spending so much time away from home they offered me the opportunity to work from home with a monthly visit to the office in Norway. Brilliant.I was amazed to find many UK engineers working over there who found it difficult to find a position in the UK.I think there is something wrong with UK recruitment. I could not get any interest in my CV from UK based companies. They seem to look for a person with the EXACT criteria for a post. If you have an engineering background and the company are prepared to give you a little time to settle in and given some training engineers can apply their knowledge to different scopes of work.I am earning almost three times what I last earned in the UK. The company operate a 'Zero Stress' policy.  I have longer holidays. Public transport is excellent. The working environment is fantastic, very relaxed and stimulating.I feel that the UK are missing out on homegrown talent. The UK have a long way to go to keep people and to see a flourishing engineering sector when engineers are treated the way they are in relatively low paid, stressfull positionSarah G:I left school and home at 16 to take up an engineering apprenticeship at Rolls Royce, I was the only girl out of 80 apprentices and I qualified as an aircraft engineer. However the mass redundancies meant that all 80 of us were laid off shortly after finishing. (Last in – first out rules.)I went onto complete an engineering degree at university in 1998 and as my dissertation involved air filtration when looking for employment Dyson seemed like a good company to apply to.Initial response from them and other engineering firms (the list eludes me now) was poor so with rent to pay I took various temping jobs and chose to stay in London.One of these was in the HR department for an IT consultancy where I dealt with the aptitude tests for their graduate IT intake; I took the test for a laugh and got one of the highest scores so they offered me a place on that scheme.I've been working in IT ever since for a variety of uk and international firms and whilst I'd like to get back to engineering there is little opportunity for it to match the benefits I get in IT; such as good pay, flexible working, flexible hours, etc.Dyson invited me for interview about 2 years after I had started in IT but I declined, they couldn't match my salary or opportunities.If James Dyson is serious about wanting to employ 2000 engineers then my best advice would be to start their own apprenticeship scheme. For me as a school leaver with average exam results but far better practically than traditionally academic it gave me such a great start in life, I learnt so many valuable lessons about how to behave in a working environment that one just doesn't get at university, for example when I got to university I was surprised by other students inability to work in teams, work to deadlines or any technical standard.I rate my apprenticeship far higher than my degree.He could try courting some of us ex-engineers perhaps?InthePayofPigswrote:For what it's worth, here's an engineer's view on the supposed shortage of engineers...Many engineering employers use recruitment agencies to filter job applicants. The agency staff are completely ignorant of science and engineering; they are given a list of keywords, and they operate by counting the occurrences of the keywords in an applicant's CV.For reasons of personality and motivations, engineers have traditionally been content with their lot, working away quietly and passively in exchange for a standard of living that is a bit above the median. They realise that they are subject to the same market mechanisms as other workers, but it is not in their nature to do anything about it. Instead, they let themselves be pushed around by employers and their parasitic administrators, meekly tracking their transition from human being to tool as it is reflected in increasingly dehumanising labels -- from "personnel" to "human resources" to "resource". The transition is complete when they start to refer to themselves as resource.Ermineasaid:I am an engineer, retired early by choice. I loved what I was doing, but the way I was doing it started to make me sick - performance management justifying my existence every quarter FFS, short term targets and the trashing of the big picture.So I applied the analytical skills acquired in my engineering career to how I could manage my finances to get out of this hell-hole. Right up to my very last project I loved what I was doing and added value. But not all the stupid management pricks and their business-school cookie-cutter fads that ran through the company like a dose of salts; ISO9001, Investing in People, Diversity Training, Managing my Performance, Justify your Existence - Quarterly. So I got out early. I think I added value to society over my career - I'd have been happy to carry on applying scientific and technical knowledge to making products and services better until I reached 60. But not with British management. I'm not going to look for another job with all the issues InThePayOfPigs raised. If Britain wants to encourage shite management and pay them exorbitants sums to screw up grandiosely and repeatedly, it will drive ordinary talent out at a loss to society and to the economy as a whole.Early retirement is great. I still dabble in engineering because I have an interest in how things work and how to make them better. But I'm not going to suck up to any stupid British management boss. I am 'economically inactive' though not a load on society.If Dyson wants better engineers he needs to grow them and train them, like a previous generation of British firms and managers did. Those forms sponsored people through university, they trained them on the job and in the specialisms of their products, and the management of the company knew what the hell the firm was making and what the issues of their business were. At your job interviews you would be interviewed by real people doing real things in the company, not recritment agencies and 'HR professionals'. The rot has been a long time growing in the UK and can't be changed at a whim. And it happened on Dyson's watch, looking at his age - he is part of the problem, not part of the solution.Add your view in a comment.
Earlier this week, the creator of indie crossover hit Minecraft revealed an impressive statistic – the game, which started out as the personal project of creator Markus "Notch" Persson, has now sold over 33 million copies worldwide, on PC, Xbox and mobile. This chunky combination of adventure game and Lego construction set has beguiled players for over two years, without a multimillion-dollar development budget, or blanket advertising.At first the success of the game was puzzling. Its procedurally generated worlds are constructed from hefty blocks, giving the environment and everything in it, a simplistic, retro look. Originally released as an unfinished beta version, players had to wade through software bugs and mechanical uncertainties, using the game's complex crafting system to build homes and contraptions, but having to share information on what worked where – there was no tutorial.But actually, that has been a part of Minecraft's beauty. It is an organic creation, not just because every time you start a new game the whole landscape generates anew, but because it has been developed in tandem with play. Game modes, new monsters, new features, new farm animals – many have come and gone, and then been tweaked and changed and put back in – often in response to user feedback, like one giant science lab. Very basically, there remain two different experiences: the Creative mode which gives you access to all the building blocks and "mobs" (AI characters) in the world allowing you to build anything you want; and the Survival mode, where you must mine for minerals with which to craft items and weapons, while avoiding exploding creepers, giant spiders and lurking zombies. In this mode, players have all day to explore and build, but when night comes, the monsters are abroad and you must return to your self-built house. Safe and warm."Minecraft is designed around a really compelling fantasy," said Chris Goetz, a doctoral candidate in the department of film and media at UC Berkeley,to the LA Timeslast week. "Play in the real world is often about exploring the unknown world around you and then returning home where you feel safe. Minecraft is a place where kids can work through those same impulses. It's like kid utopia."This is particularly resonant to me, and I suspect many other parents with autistic children. My seven-year-old son, Zac, was confirmed on the scale earlier this year, although in a lot of ways we've always known. He has a somewhat limited vocabulary, and finds noisy social situations like schoolyards frightening and confusing; he is demonstrative, but has difficulty with empathy. We have watched as his younger brother, Albie, has overtaken him on things like reading and writing. But he is funny and imaginative and wonderful.And like a lot of children with an autism spectrum condition, he loves Minecraft. From the moment I downloaded the Xbox 360 edition and handed controllers to him and his brother Albie, they have been addicts. At first, they simply trudged across the rolling landscapes, randomly attacking the sheep, cows and ducks that graze each Minecraft world. They would throw together weird hovels, filled with random doors and windows, huge gaps in the walls, bizarre jutting extensions, like nightmarish sets from a German expressionistic horror movie.Now, they construct immense palaces and giant inhabitable robots – usually made out of gold and glass. They are the Liberaces of virtual architecture. They explore the game's growing systems; they avidly download all the regular updates which add new features, new creatures, new narrative possibilities – they devour them all.It is a beautiful thing to watch, not least because Zac sometimes finds the world as we know it inexplicable. Guiltily, we have often laughed at his constant refrain of "What?!" whenever we talk about or point out something he doesn't understand. He jokes about it too. "I'm good for nothing!" he wails in mock misery when he mishears or fails to comprehend something the rest of us got instantly. For Zac, Minecraft represents an utterly logical yet creatively fecund world that he can explore and manipulate on his own terms. If people with autism crave order and control, Minecraft provides it, only within an environment that also allows and rewards discovery.Zac's experience is, I think, a microcosm of the game's true appeal: it is utterly malleable. Minecraft is not a game really as much as a tool, a gamified design application – an imaginative conduit that stamps only a fraction of itself onto individual projects. Recently, staff at the Mattituck-Laurel library in Mattituck, New York, built a complete version of their building in the game. It's not a mere folly, asan article in the School Library Journalpoints out:Each room of the Minecraft library offers a clue inside treasure chests tucked into the virtual shelves. Clues provide students with a summary of the plot, title, author, and call letters – so children can locate the books inside the physical library.Beyond this, Minecraft is now being widely used in education. Geography teachers get children to model real-life buildings or villages; physics teachers use it to teach simple fluid dynamics and mechanical properties. Minecraft developer Mojang works with an organisation namedMinecraftEdu, which distributes a special version of the game to schools with extra educational tools. The game has also been picked up by Autism charities, which run dedicated multiplayer servers where autistic children can meet up and create together.AutCraftin the US andAPTTA Craftin the UK are two examples.Meanwhile, the game keeps growing. Updates are regular, and a new "Mash-Up" pack has just been released for the Xbox 360 version of the game which changes all the landscapes, characters and items to resemble the sci-fi action adventure game series, Mass Effect."It's been a great team effort and everyone worked really closely," says Roger Carpenter, Minecraft's Xbox producer. "Much kudos must go to Mojang for being open to the idea and Bioware for letting us play with their IP too – there's been lots of input from all sides. It has been a long time in the planning but we wanted to offer something familiar yet new to Xbox; to add new aspects and grow the concept."A complete takeover of the game with another game is something that we all really loved the idea of and what 4J Studios has created shows considerable care and attention to detail to both games. Mass Effect was perfect for the first outing, a very rich visual style and importantly distinctive to the standard Minecraft look with a rich back-story on which players can fuel their creative sides."New Mash-Ups are expected to follow, and Carpenter says the next has already been developed. I know my sons will enjoy them, even though they don't know Mass Effect – it's just a new landscape to explore. To them it'll be like switching from regular city Lego to space Lego.This is the point. Everything is aboutpersonalcreativity. You want to build a scale replica of the USS Voyager? Sure, why not?Minecraft's biggest audience is the under-16s and Zac's enthusiasm for the world has taught me why. Minecraft and everything in it is theirs; it bends – unlike so much else in their lives – to their will. When I play Minecraft with Zac he gets to explain to me the vagaries and complexities of his saved kingdoms – the traps he has built, the hidden boltholes beneath looming mountains, the crops he has planted, the eggs he has nurtured, the places he goes, the things he sees. For children the world is still a flexible, plastic construct, and then the dogma and sense of adulthood drains in. Minecraft is at that psychological cusp, that liminal zone between imagination and reality, between revery and action. It has its own physical laws, its own stability, but for the player, the rules merely help structure the imaginative process. Everything is yours.Other games have come and gone. We've been through and enjoyed all the Lego adventures; right now Zac and Albie love Disney Infinity, which provides its own slightly more dictatorial toy box mode. But like millions of others, Zac always returns to Minecraft. Its blocky landscapes – which are minimal yet no less picturesque in their own way – present limitless possibilities to him. In our darker moments as parents, we wonder how much the real world will ever offer him in terms of opportunity and control. Like us, Minecraft knows that he is funny and imaginative and wonderful. Will others?For now, all is fine, and this game is something he'll come back to whenever we let him, I suspect for many years to come. In lots of ways that I'm sure will sound familiar to many thousands of fans, Minecraft is like returning home where he feels safe.
I'm off to university – my first year for a BSc in Economics – and I need advice on which laptop to get. I would like a decent, light, fast and portable laptop. I have recently come to like very much the Asus Zenbook Touch UX31A. However, the MacBook Air seems to be a better contender. I have never used Mac OS before.TemitopeIf you are buying a laptop for a specific purpose, then you need to make sure that it does the job. In this case, the best source of advice would be economics department staff at the university you're going to attend. You may need to run specific business software for some parts of your course, and if your laptop can't run it, then you will probably need to run it in the university's computer labs. This can be inconvenient.While I have no idea which programs might be needed, it's a good bet that your course will include Microsoft Excel spreadsheets, including programs written for Excel. Although Microsoft Office is available for both Windows and Mac OS X, I would recommend against choosing the Mac version. The huge gap has closed dramatically with Excel for Mac 2011, but it doesn't have exactly the same functionality, plug-ins may not work, and you'll find it harder to get help.This doesn't mean you can't buy a MacBook Air if you want one. However, you may need to add a copy of Parallels software, a copy of Microsoft Windows 7, and a PC version of Office. SeeExcel for Mac vs. PC: What's the Difference?at the Parallels blog. This works, though the Mac keyboard is far from ideal for using  the Windows version of Excel, and most of the keyboard shortcuts are different. You may need to translate them from workbooks etc using this very wonderful ExcelJet chart:Excel PC and Mac keyboard shortcuts side-by-side.As mentioned here previously, the best deal isOffice 365 for University. This supports both PCs and Macs –  so you won't need to buy Office twice –  and provides all seven major Office programs for four years for £59.99.Bear in mind that you will also have to learn to use Mac OS X, so I'd try to get some hands-on experience before buying a Mac. It's not hard, but there is a time penalty for switching systems.When it comes to the hardware, Asus has improved the Zenbook range since it first appeared, so now there's not much to choose. I think the MacBook Air has a slightly better keyboard, a much better trackpad, and better battery life. The Zenbook UX31A has a better, brighter Full HD screen (1920 x 1080 pixels versus 1440 x 900 on the MacBook Air), and it's a touchscreen, which you can't get on a Mac. However, I do agree with the UX31A Touch review atNotebookcheck: the extra speed of the low-voltage Intel Core i7 processor isn't worth the extra cost over the Core i5 version.Also, note that at this point, the MacBook Air has been upgraded to fourth-generation Core chips, codenamed Haswell, while the Asus Zenbook range hasn't. The Haswell version is the UX31A LA, but I don't know when it will appear. If you must have Haswell, then theAcer S7-392is a comparable aluminium unibody Ultrabook with a backlit keyboard. It's worth a look if you can find one.Finally, while all these machines are "light, fast and portable" laptops, the portability has a price, in number of ports and upgradability as well as in financial terms. If I were buying a workhorse to run spreadsheets – especially if running Excel under Parallels and Windows – then I'd go for a MacBook Pro rather than a MacBook Air. The MacBook Pro has a 2.5GHz third-gen Core i5 processor compared to the Air's 1.3GHz version, and Nvidia GeForce GT 650M graphics, for about the same price.Mac user wants Windows workstationI'm an architecture student and I've been using a 17in MacBook Pro for the past five years. It's on its last legs, and I want to use Windows as my operating system because some of the programs I use are made exclusively for Windows. I need a lot of space, memory, a good graphics card and something that doesn't weigh a lot. I've been investigating Samsung, Dell and Sony. The cheapest option is not necessarily the best.Kate CThe 17in MacBook Pro from around 2008 was a bit of a monster, weighing over 3kg, and Apple no longer does this screen size. Usually, 17in screens are used in laptops designed to replace desktops, rather than carrieds around. Choosing a 15.6in screen will give you more screen area, though dropping down to 13.3in – a big shift from 17in – will give you a more portable machine. Either way, the 17in MacBook Pro had a screen resolution of 1680 x 1050 pixels, so even a good 13in Ultrabook like the Zenbook UX31A (1920 x 1080 pixels) would beat that.It's usually a good idea to consult your university for advice on systems, but in your case, you already know which software you need to run. However, you have a trickier, technical question: do any of your important programs works best with Quadro graphics cards?Many consumers are familiar with Nvidia GeForce cards (your 17in MacBook Pro has one), but very few know about the Quadro range. These are similar in hardware terms, but aimed at different markets. Gamers value speed (frame rate), so if rendering is taking a long time, they want the graphics card to drop it and move on to the next frame. Architects and designers value detail and precision, so they usually want their graphics card to render things completely, even if it takes longer. Naturally, this comes at a significantly higher price.Buying a portable with Quadro graphics moves you out of the consumer laptop market and into the workstation business. Leading examples include the LenovoThinkPad W530series, theDell Precisionrange, and HP EliteBook models such as theEliteBook 8570w. Dell has aPrecision Workstation Advisorto help you choose.A key phrase when buying this kind of system is "ISV Certified". This means it has been tested by independent software vendors (ISVs) such as AutoCAD to ensure that their software runs correctly.Professional workstations are usually designed for power and robustness rather than mobility. There is at least one model that's different: theDell Precision M3800. Dell previewed it at the SIGGRAPH computer graphics conference asthe "world's thinnest and lightest workstation", and I think it's the first workstation with Ultrabook styling. It packs workstation components such as a fourth-generation Core i7, UltraSharp 3200 x 1800 pixel multitouch screen and Quadro graphics into a very sleek and comparatively light (2kg) package. I expect there will be a long queue for the M3800 when it arrives, unless HP comes up with something as good or better.Another exceptional workstation is theHP Z1all-in-one. Most all-in-ones are aimed at consumers, but HP's claim for the Z1 is that you get the power without the tower. The spec includes a 27in, 2560 x 1440 pixel screen, a choice of Core iX and Intel Xeon processors, up to 32GB of memory, and a wide choice of graphics cards. This includes four Nvidia Quadro cards from entry level (500M with 1GB of graphics memory) to high-end (K4000M with 4GB). Also unlike most all-in-ones, the HP Z1 is designed to be opened and upgraded very easily.If price is not a problem, you could pair an HP Z1 with an ultralight portable such as a MacBook Air or a laptop/tablet hybrid such as the Lenovo IdeaPad Yoga 11S or Microsoft Surface Pro. The Z1 would give you all the screen space, power and graphics capabilities you need, while a Windows 8 hybrid would give you an ultraportable laptop plus tablet functionality plus digitizing pen (sketching and note-taking) features.Whatever you choose, it shouldn't be hard to find something faster, lighter and much cheaper than your 5-year-old MacBook Pro. If yours has an Intel Core 2 Duo T9300 processor, that's roughly the equivalent of today's Intel Pentium B970, so most recent Core i5 chips should outperform it.
The Android version of the BBC's iPlayer mobile app can now download TV shows for offline viewing, a year after the feature was added to the iOS version of the application.Android iPlayerusers can now store shows on their devices for up to 30 days, watching them for seven days after the first time they start playing the video. The new feature will work on Android devices running the Ice Cream Sandwich and Jelly Bean variants of Google's Android software."This is because these devices are able to provide the appropriate level of protection for our programmes,"explained senior product manager David Berlinin a blog post."Our figures show this will mean 70% of Android app users with compatible devices will be able to use this functionality from today – and over the coming months we will be extending this to include new Android devices as well as some older ones."The BBC has faced vocal criticism from Android users since itadded video downloads to the iOS iPlayer appin September 2012 – criticism that will have been particularly sensitive given the BBC's public broadcasting remit.Last year,the BBC responded to these criticismswhen executive product manager Chris Yanda told viewers that the BBC had to "meet the security obligations we had agreed with our rights holders" when making video available to download through the iPlayer app.Today, Berlin claimed that the Android app has one feature now lacking on iOS: "Due to the unique characteristics of the Android platform, we have also been able to bring you the ability to download programs while doing other things, which isn't currently possible on iOS devices - so no need to keep the screen awake," he wrote.For now, the new video download feature will work on devices including Amazon's 8.9-inch Kindle Fire, Google's Nexus 7 and Nexus 10 tablets and Nexus 4 smartphone, HTC's One, Sony's Xperia Z and Samsung's Galaxy S2, S3 and S4 smartphones and its Galaxy Tab 2 tablet."You may have noticed that despite their popularity, the Amazon Kindle Fire 7 and Amazon Kindle Fire HD 7 are not in this list. We are currently working with Amazon to try to resolve this," wrote Berlin.The BBC iPlayer app has been installed by between 5m and 10m people according to public stats on the Google Play app store. It is also available on Amazon's Android app store, which will be getting the video-downloads update "in the coming days".Apps have become increasingly important for the iPlayer service. In July 2013,31% of the 242m show requests made by iPlayer userscame from mobile and tablet devices.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Free Forza 5 added to Xbox One pre-order deal | CVG UKMore enticements for gamers wavering between the next-gen titans:Microsoft has added Forza Motorsport 5 to its Xbox One 'Day One Edition' pre-order promotion in Europe.UK retailers GAME, Amazon.co.uk and ShopTo are offering the deal, which rewards Xbox One pre-orders with either a free digital copy of Forza 5 or the previously announced FIFA 14.Given the apparent demand for the console, and the alleged minor production difficulties, it's interesting another deal should be added at this stage. Still, Forza, like Gran Turismo, is one of those driving games that appeals to consumers who don't play anything else – a free copy may just tip them in the direction of Xbox One.Kojima wants MGS 5 characters to be 'more erotic' to encourage cosplay | CVG UKThis reads like it has come straight from an MGS fanatic's fever dream:Hideo Kojima has been instructing his lead artist to make some of Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain's characters look "more erotic".In a series of tweets posted on his feed this morning, Kojima announced that he would be revealing the full CG data for Quiet, Metal Gear Solid V's mute female sniper, on Friday to provide cosplayers with her full outfit.Yes, Kojima actually tweets, "The initial target is to make u want to do cosplay or its figurine to sell well." Okaaaaay...Ni no Kuni has sold approximately 1.4 million units worldwide, confirms Namco | VG247Good news for fans of beautifully crafted JRPGs:Namco Bandai has confirmed Ni no Kuni has sold approximately 1.4 million units worldwide. The figure includes worldwide sales of Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch, released for PlayStation 3, and Japan only sales of its Nintendo DS. "We are very proud to join our partner, Level-5 to announce that the critically acclaimed role-playing game series, Ni no Kuni, has approximately reached the 1.4 million units sold worldwide," said Olivier Comte, Namco Europe's SVP. "The franchise has been very well received in EMEA and as a result of its quality, has reached an amazing number of sales for a JRPG."If you haven't played it, if you don't normally play Japanese RPGs, please make an exception.Female fighters coming to EA Sports UFC | GameSpot.comCall of Duty isn't the only major games franchise to discover that there's been this whole other gender lurking around out there the whole time:Upcoming fighting game EA Sports UFC will feature playable female fighters, a first for any UFC game, Electronic Arts announced today.The "groundbreaking" initiative will be headlined by UFC Women's Bantamweight champion Ronda Rousey and bantamweight contender Miesha Tate."This is a great moment for video games and for Mixed Martial Arts," said EA Sports UFC general manager Dean Richards in a statement. "In our commitment to delivering the most realistic fighting experience ever achieved, we wanted to represent the full spectrum of talent and diversity of all the fighters in the sport, including women who have become an undeniable force to be reckoned with."Warren Spector's Commandments of Game Design | GamesIndustry InternationalA fascinating article from the legendary game designer:If the game director and producer have just one job that matters it's to ensure that the entire team heads in a single direction, staying on course throughout the years-long development process. To that end, I drafted a set of rules, "The Deus Ex Rules of Roleplaying."Good stuff for wannabe game designers and interested players alike.Seoul calibre: Inside Korea's gaming culture | Eurogamer.netAnother excellent Eurogamer feature, this time on South Korea's gaming culture.Korean culture is now café culture, an urban layer of coffee establishments trading in ambient cavities of westernism.Not quite as ubiquitous, but still extremely common, are PC Bangs: LAN gaming hangouts where 1000 Won nets you an hour of multiplayer catharsis. In Gangnam's Maxzone, overhead fans rotate at Apocalypse Now speed, slicing cigarette smoke as it snakes through the blades. Korea's own NCSoft, whose European base is but a stone's throw from the Eurogamer offices, is currently going strong with its latest MMO, Blade &amp; Soul.It's worth clicking on the link  just for the header and strap...You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Google has celebrated the 187th anniversary of the birth of English cricketer, John Wisden, with a doodle of Victorian gentlemen playing a match.The doodle recalls the design of the eponymous Wisden Cricketers' Almanack for which the cricketer is most famous for.Born in Brighton on 5 September, 1826, Wisden made his debut for Sussex at 18 years of age. He went on to become a combative cricketing all-rounder, playing 187 first-class cricket matches for Kent, Middlesex and Sussex, and earning the nickname The Little Wonder.Wisden was also an unflagging entrepreneur who started a sports equipment business and a "cricket and cigar shop".But it is his famous almanack, which he created after retiring from the game, which is perhaps his greatest achievement.First published in 1864, a new volume of the book, labelled "the Bible of Cricket", has appeared every year since with Wisden 2013 being the 150th edition.Its distinctive primrose yellow dustjacket still features the same Victorian woodcut of a top-hatted batsman on the title page.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamIf Google could search Twitter, it would find Topsy &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comOn Wednesday, the San Francisco company [Topsy] announced that it has now indexed every Twitter message since the first tweet was posted in 2006 — about 425bn pieces of content when you include photos, pages linked from Twitter, and other related material. (Previously, its complete archive only went back to 2010.)And the database is free for the public to search at Topsy.com. Want to see what people are saying about President Obama and the Syria vote in Congress? A quick search pulls up what Topsy's algorithm thinks are the most relevant results, factoring in retweets and the past influence of the tweeter. You can narrow down results by time frame, search for tweets in 10 languages, and see a graph with the volume of tweets over time and an indicator of the general sentiment, positive or negative.Big achievement. Even Twitter uses it (in the paid-for form).HTC's ex-lead designer may have leaked info to China's Chengdu government &gt;&gt; EngadgetRichard Lai:The alleged offer was that if [Thomas] Chien [HTC's ex-VP of product design] left HTC with some of the technology plus some money, then the municipal government would - through another company it set up - take care of the remaining costs for opening the factory, production and marketing. Previous reports say while still at HTC, the ex-exec had e-mailed some confidential Sense 6.0 files to external contacts, but there's no confirmation on whether those people are linked to the Chengdu government.Before getting caught, the furthest that Chien got to was setting up his Xiaoyu (meaning "little jade") mobile phone design firm in Taiwan, as well as Yu ("jade") in mainland China ahead of collaborating with the Chengdu government. Chien and his two accomplices - ex-R&amp;D director Wu Chien-hung and ex-design team senior manager Justin Huang - also used an external design firm to invoice HTC NT$20 million (about US$668,000, and twice as much as previously reported) between May and July for the One's design, when in fact the project was all done in-house.Selling secrets from a Taiwanese company to a Chinese mainland organisation would mark an enormous betrayal, if proven.Samsung's Galaxy Gear is a smartwatch like no other &gt;&gt; The VergeVlad Savov:There are a couple of significant downsides that temper my enthusiasm for the new Gear. First and foremost is the speed and intuitiveness of the user interface — or rather, the lack thereof. There's a tangible lag to anything you do with the Gear, while the swipe gestures are hard to figure out and do different things depending on where you are in the menus. Additionally, the speaker built into the buckle is too quiet and makes the old sci-fi action of conducting a phone call via your watch a possibility only in quiet areas; it also doesn't play back any music, it just controls output on your connected device. Most of all, however, I find it hard to justify spending the $299 asking price on an accessory like the Galaxy Gear. It's too dependent on its parent device for functionality — which will cost you a fair amount too — and, like all other smartwatches, fails to truly live up to the "smart" part of its name.Also important will be the Galaxy Gear's battery life. It does use the Bluetooth 4.0 Low Energy standard to communicate, but at 315mAh its battery is decidedly small. Samsung promises "about a day" of endurance from the Gear, but by the end of our briefing with the company, the cameras on most of its demo units were refusing to turn on due to the watches running low on power."About 10 hours" may be generous, then.BlackBerry has 'one foot in the grave': AirWatch CEO &gt;&gt; CIOBlackBerry slipped when it forced businesses to buy its mobile device management (MDM) platform to fully support BlackBerry 10 devices, according to AirWatch CEO John Marshall."It's one foot on the banana peel, one foot in the grave," Marshall told Computerworld Australia this week at the AirWatch Connect conference in Melbourne.BlackBerry's latest version of its mobile management software, BlackBerry Enterprise Server (BES) 10, supports Apple and Android devices. However, the company has not allowed multiple-OS MDMs like AirWatch to support BlackBerry devices — a move that has essentially forced businesses to buy BES if they want to securely support BlackBerry."By not opening up the APIs a year and a half ago with [BlackBerry] OS 10, it was the beginning of the end," he said.AirWatch is a (highly rated) rival to BlackBerry in MDM, but his point is a strong one: it means enterprises using AirWatch wouldn't buy BB10 phones. (Via @mbrit on Twitter.)Why airports are tracking your smartphone use while you wait for flights &gt;&gt; SkiftThe input will help to shorten [passenger] wait times, for one thing. And in the cases of airports like Copenhagen, which offers an app it developed in concert with its tracking program, the data will give travelers useful information about their own trips. WIth advance notice that security waits are extra long, for instance, a flyer can make the decision to forego a pre-flight coffee in favor of hustling to get in line.Perhaps most important to airports' financial interests, the results of passenger tracking will reveal where and how airport customers spend money amid the multi-billion dollar industry of airport concessions.Orders for 2nd-generation Nexus 7 for 4Q13 may shrink sequentially, say Taiwan makers &gt;&gt; DigitimesComponent makers in the Nexus 7 supply chain are worried they may see a large decrease in orders from Google and Asustek Computer in the fourth quarter of 2013 due to lower-than-expected sales during the third quarter, according to industry sources.The makers have seen steady shipments for the device in the third quarter due to the device's recent release, but expect orders to decrease sequentially as the Nexus 7 faces over competition in the tablet market, the sources said.Does pressing the pedestrian crossing button actually do anything? &gt;&gt; BBC NewsIf it's a busy junction, anywhere in the UK, you might see people who don't bother pressing. Ask them and they'll tell you it doesn't do anything.It's not an absurd theory. In New York, they are sometimes referred to as "placebo buttons"as in many locations they appear to have no effect.But in the UK does pushing the button make any difference?You'll have to read on to find out.Panasonic to retreat from consumer smartphones-president &gt;&gt; Yahoo! FinanceThe Japanese electronics company, which has suffered $15bn in losses over its latest two financial years, is staking its turnaround on a transformation from a consumer gadget maker to a supplier for other businesses.The architect of this turnaround plan, Panasonic President Kazuhiro Tsuga, has warned he would weed out any division that fails to meet a 5% operating margin goal within three years.Tsuga told Reuters in an interview that the company's mobile division was likely to lose more than the 1.1bn yen ($11.02m) targeted loss for the financial year ending next March. Panasonic's mobile division posted an 8.1bn yen loss last year.In 2001, it was the second-largest handset maker in Japan. Now? It's all Apple and Samsung.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
The government should stop talking up the opportunities for the UK digital sector and the "silicon roundabout", and concentrate more on the employment opportunities in engineering, according to the entrepreneur Sir James Dyson.The industrial designer made the comments as the company he founded under his own name announced a 19% increase in annual profits to £364m and announced plans to recruit 650 new engineers, 250 of whom would be found in Britain.Determined to push for even more innovation, Dyson said he was increasing the company's spending on research and development (R&amp;D) by 25% this year. The company already spends £1.5m a week."We hear a lot about Silicon Roundabout, but companies such as Facebook employ 4,000 people whereas Caterpillar [the tractor and digger manufacturer] has 150,000. Companies like mine, or Jaguar Land Rover, are booming. I am recruiting 650 highly trained engineers and scientists now but I could take on 2,000 if I could find them," he said.Dyson said that 50% of his company's £1.2bn sales in 2012 came from recently invented technologies, such as those employed in digital motors and cordless vacuum cleaners. The growth and success of the business was constrained only by a lack of skilled staff, he said."The government has done everything we asked for in our Ingenious Britain [policy blueprint] in the way of R&amp;D tax incentives and the rest. But we can't get enough engineers – 88% of postgraduate students in Britain are from outside the EU and they are taking their technology skills back home with them. We need [ministers] to talk up the opportunities in engineering at every opportunity."Dyson will be paying its new postgraduate British recruits £33,000 a year plus a £3,000 "golden handshake" to work at the firm's head office and R&amp;D base in Malmesbury, Wiltshire.The firm switched its manufacturing to Singapore and Malaysia in 2002 but said the advantage was not the cost of wages or equipment but the huge local supply chains that made it easy to source parts.Dyson has just spent £150m on a new high-tech motor plant in Singapore. The entrepreneur insisted he had moved assembly functions overseas because he had been refused planning permission to increase the size of the Malmesbury plant, although trade unionists said he was looking at the time for cheaper labour.Dyson said the company remained British and although the washing machines, vacuum cleaners and hand dryers were assembled in Asia, the exports were all billed through the UK.In 2012 the company paid £65m in domestic corporation tax although it now sells all over the world, with Japan one of its fastest growing markets. The firm's upright vacuum cleaner was becoming a brand leader in the US, Dyson said.He added that there was nothing stopping British engineering firms being world leaders but the key was to spend heavily and carefully both on new designs and products.When Dyson was manufacturing in Wiltshire, the company was making 800,000 machines a year but that number has now reached up to 9m.Dyson said he was also worried that new thinking was absent from the energy debate in Britain. He said he remained highly sceptical about the value of windfarms and believed the government should invest in new forms of nuclear power.
Apple's next iPad - dubbed the "iPad 5" by observers - will be significantly less wide and thinner than its forebear while keeping the same screen size, according to leaked parts shown on a US gadget site.However the new iteration of the iPad mini, first launched last October, is exactly the same size, according to the cases leaked to Lewis Hilsenteger ofUnbox Therapy.Hilsenteger says that the cases came from a trusted source who has proved reliable in the past. The finish on the cases, displayed in two videos, suggest that they are made by a supplier for Apple. "The parts have only become available recently and in very limited quality. They are fabricated by an OEM that delivers orders to Apple," he told the Guardian.The video for the 9.7in iPad suggests that the new model - updating the one released last October at the same time as the iPad mini - will be significantly thinner, and about 17cm wide rather than 18.5cm for the older model, because the bezel on the longer sides of the screen has been made thinner - as on the iPad mini.The cut in width means that the new iPad can easily be picked up in one hand, Hilsenteger says.It also has improved speakers in the base, and a more square profile rather than the "bathtub" shape of previous models.The parts provided by the supplier do not include the screen. There has been growing speculation that Apple will introduce a "Retina" version of its iPad mini, as it did with the original iPad in its third generation early in 2012. If it does, it could retain the older version at a lower price in order to grab a larger share of the mini-tablet market, where companies including Google, Amazon and Samsung are also competing.Apple has not indicated when it will release any new iPads, though last year it chose to announce the iPad mini in a separate event roughly a month after that for the iPhone 5. But while iPad sales have slowed in the second quarter of the year while Android tablets grew, it may choose to move more quickly to grab the market ahead of retail events such as the US's "Black Friday" around Thanksgiving at the end of November and Christmas.
Dick Tracy would be in heaven. The cartoon secret agent who had a "wrist TV", which he could also use to make calls, would on Wednesday have had three new "smartwatches" to choose from as Samsung, Sony and Qualcomm jockeyed for position in a space expected to be Apple's next target.Samsung unveiled its much-anticipated Gear, an Android-powered $299 device which works as an extension to a limited number of its phones – only two at present – able to show incoming calls and messages on its 1.63in screen. Users can also use it to make calls, just like Dick. It also has voice control, a basic camera and can run a Twitter app, plus another 70 compatible apps, the company said.Scheduled to ship on 25 September, Gear connects via the Bluetooth wireless system to the two other products unveiled by Samsung in Berlin: the Galaxy Note 3 "phablet" – which has a 5.7in screen – and the Galaxy Tab 10.1, a tablet with a screen comparable to Apple's iPad. It also needs charging each day if subject to "moderate" use.Sony also showed off an updated version of its SmartWatch, which costs $235 (£150) and is described by the company as "a second screen for your smartphone". It can control the smartphone's camera, accept or reject calls, run presentations, and run similar apps to those on the Gear.Qualcomm, better known for making chips that power smartphones, introduced the Toq device – able to play music, handle phone calls, and run apps. Promised for October, it has a touch-enabled colour screen that will be readable in sunlight, but no price – though the tech blog CNet suggested it would cost about $300.Smartwatches are a hot field because of mounting expectation that Apple will introduce its own at some point in the coming months – though the best established company at present is the Californian firm Pebble, which has sold more than 85,000 of its eponymous $150 smartwatches. Those connect to Android phones and iPhones, and show messages, calendar details and run some apps. The Pebble is the result of a $10.2m crowdfunding scheme from individual backers in 2012.While Apple has given no direct indication that it is working on a product – beyond a comment by chief executive Tim Cook earlier this year that "the wrist is interesting" – tech companies have decided not to be left behind in case Apple defines a new sector, as happened with the iPad tablet in 2010 and multi-touch iPhone in 2007.They are also confident that Apple is working on something, following its application for a trademark on "iWatch" in Japan, and the hiring of a former Nike executive last month.Analysts have suggested that wearable technology, and smartwatches in particular, could be big news in 2014. Google is also believed to be looking at the smartwatch field."Finding the right price for smartwatches will be hard. The sweet spot will be similar to designer watches versus Rolex or Swatch," commented Carolina Milanesi, a smartphones analyst at research group Gartner.Samsung seems to be optimistic about its prospects. The Gear "bridges the gap between the mobile device and fashion worlds to create truly wearable technology," said JK Shin, the chief executive of Samsung Mobile.But for now it only connects to two of the company's scores of smartphone models. And some early testers showed limited enthusiasm."The 1.9 megapixel camera is of poorer quality than a typical smartphone camera," noted Youkyung Lee, of the Associated Press, who tested it before the formal launch. "In addition, moderate use of the device will require a daily battery top-up with yet another charger to keep track of."She said that while some of the features, such as email notifications, were enjoyable, "after my brief hands-on experience, I decided the first generation of the Gear was cool but not compelling enough to convince me to ditch my iPhone."
In the mid 1990s, Crispin Hunt was the singer in Britpop band Longpigs. After they broke up, he forged a career in songwriting, working with artists including Lana del Rey, Florence + the Machine and Cee-Lo Green.He's also currently the co-CEO of campaigning body theFeatured Artists Coalition, which aims to provide a voice for musicians in the debates around piracy and new digital business models.It's fair to say he's not a big fan of Kim Dotcom, the former boss of Megaupload who was seen as a villain by music rightsholders even before hisarrest over online piracy claims in January 2012.Earlier today, Hunt spoke at the annual general meeting of British music industry body the BPI, providing an artist's view on digital disruption, piracy and relations with labels. And he talked about the importance of songs:"Songs that we are now being told are valueless, by self-proclaimed revolutionary freedom fighters, posing as Robin Hood. Self-interest masquerading as idealism, champions of liberty and free speech, complete with revolutionary beret in the case of chubby Che Guevara Kim Dotcom, hell bent on furthering his own corpulent interests, rather than some of our more corporate ones."The Che Guevara crack was a reference toDotcom's Twitter avatar, a picture of him spoofing the iconic image of Guevara wearing a beret. But Hunt's speech was about more than insults, as he called for the music industry to win a war for the hearts and minds of music fans as the best way to tackle piracy."One thing we can do, both as labels and artists, is strip Kim Dotcom of his argument for piracy. We can reveal him as the self-interested privateer that he is, and not allow him to hide behind the mantra of 'Fuck The Man'," he said.Hunt also called for "an effort to rehumanise music, to connect with the real fans of music, to educate the casual corsair away from a life on the high seas and offer better music on land" in order to "successfully rebrand the music industry as the good guys who give us great music, rather than the bad guys who exploit young talent" – while acknowledging that the latter reputation isn't entirely undeserved."I don't mean just some re-spinning of the biz only to revert to form once the battle is won, somewhat like caring Conservatism. I think we need an actual sea-change, a reinvention of the internal culture of music," said Hunt."The age of 'don't you worry your pretty little heads about all that nonsense, you just concentrate on playing the guitar, and what hair product you'll be using today, we'll take care of the cut', so to speak, is thankfully over."Hunt criticised the British government and, by implication, technology companies during his speech too, targeting moves to change copyright laws in a way perceived within the music industry to be more advantageous for companies like Google than for musicians and rightsholders."It seems extraordinary that the UK is considering relaxing its IP laws when all about us are strengthening theirs, in favour of a Silicon Valley future that doesn't yet exist, and that will have no content to provide if we can't safeguard the value of our ideas," said Hunt. "A case of biting off our own cashflow to spite our interface."Former Longpigs frontman Crispin Hunt is now a songwriter and co-CEO of the Featured Artists CoalitionOne of the arguments against strengthening copyright laws rather than relaxing them is the question of whether artists deserve to earn a living from their music.Or, at least, whether they can assume that the traditional music industry models should be protected, rather than knuckling down to forge direct connections with their fans, selling them music, tickets and merchandise, and using crowdfunding services like Kickstarter to raise investment to make their recordings.Hunt didn't attack crowdfunding and direct-to-fan commerce itself, as such, but poured scorn on assumptions that it is the only logical way forward for musicians."No artist with anything worth saying wants to live in a medieval world of cottage industry that Kim Dotcom and co prescribe, retraining as a plumber in the day and making bedroom albums, uploaded to an ocean of mediocrity along with the 10,000 other works of genius uploaded to SoundCloud every day, eking a living from selling CDs and t-shirts at poorly-attended gigs, peopled by an audience of well-wishing friends, who all crowdfunded their mates' albums, exhausted at the choice of 30 gigs a night to see in Norwich alone, and bored by the endless tours of ageing dads on stage who would much rather be settled down watching Later with the kids than donning Paul Weller-style Indie Man Hair and flogging around the toilets of Britain in a splitter, whilst some kid rips the life-work of their youth from HulkShare because he wants to spend his money on Gran Turismo 25."However, he spoke positively about the potential for on-demand streaming services like Spotify and Google Music All Access, while warning labels that they must be more transparent with their artists about payments from this new wave of digital music services: "The industry needs to un-mix its messages," as he put it."If as artists we are told that a stream is more akin to radio than sales, then the industry should do as the Beggars Group do and pay like radio: 50/50 to the artist," he said."Much of the independent sector seeks to behave with similar grace. The artists are happy, and a happy herd produces more milk. Beggars have been choosers, and they chose to do the right thing by their artists. And their artists, Adele being the obvious example, have done well, and are cool and happy to work for and with the labels they are signed to, with the confidence that they are treated fairly."Finally, Hunt called for labels to ensure songs are available to buy as soon as they are being played on the radio or streamed on YouTube, warning that "profile at the expense of profit is not good business", and having one last pop at Kim Dotcom."The public seem to care that their artists are free range, or at least barn-fed, but the public perception – fuelled by chatrooms of Kim Dotcoms, and not wholly accurately, is that bands are battery chickens," he said."And nobody buys battery chicken any more. We buy three barn-fed chickens from Tesco and feel morally acceptable… I suspect if we navigate the future not as products but as partners, the future would be brighter for us all."
Tech Weekly returns from its summer break with host Aleks Krotoski presenting from the Guardian's Florence studios (Aleks's bedroom with windows closed) and Guardian head of technology Jemima Kiss and technology editor Charles Arthur in our London studios (real studios with windows closed).On the show this week the tech team discuss the momentous news thatMicrosoft has bought Finnish mobile phone maker Nokia for €5.44bn. Also what will life at Microsoft be like now that it'sCEO Steve Ballmer has announced he is stepping down. And why the Guardian Media 100 power list is dominated at the top by tech and digital players.You can see the Media 100 list interactive here.Finally this week we focus on all things gaming with Guardian games Editor Keith Stuart back from this year'sGamescom 2013 in CologneGermany.
Google is15 years old today. To celebrate, here are 15 facts you probably didn't know about them.1.Google was originally called BackRub. Thehomepageread: "BackRub is a 'web crawler' which is designed to traverse the web."2.Google has acquiredan average of one company every weeksince 2010.3.The first Google doodle was a Burning Man symbol. Founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin went to the Burning Man festival in 1998 and added the doodle to let users know they were away from the office that weekend.4.Google hiredits first in-house chef, Charlie Ayers, in November 1999, when the company had just 40 employees.5.Ayerswent on to become the firm's executive chef, overseeing a team of 150 employees across 10 cafes at its headquarters in Mountain View, California.6.You can use Gmailin more than 50 languages. These include: Welsh, Basque, Tagalog, Malayalam, Telugu and Cherokee.The first Google Doodle from 1998 – incorporating the Burning Man logo. Photograph: Google7.Around 1,000 of Google's employeesbecame millionaireswhen the company went public in 2004.8.One of those millionaires was masseuse Bonnie Brown, who worked at the company giving back rubs for $450 a week back in 1999.9.The "I'm Feeling Lucky" button, which bypasses the results page to take users directly to the first result of their search, has been estimated to cost Google around $100m in lost ad revenue every year.10.Google hires goats.In 2009, the company rented around 200 goats for a weekto eat the grass and fertilise the soil at its California headquarters.11.Google'sfirst official tweetwas the words "I'm feeling lucky" in binary.12.Almost all of rival company Mozilla's money comes from Google. The firm pays $300m a year to be the default search engine on Mozilla's web browser Firefox.13.Google founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin own just 16% of the company.14.That 16% gives thema combined net worthof around $46bn.15.A new Google employee is known as a "Noogler" and a former employee is referred to as a "Xoogler".
This is it: the battle for the next generation console market is on. Microsoft has finally revealed the launch date for its Xbox One machine – it will hit retail in 13 major territories including North America and the UK on 22 November.It is an interesting and provocative timing. With Sony's rival PlayStation 4 console arriving in North America on 15 November and Europe on 29 November, Microsoft has chosen a more ambitious rollout right in the middle of its competitor's launch period. Neither manufacturer has provided a firm date for a Japanese release, reversing the traditions of previous console cycles where new devices tended to premiere in Japan.In a statement on the Xbox Wire website, Yusuf Mehdi, the vice-president of marketing, strategy and business for Xbox wrote: "The culmination of many years of listening to you, our fans, developing innovative technology, and partnering with the best game and entertainment partners in the industry has brought us to this point. There is still a lot more work to do, but the teams are making excellent progress and are focused on launch."Officially announced in May, the Xbox One console has had a rough journey toward its launch. Microsoft's intitial focus on the video-on-demand and live television capabilities of its machine alienated gamers, as did early indications that the console would restrict the sale of pre-owned games and that the Kinect camera device would need to be permanently switched on for games to work. Microsoft later controversially reversed these policies and since then has worked to improve the image of its device. The company enjoyed a comparatively successful showing at the recent Gamescom festival in Cologne, revealing a Call of Duty console bundle deal, as well as free copies of Fifa 14 for pre-orders of the special Day one edition of the machine.With both "next-generation" consoles arriving on shop shelves within weeks of each other, this is one of the closest console wars the industry has seen. There was almost a year between the debut of the Xbox 360 and the Playstation 3, for example.It is expected that the arrival of new hardware will provide a major boost to the $60bn a year games industry, which has seen software and hardware sales falling over the last two years. Interest in the new consoles has been huge, despite competition from devices such as smartphones and tablets. Sony has announced that 1m pre-orders have been received for the PlayStation 4, and while Microsoft hasn't provided figures, many stores have closed pre-orders for the machine, or have stopped guaranteeing that reserved machines will be available on day one.According to gaming news site Videogamer, UK chain GAME is now informing customers that the only way to now secure an Xbox One on day one is to pre-order the Call of Duty: Prestige Edition bundle – at £615. With shipments of the Xbox Oneallegedly reduceddue to poor yield rates of camera and disc drive components – the launch date may well prove to be rather meaningless to ill-prepared shoppers who turn up on the day.The big question now is, how will gamers, and mainstream consumers, decide between such closely placed competitors. Both machines feature eight-core CPUs and powerful AMD graphics processors, and both have built-in Blu-ray drives as well as advanced online functionality. While on paper, the PlayStation 4's specs seem more powerful, it's likely that developers will quickly work out ways to exploit the hardware so that technical differences become negligible.If it's down to price, the PlayStation 4 comes in at $399 (£349) while the Xbox One will cost $499 (£429), although the latter comes with the Kinect motion controller, while the PS4's motion control and camera peripheral is sold separately.It's just as likely, however, that games will be the deciding factor. While both will boast major third-party titles such as Fifa 14, Call of Duty Ghosts and Watchdogs, Sony has the platform exclusive racing game DriveClub, sci-fi shooter Killzone and cute adventure platformer Knack, while Microsoft can call on the hugely popular Forza Motorsport 5, zombie romp Dead Rising 3 and classic reboot Killer Instinct.However the competition is decided, we at least now know when it starts.
SwiftKey, a British developer of keyboard replacement apps, has raised $17.5m (£11.2m) in a funding round led by venture capital firm Index Ventures.The company is planning to expand aggressively in the US and Asia, with its chief executive Jon Reynolds moving to its San Francisco office to lead its business from there.The Series B funding round follows a $2.4m Series A round in 2011, and just over $1.5m of seed funding raised in 2010."In the last 12 months, we've had five-times revenue growth. By the end of the year, we forecast our technology will be on 100m devices, up from 30m at the end of 2012," Reynolds told The Guardian."We have revenue growth, so it wasn't a case of needing capital to run the core business. It was a case of wanting to invest in the future and to do more faster."SwiftKey's financial results for 2011 showed a turnover of just under £655k and a net loss of £1.1m for that year. Its 2012 accounts were only published in abbreviated form, but revealed a profit of £1.7m for its TouchType Mobile subsidiary for that year."Investment offers us three things - firstly, the ability to rapidly accelerate our product plans and bring ideas to market quicker," said Reynolds."Secondly, the resources to grow globally by hiring the very best staff in the UK, US and Asia and boost our investment in R&amp;D. Lastly, it brings us the expertise of a fantastic team at Index."SwiftKey's product plans include continued investment in its natural language processing (NLP) and machine learning technology, at a time when NLP is an area of focus for Google, Apple and other mobile giants.While much of this investment focuses on voice rather than text entry, they share core NLP technology. In 2011, Nuance – best known for its speech recognition software –acquired SwiftKey's rival Swype for $102.5mfor example."NLP has become an increasingly relevant area, and we're at the heart of that. At the centre of our business is the core prediction technology that powers the SwiftKey app - that's what makes our products different and there's more we can do with it," said Reynolds, hinting at announcements on this score by the end of 2013."We've always seen it as being about language rather than text input specifically – that's just the first problem we've tried to fix with our technology and approach. We're looking at further boosting our NLP offering and also looking at new ways to apply it."SwiftKey is also continuing its efforts to preload its typing app on more devices, following a high-profile deal earlier in 2013 to embed it on Samsung's Galaxy S4 Android smartphone.The company also works with specialist firms in the US healthcare sector to speed up text-entry for doctors, with a range of other clients whose identities SwiftKey keeps private."In the last year we've signed our biggest deals to date, and it's been a brilliant opportunity to integrate our technology into some of the most exciting devices around," says Reynolds."It's meant our innovations are in the hands of millions more people. When we started, that's what we wanted to achieve, we wanted to build something that would make communicating simpler and easier for millions of people."SwiftKey founders Jon Reynolds and Ben MedlockThus far, SwiftKey's business has been built on Android devices: it had the best-selling paid app on Android's Google Play store in 2012, for example."Android has been a major part of our history. When we first launched the app, Android had a tiny market share. As it's grown, we've grown with it," said Reynolds."It remains the only platform we could use to show consumers what our technology could do - none of the alternatives would allow us to replace the keyboard across everything you're using on your phone."However, Reynolds points out that the core technology behind SwiftKey has "always been platform agnostic", and that the company already has an iOS toolkit for its customers in the healthcare industry.US rivalSyntellia recently raised $3m of funding for its Fleksy app, which started on iOS as a standalone app capable of pasting text into other apps to get around Apple's rules, indicating that iOS isn't out of bounds for this app category.Earlier this year, Apple chief executiveTim Cook was asked directly about keyboard appsduring his appearance at the D11 conference in the US."On the area of APIs, I think you'll see us open up more in the future," said Cook, spurring rumours that third-party keyboard apps would be allowed in iOS 7. That proved not to be the case."We were interested in what Tim Cook said at D11 - we use and enjoy Apple products as a company, we believe we have great technology that makes life easier and we'd love to bring that technology to Apple users," said Reynolds.SwiftKey is looking beyond Android smartphones and tablets in other ways though: the challenges of text-entry are relevant to other kinds of devices too, from wearable technology like smart watches to the coming generation of connected cars."Earlier this year the analyst Mary Meeker saidthe future would be 'wearables, drivables, scannables, flyables'and she tends to be right! It's definitely a trend we're interested in," said Reynolds.The original idea for SwiftKey came when he was working in the civil service, watching colleagues do more typing on mobile phones, and struggling with the smaller keyboards that had been shrunk to fit smaller screen sizes."This challenge is even greater when you consider text input in cars or wearables," he said. "Accurate, relevant next-word prediction and autocorrection becomes even more relevant, so we are excited by the potential opportunities presented by these new developing product areas."
Microsoft's acquisition of Nokia is a natural step for the software giant as it prepares for a future dominated by mobile technology, but could it be too late to challenge the early adopters?Microsoft has long understood the upward trend of mobile technology and has continuously strived to create credible mobile offerings that will capture the consumer imagination and secure its foothold in this growth market. Its operating system is solid, but it is only this year that it has started to capture significant market share in the UK smartphone market, rising to 9.2% in July 2013, up from 4.2% at the same time last year.One of the key drivers of that success has been the resurgence of Nokia and the lower price point of its latest Lumia model that offers real value in an increasingly competitive market. Formalising the winning partnership with Nokia, then, makes perfect sense as they both look to challenge the stranglehold that Google and Apple have on the mobile ecosystem.But the challenge is significant. No matter how good the product, Microsoft and Nokia need to find a way to lure away the millions of iPhone and Android addicts in a field where brand loyalty is deeply entrenched. Success will not come cheaply.Their ability to get new offerings to market quickly that capture the consumer imagination will largely depend on how successfully they integrate the two businesses. Microsoft has improved its track record in integrating acquisitions in recent years, but the success of this £5bn gamble will largely depend on its ability to gel the companies quickly and ensure the whole becomes greater than the sum of its two parts, all set against the background of Steve Ballmer's forthcoming exit.However, Microsoft and Nokia do have a potential ace up their sleeve – the 2011 acquisition of Skype. As a vice-president at Skype, I was responsible for their global mobile division, before exiting when Microsoft came in. We all saw at the time the potential for Microsoft to fully embrace internet-enabled communications in its mobile offerings, but thought they would need to bring a hardware provider in to create an outstanding product.It may be that they are two years too late to make a difference, but if Microsoft and Nokia can find a way to offer fully integrated and optimised Skype video calling on their mobile platforms, they could prompt the next revolution in mobile communications, especially as more and more carriers offer 4G and LTE networks to support a great mobile video experience.Unsurprisingly, mobile carriers have been reluctant to embrace free calls on their networks, but they are slowly coming round as they understand the value of delivering exceptional customer experiences. Further, they are likely to embrace the creation of a new powerhouse to rival the hegemony enjoyed by Apple and Google, even if they have to accept a more prominent role for Skype in the offering.More recently than we appreciate, the digital generation switched their Nokia 3210s for iPhones. If Microsoft, Nokia and Skype get their offering right, we could see the mobile industry turn full circle. If they can do it, the $7.2bn for Nokia and $8.5bn for Skype will seem insignificant in comparison to the value they will create through this potential "third ecosystem".Russ Shaw is a former vice-president and general manager at Skype with responsibility for its mobile division and is founder of Tech London Advocates, a private sector-led coalition of over 250 expert individuals from the tech sector and broader community who have been brought together to champion London's potential as a world-class hub for tech and digital businesses
Google has withdrawn the newest iPhone version of its Authenticator app, used with two-step account authentication, after users discovered that it wiped settings and prevented login.The update appeared in Apple's App Store on Tuesday evening but users quickly discovered that once opened, it lost all the settings they had previously saved for accounts.Now the app has been withdrawn. Google has reportedly said it is working on a fix. Warnings about the flawfirst appeared on Hacker News.Two-step authentication protects email and other accounts from hackers by requiring an extra item of information for a successful login. As well as a username and password, it requires a six-figure code generated on the fly by the app - or else the user has to use one of a prepared list of codes. Each app-generated code can only be used once for a login, and expires after two minutes. The printed list has no time limit, but can only be used once.A number of people also use the app for other logins - including Dropbox, Dreamhost, Twilio, Evernote and Github - also found that they were locked out of their accounts.Re-entering details for the accounts is not complex, but can be inconvenient. Some users have suggested other authentication apps, including another iOS app,Authy.The update introduced support for Apple's "Retina" displays and the iPhone 5, launched last September. TheGoogle's error in coding for the update points to potential problems with auto-updating of apps, which will be an option introduced in Apple's iOS 7 software, due to be shown off next week when the company isexpected to launch new iPhones.Two-factor authentication is seen as an increasingly important protection against phishing - where hackers use fake sites to capture username and password details - because it blocks a login without the code, which is only available through a mobile phone.Hacking emails via phishing has been a key avenue for a number of hack attacks recently, most notably by theself-styled Syrian Electronic Army, which used it against a number of media organisations including Associated Press, Reuters, the Guardian, Financial Times, and Washington Post. Two-factor authentication would block such attacks.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.It seems Microsoft can't stop tinkering with the Xbox One innards, even with the machine practically hitting the factory lines:Xbox chief marketing officer Yusef Mehdi just spoke at the Citi Global Technology Conference and said Microsoft is now in full production for the Xbox One and producing in mass with plans still on for a November 2013 launch.About one month after improving the GPU clock speed, Mehdi added that Microsoft just made another technical boost by upgrading the CPU performance to 1.75 GHZ from 1.6 GHZ.A release date is still to be announced, but it'sgotto happen within the next couple of weeks.Bethesda: "The time for convincing publishers to support Wii U has long past" | GamesIndustry InternationalGI.biz reports on the latest episode ofGame Trailer's Bonus Roundvideo, in which Bethesda's vice president of PR and marketing, Pete Hines, voiced some strong words about the Wii U:"The time for convincing publishers and developers to support Wii U has long past. The box is out," Hine said, while sitting on a panel that also included Borderlands 2 lead writer Anthony Burch.Hines pointed to Sony and Microsoft's diligent and long-running efforts to communicate with third parties during the hardware design process as a better strategy for most developers."It's not that every time we met with them we got all the answers we wanted, but they involved us very early on, and talking to folks like Bethesda and Gearbox, they say 'here's what we're doing, here's what we're planning, here's how we think it's going to work' to hear what we thought - from our tech guys and from an experience standpoint."You have to spend an unbelievable amount of time upfront doing that. If you're just going, 'we're going to make a box and this is how it works and you should make games for it.' Well, no. No is my answer. I'm going to focus on other ones that better support what it is we're trying to do."This is, of course, a familiar refrain – Nintendo's relationships with third-party developers have often been somewhat distant. That's fine when publisher simplyhaveto support your hardware (Wii), but not so great when they can take it or leave it (N64, Gamecube, Wii U...).Heavy Rain originally turned down by Microsoft due to child kidnapping themes | PolygonQuantic Dream creative director David Cage was at Bafta last night, answering questions on his controversial career in game development. One revelation was that Sony wasn't the first company to show interest in his bleak psychological drama, Heavy Rain, which went on to become an unlikely PlayStation 3 hit:Microsoft initially aimed to work with the French studio after the release of Fahrenheit, Quantic Dream's earlier interactive drama launched in 2005. "They really loved Fahrenheit," said Cage, "and they really wanted to do something with us." Despite interest in the studio, Cage states Microsoft "got scared" over the subject matter of the game which revolves around the kidnapping of a child. "They didn't want the scandal," said Cage.Optimism around PS Vita is growing, says Sony | MCVMomentum behind PlayStation Vita is finally building, says Sony.The UK team has seen sales of Vita increase 100 per cent during the summer, partly thanks to the launch of its Mega Pack – which is a collection of ten Vita games, bundled onto an 8GB memory card, for £35.UK boss Fergal Gara told MCV that the firm will not forget Vita in the ramp up to the PS4 launch. The console's price was cut at Gamescom, and new games were shown, including BigFest, Murasaki Baby and Borderlands 2. Sony says there will be 900 Vita games by the end of 2013.Having just downloaded three impressive titles on Vita – Spelunky, Hotline Miami and the platform exclusive Killzone Mercenary – I'm using the gorgeous handheld a lot more than I was six months ago. And with PS4 set to make much use of its brother as a second screen device, demand should increase. A shame then that Sony hasrecently reiterated, that it has no plans for a Vita/PS4 bundle.Microsoft Talks Digital-Only Future, Kinect, and Why Xbox One is Worth $100 More Than PlayStation 4 |GameSpotGamespot has a good interview with Xbox senior director Albert Penello, which covers lots of Xbox One stuff – including the inevitability of an all digital future:"Yeah. It's going to happen. I don't think there's anybody in the industry; no matter what you thought about our original policies around DRM; I don't think there's anybody that doesn't know that someday, it's going to happen. Right? It's already happened on tablets and smartphones. It's mostly there on PC. If you look at what's happening with Steam. And just the congregation of gaming on Steam. It's already basically happened with music and it's on its way to happening with movies. So it doesn't take a big leap to say it's going to get there. For us, we probably said it was going to happen sooner than people were ready for it to happen. And I'm glad we've gone back to the disc model."This reflects whatPhil Spencer said to me at Gamescomabout gradually returning to the machine's original digital vision.Inafune says Japanese industry has gotten worse | GameSpotThe Japanese game industry has "gotten worse," according to Mega Man creator and former Capcom director Keiji Inafune. Speaking with GameSpot today at PAX Prime, the outspoken critic of the Japanese game scene lamented the state of the industry, but said developers have options to turn things around."Ultimately, it's probably gotten worse than when I was talking about it before. And that's a shame," Inafune said through a translator. "But there are options out there. And there are many options that Japanese independent developers can pursue to gain more control, to own their own IP, et cetera.""And Kickstarter is one of those fantastic options," he added. "And so, one of the reasons why I was interested in doing this Kickstarter wasn't just because potentially being able to connect with the fans, but also potentially being able to show other Japanese independent developers that there is a way, that there are options."It'll be fascinating to see if Kickstarter can take off amongJapan's doujin game developers.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Apple has begun the marketing campaign for its latest iPhones, sending out invitations to an event at its campus in California on 10 September.Featuring a rainbow collection of dots alongside four grey circles and the words "This should brighten everyone's day", the invitations are confirmation of the already rumoured launch date, and hint at the arrival of its first low-cost handset. Dubbed the iPhone 5C, the cheaper version of Apple's best-selling product is expected to come in a range of coloured casings.Apple is also expected to use the event to showcase its latest flagship model, the iPhone 5S. The company is holding a separate event for European journalists in Berlin at its Kurfürstendamm Apple Store, where the California launch will be simulcast.Details may also be shared about iTunes Radio, Apple's answer to the music streaming service Spotify, as it officially shows off the iOS 7 operating system on which the latest devices will run.Leaked photographs showing the iPhone 5Cin yellow, blue, pink and white suggest the budget model will be housed in plastic casing, with reports indicating its screen and insides will be largely those of the iPhone 5.With an eye on the Chinese market, where Apple has been overtaken by local manufacturers, experimentation with new colours may extend to the flagship model. Reports claim the 5S will come in gold as well the usual white and black options, and will contain an improved 13 megapixel camera with two LED flashes.Apple stores are expected to stock the new handsets from 20 September, although there are indications the new products could have separate launch dates.
So, it finally happened.That was more or less my first reaction to the news of Microsoft buying Nokia's handset business as I read it on Twitter during my morning commute. It's an outcome many have feared, some have expected and that no one was really able to prepare for.I was surprised to find myself also relieved – Nokia would no longer be kept a prisoner of its past, having to explain to Finland on a quarterly basis why it is losing the game in the handset business. The company has enjoyed such success in the past that the general public has not given up hope that Nokia would regain its spot as the No 1 phone manufacturer. That Finnish distortion field has now dissolved.It's hard to try and form an honest opinion on today's news. Nokia has surprised Finns in the recent years with multiple rounds of layoffs, a partnership with Redmond and now this sale of its its best-known business to the controversial giant Microsoft.Entrepreneurs live with constant change, and thus are usually able to see the opportunities in situations like this – perhaps more so than the public at large.Nokia, however, is such an integral part of Finnish society that it keeps on bringing out new sides to people, even those close to me. It's a subject everyone has an opinion on, possibly more than our national politics.It does have to be acknowledged, however, that Nokia and its staff have played a key role in supporting Finland on several levels. Much of our mobile industry owes its success to the presence of Nokia and its willingness to source services and applications from local companies. This has generated a huge pool of talent that continue to bear fruit for the Finnish technology space.Nokia has also supported recently successful entrepreneurs, those who leave the firm to start their own companies with enough money to set up for the first 12 to 18 months. It has been said more than once that Nokia's severance packages make it the largest early stage investor in Finland.While Finns are beginning to overcome cultural taboos around failure – and, in the case of some startups, celebrate failure with champagne – it would be madness to celebrate failure of this magnitude. It's a sad day to have to acknowledge that the once so mighty Nokia and its widespread handset business is no more.After the emotional rollercoaster on comments on Twitter and Facebook when the news broke, discussion and analysis became more rational; the consensus now is on the future, and what Nokia will do with the fresh cash in its coffers.Working in the technology field, I do believe this is perhaps the best way to reboot the company for the future, and I'm personally optimistic that the legacy and burden of its previous success is now gone and Nokia is able to start fresh and light.Perhaps a status update I saw earlier today sums up the prevailing general view quite well: "Nokia's catastrophe may be a good opportunity for Finland – we're a nation that tends to get stronger the heavier we're kicked between the legs."Antti Vilpponen is the general manager of cloud hosting companyUpCloud. He has followed the Nordic and Baltic entrepreneurship scene closely through his previous job as chief executive and founder of ArcticStartup, a media company profiling startups and technology companies in the region
A burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle saved an estimated $887m by paying Adblock Plus to show its ads &gt;&gt; Business InsiderPageFair is a service that measures how much ad blocking cost websites. According to its estimations, ad blocking cost Google $887m in 2012. Granted Google hit $50 bn in revenues this year, but that's still a sizable chunk.While many strongly value AdBlock Plus, which is downloaded 50,000 and 100,000 times a day for Chrome and Firefox, respectively, PageFair believes that its power is ominous. According a PageFair blog post:"Other publishers must follow suit and rethink digital marketing strategies and the way they interact with customers, or our web experience may change drastically in the near future. The concept of a fully pay-per-view internet is a frightening but potential reality."How Google can avoid becoming the next Microsoft, as told by an insider with knowledge of both &gt;&gt; QuartzQuartz has already written about how Microsoft veterans who left the companysee its problems, and what they thinkneeds to be doneto fix them. But the observations of one of the veterans we spoke with are worth writing about separately—because of their implications for Google, the company's most visible competitor. This person, who requested to remain anonymous, has inside knowledge of the workings of Google as well. Here are some of our key takeaways from talking with them.It's not a big risk, but still Microsoft was Google's size once too.How a killer game sucked me and my son back to iOS devices &gt;&gt; CNET NewsDanny Sullivan:I'd been testing the Samsung Galaxy S4 over the past few weeks. It's a remarkable phone in that, for the first time, I found myself comfortable going out with only that phone and not also my iPhone as well. I'll have a future column about this, but a great camera, video, and the large screen have made it really compelling to me.Clash of Clans changed that, however. I'm back to carrying either both phones or the iPhone, if I want to keep an eye on my gaming activity.There are things exclusive to other platforms, of course. I love making and sharing Photo Spheres with my Nexus 4, something I can't do with the iPhone. (Yes, there's Photosynth, but it doesn't work as well.) I can't do it with the Samsung Galaxy S4, either, as Samsung dropped this native feature of Android.If I'm headed somewhere scenic, I make a point to take the Nexus 4 -- so Photo Sphere is a kind of killer app, in that regard.Clash Of Clans is made by Supercell. Now see the next link for why Apple should be worried - unless it can crack the Asian market in a big way.Supercell plays with Android games launch &gt;&gt; FT.comSupercell, the Finnish mobile gaming company that tops Apple's app charts around the world for the iPad and iPhone, is "very actively" weighing releasing games for Google's Android operating system.The move would represent a big shift for one of the world's fastest-growing companies as it has hitherto focused solely on Apple, where its Clash of Clans and Hay Day games head the list for top-grossing apps from China and Japan to the US and UK.But Ilkka Paananen, Supercell's chief executive and co-founder, said he wanted the first mobile games company to be big in Asia as well as the west."You can't be global without being in Asia, and you can't be big in Asia without being on Android. I guess that's a long way of saying that we are very actively thinking about it," he said in an interview with the Financial Times.The not-so-secret recipe to disrupt TV &gt;&gt; MediumJeremy Toeman:Want to know how to "kill" the traditional TV industry? It's easy. Come up with a cash flow of roughly $70bn. That's it. Pure and simple.The thing about it, that so many people out there seem to not grasp (which frustrates me to no end, I must say), is it takes about that much money to maintain the rough production costs (and profits) for all the shows we love to watch. See, we all know that there's some perfect blend between Live TV broadcasting and an all-streaming/on-demand library (neither end of the spectrum are "correct"), but we don't know how to get there. Meanwhile, everyone wants to talk about killing/disruption the TV ecosystem. So let's talk about the cold hard facts of this world.A lot of people think it's just a question of hooking a TV up to the net. It isn't.Balky carriers and slow OEMs step aside: Google is defragging Android &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaAndroid updates roll out too slowly, so start releasing all the cool stuff separately. The hard part is making it actually work. But the first reason this is now possible is a little app that has finally come of age: "Google Play Services."Calling Play Services an "app" doesn't really tell the whole story. For starters, it has an insane amount of permissions. It's basically a system-level process, and if the above list isn't enough for whatever it needs to do next, it can actually give itself more permissions without the user's consent. Play Services constantly runs in the background of every Android phone, and nearly every Google app relies on it to function. It's updatable, but it doesn't update through the Play Store like every other app. It has its own silent, automatic update mechanism that the user has no control over. In fact, most of the time the user never even knows an update has happened. The reason for the complete and absolute power this app has is simple: Google Play Services is Google's new platform…The only features left that would require an OS update are things like hardware support, Application Frameworks APIs, and Apps that require a certain level of security or access (like the lock screen, Phone, and Settings apps).It's part of the Google apps package, which OEMs can't change. A neat solution to the problem of slow updating. (Thanks #GambaKufu for the link.)September 2010: smartphone OS forecast for 2014 &gt;&gt; IDCDemonstrating the problem of forecasting network effects, this comes from the time Stephen Elop joined Nokia:"As the worldwide smartphone market continues to grow at a strong rate, the market dynamics among mobile operating systems continue to shift," said Ramon Llamas, senior research analyst with IDC's Mobile Devices Technology and Trends team. "Longtime operating systems leaders BlackBerry, Symbian, and Windows Mobile are about to or have already launched refreshed operating systems to compete with recent newcomers Android and iOS. The latter operating systems have taken away both mindshare and market share from the old regime, and have helped propel the market forward.""Android is the wild card, deserving close observation for the rest of this year and the years to come," added Llamas.Proving that hindsight is 20/20 (or 6/6).Jonathon Fletcher: forgotten father of the search engine &gt;&gt; BBC News"With a degree in computing science and an idea that there had to be a better way, I decided to write something that would go and look for me."That something was the world's first web crawler.[Jonathon] Fletcher called his invention JumpStation. He put together an index of pages which could then be searched by a web crawler, essentially an automated process that visits, and indexes, every link on every web page it comes across. The process continues until the crawler runs out of things to visit.Ten days later, on 21 December 1993, JumpStation ran out of things to visit. It had indexed 25,000 pages.But he couldn't get funding at his place of work, the University of Stirling. A pair of people in Stanford University did. A modern morality tale for British venture capital.Microsoft and Nokia &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansSo, the acquisition solves Nokia's problem (running out of cash) and hence is a tactical move by Microsoft: it prevents the only significant Windows Phone OEM from exiting the market. It is possible that Nokia threatened to switch to Android otherwise (the relevant contracts are getting close to renewal), rather as Motorola threatened to sue other Android OEMs before Google bought it.But ownership by Microsoft will not of itself change the sales of Windows Phones. If anything, it will decrease them, since it prompts other OEMs to give up on it entirely. It will not make more developers make Windows Phone apps or more consumers buy the devices. And it does little or nothing for Windows on tablets. Something else needs to change.Nokia really was at risk of running out of cash. Microsoft is offering a €1.5bn loan through to January 2014.Unforgiven, continued &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dediu:In June of 2011 I asked "Does the phone market forgive failure?" Not much time has passed since but the answer still seems to be no. The trigger I was using for this point of no return when the vendor began making losses.The list at the time consisted of 13 phone vendors who either merged, were liquidated or acquired after this trigger point was reached. There were no examples of vendors who recovered. Since then two more vendors reached the threshold (Nokia and RIM) and a third will do so this quarter (HTC). One vendor (LG) may be recovering but Nokia has just been acquired and RIM has put itself up for sale. Some Japanese vendors like Panasonic have also called it quits since then. So the score so far is about 18 triggers, 15 exits and three pending.Only LG, owned by a bigger conglomerate, has escaped the black hole. It's not promising for HTC or BlackBerry.Google and Nestle announce Android KitKat | Nestlé CanadaThe creators of the world's most popular mobile platform have teamed up with the world's biggest food and beverage company to name the next release of the platform Android KitKat.Android has been developed by the company's engineers under sweet-themed names ever since the release of Android Cupcake in 2009 and continuing in alphabetical order until the most recent version, Android Jelly Bean.The news that the letter 'K' will be dedicated to Nestlé's Kit Kat will surprise most technology commentators, who had widely thought the latest version would be Android Key Lime Pie."We couldn't imagine a better name for our Android K release than the tasty chocolate that's been a favourite among the team since the early days of Android," said Marc Vanlerberghe, Director of Android Marketing…To mark the release of Android KitKat, more than 50 million specially branded Kit Kat bars will be available in 19 markets including Australia, Brazil, Canada, Germany, India, Japan, Middle East, Russia, the United Kingdom and the United States.The packs will lead consumers to the website android.com/kitkat where they will have the opportunity to win prizes including a limited number of Google Nexus 7 tablets, and credits to spend in Google Play, Google's online store for apps, games, music, movies, books and more.In 2000, Google turned down a $3m offer from Visa to brand its search page. Apparently this didn't cost Nestle a thing. And everyone knows howhealthychocolate is, and how obesity isn't a problem in the US or Europe.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
When Apple launched iTunes in 2003 the major record companies missed a trick. They never imagined a computer firm would change the shape of the music business.iTunes is now the largest music retailer in the world with 575 million customers and annual sales of $23bn. It is the main source of income for every record company on earth. Not only that, Apple built its hardware business on an iTunes foundation – iPods, iPads, iPhones. Not a penny of the sales of which were shared with record companies. The music industry swore never to make the same mistake again.Fast forward to 2008 and the launch of Spotify. Hailed as the ultimate counter attack to online piracy, it offered unlimited on-demand music from all the major labels, some 18m tracks. It was free so long as you were prepared to put up with an advert after every few songs. There was an ad-free version for a small monthly fee (£10/$10 a month subscription).How could Spotify sustain this model? Why were the majors prepared to license a service which so clearly devalued their product and would inevitably cannibalise the lucrative download market, albeit a market dominated by Apple?Well, Spotify can't afford it. The three years of published accounts to the end of 2012 show cumulative losses of over $154m and a further increase in annual losses on the previous year.Why are the majors prepared to support it? They've been 'incentivised' with equity and cash. The cash fills short-term holes and the equity is insurance against another Apple, just in case someone does decide there is a sustainable business there and buys out Spotify.On its website, Spotify currently claims to have more than 24 million active users but admits nearly 80% are on the free service. How long can it continue to raise money against astronomical valuations (the last one being $4bn) when its model means it has little prospect of gaining critical mass or turning a profit?In the meantime, Spotify is addicted to PR, its oxygen of growth. Favourable comparisons to Apple and positive reports of industry data showing exponential growth of streaming revenue are its lifeline. Yet what the believers fail to tell you is that published streaming figures include advertising revenue from YouTube, the great hidden free music streaming service.There's also much discussion about Spotify saving the music industries of Sweden and Norway. What the commentators don't explain is that a substantial proportion of this 'growth in revenues from streaming' comes from deals with mobile phone and broadband operators. It doesn't necessarily mean that all their customers are actually using the service and that the deals will be long term and sustainable sources of income for the industry.Let's put this in perspective. According to BPI annual figures, UK record company revenues in 2011 were £795m. Total paying UK Spotify customers at that point could be reasonably estimated to be no more than 250,000. At £10 a month that's total net income of £25m. About 55% of this is paid through to record companies, £13.75m - less than 2% of total industry income. Even by generously assuming paying users doubled in 2012, Spotify's contribution still only amounts to 3.5% of total industry income.Radiohead frontman Thom Yorke and his producer Nigel Godrich recently created headlines when they accused Spotify of not supporting or paying new artists – something fiercely rejected by Spotify CEO Daniel Ek, who drew attention to the increasing amounts his company is paying labels.But that's just the point. The money Spotify pays labels is not necessarily flowing through to artists. Also Spotify isn't paying all labels.Ministry of Sound is a different type of record label. Like others, we sign and develop artists. We also have hit singles - including seven UK No 1 records in the past two years.Unlike others, the largest part of our business comes from sales of compilation albums. We painstakingly create, compile and market our albums all over the world. We help music fans discover new genres, records and classic catalogues. Millions trust our brands, our taste and our selection. We give them great listening experiences at a good price.But you won't find our compilation albums on Spotify. Why not? Because its business model does not recognise that our products have any material value. It doesn't consider them worth licensing. Which would be entirely its prerogative had our paths not crossed. But last year we noticed something on Spotify. Users of the service were copying our compilations. They were posting them as their own playlists and calling them "Ministry of Sound". We assumed it was an oversight on Spotify's part and contacted the company to request it remove the offending playlists. It declined, claiming there was no infringement and it wasn't its responsibility to police its users.Several rounds of legal letters later, this dispute will now be settled in court. We believe we have a clear cut case. After 20 years and more than 50m album sales, the value and creativity in our compilations are self evident.Until now, we've watched Spotify's progress from a distance. But we can no longer remain silent. This so-called saviour of the industry and enemy of the pirates is allowing our compilations to be used without permission and refusing to take action when told about the problem.This is a David vs Goliath battle, but one which we have no choice in fighting. If we roll over and don't protect our rights, then we open the floodgates to others. We will not let that happen.It is time that Spotify's actions are held to account.
Dance music brand Ministry of Sound is suing Spotify for copyright infringement, claiming the streaming music company has refused to delete users' playlists that copy its compilation albums.Ministry of Sound launched proceedings in the UK High Court on Monday, and is seeking an injunction requiring Spotify to remove these playlists and to permanently block other playlists that copy its compilations. The company is also seeking damages and costs.Chief executive Lohan Presencer claims that his company has been asking Spotify to remove the playlists – some of which include "Ministry of Sound" in their titles – since 2012"It's been incredibly frustrating: we think it's been very clear what we're arguing, but there has been a brick wall from Spotify," said Presencer.A Spotify spokesperson confirmed to the Guardian that it had received the lawsuit, but declined to comment further.While Presencer is known to be no fan of Spotify according to industry sources, the lawsuit came as a surprise to the company. The Guardian understands that Spotify has held talks in the past with Ministry of Sound about licensing tracks from its label division, albeit without a deal being struck.The case will hinge on whether compilation albums qualify for copyright protection due to the selection and arrangement involved in putting them together. Spotify has the rights to stream all the tracks on the playlists in question, but the issue here is whether the compilation structure - the order of the songs - can be copyrighted.Similar arguments featured in a high-profile case in 2010, when the High Court ruled that the English and Scottish football leaguescould protect their fixture lists on copyright grounds. However,this ruling was later overturned on appeal."What we do is a lot more than putting playlists together: a lot of research goes into creating our compilation albums, and the intellectual property involved in that. It's not appropriate for someone to just cut and paste them," said Presencer.Playlists are an increasingly prominent feature on Spotify's service, which provides its users with a catalogue of more than 20m music tracks to stream.Spotify's 24 million users have created more than 1bn playlists since its launch in 2008. In August,Spotify launched a new "Browse" featureto help people discover one another's playlists more easily."Everyone is talking about curation, but curation has been the cornerstone of our business for the last 20 years," said Presencer."If we don't step up and take some action against a service and users that are dismissing our curation skills as just a list, that opens up the floodgates to anybody who wants to copy what a curator is doing."This hints at the wider context for Ministry of Sound's lawsuit, as its compilations business adapts to a new world of streaming music and user-generated, shareable playlists.The company has sold more than 50m copies of its compilations in the 20 years since it was founded, but streaming is more problematic: the vast majority of tracks on those compilations have been licensed from other labels."When we license our compilations, which include a lot of major-label repertoire, they do not grant us the rights to stream those compilation albums," said Presencer.His company does have a separate label business that signs and develops artists, and owns the rights to sell and stream their music. Thus far, Ministry has not made these tracks available to stream on Spotify.Spotify users have created a number of playlists with Ministry of Sound in their titles.The company's policies contrast with those of another famous compilations brand in the UK, NOW That's What I Call Music, which launched an app within Spotify's desktop software earlier this year.However, NOW's joint owners are major labels – Universal and Sony – who are both shareholders in Spotify, and also own the rights to a significant proportion of tracks on the NOW compilations, thus earning money from streams of those tracks on Spotify.As things stand, a Ministry of Sound Spotify app would only make money from streams of tracks signed to its label division. "Spotify only remunerates you for content ownership. It doesn't pay you if you're compiling third-party content," said Presencer."We've been asking them about this for the past four years, and have tried to engage in dialogue with them on how they would remunerate us for curation. They've said they don't have a structure for that in their model."The risk for Ministry of Sound with its lawsuit is in looking like a company trying to protect its existing business model – compilation sales – at the expense of a new form of music consumption that is appealing to a growing number of people."Our digital compilations business is up 30% this year, and our international digital compilations business is up over 100% this year. That's double and triple-digit growth year-on-year," said Presencer."That doesn't strike me as being an old business model. Just because something is new doesn't mean something is good."In ablog post published on the Guardian website this morning, Presencer went into more detail on that point, criticising Spotify's business model on the grounds that it has made sustained losses since the service launched in 2008.A quarter of its 24 million active users currently pay for Spotify, and whilethe company's 2012 revenues rose 128% year-on-yearto €434.7m (around £377.9m), its net losses increased from €45.4m in 2011 to €58.7m in 2012.For its part, Spotify has said it expects to pay more than $500m to music rightsholders in 2013, taking it to more than $1bn in total payments since its launch.The company has faced criticism from artists over the size of its payouts for streams of their music, most recently when Thom Yorke and Nigel Godrich'sAtoms for Peace removed their albums from Spotifyand rival services in July.Presencer confirmed that Ministry Sound is only suing Spotify, but said it is monitoring rivals. "We are looking at every service," he said."There are other services that have playlists, and when we have seen this happening – playlists using Ministry of Sound's name – when we have notified them, they have willingly taken them down. It's only against Spotify that we've hit this brick wall."
Risto Siilasmaa had been chairman of Nokia for 10 months when he took a call from Steve Ballmer that was to change the course of the company's long history. The Microsoft boss wanted to discuss the acquisition of Nokia's handset business. In the  months that followed Nokia's board and its subcommittees met 50 times to agonise over the decision, exploring every possible alternative.As the founder of a software company, F-Secure, Siilasmaa's background is very much in building businesses, and the decision to sell was not an easy one. "Being an entrepreneur means aspiring to build products that change the world," he said at an emotional press conference at Nokia's headquarters in Espoo, Finland, on Tuesday. "Selling businesses is not nearly as cool, but sometimes it is the right course of action."Nokia's board claims to have decided only recently to offload for a mere €5.44bn Europe's last big handset maker, the tarnished crown jewel in an empire once valued at €200bn. Others believe the deal became a foregone conclusion from February 2011, when the Finnish company hitched itself to the Microsoft bandwagon.The series of events that led to Tuesday'sannouncement was sparked when Stephen Elop, after two years overseeing Microsoft's business division and its cash cow Office software, joined Nokia in 2010. Several months later a memo leaked in which Elop famously compared his company to a man standing on the burning platform of an oil rig, faced with jumping into the icy waters of the North Sea to escape the flames.Days later, Nokia announced it would give up developing its Symbian software platform in-house, and adopt Microsoft's Windows Phone operating system instead. The incentive, from Microsoft, was a badly needed cash injection of $250m every three months to spend on advertising and marketing."It's been clear from the very beginning when Elop left Microsoft and went to Nokia and did the deal for Windows Phone that it made sense for both of those companies to come together," says Ted Schadler, an analyst at Forrester Research.Elop will now join Microsoft to run its devices division, and is now the heir apparent at the company. With Ballmer having announced his resignation less than two weeks ago, after 33 years with Microsoft, the responsibility for making the deal work will fall to his successor.Microsoft now has a chief executive in waiting, joining from a business bought by a chief executive waiting to exit. Bill Gates, as chairman, remains the power behind the throne but has made no public pronouncements on recent events, preferring to use interviews to discuss his charitable work. These are unconventional ways to manage a $262bn multinational, and Microsoft's stockmarket value fell 6% on Tuesday."Bill Gates is an absent presence," says André Spicer, professor of organisational behaviour at Cass Business School. "It seems his interests are largely in other areas rather than running the Microsoft business."Microsoft is projecting the Nokia merger will propel it to a 15% global smartphone market share by 2018, generating $45bn a year in revenues. At present the Windows Phone operating system is used in a mere 3% of smartphones.The deal will bring 32,000 Nokia staff onto the Microsoft payroll, 18,000 of them working directly in manufacturing, and is intended to rescue Microsoft from the oblivion it faces if its engineers cannot keep pace with the technical innovations at Google and Apple. Apple designs phones as well as the software they run on, Google has Android and now Motorola, and Microsoft will have Nokia to transform it into a major hardware maker.Spicer warns this will be difficult to achieve: "There is a huge clash of cultures, not just between a software and a hardware maker, but between Finnish and American culture. Most acquisitions destroy value for shareholders over the longer term. The big reason companies engage in this activity is executive hubris and you see this very much at Ballmer's tenure at Microsoft. He has engaged in wave after wave of acquisitions and often failed innovation."Ballmer has set Microsoft on a course which he will not be responsible for executing. He will be gone within a year, and without a clear leader observers say a power vacuum could form at Microsoft, into which activist investors will enthusiastically step.The board has already tried to neutralise one potential attacker. ValueAct, the hedge fund run by Jeffrey Ubben, has been offered a seat on the board in exchange for promising not to organise a shareholder revolt, or to publicly "attack" or "disparage" the company.But ValueAct's preferred strategy for Microsoft is that it abandons the consumer market, where competition from Apple and Google is too intense, in order to concentrate on business clients. By Microsoft's own admission, ValueAct was not warned of the Nokia acquisition.Speaking at a town hall style staff gathering in July, Ballmer encapsulated Microsoft's challenge: "We are in the most competitive industry trying to do the most ambitious things of any company on the planet."
For a brief time, as mobile phones turned from curiosity to everyday essential, Nokia was number one. The products of a firm from a small Finnish town were world beaters. But Nokia's astonishing global success has slipped away as fast as the currents of the Tammerkoski rapids, site of the pulp mill where the company traces its roots.The firm that started at the Tampere mill in 1865 took its name from a second mill built in nearby Nokia six years later. The company expanded into rubber, renowned for its wellies, before heading via cables and electronics towards what would become its defining product with the launch of its first radio telephone company in 1979.Three decades ago, in mobile prehistory when a pan-Scandinavian cellular network was being developed, Nokia came up first with phones for cars. Designing new models that stretched the definition of portability a little less, by 1987 its Mobira Cityman could be claimed as a handheld. Weighing 800g and costing 24,000 Finnish marks (about £3,400), the Cityman was the trademark of 1980s City yuppies and got a publicity coup when the Soviet leader, Mikhail Gorbachev, was photographed in Helsinki calling a minister in Moscow on Nokia's device – swiftly nicknamed the Gorba.In technology as in superpower politics, Finland was playing host to rapid changes in the world. In 1991 it was a Nokia phone that was used by Finland's prime minister to make the world's first second generation GSM call – a shift to spark Nokia's ascendancy. Shedding its non-telecoms divisions, the company focused on pushing its first digital handheld, the Nokia 1011.But the model it launched in 1994 would surf the wave of mass demand for this new technology. Nokia had set a sales target of 400,000 for its 2100 series; it went on to sell 20m of the handsets worldwide. This phone, too, was the first to carry the ringtone that would become carved into a billion eardrums: the signature duh-duh-durrr-duh plucked from a classical Spanish guitar waltz.Within four years Nokia had become the world leader in the mobile phone market. The business was valued at £200bn and its growth was accounting for one quarter of the entire nation's GDP growth. By 2001 it had developed new models that featured rudimentary web access and built-in cameras, and its annual turnover had risen fivefold to €31bn.But at the apparent height of success, as new opportunities were foreseen with the launch of 3G networks, Nokia gave the first hint that the future might not be so bright. It issued a shock profits warning, blaming a slowdown in the market, and announced plans to cut 1,000 jobs.By 2004 the firm admitted it was losing market share to rivals, although it remained ahead of the pack. The sale of its billionth phone in Nigeria the following year underlined the global reach it had achieved.Trouble was around the corner. A product recall affecting up to 46m handsets in 2007 dented its reputation. Yet the factor that would topple Nokia so spectacularly was not in its own factories, but Apple's. The launch of the iPhone made Nokia's conventional phones suddenly look as dated as the Gorba.Nokia profits slumped while iPhone sales boomed. Financial crisis compounded its woes: more job cuts followed. Nokia bosses admitted they had been too slow to respond to the new technology. In 2009 profits turned to losses.With Samsung and Google's Android also menacing, Nokia called in a first non-Finnish chief executive to turn things round, installing former Microsoft man Stephen Elop at the helm.Elop could not deliver good news. Instead, he issued a stark warning to the staff: "We are standing on a burning platform." A first strategic partnership with Microsoft was announced, even as takeover talk was denied. Despite launching new smartphones, Nokia was leapfrogged by Samsung and Apple in the sector.By 2012 annual losses topped £1bn, smartphone manufacturing moved to Asia and Nokia prepared to close its last factory in Finland. While Microsoft insisted that its€5.44bn (£4.6bn) purchase of Nokiadid not mean the end for Finland's R&amp;D facility – and the rump of the firm will continue as a significant telecoms equipment business – the years where Nokia phones underpinned the nation's economy are now just more water under the bridge.
Asone commenter and former Nokia employee said:&quot;it seemed that it would last forever&quot;.There was a time, somewhere around the late 90s and early 00s, when it felt like everyone I knew owned a Nokia phone. My personal attachment story was being so wedded to my 3310 that I actually ran after someone who mugged it off me to get it back (not recommended - but I did get it back). It was the handsetdu jourreplacing the chunky looking 3210 which in turn had ripped the mobile phone market out of the hands of Sony Ericsson and Siemens -becoming world leader in the mobile phone market. Just take a look at some of the beat-up Nokia handsets fromour Witness assignment on &apos;old tech&apos;to find how beloved the old models were, andgo back in time with our gallery of Nokia handsets.So what happened? Some will cite Apple, Samsung and strong competition in the smartphone market. AsCharles Arther notes in this articlethe company is strong in the feature phone business but has seen its size of the market slump for handsets.According to the report the new deal &quot;will probably mean that the Nokia brand disappearing from handsets in the next decade, ending over 30 years&apos; history in the business.&quot; Some commenters from Finland said the company once signified Europe as a key player in the tech market - will this title now be stripped?So what can we expect for the future of handsets and what were our favourites from a decade now long gone? Add your thoughts in a comment on this open thread.P-Ride03 September 2013 11:14amThere will be some great handsets being made by Microsoft in the coming years. Nokia's build quality remains excellent; and the Windows Phone ecosystem really is attractive and pleasant to use.However, we no longer live in a handset-driven market. We live in a world of ecosystems. Handset buyers are motivated by the ability to use popular apps/services; and developers are only motivated to develop these for a platform, by a healthy number of potential customers.Bit of a catch 22. Can Microsoft break this cycle?My NokiaMostly switched off, as I don&#x27;t do mobile telephones.  But like the fact that I can actually hold it in my hand properly. It is perfectly incapable of receiving or sending pictures but can make and receive telephone calls and send (letter) texts.  Just what a mobile telephone is supposed to do: Help out in an emergency.If work forced a mobile phone onto me, I would be devastated.Sent viaGuardianWitnessByAlex Keel8 July 2013, 19:37
Microsoft's purchase of Nokia's handset business, along with a long-term licence of its patent portfolio and for its Here maps products, has sent shockwaves through the industry.What everyone wants to know is: what does it mean? There's no single answer to that, because it depends where you stand.So what does this deal mean for …Microsoft?This is the second handset business Microsoft has bought. The first was Danger, in February 2008 for $500m (£322m). It had made a phone, the Hiptop, which was used by celebrities such as Paris Hilton. Microsoft screwed up the acquisition, alienating the Danger staff by forcing a rewrite of the software using its own frameworks and crushing them through bureaucracy. Eventually they produced the Kin – a phone so horribly compromised it was withdrawn from sale in just 42 days.Now Microsoft is getting hold of a phone company with one of the best supply chains in the world, and access to a name known around the world - though it only acquires the Lumia and Asha brands (it's licensing the Nokia brand for handsets).For a company that is trying to turn itself into a direct rival to Apple and Google, it has completed a key step: like those two, it will from next year own a handset business. (Google has Motorola, bought for $12.5bn in 2011.)The problem will be integrating the businesses while not disrupting its function; making sure key staff are not weighed down by bureaucracy; and pushing into big "enterprise" businesses which can and do purchase thousands of devices at once. Nokia had already been working on building tablets; Microsoft's gigantic cash reserves mean it can do that too.ForStephen Elop, it means a position just outside the chief executive's door; and Steve Ballmer is due to depart within 12 months. His experience running a hardware business puts him well ahead of almost everyone else inside Microsoft. ForJulie Larson-Green, head of the Windows division, it is a setback to her ambitions.The big problem for Microsoft is that by taking Nokia's Windows Phone business under its wing, it will alienate the few companies outside Nokia selling phones with its software. But as they were only 13% of sales, it clearly considers that a risk worth taking.Nokia?The remaining divisions – Location &amp; Services (which provides HERE maps) and Nokia Siemens Networks – are barely profitable. Without the handset business, Nokia will shrink to roughly half its present size. The maps business is expensive: updating maps is a constant cost with little reward, and if Nokia does not have a handset business to feed, there's little benefit in running it. There must be a question over its future.For NSN, which makes mobile infrastructure, the challenges are equally great. China's Huawei is a key threat in every market outside the US and Australia (which are suspicious of its links to the Chinese government), and even without that threat, it has to battle Sweden's Ericsson for business. NSN is profitable, barely, and will have to hope that it can benefit from some of the cash Vodafone is pouring into its network after selling its 45% stake in Verizon Wireless to Verizon Communications.It also brings down the curtain on over 140 years as an independent, self-sustaining business. But Nokia is a survivor: "it's in the company DNA," as one of its spokespeople said a while ago.BlackBerry?One suspects that BlackBerry's management tried to interest Microsoft in buying it – for its patents, technology and deep enterprise penetration, banks and governments use BlackBerry – and failed.The fact that Microsoft has chosen to go with Nokia is very bad news for BlackBerry: it now has no buyer of last resort, which means it will have to try to go it alone – with a loss-making handset business, which it may dump in favour of becoming just a services and software company – or seek a distress buyer. But no Chinese company would be allowed to buy it on security grounds.That means that the clock is ticking for BlackBerry. "It might not be a slow death," one analyst mused to me a couple of days ago, before this news broke. "Perhaps it'll just be a single shot to the head."An outside chance – depending on how seriously it takes its ambitions for big business contracts – would be for Apple to buy it. But it's unlikely.Apple?With expectation high that Apple will announce new iPhones next week, the news that Nokia has fallen into Microsoft's arm looks like the final act of the destruction that has been playing out since the first iPhone was announced in 2007.But being bought by Microsoft means Nokia has a new source of plentiful cash, with which it will renew its attempts to interest both consumers and businesses. Apple has been successful with both – but the changing dynamics of the smartphone market, with fewer high-end buyers, are expected to force it to offer cheaper phones next week. Nokia is strong there – but buyers don't like the lack of apps on Windows Phone.Similarly in businesses, Windows Phone still lacks a number of security elements required by businesses – but Apple has it. (The Pentagon has approved iOS 6 for use on low-grade networks.) Apple has a lead – but Microsoft will aim to catch up. That, however, is Microsoft's problem: by the time it catches Apple, the Cupertino company is already moving on to the next thing. It happened in phones, and then in tablets. What's next?HTC?The Taiwanese smartphone maker is heading into all sorts of trouble, expected to announce its first-ever quarterly loss next month as its revenues plummet in the face of increasing competition from South Korean rival Samsung.There had been some murmuring that Microsoft might buy HTC, which makes some Windows Phone handsets (possibly to fulfil a patent licensing deal with Microsoft). Now that won't happen – so with no recovery in sight, it is likely to fall into the arms of a Chinese smartphone maker such as ZTE, Huawei or Lenovo.Google?With Android, Google created a product that ensured Microsoft could never displace it from mobile search. With that aim achieved, Android's work is effectively done. Now Google is focusing on gathering ever more data from all of us, through our phones (whether iPhone or Android) to learn and predict what we will do next – so that it can offer it.Microsoft plus Nokia is no more dangerous to Google than they were apart. It's impossible to conceive that Windows Phone will seriously challenge Android in key markets such as India, Latin America and China; only inside businesses, where Android is weak, is there any risk.So far, Google has essentially ignored Windows Phone, refusing to make a YouTube app for it and making it troublesome to set up Google email.If Windows Phone does start getting wider use inside business, Google might find it useful to be more cooperative – but Android has essentially won already.Samsung?Having taken over from Nokia and Apple as the world's biggest mobile phone and smartphone maker, it now sits atop the mobile business. Because it makes everything from the chips to the screens to the physical handsets, it can drive huge economies of scale and production.Like HTC, it makes some Windows Phone devices – but whether it will still be keen to compete against a company with a home advantage is unclear.Finland?It's the loss of a crown jewel – Nokia used to be worth 10% of all of Finland's manufacturing. Over the past five years it has been gradually shrinking, and the diaspora created from that has created pockets of technological innovation in cities such as Tampere.The acquisition is sure to see a number of people leaving Nokia to look for jobs inside Finland rather than move to join Microsoft. But that could inspire a new generation of developers with new ideas – rather like Rovio, the Finnish company that now dominates the app world through its Angry Birds franchise.The man and woman in the street?Initially, not much at all. The acquisition won't close until early next year. Phones with Nokia's brand (licensed from the parent company) will still be on sale. But you'll probably see the "feature phone" devices vanish within a year as they are withdrawn from all but the lowest-cost markets, such as Africa. Then Microsoft will try to get people to upgrade to Lumia and Asha phones.But will cheap Android – and even cheap iPhones – be a bigger temptation? That's been the problem for Microsoft since October 2010, when it launched Windows Phone, and it hasn't found the solution yet.• This article was amended on 4 September 2013. An earlier version said HTC was expected to announce its first-ever quarterly loss this week. HTC has warned that it expects a loss for the current quarter: those results will be announced in October.
The takeover by Microsoft of Nokia's handset division, along with a licence for its patents, leaves behind two divisions that apparently the Redmond-based software company doesn't want: Location &amp; Services (which provides the HERE maps service) and Nokia Siemens Networks (NSN), set up as a joint venture with Siemens of Germany, but now fully owned by Nokia.It was thetakeover of NSNat the end of June which finally cleared the way for the selloff of the handset division, because it meant that the remainder of Nokia would be in charge of its destiny.But what is Microsoft getting - and what is left behind?What remains at NokiaThe Location &amp; Services division, formed from the $8bnacquisition of Navteq in 2007, generates little revenue compared to its NSN sibling.But neither generates much profit: over the past four quarters, they have generated an operating profit of just €147m. Over the past two quarters, the Location &amp; Services division has lost far more than the NSN division has generated. Unless the NSN division can start generating more profit, or the Location &amp; Services division has struck a hard bargain with Microsoft over its maps licensing, the company will not be profitable.Nokia revenue and profit by division, 2008-2015. Click for larger version. Data source: NokiaWhat's Microsoft getting?Nokia's handset business, once the top of the heap, has slumped badly in the face of challenges from Samsung and Apple at the top end of the smartphone market, and Chinese "white box" makers at the low end making ultra-cheap smartphones which compete with Nokia's feature phones at the low end.The direction of travel in handset revenue is unmistakable: it is generating less revenue now than at any point since 2002, and since it began selling Windows Phone devices in the fourth quarter of 2011 it hasn't reversed that trend. Microsoft is buying one of the world's smallest smartphone makers.Nokia phone sales by segment, 2008-2013. Click for larger versionThe Asha "smart featurephone" sector - which had looked briefly like an interim saviour as feature phones become less important - has also failed to ignite interest. So now Microsoft has a race against time to prevent Android and Apple taking over the world. It won't be easy.
Nokia can trace its roots back to 1865 and a pulp mill in south-west Finland. A century and a half later, Nokia's handset businessis being bought by Microsoft for €5.44bnafter a troubled few years for the mobile phone giant. Here we track Nokia's rise, and subsequent fall.1865:Mining engineer Fredrik Idestam sets up a wood pulp mill at the Tammerkoski Rapids in south-western Finland.1871:The Nokia name is born, inspired by the Nokianvirta river on the banks of which Idestam opens a second mill.1898:Eduard Polón founds Finnish Rubber Works, which later becomes Nokia's rubber business, making everything from rubber boots to tyres. Nokia wellies are still made today, though not by the telecoms company.1912:Arvid Wickström sets up Finnish Cable Works, the foundation of Nokia's cable and electronics business.1967:The official merger of Nokia Ab, Finnish Cable Works and Finnish Rubber.1979:Nokia creates radio telephone company Mobira Oy as a joint venture with leading Finnish TV maker Salora.1981:Launch of the Nordic Mobile Telephone service, the world's first international cellular network, and the first to allow international roaming.1982:Nokia introduces the first car phone – the Mobira Senator – to the network. That same year, the Nokia DX200, the company's first digital telephone switch, goes into operation.1984:Nokia launches the Mobira Talkman portable car phone – a chunky piece of kit but a start.1987:Nokia introduces the Mobira Cityman, the first handheld mobile phone. It weighs in at 800g and comes with a price tag of 24,000 Finnish Marks (about £3,400). The Soviet leader, Mikhail Gorbachev, is pictured using one to make a call from Helsinki to his communications minister in Moscow.1991:The Finnish prime minister, Harri Holkeri, makes the world's first "global system for mobile communications" call, using Nokia equipment.1992:Nokia launches its first digital handheld GSM phone, the Nokia 1011. The Nokia president and chief executive, Jorma Ollila, decides to focus on mobile phones and telecommunications, and the process begins of selling off its rubber, cable and consumer electronics divisions.1994:Nokia launches the 2100 series, the first phones to feature the Nokia Tune ringtone. It goes on to sell 20m phones worldwide in the 2100 series. Nokia's target had been 400,000.1998:Nokia becomes the world leader in the mobile phones market.1996-2001:Nokia's turnover increases almost fivefold from €6.5bn to €31bn.1999:Nokialaunches the Nokia 7110, a phone capable of rudimentary web-based functions, including email. It uses the Orange network to access the internet using Wireless Application Protocol (WAP).2000:Nokia does a deal with music publisher EMIenabling users to choose their favourite tunes as their ringtones.2001:Nokia launches its first phone with a built-in camera, the Nokia 7650. Buta profits warning, blamed on a slowdown in the mobile market, stuns investors. It announces plans tocut 1,000 jobs, but thingsstart to look upby the end of the year.2002:Nokia launches its first video capture phone, the Nokia 3650. It also launches its first 3G phone, the Nokia 6650. With 3G technology, phones can now be used to browse the web, download music, watch TV on the move, and more.2004:Nokia reveals that although it is still the market leader it islosing share to its rivals, with its 35% share comparing with a target of 40% as it falls behind with its new product range.2005:Nokia sells its billionth phone – a Nokia 1100 – in Nigeria, and global mobile phone subscriptions pass 2bn.2007:Nokia is forced intoone of the world's largest product recallsafter it admits the batteries in 46m phones could be faulty. Meanwhile, a longer-term problem emerges: Apple launches the iPhone.2008:Nokia reports a30% fall in third-quarter profits.Nokia smartphone salesfall by 3.1% during the quarter, while sales of Apple iPhones grow by 327.5%.2009:Nokia announces plans tocut 1,700 jobsworldwide as the recession hits mobile phone sales.Nokia admits it was slow to reactto the rise of new devices such as the iPhone and plans to fight back. But it is too late to avoidthe first loss in more than a decade.2010:Competitors such as the iPhone and Android-based devices are posing a serious challenge to Nokia's future. It appoints former Microsoft manStephen Elop as president and chief executive. Nokiacuts a further 1,800 jobsdespite a rise in profits.2011:Elop warns staff "we are standing on a burning platform", and announcesa strategic partnership with Microsoftdays later to compete with Apple and Google's Android platform. Nokiacuts a further 4,000 jobsworldwide from its 65,000-strong workforce. Elop denies it is in talks abouta takeover by Microsoft. Nokia is overtaken by Samsung and Apple in the smartphone sector as profits and sales dwindle.Nokia launches new smartphones.2012:Nokia cuts 4,000 jobsand moves smartphone manufacturing to Asia. Shares fall following a profits warning and itslumps to a €1.3bn loss. Analysts foresee a possible takeover by Microsoft as it cuts 10,000 more jobs and announces itslast factory in Finland will close.2013:Nokiareturns to profitafter an 18-month spell of losses.Microsoft buys Nokia's handset businessfor €5.44bn (£4.6bn).
Microsoft is to acquire Nokia's mobile phone arm in a swansong deal for the software giant's long-serving chief executive, Steve Ballmer, delivering Europe's last big handset maker into American ownership.For €5.44bn (£4.6bn), Nokia is casting off the business that once represented Finland's most important export, in a deal that will result in 32,000 staff transferring to Microsoft.Overtaken in the smartphone arena by Apple and Samsung, Nokia's board agreed to end the company's decades-long role as a pioneer and once-dominant player in one of the most revolutionary technologies in modern history.Nokia's chief executive, Stephen Elop, has stepped down from the company's board, and will transfer with the handset business to Microsoft, where he will become head of the devices division after the transaction's expected completion in the first quarter of 2014."Today's announcementis a bold step into the future," said Ballmer. "For Microsoft it is a signature event in our transformation."The acquisition marks the boldest step yet taken by Microsoft in its recently announced strategy of moving decisively into the device-manufacturing business, so that it can design for the software and hardware of its products. It is a move Ballmer hopes will bring the kind of success currently being enjoyed by Apple.In a dramatic month for America's most successful consumer software group, Ballmerannounced his retirement from the companywithin 12 months after 13 years at the helm. Elop, already tipped as a potential successor, is now seen as the most likely heir to the company still chaired by its founder, Bill Gates. "Elop becomes a really strong candidate for the CEO role," said Roberta Cozza, a research director at Gartner. "He is someone who has demonstrated that he can run a software unit at Microsoft and has his tenure as the CEO of a hardware company.""I feel sadness because we are changing Nokia and what it stands for," said Elop, at an emotional press conference at Nokia headquarters in Espoo. "We are a challenger and as the news ripples around the world today we will be recognised as an even greater challenger to our competitors."Nokia has staked a claim to a growing but small share of the smartphone market, with 7.4m of its Lumia handsets shipped in the most recent quarter.Samsung shipped 71m smartphones in the second quarter, according to Gartner, and Nokia is no longer among the global top five."I share the frustration that comes from being so far behind two very large competitors," said Elop. "We are going faster than Nokia has ever done before. Achieving our goal of becoming the third ecosystem is becoming very real."Elop, who formerly headed Microsoft's business services unit, intertwined Nokia's fortunes with Microsoft two years ago when he announced he would abandon the Finnish company's attempts at creating its own smartphone software, opting instead for the Windows Phone operating system.Microsoft heavily subsidised Nokia's strategy, providing hundreds of millions in marketing dollars per quarter to support the significant advertising spend needed to tempt customers unfamiliar with the Windows Phone interface.As head of Microsoft's devices unit, Elop will oversee not only phones but its best selling Xbox games console and its Surface tablet computer, which has so far failed to register with consumers. Julie Larson-Green, who currently heads devices and studios at Microsoft and had been seen as a contender for the top job, will report to Elop.Risto Siilasmaa, Nokia's chairman, will take over as chief executive of the company in the interim. "This transaction makes all the sense rationally but emotionally it is complicated," he admitted, saying the decision was made because Nokia needed more cash if it was to compete with larger smartphone rivals.The market, he said, "is becoming a duopoly with the leaders building significant momentum with a scale not seen before, while many established players have disappeared or faced difficult choices".Microsoft will retain its mobiles research and development facility in Finland, where 4,700 Nokia staff are currently employed, and Ballmer said: "We have no significant plans to shift around the world where work is done. We are deeply committed to Finland."The US company said it would build a datacentre in Finland to serve customers in Europe.Microsoft is also providing €1.5bn of "immediate financing" to Nokia, implying that the Finnish company has hit a cash crunch. Its debt has already been reduced to "junk" status. If used, the loan will be repayable when the deal closes.The remaining part of Nokia will be dominated by Nokia Siemens Networks (NSN), which builds mobile phone infrastructure and a mapping platform called Here. Elop recently completed the acquisition of 50% of NSN that was owned by Siemens. These rump assets currently employ 56,000 people and have revenues of €15bn.But even inside cash-rich Microsoft, Nokia's phone business faces serious challenges. Its handset business has slumped in size from a peak in the third quarter of 2010, with revenues of €7.2bn, to just €2.72bn in the second quarter of this year, its smallest size in more than a decade. It has also been loss-making for five of the past six quarters.While it is strong in the "feature phone" business in the developing world, it has struggled in the all-important smartphone business. Apple's iPhone and handsets running Google's Android together make up over 95% of sales in the US and China, the world's two largest smartphone markets, according to Kantar Worldpanel's latest figures. Windows Phone only has shares above 10% in Mexico and France, according to the company's figures.Under the deal, Microsoft is buying the Lumia and Asha brand names that Nokia has used for its smart and intermediate phones. It has licensed the use of the Nokia brand on handsets for 10 years, but the Finnish business will retain ownership of the brand. That will probably mean that the Nokia brand disappearing from handsets in the next decade, ending over 30 years' history in the business.Having started in 1865 with a pulp mill in the Finnish town of Tampere, Nokia reinvented itself repeatedly, shifting to rubber boot production early in the 20th century, and then making its first telephone exchange in the 1970s. Its first mobile phone appeared in 1981.Rumours that Microsoft intended to buy Nokia had been floated since Elop joined the company. Reaction to the deal was mixed."Microsoft buying Nokia looks like doubling down on the current failing strategy, without changing the dynamics that are preventing success," cautioned Benedict Evans at Enders Analysis.Ben Wood at CCS Insight described the deal as a "bold, but entirely necessary gamble by Microsoft"."Mobile needs to be a cornerstone of Microsoft's business for future success," said Wood."This is by no means a silver-bullet solution to Nokia and Microsoft's current difficulties. The massive restructuring that has taken place within Nokia over the last two years offers Microsoft a more stable foundation on which to focus its efforts in mobile, but Windows Phone remains a distant third place in the smartphone race."
The phrase "If you're not paying, you're the product" may be familiar within tech circles, but the message is still sinking in for many users of free apps.The latest sector under scrutiny for privacy issues is the burgeoning health apps market, with a report claiming that 20 of the most popular apps are sharing their users' data with nearly 70 advertising and analytics companies.The study wasconducted by Evidon for the Financial Times, covering apps including MapMyRun, Lose It! and Period Tracker, noting that the first of those shares data with 11 third-party companies.If you work in apps or tech, or follow these areas closely, this isn't a surprise, and it may not even seem controversial. Analytics are an important tool for developers to learn from what their users are doing, and improve their apps accordingly.Advertising? Some degree of data-sharing is inevitable, from enabling advertisers to know merely that their display ads have been seen, through to more sophisticated forms of ad-targeting based on what people are doing within an app.Developers know this, and so do tech-savvy app users. The problem is that health-tracking apps are going mainstream, and being used by tens of millions of people who don't know this, and may be freaked out by it.Chalk it down as the latest reminder of the need for more transparency around how app developers are sharing their users' data: explaining what and why, so people can make an informed decision about whether to use that app.Health and fitness apps are a particularly sensitive area for another reason: the keen interest from insurance companies in the data these developers are collecting on their users. The FT notes that big insurance firms like Humana and Aetna are signing partnerships with health app developers.The latter'sCarePassservice making this explicit: when it launched to the public in June, partners included some of the biggest names in the health apps market: MapMyFitness, RunKeeper, Fitbit, Withings and others, withmore than 100m downloads combined.The key there is that people sign up for CarePass and choose which apps to connect to it: they have control. Insurance firms should expect more scrutiny about any other less-public deals they're doing to flesh out data explicitly shared with them by customers.Big data has big implications for the insurance industry, and not just around healthcare. A number of companies have launched apps that track people's driving with the promise of lowering their insurance payments if they drive carefully, for example.The FT's report is a valuable piece of research, but it's a timely reminder rather than a big scandal. Or, at least, part of the bigger picture around who has access to our data and what they're sharing it for.App developers of all stripes should be as transparent as possible with their users about how their data is being shared, with platform owners like Apple, Google and Microsoft also bearing responsibility for ensuring this.The health-apps / insurance issue isn't just about those apps' privacy policies now, though. Venture capital money is flowing into this market: in August alone,Fitbit raised $43mandMyFitnessPal raised $18mfor example.Funding now means consolidation later: if your favourite fitness apps take off, they may be acquired by bigger fish in the healthcare or insurance industry in the next few years, and if they fail, they may also be snapped up.What happens to your data then? And of course, this is a question that can be asked about pretty much any free app or online service.Which brings us neatly back to "If you're not paying, you're the product". But it's rare to see an option with these apps to pay for more control over how your data is used – the usual upsell is for premium features.One final point: data-sharing is actually one of the strengths of the health apps market, in the way that these apps can work together.Track your food intake in MyFitnessPal, track your exercise in RunKeeper, use a Fitbit monitor to track your daily steps, and get them all to squirt data into the Fitbit app for a single place to track your efforts to be healthier.This is just one among many possible permutations of apps and gadgets, but the point is that these apps are often stronger together, and that this relies on sharing your data between them.That's more explicit sharing though: you connect the apps to one another. The Evidon/FT study should encourage us to pay more attention and ask more questions about how our data is being shared in other ways by these apps now, and in the future.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Mixed messages over free FIFA 14 on Xbox One | CVG UKWhat's this – Microsoft having to tidy up after mixed messaging from an array of different execs?Microsoft has clarified that a free copy of FIFA 14 will only come with pre-orders for the special Day One Edition of the Xbox One console.The new claim comes two weeks after a Microsoft executive claimed that "all pre-orders for Xbox One this holiday will include a copy of FIFA 14 at no extra cost". That quote, by corporate VP Phil Harrison, suggested that the offer was not limited to the special edition of the system.So yes, the free copy of Fifa is only with the Day One Edition, despite what the official Twitter feed and high ranking managers accidentally seemed to say. "It's as clear as an Xbox One marketing message" is destined to enter common usage.Gareth Bale remains FIFA 14 UK cover star despite transfer to Real Madrid | Eurogamer.netMore on Fifa:Welsh winger Gareth Bale will remain on the cover of FIFA 14 in the UK despite his world record £85.3m move from Spurs to Real Madrid.Bale completed his prolonged transfer to the Spanish giants yesterday, prompting questions about his inclusion on the box of FIFA 14 alongside Barcelona star Lionel Messi."Gareth Bale remains the FIFA 14 UK cover star alongside Lionel Messi," an EA Sports spokesperson told Eurogamer."In light of his recent transfer we are working closely with his management and we will have an update soon."Thank goodness all the many thousands of pounds involved in that licensing deal haven't been wasted!Eight Xbox One controllers can be connected to the console at once | VideoGamer.comLittle snippet of Xbox One info here:Eight wireless Xbox One controllers can be connected to the console at once, Microsoft has revealed.The figure was confirmed on the Xbox One website, which also revealed that each controller carries a 30 foot wireless range.The number is double that of Xbox 360 which only included support for four simultaneous controllers.You know what I'm thinking? I am thinking this:That's right, eight-player Bomberman, in the style of the legendary TEN-player mode on Sega Saturn. That's right, not PlayStation, Sega Saturn!This Ambitious Mod Aims To Fully Convert Civilization V To Warcraft | KotakuThis is genius:Warcraft and Civilization may contain two completely different game worlds with distinct game mechanics, but modder Bamington's Civilizations of Warcraft mod pack for Civ V—a huge project designed to add as much from the Warcraft universe as possible—fits like a glove.Factions, which were introduced in Warcraft III and WoW, are now civilizations and city-states. Dungeons and raids are natural wonders, constructed wonders or buildings. Religions, resources and the appropriate units have been converted accordingly as well.Capcom officially uploads I Am Street Fighter documentary to YouTube | JoystiqGood news for fans of the dragon punch, hadoken and spinning bird kick:Capcom has made sure-you-can (get it?) watch the 72-minute Street Fighter documentary, I Am Street Fighter: 25 Years of Inspiration, with YouTube's first non-pirated copy uploaded to the Street Fighter YouTube page. The documentary, created by Area 5 and originally released as part of the Street Fighter 25th Anniversary Collector's Set, explores the creation, history and fandom of the Street Fighter series, and features series producer Yoshinori Ono and former Capcom community manager Seth Killian.If you want to watch it right now, here it is:Now you'd better go and do some work.Other stuffGames we like, things we're interested in...Always Sometimes Monsters - Teaser TrailerDeveloped byVagabond Dogthis promising project is billed as an, "unconventional RPG about life, love, and the lengths that we will go to find happiness".Flame Over announcedEssex-based studioLaughing Jackalhas just revealed an intriguing new Vita project named Flame Over. Writing onthe Official PlayStation Blog, senior producer Alasdair Evans calls it, "a fast-paced, action-packed fire-fighting roguelike, featuring randomly generated levels and a complex fire simulation that radiates, jumps between objects, consumes fuel and destroys its environment in real time." It's out next year.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
One of the UK's largest internet providers, TalkTalk, told education minister Sarah Teather that the government should downplay its focus on pornography filters and try to stop suicide sites instead, the Guardian has learned.In a meeting with Teather, who as an MP led a campaign against the sexualisation of children, TalkTalk chief executive Dido Harding said: "Suicide is more important to parents than porn, so why mandate [filters against] porn and not suicide?"According to notes from the meeting in May 2012, released under a Freedom of Information request, Harding said that the government's plan to make users choose whether to opt in or out of being able to access sites designated as "porn" would be ineffective."Active choice by CD is not active choice," she told Teather, referring to some ISPs who offer filter options on installation software sent to customers on CD. "Getting network tools on [the] market needs to happen – TalkTalk is [the] only company with a solution – then worry about [consulting] option or active choice."Prime Minister David Cameron, a contemporary of Harding's at Oxford, has said that he wants to see ISPs being more proactive over pornography. But a source at one ISP criticised Cameron's overt focus on pornography and claimed "politicians and the media are absolutely obsessed with it".A TalkTalk spokesperson said suicide was the most commonly blocked subject matter by customers using its Homesafe content filtering software, followed by self-harm, pornography, weapons and violence in that order.By 2010, suicide had become the single biggest caused of death for those aged 15-49 in the developed world, according to the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation.TalkTalk, which has 4 million users for its internet service in the UK, compared to BT's 6.8m, Sky's 4.9m and Virgin Media's 4.5m, has also figured prominently in meetings with the government, records show. Harding was present at the majority of a series of private meetings about internet safety that were held between June 2012 and January 2013  with the minister for crime prevention, Jeremy Browne, minister for crime and security, James Brokenshire, and former parliamentary under secretary of state for equalities &amp; criminal information, Lynne Featherstone.The row over online pornography, and Cameron's urging of ISPs and search engines to introduce blocking not just for illegal content, but also to offer the option over access to every user, has led to criticism from ISPs who see it as expensive and ineffectual, and rights groups who see it as the thin end of a wedge of censorship.Cameron has proposed that by the end of the year, every new internet subscriber will be required to opt in to access porn, but critics have claimed the plans are ineffective because filters can also block material related to education or health, are more easily understood and circumvented by children than by their parents and are ineffective against material shared through peer-to-peer services.Ministerial records indicate TalkTalk was the only ISP to have a private meeting with a minister from the Department for Education, and has also had multiple meetings with the Home Office.During the same time period, official records show Virgin Media was the only other major ISP to have held a private meeting with the Home Office, when it met Brokenshire in November.Harding, who studied at Oxford University with Cameron and is married to Conservative MP John Penrose, also meets Cameron every quarter through her role on the government's Business Advisory Group. BT's Sir Michael Rake left this group in late 2012.Cameron will oblige all the ISPs to make every broadband account holder in the country make an "active choice" about whether they want to opt out of family-friendly content filters, and has credited TalkTalk with showing "great leadership" in the area.
Microsoft has swooped in to buy the handset business of Finland's Nokia, an audacious move that confirms the Redmond software company's intention to compete with Apple and Google head-on as a "devices and services" business.The deal, for €5.44bn (£4.6bn), gives Microsoft a company which used to dominate the mobile and smartphone market in 2006 but has been overshadowed by the rise of Apple and, latterly, Samsung and companies using Google's Android software.For Nokia, it means that a decades-long heritage as one of the world's leading mobile phone makers - which had been a source of huge pride in Finland - is over.As part of the deal Stephen Elop, now Nokia's chief executive, will rejoin Microsoft, which he left in September 2010 to take over the then-struggling Finnish company. Elop, 49, has been tipped as a leading contender to become the next chief executive of Microsoft, after the announcement at the end of August by Steve Ballmer that he would depart within 12 months. A total of 32,000 Nokia staff will join Microsoft, including 4,700 based in Finland.Microsoft is also providing €1.5bn of "immediate financing" to Nokia, implying that the Finnish company has hit a cash crunch. Its debt has already been reduced to "junk" status. If used, the loan will be repayable when the deal closes."For Nokia, this is an important moment of reinvention and from a position of financial strength, we can build our next chapter," said Risto Siilasmaa, chairman of the Nokia Board of Directors, who now takes over as the interim chief executive of the remaining parts of Nokia. Those are Nokia Siemens Networks, which builds mobile phone infrastructure and its HERE mapping platform. The NSN and mapping business are now just over 50% of revenues, and barely profitable. Elop recently completed the acquisition of 50% of NSN that was owned by Siemens.But even inside cash-rich Microsoft, Nokia's phone business faces serious challenges. Its handset business has slumped in size from a peak in the third quarter of 2010, with revenues of €7.2bn, to just €2.72 in the second quarter of this year, its smallest size in more than a decade. It has also been lossmaking for five of the past six quarters.While it is strong in the "feature phone" business in the developing world, it has struggled in the all-important smartphone business. Apple's iPhone and handsets running Google's Android together make up over 95% of sales in the US and China, the world's two largest smartphone markets,according to Kantar Worldpanel's latest figures. Windows Phone only has shares above 10% in Mexico and France, according to the company's figures.Under the deal, Microsoft is buying the "Lumia" and "Asha" brand names that Nokia has used for its smart and intermediate phones. It has licensed the use of the Nokia brand on handsets for ten years, but the Finnish business will retain ownership of the brand. That will probably mean that the Nokia brand  disappearing from handsets in the next decade, ending over 30 years' history in the business.Having started in 1865 with a pulp mill in the Finnish town of Tampere, Nokia reinvented itself repeatedly, shifting to rubber boot production early in the 20th century, and then making its first telephone exchange in the 1970s. Its first mobile phone appeared in 1981.Rumours that Microsoft intended to buy Nokia had been floated since Elop joined the company. When he chose to dump its home-grown Symbian and Meego smartphone software in favour of Microsoft's newer Windows Phone software in February 2011, a number of Finnish observers accused him of being a "Trojan horse" for Microsoft.Ballmer said in a statement: "It's a bold step into the future – a win-win for employees, shareholders and consumers of both companies. Bringing these great teams together will accelerate Microsoft's share and profits in phones, and strengthen the overall opportunities for both Microsoft and our partners across our entire family of devices and services."But the deal could also mean that BlackBerry's best chance of being acquired, by Microsoft, is over. The Canadian handset maker, which has seen its revenues and handset sales plummet, has formed a committee seeking alternatives including a sale. But Carolina Milanesi, smartphone analyst at research group Gartner, commented: "In case there was still hope out there for BlackBerry, this [purchase by Microsoft] is pretty much it. Microsoft will be more aggressive than Nokia in pursuing enterprises."
A burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamEx-Googler gives the world a better Bitcoin &gt;&gt; Wired.comCharles Lee was a software engineer at Google, spending his days hacking networking code for the search giant's new-age operating system, ChromeOS. But in his spare time, he rewrote Bitcoin, the world's most popular digital currency.Early one October morning two years ago, Lee unleashed his project, Litecoin, onto an online universe that was still coming to terms with its more famous progenitor, and though Litecoin is still firmly rooted in the Bitcoin code base, it has found a place in the world, showing just how strong the appetite is for a new breed money.Bitcoin has had an extraordinary run this year, but if you'd sunk your money into Litecoin instead of Bitcoin on January 1, it would have done better.The pitfalls of geekdom: there's always going to be a new thing to splurge on.February 2013: Study finds that streaming and spyware are killing music piracy &gt;&gt; ForbesFrom February: Alex Knapp:"Among other factors, the increased use of legal and licensed streaming services has proven to be an alternative for music fans who formerly used P2P networks to obtain music," said NPD senior vice president Russ Crupnick in a press release.What's interesting to me is that streaming isn't just killing downloads. 44% of the survey respondents indicated that they'd also stopped ripping CDs from friends and family. Which makes sense. Why bother if you have on-demand access?Another major factor is somewhat related to litigation – 20% of users reported that they'd stopped illegally downloading music either because their favorite site was shut down, or because the sites that are around now are so underground that they're filled with viruses and spyware.(Thanks #GambaKufu for the link.)Sistema India opts for Chinese smartphones, skips iPhone &gt;&gt; WSJDmitry Shukov, chief executive at Sistema Shyam Teleservices Ltd., told The Wall Street Journal it decided not to carry the iPhone because Apple sets a floor for unit sales, making it more challenging to sell the smartphone because Sistema Shyam operates on the less popular CDMA mobile standard.Apple sells phones running CDMA or code division multiple access technology through other channels in India. Of India's 867.80m wireless users, only 73.18m were on CDMA networks at end-March, data from the telecom regulator showed.(Thanks #rquick for the link.)The MIDI revolution: synthesizing music for the masses &gt;&gt; NPR"The idea was, it didn't have to be perfect. We wanted something everyone could agree on and then we wanted to give it away because we wanted to make sure it became universally adopted," [Dave] Smith says. "I don't even remember discussing much about the possibility of charging royalties or licensing fees. It was just assumed that we would give it away."Today, that decision has allowed MIDI to travel far. In addition to music, MIDI is also used to control light shows and animatronics. It was used to generate ring tones in early cellphones. What was first used to link one synthesizer to another is now used to control the synchronized fountains at the Bellagio Hotel in Las Vegas.Apple's mistake &gt;&gt; Lefsetz LetterBack when the iPhone ruled smartphones, if Apple had introduced a streaming service they could have ensured the iPhone's dominance. It would be a reason to stick with Apple. But now Spotify's available everywhere and even Amazon sells a healthy percentage of MP3s, while testing the streaming waters with its Prime service.In tech, if you don't dominate, if you don't have almost all of the market share, you're on your way to marginalization. Which is why Apple is faltering and YouTube is dominating in music. If I've got YouTube, why do I need Spotify?That's what the Swedish company has to convince people. That they need to pay for the service.As for the musicians complaining about payouts, ignore them completely, they're wasting their breath, the battle has been fought and the war is over, streaming already won.Ain't that typical. Ignorant old school purveyors bitching about something they know nothing about. To rail against streaming services on any level is to complain that you can't buy a car without a catalytic converter, to insist that Tesla must not exist because it hurts Chevron and Exxon.Radiation Dosage Chart &gt;&gt; Information Is BeautifulOn this updated chart, Fukushima isn't looking like a great place for your next holiday. (Surprising comparison also found in chart: mammograms and Chernobyl. You'll have to look at it.)A great big phone: Samsung Galaxy Mega review &gt;&gt; Gadget WritingTim Anderson tries Samsung's 6.3.in phablet:[The Mega] is highly capable; but I hesitate to recommend it unless the combination of a large screen and a smartphone is perfect for you; if you do lots of web browsing, email and YouTube, but not many phone calls, or if your eyesight is such that having everything a bit larger is an advantage, it could be just the thing.The disappointment is that Samsung has not made more sense of the large screen. The Multi-Window feature is not good, and in the end it just feels like a big phone. The fact that its spec is well behind that of the Galaxy S4 is another disadvantage.The Galaxy Mega also exhibits the Samsung/Android problem of duplicated functionality, contributing to a user experience that is less tidy and more confusing than it needs to be.HTC execs detained over leaked trade secrets; shares tumble| ReutersThree HTC design executives were arrested on suspicion of leaking trade secrets, sending the Taiwanese smartphone maker's shares tumbling on Monday as its troubles deepened amid a wave of senior staff departures and disappointing sales.Taipei prosecutors confirmed that HTC vice president of product design Thomas Chien, research and development director Wu Chien-Hung and senior manager of design and innovation Justin Huang were arrested on Friday.Chien and Chien-Hung remain in custody, while Huang was released on bail, prosecutors office spokesman Mou Hsin Huang said.The executives were also accused of making false commission fee claims totaling around T$10 million ($334,200). No further details about the allegations were immediately available.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday. Say something!
Spotify's latest plans to bring streaming music into the living room will see its service built into hi-fis and speakers from a range of manufacturers, with a new initiative called Spotify Connect.The feature, which is due to launch later in 2013, will see home-audio devices streaming music directly from Spotify, but controlled by its mobile app – initially iPhone and iPad, with Android to follow, as well as Spotify's desktop application.Users will pair their mobile device with their hi-fi or speakers once, and will then be able to tap a Spotify Connect button in the app to play music through the devices.It's Spotify's equivalent of Apple's AirPlay technology – which the app already works with on iOS – but with the mobile device acting purely as the controller: the hi-fi or speakers stream the music directly from Spotify rather than via the smartphone or tablet.Google is also working on easier ways to stream music and other media from mobile devices in the living room: in its case, with theChromecastdongle and Google Cast feature.10 manufacturers are so far confirmed to adopt Spotify Connect: Argon, Bang &amp; Olufsen, Denon, Hama, Marantz, Philips, Pioneer, Revo, Teufel and Yamaha, with more to follow according to Spotify's global head of hardware partnerships, Pascal de Mul."We want to make sure people understand that it's not just about the £500-and-up devices. We basically want to be everywhere: this is a strategic step towards being ubiquitous in the living room," said de Mul."There are a couple of devices already out in the market that will support this through a firmware upgrade, but other models will be on the market before Christmas. The vast majority of these initial 10 partners will come out with devices this year, but we've got a whole list of other partners we are working with too."Spotify Connect is a step on from Spotify's existing partnerships with hi-fi makers including Sonos, Denon, Marantz, Onkyo and Philips, which usually involve integrating Spotify into those manufacturers' own mobile apps."We've done some integrations, but you have to then go into special manufacturer apps, get your playlists started… It's all a little awkward," said de Mul."What we're doing instead is building Spotify into all these partners' devices, but have made it controllable from the Spotify client apps, rather than relying on them to build Spotify clients for us."Spotify currently has more than 24m active users, with more than 6m of them paying for its service. Closer partnerships with home-audio manufacturers is part of its strategy to reach a wider audience, and also to cement itself into the listening habits of existing users.Rivals have similar ambitions. Sonos, for example, haspartnershipswith Deezer, Rdio, Rhapsody, Pandora, Napster and other digital music services. Deezer has also worked with Philips, Jawbone, Simple Audio and Logitech, while Napster's partners include Yamaha and Raumfeld.For its part,Apple's hardware partners for AirPlay, which includes the ability to stream music from an iOS device to speakers, include Denon, Bowers &amp; Wilkins, JBL and iHome.Spotify Connect represents an intriguing challenge to Apple and Spotify's streaming music rivals, particularly the aspect that will see hardware partners promoting the feature with an on-box logo."We don't really try to be the exclusive partner: we don't tie them to us. This is Spotify technology, and there's more than a year of work put into this, so we're not going to give that away," said de Mul."But at the same time, we don't do this from a competitive positioning viewpoint: we're not sat here scheming about how we can create a position in the world that's difficult for others to get into. This is about the best experience for our users: the idea that the experience was lacking, the innovation was lacking and we weren't reaching that ubiquity."He added that Spotify sees Spotify Connect as a way for hi-fi and speaker manufacturers to keep up with the speed of innovation in the streaming music industry."What I see in general with the iPod and iTunes and those kinds of developments is that the audio [hardware] world has basically lost its role in the innovation curve, and they've started to become followers," he said."Partners are great at building devices that make great sound quality and great design, but they struggle a little bit with following the speed of innovation that happens on the internet. They're screwing things together, and you can't do that as quickly as screwing software together. But by doing this, we bring them back in front."
