Someone from Tom's Hardware went round the AVN Adult Entertainment Expo in Las Vegas last week. He "did a quick straw poll on, the virtues ofHD DVD versus Blu-ray, and the answer from a dozen companies, big and small, including Pink Visual and Bangbros editor-in-chief, is going into a single direction: HD DVD is the preferred format. Period."Apparently the porn purveyors think Blu-ray costs more to produce, and Bangbros thinks "there are more HD DVD players in homes than there are Blu-ray players, for example in the Xbox 360." But, says the story, Bangbros also thinks "Blu-ray has superior quality," which is completely and utterly wrong.A critical case is Digital Playground. According toJulie Jacobson in CE Pro, Digital Playground said it supported Blu-ray but its first movies will be HD DVD. The story says:Last year, Joone said he had a couple of concerns. First, he wondered if Sony, the lead Blu-ray technology developer, would "allow" porn. Initially, there would be few Blu-ray replication houses, and adult video might not be the highest priority. Joone blames Sony for inhibiting porn titles on Betamax way back when.And according toHeise Online's report -- in German-- it sounds as though Sony refused Joone permission to produce Blu-ray porn and threatened to revoke Digital Playground's license.(It says:in den USA aber eine Absage erhalten habe. Die Unternehmen hätten übereinstimmend angegeben, dass ihnen Sony mit der Entziehung der Blu-ray-Lizenz gedroht habe, wenn sie Pornos auf den HD-Scheiben produzierten.Babelfishtranslates this as: "in the USA however a refusal received. The enterprises would agreeing have indicated that Sony had threatened them with the extraction of the Blu ray license, if they produced Pornos on the hp disks.")You can understand why Sony would not want it widely publicised that buying a PlayStation 3 is the cheapest way to get access to high-definition Blu-ray porn movies, even though that would be true. (They may well be shot using Sony cameras, recorded with Sony audio equipment and shown on Sony TVs, too!) But I still wonder where Sony would get the power to block somebody else's content....Anyway,a US site has picked up the Heise storyand leads with:Has Sony gone mad? Prominent adult movie producer Digital Playground (site) says it is forced to use HD DVD instead of Blu-ray, because Sony does not allow XXX-rated movies to be released on Blu-ray.So will the availability of HD porn swing the format war in HD DVD's favour? Did porn decide the battle between VHS and Betamx. And will Bangbros send us all free samples to prove that Blu-ray is higher quality than HD DVD even though both formats use identical codecs?(By the way, it seems DP's HD DVD claim does not necessarily mean the movies will play on an HD DVD player.)Update: porn director Robbie D comments on the issue ina video at G4TV. He says "we'vbe been told by the replicating houses that they are in fear of losing their licence to replicate Blu-ray." Is it Sony? "I find that hard to believe considering our industry has been dominated by Sony cameras for the last 10 years."
Warning: serious eye pain ahead. Oh, go on, look then:The people at Google Watch have wondered what Google's pristine front page would look like if it had the ants-on-tartrazine designers who seem to have been let loose on Yahoo!'s front page. (Yahoo long ago succumed to "portalitis" - an infection of the portals - which is, sadly, irreversible, though not necessarily fatal.Here's what it would be like:Yes, horrible isn't it? We're reminded of how Altavista turned from being a really useful search engine(back when the web was very young) into avile portalwhich was only useful if one used its text-only version. The irony being, of course, thatnowadays it's about as clean as Google.Thanks toGoogle Watchfor the mockup.Now, bonus points for anyone who can point us to "If Yahoo looked like Google"..
Blizzard have announced thatWorld of Warcrafthas hit 8 million subscribers. Even if you assume that a substantial amount of these are lapsed accounts this is still a hugely impressive figure. Of course, this announcement is perfectly timed, with Burning Crusade - the first expansion pack for the game - released next Tuesday, complete with midnight store-openings around Europe. I'll be interviewing one of WoW's designers on Monday afternoon, so post any Azeroth-related questions below and I'll get some answers.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Tetsuya Mizuguchi, creative mastermind of a range of successful, music-heavy puzzle titles (Rez,Space Channel 5and theLuminesseries) is coming to town next week to promote his company'snew gameand the gamesblog has landed an interview. Now, while I'd like to ask him about how he views his games as extensions of videogaming art (ducks fromKeef's slap), I figure you folks might have some questions you'd like to ask too. In that the latest internet buzzword is "conversation", let's have a chat about what you'd like to know about this iconic, award-winning and innovative games designer.
I've spent the day with some 60 other journalists from all over the world at Microsoft's Redmond HQ near Seattle listening to presentations aboutVista, the new version of Windows which gets its consumer launch on the 30th.Speakers have covered topics ranging from the localisation of Vista (did you know that they're very proud of the Cleartype fonts they've included in Vista for Sinhalese?) via the implementation of parental controls and accessibility options to the economic effect Vista is having (one stat says that for every $1 Microsoft reaps in Vista-related revenue, the IT industry ecosystem around it will reap another $18).However, two things caught my ear today among all the Powerpoint presentations (done in thenew version of Officeof course). The first came in a fascinating discussion of the work done by Microsoft Research, which is looking at all sorts of technologies and scientific solutions including quantum computing and work on an HIV vaccine.Yes, an HIV vaccine. What's a software behemoth doing looking at the virus that causes Aids? It's nothing to do with theBill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation, which pours money into health projects. No, this has come about because, as Kevin Schofield of MSR explained, HIV behaves in the same way as spam.Puzzled looks. Yup, and it's blindingly obvious when you think about it. According to Schofield, the virus mutates all the time - its core remains the same but the envelope it's contained in is constantly changing, which makes it very hard for researchers to protect us from it. Just like spam, which too has a constant core: the desire to sell us something; but which also changes its shape and envelope all the time - not to fox the immune system in the way that HIV does, but to fox our spam filters. That's something I want to follow up on.The other thing that caught my ear came at the end of the day when the effects of not enough sleep (I won't bore you with our late,snowyand stressful arrival from Las Vegas last night) were really catching up with us. Pasquale DeMaio showed us the toolkit given to hardware manufacturers - a biggish Perspex box full of plastic bits exemplifying the black and white and translucent look of Vista that apparently costs up to $1,000 a time to produce - and started talking about Vista's "soul".To follow this up he produced a hardbacked book about the size of a large postcard containing about 20 pages of beautiful paper full of words like " natural" and "emotional", "alive" and "fundamental" and pictures. This, apparently, defines Vista's soul to people who might want to build hardware that echoes the look and feel of the OS.I always thought having soul was to do with being groovy and into music and was the preserve of humans, but if Microsoft is to be believed, an operating system can have soul too.
If anyone tries to tell you at some point in 2007 that videogames are now an accepted mainstream art form, slap them quickly. And when the initial look of shock fades to one of slack-mouthed confusion, slap them again. They are incredibly wrong and need to be reprogrammed.A fortnight ago, comedy conservative Boris Johnson used his column in the Telegraph to launch a vociferous attack on videogames. Under the headline "Games rot our children's brains", he blundered: "It is about time, as a society, that we admitted the catastrophic effect these blasted gizmos are having on the literacy and the prospects of young males." Quite apart from the fact that no one has used the phrase "blasted gizmos" since the 1948 book Biggles and the New Radar Equipment, he ignores the masses of research that suggests child literacy problems start way before kids even pick up a joypad and that their attitudes to reading are influenced most importantly by their parents.He also ignores, or more likely has never heard about, the many thousands of families who spent Christmas laughing and competing together thanks to the likes of Wii Sports, SingStar and Guitar Hero. The zombified, isolated youngsters of his outdated imagination don't fit well with what I have seen: generations gathered together fighting over Wiimotes rather than TV remotes - chatting, shouting and singing rather than slumping in silence, staring goggle-eyed at whatever visual slurry the nation's broadcasters had seen fit to label family entertainment.Of course, it is a little daft to get worked up over the pompous scribblings of an out-of-touch Tory - Boris writing in the Telegraph is pretty much the blind leading the blind as far as cultural enlightenment goes. More annoying, perhaps, was the recent news that the controversial independent videogame, Super Columbine RPG, was withdrawn from the Slamdance Film Festival's Guerrilla Gamemaker Competition - on moral grounds, according to the event's president, Peter Baxter. This is the movie festival set up 13 years ago by those who felt Sundance had failed to showcase the edgier work of offbeat indie filmmakers. Super Columbine RPG is apparently the first work to be withdrawn in that period.Sure, this freeware title, an attempt to investigate and satirise the Columbine massacre through the uncomfortable framework of a traditional RPG (role playing game), is often confused and tawdry. But it symbolises a growing understanding that videogames have more to say than "shoot the enemies and pick up health".Doubtless, the interactive element, together with the very word "game" and all the connotations it carries, muddy the water somewhat for those who seek to explore real-world themes through the format. But, for God's sake, those responsible for a supposedly progressive arts festival should understand the incredible possibilities of interactive media to educate, inform and challenge in fresh, engaging ways. This isn't even a new idea - Monopoly, of course, has its roots in The Landlord's Game, developed in the first years of the 20th century to show how the economics of rented accommodation impoverished tenants.Newsflash: videogames are still misunderstood and maligned in 2007 - no matter how much money they're making, no matter how many suited soulless freaks try to turn them into franchise properties. So buckle up, people, we're looking at many more years of this. It's not over 'til the fat Tory plays.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Computers can't understand either of them, because they can't actually read. To a computer, letters that form part of a graphic image are a picture, which it can't process, or read, as it does with text characters. By contrast, a human is able to read both sets of letters in the same way.Captchas (completely automated public Turing test to tell computers and humans apart) are designed to determine whether an input to a web page - commenting on a blog post, or signing up for an online service - actually comes from a human or a computer (probably programmed to post advertisements or other junk). While you wait, the Captcha - a term trademarked by Carnegie Mellon University - generates a graphic on the fly and asks you to read and type in the letters and/or numbers that appear. Which is easy for most humans, but next-to-impossible for a computer.But spammers, being nothing if not adaptable, and having seen their attempts to sign up to free Hotmail and Yahoo! accounts with which to spam the world defeated, have begun using this to their advantage. Spam filters are also computer programs. Which is why much of the spam nowadays landing in your inbox contains an image at the top with text urging you to buy some stock or pharmaceutical.What's not obvious is how clever the technology behind those "image spams" is. They have the typography of a ransom note because they are created by pulling together bits and pieces from different servers around the net, using peer-to-peer technology more familiar with file-sharing. Each letter may be in a different font or even made up of pieces of letters from multiple fonts.Even so, we can instantly recognise the letters and read the content, even though we wish we couldn't; but a computer is not smart enough, no matter how big it is or how well it's programmed. And where do the spams come from? A "botnet" of virus-infected PCs. On command from the botnet's central controller, a template server supplies the actual content of the spam, along with junk text (often book or news article extracts) to fool spam filters which might, by now, be alerted to image-only emails being potential junk. The server also supplies probably a few hundred email addresses. That may not sound like many, but at that rate it would take only 3,400 infected computers (out of the many millions out there) to send more than 1m spam messages.Security professionals say the template server uses encryption and challenge-response techniques (not unlike those Captchas) to ensure that third parties can't download the templates. It also generates the GIF image that contains the actual "payload" - the advertisement you see at the top of each spam. Remarkably, each image is, like the proverbial snowflake, unique, with different heights and widths and randomly generated pixels to make them impossible for filtering software to recognise and block.One worrying thought: if we ever devise computers smart enough to read images - and so block those image spams - the spammers will, equally, have access to programs that can defeat Captchas, and blog (and other sorts of) spam will go even more nuclear.Meanwhile, Joshua Cyr, chief technology officer of the content management company Savvy Software, has been tracking the stocks touted in spam since May 2005 (details atspamstocktracker.com). His findings: if you bought $1,000 worth of each of those stocks on receiving the message, you'd be pretty much broke now.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Last year Nokia launched its first non-phone consumer product in a while - the Wi-Fi powered 770 web tablet. It proved to be something of a surprise hit, with geeks loving its classy screen, elegant browsing experience and the fact it ran on a Linux, as opposed to Windows, operating system. For its successor, the just-launched N800, Nokia has smartened the device up and made a few tweaks, but largely stuck with the 770's successful template. So, for example, there's no pull-out QWERTY keypad - instead, users input text either using the supplied stylus or through its large touch-screen keypad. There's no way users can touch type using this, but it might prove handy for long emails. The sober black styling of the 770 has also gone, to be replaced by a more contemporary looking silver. The device also has a speedier processor and a lot more internal memory (128MB), although the screen resolution is the same. Another innovation is a mini web cam for video conferencing, while a Skype VoIP application for the device will be available soon. This is good overhaul of what was already a cracking product. But sorry, Nokia - I would still like that pull-out keyboard.
Hans Rosling has achieved what most scientists would call "enough". Having studied statistics and medicine for seven years at Sweden's Uppsala University, he worked in Bangalore and Mozambique - discovering, in the latter in 1981, a formerly unknown paralysing disease which (with the research group he then oversaw) is now known as konzo.But Rosling has done far more since. His latest work asks why governments think it is better to hide their data in silos, and deny its usefulness, in the face of the work that he and his colleagues at the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm, Sweden, where he is professor of international health, are now doing.Rosling excels at bringing potentially dry statistics to life. In his hands, mundane-sounding arcana such as carbon dioxide emissions, gross national income, infant mortality and life expectancy suddenly come to life. Plot one against the other, compare different countries' performance, animate the graph over time, and suddenly one begins to see what has truly changed about the mean income of the population of China compared to that in the US, or the disparities in life expectancy between Latin American countries.The classic example is histalk last year to the TED forum, an annual conference for visionaries about technology, entertainment and design, in which he shows what those statistics can look like when brought to life.The inspiration, he says, was a test he set 10 years ago for incoming students at the Karolinska, in which he asked them to choose which of five pairs of countries had the higher infant mortality. But given the choice of Sri Lanka/Turkey, Poland/South Korea, Malaysia/Russia, Pakistan/Vietnam and Thailand/South Africa, his students got, on average, only 1.8 correct - "demonstrating," as Rosling jokes in the talk, "that Swedish top-level students know statistically significantly less than chimpanzees" since the chimps would choose randomly, getting an average of 2.5."I also did an unethical study asking my fellow professors," he adds, that found them on a par with the chimps. (The countries with the higher child mortality rates are Turkey; Poland; Russia; Pakistan; South Africa.) Why don't people know the correct answers? Because they've never seen them presented usefully. Rosling set about changing that, creating in 2004 a non-profit organisation called Gapminder (gapminder.org) which provides a Flash-based interactive method for generating any sort of graphic from the available statistics for various countries - such as the one above."We find that students get very excited when they can use this, and policy makers and the corporate sector would like to see how the world is changing. Now, why doesn't this take place, why are we not using the data we have? We have data from the UN, from the national statistical agencies, in universities, in non-governmental organisations. Yet all that information we saw changing in the world does not include publicly funded [government] statistics," he told the audience at TED.This, after he had run an animation of how life expectancy plotted against size of family had changed over the past 40 years - with countries from the third world shifting from large, shorter-lived families to smaller, longer-lived ones, and demonstrating that life expectancy improved in Vietnam even during the war there, and that life expectancy and family size there is now comparable with the US in 1974.Rosling answered his own question: "Because the data is hidden down in the databases." Despite the encouragement that the internet provides, and the hunger of the public for better ways to analyse that data, governments are reluctant to open their databases to the world and make them searchable. "People put prices on them and stupid passwords," says Rosling. "And this won't work."It's a laudable aim, and one that Guardian Technology's Free Our Data campaign backs wholeheartedly: there's no benefit in locking away statistics whose use might only become apparent when they're in the hands of a master like Rosling. "What we would like to have," he told the TED audience, "is the databases free, to get them searchable and into the graphics formats where you can easily, instantly understand them." We'll certainly try our best to reach that goal.&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
You might not have heard of HTC, but you'll have certainly seen the company's phones. For the Taiwan-based HTC makes a huge range of Windows Mobile devices including T-Mobile's MDA Vario II, possibly the best smartphone around. The Windows Mobile-based S310 not only has the HTC logo, it is designed to be sold Sim-free - so it can work with any network provider. Sadly, the S310 won't do much to further the HTC brand. It is a standard chocolate bar-style smartphone that has the basics (Outlook, Explorer, Media Player etc) but lacks pizzazz. Up against recent rivals like the MDA Vario and Nokia N73, it really does look dated. The poor quality 1.3 megapixel camera, limited storage space and poor curved keys don't help either. Worst of all is the screen, which is nowhere near as bright as its rivals. Battery life is also poor. So unless buying a Sim-free phone is your number one priority, I'd pass on this.
There are hundreds of companies making speaker systems for the iPod and PSP, but very few manage to deliver products with decent sound. Saitek is clearly one of the better manufacturers. Its wireless PC/iPod system - the iFreedom which I reviewed a couple of months ago - not only works in an innovative way, but also sounds good. The standard hasn't dropped on the rather lower tech A-100. It might be designed ostensibly as a partner for an iPod nano - it comes with a stand for the Apple player - but it can work with any portable device. Sure, it is an odd oval shape, but it delivers the sonic goods with a performance that is clear and underpinned by some real bass. There are, however, a few weak spots. It doesn't have an independent volume control, so you have to use the volume control of the device. And while it can be powered by either batteries or the mains, it doesn't come with a mains lead. Battery life isn't great, with the speaker system running for 12 hours on four AAA batteries before the sound fades. Nevertheless, this is a cute system that works well.
Quad core for moreIntel has added three more quad core chips to its line and is now targeting "anyone's PC".intel.comInternet to goYahoo! has launched a beta version 2.0 of its Go platform for mobile phones. The Java software will be preloaded by partners including Nokia and RIM.go.yahoo.comAre your emails legal?Your corporate website, emails and forms must now include your company registration number, place of registration and registered office address.out-law.com/page-7594Advance to 800In the US, Nokia is selling a new version of its Wi-Fi and Linux-based N770 Internet Tablet, called the Nokia N800.nokiausa.com/N800/On the DottDott 07 (Designs of the time) is a year long educational project about how design can make a positive difference to our lives.dott07.comGet your own planetIt's not every day someone offers you a planet, free. Galaxy Life game testers also get a free Mark II Robot!galaxylife.comZing, not ZuneIn the US, Sansa has unveiled the Sansa Connect digital audio player, developed by Zing. It can use Wi-Fi to access music and streaming radio on the web.streamingmedia.com/pressCanon fire off new camerasCanon is launching two new MiniDV camcorders - the MD101 and MD160 - next month. Two more - the DC201 and DC230 - will arrive in April.canon.co.uk/For_Home/camcorders.aspMultimedia fast food traysMediox has patented trays that allow customers to view interactive content.mediox.com
Adobe security holeI get an "Install now" window during Windows XP SP2 start-up. It says: "Critical security alert - software removal". The only buttons offered are Delete all, Remind me later and Install now. It first appeared as an alleged update for Adobe Reader 7.0.Iain MainJack Schofield replies:This appears to be legitimate. Adobe is trying to get users to update Adobe Reader because "critical vulnerabilities have been identified in Adobe Reader and Acrobat 7.0 through 7.0.8 ... although Adobe is not aware of any specific code exploits at this time". For details of fixes, see Adobe's security bulletin at adobe.com/ support. Adobe recommends upgrading to Adobe Reader 8. This is a somewhat hefty download - 20.8MB from adobe.com/products/acrobat - so you might want to consider an alternative way to read PDF files. Foxit Reader 2.0 is much smaller (about 1.5MB), simpler and faster, can convert PDF files to text, and is also free for non-commercial use. However, it only works with Windows. Download it fromfoxitsoftware.com.Attacking ApachesI have Norton Internet Security 2007, and when I look in the History section, I can see a few "medium risk" intrusion attempts coming from the same computer (named as Daniel) with the same IP address. Norton calls them "HTTP Apache Redundant Slashes DoS".Daniel WhelanJS:This is a denial of service (DoS) attack on very old versions of the Apache web server. You're not running Apache 1.24 or older so it won't affect your PC. However, you could search a Whois service such as DNS Stuff (dnsstuff.com) for the IP address, find out who registered it, and report it to the abuse mailbox.Keystroke loggerIs there a reliable, and preferably free, keystroke logger for Windows XP?Michael JavisJS:Yes, KMint21 Software offers Home Keylogger, which "is intended for interception and recording in a file of everything that is entered from the keyboard. The program is able to work in the hidden mode and to emerge on pressing a combination of keys" (kmint21.com/keylogger). It is simple and free.Limewire questionI have been misled by LimewireUK.com, after putting Limewire into the Google search engine. I assumed this was Limewire and thought I was paying for downloads. Is there anything I can do to get my &pound;40 back?Andrew HallJS:LimewireUK.com was set up on December 8 and is hiding behind a US-based proxy company, DomainsByProxy.com, in Arizona, so you should complain toabuse@domainsbyproxy.com. If you paid by credit card (not by debit card), you can probably dispute the payment and get the credit card company to revoke the charge. Either way, LimewireUK.com does say, at the bottom: "This website has no affiliation whatsoever with the owner of this software program, and provides ONLY a link to the software program." You could therefore consider the &pound;40 as a reminder that "buyer beware" still applies, especially on the web. Limewire is a free peer-to-peer file sharing program, and does not offer any downloads: only users do. Also, if files are copyright, no website can make sharing them legal by providing a link to a copy of Limewire.Backchat&middot;Mike Whittaker asked about using HomePlug plugs to network an Xbox 360 via the electricity mains cable. On the Ask Jack blog, two readers said they had done it, and FrogStar said it was simpler than setting up Wi-Fi. Dave Shoare raised the possible problem of HomePlug devices interfering with radio reception, as suggested in a BBC report (tinyurl.com/rpnbb). But other readers said that they detected no interference.
On the evidence presented at the Month of Apple Bugs site (projects.info-pull.com/moab), one honestly has to answer: no, not really. Which is probably a good thing for Apple, whose new iPhone runs OSX. If you're saying a company's software is full of holes, it looks bad when you're reduced by day 3 to pointing to a weakness in VLC, a cross-platform open-source media viewer. Things weren't much better on days 6, 7 or 8, which showed flaws in the PDF specification - which is hardly an Apple-only issue - in the third-party Omniweb browser (which got fixed the same day) and in a third-party add-on called Application Program Enhancer, which is far from universally used.Yet the reality is that Apple's OSX does have bugs and vulnerabilities which could let a determined attacker do all sorts of things. Among the main classes of exploit are privilege escalation (where OSX lets you do things you're not authorised to), buffer overflows (stuffing too much data into a fixed-size space) and cross-scripting (where the computer lets a program run, wrongly believing it to be something that isn't a program). OSX and Apple's applications are vulnerable - they're computer programs, so must contain flaws - but the question is, are the vulnerabilities serious, and are they widespread? Using the MOAB's data, the answers are "only maybe" and "only the Apple ones".However, it only needs one serious flaw in a universally-used program or the operating system itself and your whole edifice is troubled, which seems to be the case with day 5's flaw, which lets an outsider plant a program on an Apple machine using OSX's inbuilt "package manager". Nor is there yet a fix for the flaw exploited last month (and cited on day 3) in Apple's Quicktime, which led to thousands of MySpace users having theirpasswords stolen.Observers dislike the way these flaws are being exposed: in security circles, publishing the exploit before warning the potentially exploited is akin to farting in church: it's impolite, and people wish you'd give them some warning instead. Dave Marcus, security research and communications manager for McAfee Avert Labs, told eWeek that quite when you should tell people you're about to unleash a vulnerability is "an area of contention" but that "disclosing them in this manner puts users at risk, and that's never a good process".Apple has not yet issued any fixes for the flaws. However, if you're fretting that d00dZ might be out to pwn your Mac, you could visitLandon Fuller's site, where he's trying to offer fixes and soothing noises for each of the MOAB bugs.And after January? Well, Vista is launched at the end of this month, and there's 11 months left in 2007 ...&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Apple to the coreTablet PCs are dead (What Jobs told me on the iPhone, January 4). A regular laptop still prevails as the best tool for the portable user. Until they can perfect handwriting recognition it will only be a toy to play with, and not very useful when you need to write something quickly.John HorvaticSan Francisco&#183;The reason you can't do everything you do at your PC on your mobile phone is because your carrier (at least in the US) still controls both the pipe and the applications. Just like fixed line carriers always have. The result in the fixed line world: the most innovation in the past 100 years has been call waiting.blog.nextblitz.com&#183;I know someone who's a family friend of Steve Jobs. From what she has said about him ... he's a pussycat.psynixis.com/blog&#183;What I find most interesting about Apple/Steve is that he tells everyone else what they want and pulls it off. He's not afraid to tell a customer that they are wrong. It's a completely different approach, and quite successful.titaniumhalo.com/blogGeo-whizz!As a Londoner, and proud of it, I demand my virtual birthright. If Ordnance Survey aren't up to providing it, I suggest we place an ordnance under 'em and be done with the wretches (Copyright fight sinks virtual planning, January 4).opendotdotdot.blogspot.com&#183;Come on Ordnance Survey, sort your out-of-date crown copyright. Reduce your prices to commercial vendors and you will gain more consumers and increase your incomes tenfold.mapperz.blogspot.com&#183;It's interesting to note that the recent surge in geographical computing is built on two types of largely government-funded activity: GPS and satellite photography. It wasn't until the public had free access to acceptable-quality data that industries grew up around them.involve.jisc.ac.ukFuture fantasticA nice example of mispredicting the future (Whatever happened to the future?, January 4) is in the work of Octave Uzanne, who in 1894predicted the end of books and the invention of the Walkman.Dr David ZeitlynUniversity of KentBlue light thinkingI quote your article "Why isn't there a text version of 999?" (October 19). My new Eten X500 smartphone has a feature that sends a text containing an exact GPS position, along with a message. Sending a text often works when reception is too weak for voice (eg. hill walking or at sea) or battery is low.John CadyNot the best optionYour article is correct (Is Steve Jobs Off The Hook? January 4). If the SEC serves him, he will likely settle with them for a few hundred million. He will be banned for life from public companies in regard to executive positions etc. If he gets into trouble criminally, then he will not be consulting. If he just has a problem with the SEC, he will be free to consult, however, he more will likely start a private company to dally in, one that will not go public while he runs it.Cecil KoupalLife force to reckon withSince October, I've been tabulating the numbers listed on Second Life's front page (Are there really 2m people using Second Life?, December 21). It looks like even under the most conservative growth rate, we will see 3.5m users registered and over 600,000 using the service by the end of April 2007. This type of growth supports the contention that Linden Lab is going to be a very strong player in the future.Tristan LouisNew York
Some people have got along quite happily for years without a mobile phone, thank you. When they decide one might be useful, they ask for a simple one. "I just want to make phone calls," they say. "Maybe I'll send a text message."You or I might see this as an opportunity to serve the public and sell them a phone that's easy to use. How laughable! Certain companies see a much better opportunity. Where customers know absolutely nothing about phones, intimidate them enough and they'll buy any old rubbish.The phone industry is subtle. The Nokia 1100 does look simple. It's thin, has a rubbery edge and big keys on a moulded keyboard. It doesn't have a camera or a music player. It looks like a slimmed down version of the Nokia 3310 that everyone had in 2000. So that must make it simple, right?Wrong. It's not simple. It's obsolete. It's old technology being dumped on the vulnerable. In 2000 we used Nokia's 3310 because it was the best thing available. The industry was still learning how to make a usable phone. We suffered with it, we've moved on and we're not going back.Not so the newbie with the 1100. The people most uncertain about technology have plucked up the courage to buy a phone, and had their confidence utterly destroyed. It's a "simple" phone, but the horrid menu structure of the early Nokia makes no sense.It can't store your friends' mobile and work numbers in the same place, like a real phone can. Each number is a separate entry in the contact list, burning up the 250 possible entries faster than you expected. Want to turn predictive text off? You'll have to find someone to do it for you.I can see the torch on the phone is useful. And its 16-day battery life could help in parts of the third world (where Nokia is also dumping it). But calling this a "simple" phone is a step too far. It may use older, simpler technology, but that makes it harder, not easier to use.DOS has fewer features than Windows or the Macintosh, but it's harder to use. The Model T Ford is "simpler" than today's cars, but you need a hand crank to start it. Twin-tub washing machines have no electronics, but I'd rather use a modern front-loader.Nokia, if you want to make an easy phone, don't start with an old one and pretend that makes it easy. Take a nice modern design, remove unnecessary features and test it properly. And T-Mobile, if you're going to unload this stuff on the public, get the price right. &pound;50 for this is a crime.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Technology Guardian: How was Introversion formed?Chris Delay:We were all at the Imperial College in London together, and me, Mark and Johnny were all doing computing. Tom was doing electrical engineering. When university was coming to an end, Uplink [2001] was ready, and we all started thinking about what to do with it.TG: How did you fare selling the game independently?CD:We did OK, actually, and were quite pleased with it. It was our first company, and we did all right, but we didn't really make enough to fund the next game. The turning point came when PC Gamer reviewed Uplink. Before then, no one had really heard of us.TG: Is it true you all still work from home?CD:Yeah, that's true. We've always done it that way, mainly because we haven't been able to afford an office. We just have laptops and meet through Skype. But it's not much of an issue, because there aren't that many developers at Introversion. Of the original directors, it was only me who did the development work on the games. The other two thirds were business and PR. So, there was no real reason for us to liaise on a daily basis, because our own areas don't cross that much. We speak several times a week on Skype and usually meet once a month or so in London, where we have big, day-long, 12-hour meetings.TG: Darwinia [2005], Uplink, and now DEFCON [2006] were released on Valve's digital distribution system, Steam. How has this helped sales?CD:Steam sold as many copies of Darwinia in its first month than we'd sold all the time we'd been running. They have a massive, established audience, so it's a great way to get your game out to a lot of people very quickly.TG: Is online distribution the future for small companies like Introversion?CD:Definitely. I think for a company like ours, retail really is a loser's game.TG: Wouldn't it be easier to be attached to a major publisher?CD:Sure, but Introversion's sort of "unspoken mission" has always been to make really creative games, which means not making deals with big publishers. This way, we can maintain our own creative integrity. A lot of UK game development companies have joined with big publishers to get bigger and more established. The problem with that, though, is that they lose the flexibilities that allowed them to try out the crazy ideas that made them so creative to start with. With Darwinia, we had 18 months of experimentation before we had a real game. And that experimentation really helped to make it very unusual. It would also bankrupt most big game developers.TG: Your games are known for their inorganic, minimalist aesthetic. Why?CD:We don't want to do things that look rubbish; we just don't necessarily want to do things that are photorealistic.TG: Do you think that abandoning the "photorealism race" makes your games more timeless?CD:Absolutely. As a case in point, Uplink still sells now on our website. It actually frequently sells more than Darwinia.TG: DEFCON, your latest title, takes this aesthetic even further: the entire game is based on a single world map. Did this make the game's development cycle less fraught than Darwinia's?CD:Oh, yes. Initially, I actually wanted to make the whole game in one day. I was going to do a massive, 24-hour coding session. I was optimistic because there's no content in DEFCON; it's the exact opposite of realism; it's total abstraction. We didn't even draw the world map - there was world map data freely available with all the city data in the world. So, it was just a matter of sorting that data off the internet, and then [rendering] the map into DEFCON's lovely, low-quality vector style.TG: But it didn't end up taking a day to build, did it?CD:No. I did it for a few days, realising it was going to take a bit longer, but after seven days, actually, I had a fully working prototype and multiplayer - you could play it over a local area network. But this was back in 2003. We were still developing Darwinia, and I'd become a bit bored with it. The total time it took was probably about a year from start to finish, and that included about five months of testing.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
CBS News got an iPhone demo from Apple, which has turned up on YouTube. (There's also a video report on theCBS Newssite: good luck finding it.) (Update: link is in comments!)One worrying thing in the demo is the insistence on flicking up and down to find things. There must be another way. Scrolling is either impractical or sub-optimal once you have substantial number of contacts -- eg 1,000. You need at least the ability to go to the first letter (Update: You can: see comments and video) or use voice recognition.I'd also like to see someone operate the iPhone one-handed, which is how a lot of people seem to use their phones.....
The fall-out from the Super Columbine controversy continues. Since Alekscovered iton Wednesday andI chipped in todaywith my Technology column, things have moved on with several other competitors from the Slamdance Games competition dropping out in protest.One developer and finalist, Jason Rohrer, haswritten an open letterto the remaining entrants pleading with them not to follow suite: "Everyone seems to be pulling out now, and I don't think it's the best move. That just leads to silence, and what we need is discussion."Hmm, I'm not sure the many thousands of lines of blog coverage the protests have prompted constitutes silence - I'd say it has kept the story on the global agenda. The alternative was to protest to a roomful of people at the festival itself - worthy, perhaps, but unlikely to capture the attention or imagination of the blogging public.So far my favourite coverage of the upset has been on game designer Greg Costikyan's blog, Game * Design * Art * Culture. First he ran his owndefense of Super Columbine, then the next day a friend's rathercutting and critical antithesis.As far asvideogame scandalsgo, this is a hell of a lot more interesting and relevant than Hot Coffee.
Every year, CNet has a Best in Show competition at CES, and this year,the 30 top contendersincluded the Nokia N76, SanDisk Sansa Connect, Asus W5Fe SideShow Notebook. and the Microsoft-licensed Reclusa gamer's keyboard.The winnernominated by CNet was the LG BH100 system (below), which plays both HD DVD and Blu-ray movies, with Ford Sync powered by Microsoft taking the People's Voice award. Windows Vista won the Computers and hardware category. Apple's iPhone failed to win anything by not turning up, leaving us with the odd problem that the most memorable product of CES 2007 was one that wasn't there.
Today has been like one glorious trip down memory lane for me. First, the discovery that Sega has just officially announced Crazy Taxi: Fare Wars, a PSP translation of Crazy Taxi 1 and 2, complete with all the original modes and mini-games.Sniper Studios, the Californian studio handling the conversion, is also adding a two-player Ad Hoc mode where cab drivers take part either co-operatively or competitively. Correct me if I'm wrong, but no one has really taken up the comedy driving baton since Sega's series - at least with anything worth playing - so it's a good time to re-discover these fun, but incredibly challenging titles.Also, I got home from work tonight to find Sega had sent me a copy of its new retro smorgasbord, The Mega Drive Collection, complete with over 30 titles including Sonic, Shinobi III, Golden Axe, VectorMan, Ecco and Phantasy Star. I know these releases tend to divide opinion somewhat, but I've no PC to run emulators on so this is a great chance for me to re-live the early nineties without actually getting my Mega Drive out of the loft.
Just as those awaiting a heavyweight clash between the two next-generation DVD standards were getting ready for another bout, South Korea's LG made a surprise entrance into the ring.Instead of putting its weight behind Blu-ray or HD-DVD, however, LG chose the classic gambler's tactic: bet on both sides. Throwing optical lenses that can read both sorts of disc into the same machine, LG threw caution to the wind - and its membership of the Blu-ray consortium into doubt.The company's chief technology officer, HG Lee, articulated popular feeling about the latest format war."Most customers feel confused," he said. "They are not really sure which format player they want to buy. LG has been a member of the Blu-ray disc association, but last year we recognised that the two formats were here to stay."The initial price for the player will be $1199 (&pound;620) when it arrives in the US next month. That is marginally higher than Blu-ray players, but analysts expect the cost to drop sharply if it helps drive uptake of high definition formats.Despite questions over whether HD discs of any kind are a white elephant, most experts welcomed the development. "I think it's a good thing," said Gerry Kaufhold, an analyst with In-Stat market research. "It means that eventually any disc will play in any player, and it almost defuses the whole battle."The move was backed up by a further move by engineers at Warner Bros studios, who have devised a single disc which can carry both formats simultaneously.It is not coincidence that LG and Warner Bros have chosen Las Vegas as the venue for their olive branch announcements. Just one year ago it was here that the rival factions launched all out attacks on each other, using the CES to kick off their campaigns of attrition.But despite the threat of peace breaking out, LG didn't stop the fists from flying entirely. Toshiba continued to cheerlead its HD-DVD standard, while the members of the Blu-ray consortium tried landing their blows.It looks like this fight could stick for a while longer - even if the only people with enough stamina to see it through are the electronics companies themselves.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Let joy be unconfined! Hitachi has announced that it will introduce, in the next three months, a one-terabyte drive for desktop computers. Just to expand, that's one thousand gigabytes of storage, which you'll be able to buy for about $400 in the US (and, if experience is any guide, &pound;400 in the UK), or about 40c/GB. Seagate plans a similar 1TB delight by the summer.In a roundabout way, their arrival will help determine which of the high-definition DVD formats wins out. Now, some might ask "what could one possibly do with 1,000GB of storage?" The answer: whatever you like. The blossoming of online video means more and more big files to store, and nowhere to keep them unless we burn them to CD or, increasingly, DVD. With a 1TB drive, we'll be able to store camcorder footage, or those clips of the cat on the toilet off YouTube, and watch them when we like.We'll be able to rip our DVDs to that big hard drive, working as a server, and play them on any TV set in our (networked, of course) house at any time. Even a dual-layer DVD like Pirates of the Caribbean II is only 7.5GB, so you'd have room for 130 of those. Microsoft's Home Server concept (see our CES coverage on page 3) runs in exactly this direction. But when preparing to leap onto a promising bandwagon, always check how badly you'll get hurt if, or when, you fall off. What if that vast drive dies before you've replaced it? Something like that happened to one of the team here the other day. He has a 400GB drive in his desktop machine, which he'd only managed to three-quarters fill. Pfft! In the time it takes for a set of reading heads to graffiti their name across a layer of magnetic material, or a few dozen bits to flip polarity, your digital memories are gone."You kept backups, though, didn't you?" ask the technically-minded. What, of 300GB of data? Who's got the time? If you burnt it painstakingly onto DVD-R, that would be 60-odd discs. Easier not to, which means a lot of lost video clips, music files, and photos.What to do? At this point the geek- erati start mumbling things like "RAID striping" - where you get lots of cheap hard drives (a "redundant array of inexpensive disks") each keeping an identical copy of your precious data. But that entails either buying two 1TB drives or setting one up as two virtual drives, halving its effective size.To the average person, the idea of setting up anything as RAID, and thus doubling the drive's effective cost (but not quite doubling its value as a backup, since the whole thing could still burst into flames) will always be less attractive than living on the edge in the hope that your drive will go on for long enough to be supplanted by a bigger one. The shiny DVD will remain the backup, just as the original CDs remain the backup for our MP3s. But we're downloading more and more stuff which might not have a shiny disc source, or at least not one we can find.Salvation lies in the next-generation DVD formats. Not, however, in the way that the electronics makers want to tout to us. They'd like us to buy read-only high-definition discs that can store between 15GB and 50GB, and cost around $1/GB. Sorry, but that's useless to me. I want writable ones - for making backups. It's nice of Hitachi and Seagate to tempt us with so much space to fill. But we need sturdy egg boxes to put all our high-tech, personal eggs. If you want to know who'll win the high-def DVD war, it's the one which offers a writable version first. Geeks will leap on it for their hefty backups. It'll sell. And the market will take over. Meanwhile, I'll start saving up for that terabyte drive.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
On the opening day of Congress last week, Republican George Miller (California) held a press conference in Second Life (SL), the 3-D internet world that has been getting a lot of publicity. He rightly referred to SL as "the next frontier" and urged others to use it to expand public participation. Endorsement from Congress marks another milestone in the development of virtual worlds, which are the most interesting web invention since search engines.I have immersed myself of late in SL and it is mightily impressive, despite some outages. If 2007 is the year of user-generated content, then content doesn't come more user-generated than in SL where everything is created by its citizens. The only constraint is the limits of imagination. When it started it was just (virtual) acres of barren land on which residents have been building houses, shops, casinos and lap dancing clubs with lots of educational opportunities en route. It could, of course, be a nine-month wonder as people gawp and move on. The upside is that such worlds could evolve into major economies in their own right providing employment for thousands, if not millions, of people.When I wrote about it in July it had 333,000 "residents" (people who have acquired one or more of their own 3D avatars) but now it has over 2.4m, and counting, even though there are rarely more than 20,000 active online at any one moment (that's over five times more than a year ago). About $1m (&pound;517,000) is being traded each day in SL.Last week I put my money where my mouth was by moving &pound;100 from a (real life) savings account to buy SL's virtual currency, Linden Dollars, to purchase more land. This was either a sensible portfolio diversification or an act of craziness. I should have done the deed a month earlier because - wait for it - property prices increased by 24% in December, partly because of what may be a temporary, artificial shortage of land. This could turn out to be cyberspace's South Sea Bubble. Friends look at me askance when I tell them I paid 995 Linden Dollars (about &pound;19) for each 512 sq metres of land, which only exists in computer code. But someone has got to play the guinea pig.We are midwives at the birth of virtual economies in which people trade land, sell products, pay to have sassily attired avatars or just do their own creative thing. One of my SL neighbours (from Australia) sells her own paintings and those of others in a virtual gallery and is planning an interactive sculpture park backing on to my garden. Another neighbour who has built a club and who doesn't speak English gesticulated to me that one of my walls was protruding into his living room. His avatar was bigger than mine - so we settled out of court.I have been creating an art garden partly by using SL's inventory of trees and grasses and by uploading photographs of my own garden to merge with the undergrowth. Like so much of the internet, it would be quite simple to do if only you didn't have to waste hours finding the right instruction.Second Life is one of many virtual worlds such as Cyworld of South Korea (said to make $1m profit a day), there.com and the Gothenburg-based MindArk, whose members can withdraw virtual money from a real-life ATM. SL's killer app is that unlike others such as the stunning World of Warcraft, you keep legal ownership of what you create or buy. That is why I would back it - it has already produced its first dollar millionaire - or something similar to pull down the boundaries between a virtual economy and a real one. There is of course a danger that the company behind SL (or the others) could crash, causing hundreds of thousands to lose money and thereby generating a political furore. But I'm sure Gordon Brown has a contingency plan for that.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
When Bill Gates stepped onto the stage at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) this week, he was preceded by a video montage. Making his 10th and penultimate appearance as the opening keynote speaker, Gates showed off his finest self-mocking moments - alongside Napoleon Dynamite (in 2006), dressed as Austin Powers (2000), and an amusing reel of crucial technology jargon (see ithere).Gates may well use the word "devices" too much, but another he uses a lot is "neat". He employed it to describe Vista, the new version of Windows, which was shown off to the kind of whoops from the audience that usually greet a rock god. He also used it when talking about the promise of the "digital decade".Another buzzword, used by his Redmond sidekicks, was "connected". This year, says Microsoft, is all about delivering content across a range of platforms, whether in your car, on your TV, or via your Xbox 360 or mobile phone.Key to this delivery of content is the Microsoft Home Server, a version of which is being developed with HP. Anyone who's ever dealt with a corporate IT department will groan at the mere thought of managing a server: it's a phrase to strike fear into the heart of the most dedicated geek. But the Home Server, as described by Gates, looks like an obvious idea.Networking at homeAccording to Gates, 40% of American homes have more than one PC, and data - photographs, music, movies - that they want to share via computers and other gadgets. The Home Server, which will come to market later this year, promises to make everything on every PC in the house available to any other device on the network, either on site or remotely, and also automatically back up data. The catch though is that those PCs must be running Vista, the latest version of Windows, which launches on January 29.Later in the year, connection will extend to your car. Mark Fields, executive vice-president of Ford, joined Gates to launch Sync, which will run on the "Microsoft Auto" platform. This, developed with Ford, extends Microsoft's reach into your car with a voice control of various gadgets, including Microsoft's new Zune MP3 player and mobile phones.There was a collective intake of breath from the audience when Fields, listing the gadgets that would work with Sync, included Apple's iPod. Would Gates snarl at the four-letter word? But no, he seemed barely to respond.Fields quickly moved on to describe how Sync will offer hands-free dialling, synchronisation with your mobile's address book and voice control of your MP3 player. The system will, he said, even read your text messages to you, although he didn't explain how that will be implemented. Sync will be available in the US from the second half of this year.Elsewhere, the Xbox 360 took the connected buzz and ran with it. Robbie Bach, in charge of Microsoft's entertainment division, was bullish about the prospects for living room dominance. That strategy is focusing increasingly on the Xbox 360, which has sold 10.4m units since being released a year ago.TV through the Xbox?Increased connectivity will let Xbox Live hook up to Vista PCs, plugging the popular gaming network into another huge base of users. But the crucial step forward could be the arrival of internet-based TV on the console. By turning the Xbox into a TV-based media hub, Gates and his team are finally beginning to fulfil the oft-touted promise for living room technology.The biggest wow, however, was saved for Vista and its close cousin, Office 2007, also being launched at the end of the month. The new version of Windows has been widely discussed, but a couple of clever features were shown for the first time by Justin Hutchinson, Microsoft's group product manager.He showed off how an earlier version of a document can be rescued easily with a couple of clicks and made to look attractive with the quick application of visual styles, or themes. Flashy, but effective.And those who buy the Ultimate version of Vista will have access to a series of add-ons, Windows Ultimate Extras, which will be delivered online via Windows Updates. One example is Dreamscene, which gives users the visually arresting (although for most people pointless) option of having a movie file as their desktop wallpaper.Other moments fell a little flatter: the push for the ultra-mobile PC seemed to capture few imaginations, indicating that the gizmo is doomed to the same niche markets as the tablet before it.But Gates took a moment to point out that the speech was packed full of real product: something that may have appealed to those who have grown used to delays on projects like Vista. The promise of a year of hyperactivity ahead sent an important message to the crowd - and the only thing left for Microsoft is to try to connect the dots between their ambitions and their customers.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Steve Jobs stumbled a couple of times, calling it "iTV" - the codename given when the product was flashed before an audience last September - but on Tuesday he finally showed off the "Apple TV". It's a device that will stream content from up to five computers in a house to a high-definition TV set, either through an Ethernet connection or wirelessly using the new (and barely complete) 802.11n standard, which gives data transfers of up to 540 megabits per second over roughly 50m.The biggest buzz, of course, came with the long-awaited launch of the "iPhone" - which apparently retained that name despite Cisco and its Linksys subsidiary already having a trademark of the same name. That is not due to appear in the UK before the autumn, though its considerable drool factor - a touch- and gesture-controlled phone/iPod/Wi-Fi device - will probably see many Britons visiting the US to buy it for bragging rights alone.But the Apple TV, with its built-in 40GB hard drive, puts the final piece in place of Apple's "digital hub" concept, first enunciated by Jobs five years ago at the same Macworld venue in San Francisco.The Apple TV also offers internet connectivity, linking to Apple's site to show film trailers. The US price will be $299, with shipping there planned to start in February; for the UK the price is &pound;199 (including VAT), with shipping also scheduled for February.The product, though, will face competition in the US from Netgear, which announced a similar product at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, while Sling Media announced its Slingcatcher, which will work as a remote receiver for streamed TV sent over the net. In the UK, too, there are already well-placed rivals including British Telecom, with its BT Vision service, which includes a 160GB drive, two digital TV receivers, and video on demand via broadband. Sky, too, has a broadband service which it aims to expand to video on demand.Meanwhile, with a number of analysts and bloggers having questioned how well the iTunes Store was faring at selling music, Jobs told the Macworld audience that it has sold 2bn songs, and was now the fourth-largest seller of music in the US - ahead of Amazon: "We are now selling over five million songs a day."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The US Department of Defence has found some of its contractors have been bugged by planting an RFID chip in a coin their pockets, saysCBC News. Well, they are Canadian coins...."On at least three separate occasions between October 2005 and January 2006, cleared defence contractors' employees travelling through Canada have discovered radio frequency transmitters embedded in Canadian coins placed on their persons," the report says.Chris Mathers, a security consultant and former undercover RCMP officer, makes the obvious point: "From a technology perspective, it makes no sense," he said. "To me it's very strange."But the idea could be very handy if you frequently lose change down the back of your sofa....
There are few mysteries - like the unexplained disappearance of the Mayan civilisation - that are as baffling as those posed by technology. But ranking among these conundrums is, why on earth does it take so long to connect to a new broadband provider? One feels, had the Mayans survived, they'd have found a way of doing what BT takes two weeks to do in a matter of Mexican moments.What many people find perplexing is that when you move house, the water, electricity and gas remain on, and the telephone can be working that same day - assuming you order in advance. But for a broadband connection you'll typically have to wait up to a fortnight. In the meantime, it's back to dial-up, which after a high-speed always-on connection feels like an electronic water torture.To find out why getting hooked up to a fast connection is such a slow process, I went inside a BT telephone exchange, where I was surrounded by the metal shelves of the main distribution frame (MDF), a giant rack around three metres high and 10 metres long. It's lined with hundred of paperback-size connection blocks. Each of the newer, off-white blocks, with its code number written in felt tip on the shelf below, contains the ends of 100 telephone lines from somewhere in Sheldon, a suburb of Birmingham. If you order a broadband connection, the act of physically connecting it - the cause of so much, sometimes frustrating, delay - takes place somewhere like this.So what has to be done, and why does it take so long? BT exchange construction worker Alan Phillips has worked on the systems for 36 years. He points to the off-white blocks: with these, connection requires a technician to feed a 0.5mm green-and-yellow "jumper" wire through a 1mm-square hole, where its plastic coating is automatically cut.Joining the dotsIf a line terminates in a black block - several decades old, with a neatly hand-painted shelf number - the technician will need to solder the wire on. Work in exchanges is split between BT Wholesale staff, such as Phillips, and BT Openreach. Wholesale resells broadband to another BT division, Retail, and to anyone else who wants its service. Openreach is responsible for the lines from the exchange to customers' homes, on behalf of all communications providers.Phillips is happy to explain the fiddly process. He picks up a short length of stick with a hole in it, through which he threads a jumper wire. A technician connects the wire on the MDF's exchange side - which links to internet service providers' equipment elsewhere in the exchange - and unspools it up or down channels to the customer's line. The stick is then pushed like a giant needle through the middle of the frame and threaded to the customer's connection block. Once connected, the jumper wires drop out of the way behind the blocks, looking like a river of brightly-coloured vermicelli.This MDF is old-fashioned compared to the exchange's other equipment. The ranks of metal cabinets holding the System X call-switching equipment upstairs may bear BT's old circular logo, but instead of the loud clatter once generated by exchanges, they patter like rain on a window. And the seven cabinets owned by communications providers, including BT Wholesale, for broadband and non-BT telephone services, are right up to date. About two metres high and wide, these contain equipment including DSlams - digital subscriber line access multiplexes, which combine a provider's traffic into streams of data. But the way one of Sheldon's 20,000 telephone lines gets to a DSlam is through a strand of vermicelli wrapped across the MDF.Phillips says this frame is easier to work on than others: "Some are a lot taller," he says, and have gangways for the higher levels, rather like the inside of a prison. "We do get a bit of time off for good behaviour," he quips.Connecting takes timeSo why do customers have to wait so long for broadband? It's just that it's a manual process. Each connection takes roughly 30 minutes, and only two technicians can work on an MDF of this size at once - there's simply not the room.BT Openreach gets four working days to do this process and update around 40 databases. So why does the customer have to suffer a two-week wait?As of last week, 10m customers were connected to broadband through their local telephone exchange, which is twice the target BT set itself for the end of 2006. When it announced its 5m target back in April 2002, fewer than 150,000 lines were connected. Connections usually take around two weeks, and many are delayed for longer by "a tag on the line", the subject of more than half of all complaints made to communications regulator Ofcom in the year to September 2006, a staggering 1,000 calls a week.Irate Tiscali customer Cliff Thornton signed up last July on the promise of a 14-day connection. He was finally connected six months later. He fumed: "They blamed BT, the line, the exchange - just about everything. It's absurd, outrageous."A "tag" indicates some outstanding problem. Richard Morecroft, group programme director at Carphone Warehouse, says these include an uncancelled broadband service on the line, BT's use of incompatible equipment such as fibre-optic links from an exchange to a group of copper lines, or inaccurate records.BT has set up a helpline for both communications providers and customers affected by tags (0800 169 9576).From February 14, the watchdog will require providers to connect or transfer broadband services "within a reasonable period" and "with minimal loss of the broadband service". Bates explains: "On tags, that high-level obligation means that every broadband provider has to do everything in its power to make sure problems don't happen, and if they do, that they are fixed pretty quickly."Also by mid-February, Ofcom will force providers to give customers a Migration Authorisation Code (MAC) for free, to help those transferring an existing broadband service. When passed to the new supplier, a MAC should allow broadband to be transferred with minimal interruption to service. But the drawback is that providing and accepting the codes is voluntary at present.Quoting a MAC provides evidence that the customer wants the replacement service. One problem with faster installation of new services is that it could boost "slamming", where salespeople forge a customer's application. Morecroft says that one reason for the 10 working days required to transfer both broadband and telephone services to Carphone Warehouse is so the "losing" telecoms provider can get in touch with the customer - not to try to persuade them against moving, but so the customer can stop the order if it was faked or made in error.This aside, new connections could be made faster as better equipment is installed in exchanges.Carphone Warehouse is technically able to transfer a customer of its fully unbundled broadband and telephone service to a new local address within minutes - if this is connected to the same exchange, and if the previous tenant also used Carphone Warehouse - although Morecroft says the firm is not yet offering this.However, he adds that even if BT also becomes capable of switching services so quickly, and slamming could be guarded against, Carphone Warehouse would still want two or three days to send a modem and a letter with login details.On BT's current performance, Morecroft adds: "Generally, I think it's happening as fast as can be reasonably expected."&#183; What happens abroad?Broadband turns pairs of copper wires designed for analogue telephones into a conduit for digital services. But unless that copper wire infrastructure was installed quite recently, it is likely to rely on a physical MDF in many countries.There is a digital alternative - the Active MDF - that can change connections using software alone.But Tim Johnson, chief executive of analyst Point Topic, says that by 1990 Western Europe had virtually 100% coverage of telephone lines, and as a result few telephone exchanges have been built since. So, few Active MDFs."Some parts of the world do have significant numbers of Active MDFs, particularly in Asia-Pacific," he says, as a lot of exchanges have been built recently to cope with growing demand.One member of his staff, who previously worked on placement for a Hong Kong telco, was shocked when he saw an old-style British MDF.The UK's two-week wait is better than some countries with a legacy of older exchanges, but worse than others. AT&amp;T in California tells broadband customers moving house that "service may be restored in as few as 10 working days" at a new address.France Telecom, which provides broadband services in several countries, says that it takes 15 to 20 working days to install in Spain, although only four to five working days in France.&#183; What happens when you order a new service&#183;Customer orders a new broadband or telephone service.&#183;Communications provider checks for a "tag on the line", using a common industry database. If one exists, the provider will ask BT Wholesale to clear the problem, or suggest the customer does so. Progress can only be made when this is sorted.&#183;The communications provider will then order a broadband service from BT Wholesale, which the provider resells under its own name - unless the broadband provider is BT itself. For a provider other than BT, if it has equipment in that exchange, it will order the line to be either partially transferred (for broadband only) or fully transferred (for phone and broadband). Carphone Warehouse places orders taken that day overnight.&#183;BT gives the provider a go-live date for the chosen service , and schedules the relevant work, including the physical connection on the exchange's main distribution frame. The line will be connected to either BT Wholesale's broadband equipment or the provider's own, depending on the order.&#183;If the order is for both phone and broadband, the "losing" provider writes to inform the customer of the move, in case this is a mistake or fraudulent.&#183;The new provider, working back from the go-live date, sends the customer any necessary equipment and a letter with instructions a few days in advance. Carphone Warehouse tells customers the service will be live the day after the actual date, as it may not go live until late in the evening.&#183;The service goes live, and the communications provider starts billing.If you'd like to commenton any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The annualGame Developers Choice Awardsare an opportunity for folks in the games industry to recognise their peers for their great work over the previous year. If you're a member of theIGDA, you have the opportunity to nominate teams, products and individuals for the accolades, but you'd better do it fast. I was remiss in posting this information, and the nominations close tomorrow. Oops.Get to it!For those who aren't registered with the IGDA, do share your thoughts on who you think should be nominated. As one of the members of the steering committee, I have the chance to nominate after the nominations, and so can share your ideas during the debate process. Thecategoriesare...Best Game Innovation New Studio Audio Character Design Game Design Technology Visual Arts WritingPlease do think outside of the proverbial (console) box. I'm also extremely keen to get recognition for international contributions, so send in your suggestions for the Best of British 2006! Hopefully we'll see the results of your efforts at the awards ceremony, which takes place alongside theIndependent Games Festivalat the Game Developers Conference in March.
I get an "Install now" window during Windows XP SP2 start-up. It says: "Critical security alert - software removal". The only buttons offered are Delete all, Remind me later and Install now. It first appeared as an alleged update for Adobe Reader 7.0. Iain MainThis appears to be legitimate. Adobe is trying to get users to update Adobe Reader because "critical vulnerabilities have been identified in Adobe Reader and Acrobat 7.0 through 7.0.8 ... although Adobe is not aware of any specific code exploits at this time". For details of fixes, see Adobe's security bulletin athttp://www.adobe.com/support/security/bulletins/apsb06-20.htmlAdobe recommends upgrading to Adobe Reader 8. This is a somewhat hefty download -- 20.8MB fromhttp://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/readstep2.html-- so you might want to consider an alternative way to read PDF files. Foxit Reader 2.0 is much smaller (about 1.5MB), simpler and faster, can convert PDF files to text, and is also free for non-commercial use. However, it only works with Windows. Download it fromhttp://www.foxitsoftware.com/pdf/rd_intro.php
I have Norton Internet Security 2007, and when I look in the History section, I can see a few "medium risk" intrusion attempts coming from the same computer (named as Daniel) with the same IP address. Norton calls them "HTTP Apache Redundant Slashes DoS". Daniel WhelanThis is a denial of service (DoS) attack on very old versions of the Apache web server, and works by repeatedly requesting addresses that contain ////////////// to overload the server. You're not running Apache 1.24 or older so it won't affect your PC. However, you could search a Whois service such as DNS Stuff (http://www.dnsstuff.com/and scroll down) for the IP address, find out who registered it, and report it to the abuse mailbox.Backchat: Unlike me, Karl Wilcox, a lecturer in computer science, noticed that the attacking computer was also called Daniel. He deduces that Daniel "has loaded a page containing a link (probably an image link) which contains lots of slashes, something like .../images//////picture.gif. You get these sometimes from generated page links or sloppy editing. Daniel's PC loads the original page, then tries to load the image which Norton Internet Security interprets as an attack. Same thing happened to me!"Many thanks, Karl!
Is there a reliable, and preferably free, keystroke logger for Windows XP? Michael JavisYes, KMint21 Software offers Home Keylogger, which "is intended for interception and recording in a file of everything that is entered from the keyboard. The program is able to work in the hidden mode and to emerge on pressing a combination of keys" (http://www.kmint21.com/keylogger/). It is simple and free, and KMint hopes it will encourage you to buy its more sophisticated Family Keylogger ($29).Although mainly sold via sites such as Spy Arsenal (http://www.spyarsenal.com), KMint21 also presents keystroke loggers as a way of guarding against accidental loss of data.
I have been misled by LimewireUK.com, after putting Limewire into the Google search engine. I assumed this was Limewire and thought I was paying for downloads. Is there anything I can do to get my £40 back? Andrew HallLimewireUK.com was set up on December 8 and is hiding behind a US-based proxy company,DomainsByProxy.com, in Arizona, so you should complain to abuse@domainsbyproxy.com.If you paid by credit card (not by debit card), you can probably dispute the payment and get the credit card company to revoke the charge.Either way, LimewireUK.com does say, at the bottom: "This website has no affiliation whatsoever with the owner of this software program, and provides ONLY a link to the software program." You could therefore consider the £40 as a reminder that "buyer beware" still applies, especially on the web.Limewire is a free peer-to-peer file sharing program, and does not offer any downloads: onlyusersdo. Also, if files are copyright, no website can make sharing them legal by providing a link to a copy of Limewire.
Despite going on sale in Japan three weeks after the PS3, Nintendo's Wii outsold the PS3 in both companies' home territory by more than two to one, according tothis story in the New York Times(login required), quoting Japanese estimates.Enterbrain, a Tokyo-based video game magazine publisher, released sales estimates in Japan today that showed Sony fell far short of its goal of selling one million PlayStation 3 consoles here last year. Sony sold 534,336 units between their debut in Japan on Nov. 11 and Jan. 7, Enterbrain said.By contrast, Enterbrain reported that rival Nintendo sold 1.14 million units of its less expensive new game console, Wii, by the same date, despite going on sale three weeks after PlayStation. Microsoft's Xbox 360, which has had limited success breaking into the Japanese market, has sold 311,053 units since arriving in December 2005, Enterbrain said....The Japanese sales estimates came just days after Sony announced that it had met its goal of shipping one million PlayStation 3s to the United States by the end of last year. That announcement was made on the opening day of the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, where Sony is showcasing PlayStation 3.However, analysts point out that the American figure only reflects shipments to retailers, not actual purchases by consumers.And that last could be important. The Wiii has terrific word-of-mouth. It pulls in people who wouldn't be in the least interested in a games console. Which means a potential buyer if that person is an adult. Tell me, how would you sell the PS3 to an adult who's not interested in games? With Blu-ray? But who's going to hitch their horse to a high-def format that's not a winner and whose discs cost tons more than a DVD?Let me add my own perspective here. Nobody is ever going to mistake me for a rabid console maniac (even though my first computer programming was to write a game on a Commodore PET - so, guessmyage). But I think the Wii defines the next generation of console. It doesn't matter how powerful your product is if it doesn't do what it needs to.That's why I compare the Wii to Wi-Fi. I first tried out Wi-Fi in September 2000, when most of us (including me) were on dialup connectivity. What, disbelievers asked, was the point in having a wireless Ethernet when your internet connection was running at one-twentieth the speed? But wireless, and the freedom it confers, is a boon in itself, and as the rest of the technology catches up, wireless becomes even more useful.Once you've used it, you don't want to go back.The comparison struck me when I was trying out the Nintendo Wii with its Bluetooth- and infrared-control remotes, which let you "play" games such as tennis, golf, baseball and bowling by doing what you'd really do — move your arms and body about. Many gamers say dismissively that Nintendo's audience are "just kids".But the Wii instantly makes the PS3 and Xbox 360 look like the mainframes of the past, stuck in an old paradigm. And today's kids, of course, are tomorrow's console buyers too.If I were at Sony, I'd be rather worried, and have a crash team working on lending the PS3 some Wii-ness, to go on saleright away. And if there isn't someone out there writing a Star Wars game for the Wii, complete with light sabre duels, I'd just like to say: start now and you'll make a killing next Christmas.(Sorry, a problem where people couldn't comment on this now fixed, I hope.)
As soon as I saw Steve Jobs demonstrating the iPhone, I suspected it didn't have an Intel x86 or IBM PowerPC chip inside: they'd probably consume too much power, and get far too hot. Soduring the keynote, I wrote:It's also hard to imagine doing this on an Intel or PowerPC chip -- even a slow one. Has Apple ported OS X to the ARM chip? (The ARM was used in the Apple Newton and Apple was one of ARM's founding shareholders when it was spun out of Acorn.) If not, have you got a better suggestion?The two most likely options seemed to be aTransmetachip -- those have not been very successful -- or an ARM. The ARM seemed the most likely candidate because ARM-compatible chips dominate the handheld market -- they are used by RIM, Palm (Treo), and all the Windows Mobile phones -- and because of the tie-in with the Newton. (And I certainly know the ARM can run Unix because I still have anAcorn Archimedesworkstation in my loft, from the 1980s.)The irony is that it could still be an "Intel" chip, if Apple used the Intel XScale version of the ARM.The point is that ARM does not make chips, it licenses technology. However, back in the days, one of the licensees was Digital Equipment Corp, which developed the StrongARM processor. But Compaq bought DEC, and Compaq didn't want a chip division, so the StrongARM guys were acquired by Intel. There, they developed the StrongARM into the XScale, which was a success.So it all might seem straightforward: Apple dumps the PowerPC line and moves to Intel, which offers both x86 and ARM-compatible Risc processors. But it doesn't.Here's another irony. For whatever reason, Intel offloaded its ARM division to Marvell Technology Group in June "for a purchase price of $600 million plus the assumption by Marvell of certain liabilities". TheMarvell press releasesays:Intel intends to continue manufacturing products currently sold by this business for handheld devices and embedded applications, and to manufacture products that are being designed into upcoming devices. This arrangement is expected to continue while Marvell arranges other manufacturing resources. Intel and Marvell do not anticipate disruptions in the supply of these products due to this planned sale.But if Intel knew that Apple was designing XScale chips into what could be a blockbuster product, would it have flogged off its XScale division?There's another possibility. Apple used to get chips from Motorola (68000, then PowerPC). Motorola spun off its chip division as Freescale, with Apple as a customer, and Freecale is also an ARM licensee. The iPhone development could therefore have started with an ARM-compaitble chip from Freescale.....So is it Freescale, Intel, Marvell, or someone else entirely?It could even be Apple, because Apple could license the ARM core directly, just like anyone else. However,unlessApple did this, we can be sure it's no use asking ARM.Footnote: I forgot this, butEE Timeswas quick to post a list of the chip companies expected to benefit from the iPhone .. but it doesn't include the processor.
It started some time last week. A small click, or creak, when I pedalled. I tried to ignore it, hoping it would go away. And it did - intermittently. Then it would come back.I knew I'd have to deal with it, but wasn't in a rush. Creaking noises from around the bottom bracket (which houses the main axle) are notoriously difficult to diagnose and fix. The last time I got a new bike, it had a BB creak. I took it back after a few days, and the shop's mechanic stripped down the unit and refitted it after giving everything an extra layer of lubrication. It's not uncommon, apparently, to get this phenomenon with aluminium alloy frames and the steel cups - the two different metal faces protest at meeting, and sometimes even a buffer of lithium grease can't soothe the initial frisson. In my case, it did seem to be sorted, until I went out on a very hot day and it started creaking again. But then it seemed to bed in, and the creaking stopped. Go figure.Creaking is bad enough. But nothing gets under your skin like squeaking. There are two common sources. The first is a dry chain. I daily pass commuters riding bikes with squeaking chains. It's a crime against bikes; you should be able to report it to social services. I want to say, "Haven't you heard of oil?" or, more desperately, "Please oil your chain." But the honest truth is that I find the sound so painful - worse than fingernails being dragged across a blackboard - that I hurry on by. But they're going to bike hell, those people.The other common squeak comes from dry jockey wheels. These are the two small plastic pulley discs that guide the chain through the derailleur mechanism. There's more excuse for letting these go dry than there is for running a dry chain. Being plastic, they don't need as much care and their crude roller bearings are not going to suffer much for lacking lube.But when they squeak, they sing like a canary. About a year ago, I rode from London to Canterbury, the route of stage one of this year's Tour de France. My jockey wheels started squeaking somewhere around Erith, along the Thames estuary. I had to find a bike shop in Gravesend and beg for a squirt of WD40 because the prospect of going another 100 miles with that singsong twitter was more than my sanity would have borne. I would have rather walked, like Chaucer's pilgrims.A loved bike is a quiet bike. When they are working well, bicycles should be almost silent, emitting just a low hum, a purr of mechanical contentment.So my creak? I found out what it was on Sunday morning, I'm ashamed to admit, when the left crank started to fall off. (Fortunately, I had a toolkit on board.) But the lesson is, listen to your bicycle: it may be trying to tell you something.Bike docDear Matt, The front forks of my bike have started to judder when I put on the front brake. The bike shop has had a (cursory) look at it and claims it is because I am quite big (6ft 8in and 17 stone) and the bike has a large frame: nothing to worry about. Are they right?Luke Spanton, via emailIf you trust that the bike shop has checked the brakes are working properly, then they are probably right that there is nothing to worry about - in the narrow sense of safety. But it would certainly bother me if my bike were juddering like that.The most likely cause is that your brake shoes need "toeing in". This is a small, fiddly adjustment but it can be done at home (most brake pads are tightened with an allen key). You need to ensure that the trailing edge of the brake pad makes contact with the wheel rim just fractionally before the leading edge. If you can do that, you should have smooth, judder-free braking restored.&#183;Please send your cycling queries tobike.doctor@guardian.co.uk
The launch of Apple's iPhone sent shockwaves across the rest of the technology industry yesterday as the race started to bring the Silicon Valley giant's latest gadget to Britain later this year.Fears that the touchscreen handset seriously threatens major mobile phone brands such as Nokia, Motorola, SonyEricsson and Palm led investors to sell shares across the telecoms sector following the unveiling of the combined music player, mobile phone, email and internet device by Apple's chief executive, Steve Jobs, on Tuesday.Even the usually restrained American news magazine Time seemed to lose its head, proclaiming that "Apple's new iPhone could do to the cellphone market what the iPod did to the portable music player market: crush it pitilessly beneath the weight of its own superiority".While the blogosphere was filled with discussion of the iPhone, UK mobile phone networks and at least one high street retailer began the process of trying to clinch a deal with Apple to bring the iPhone to this side of the Atlantic. Four mobile phone companies - O2, Orange, T-Mobile and Vodafone - as well as the UK's largest independent mobile phone retailer, Carphone Warehouse, are interested. Carphone's chief executive, Charles Dunstone, said: "Anyone would like an exclusive deal with Apple on this and we are as close to them as anyone."Being the only place in the UK where people can buy the iPhone, even if only for a few weeks, would be worth millions to a company like Carphone. The mobile phone companies, meanwhile, are looking for a British version of the deal that Apple has signed with America's largest mobile network, Cingular.Mr Jobs is understood to have held talks with senior executives from across the European mobile phone industry. Last night there was growing speculation that O2 could secure the deal after reports in Spain that its parent company, Telefonica, has snatched a deal for its home market.Whoever gets the deal, the iPhone will transform the mobile phone market, according to Mr Dunstone."There's going to be an enormous scramble," he said. "Nokia, Motorola, SonyEricsson, everyone is going to have to come out with their iPhone-beating products before the iPhone itself comes out. As usual, Steve Jobs has raised the bar for everyone."The iPhone will be out in the US in June, with a UK launch scheduled for the last three months of the year.HandsetsThe biggest impact of the iPhone is likely to be on makers of multi-media mobile phones. The handset industry has jumped on the digital music bandwagon, which itself was set rolling by the iPod, and a third of new mobile phones now contain a music player.Nokia is heavily advertising its N series, which includes the N91, with a 4GB memory, the same as the basic iPhone; SonyEricsson has 11 phones in its Walkman range; and there are a host of other handsets such as LG's Chocolate that include MP3 players as standard. There has already been one iTunes-compatible mobile phone - Motorola's Rokr - but it could only store 100 songs and got poor reviews. Motorola now has a range of music phones that can store many more tracks and recently announced the MotoRizr Z6, which, though half the capacity of the iPhone, can accept music from 200 online retailers - though not iTunes.To date, transferring music on to a phone has been laborious and sometimes frustrating. Moving music from iTunes to the iPhone, in contrast, will be as easy as it is to "sync" an iPod. The size of iPhone's impact will be tempered by its price, says Stuart Jeffrey, analyst at Lehman Brothers."In order to materially impact Nokia, Motorola, SonyEricsson et al, the iPhone would likely need to fall significantly in price."MP3 playersSteve Jobs himself described the iPhone as "the best iPod ever" when he launched it on Tuesday and Apple is looking to the phone to strengthen its lead over other makers of MP3 players.Apple hopes that combining the iPod with a phone will give it an edge against Microsoft's recently launched Zune and Creative's Zen. Even before Jobs spoke in California, Microsoft said it had looked at adding phone functions to Zune but that was not "the number one thing we are focused on", suggesting Apple was wasting its time. Apple, however, hopes the iPhone will represent a new wave of mobile music growth.It already dominates the digital player market - in the UK iPod ownership outstrips other MP3 players two to one - but sales of standalone players have slowed. Bloggers were yesterday debating whether the iPhone will cannibalise sales of the iPod. But Martin Garner, director at telecoms and technology consultants Ovum, reckons: "Apple has positioned the iPhone as an upgrade to the iPod and many of the early buyers will be iPod users." The music industry is hoping that the iPhone will provide a further boost to music sales. Richard Gooch, of the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry, said: "Digital music is in large part about convergence, portability and mobility. Apple's iPhone seems to hit all these sweetspots."Mobile emailFor many people in business the BlackBerry has become a status symbol - the mobile email device, made by Canadian company Research In Motion, represents the importance attached to them by their companies. But there are an increasing number of devices that bring mobile email and even web browsing to the many, and the iPhone represents a major challenge to the rest of the market.With the ability to synchronise easily with most email services and alert the user when new messages arrive, Apple is attacking the market also occupied by Palm, Motorola's Moto Q, the Sidekick from T-Mobile and Nokia's E62. The big difference is these competing devices have small keyboards, while Apple has gone for a touch screen. How resilient the screen is to scratches and knocks remains to be seen. The iPhone is also thinner than its rivals and includes a full-blown Mac internet browser rather than the pared-down browser usually found on a mobile device. The 3.5 inch display allows whole web pages to be easily viewed, which can be tricky on some other devices.But the mobile network technology the iPhone uses could make web browsing slow unless you stay in one place and use the phone's wi-fi. Analysts reckon BlackBerry's corporate customers are unlikely to switch en masse, but Palm could see sales suffer.Camera phonesThe camera phone has turned everyone into a potential paparazzo. More are sold worldwide than digital cameras, and technology research house Gartner reckons that half of all handsets sold last year included a camera. But photographers are unlikely to abandon their cameras for Apple's new gadget. At just two megapixels resolution, the iPhone ranks as only a mid-range camera phone and is still well below digital camera standards.
Jack's question on Tuesday - what processor will the iPhone use? - approaches a definitive answer, despite there being none from Apple. It's not going to be an Intel chip (good thing, since that would be both hot and battery-sucking). Much more likely it will be one from British (hooray!) companyARM.Thisjob ad on Apple's sitementions that you'll benefit from a "solid understanding of embedded hardware platforms (ARM processors, SDIO, UARTs, etc)". (Though asearch for iPhone at ARMpresently turns up nothing.)The irony is that Apple was a big reason whyARMgot started, and for many years in the 1990s its shareholding in ARM propped up profits: I lost count of the quarters where Apple just about made a profit, which mysteriously matched the one-off exceptional profit from sales of shares in ARM. (Was I the only person who spotted this?) Then Apple sold the lot, because Motorola and its PowerPC - no, IBM and its G5.. no, wait,Inteland its x86 chip were the future.But with the iPhone, it's back to the same company that provided theNewton'sprocessor.Plus ca change..
2006 may not have been the greatest year for games - 2004 (Half Life 2, WoW) probably takes that award - but 2006 saw new sales records hit in the UK. According to trade body ELSPA 65.1 million units were sold with a value of 1.36billion GBP - a rise of 7% and 1% respectively. The top three sellers of 2006 were, in order, FIFA 07, PES 6 and Need for Speed Carbon. Others in the top 10 include GTA: Liberty City Stories and Lego Star Wars 2 though sadly not Pyschonauts.Console sales were dominated by the PS2 although the 360 come a close-ish second, while PC games sales were up 7%. For the handhelds the DS "slightly outsold" the PSP, though both did well. So no major shocks then, though the growth in PC game sales - "best year ever", apparently - augurs well for a format which has, on paper, a far better release schedule this year than last. If Sony can successfully continue their repositioning of the PS2 for a younger/more casual audience and the Wii and PS3 become properly available in the UK then there is little doubt that 2007 - boosted by a new GTA - will break the sales records set in 2006. And if not, then I'll play Superman Returns for 12 hours straight and promise never to predict the future again.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Broadband's turn-on frustrationsIt's synonymous with high-speed connectivity, so why do new users have to wait so long to get broadband? SA Mathieson delves into BT's exchanges to find out.All abuzz, Bill sets his sights on networking your home...In his annual CES speech, the Microsoft boss finally delivered what had been promised for so long: Vista.... and so does Steve, with the launch of Apple TVSteve Jobs then offered the Apple TV and iPhoneSorry, Boris, these 'blasted gizmos' are here to stayKeith Stuart: If anyone tries to tell you at some point in 2007 that videogames are now an accepted mainstream art form, slap them quickly. And when the initial look of shock fades to one of slack-mouthed confusion, slap them again. They are incredibly wrong and need to be reprogrammed.Newly Asked QuestionsAre there a month's worth of bugs to be exploited in Apple's software?On the evidence presented at the Month of Apple Bugs site (projects.info-pull.com/moab), one honestly has to answer: no, not really. Which is probably a good thing for Apple, whose new iPhone runs OSX.What have image spam and Captchas got in common?Computers can't understand either of them, because they can't actually read.GadgetsHTC S310Sadly, the S310 won't do much to further the HTC brand. It is a standard chocolate bar-style smartphone that has the basics (Outlook, Explorer, Media Player etc) but lacks pizzazz.Saitek iPhonic A-100Saitek's wireless PC/iPod system - the iFreedom which I reviewed a couple of months ago - not only works in an innovative way, but also sounds good. The standard hasn't dropped on the rather lower tech A-100.Nokia N800Last year Nokia launched its first non-phone consumer product in a while - the Wi-Fi powered 770 web tablet. For its successor, the just-launched N800, Nokia has smartened the device up and made a few tweaks, but largely stuck with the 770's successful template.Taking stock of virtual economiesVictor Keegan: On the opening day of Congress last week, Republican George Miller (California) held a press conference in Second Life (SL), the 3-D internet world that has been getting a lot of publicity.TechnobilePeter Judge: How dare they try to pass off old technology as 'easy to use'. The Nokia 1100 is obsolete, not simple.Independent's day for creative game developmentBuilding addictive games needs flexibility and crazy ideas, says Chris Delay, Introversion Software's lead designer.How the terabyte drive could end the DVD warsCharles Arthur: Let joy be unconfined! Hitachi has announced that it will introduce, in the next three months, a one-terabyte drive for desktop computers.Uncovering global inequalities through innovative statisticsKey information should be unearthed to explain the world we live in, argues a Swedish professor.LG launch gives users the best of both worldsJust as those awaiting a heavyweight clash between the two next-generation DVD standards were getting ready for another bout, South Korea's LG made a surprise entrance into the ring.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.NewsbytesQuad core for more | Internet to go | Are your emails legal? | Advance to 800 | On the Dott | Get your own planet | Zing, not Zune | Canon fire off new cameras | Multimedia fast food traysLetters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
The more we look into this, the more it becomes (as Malcolm Gladwell points out in an excellentNew Yorker article) like a mystery, not a puzzle - that is, the answers were all out there already, but needed to be put together. (Gladwell's piece is about Enron. Highly recommended.)(What follows below is now supplanted by, who'dathought, events - Cisco "expects a signed agreement from Apple today [=Weds, US time]" buying the iPhone trademark,says Gizmodo.We've left it for completeness, and so you can follow the trademark labyrinth for yourselves.)Thursday:ignore the above:Cisco says it will sue Appleto protect the iPhone trademark.Apple did indeed register the "iPhone" trademark in the US, and it was granted in September 2006. Don't believe us? Seethis page. Sure, it's down for "Ocean Telecom Services", but the description (not to mention the typography) are all that Apple gear. And as10layers noted in October, Apple had been filing with the same description all over the world, including the UK.Now, if you look at the results of asearch in the US Patent and Trademark Office for "iPhone", you get 9 results, of which 6 have been abandoned. The only others, besides Apple, are for ahotel internal phone, andCisco's, which arguably doesn't conflict with the Apple one - the trademark is in a different field, of "computer hardware and software for providing integrated telephone communication with computerized global information networks", not "handheld and mobile digital electronic devices for the sending and receiving of telephone calls, faxes, electronic mail, and other digital data..."So Apple might squeak through this one without having to shell out to either of the other trademark holders.Oh, and it's worth hearing what Apple thinks the iPhone could do:handheld and mobile digital electronic devices for the sending and receiving of telephone calls, faxes, electronic mail, and other digital data; MP3 and other digital format audio players; handheld computers, personal digital assistants, electronic organizers, electronic notepads; magnetic data carriers; telephones, mobile phones, computer gaming machines, videophones, cameras; prerecorded computer programs for personal information management, database management software, electronic mail and messaging software, paging software, database synchronization software, computer programs for accessing, browsing and searching online databases, computer software and firmware, namely operating system programs, data synchronization programs, and application development tool programs for personal and handheld computers; electronic handheld units for the wireless receipt and/or transmission of data that enable the user to keep track of or manage personal information; software for the redirection of messages, Internet e-mail, and/or other data to one or more electronic handheld devices from a data store on or associated with a personal computer or a server; and software for the synchronization of data between a remote station or device and a fixed or remote station or device; computer hardware and software for providing integrated telephone communication with computerized global information networks; hand-held unit for playing electronic gamesEr, OK, there is an overlap in that "computer hardware and software for providing integrated telephone communication with computerized global information networks". I guess Linksys/Cisco can start warming their lawyers up now...
With CES drawing to a close, its last couple of days sucked into a vortex of sense-crushing Apple hype, I've gathered together a few of the gaming bits and pieces you may have missed.Dell XPS 710 H2C Edition Gaming DesktopThis ostentatious beast of a machine features a patent-pending cooling system that combines liquid-to-air heat exchanger and fluid chiller to allowextremeoverclocking action. Add in the Intel Core Extreme QX6700 quad-core processor and two NVIDIA GeForce 8800 GTX graphics cards and that's five and a half thousand dollars-worth of PC thank you very much.Vigor Force Recon QXNHalf the price of the Dell is this not-exactly-shoddy gaming machine with Core 2 Extreme QX6700 quad-core processor, NVIDIA GeForce 8800 GTX video card, 1 gig of memory and a 150GB SATA hard drive. Find out more about Vigorhere.VoodooPC ENVY HW:201 Gaming Notebook PCNot sure I entirely understand the burgeoning gaming notebook market, but there you go. The ENVY has two NVIDIA GeForce Go 7950 GTX GPUs, AMD Turion 64 X2 dual-core mobile CPU and a whopping a 20.1" high-resolution screen (the biggest notebook display on the market apparently).DirecTV Championship GamingNot a product but a TV programme - satellite television provider DirecTV used CES to announce that it'll be bringing its Championship Gaming series of professional videogame tournaments to a world audience from Spring 2007. The company is in talks with Sky so us Brits will be able to enjoy the sight of arealsportsmen in mortal combat.Trimersion 3001AD HMDHurray, virtual reality isnotdead. Again! The Trimersion head-mounted display unit is wireless, so you won't garrote yourself mid-game. It also comes with a gun controller and features motion tracking elements to give total freedom of movement. Apparently plugs into any console, PC or mac via USB. Okay this one was shown at E3 as well, but still worth a look. Morehere.Razer Microsoft Reclusa gaming keyboardYes, a 'cutting-edge' gaming keyboard from peripherals expert Razer and some other company that also had a new OS at the show or something. I'll leave this one to the press release: "Hyperesponse Gaming Key Action for maximum response with minimal latency, and two built-in gold-plated USB ports. Gamers will be able to improve their efficiency with 12 custom-programmable buttons that include two 360 Degree Jog-Dials and two Bumper Buttons conveniently located on each side of the keyboard for faster control and optimized gameplay." Seventy dollars to you, guv.Sharp AQUOS HDTV Game Players SeriesAs well as its awe-inspiring 108" LCD TV screen - the world's largest - Sharp also revealed a couple of special gamers' TVs (models LC-37GP1U, LC-32GP1U). These newcomers feature, "a special game mode providing a newly developed 'Vyper Drive' feature, which reduces lag time between the game console and the TV to be virtually imperceptible". Available in 32- and 37-inch screen sizes they handle 1080p as well of course.Nyko rechargeable Sixaxis and Wiimote docking stationsThere were loads of next-gen accessories at the show, but these are quite cool. The PS3 model lets you charge and store up to four (non-award winning) Sixaxis controllers. The Wii model holds just two but also comes with two rechargeable NiMH battery packs. Useful.Actual gamesA few new and forthcoming titles hit the showfloor including DirectX 10 showcaseAge of Conan&gt;Age of Conanfrom Eidos, Namco'sHellgate London and Xbox 360 versions of Castlevania (including anew video) andAlien Hominid.R2D2 projectorCouldn't resist this. According to PocketLint: "The size of a small child... it will feature a 80-inch throw projector, a DVD player, an iPod docking station, Memory card and USB2 slots, built in speakers and have the ability to run around your home via the wireless remote." Sadly, no head-mounted drinks tray or electric shock capability.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Photo fromEngadget's live blogging of the keynoteDuring his Macworld keynote, launching the iPhone, Steve Jobs announced what sounded like a modest target: to sell 10 million phones in 2008. With a world market of 957 million phones in 2006, Apple was only looking for a 1% market share. Easy, right?If you could go into any store and buy an unlocked SIM-free iPhone then it probably would be easy, even at $499 and $599 a pop.However, in the US, you willonly be able to get the phone from Cingular, apparently on a two-year contract. Frankly, if I was going to sign a two year contract with a UK network, I'd expect to get a $600/£300 smart phonefree.So to start with, Apple is not trying to get 1% of the billion unit cell phone market: it's limited to roughly 60 million Cingular users, plus the number of extra customers Cingular can handle. (A lot of Mac fans are going to switch to Cingular.)Will iPhone be available to other networks? It's not clear.In the Time magazine article,Apple's New Calling: The iPhone, Lev Grossman writes:Jobs demanded special treatment from his phone service partner, Cingular, and he got it. He even forced Cingular to re-engineer its infrastructure to handle the iPhone's unique voicemail scheme. "They broke all their typical process rules to make it happen," says Tony Fadell, who heads Apple's iPod division. "They were infected by this product, and they were like, we've gotta do this!"What makes sense to Cingular may not make sense to other network providers, even if Apple gives them the option. In particular, some network providers aim to make money from selling high-priced music and movie downloads direct to their mobile phone users. It's a safe bet that the iPhone (like the iPod) will be incompatible with those services, and iPhone users will get their content from Apple instead. (Update: the iPhone gets its music via a PC or Mac, not over the air.)In other words,adopting the iPhone means a network is obliged to hand over to Apple some of its most profitable business opportunities. In doing that, it will also reinforce Apple's monopoly of the copy-protected download market.Cingular can make that trade-off because it doesn't have a music service and because it has an exclusive on the iPhone. It is willing to give up business opportunities and, ultimately, control of its own customers. Other networks may think differently.If the iPhone takes off like the iPod, however, other networks may be marginalised. Remember, Apple is a wholly proprietary company. "Think different" does not mean letting a thousand different flowers bloom. It means "Think exactly what Steve Jobs tells you to think."Does that worry you? If not, why not?
The iPhone looked amazing when Steve Jobs demonstrated it in his Macworld keynote, but how will it survive in real life? At least a couple of reports have appeared.Gizmodo's Brian Lamgot 15 minutes to play with one, and "First thing I did? I called my mom." He says:Keyboard: The softkey, on screen buttons are small. Think index finger, not thumb. Maybe I wasn't doing it right. The keys pop up when I put my finger down on the keys, but do you think the proximity sensor knows when I get close (but before I touch), and if I hover with my digit, it'll blow up the keys so they're easier to hit? (Am I making sense?)David Pogue, a big Mac fan fromThe New York Times, had meetings with Jobs and Schiller and says: "I basically played with the iPhone the entire hour." Among other things, he says:Typing is difficult. The letter keys are just pictures on the glass screen, so of course there's no tactile feedback. Software helps a lot. You can afford to make a lot of typos as you muddle through a word, because the software analyzes which keys you *might* have meant and figures out the word you wanted. Its best guess appears just under what you've typed; if it's correct, you tap the Space bar to accept it and continue. I typed a couple of e-mail messages with lots of typos but eventually 100 percent accuracy, thanks to this auto-correct feature. (My testing didn't involve proper names, however.)Also, he says "The Web browsing experience is incredible."I'm a heavy keyboard user, so this is a critical issue for me -- but not necessarily for everyone else! However, if you go back to the days of the Compaq iPaq, there were PDAs and PocketPC-based phones much like the iPhone, and they had touch screens and handwriting recognition rather than keyboards.The RIM BlackBerry reversed that market trend.People who had abandoned keyboards suddenly brought them back -- including Palm/Handspring with the Treo.Meanwhile,Jupiter Research analyst Michael Gartenberghas a short note on what's missing. He says: "It's not extensible by third parties, only Apple. The means at the moment no RSS readers, no Slingplayers"; and "There is no support for Microsoft Office attachments." There's also no 3G support, which may not be important in the US market, where the slow and clunky 2.5G EDGE provides a substitute.I expect a few other people will get hands-on experience of the iPhone. If you find any more reports, please post links here! I'd be particularly interested if someone could provide info about what's inside the iPhone. SeeNow what's inside an iPhone?, below.
We could make a list of thing that usually get announced at MacWorld but which didn't this year. Among them would be the latest iteration of Apple's iLife products, of its iWork suite, an appearance on the stage with Steve Jobs of someone from Mathematica showing off how fast their product runs, new iMacs/MacBooks/Power Macs, but the one which has almost become a fixture in the "I'd like to welcome.." group is someone from Microsoft's Mac Business Unit showing off the upcoming version of Office for the Mac.Never mind, though. They may have been shoved off for the announcement of the Apple TV and the iPhone, but Microsoft is undaunted. We've just received an email:SAN FRANCISCO — Jan. 10, 2007 — Microsoft Corp.'s Macintosh Business Unit (Mac BU) today revealed at Macworld Conference &amp; Expo 2007 the news Mac fans have been waiting to hear: a new version of Office for Mac is on its way. The Mac BU announced its intent to deliver the first Universal version of Office for Mac for PowerPC and Intel-based Macs — Microsoft Office 2008 for Mac. Scheduled to be available in the second half of 2007, Office 2008 for Mac will allow Mac users to work more efficiently with new and enhanced tools that are simple, intuitive and easily discovered.Is it just us, or does the phrase "announced its intent" sound like saying you "plan to consider" something? Nice to know that its tools are "easily discovered" though. Even if that implies one has to be searching for them..Jack adds: Well, I thought searching for commands was a fact of life for Office users, and users of other complex software, including OS X. (It is for me.) The PC version of Office has introduced a new ribbon user interface to make features easier to discover. It remains to be seen what the Mac BU has decided to do, buthere's an interview with the boss, Roz Ho. She says: "Microsoft Office 2008 for Mac is packed with new, Mac-first, Mac-only features that are designed to provide a unique, engaging and definitively Mac experience." Is that a ribbon or not? ;-)
The new Buzz game for PS2 may not have been the one I am patiently waiting for - Southampton FC edition, in case you were wondering - but "The Schools Quiz" is certainly a little different. The game - developed in conjunction with the Department of Education - replaces Jason Donavan and music trivia with 5000 questions based around Key Stage 2 National Curriculum content. Now don't all rush off, this is important."Using the buzzers and the quiz format means the game is instantly accessible - and works on the basis that kids learn more when they're having fun," said David Amor, creative director of Buzz developer Relentless.Teachers can also create quizzes around particular subjects but you imagine they'll be spending most of their time sorting out which lucky four kids out of the class get to use the controllers. So, Buzz: The Schools Quiz then - gimmick or the beginning of a bright future of interactive education? Wonder whatBoris Johnsonwould say?
I recall being impressed with the jury at the annualSlamdanceindie festival late last year when the finalists for their game of the year category were announced. Way down at the bottom, apparently below anyone's radar, was the hugely controversial titleSuper Columbine Massacre RPG, a game - to paraphrase the developer's stated intentions - aimed at sparking debate, engendering understanding in the violence and videogames issue and exploring the boundaries of the interactive art form.Unfortunately, it looks like someone has developed cold feet.Water Cooler GamesandKotakuboth report that the game has been removed from the list due to pressure from festival sponsors. However,a follow-up post at WCGsuggests that the decision to remove the game was a personal choice on the part of the organiser rather than due to corporate demands.The froth which is unfurling is covered in detail at WCG, including links tointelligentanalysisand updated information. Raph points to aNewsweekarticle which highlights the hypocrisy in the decision, as the festival has previously shown Gus Van Sant'sElephant, a film which deals with the same subject.As of Monday, at least one other finalist has pulled his game out of the competition in protest. Slamdance begins 18 January.
