A selection of 13 apps for you today:Pocket League StoryKairosoft's Pocket League Story has been out on Android for months, but has finally hoofed its way onto iPhone. It takes the Japanese developer's trademark simulation mechanics and applies them to football management. On past form, expect it to be a major time-sucker.iPhoneIf I Ran the ZooOceanhouse Media's latest Dr. Seuss book-app is If I Ran the Zoo, following the ideas for a new zoo of young Gerald McGrew. "The world's biggest bird from the island of Gwark, who eats only pine trees, and spits out the bark..." Voice narration and word-highlighting are included.Android / iPhone / iPadOasis: The Little Black SongbookMusicroom has previously made iOS lyric'n'chord book-apps for Adele, Bob Dylan and Coldplay. Now it's launched an Oasis songbook with more than 80 songs.iPhone / iPadTom Waits: The Little Black SongbookAnd if Oasis weren't enough, Tom Waits is getting the LBS treatment too. More than 80 of his songs get lyrics and chords in a user-friendly format.iPhone / iPadZOMB1ES (on teh ph0ne)Xbox 360 indie hit I Maed A Gam3 W1th Z0mbies 1n it!!!1 has been turned into a Windows Phone title, including the original version and a new "music-driven psychedelic shooter" called Time Viking.Windows PhoneVodafone Music ShopVodafone's digital music store has millions of tracks available individually and as Track Packs. Now there's a BlackBerry client app to join the existing Android version.BlackBerryNokia Car ModeNokia's new Car Mode app aims to reduce distractions for drivers by presenting them with the most obvious commands – calls, music, navigation – as big buttons on the screen.NokiaBanksy London TourThe team behind the Banksy Bristol Tour app have launched a new version focused on London. It's a location-based guide to more than 24 Banksy artworks around the capital, complete with photos and historical text from LDN Graffiti.iPhoneSuper Crate BoxIndependent PC/Mac hit Super Crate Box has made the leap to iOS, offering retro action and a chiptune soundtrack. The original is famously moreish, so we expect the iOS version to be popular.iPhone / iPadStreet WrestlerChillingo's newie invites players to "release the Luchador inside of you!" Which involves playing a cartoon wrestler punching, kicking and slamming street-thugs across a variety of urban levels.iPhone / iPadRace Against TimeLondon agency Somethin' Else has worked with the Tate Modern museum on a free iPhone game, Race Against Time. It involves playing a chameleon who has to race through time to defeat a villain called Dr Greyscale. Where does modern art fit in? That'll be the visuals for the 12 levels, which are based on the last 121 years of art.iPhoneBrisksaberThere's a new lightsaber app in town from Brisk, to promote the 3D release of Star Wars: Episode 1 – The Phantom Menace. It's a game rather than a novelty app, that sees you slashing the likes of Darth Maul and Mace Windu. At the time of writing, it appears to be US-only though.Android / iPhone / iPadMixOnMyRadioHere's a new take on personalised radio. MixOnMyRadio doesn't stream like Pandora. Instead, it takes songs from your iPhone music library, then pulls in news, entertainment and lifestyle content from podcasts from the likes of the BBC, NPR and CNN to run around them.iPhone
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamI am done with the Freemium Business Model &gt;&gt; Tyler Nichols"I am done with "free". I have come to the realization that most people who want something for free will never, ever think of paying you, no matter how valuable they find your service."He's converting his site to paid-only.Report: Analysis of the Stratfor Password List &gt;&gt; Tech Herald"Just before the holiday weekend, as their final act of defiance in 2011, AntiSec supporters published nearly a million records taken during the Christmas Eve attack on Strategic Forecasting Inc. The Tech Herald has examined the list of 860,160 passwords hashes that were leaked, and the results of our tests were both expected and pitiful.&lt;br /&gt;"We're sorry to report that the state of password management and creation is still living in the Dark Ages."This story never changes. Why are we surprised any more? Are we surprised any more? The more worrying aspect is "password recycling" where people use the same password in multiple places.[Overhyped] Indians on Tablet Spree. 14Lakh Aakash Tablets Pre-booked, RIM Sells 12000 Playbooks &gt;&gt; Asia 2.0 blog"If 2011 was the year of smartphones, 2012 is surely turning into a year of tablets for the Indian market."Turns out that India, with more than 100m internet users, is getting interested in tablets too. But is it just a bubble? [Corrected with link to originating site.]Windows 8 tablets secret weapon: OneNote and inking &gt;&gt; ZDNetJames Kendrick: "I strongly urge the folks at Redmond to remember the big advantage over the competition in the tablet space, and work the pen and OneNote into the forefront of Windows 8 tablet design."This insight came to me out of the blue when I recently received a phone call asking for my help. A former client of mine needed information about a project I handled for his company years ago, and while he figured I had no memory of the work after all this time he had to ask. Fortunately for him Microsoft and OneNote came to the rescue."OneNote looks fantastic. And it could be the thing that makes Windows 8 tablets (Intel ones? ARM ones? Both?) really desirable.Why do all movie tickets Cost the same? &gt;&gt; The Atlantic"Like tens of millions of Americans, I have paid money to see Mission: Impossible, which made $130 million in the last two weeks, and I have not paid any money to see Young Adult, which has made less than $10 million over the same span. Nobody is surprised or impressed by the discrepancy. The real question is: If demand is supposed to move prices, why isn't seeing Young Adult much cheaper than seeing Mission: Impossible?"We seem to remember Stelios trying to use his "book early" system for cinemas and being completely frozen out a couple of years ago.Spam Finds a New Target &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"Spam, one of the Internet's oldest annoyances, is gearing up for a second act. Unlike traditional email spam, which usually comes from strangers, this new form—dubbed "social" spam—often appears to be from a friend. Criminals find social networks alluring because they can spread messages though a chain of trusted sources.&lt;br /&gt;"Such spam puts the usefulness of social networking at risk. Facebook says less than 4% of the content shared on its site is spam and Twitter says just 1.5% of all tweets were "spammy" in 2010. But Facebook adds that the volume is growing faster than its user base. On any given day, spam hits less than 0.5% of Facebook users, or some four million people."Spam is the E.coli of the internet.Google+ is going to mess up the internet &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWebJon Mitchell, who is responsible for reporting on Google+ at RWW, doesn't like the way it lets people snarf entire articles to repost them (even seen Facebook, Jon?), the lack of permalinks, the shoehorning of Google+ profile pictures into search results, the shoehorning of Google+ posts into search results, and… quite a long list, actually.Refresh and reset your PC &gt;&gt; Microsoft: Building Windows 8Steve Sinofsky, head of Windows: "Many consumer electronic devices these days provide a way for customers to get back to some predefined "good" state. This ranges from the hardware reset button on the back of a wireless network router, to the software reset option on a smartphone. We've built two new features in Windows 8 that can help you get your PCs back to a "good state" when they're not working their best, or back to the "factory state" when you're about to give them to someone else or decommission them."The settings are called "PC Reset" and "PC Refresh", and Paul Thurrott thinks they're two of the best features in Windows 8. We'd have put more money on Picture Password as the most fun feature, but we include this for completeness.iPhone 4 in pure CSS3 &gt;&gt; TJRus"This rendering of iPhone 4 and its icons was made in pure CSS3. No images, no base64, no SVG, no canvas, just 3395 lines of CSS code and 335 lines of Javascript code (with jQuery, of course)."You can unlock it, turn it on or off, and use the Home button. Does this count asskeumorphism, though?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest links, tag articles on Pinboard.in with "guardiantech"
First it killed off the popular Flip video camera for consumers; now network equipment maker Cisco Systems has pulled the plug on umi, a home videoconferencing system it once touted as a high-quality alternative to popular video chat service Skype.The move is part of ongoing restructuring plans at the company, based in San Jose, California, which has seen itcut staff and sell assets.Cisco said in an email to the Reuters news agency on Wednesday, in response to internet chatter, that it had decided to no longer sell Cisco umi hardware as a consumer offering.In April 2011,Cisco said it would shut down its popular Flip video camera divisionas part of a larger revamp.As of Wednesday afternoon, Cisco had yet to remove the product from its home product store, where interested customers were told only that the product was not available for shipment.The productstill features on its site as of Thursday, where it is touted as a way to "share life's moments big and small".Just a little more than two months ago, Cisco announced that the umi system would be available in Best Buy's Magnolia Home Theatres in time for the holiday shopping season."While we are ending the sale of umi, the umi service remains unchanged," Cisco said, adding that existing customers will continue to be able to use the service to make calls to other umi subscribers or to Google video chat accounts.But it's unclear what will happen to the service's existing users. "Let's hope they make them Tandberg compatible. I have seven units I use in a mental health agency for a variety of purposes," a user by the name of umi Rumford said on Cisco's umi chat forum, referring to Norwegian videoconferencing company Tandberg, a business acquired by Cisco in 2010."The new year is only four days old, and already another consumer product from Cisco Systems has been put out to pasture: this time, it's the consumer videoconferencing product umi," the user said.Cisco had launched the $599 (£384) umi home videoconference system in October 2010, positioning it as a high-quality rival to Skype and other low-cost providers, with the hope of expanding into the consumer market.Marthin De Beer, head of Cisco's emerging technologies business group, said at the time umi's quality made it different from others. "It is different, it's a new class of product and you will see that the experience is transformational," he said.Cisco declined to give sales figures for the umi system.Videoconference start-up Vidyo, which unveiled a new technology in November that allowed its service to run using virtual servers, said the Cisco decision confirmed the trend in the industry away from hardware and toward software."The only way to introduce new services is through solutions that work on devices people already own such as smart phones and tablets," Vidyo chief executive Ofer Shapiro said.Rival Skype pointed to a blog on its site written at the launch of umi and said the blog was still valid.Skype said at the time that a $599 device could be "subject to obsoletism at the hands of mass-market options".
Google+ attracted 2.6 million visitors in the UK in November last year, according to the first UK traffic estimates since the social network launched publicly in September.Figures released by online metrics firm ComScore show that worldwide visitors to Google's social network rose to 67 million in November, up from 20 million in the three weeks after itsinvitation-only launch in Julylast year.US visitors to Google+ reached 14.7 million in the period, according to comScore, boosted by a rareTV ad campaignfrom the internet giant.Separate traffic estimatesreleased by metrics firm Experian Hitwiseearlier this week reported that Google+ had almost 50 million US visits in December, up from 30 million in the previous month.Google stepped up attempts to coax users towards its fledgling social network in the runup to Christmas, as rival players Facebook and Twitter increased their pressure on the internet giant with a series of new feature launches and, inTwitter's case, redesignsGoogle went as far as to redesign its homepage in September to try to draw users' attention to the new player in the market.Traffic estimates from comScore show that UK visitors to Google+ rose almost threefold between September and November, to 2.6 million visitors, as the site moved out of its invitation-only stage.Google+ visitors by country, in millions. Source: ComScoreWhile the US continues to dominate visitors to Google+, the figures show that the social network already has a significant reach in Europe.Google+ visitors in November 2011 as a percentage of country's internet population. Sources: ComScore, InternetWorldStats"Europe currently has the largest Google+ audience, and 6.1% of European internet users visited the site during [November]," said Mike Read, managing director of comScore Europe. "The UK ranks as one of its largest audiences with nearly 2.6 million visitors and a penetration of 6.9% – the 10th-highest reach globally.But in proportion to internet population, the country in which Google+ achieved its highest penetration according to ComScore's figures was Canada, where 9% of available internet users visited the network. The next biggest was France, with 7.5%, followed by Spain (5.5%) and Germany (5.2%). The UK was just ahead of the average of 4.9%."The site has grown significantly since its launch and it will be interesting to see if increased exposure throughout the Google network, including Google Search and YouTube, will further accelerate its growth around the globe," Read said.India was second behind the US in with 4.3 million visitors in November, according to comScore, ahead of Brazil with 3.6 million, and Germany and France racking up 3.4 million visitors each.Google+ visitor datacountryGoogle+visitors (Nov)Internetpopulation (m)As % ofnet usersUnited States14.72456India4.31004.3Brazil3.675.984.74Germany3.465.125.22France3.445.267.51Japan2.699.182.62United Kingdom2.651.445.05Canada2.626.969.64Turkey1.8355.14Spain1.629.15.5Italy1.330.034.33Russia1.259.72.01Poland1.122.454.9Mexico134.92.87Source: ComScore, InternetWorldStats.
It is not clear how Twitter thought thata male Londonerwas the Chinese-born wife of a billionaire media mogul – but what is certain is that once the social network got in touch with Wendi Deng directly they knew that the account they had verified as belonging to her was fake.It is understood that Twitter was in contact with Rupert Murdoch's wife directly – as is routine when verifying accounts – at which point it would have become clear that the@wendi_dengaccount that had been marked as hers for 24 hours was in fact nothing of the sort.The unfortunate episode throws a spotlight on Twitter's verification process, which it uses to clamp down on the many thousands of imposters that feature on the social network.Twitter launched its verified accounts programme more than two-and-a-half years ago in an effortto combat a rise in fake celebrity profiles.It is not known how many verified accounts exist today, although an exponential rise in its number of users worldwide – from 17 million users at the end of 2009 to 100 million in December 2011 – meant that it had to close a verification scheme open to the general public.The social network closely guards the process of its verification scheme, saying only that it "mistakenly" verified the @wendi_deng account for a short period, but declined to offer any detail about how the rare mistake was made.People who have had Twitter accounts verified describe a relatively informal process, often conducted by email with someone at the social network.One email from a Twitter employee based in San Francisco to a high-profile user wishing to add the blue tick to their profile said: "Send me a link to your bio/resume/major online presence, the direct email associated with your account, your manager's email, the organisation you want to be associated with, and I'll see what I can do."An employee of a company that sought to verify colleagues' accounts on the social network said they had been told by Twitter that individual account holders needed "more than 5,000 followers and to tweet regularly" to get the seal of approval.This person was asked by Twitter for two personal email addresses, a phone number, and to obtain a reference from a third-party.Back with the @Wendi_Deng saga, someone able to tweet on the accounttold the Guardian on Tuesdaythat Twitter had not made contact at any time in the process – before, during, or after verification.Instead, Twitter apparently attempted to make contact with Deng herself. It is not clear why the hoax account was given the blue tick before Deng confirmed the account was false.Twitter declined to comment.Mathew Ingram at GigaOMneatly summed upthe opacity of the process, saying: "If [Twitter] is going to continue to ask for the trust of its users, it is going to have to be more transparent about how it manages the network, or risk losing the faith that it has spent so much time building up."And if Rupert Murdoch was flirting with buying or investing in Twitter, the briefly successful hijacking of his wife's profile on the network will surely give him pause for thought.
Thursday already! How is your week going?
Beleaguered internet company Yahoo has appointed Scott Thompson, the president of eBay's online payments business PayPal, as its chief executive.The appointment of Thompson, who will take a seat on the board of Yahoo, comes as the once-powerful online company considers a range of strategic options including the possible sale of all or part of its business.Thompson replaces Carol Bartz, who was ignominiously ousted in September and subsequently claimed that the company"fucked her over".The Yahoo chairman, Roy Bostock, said that Thompson's primary focus will be to work closely with the board on the strategic review to "identify the best approaches for the company and its shareholders"."As part of this process, Yahoo is considering a wide range of opportunities for the company's business, as well as specific investments or dispositions of assets," added Bostock.Thompson, considered something of a dark horse who had not been named in previous reports on candidates tipped to take the top role, said Yahoo is an "industry icon" and is keen to deliver the company's "next era of success"."Clearly, speed is important but we will attack both the opportunity ahead and the competitive challenges with an appropriate balance of urgency and thoughtfulness," he added.Last month it was reported that Yahoo is also considering a plan to cut back its Asian holdings in China's Alibaba Group and Japan's SoftBank, after a problematic time with investors.Yahoo owns a 40% stake in e-commerce company Alibaba and a 35% stake in Yahoo Japan. A sale could yield funds of up to $17bn which could then be used to mollify investors, stage stock buybacks or even make further strategic investments.Companies that have been linked with considering a deal with Yahoo include AOL, TPG Capital, Silver Lake and Microsoft.In November an offer for 19.9% of Yahoo backed by Microsoft, which made an unsuccessful $44.6bn hostile bid in 2008,valued the business at $20.6bn.Last month a consortium including Alibaba Group, Softbank and private equity firms Blackstone and Bainemerged with a tentative planto buy all of the company in a deal worth about $25bn.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook.
Yahoo has tapped PayPal boss Scott Thompson as its new CEO, effective January 9, the troubled internet giant has announced.Yahoo fired Carol Bartz, its last chief executive, in September and has been undergoing a strategic review as the business has struggled to compete with Google and Facebook. AfterBartz's controversial ouster, Yahoo said it was looking at a range of strategic options, including the sale of all or part of the company.Thompson will takeover from interim chief executive Tim Morse, who will resume his role as chief financial officer.Yahoo's new boss has served as president of PayPal, eBay's payment company, since 2008. Under his leadership PayPal grew its user base from 50 million to 104 million active users across 190 countries."Scott brings to Yahoo! a proven record of building on a solid foundation of existing assets and resources to reignite innovation and drive growth, precisely the formula we need at Yahoo!," said Roy Bostock, Yahoo chairman, in a statement today.Scott Thompson. Photograph: Terrence McCarthy / PAYPAL/EPA"His deep understanding of online businesses combined with his team building and operational capabilities will restore the energy, focus, and momentum necessary to grow the core business and deliver increased value for our shareholders. The search committee and the entire Board concluded that he is the right leader to return the core business to a path of robust growth and industry-leading innovation."Michael Gartenberg, analyst at Gartner, said Yahoo had some strong assets including Yahoo News, Yahoo Messenger and mail and Flickr, its photo-sharing site, but successive managements had failed to bring those assets together."There's room for this company. It's a survivor," he told the Guardian. "It still has a large user base and a great brand among consumers. The question is, can the new man step up and put those pieces together?"The news of Thompson's appointment was broken by All Things Digital, part of The Wall Street Journal, and came as a surprise to many tech watchers. He was not seen as a front-runner for the post and many had expected a sale of the company might come before a chief was appointed.Two private equity firms, Silver Lake and TPG Capital, have made tentative offers for Yahoo but shareholders are unhappy with the price. Rival tech firms including China's Alibaba, part owned by Yahoo, are also considering offers. Microsoft, which made an unsuccessful $44.6bn hostile bid for Yahoo in 2008, is also said to be taking another look.But the price Yahoo would fetch today illustrates how far the tech firm has fallen. Yahoo is now valued at $20bn and its share price has fallen hard as Google and Facebook – which overtook Yahoo as the largest online display advertiser in the US – have emerged as the big forces in online advertising and innovation.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 31 DecemberPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (37)Wii (4)PSP (3)142 (2)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (34)PC (5)Wii (3)83 (4)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (40)PC (3)104 (3)Just Dance 3(3+)Wii (81)Xbox 360 (17)PS3 (2)125 (5)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (44)PC (0)76 (6)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (34)77 (7)Need For Speed: The Run(16+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (40)3DS (3)Wii (3)78 (8)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (31)PC (7)89 (12)Mario Kart 7(3+)3DS (100)510 (11)Forza Motorsport 4(3+)Xbox 360 (100)1111 (9)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (100)712 (–)Rage(18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (36)713 (–)WWE 12(12+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (32)Wii (2)314 (16)Super Mario 3D Land(3+)3DS (100)715 (15)Sonic Generations(7+)Xbox 360 (43)PS3 (32)3DS (23)PC (2)416 (–)Kinect Sports: Season Two(3+)Xbox 360 (100)417 (–)Kinect Sports(12+)Xbox 360 (100)1618 (19)Rayman Origins(7+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (36)Wii (17)219 (14)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (71)Xbox 360 (24)PS3 (4)4020 (–)F1 2011(3+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (40)3DS (8)PC (1)9UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Microsoft is to sue UK electronics retailer Comet for making tens of thousands of allegedly unauthorised CDs for its Windows operating system and selling them to customers.The US computing giant has issued proceedings against Comet for allegedly creating more than 94,000 counterfeit "recovery discs" for its Windows Vista and Windows XP operating systems and selling them to customers.Comet, which sold the CDs for £14.99 each, made in excess of £1.4m in sales to customers while providing the service to customers between March 2008 and December 2009.Shares in Kesa Electricals, which owns Comet, fell by more than 8% following the announcement of the legal action on Wednesday.But the retailer says it will contest Microsoft's claim, saying that it acted in the interests of consumers because Microsoft had stopped supplying the recovery discs with new computers.The CDs were sold to Comet customers who had bought PCs and laptops that come pre-loaded with Windows, allowing them to rebuild the operating system in the event of a serious crash.Comet provided this service to customers between March 2008 and December 2009. The discs were sold separately from the PC."As detailed in the complaint filed today, Comet produced and sold thousands of counterfeit Windows CDs to unsuspecting customers in the United Kingdom," said Microsoft lawyer David Finn."Comet's actions were unfair to customers. We expect better from retailers of Microsoft products — and our customers deserve better, too."Microsoft alleges that Comet produced the counterfeit CDs at a factory in Hampshire and then sold them to customers from its 248 stores across the UK.Comet admits to producing the recovery discs for customers, but the retailer claimed that doing so did not infringe Microsoft's intellectual property."Comet firmly believes that it acted in the very best interests of its customers," said a spokeswoman for the retailer."It believes its customers had been adversely affected by the decision to stop supplying recovery discs with each new Microsoft operating system based computer."She said that Comet, which is owned by retail company Kesa Electricals, believes it has a solid legal defence and will defend its position vigorously."We note that proceedings have been issued by Microsoft Corporation against Comet relating to the creation of recovery discs by Comet on behalf of its customers," she said."Comet has sought and received legal advice from leading counsel to support its view that the production of recovery discs did not infringe Microsoft's intellectual property. Accordingly, Comet is satisfied that it has a good defence to the claim and will defend its position vigorously."However, legal experts believe that the odds are stacked in favour of Microsoft winning the case.Iain Connor, a partner at law firm Pinsent Mason specialising in intellectual property disputes, argued that Comet's practice of selling the discs separately appears to be a breach of the law.Under law back up copies of computer software are allowed to be made as long as there is no extra economic benefit, said Connor."Comet is trying to deliver a customer need but if they are charging separately, rather than just making back up copies for their customers, they are depriving Microsoft of the opportunity to make money and they are cashing in when they shouldn't," he said."On the facts, Comet will struggle to mount the 'backup' copy defence by saying they are just protecting their customers' investment in the software because the discs are being sold separately.  If the discs had been bundled with the PC at the point-of-sale I think they would be on much stronger ground. I think they are in trouble."
Motorola owes its survival in recent times to two phones – the Razr and the Droid. Perhaps Motorola was hoping to sprinkle magic dust on its latest high-end offering by naming the version launched on Verizon's network in the US as the Droid Razr.Released in 2004, at a time when Motorola's market share was flagging against Nokia and cooler brands from the far East, the first Razr's ultra slimness appealed, and it went on to shift 130m units, becoming the world's best selling flip-open phone.The Droid came along in 2008, when Motorola was again in the doldrums, pushed out of the limelight this time by the iPhone. Chief executive Sanjay Jha bet the company's future on Android, the mobile operating system owned by Google. His first Android model, the Droid, was launched with Verizon and had a slide-out keypad akin to a palmtop computer; it proved popular in the US and went on to sell more units in its first few months than the iPhone.Otherwise known as the XT910, the latest Razr resembles its predecessors in more than name. It is one of the thinnest phones on the market, the main body just 7.1mm thick, although it widens at the top end. And, of course, it runs on Android.It also shares a certain 1980s-Terminator-cyborg aesthetic with the Droid. The military sci-fi references, appealing to Android's techie fanbase, are clearly intended. The reverse of the case is coated in a fabric woven from Kevlar, the synthetic material used in bullet proof vests.With a stainless steel frame, Motorola claims the case is strong enough to pass the famous "back pocket test". Sadly, the Razr fails the single-hand test. A great slab of a machine, measuring roughly 13x7cm, it does not balance well in the palm, and only feels safe with one set of digits holding the case while the other hand types.On the plus side, it has one of the fastest brains on the market combined with a very high resolution screen. With a 4.3in display and 960x540 pixels, the picture quality is superb and the 1.2GHz dual core processor ensures fast browsing. It has 16GB of inbuilt memory, and comes with an added 16GB on a microSD card.The Razr is able to take corporate email feeds, synchronise with work calendars and contact lists, and keep the information secure with passwords. Microsoft Word documents can be read and edited from the phone.The Android navigation is among the best I have used. Search for a street name, and after typing in the first few letters matching streets nearest your current location immediately appear. Click once to land on the map, and once more to see your current location flash on screen, with an arrow corresponding to the direction your phone is pointed in.With these generous features, the Razr deserves its high end positioning as an alternative to the iPhone or Samsung's latest Galaxy. But there are annoyances. The interface is busy and confusing, with apps and alerts scattered across five home screens.The battery only lasts a day, although that is now standard for most high specification smartphones.A universal inbox notifies the user of all new voicemails, text messages or instant messages from Facebook and the like, but this does not appear on the lock screen. Which means the handset must be unlocked before the user knows if anyone has tried to contact them.And, when replying to a text message from the universal inbox, the send button seems to disappear. Countless messages laboriously typed had to be discarded, and retyped after I had exited the inbox and opened the separate text message box.In aiming high with the latest Razr, Motorola has overlooked some important basics.Pros: fast processing, high resolution screen, office compatibleCons:hard to hold and dial with one hand, fiddly text messagingMotorola.comFeatures8 megapixel camera.7.1mm thick4.3in display960x540 pixel screen resolutionRuns on Android 2.3.5 Gingerbread127g weight1GB of RAM16GB of inbuilt storage16GB of storage on a microSD card1.2GHz dual core processor
If you had a bit of time on your hands over the festive break, you may have already cast your eyes over half a dozen "most anticipated games of 2012" lists. You'll have noted repeated mentions of Guild Wars 2, Borderlands 2 and Darksiders II, not to mention Diablo III, Mass Effect 3, Max Payne 3 and Far Cry 3. You'll have felt a lot of love for Bioshock: Infinite and Metal Gear Solid Rising,  and led by a deep sense of nostalgia, you may have already prepared a space on your shelves for re-boots like Tomb Raider, Syndicate, Xcom and SSX.But what of the new games – the originals, the titles that don't belong to a rolling franchise? Are there any of those to look forward to this year? Yes, of course there are – and we've tracked down 25 of them for your anticipatory pleasure.Yes, many of the following titles do look rather familiar, but there is some genuine innovation in here and – I'll stupidly venture – one or two potential game of the year contenders.If you're determined to limit your intake of heavily processed, endlessly re-packaged entertainment brands this year, this is a good place to start.Look out for Part Two on Thursday.Journey (Sony/thatgamecompany, PS3)Developer thatgamecompany has purposefully kept the narrative details of its intriguing adventure title secret, but the gist is, you're in a desert kingdom trying to reach a distant mountain, and you can team up with another player to get there. Everything else is a delicious mystery. We wrote a lot about this fascinating and highly experimental project last year and we're desperate to see how the unique anonymous co-op mode works. For now, check out ourinterview with producer Robin Hunicke, which provides a glimpse into the ideas behind the game.The Last Guardian (Sony/Team Ico, PS3)There were fears at the close of last year that we'd never see this third endeavour from celebrated Sony development studio, Team Ico – but despite the departure of the director Fumito Ueda (who retains control in a freelance capacity), it seems the titlewillarrive in 2012. Although details are sketchy, we can expect another mournful third-person adventure in the style of predecessor Shadows of the Colossus, but this time revolving around a boy trying to rescue a giant feathered creature named Trico from a looming citadel. Heartache, wonder and beauty are sure to follow.Lollipop Chainsaw (Warner Bros/Grasshopper, PS3, Xbox 360)Ah yes, it's the latest Grand Guignol slaughter-fest from the wonky mind of creative director Suda 51, previously responsible for the likes of Killer 7, No more Heroes and Shadows of the Damned. Set in a US high school that's suddenly overrun with zombies and featuring a sexy cheerleader as its lead character, we're expecting a cross between Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Dawn of the Dead, as re-imagined by Troma Entertainment. Boasting oodles of gore, politically incorrect sex appeal and hallucinogenic visuals – it could either turn out to be the exploitation hit of the year or a leering, misogynistic fantasy with lots of swearing. Either way, we're keen to see it.Overstrike (EA/Insomniac, PS3, Xbox 360Having spent the last decade as a PlayStation-only developer cranking out hit franchises Ratchet and Clank and Resistance, Insomniac is going multi-platform in 2012. Overstrike is a four-player co-op shooter, where a ragtag group of mercenaries, thieves and scientists must prevent a global terrorist group from destroying mankind. Boasting slightly cartoon-ish visuals, ridiculous gadgets and over-sized weaponry, Overstrike's metaphorical tongue is placed firmly in its cheek here – and while the set-up hardly screams innovation, we're hoping the co-operative dynamics lead to lots of fun sci-fi blasting.Devil's Third (THQ/Valhalla Game Sudios, PS3, Xbox 360)The latest title from every feminist's favourite game designer Tomonobu Itagaki (the creator of bosom-fest Dead or Alive), Devil's Third looks to be a thematic continuation of his work on the Ninja Gaiden series – with a slight deviation: it's still about bloody third-person hyper-violence, but now it's a shooter rather than a sword-slasher. Other than that, little is known about the game at the moment, but the trailers look … intense.Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning (EA/38 Studios, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)With the RPG landscape currently dominated by monsters like Dragon Age, Elder Scrolls, Fable and Final Fantasy is there rooms for another epic universe to sidle in and wave its morning star about? Well, yeah, if the RPG in question is designed by Elder Scrolls veteran Ken Rolston, with a story by fantasy novelist RA Salvatore and art styling from Todd McFarlane. The promise is smooth combat, constant character customisation and an engrossing narrative – it'll need all of them to prise fans away from last year's behemoths Skyrim and Dark Souls.The Secret World (Funcom/EA, PC)If you're looking for a whole new massively multiplayer online experience to dominate your life this year, the latest ambitious creation from Age of Conan creator Funcom could be just the thing. The Secret World is a conspiracy-fuelled adventure in which players join one of three arcane societies – the Illuminati, the Dragon or the Templars – and then battle their enemies across a modern day setting splattered with mythological and religious elements. Apparently, there will be no levelling up and no classes – players will customise their characters via a freeform, skill-based system, ridding the game of the grinding process that puts many off the whole MMORPG concept. Previews have been positive and a beta is due to start soon.Escape Plan (Sony/Fun Bits, PlayStation Vita)Although Uncharted: Golden Abyss is attracting much of the attention, the most interesting PlayStation Vita launch title is actually an idiosyncratic monochrome puzzler from Seattle-based developer Fun Bits. Your aim is to help two weird characters named Lil and Laarg escape from a labyrinth filled with fiendish traps. Naturally, this involves using the console's array of touchscreen and analogue inputs to prod, squeeze and shove the duo through a deadly mass of spikes, chasms and hammers. As Fun Bits are the chaps behind acclaimed multiplayer strategy game, Fat Princess, we're expecting bags of offbeat fun and charm.I am alive (Ubisoft, PS3, Xbox 360)Ubisoft's survival horror adventure has been "downsized" to a digital release since its original announcement three years ago, but this still looks to be an ambitious and intriguing title. Your job is to help an everyman survivor track down his family in a post-apocalyptic America, in the immediate aftermath of some kind of massive global disaster. Exploration is the key activity, but players will also have to find, use and/or barter goods like food, climbing equipment and cigarettes with other survivors. Think The Day After Tomorrow crossed with Irem's Disaster Report series.Fez (polytron, Xbox 360)Pitched on some uncanny plane of the imagination between Super Paper Mario and Echochrome, Fez is a gorgeous 2D/3D platformer, which uses Escher-esque optical illusions and perspective shifts to create new pathways for the player. The retro-tinged visuals, chiptune soundtrack and brilliantly lateral puzzles have made it a favourite on the indie scene, but we expect creator Phil Fish – who has laboured over this gem for three years – may well have a crossover hit on his hands.Asura's Wrath (Capcom/CyberConnect2, PS3, Xbox 360)Oh okay,anotherthird-person hack-'em-up. But it's okay, because this one intriguingly mixes mythological and sci-fi themes and locations, and is by CyberConnect2, the studio responsible for the cult .hack series of action RPGs. Asura it turns out is an ancient warrior, re-animated after 12,000 years and out for revenge on those who betrayed him. Retribution will involve highly charged melee combat, interactive cinematic sequences and an episodic TV series-style structure.Botanicula (Amanita design, PC, Mac)A real crowd-pleaser at 2011's GameCity festival, Botanicula is the latest eerily atmospheric point-and-click puzzle adventure from Czech studio, Amanita design. Players control a group of surreal woodland creatures as they attempt to save their enormous tree habitat from a dark force. Each screen is filled with beautiful animations and mini-games the likes of which you'll find absolutely nowhere else. We can't wait to gaze at it in quiet awe.Sound Shapes (Sony/Queasy Games, PS Vita)Is it a 2D scrolling platformer? Is it a music creation app? Why, this highly stylised Vita title from Toronto-based Queasy Games is both! As players explore the vibrant environment, they lay down new musical notes, creating a sort of emergent ambient soundtrack – which can then be uploaded and shared with other players. Set to feature tracks by dance music superstar Deadmau5 this one could be muscling in on Wipeout 2048's role as the hippest title on Vita.BattleBlock Theater (The Behemoth, Xbox 360)When renowned adventurer Hatty Hattington washes up on a tropical island, the last thing he expects to find is a gladitorial threatre run by a demonic civilisation of intelligent cats. Yet that is exactly where he and his faithful servant end up in this crazed comic book-style platformer from indie legend Behemoth, famous for catapulting Alien Hominid and Castle Crashers onto an unsuspecting public. What follows is a series of fiendish puzzle platform levels in which players can take part together, switching between co-op and competitive tactics as they help each other through the traps, while also trying to pick up the most gems. We played this XBLA treat at the Tokyo Game Show, and it is ludicrously entertaining. Likely to be one of the downloadable highlights of the year.Beat Sneak Bandit (Simogo, iOS)Billed as a rhythmic puzzle adventure, the latest visual treat from Swedish duo Simogo has you stealing clocks from evil genius Baron Von Clockface on a series of platform levels. Every move in the game, from opening doors to evading guards, has to be matched to the soundtrack, so learning the rhythms and stepping accordingly is the key. Like its predecessor, Bumpy Road, Beat Sneak Bandit has a lovely, whimsical look reminiscent of old Friz Freleng cartoons. It's just about as far from Devil's Third as you could hope to get.
Google has radically downrated its Chrome browser in its search index, effectively giving itself a slap on the wrist, after it became the object of "sponsored posts" where bloggers were paid to promote a video about it.Google fell foul of its own rules after it hired a company called Essence Digital to promote its Chrome browser through a series of video ads, featuring a YouTube video ostensibly about a small business that has been helped by its web presence.The task of placing the video ads was then handed on to Unruly Media, which recruited bloggers who posted the video – and in a number of cases also wrote some text to go with it, often with the phrase: "This post is sponsored by Google." In at least one case, the blogger also linked directly to Google Chrome.That breaks Google's rules on paid promotion to push links up its own search index, and so it has penalised itself – just at a time when it had been seeking to drive greater adoption of its own browser.Matt Cutts, head of Google's team which fights web spam,wrote in explanation:Even though we only found a single sponsored post that actually linked to Google's Chrome page and passed PageRank, that's still a violation of our quality guidelines, which you can find athttp://support.google.com/webmasters/bin/answer.py?hl=en&amp;answer=35769#3.In response, the webspam team has taken manual action to demote www.google.com/chrome for at least 60 days. After that, someone on the Chrome side can submit a reconsideration request documenting their clean-up just like any other company would. During the 60 days, the PageRank of www.google.com/chrome will also be lowered to reflect the fact that we also won't trust outgoing links from that page.The decision means that Google has declined to give itself special dispensation, even though it insists it was not directly responsible for the creation of the sponsored posts.In a statement, a Google spokesperson said: "While Google did not authorise this campaign, and we can find no remaining violations of our webmaster guidelines, we believe Google should be held to a higher standard, so we have taken stricter action than we would against a typical site."In a search by the Guardian, "browser" does not return a link to Google's Chrome in the first 10 results, (although an ad for it is the top on the right-hand side). No link to it was found in the first 50 results in a search by the Guardian. Searching for "browser" on Microsoft's Bing.com turns up a link to Google Chrome as the fourth result, as well as an advert.A link to a page explaining how to install Google Chrome is still the top result in a Google or Bing search for "chrome", as well as having an advert for the browser placed above the search results.Cutts insisted that the intent of the campaign was "[only] to get people to watch videos – not link to Google". But it is unclear why Google would pay an agency to get bloggers to post a video if it did not expect that it would have some broader benefit to its product's visibility in web rankings.
Will the Angry Birds bubble burst in 2012? It showed no sign of flagging in 2011 right up to the end of the year. Developer Rovio Mobile says its three Angry Birds games generated 6.5m downloads on Christmas Day alone.The company's vice president of franchise development Ville Heijari revealed the milestone toAll Things Digital, while promising new games in the year ahead."We're really excited to have such a massive number of new people get acquainted with Angry Birds over the holidays – we have exciting new releases lined up for 2012, and can't wait to introduce them to the public," said Heijari.He did not break down the 6.5m figure by game – Angry Birds, Angry Birds Seasons and Angry Birds Rio are the three available titles – nor did he split them out by platform.While the lion's share are likely to have come from iOS and Android, Angry Birds is also available on Windows Phone, while all three games are available for Nokia handsets and RIM's BlackBerry PlayBook tablet.As a point of comparison, mobile analytics firm Flurry estimated that 242m apps were downloaded on iOS and Android on Christmas Day. If all the Angry Birds downloads had come from those two platforms, they would represent just under 2.7% of the total.It's worth recapping the growth of Angry Birds in 2011; a year in which it saw startling growth. In mid-December 2010, Angry Birds hadnotched up 50m downloads. In March 2011, Rovio announced that it hadpassed the 100m mark, before the launch of new games and a free Android version of the original Angry Birds led to lift-off.By June, the Angry Birds games hadpassed 250m downloads, beforehitting 400m in October, then500m in November.By December 2011, Rovio wastelling the Financial Timesthat its download total was past 600m, and that the company was on course to generate revenues of $100m from the franchise in 2011 alone – ten times its revenues the previous year.Rovio has tended to announce regular download milestones, but in October 2011 it gave someactive user figurestoo: 30m daily active players and 130m monthly active players.Revenues come from a mixture of paid game sales and in-app purchases of its Mighty Eagle power-up; advertising and sponsorship deals; and sales of licensed products – in September 2011, it wasshifting 1m toys and 1m t-shirts a month.And now to 2012... Heijari's talk of new games shows the key way Rovio is planning to continue its growth. That means new platforms for the existing games too – Facebook and games consoles – as well as the long-awaited new spins on the Angry Birds formula.Rovio's partnership with Nokia to launch Angry Birds in the developing world should not be underestimated either. At the Nokia World conference in October 2011, its marketing boss Peter Vesterbackamade his ambitions clear:"We can reach totally new audiences in India, in Africa and all the emerging markets," said Vesterbacka. "We're really excited about that. We have 400 million-plus downloads, but hopefully we can add another 400 million together with Nokia in the next few months."The long-trailed movie and/or TV cartoons may come to fruition in 2012 too, along with more merchandise. But perhaps the most interesting question about Rovio in the coming 12 months is whether the company will be acquired or go public.The New York Timesreported in Novemberthat Rovio had rejected a $2.25bn acquisition offer from social games publisher Zynga in the summer of 2011. Meanwhile, in December, Vesterbacka fuelled speculation about an IPO in Asia in aninterview with Reuters.Havingraised a $42m funding roundin March 2011 co-led by Accel Partners and Atomico Ventures, those investors will have their own ideas about a lucrative exit strategy for Rovio in the next year or two.
Beyond Oblivion, the music streaming startup part-owned by News Corporation, has closed weeks before even making it to launch.The announcement came less than a year after the New York-based company raised $87m (£55.8m) to build the ambitious music streaming service – dubbed Boinc – in an already crowded digital market dominated by Apple's iTunes. The service was due for a beta launch in the autumn.Unlike existing online music players, Boinc promised to be free of advertising and subscription fees.Adam Kidron, founder and chief executive of Beyond Oblivion, said the service would be adopted by internet service providers and built-in to hardware, such as mobile phones and cars.The service planned to be available as a paid-for application on iPhone and Android smartphones. Kidron said the company would pay 70% of its annual revenues to the rights holders, as well as a royalty fee each time their music is played.However, Kidron has now said the start-up suffered from the difficulty of "coordinating the diversity of the ecosystem", including complex licensing deals for artists, labels and manufacturers.As recently as October, it is understood that Beyond Oblivion had all but convinced the four music majors of its ambitious plan.One executive at the company told the Guardian in October that it had "just started ingesting content" from the fourth and final music major, and was "alpha testing" before a low-key beta launch before the end of 2011.It was reportedby the Daily Telegraphon Tuesday that Beyond Oblivion had burnt through its $87m (£55m) fund raised from a coalition of investors, including News Corp, which invested $11.2m in two separate funding rounds – in April 2010 and March 2011 – for a stake of about 23%.A public launch for the ambitious service looked less likely towards the end of 2011 whenFacebook made sweeping changes to its site, bringing the social network closer to rival music players including Spotify and Deezer.Beyond Oblivion suffered a further setback in October last year when Spotify partnered with Virgin Media, giving customers of the UK's second biggest ISP six months of free premium access to the music player.BT, the UK's largest ISP, was alsoplanning to launch its own digital music service in 2011, although no launch is thought to be imminent.As well as the rise of increasingly popular music streaming services, Apple has continued to improve its market leading iTunes. Apple launched its "cloud" storage service, iTunes Match, which replicates all music stored on a user's computer – including illegally-downloaded material and tracks ripped from CDs – with better-quality alternatives from its own "cloud" for £21.99 a year, in the UK in December.The launch was welcomed by music publishers and pundits, who said iTunes Match allows the music industry to generate revenue from years of illicit downloads.Beyond Oblivion had not returned a request for comment at the time of publication.Kidron said in a statementto the Daily Telegraph: "Beyond was always a tremendously grand ambition as the advances required by the record labels and music publishers were substantial, reflecting the breadth of the rights required to create a true digital music one-stop."
A selection of 10 apps for you today:IWM's Great British Posters from the Second World WarMake Do and Mend, Dig for Victory, Keep Mum She's Not so Dumb... Some of the slogans from British posters during the Second World War have remained in the collective memory. Now they're in an app from IWM, which is billed as "Volume 1" with more to come. More than 30 posters are included, with the stories behind them too.iPhone / iPadThe Tooth That's on the LooseEmmy-nominated storyboard artist and director Chris Robertson has created a Wild West-themed book-app about T.B. Wiggly: "A slippery, shifty little varmint". Who's also a tooth. Animation, interactivity and colouring add to its kid-appeal.Android / iPhone / iPadLegendary HeroesAction real-time strategy game Legendary Heroes is picking up some buzz on iOS, offering three-hero teams competing across 30 maps, with a free-to-play model aiming to pull in lots of gamers.iPhone / iPadBig Block PartyNokia's partnership with Sesame Street has yielded up two new book-apps this week, starting with Big Block Party. Based around Elmo helping his friends make party food, the app includes recipes for all those snacks for children to make in the real world with their parents.Nokia100th Day of SchoolThe second Nokia / Sesame Street app also puts Elmo centre-stage, focusing on celebrating schooldays. Possibly useful for parents whose children are rebelling at the thought of returning to school this week after the Christmas holidays.NokiaKloutIs Klout more than just a vanity service for self-styled social media gurus? The jury remains out on that one. However, there is a slick-looking unofficial Klout app for Windows Phone, letting people check and share their Klout scores. One question: if it's unofficial, how come it's able to bag the name "Klout" on the Windows Phone Marketplace?Windows Phone(spotted byWPCentral)MapleStory Cave CrawlersPopular online game MapleStory has spawned a new iPhone game, Cave Crawlers. It sees players exploring the Maple World battling monsters and exploring dungeons. It's a paid app – £1.49 – which also uses in-app purchases for in-game boosts.iPhoneSpringerLinkScientific publication database SpringerLink includes articles and content from more than 2,500 journals and 48,000 books. Now there's an app for that, including notification and sharing features. An institutional subscription is required.iPhoneInstaFlowInstaFlow is an iPhone and iPad app that aims to help people store and browse Instagram pictures by grouping them in virtual stacks. Interestingly, it's the work of mobile operator Orange's Orange Labs team.iPhone / iPadBag It &amp; Bin ItWessex Water has commissioned a free iPhone game that aims to teach people what not to flush down the toilet. "Your goal is to bin any objects thrown by our mischievous fellow that should not be flushed down the toilet."iPhone
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhy Best Buy is Going out of Business...Gradually &gt;&gt; ForbesIf you work in a physical retailer, read this. Your future employment might depend on understanding its lessons.ITWriting.com awards 2011: ten key happenings, from Nokia's burning platform to HP's nightmare year &gt;&gt; Tim Anderson's ITWritingVery good. If you're not following Tim Anderson's writing, you should.Bonuses offered to stop staff quitting GCHQ in Cheltenham &gt;&gt; This is Gloucestershire"BONUSES are being used to tempt cyber spies not to leave their jobs at GCHQ."A package of perks and incentives is being handed to technology experts at the Cheltenham base. The Government has approved the payouts in an effort to stop staff leaving for jobs at firms such as Google and Microsoft." CYBER SPIES. Now that's a job title.Google+ visits in US hit 49m in December &gt;&gt; HitwiseHitwise has the data. That's a lot of visits (and likely excludes mobile, because Hitwise operates via ISPs).Google's coming tablet: a response to Kindle Fire, not the iPad &gt;&gt; MarketinglandGreg Sterling thinks Amazon has got Google itchy: "Pricing will be the strategic decision Google has to make with its branded ("Chome" or "Nexus"?) tablet. It won't be able to stem the tide of Amazon Kindle Fire sales without matching or beating its price. If it declines to offer a 7? tablet and only goes after the 10? category, it could have success with a "good enough" tablet priced aggressively ($300 or below). Would Google equally be willing to break even or take a modest loss to ensure tablet sales? My guess is that it would."Google has seemingly lost confidence in its OEM partners' capacity to make and sell tablets and is now taking the matter into its own hands. Yet by doing so it also risks alienating those same Android smartphone partners by bringing out a lower-priced Google-branded device."Not so smart anymore: Microsoft's watches are done &gt;&gt; GeekWireFrom a more innocent, stupid age: "Microsoft's Smart Personal Object Technology, also known as SPOT, wasoriginally unveiled by Bill Gates a decade ago. It was a neat concept - using FM transmissions to deliver lightweight data services such as news headlines, sports scores, gas prices and weather to devices. It started with watches and later expanded to GPS navigation units andeven a coffee maker."Of course, it was our phones that ended up being the smart devices in our lives, giving us all of that information and more via cellular and WiFi networks."And yesterday marked the official end of the Microsoft initiative, as theMSN Direct service that powered the devices went dark."Microsoft to enable Linux on its Windows Azure cloud in 2012 &gt;&gt; ZDNetMary Jo Foley: "What does this mean? Customers who want to run Windows or Linux "durably" (i.e., without losing state) in VMs on Microsoft's Azure platform-as-a-service platform will be able to do so. Microsoft is planning to launch a Community Technology Preview (CTP) test-build of the persistent VM capability in the spring of 2012, according to partners briefed by the company."The new persistent VM support also will allow customers to run SQL Server or SharePoint Server in VMs, as well. And it will enable customers to more easily move existing apps to the Azure platform."What this means is that Microsoft is really serious about the cloud business.Christy Wyatt on how Motorola plans to stand out from the Android pack &gt;&gt; AllThingsDWyatt is a former Palm and Apple executive now corporate VP and general manager for mobile devices at Motorola Mobility: "If you were to ask us, we were very happy with the way we turned out in 2011. We spun out as a separate company. Motorola split into two companies. It was our first year on our own as a standalone mobility company. We had some fantastic product hits."The bottom line is the mobile business is a hits business. There's some that are blockbusters and there are some that are not. But, in general, I think we are very happy with where we ended up."Moments away from being inside Google at a premium to the share price? Most executives would like that.CSS3 progress bars &gt;&gt; Josh Sullivan"I made CSS3 progress bars for a display of data inside localised leaderboards for the new analytics platform atG5."They are light-weight, requiring no Javascript. They look great on iOS devices and they're incredibly simple to use and customise. No images are used.""These progress bars arefree to download at Github."Apple to appeal Italian warranty fine &gt;&gt; The Register"Apple will appeal against the fine imposed by the Italian regulator for failing to respect the legal warranty requirements, and (astonishingly) we know this because Apple told us."The fruitchomp firm reckons that despite the regulator's ruling it is complying with Italian law, and will be appealing against the decision by the regulator to fine the company $1.2m. The Italian authorities have accused Apple of failing to advise customers of their legal right to a two-year warranty, instead offering them one year and then promoting AppleCare as an optional extension, an accusation Apple denies."Not over yet, then.Symbian is still top mobile OS - finished 2011 with resurgence &gt;&gt; Royal Pingdom"Using StatCounter's figures for mobile operating systems we charted the main mobile operating systems during 2011. To summarize, Symbian finished stronger than it started, iOS dropped a little bit, Android gained a lot, and BlackBerry was all but decimated."Strictly, not decimated, but substantially cut. As or Symbian - hard as nails, eh?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard
Strong sales of the Amazon Kindle Fire have eaten into iPad sales, says Tavis McCourt of the stockbrokers Morgan Keegan, who has lowered his estimate of the number of Apple tablets sold in the fourth quarter to the end of December 2011 from 16m to 13m.But McCourt raised his forecast for the number of iPhones sold from 27m to 29m, and calculates that Apple will report revenues of $37.9bn (£24.2bn), its biggest ever – although that is a slight reduction on his previous forecast of $38.1bn.Meanwhile, the electronics giant Samsung may have sold as many as 35m smartphones in the quarter, a record for the sector. The company is expected to report its guidance for the quarter on Friday, ahead of its detailed figures later in January.In a new note on Apple issued on Tuesday, McCourt said he was lowering his estimate for iPad sales after seeing data from Amazon which suggested it could have sold between 4m and 5m of its Kindle Fire tablet, "which probably means maybe 1-2m cannibalised iPad sales at most".While the forecast iPhone figures would make it Apple's best-ever quarter for its smartphones, they would lag behind Samsung's by a substantial amount. The smartphone and tablet business is now Samsung's most profitable.McCourt said that he had also lowered his estimate for the number of Macintosh computers sold slightly, from 4.9m to 4.8m. That would however still represent a 17.7% increase on last year while the rest of the PC market is forecast to have seen near-zero growth as a number of companies struggled with hard disk inventory shortages caused by floods inTaiwanThailand.It would also mark 23 straight quarters in which Apple's Macintosh sales have grown faster than the Windows PC market.Seeing stormy financial weather ahead – particularly with the doubts over the fate of the euro – the analyst lowered his "target" price for Apple's stock, from $530 to $513. Apple's stock currently trades at $405."We believe December will turn out to be another great quarter for Apple with share gains in Mac and iPhone product lines, and continued strong growth in iPad, although slightly slower than we originally anticipated," McCourt wrote."We expect Apple to continue to show strong growth in fiscal 2012 with the success of a forthcoming iPad upgrade and continued sales of iPhone 4S being the major determinants of what rate Apple can grow this year. We expect iPhone 5 in [autumn] 2012 to be a significant revenue and earnings growth driver, and a potential Apple TV as upside to our model if it comes to fruition this year."We do expect Y/Y [year-on-year] growth to be somewhat more challenging in March/June for Apple due to tough comparisons from fiscal 2011."Corrected: the floods affecting hard drive manufacture were in Thailand, not Taiwan.
Research In Motion is reportedly close to a decision on stripping its co-chief executives of their other shared role as chairmen of the board, a change that could meet a key demand from angry and disillusioned investors.The National Post newspaper, citing "sources familiar with events,"said Barbara Stymiest, currently an independent member of RIM's board, is leading the race to replace the co-founders Mike Lazaridis and Jim Balsillie in the chairmanship.RIM shares jumped more than 7% on investor hopes that the struggling BlackBerry maker was listening to increasingly strident demands for change.At the same time, the company has slashed prices of its PlayBook tablet in the US by up to $400 (£255), offering all three versions of the product – with storages of 16GB, 32GB and 64GB – for the same price of $299 until the finish of its current financial quarter at the end of February. That is a discount of $400 against the original price when the device was first introduced in April 2011.But with RIM having taken a $485m writeoff against the value of PlayBooks in its warehouses in December, effectively writing down the value of 1.2m of the devices that it had to zero, it now profits if it can sell them at any price. It has shipped roughly 850,000 of the devices in its first nine months.The missteps over the PlayBook and delays to the introduction of handsets built on a new operating system, now not expected until later this year. have intensified the focus on RIM's unusual boardroom structure, where co-founders Lazaridis and Balsillie are both co-CEOs and co-chairmen. They are also RIM's second- and third-largest shareholders, with a little more than 5% of the stock apiece."Any talk about an independent chairman is going to give this company a boost. It will increase the likelihood the value of this company will be unlocked," said BGC Partners analyst Colin Gillis. "It breaks the stranglehold the current CEOs and co-chairs have on the company."But other analysts doubted Stymiest, if named to the chairmanship, would actually assume the transformational role that activist shareholders are calling for.Jaguar Financial Corporation, which says it speaks for 12 of the company's 20 largest shareholders and 8% of its stockholders, has beencalling for some months for boardroom changeincluding the splitting of the CEO and chairman roles.The precipitous RIM share-price drop in 2011, which has seen it barely worth the value of its assets, prompted calls by some analysts and investors for RIM to consider strategic alternatives such as a split or an outright sale of the company.Sources told Reuters in December thatAmazon.com and other suitors had considered making a bid for RIM, but the board wanted to focus on a turnaround instead.In June, RIM agreed to study its unusual corporate structure and report back to investors by the end of January.RIM did not respond directly to the National Post report, but said a committee of its seven independent directors was on track to deliver recommendations by 31 January. That committee includes Stymiest, who has sat on the RIM board since 2007 and who is one of Canada's most successful businesswomen.Analysts were not sure if Stymiest could herald the more radical change activist investors want if she took over as chair, or if such a change would just be more window-dressing at a company that has earned a reputation for over-promising and under-delivering."She's being thrust into the limelight to appease shareholders. It doesn't really do much for me personally," said Matthew Thornton, an analyst at Avian Securities in Boston. "This one action doesn't solve anything, in my mind."Trained as an accountant, Stymiest was a partner at Ernst &amp; Young, then chief financial officer of Bank of Montreal's Nestbitt Burns investment bank before becoming head of the Toronto Stock Exchange in 1999.In her five years as chief executive of Canada's largest stock market, she shepherded the bourse through one of the most transformative periods in its 150-year history.She brought the exchange public in 2002, expanded the company into bond and energy trading, and acquired the resource-focused Canadian Venture Exchange, making the Toronto exchange a mining and energy powerhouse.Notably for RIM investors and customers weary of BlackBerry network outages, Stymiest put an end to an embarrassing series of technical glitches that had plagued the exchange after it went electronic in 1997.Stymiest left the exchange late in 2004 to become chief operating officer at Royal Bank of Canada, making her the apparent front-runner to eventually replace CEO Gord Nixon as the first female bank CEO in Canada.But Stymiest appeared to lose influence at the bank, and was shifted to a lesser executive role in 2009. She left RBC, the country's largest lender, in 2011.
It's the first Wednesday of 2012!
A Canadian man who realised that he had left his passport at home as he approached the US border managed to cross over by using his Apple iPad.In a novel deployment of the tablet that may have come as a surprise even to the late Steve Jobs, Martin Reisch said that a mildly annoyed US border officer made an exception after he was handed the iPad displaying a scanned copy of the forgotten passport.Reisch was a half hour from the border between the US and the Canadian province of Quebec when he decided to try to gain entry rather than turn back and make a two-hour trek back home to Montreal to fetch his passport.He told the officer he was heading to the US to drop off Christmas gifts for his friend's kids. He said that the true story, the scanned passport and his driver's license helped him get through last week."I thought I'd at least give it a try," said Reisch, according to reports by the Associated Press."He took the iPad into the little border hut. He was in there a good five, six minutes. It seemed like an eternity. When he came back he took a good long pause before wishing me a Merry Christmas."US Customs and Border Protection says it only accepts a passport, an enhanced driver's license or a Nexus pass from Canadian citizens entering at land crossings. The list doesn't mention facsimiles, like scans and photocopies.Reisch, 33, said he took a scanned photo of his passport years ago in case it was ever lost or stolen while travelling. He said he also successfully used the passport on his iPad to get through Canadian Customs on the way home later that day.However, the 33-year-old said he doubted that he would get away with it again and would take his passport next time, although he hopes border officials will eventually make digital identification an official form of travel document."I see the future as 100% being able to cross with your identity on a digital device it's just a matter of time," he said.
Google is wrestling with a thorny conundrum: should it block its own Chrome browser from its search index for between a month and a year for breaking its own rules on paid links, after a mixup by some bloggers for a video advertising scheme?The problem has arisen after Google paid Unruly Media, an international media agency, to get a number of paid bloggers to promote a video for its Chrome browser featuring a US flour company.Update:Google has demoted its Chrome browser in search results as a result of the scheme.Read the latest story.But while the bloggers did the job they had been asked to, and put up the video, some went beyond what Unruly Media – and Google – had expected them to, and included links to places where you could download the Chrome browser. Crucially, though, they didn't use the "nofollow" text that Google mandates for paid links. That, strictly, took them over the line on paid links.Update:a company called Essence Digital has now said that it acted as an intermediary between Google and Unruly Media. In apost on Google+, it said:We want to be perfectly clear here: Google never approved a sponsored-post campaign. They only agreed to buy online video ads. Google have consistently avoided paid postings to promote their products, because in their view these kind of promotions are not transparent or in the best interests of users.In this case, Google were subjected to this activity through media that encouraged bloggers to create what appeared to be paid posts, were often of poor quality and out of line with Google standards. We apologize to Google who clearly didn't authorize this.The "sponsored" blogposts (such asthis one, though it does not link to Chrome) were firstnoticed by Aaron Wall at SEO Book. He commented: "You can say they didn't require the links, that the links were incidental, that leaving nofollow off was an accident, etc ... but does Google presume the same level of innocence when torching webmasters? They certainly did not to the bloggers who reviewed K-Mart [who were removed from the search ranking] and the Google reconsideration request form states: 'In general, sites that directly profit from traffic (e.g. search engine optimisers, affiliate programmes, etc) may need to provide more evidence of good faith before a site will be reconsidered.'"At Search Engine Land, Danny Sullivanwrote: "Potentially, all this means that Google will have to ban the Google Chrome download page over paid links. That would suck for Google, since it's busy running ads for Google Chrome, which will in turn prompt people to search for it. Right now, the page appears at the top of results for searches on 'google chrome'."Andrew Girdwood, who has worked in the past with Unruly Media,said: "My hunch is that individual bloggers have written editorials for their sponsored video (which is just a CPA [cost per action] ad [where bloggers would get paid any time somebody watches the ad] – like so many others, just like any affiliate deal) and put a link naturally into that text … I doubt these posts were about links."Scott Button, the chief executive of Unruly Media, told the Guardian: "A blogger, who we didn't ask to link to a Google Chrome page, linked to a Google Chrome page, and did so without using the nofollow attribute. Obviously they shouldn't do this in the context of a blog post that embeds one of our sponsored videos. As soon as we found out about it, we got it fixed. To be clear, we're not in the business of getting bloggers to write about products or link to advertisers' websites. We distrubute branded video content, and we pay bloggers (and big websites and app developers) when their audiences watch the videos. That's what Google paid us to do, and that's our business. The SEM [search engine marketing] angle is basically a red herring - it doesn't bear any relation to our business nor any relation to the objectives of the Google Chrome campaign."Button declined to say how much bloggers are paid per viewing. Unruly Media runs about a thousand social video campaigns annually from nine offices, Button said. "It's a grown up business and growing very fast, but this is still small beer in relation to the $500bn plus that brands spend on media each year."But just as concerning for a number of observers was the content of the posts preceding the video: Wall called it "low-quality filler pablum content that the Panda update was alleged to discourage", while Sullivan commented: "That's perhaps the bigger problem with this campaign, much more disturbing to me. Google's paying to produce a lot of garbage."But that "garbage" appeared to be having benefits, based on Sullivan's searching: the Telecommutingmommies post linked above ranked second, when he looked, in a search for "google chrome benefits". When the Guardian tried the same search on Tuesday evening, the same post also ranked second.That, says Sullivan, pollutes the results: "Imagine you're someone trying to understand the benefits to using Google Chrome versus other browsers. Out of 21m possible matches, two of Google's sponsored garbage posts make it into the top 10 results."Even worse, he says, is that the video which caused all the trouble doesn't actually mention Chrome at all. "You may have seen on television already. It has nothing to do even with how Chrome actually helped the Vermont flour producer featured, King Arthur Flour, succeed … Since King Arthur Flour has been online sinceat least December 2006, I'm willing to bet it got its start through the Internet Explorer browser. It sure wasn't Chrome, which didn't exist at the time."In a statement, Google said: "Google never agreed to anything more than online ads. We have consistently avoided paid sponsorships, including paying bloggers to promote our products, because these kind of promotions are not transparent or in the best interests of users. We're now looking at what changes we need to make to ensure that this never happens again."(Disclosure: Unruly Media provides the Guardian's Viral Video Chart)
It's been a year sinceI reviewed The Net Delusion, Evgeny Morozov's skeptical take on the internet's role in global justice struggles.Central to Morozov's critique was the undeniable fact that Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and other social media tools are monumentally unsuited to use in hostile revolutionary settings, because while they may get the word out about forthcoming demonstrations and the outrages that provoke them, they also expose their users to retribution from oppressive governments.What's more, they reveal the social ties between dissidents, making it easy for secret policemen to swoop in and round up whole movements without having to bother with the tedious business of wiretapping and surveillance in order to figure out whom to arrest.At the time, Iarguedthat the risks presented by these tools weren't inherent. There's no reason that you couldn't design a Facebook-like tool that helped galvanise and organise a Tunisian resistance without exposing its users to arrest and torture (for starters, you could simply abolish Facebook's "real-name" requirement and allow users to use pseudonyms).But given the context in which Facebook arose – a Harvard lark that became a global targeted advertising powerhouse – there's no reason that anyone involved in the system's design and upkeep would ever think to harden the system against attack by dictators and their apparatchiks.Now that the need was visible, people who cared about the plight of those who suffer in oppressive regimes would work with those people to develop tools that helped to network their users without exposing their users.And indeed, the last year has seen enormous energy put into this task, with extensive development of Wikileaks-style whistleblowing platforms, anonymising tools likeTor, and accessible primers on their use.So far, so good. But last night, I listened to Ethan Zuckerman's 2011 Vancouver Human Rights lecture,Cute Cats and The Arab Spring, and I realised that Morozov and I werebothwrong. Zuckerman is the director of MIT's Centre for Civic Media and the founder of Geekcorps, an NGO that sends technologists to the developing world to work on locally initiated, sustainable technology initiatives.He knows an awful lot of the daily, gritty reality of the internet's place in free speech and justice contexts in some of the world's most brutal and censorious regimes.The whole speech is worth listening to, but I was especially taken by Zuckerman's "cute cats theory" of internet revolution.Zuckerman's argument is this: while YouTube, Twitter, Facebook (and other popular social services) aren't good at protecting dissidents, they are nevertheless the best place for this sort of activity to start, for several reasons.First, because when YouTube is taken off your nation's internet, everyone notices, not just dissidents. So if a state shuts down a site dedicated to exposing official brutality, only the people who care about that sort of thing already are likely to notice.But when YouTube goes dark, all the people who want to look at cute cats discover that their favourite site is gone, and they start to ask their neighbours why, and they come to learn that there exists video evidence of official brutality so heinous and awful that the government has shut out all of YouTube in case the people see it.Second, the most common tool used by oppressive regimes against dissident sites is distributed denial of service (DDOS), sending floods of traffic from networks of thousands of compromised PCs that overwhelms the target server and knocks it off the internet.Services such as Twitter, Facebook and YouTube are much better at surviving these attacks than a home-brewed dissident site.Finally, Zuckerman argues that the lesson from the Arab spring is that revolutions are touched off by everyday people with everyday grievances – arbitrary detention, corruption and police brutality – and those people will use the tools they are familiar with to get the word out.The first thing that comes to mind after you capture a mobile phone video of the police murdering a family member isn't "Let's see, I wonder if there's a purpose-built activist tool that I can use for distributing this clip?" Rather, the first thing that comes to mind is, "I'd better post this on Facebook/YouTube/Twitter so that everyone can see it."This last argument is the most convincing to me. While activist tools are vital to a continuing struggle, they're never going to be the system of first recourse when disaster strikes.Which means that the only way to keep activists, dissidents, and those who struggle against brutal oppression safe is to somehow convince the people who make the world's most popular social tools to harden them from the get-go.This is an uphill task to begin with, but it is only made harder by the demands of "liberal" governments in Europe, Canada, the US and other "free" countries who want to be sure that they can spy on their own populations with social media.Add to that legislative insanity like the pendingUS Stop Online Piracy Act(SOPA), which requires services to spy on their users and delete links to infringing content, and the problem becomes three times as hard.It's not a pretty picture. And yet, at least, it gives us a road map.First, we have to convince our own governments that when they mandate snoopy back-doors and kill-switches in social media, they give that capacity to dictators, too.Secondly, we have to make the connection between copyright enforcement surveillance and global justice struggles, by explaining as often as necessary that you can't make a system that prevents spying by secret police and allows spying by media giants.And finally, we have to convince these businesses that it is in their interests to make the architectural changes that protect their users from arbitrary detention, torture and murder when they make the unplanned transition from cute cats to impromptu atrocity videographer.That's 2012, then, and several of the years that will follow. Let's get busy.
How do you discover new books? Matteo Berlucchi is tired of buying books from a certain online retailer only to be recommended very similar reads. He tells us why hisaNobii.comis different.Charles Arthursits in the presenter hotseat for this week's programme. He's joined byJosh HallidayandMichael Brunton-Spallto discuss the week's developments, including what Rupert Murdoch's supposed Twitter feed tells us about the verification process and why those network crashes on New Year's Eve look to be a thing of the past.Plus,Aleks Krotoskitalks to Chad Dickerson from vintage retailerEtsyabout its rise and rise, and how to scale up a business without losing your customer focus.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
More than 1.2bn apps were downloaded for iOS and Android devices alone between Christmas Day and New Year's Day, according to mobile analytics firm Flurry.The company says this is up 60% on the 750m weekly average during the rest of December. In itsblog post, Flurry says 42% of holiday-week downloads were generated in the US: 509m. That's some way ahead of second-placed China (99m) with the UK in third (81m).Flurry also estimates that 20m new iOS and Android devices were activated in the last week of December, including 6.8m on Christmas Day alone.Where are these numbers coming from, and are they credible? Flurry says that its analytics tools are used in more than 140,000 apps. The company claims that it can detect "over 90% oof all new devices activated each day", while its tools are in more than 20% of apps downloaded every day, forming the base for its overall download estimates.Another analytics company, Distimo,published its own researchon 27 December, claiming that in the US specifically, Christmas Day downloads on Apple's App Store were up 230% on December's daily average.Flurry hadmore research to publishjust before Christmas, with figures on the global addressable market for app developers on iOS and Android. That means the number of people with Apple and Google-powered smartphones and tablets who are running apps.Flurry claims that as of 20 December 2011, there were 264m active units in the market across iOS and Android. The US accounted for 41% of those – 109m – followed by China (35m), the UK (17m), South Korea (16m) and Japan, France and Germany (all 10m)."Our count of 264 million active units in the market is about half of what Apple and Google publicly state have been activated," blogged Flurry. "The difference is primarily due to old device replacement.  Flurry is counting recently used devices versus life-to-date device activations."Bear in mind that this is just two platforms, albeit the two largest in terms of app usage. In its latest financial results, Research In Motion said it now has almost 75m BlackBerry subscribers, although it is unclear how many of them are actively using apps (or, specifically, actively using apps that aren't email and/or BBM).Windows Phone remains an enigma in terms of active users, and while Symbian is huge in terms of handsets in use, again, data on how many of those people are actively downloading apps is thin on the ground.Flurry's research clearly reflects the company's own emphasis on iOS and Android, then. Even so, for the many developers currently targeting those two platforms, an addressable base of 264m people is one of the firmest figures to aim at yet.The question in 2012 – as in 2011 – is how to rise above the crowd to find an audience within that for your apps.
7digital+Digital music store 7digital's app has been popular on BlackBerry and Android, but after languishing in Apple's approval process for a while, it's now available for iPhone too. The app enables 7digital customers to wirelessly sync MP3s bought from the store to their iPhone for offline listening, making it a bona-fide iTunes rival on the device.iPhoneBand BossManaging bands? There's an iPhone game for that, developed here in the UK. Band Boss has you managing a pixelly artist or group with tours, albums and singles. It has plenty of charm, including real artists to manage (virtually).iPhoneMetroFree newspaper Metro extends onto Windows Phone with this new app from Associated Newspapers, joining the versions already available on rival platforms.Windows PhoneDesksplorers KnightsThe latest app in the educational game series for 6-9 year-olds, this focuses on the Middle Ages with animation, games and storytelling.iPhone / iPadPsonarCloud music service Psonar wants to do for streaming music what pay-as-you-go did for mobile telephony: open it up to a cash-strapped teenage audience. Users pay 1p for every song that they play through a system of virtual credits.iPhoneSkitch for iPadEvernote's Skitch app gets upsized for iPad, enabling people to annotate photos, screenshots, maps and other images on their tablet.iPadWhen Saturday ComesIndependent football magazine When Saturday Comes has joined the App Store Newsstand, with an iOS app selling monthly and annual subscriptions to a digitised version.iPhone / iPadFlick Golf ExtremeThe Extreme version of Full Fat's Flick Golf game was a hit on iOS, but has quickly been ported to Android too. Flick golf balls through a variety of unusual courses, from icebergs to fighter jets.AndroidSpider JackChillingo's Spider Jack has been a casual hit on other platforms, but now it's spun onto Windows Phone. The gameplay, as ever, focuses on a spider catching flies.Windows PhoneSpy MouseAnother iOS hit making its way to Android is Spy Mouse, which is the work of Real Racing / Flight Control developer Firemint. Avoid cats and steal cheese in this line-drawing puzzler.AndroidMass Effect Volume 1: RedemptionDark Horse Comics has released a new digital comic based on the Mass Effect console games, telling a story that sits between the two games, filling in the plot.iPhone / iPadGymPactGymPact wants to help people get fit in 2012 by providing financial incentives: if they don't check-in at their gym when they said they would, they pay – while good users get rewarded. There's a fish'n'chip shop next to my gym, I'm not sure how it would tell the difference... Dollar signs indicate a US focus.iPhoneNational Geographic Traveler MagazineNational Geographic has taken its travelling magazine to iPad, with annual and monthly subscriptions as well as one-off issue sales.iPadParamount100Movie studio Paramount Pictures is celebrating its 100th anniversary with a free iPad app. Photos, film clips and music scores are all included.iPadN.O.V.A. for BBMHere's an intriguing combination: Gameloft's first-person shooter N.O.V.A. meets RIM's BBM messaging service. We assume the idea will be to help people deathmatch against their chat-contacts.BlackBerryMike V: Skateboard Party HDBilling itself as "The only 3D skateboarding game available on the Android Platform", this aims to go where Tony Hawk grinded and ollied before, based on skateboarder Mike Vallely.AndroidFluff Friends RescueMobile/social games company SGN has a new iOS game based on its Fluff Friends franchise, aiming at younger gamers with its pet-rescuing action. Yes, parents, in-app purchases are included.iPhone / iPadTrudie Styler's Warrior YogaNot just Yoga workouts. There are songs from Sting too. And it's filmed at the couple's Tuscan villa.iPhone / iPadInclusive LondonThe Inclusive London app helps people with accessibility needs find hotels, restaurants, pubs, shops and other locations. Criteria include wheelchair friendliness, baby changing facilities and hearing loops.iPhoneOWN Second ScreenThis app is understandably US-focused: it provides "exclusive content" on the iPad while people are watching the Oprah Winfrey Network TV channel. It uses the Media-Sync platform developed by Nielsen and Gracenote, which has previously been used for second-screen apps by ABC.iPadDriving Eco2This is intriguing, from car-maker Renault. It's described as "a widget in order to help Renault cars drivers to minimize the fuel consumption of their cars". It requires specific hardware plugged into the vehicle, though, to transmit data from the engine to the iPhone.iPhoneElectric Sheep Infinite Evolving ArtworkSoftware artist Scott Draves is behind this iPad app, which is a "collaborative abstract artwork". The listing explains: "You can vote to determine which sheep, or designs live, die, and perpetuate their genes as you participate in their world-wide Darwinian evolution. This app navigates this nonlinear video space."iPad
Not new iPads, nor an Apple TV, but Apple is planning an "important but not large-scale" event in New York at the end of January with a media-related announcement, according to AllThingsD, citing "sources close to the situation".The lowered expectations ahead of the event, whichthe site says will include Apple's head of internet software and services Eddy Cue, suggest that it will relate to publishing or media content.The suggested location – on the US east coast, traditionally the stronghold in America of publishing media empires and of its advertising businesses – also implies that it will relate to printed media, and so books or magazines, or advertising.Apple hardware launches made in the US have all occurred in west coast locations for at least the past five years, and there is no suggestion that the upcoming announcement will break that pattern.Cuelooks after Apple content interests such as the iBooks store, App Store, and iTunes store. He is also in charge of Apple's personal cloud data service iCloud, launched in October 2011, and iAds, Apple's mobile advertising offering.iAds has been struggling in the past year, according to industry insiders who say that it doesn't offer enough flexibility to be useful. The choice of location, in the same city as the iconic Madison Avenue that is the spiritual home of US advertising, could suggest a fresh approach to iAds. The former head of the mobile advertising unit Andy Miller left in summer 2011 and is not thought to have been replaced yet.A year ago Cue appeared at an event for thelaunch of News Corporation's The Daily, a daily newspaper for the iPad.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSiri clones land in Android Market with official Apple icons and deceptive marketing &gt;&gt; 9to5Mac"Another app, calledSiri for Android, aspicked up by The Next Web, made a point of clarifying it is simply a Siri icon that acts as a shortcut to Google's Voice Actions. Although, like Speerit, it too boldly uses what appears to be Apple's official Siri icon. "Also, the app's name, "Siri for Android," beside the developer's name, "Official App," could give users who don't know any better the impression it is some type of official Siri port. The app is also available for free in the Android Market. No word on whether Google or Apple plans to take action." Why would Android users want Siri knockoffs?Bank security: Thieves down the line &gt;&gt; FT.comJoseph Menn: "As a small parts supplier for the troubled US automotive industry, the Michigan-based Experi-Metal was constantly seeking ways to cut costs and improve efficiency. Online banking was no exception: the manufacturer signed up for that service in 2000 at the behest of Comerica, its bank. "Experi-Metal regularly received emails from the Dallas-based bank with instructions. So controller Keith Maslowski was not surprised in early 2009 when one arrived that directed him to fill out a "Comerica business connect customer form". He typed in his user name, password and pin number from a token at 7.35am on January 22, three weeks into his employer's 50th anniversary year. Less than seven hours later, Experi-Metal's coffers were empty." The bank, however, had no legal obligation to recover the funds. Companies have to bear about half the losses of cybercrime attacks, according to a new report.H.P.'s TouchPad, some say, was built on flawed software &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"After some internal debate, the company chose to have WebOS rely on WebKit, an open-source software engine used by browsers to display Web pages. [Paul] Mercer [former senior software director at Palm] said that this was a mistake because it prevented applications from running fast enough to be on par with the iPhone. But a former member of the WebOS app development team said the core issue with WebOS was actually Palm's inability to turn it into a platform that could capture the enthusiasm and loyalty of outside programmers. There were neither the right leaders nor the right engineers to do the job, said this person, who declined to be named because he still had some ties to H.P. "From concept to creation, WebOS was developed in about nine months, this person said, and the company took some shortcuts." Jon Rubenstein, who then headed Palm, also gets blamed for having hardware expertise, but not enough to oversee a new OS development. Mathias Duarte, who was key to webOS, left for Google - where he was oversaw Android Honeycomb and Ice Cream Sandwich. Fascinating read. Still, open source will get out the cooties, right?BBC News - Profile: Michael Acton Smith, the Moshi Monsters mogul"Moshi Monsters is a virtual pet and social networking game which has captured the minds - and pocket money - of children around the world. BBC technology correspondent Rory Cellan-Jones profiles the company's founder, Michael Acton Smith." A good profile. Britain turns out to be quite good at big networks like this - don't forget that we did Friends Reunited and Bebo first too.'This item is not eligible for iCloud' - Apple &gt;&gt; Stack ExchangeIf you find something hasn't been uploaded to iCloud, howcome? Usually, that it has too low a bitrate. (Incidental note: lots of pirated stuff is low bitrate.)Movie crowds dip to 16-year low as apathy lingers &gt;&gt; Salon.com"Through New Year's Eve on Saturday, projected domestic revenues for the year stand at $10.2bn, down 3.5% from 2010?s, according to box-office tracker Hollywood.com. Taking higher ticket prices into account, movie attendance is off even more, with an estimated 1.28bn tickets sold, a 4.4% decline and the smallest movie audience since 1995, when admissions totaled 1.26bn."This item was not added to iCloud...:&gt;&gt; Apple Support CommunitiesBeen playing with iCloud? Had the message "This item was not added to iCloud because an error occurred"? This tells you how to remedy it (though not why it occurred).Android isn't about building a mobile platform &gt;&gt; TightWind"Why would Google be so willing to empower network providers by giving them so much control over Android? Because it means wider adoption of Android, and as more Android-based devices flood the market, the hardware manufacturers themselves are increasingly irrelevant. As Android spreads, and the differences between different devices decrease as a result, there will be less competitive differentiation between manufacturers--consumers will, like they do in the PC market, shop based more on price than on who makes the device. At that point, hardware will be commoditized, and building a mobile device business based on a different OS than Android will be incredibly difficult. Profit potential will shift from selling actual devices (where margins will be small) to providing services for those devices--quite convenient for Google, who's in the business of making web services and providing advertising." Very insightful. (From January 2011, but just as true - if not more so - now.)Top 10 Most Pirated Movies of 2011 &gt;&gt; TorrentFreak"As 2011 comes to an end, we follow up our most pirated TV-shows chart by taking a look at the most pirated movies of the year. Fast Five comes out on top, and aside from other usual suspects such as box office hits Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2 and The Hangover, the list also includes a few surprising entries and some notable absentees." Well, if you assume that the people doing the downloading are in their mid- to late-teens, then the list makes complete sense. The "surprising absentees" are Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides and Transformers Dark of the Moon. The surprising thing is that anyone ever went to see either, surely.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard
And we're back! How did Gamesblog readers see in the new year? What video game wonders will 2012 bring? The answers to these questions and many others we couldn't – and often wouldn't want to – think about probably lie within...
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamChina Makes Almost Nothing Out of Apple's iPads and iPhones - ForbesTom Worstall: "My favorite fact of this past year was the proof that China makes almost nothing out of assembling Apple's iPads and iPhones. It's a favorite because it speaks so directly to one of the great political arguments going on in both the US and the UK. I refer, of course, to this very strange idea that both countries would get (even) richer if only they would do more manufacturing."Then again, is it "manufacturing" or "assembly" that China does?Why (and how) we've switched away from Google Maps &gt;&gt; Nestoria BlogFour reasons - including the fact that Google is now charging large users of Maps, but that included a screwup by its sales staff, who didn't know anything about the site. Not a good way to win a sale.They've switched to OpenStreetMap - so congratulations to Steve Coast.Why is Sergey Brin so good at Angry Birds? &gt;&gt; kottke.org"I spent perhaps too much time this morning pondering one of the mysteries of the internet: Sergey Brin's astronomically high scores on the Google+ version of Angry Birds. For instance, Brin's high score on the easiest level of the game is 36240. It's a legit score (here's a higher one) and he has impressive scores on several other levels. But in 15 minutes of playing this morning, I couldn't get within a thousand points of his score."Software bug fingered as cause of Aussie A330 plunge &gt;&gt; The Register"The final report into the 2008 Qantas flight QF72, which unexpectedly dived twice during a routine flight, has blamed a combination of software and hardware errors for the incident."On 7 October 2008, the Australian-owned A330-303 aircraft was cruising at 37,000 feet when the autopilot disengaged and the aircraft rose, before plunging downwards sharply, injuring 110 of the aircraft's 303 passengers and three-quarters of the cabin crew. Three minutes later the aircraft did it again, and the flight crew was bombarded with warnings from the instrumentation – almost all of them false."More tales from the cockpit.Actually, searches for "Google+" are petering out &gt;&gt; TechCrunchThe point about searches for it is that many people do a search to find a site - even if you would imagine that they would type in the URL directly. If fewer people search for something, that often means that they're not going there as much. (Seriously: Google processes a colossal number of searches for "Facebook" and "Twitter".)One potentially confounding effect: the introduction of apps on smartphones might mean fewer people need to do a search on those to get to them.Google, Where The Best Of Everything Is Perpetually 6 Months Away &gt;&gt; parislemon"For those keeping score at home, that's now three major things Schmidt has promised in the next 6 months."At LeWeb a couple weeks ago, he promised that third-party developers would start writing the best apps for Android first instead of iOS in 6 months. Later at the same conference, he said that "the majority" all televisions in stores in 6 months would run Google TV. Now Google's "iPad killer" is coming in 6 months."It's either going to be an extremely busy June for Google — or an extremely busy June for Google's PR department when Google fulfills none of Schmidt's promises."What if it fulfils one or two?Create GIF animations online &gt;&gt; PicasionFun.The 20 Unhappiest People You Meet In The Comments Sections Of Year-End Lists &gt;&gt; NPRSee anyone you recognise?Goldfinger &gt;&gt; parislemonMG Siegler, whose profile picture on Google+ in which he was extending his middle finger (offensive? Maybe in the US) was deleted, points out that Michael Arrington's default picture if you search for images of him show Arrington… extending his middle finger."So the rules seems to be that if you want a middle finger picture to be the image associated with you, too bad. Or if you don't want a middle finger picture to be associated with you, too bad. Heads, Google wins. Tails, Google wins."We're seeing some of the problems with Google's expansion to do everything on the web. Some of their policies in certain places seem to directly contradict their policies elsewhere. And there's no easy solution. As a result, these types of debates will continue."This has spiralled from being trivial to being very important.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest links, tag articles on Pinboard.in with "guardiantech"
Alvaro Cassinelli is an assistant professor at the Ishikawa-Oku lab at the University of Tokyo. He and his partner, Alexis Zerroug, have created a multi-modal, spatial augmented reality, a system that instantaneously changes household objects into communication devices. The effect, known as "invoked computing", is a process that has enabled Cassinelli to transform a discarded pizza box into a laptop computer and a banana into a telephone. The idea won the grand prize atLaval Virtual, an international conference and exhibition on virtual reality and converging technologies.How did you come up with the idea of "invoked computing"?The project started with a self-imposed challenge which had both ecological and geeky motivations. The question was: could we revive an old laptop computer thrown in the garbage, not by repairing its internal components but by using augmented reality (our speciality), thus transforming this inert, rain-soaked object into something functional again – something that looked "alive" for any casual observer from the outside?Soon, we realised that, were we to succeed, something very interesting would be happening: although the computer would be "dead", it would perform fine thanks to the intervention of external, invisible powers. Life would be instilled from the outside; the corpse of the computer would be "possessed", animated like a puppet by a ubiquitous "ambient intelligence". And nobody would notice the difference. When looking for a name, I first thought about "poltergeist computing" or "zombie computing", but the connotations were all too negative. We settled on invoked computing which seemed more appropriate: it makes you think about spiritual invocation (of invisible, higher powers) as well as of the software engineering technical expression: "invoking an application" meaning "to launch it".Why the banana and the pizza box?In the invoked computing scenario, the object itself works as an "invocation" trigger and supports interactivity. We naturally looked for trigger-objects that are more or less pervasive in the real world, hence food-related items (the banana and pizza box). As triggers, they operate in ways similar to icons in a computer operating system: these are not the applications themselves, but keys to open them, to invoke them. On the other hand, real physical objects become the support for the interaction, provide surfaces on which to project images or sound.So, in effect, you're turning everyday objects into touchscreens?Not exactly. The invoked computing project proposes systems to project "function" on real objects, but without making the interactive space resemble a screen with icons. Indeed, we are not trying to project icons or conventional representations of computer applications into the real world that when touched will launch a particular computing routine. Instead, affordances in the physical world itself should suggest and trigger function – even new, improvised functions.So gestures bring the objects to life?An evocative gesture can be very informative of the intentions of its performer. I've been living in Japan for 11 years now and I know first hand that this form of non-verbal communication was (and still is) the most reliable device I have when I want to avoid ambiguity in everyday situationsIn the case of the banana phone, a real handset is not really required, only something that suggests the action of calling on a phone. That "something" can be a combination of a referential object, reinforced by an unequivocal, perhaps exaggerated theatrical gesture.Is this something that could be made commercially available?Clearly, this could be used in controlled situations. If you're in a bar and you want to read the menu, you could open your napkin and the menu could be projected there. It's totally feasible. There's also the idea that instead of a device dying and you having to buy a replacement, what if the obsolete one started working to make an augmented environment? Perhaps to the point where maybe you wouldn't need to buy a new computer again. I'm not saying we shouldn't continue evolving more powerful computer systems, but they could have a longer life.Is the idea that having the newest thing is the best thing a false one?Exactly. Maybe writing on a typewriter is more efficient than using an iPad. Invoked Computing gives you the opportunity to use what you know best and continue to use it, even if it doesn't work any more. It's like having an old car you like very much; you don't want to throw it away but there are no spare parts to repair it. Never mind – let's just make it work from the outside. It's using these very powerful resources to make things live again.It's more than just personalising your desktop, it's like personalising your physical world. You don't need to be influenced by designers at other companies: you decide and the function will come to you. People like to follow trends. If this technology were to work very well, it would be a problem. Instead of an iPhone, you would just have cardboard or a deck of cards, so it would change the way people relate to objects. We'll see what happens.
Now's the time of year when columnists are expected to peer into crystal balls. Not being able to find such a device in his local Apple shop, all this columnist can do is to speculate on the implications of some developments that are already highly visible.Online shopping, for example. A glance down any high street confirms that Amazon &amp; Co is beginning to make inroads into the urban landscape. The costs of running a bricks and mortar shop – in rent, rates, inventory, theft and wages – together with the wafer-thin margins of most retailers (excluding Apple and other purveyors of luxury goods) meant that it was a knife-edge business at the best of times. But the combination of recession and intensified competition from online is proving too much for some retailers, which is why high streets are beginning to have a gap-toothed look.And that poses some intriguing questions. Venturing into town on 27 December to meet someone for coffee, I was stunned to find the city centre heaving with people. Which led to the thought that, for many people, physical shopping is clearly an important social activity – what comedians call "retail therapy". But if that's the case, what happens if shopping moves increasingly online? Will the "social" element of physical shopping trump the convenience and economy of online? Or will the economics of online retailing relentlessly crush those of its high street counterpart?If anyone doubts the aggressiveness of Amazon &amp; Co, then they haven't been paying attention. There's been a big fuss in the US, for example, about an Amazon smartphone app that enables visitors into physical shops to scan barcodes on merchandise to determine how much more cheaply the same thing can be bought online. In a special promotion before Christmas, Amazon was offering a 5% credit on purchases triggered by the app (up to $5 per item and up to three items). "Everyone shops at Amazon," said the cartoon that went withRichard Russo'sNew York Timesarticle(nytimes.com) attacking the promotion. "Your friend loses his job." Ouch!Cunningly, books were specifically excluded from this offer, but you can see where this is heading. Actually, you can already see it in action in any high street electrical or photographic dealer. It goes like this: customer comes in and asks to see, say, an expensive camera. Salesperson then spends 15 minutes patiently explaining the camera's features in great detail, after which one of two things happens: either customer says he can get it for £X online, where X is significantly less than the shop price, and departs; or customer simply departs and orders it online. This has become so annoying that some US photographic stores now charge an "explanation fee" to such unscrupulous customers.There are two ways of looking at this. One is to say thatcompetition is always good and more competition is even better. If Jessops, say, can't match, say, the Amazon price, then so much the worse for Jessops and so much the better for us.The other viewsays that there is more to life – and society – than the near-perfect, frictionless competition that is enabled by the net: jobs for people in their own locality, for example; and the urban vibrancy and sociability that come from having busy shops in proximity to cafes, restaurants etc.One of the strangest things about Amazon is that people still don't seem to have woken up to the scale of its founder's ambition. When Jeff Bezos started the company in 1995, he focused initially on books because – unlike, say, clothing – books were things that people would buy without needing to handle the merchandise. But his target wasn't the big bookshops of the day such as Borders or Barnes &amp; Noble. Bezos was thinking much bigger: he saw Amazon.com as the Walmart of cyberspace – a store that sold everything and catered for customers from cradle to grave. The retailing statistics for this festive season will confirm how quickly he's getting there.Actually, one doesn't have to wait for the statistics. Driving round in the run-up to Christmas I was continually struck by the number of vans there were on suburban roads: they included the vehicles of Parcelforce, UPS, City Link and other big-name delivery services, but also countless white vans with harassed-looking drivers peering at house numbers. Which made one wonder about the environmental implications of the move to online shopping. Is the carbon footprint of all those cloud servers, warehouses and delivery vans bigger than that of conventional shopping? Or smaller? The answer is that nobody knows – yet. But one day we will need to find out. Happy New Year!
£13,04588.3mpgTop speed 106mphLast week a little girl saved my life. By&nbsp;waking up and stumbling downstairs as we were leaving a&nbsp;friend's house, 10-year-old Kitty delayed our leaving by a crucial 60 seconds – a minute that we'll be repaying her for decades. We said our goodnights and as we headed out into the frigid night, the hush was shattered by what sounded like an empty skip being tossed down the road by a&nbsp;rampaging elephant. The awful scraping, graunching, grinding, banging racket finally came to an end. We stood in the porch, frozen. Then, as the spell broke, we ran out on to the pavement. In front of us, steaming and hissing in the cold, was a wrecked people carrier rocking on its side, a trail of destruction in its wake, as if a small tornado had passed through. The driver, trapped inside like a drunken goldfish, was trying to open the sunroof, thinking it was the door. He was so drunk that much later, when the fire brigade chopped him out, the police had to carry him to the squad car.Taking in the carnage I didn't at first recognise the car we'd driven to the party in – a&nbsp;perky little Kia Rio. But yes, there it was, shoved 10ft down the road and on to the kerb, its pretty face crumpled like a&nbsp;prize-winning pug's. The doors had burst open and the front wheels had folded sideways as if curtseying. I&nbsp;looked through the broken glass at the seats where we'd have been sitting. Then I walked to where the drunk was flapping his arms uselessly in the bubble of his trashed car and (this surprised me, I&nbsp;have to say) smashed my fists on the sunroof and screamed through the glass at his face: "Why are you driving when you are this pissed?" Bystanders gazed at me in the yellowy light. The drunk stared at me uncomprehendingly, his guppy mouth opening and shutting.Though it was Kitty who saved us, I think the sturdy little Kia would have made a decent fist of trying to  if she hadn't.The headline this fourth-generation Kia has been making is that with its 1.1-litre three-cylinder turbodiesel, it is the most efficient non-electric car in the world, including hybrids and eco specials. Sporting the full gamut of Kia's EcoDynamic fuel-saving technologies, it will do an eyepopping 88.3 miles to the gallon while producing a barely detectable 85g of CO2per km. Laudable though that is, it's the robust safety features of the Rio that have attracted my attention.To help avoid a crash, all Rio's are fitted with electronic stability control and emergency brake assistance, which ensures maximum stopping power is guaranteed even if you don't apply full force to the brake. Once a crash becomes unavoidable, you can put your faith in twin front, side and curtain airbags, seatbelt pre-tensioners and load limiters for the front occupants, as well as crumple zones fore and aft to absorb and dissipate the force of a crash. Finally, when all else fails, there's a body shell as rigid and unyielding as the Pontypool front row.I'd like to have spent longer getting to know the Rio and its frugal engine – its life was cut short with just 730 miles on the clock – but what I saw of it I liked very much.And Kitty, thanks for waking up.
A burst of 9 links - the last of the year! - for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTough negotiator: HP wanted $1.2B for webOS and Palm's assets (exclusive) | VentureBeat"$1.2bn. That's how much HP paid for Palm last year, and it's also how much the company was trying to sell its Palm assets for over the latter half of 2011, VentureBeat has learned."As baffling as it may seem, HP was trying to rid itself of Palm without taking a loss on its purchase, a source with knowledge of the negotiations told us. When asked for confirmation about the pricing, an HP representative declined to comment."Facebook laughed them out of the room.Why are atoms mostly empty space? &gt;&gt; Discover MagazineIf you understand (or accept) that an electron is also a wave, then this is a brilliant exposition of why electrons have specific orbits "around" the electron. It's not technology per se, but it has enabled the transistor, the laser, solar power…Kindle Fire remains Amazon's best-selling item, million Kindle per week sales continue | The Verge"Amazon just announced that it sold more than a million Kindle devices per week throughout December — that includes the Kindle, Kindle Touch, and Kindle Fire tablet."Here's a suggestion: if Amazon had sold more than 5m Kindles, it would have said so, because that's such a solid, impressive number, and would imply that it had sold more than 1.25m per week. (Six million would have been 1.5m per week - even more noteworthy.)So our suggestion is that it sold between 4m and 5m Kindles (of all flavours) in the period.A look ahead: 2012 is Microsoft's turning point &gt;&gt; Ars Technica"2011 was in many ways a quiet (albeit thoroughly profitable) year for Microsoft. The company made big, important announcements—the Nokia partnership, the Windows 8 reveal – but neither had much impact in 2011. Nokia has released only a couple of handset models in a few countries this year, and Windows 8 is not yet in beta. 2011 for Microsoft was all about telling us what to look forward to. 2012 will be when that talk becomes real. 2012 will be when lots of Microsoft's talk becomes real."The 'trouble' with Android | Stephanie RiegerAndroid can produce a huge range of screen "sizes" for phones demanding a web view, according to one site's mobile results: "This client of ours isn't unusual. They are UK based and their audience reflects a wide cross-section of consumers. If anything, the audience probably skews a bit older (and therefore if you believe the stereotypes) less likely to be experimental with new technologies. So why the incredibly wide range in Android screen sizes?"What we in fact are seeing is a classic case of unintended consequences. In this case, the consequences of a wide ecosystem coupled with some of Android's more user-friendly design decisions."Turning off Google search results indirection &gt;&gt; StackExchange"I don't really care that Google is tracking what I click, and I don't really care about the extra indirection when I click on a result (though both are concerns). But I find it annoying that I can't copy-paste a result by simply right-clicking on a link and choosing "copy link address""The solution turns out to be quite simple.December 2011: Google to release new tablet 'in the next six months' &gt;&gt; VatorNewsDecember 2011: "The tablet wars are getting exciting. First Amazon released an iPad killer, called Kindle Fire. Now Google is coming up with its own."Google will 'market a new tablet of the highest quality in the next six months,' according to Eric Schmidt, Executive Chairman of Google, in an offhand comment a week ago during an interview with an Italian newspaper, Il Corriere della Sela."Got that? OK. Now…From April 2010: Google in unique position to deliver "iPad Killer" &gt;&gt; PCWorldFrom the balmy days of April 2010: "Google is one of a handful of companies capable of delivering a device that can compete with the innovation and user experience of the iPad, while possibly delivering more business functionality akin to what we expect from the HP Slate."The New York Times reported on April 12 that 'Eric E. Schmidt, chief executive of Google, told friends at a recent party in Los Angeles about the new device, which would exclusively run the Android operating system.'"This tidbit was accompanied by anonymous sources claiming 'the company had been experimenting in "stealth mode" with a few publishers to explore delivery of books, magazines and other content on a tablet.'"Nearly two years later, Schmidt is back saying the exact same thing.Apple fined by Italy over misleading product guarantees &gt;&gt; BBC News"An Italian watchdog has fined Apple 900,000 euros ($1.2m, £750,000) for its handling of customer guarantees."The country's Antitrust Authority said Apple had failed to inform shoppers of their legal right to two years' technical support, recognising instead only a one-year standard warranty."The fine equates to 17 minutes of Apple's expected worldwide revenue for the current quarter. That'll definitely teach them not to do it again. (via @YiannisintheMani)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest links, tag articles on Pinboard.in with "guardiantech"
The Toyota Yaris began life in 1997 asa concept vehicle called the Funtime. In Britain, however, its image has ended up being rather more Teatime: the average age of a Yaris buyer is apparently 60. Nothing wrong with that, of course, although with their latest version Toyota are clearly keen to expand the car's constituency to a younger market.They've come up with a new motto, "Outsmart life", which is clearly intended to evoke speed and youthful zip, but alas, could just as easily be the slogan ofDignitas. They've also redesigned the exterior and interior: the former to look more angular, the latter – on the one I drove – involving some authentically horrid red-and-black upholstery, a&nbsp;reminder that some sections of the motoring industry are places where an early-80s teenage boy's idea of sophistication still holds sway.Having once been a mid-80s teenage boy myself, I took it to Portsmouth to interviewAdam Ant. It coped really well, both with the motorway and the erratic driving of&nbsp;a 40-year-old man rendered hysterical with anticipation at meeting his childhood idol, who furthermore kept forgetting to change up into fifth gear because he was too busy hammering the steering wheel in time toKings Of The Wild Frontierand squealing in excitement. If the acceleration was a bit too ponderous for its own good – and indeed for the sportiness of the exterior – the Yaris felt rather more fun than you might expect from a car that appeals largely to 60-year-olds, although it's perhaps worth noting that I was in such a&nbsp;state of eagerness viz-a-viz my forthcoming meeting that I would probably have had fun pedalling to Portsmouth on a tricycle.When I got home, I started wondering about the Yaris's appeal to the older buyer. The reasonable price aside, perhaps it attracts sixtysomethings because they don't have to transport young children around in it. The front feels roomy, not least because of its head-height, but fitting the kids' car seats in the back was a task so daunting I felt I&nbsp;deserved a standing ovation for managing it: in fairness, I had a three-door model. The marketing guys with an eye on the youth crowd might be pleased to know that, once installed, Esme, aged five, loved it, although that might have something to do with the fact that, unlike the people carrier she's normally transported around in, the interior didn't smell revolting, the apparently deathless legacy of 2010's legendary Clacket Lane Services Car Sickness Atrocity. I&nbsp;suspect the young buyers Toyota are after have slightly higher expectations from a new car than simply not smelling of stale vomit: whether the Yaris matches them is a moot point.Toyota YarisTop speed109mphAcceleration0-62 in 11.7 secondsAverage consumption51.4mpgCO2 emissions127g/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating5/10
My name is Delly Mawazo Sesete. I am originally from the North Kivu povince in the eastern region of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, where a deadly conflict has been raging for over 15 years. While that conflict began as a war over ethnic tension, land rights and politics, it has increasingly turned to being a war of profit, with various armed groups fighting one another for control of strategic mineral reserves.Near the area where I grew up, there are mines with vast amounts of tungsten, tantalum, tin, and gold – minerals that make most consumer electronics in the world function.These minerals are part ofyourdaily life. They keep your computer running so you can surf the internet. They save your high score on your Playstation. They make your cell phone vibrate when someone calls you.While minerals from the Congo have enriched your life, they have often brought violence, rape and instability to my home country. That's because those armed groups fighting for control of these mineral resources use murder, extortion and mass rape as a deliberate strategy to intimidate and control local populations, which helps them secure control of mines, trading routes and other strategic areas.Living in the Congo, I saw many of these atrocities firsthand. I documented the child slaves who are forced to work in the mines in dangerous conditions. I witnessed the deadly chemicals dumped into the local environment. I saw the use of rape as a weapon. And despite receiving multiple death threats for my work, I've continued to call for peace, development and dignity in Congo's minerals trade.But the good news is that your favorite electronics don't have to fund mass violence and rape in the Congo, and neither do mine.That's why I'm asking Apple to make an iPhone made with conflict-free minerals from the Congo by this time next year. Apple has been an industry leader in both supply chain management and making corporate social responsibility a priority. In the past two years, Apple has taken great strides to source minerals responsibly and control their supply chain.Apple is perfectly positioned to be the first company to create a Congo conflict-free phone, using minerals from Congo that further stability and economic development and don't use slave labor or fund mass atrocities.I believe that other Apple customers want what I want: the world's first conflict-free iPhone. That's why I launched acampaign on Change.orgasking Apple's CEO, Tim Cook, to commit to making an iPhone with conflict-free minerals from the Congo by Christmas 2013. In the five weeks since I launchedmy campaign, nearly 50,000 people from more than 75 countries have signed on in support.Apple, if you're reading this, please give my family and my people a chance for a better future by being a leader for a clean minerals trade in eastern Congo. Commit to purchasing minerals from my country, but do so in a way that benefits communities, not destroys them.You've always shown you know how to think differently. Now it's time to think conflict-free.
Concerns have been raised that Google+ could become "a cesspool that no one wants to visit ... sorta like Myspace" – by none other than the founder of Myspace.Tom Anderson, who co-founded Myspace in 2003, issued the warning during a wide-ranging debate about censorship on Google's various platforms, a debate started after TechCrunch columnist MG Siegler had his profile picture removed by Google."Earlier today I noticed something funny,"Siegler lamented on his blog. "My Google profile picture – the picture associated with my Gmail account, my GChat account, my Google+ account, etc – had vanished. A bug? Nope."So what was behind this Kafkaesque cleansing?"It turns out, Google – without telling me – went into my account and deleted my profile picture. Why? Because I am giving the middle finger in it."The picture in question shows Siegler casually raising his middle digit to the camera as he glances away from the lens. Drawing on the defiance the picture exudes, Siegler boldly attempted to re-upload the picture to Google+. Again it was deleted, prompting Siegler to turn to his blog to rail against Google's policing.My problem isn't so much with the fact that I couldn't have a profile picture of myself giving everyone the finger – which I can and do on Twitter and elsewhere – it's that no one bothered to tell me or warn me before they just went into my account and deleted the picture. What if this was the only place I had stored the picture?"This also seems like a slippery slope," Siegler continued. "In certain cultures, various hand gestures mean different things. Is Google also going to delete my profile picture if I have my fingers up to my chin, for example?"Siegler's post was widely read and shared, prompting Tom Anderson – aka "Myspace Tom", the first real (socially networked) friend millions of Myspace users ever had –to post his response on Google+. Anderson defended the censorship. "All Google+ has done here is execute on its stated plan: removing offensive photos," he wrote, adding that Facebook, Twitter and Myspace had similar policies.Anderson suggested that the reason the photo had been removed from Google+ and not other mediums was not that the site "has decided to do things differently, it's just that they're ahead of the game and doing things better".In any case, I would respectfully submit that we, the users of Google+ (and Facebook or Twitter) don't need to see you flipping us off, nor do we need to see you naked, or displaying something else generally considered offensive. When a social network [lets] that stuff slide, it turns into a cesspool that no one wants to visit... sorta like Myspace was.It's not the first time Anderson has criticised his creation on a rival site. In Septemberhe posted to his Facebook page:"Why am I not on Myspace? Because, I left the company in early 2009, and like most of you, I don't like using it anymore ... not a fan of what the new folks have done with Myspace."Anderson's suggestion that Google+ was right to remove Siegler's photo provoked much chin-stroking among thread commenters and media pundits alike."Who's to say what's offensive?,"posited journalist and long-time Google watcher Jeff Jarvis."If anyone and everyone can, we end up with the lowest common denominator of speech and the highest watermark of regulation and restriction."Jarvis pointed out that Google does not delete links "to content some people think is offensive on search and we would not want it to".Google does not want – and we should not want – it to be in the position of the world's censor. When governments – from Iran to India now – demand that Google take down links to allegedly offensive content, I among many protest.So should Google censor societies? Why is Google+ different from search? It is a platform that people use to communicate as they use the web and Google provides the means for people and what they say to be found.Tech columnist Mike Elgan was also in favour of Siegler's finger, pointing out that: "Different things offend different people."The best way is user choice. If I'm offended by MG Siegler's profile pic, I can block him in one second. In other words, Google+ has already given us the tools to censor according to OUR values.In still other words, this problem has already been solved. And now they're creating a new one unnecessarily.It remains to be seen whether Siegler's finger will return to his Google+ profile. For the moment,he has come up with a novel alternative.
When Kevin Hayes's treasured camera was stolen while he was on a business trip in Canberra in March 2009, he didn't hold out much hope of getting it back. The theft was galling both because the camera was a birthday present from his wife four weeks before – and that its A$5,200 (£3,400) value wasn't insured.More than two years later, after Hayes happened to mention his loss on a web forum, someone suggested he take a look at a website calledStolenCameraFinder.com. The site was set up in 2009 by Matt Burns, a 30-year-old software engineer from Bristol, after two of his own cameras were stolen in a burglary at his home.The principle behind the site is simple enough: every digital camera picture includes certain codes that associate it with the camera that took it. They can be erased, but it's difficult, and if you are simply uploading pictures to a site such as Flickr or Facebook, it's probably more trouble than it's worth.Depending on the make, the details embedded in the photo – known as theEXIF data– include the camera's unique serial number.Hayes, who lives in Melbourne, recalls: "Without any expectations whatsoever, I entered my missing [camera's] serial number. First hit. Bang. Straight to a Flickr account. A photo is shown, taken in March this year and uploaded shortly after. I check the EXIF data of the image and it's my camera, my serial number and my missing lens."Hayes said he had "the most incredible feeling" when he realised he had rediscovered his lost gift.It was indeed Hayes's camera – a Canon 5D MKII – that had been used since May 2009, just six weeks after it was stolen. The new user had even used it to take a photo of himself posing in front of a mirror, which he posted on Facebook.Even better, a web search turned up the address of the person who had taken the photos (to show off their business) – and they happened to live just a short walk from a police station.After a short investigation the camera and lens were returned to Hayes, who had been able to retrieve a copy of his original invoice.For Burns, Hayes's story is the most prominent of what he hopes will be a string of success stories that will help reunite people with their treasured (and valuable) cameras. Other cases include a South African man who, after his camera was stolen, decided to sell its charger. He was then contacted by the person who bought that, having realised he had purchased the stolen camera.Burns has been adding camera serial numbers embedded in pictures into his database since April 2010. Although not all cameras include them, Burns says "the newer, more popular cameras do write the information. Most DSLRs [professional-grade digital cameras] do."Among the makes supported by his database are Canon, Casio, Kodak, Fuji, Hasselblad, Hewlett-Packard, Leica, Nikon, Olympus, Panasonic, Pentax, Phase One, Ricoh, Samsung, and Sigma. Smartphones aren't supported - yet: "In theory it would work with smartphones in the same way, however I've yet to find a model that writes any useful ID in the EXIF," Burns says. "I may find a way though, it's just not been an area I've focused on. I may for example find some models write the IMEI [unique handset number]."Burns's site – much of which he produced while in Cambodia on a 12-month round-the-world trip – is growing fast, with more than 50,000 daily unique visitors in May alone. The database itself is growing quickly too: anyone can add an extension for the Google Chrome browser that will check any serial numbers found in photos online and pass them back to the database.But couldn't whoever stole the camera just delete the EXIF data? "It's pretty trivial for a determined thief," admits Burns. "However, I think that having to do this makes a stolen camera much less valuable. Also, if the new owner didn't know it was stolen, they wouldn't wipe the EXIF data."That's exactly what happened in Hayes's case. The person who ended up with the camera will not face charges, as the police have accepted that he had no part in the original theft.Burns has also created a business model for his site: the first search is free, but anything more requires a paid login, which will search many more details from the EXIF data.
At the beginning of December, I blogged aboutbuying a Lumiato see if I could make it my main phone. We're a month down the line - are we all expecting that it went well?Umm … it did not. Does anyone want to buy a hardly-used Lumia?DesignPhysically, the Lumia is a gorgeous machine. The feel of it, the layout of the buttons and - oh - that screen is completely wonderful. The little flap you have to negotiate to get to the USB port is a pain, but apart from that it's wonderful. It's a hundred times better than the iPhone 4-class chassis (a design I would actually go so far as to say I "hate"). Personally, I can't see the point of buying any Windows Phone unit that was not a Lumia.Good news: doneThe phone I owned before this was an iPhone 3GS, which was coming up to its two-year anniversary when I bought the Lumia. With the iPhone, it was common (almost routine) to pick it up and play with it every time I noticed it. For instance, I might be passing from one room to the other, pick it up, unlock it, have a look at Twitter, put it down and resume. What I've discovered in the past week is that I'll look at the Lumia, consciously avoid it and continue with my routine. Likewise, one day I noticed that I wanted to check Twitter, my daughter was using my iPad and I thought "I'll just wait" rather than finding and using the Lumia.Something with that picture is very wrong.What's wrong is the niggles. Windows Phone is agoodoperating system. But it's not agreatoperating system. (Yes, I know there areformer Windows Phone general managers who say it's "superior", and I think they're wrong.) It's the niggles that's stopped me from developing a deeper relationship with the device that turns it into a ubiquitous tool, as opposed to "just a phone".Pearls of wisdomThe last phone that I loved was my BlackBerry Pearl. I was pretty convinced I was going to have to be buried with that thing, such was the tenacity with which I fantasied that I would clutch it in my cold, dead hands. The phone I loved before that was a BlackBerry 7210. The one before that - I can't entirely remember, but it was a BlackBerry with a monochrome screen. I've never loved my iPhone in the same way as any of those BlackBerry units, but the reason why RIM got so much out of my cold, dead heart was that in the golden time of RIM, the devices engendered trust.Every BlackBerry that I owned was an incredible phone because it did the job I needed to do amazingly well. At the time I was on the road and had to handle about 150 emails a day. I had 1,200 contacts in my address book and a diary to match. It was plumbed directly into my Exchange box. It was completely perfect - pick it up, boom, everything there, everything was fast, the battery lasted for about 400 years and the data tariff was cheap as chips. Importantly though, the thing never turned itself into a chunk of beautifully shaped, though fundamentally useless, polycarbonate.There has been some press with the Lumia aboutbattery problems. Mine, apparently, does not have a "battery problem". However, when you run it down to empty you cannot charge it again with plugging it into the mains. (A car charger won't resume it, and USB definitely won't.) Sometimes even if it is plugged into the mains you have to muck about with it for close to 30 minutes trying the Nokia equivalent ofCtrl+Alt+Delon the thing. On full charge I can get 16 hours out of the thing, so I'm constantly stressed about it running out of battery. What if I'm out in the car, break down and have no battery? I'd better hope I've remembered my mains inverter and mains charger to get it booted again. Crazy.But it's more than just the battery …A lot of the actual software niggles were covered by Charles Arthur inhis review of the HTC Titan. It was this review that prompted me to buy a Lumia to see for myself whether he was correct. (Spoiler: he was, generally.)It was quite interesting for me to learn during this exercise more about what I really used my phone for. The answers were, apparently, playing music in the car, Twitter, web browsing, email, calendar and - unless avoidable - making phone calls. I discovered this list through self-reflection - they are the things I no longer wanted to do on a phone because of the Lumia.The music app, based on Zune, is hilarious. To understand why, first compare it with the iPod UI, which is about as basic as you can make it: artists contain albums which contain songs. Build a list of songs and it will play them in turn or randomly. There is no flair or sophistication contained within.OK. In one of my favourite Father Ted episodes -Think Fast, Father Ted, the DJ only brings one record (Ghost Town by The Specials). That's what the Zune app is like. If you own one 7in single, you are absolutely fine.Zune, rather than just blithely ripping off Apple's design, makes life as hard as possible. Want to play all albums by a given artist? Firstly, wait several days while your unconscious works out how to do it. Google on and off during that period and find nothing that works. Then eventually, half by accident, click on the little arrow icon next to the artist (as opposed to by thenameof the artist. Clicking the name of the artist, incidentally, shows you all the albums by that artist.)Similarly, you want to play everything in the collection at random? Simple - just swipe three times and click twice and you're golden! (That one Google did help me with. Note: If you're having to RTFM to use a music player, the music player design team is doing it wrong.)It's actually the quality of the sound output that really lets the Lumia down. For one thing, you only have one volume setting so if you crank the volume up to full (as I have to in my car - or, OK,wantto), the ringer ends up at full as well. So every time I unplug it from the car, I have to wind the volume back. That's ignoring the fact that the volume is insultingly quiet. I bought aheadphone amplifier, which made a difference, but the resulting sound has little punch or verve, which I think is due to the Lumia, not the app. Something in that bundle of hardware and software is stripping the life out of the music and giving it a sort of pasty, Val Doonican-like quality. The Lumia does not, repeat not, turn your car into a banging urban clubland.(OK, but let's look at trust. Do I want my kids woken up at 3am because I've forgotten to wind the ringer down from "wake the dead" to "wake normal human male"? No - so I worry. I start drifting off to sleep and wake up in a panic about whether I've turned the ringer volume down.)The more sinister problem is that I end up thinking that I'll live with the Lumia and blow £2k on a new car audio setup - which it's worth noting was fine when I was rocking an iPhone. This pattern I found repeating: on the iPhone I used the built-in clock app to time baking cakes with the kids. With Windows Phone it would "tombstone" (ie, suspend) the third-party kitchen timer app so our Christmas cake was almost ruined. The result - buy an actual kitchen timer rather than use an app. That isn't the point of this stuff.TweetingNow, those who know me will tell you that I like Twitter.In Charles's review of the HTC Titan he mentioned that the built-in Twitter app does not show you pictures of the people you're tweeting with, but only shows their name. That's the rule of designing for Metro - it's all typographical. That would be fine if it wasn't for the case that I only recognise people by their profile pictures. A secondary recognition comes from their Twitter usernames. I would be surprised if I would recognise the actual names of all but a few people that I deal with on a daily basis. But no. you go ahead Microsoft and cram your worldview on how people use Twitter into the OS.So the built-in app was out - it's unusable. The next option, the official Twitter version, I used for a bit, but that doesn't show you properly when you have new mentions - ie, you're actually having a conversation - so that was out. (Incidentally, the UX on that app was borked because of Metro too.) I noticed thatTom Warren- rockstar Microsoft blogger and fan of Windows Phone - was usingBirdsong. I've been using this for a month and it's roughly usable but is nothing like as good as how I remember the official iPhone app was (before they changed it, which I for the record haven't tried). It seems to really struggle to work properly over GPRS.Let's look at this from a trust perspective again. I am one of those people who, for whatever reason, really likes Twitter. The Lumia doesn't connect me with my Twitter peeps; it's just a stubby, more frustrating client that's only of any use on Wi-Fi.Web browsingI'm not entirely sure how I feel about this one. Clicking an IE logo seems deeply counterintuitive. For people like me, the IE brand is not helping. It's also welded into Bing, which might be fine but remember this is abouttrust. I trust Google, I don't trust Bing. So I deleted the IE tile from the home screen and put a shortcut to Google there instead.But Tell Me, Windows Phone's voice recognition app is hard-wired into Bing. Do a search in that mode and it won't use Google. As a result, I don't trust the answers and would revert back to keying in the query on Google.However, web browsing, and the groupware bits of email, calendar and contacts, were about the strongest of the things I would use a phone for.It's a trust thingIn my time working as as software consultant, I've been to many clients where cells of users act in resistance to new software rollout. (Yes, some software resisted against has been mine.) We know this happens because the software doesn't build trust with the users. Click this button when filling out a quote and the quote is lost, or print a report and the paper size is set wrong so the paper won't emerge without manual intervention. Or how about management insisting on a way of working that doesn't fit with reality on the factory floor? There are thousands of examples of software projects that failed because they did not win the user's trust.And so this is the place where I've ended up with Lumia and Windows Phone. I don't trust it to wake me up in the morning because the battery life is so lousy. I don't trust it to time the baking of a cake. I don't trust the traffic data because it's "x" minutes delayed and I'm sitting in a traffic jam that it claims isn't there because it wasn't there 15 minutes ago when I could have turned off this damn road. I don't trust it not to frustrate me using Twitter when I'm on GPRS. I don't trust it to connect to my Mac without four reboots of both phone and Mac. I could go on - interestingly I reallywantto go on, but I shan't.So I miss my iPhone, and that tells me most of what I need to know about this experiment. And I miss it because the iPhone isn't a phone - it's a small-scale personal computer. It connects me with the things in my life that are important to me; it provides information. The battery life could be better - please guys, just make itthickeror something - but fundamentally it's reliable, and from the reliability comes trust.I really wanted Windows Phone to work for me. This was £400 of my own money spent to try it. But it just doesn't work well enough to be the small-scale personal computer that I must have on me all the time.Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer and author based in the UK.  His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit.
A burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNo, Argentina isn't blocking iPhone sales &gt;&gt; The Next WebConspiracy theorists lament.5MB Hard Disk Drive, 1956 (Aircraft for transport not included) &gt;&gt; Retronaut"In September 1956 IBM launched the 305 RAMAC, the first 'SUPER' computer with a hard disk drive (HDD). The HDD weighed over a ton and stored 5 MB of data."It fitted fairly easily into an aircraft hold too.A 7in tablet is not just a smaller 10.1in tablet &gt;&gt; TechnoviaIan Betteridge: "I've recently been using a Samsung Galaxy Tab 8.9, one of the newest generation of Android tablets running Honeycomb (an Ice Cream Sandwich update is in the pipeline. Even though it's not significantly cheaper than the 10.1in Tab, I got it because of the different form factor: it's significantly lighter and easier to carry around than the iPad I already use, and makes a nice contrast to the bigger tablets."However, it also illustrates the issues with using an interface which is designed for larger screens on a smaller touch screen. Some of the applications which are designed specifically for Honeycomb have controls and buttons which are perfect for touching on a 10.1in screen, but which are just a shade too small to accurately hit on something a couple of inches smaller."This is why Apple is highly, highly unlikely to produce a 7in iPad.Go Daddy Lost 21,054 Domains Yesterday"According to TheDomains, 21,054 domains were transferred away from Go Daddy on Friday alone. At $6.99 a pop, that would make for a loss of $147,167, not taking future renewals into account. The day before wasn't a good one for the company either, with 15,000 people taking their domains elsewhere. That means that even though Go Daddy changed its stance, people have had enough."Easier than lobbying politicians, of course, to move a domain. But doesn't really get to the root of the problem.Why Android updates are a mess: it's the business model &gt;&gt; ZDNetReally thoughtful piece from Ed Bott pointing out that there's no conspiracy to hold back Android updates from phones; it's an unintended consequence of how the business is set up.Media tablet market dips in Q3 but will explode in Q4 &gt;&gt; IDC"Amazon and Barnes &amp; Noble are shaking up the media tablet market, and their success helps prove that there is an appetite for media tablets beyond Apple's iPad," said Tom Mainelli, research director, IDC Mobile Connected Devices. "That said, I fully expect Apple to have its best-ever quarter in 4Q11, and in 2012 I think we'll see Apple's product begin to gain more traction outside of the consumer market, specifically with enterprise and education markets."Tablets were equivalent to 18% of the PC market in Q3; expect that to be even bigger in Q4. And Android - driven by the Kindle Fire - will be up to 40%.Toshiba Thrive 7" review &gt;&gt; The VergePullquotes: "THE QUESTION IS: HOW MUCH DO YOU LIKE CREAKING PLASTIC?""BE PREPARED FOR A NICE ARRAY OF PHOTOS OF YOUR INDEX FINGER""ICE CREAM SANDWICH CANNOT COME FAST ENOUGH TO THESE HONEYCOMB TABLETS" (remember when Honeycomb was the saviour of Android tablets?) "TOSHIBA CANNOT TAKE ON SAMSUNG IN THESE AREAS" "A GOOD DISPLAY ISN'T ENOUGH TO MAKE THIS TABLET A GOOD CHOICE"Oh well.There's A Lot Of Misinformed Bloviating About This Yahoo Deal — Here's The Truth &gt;&gt; Business InsiderHenry Blodget points out that Yahoo's Alibaba sale will bring in much less cash than the $17bn people have suggested, and will actually just be in companies whose value will be uncertain.Tablets account for nearly 40% of non-computer web traffic in Brazil and Colombia &gt;&gt; Cellular News"Non-computer devices (including mobile phones, tablets, and other connected devices) accounted for an average of 2.6% of all web browsing activity across the 10 Latin American markets, according to comScore."When looking at non-computer traffic, Brazil had the highest percentage of web traffic coming from tablets at 39.9%, while Chile had the highest percentage of web traffic coming from mobile phones at 78.8%."A couple of percent might sound tiny, but that's in a market not previously thought of as well-penetrated by smartphones or tablets. Latin America is one of the few growth areas for PC sales; if tablets and smartphones start getting ahead there, things could change quickly for PC makers.Mozilla and Google Sign New Agreement for Default Search in Firefox | The Mozilla Blog"'We're pleased to announce that we have negotiated a significant and mutually beneficial revenue agreement with Google. This new agreement extends our long term search relationship with Google for at least three additional years.'"'Under this multi-year agreement, Google Search will continue to be the default search provider for hundreds of millions of Firefox users around the world,' said Gary Kovacs, CEO, Mozilla."The report by Kara Swisher suggests Google will pay $300m per year to Mozilla. That's a big increase on the last contract. And Google beat Yahoo and Microsoft to it. There's still life and rivalry in web searchICS Paper Cuts &gt;&gt; TumblrA Tumblr looking at UI inconsistencies or weirdnesses in Ice Cream Sandwich (aka Android 4.0). If you're presently on Android 2.x, you'll probably find ICS like moving into a new house where all the rooms have been rearranged. So, is there a similar Tumblr for iOS?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest links, tag articles on Pinboard.in with "guardiantech"
It's the day before New Year's Eve! Will you be indulging in enforced merriment at some ludicrously over-priced club night, or staying at home playing Dance Central? Whatever your plans, share them with us (as long as they're not too exciting).
A minor Twitterstorm blew through on Wednesday when MG Siegler, formerly of TechCrunch, noted that Andy Rubin, the head of Google's Android mobile division, had deleted hisfamous first tweetabout "the meaning of open" (a command line expression explaining how to build Android from the kernel.org repository).Update:he hadn't deleted it; Twitter had temporarily lost it, but has now restored it, as it told Siegler:"During maintenance we encountered a bug. It caused us to drop a very small percentage of tweets. One of those was Andy's. As soon as we realized this, we began work to restore them. We were able to recover them quickly and they've now been restored," Twitter spokesperson Carolyn Penner tells me (from vacation no less).MG Siegler, noticing its [apparent] absence,wrote a fairly snarky post on its vanishment, which includes the tweet's content.).Where had it gone? No explanation in Rubin's tweets, which simply ploughed on with his latest about the3.7m Android devices activated over December 24 and 25(do you think that might actually be the start of Christmas Day in Australia and New Zealand, when it would still be Christmas Eve in Google's home in California? Even so, that's a lot of devices.). To find out we had to turn to DeWitt Clinton, whoisa "technical lead on Google's developer team, focused on building product APIs, growing the developer ecosystem, and defending the open web".Clinton explains in apost on Google+that Rubin deleted the tweet because kernel.org was hacked in August, and do the path to the archives had changed.(As explanations go, it's pretty lame: if you try to follow the path in Rubin's tweet -http://android.git.kernel.org/platform/manifest.git- then you get redirected to the location of the current repository, athttp://android.googlesource.com/platform/manifest.git. Not only that, but if Rubin really thinks people are looking to his tweetstream for advice on how to "make" Android then he's overplaying things, and if he also thinks that it's simpler to delete a famous tweet than to add another one explaining the redirect, then he's not quite got the hang of this "communication" thing. Which would be ironic, really.)Update:with therestored tweet, you can confirm this for yourself. So that's Rubin exonerated.But what was more striking was the comment by Clinton about what he believes to be the benefits of Android - not for what it can bring to Google (because remember, anyone can fork Android - as Amazon and Barnes &amp; Noble, and a number of Chinese manufacturers have - so that it doesn't use Google services such as Maps or location-based services or ads) but for what it can bring to the wider, unconnected world.Here's what he wrote:I believe what Android is accomplishing is truly revolutionary. Mobile is the way that billions of people will one day access the Internet. And through that access, we will soon start to narrow the massive knowledge gap that currently divides the richest from the poorest populations. That there's now an eminently capable open source mobile operating system, one that is free to use and free to fork, means that the knowledge advantage can be better and more evenly distributed across the planet than ever before.For some pundits, it's all about which companies are building the fanciest and most feature-rich handheld computers. Which, if we're being honest about it, are devices for those that already have everything. When you're at the top, it's great to see the tech giants going head-to-head and competing for our dollars like this. Having a few dollars, I benefit from that, too.And yet in spite of that, I'm even more excited about seeing a $25 mobile device that has access to a killer web browser and endless mobile apps, and watching that device appear in the hands of a billion school children over the next 10 years.We can debate endlessly about which device manufacture added what clever UI to which OS, or what carriers allowed (or banned) which hot little app, or which app store has the more sustainable revenue sharing model for up-and-coming Bay Area startups. But yet, no one is going to remember any of those trivial details in the long run.Historians are, however, going to make note of how the open source Android platform (or its later forks and clones) played a role in facilitating everything from low-cost solar-powered devices in the remotest villages in India and Africa, to a hundred million tablets computers in the classroom each revolutionizing education for children all across Asia and the Middle East, to putting an internet-connected smartphone in the hands of every man, woman, and child in America, even those from the perpetually overlooked majority that simply can't afford a shiny brand-new iPhone or Galaxy Nexus every Christmas.So ultimately I don't give two hoots about which vendor or which carrier gets to ship which device on which network with which apps. But I'm stunned, stunned, by the audacity of releasing the Android platform as free and open source software. Not just because how it has already shaken things up at the top. But how it will go on to shake the rest of the planet upside down.You can quibble about minor details (what's the business model exactly? How affordable is $25 in some countries?) but that's a pretty clear expression - closing the knowledge gap - of why broader ownership of smartphones (and perhaps tablets) is a good thing.
Accessing the internet from a mobile phone will remain hundreds of times more expensive abroad than at home for the next 10 years under proposed European commission rules, politicians warn.The European parliament is to vote in the summer on new caps limiting the amount mobile phone operators can charge travellers. Costs remain astronomical, with some UK networks charging "roaming" customers the equivalent to £3,000 for one gigabyte of data – enough to download 200 songs or watch two hours of video. The proposed price caps, intended to run until 2022, could be set at €500 (£420) for 1GB but MEPs have asked for further reductions."We need better value for the consumer," said Irish MEP Sean Kelly, who wants the cost of 1GB to fall to €90 by 2014. "The commission's proposals were somewhat generous to the industry. I don't think any of the companies involved are going to go bust, they may cry wolf but they are not going to have the wolf at their door. The single market is about free movement of goods, free movement of people. We should be aiming to have no roaming charge at all."Since smartphone adoption became widespread there have been reports of holidaymakers coming home to bills running into thousands of pounds. Last year, Europe imposed a €50 cap on data spending. Internet access is automatically choked off after the limit is breached, unless by prior agreement. But holidaymakers outside the eurozone are not guaranteed such protection.The average price of 1GB in a European country has fallen to €7 for those using their phone at home, according to research firm Berg Insight, though Three charges as little as £1/GB in Britain. In contrast, UK operators O2 and Orange charge pay-monthly customers £3/MB when they are on the continent, the equivalent of £3,000/GB.These charges apply even in countries where they own networks; Orange UK customers will pay £3 when in France. Vodafone automatically opts customers into discounted roaming tariffs, which cost £80/GB in Europe, but £200 in the rest of the world. Such prices mean customers tend to use wifi rather than mobile connections when surfing the web abroad.With the average customer expected to consume 1.3GB per month within the next three years, the commission's proposed caps would still lead to huge bills and do nothing to counter the even higher prices of using phones outside the eurozone.An Orange spokesman said: "We offer a number of bundles to help keep down the cost of data roaming. Taking out a bundle is always advised and can significantly reduce the overall cost of using data abroad. Next year we plan to introduce new controls, such as spending caps, for all areas outside of the EU, to allow all our customers greater spend control and prevent them incurring unexpectedly high charges."Roaming prices are based on wholesale agreements between mobile operators, which have been secretive about what they pay to use each others' networks. Three, which owns networks in Britain, Italy and four other European countries, is lobbying for wholesale prices to drop. It believes they do not reflect the true costs to operators, claiming these are as low as €10-€30/GB. Three wants the cap set at €90, with a corresponding wholesale cap at €30."High prices are choking off use of the internet for travellers," said Three's UK corporate affairs director. "European consumers should be able to access the internet wherever. It's like sitting with a French or Spanish friend in their local bar and being charged 100 times what they are for the same drink."The commission asked MEP Angelika Niebler to review its proposals and this month she presented a report saying consumers should pay no more than €200/GB, a significant reduction on the commission's original proposal. She also suggested steep reductions in tariffs for texting and calling from abroad."We need to be very ambitious," Niebler said at a debate on her report. "The target is to ensure that national costs and tariffs are similar to European tariffs so we won't have a separate roaming tariff any longer – that's the ultimate goal. Consumer organisations will agree; providers have a different take."The commission first introduced price caps for roaming in 2007 and is preparing a new round of cuts which are due to be voted on by the parliament in June. The cuts would be staggered over a three year period beginning in July 2012 and ending in July 2014, and will remain in place for up to 10 years.MEPs have tabled 11 amendments to Niebler's report. Kelly, a member of the centre-right Eurpean People's Party, and four others have put forward Three's proposals. The Greens have suggested even lower prices and the others all agree that caps should be lower than the commission proposes.
This year has seen more extremely high-quality games released in a shorter space of time than any other year. It has provided Fifa and Call of Duty for the socially competitive, Skyrim and Dark Souls for the introspective adventurer, and Deus Ex: Human Revolution and Portal 2 to prove that writing can be as intrinsic a part of a game as design.It's given us Zelda: Skyward Sword and LittleBigPlanet 2 for our inner child and Mario Kart and Pokemon Black and White for our actual ones. We've had gaming's most confident blockbuster in Uncharted 3, its most accurate and passionate motorsports simulation in Forza 4, and its most unashamedly camp choreography in Just Dance 3 (which, incidentally, sits alongside Dark Souls as a personal game of the year).Despite that this year has been defined by a pervasive and tangible sense of ennui for a lot of us. If you've been playing games for a decade or more, you're used to an industry that's barely recognisable from one year to the next, obsessed with technology that changes so quickly it's difficult to keep up. But we've had the same consoles and the same franchises dominating the living room for five years now, and aside from Nintendo's Wii U next year, there's nothing new on the horizon. This year has been superb for quality, sure – but there's a feeling that it's been low on creativity, and bereft of change.It's a gut feeling that belies the truth of the situation. The change is still going on; you just have to look elsewhere to find it. Although the games themselves this year have slowed their pace of change, the way that we talk about them is evolving quickly. We've seen evidence of an endemic fatigue with certain aspects of the games press from both developers and readers, bored with the industry's fixation on review scores rather than interesting criticism.Meanwhile, 2011 has seen games discourse spread ever further from the relatively remote corners of the internet that it used to occupy, making its way deeper into the old media strongholds of television, radio and newspapers. We've even had probably the first widely successful novel with video game culture at its heart in Ernest Cline'sReady Player One. And the gaming conversation isn't so dominated by male nerds any more; it's getting steadily more balanced.More worryingly, though, 2011 marked the point at which the games industry truly stratified. Looking at how things stand at the end of this year, you see big-budget triple-A games, successful indie and mobile titles, and very little inbetween. Mid-level studios – the sort that still rely on the big publishers to patronise their games and fund development – are in big trouble. A raft of studio closures in the UK and abroad, from Bizarre Creations to Codemasters Guildford, proves the point. Unless you're a nimble and adaptable small developer self-publishing games for the iPhone or a massive team working on a mega-franchise for a huge publisher, times are very tough.Superb downloadable games such as Bastion, Insanely Twisted Shadow Planet and Outland have been released on Xbox Live Arcade and the PlayStation Network this year, and haven't found anything like the sales success that they were hoping for. The platform holders – Sony, Microsoft and especially Nintendo – aren't adapting quickly enough to digital distribution to safeguard the success of these titles.Microsoft, initially so forward-thinking with Xbox Live Arcade, has buried its independent games channel so deep in the new Xbox dashboard that it'll be a minor miracle if an XBLA game ever sells more than 100,000 copies again. Sony severely damaged trust in the PlayStation Network service following April's hacking scandal, and the talented mid-level studios that made games such as Rochard and Outland suffered as a result. Steam, meanwhile, though infinitely more flexible than either of those services, still has its problems, and visibility is still the biggest issue for developers who publish their work on PC.The sad thing is that it's not just average, forgettable games such as this year's Homeland or Bodycount that are falling off the grid as a result of this stratification – it's also those unusual, lovable games that exist on that creative plane between blockbuster and one-man studio. Most of my favourite bonkers games of the PlayStation 2 era – Gitaroo Man, Amplitude, Steambot Chronicles and everything that Suda 51 has ever done – simply couldn't exist now. They'd never get made. We're not seeing these weirder, riskier games anymore outside of the PC.There's nothing wrong with either Angry Birds or Modern Warfare 3, but if this trend continues it's not impossible that we'll soon live in a world where those are the only types of game around. I have faith, though, that things will keep on changing, and developers and publishers alike will find new ways to get the more interesting stuff in front of us.The app store – currently an uncharitable sea of dross and shovelware – will surely evolve into a place where it's easier to find the best games among the Bejeweled and Angry Birds variants. Self-publishing might be a faintly terrifying prospect for a lot of developers now, but ultimately it's a way for the people who actually make games to get more money out of selling them, once the proper channels are in place.Despite appearances, and despite the prevalence of 2s, 3s and 4s after game titles, things are still changing fast. It looks like 2012 is going to be about who can adapt.•Keza MacDonald is UK Games Editor at IGN.com. You can follow her on Twitter@kezamacdonald
OurTop 20 Games of the Yearlist for 2011 provoked plenty of interesting discussion, but judging from most of the reactions, it seems we got things more or less right. Mostly. Kind of.There were of course, glaring omissions readily picked up on by our readers. The absence of Witcher 2, CDProjekt's dark, literary RPG, riled some, especially as its take on branching narratives and the concept of character progression is deemed by many to be superior to the Elder Scrolls system. On the subject of fantasy titles, we also passed over the wonderful Xenoblade Chronicles, declared by many to be the best Japanese RPG for a generation.Two excellent PS3-exclusive shooters were overlooked. The stark Killzone 3 (still a poster boy for 3D visuals) and the involving Resistance 3 should probably be on every PlayStation owner's new year sales grab list. We let both of the year's Lego titles slip by unrewarded, too, much to the chagrin of our resident plastic block fancier, Neil Davey, who loved both the Harry Potter and Pirates of the Caribbean releases.Elsewhere, driving games received short shrift, with Dirt 3, Gran Turismo 5 and Forza 4 all critically acclaimed and much enjoyed. There were also plenty of stunning downloadable titles alongside the might Bastion: Insanely Twisted Shadow Planet, Joe Danger: Special Edition, Sonic CD and Guardian Heroes were all essential purchases – though the latter two remind us of another "genre" neglected by our list: the HD remakes. Should we have found some space for the likes of the Metal Gear Solid collection and Ico/Shadow of the Colossus?Anyway, just to close this year's listing fun, here are a bunch of other titles, chosen by a selection of our reviewers, that could have made it into the Top 20, in another dimension …Steve Boxer on Dead Island(Techland/Deep Silver, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)Dead Island made a pre-launch splash, thanks to a super-cool trailer played out backwards and in slow-motion. But more importantly, it found a new spin on zombie games, being a proper RPG (reminiscent of Fallout 3, gameplay-wise), charting the overnight zombification of a previously idyllic resort. It employed as much rigour as is possible given that (whisper it) zombies don't actually exist – forcing you to fashion weapons from found objects. OK, it was buggy – what RPG isn't these days – but it was thoroughly absorbing, fearfully addictive and deserves extra plaudits for originating from an obscure, unfancied developer and publisher.Greg Howson on Star Wars: The Old Republic(EA, PC)Yes, it was only released the week before Christmas, but already SWTOR has shown enough to make the list. By adding Bioware's trademark narrative skills to the familiar MMO template, SWTOR is instantly engrossing. Longer-term doubts remain about the content for high-level players, but by focussing on the journey more than the destination, SWTOR has made MMOs more welcoming than ever.Mike Anderiesz on Crysis 2(EA, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)I had high hopes for it, and the single-player game was still strong with some killer set-pieces and graphics. Weak AI and formulaic multiplayer may explain its absence from our top 20, but it still shafts Minecraft from every conceivable angle. Where's the justice?!Adam Boult on Defender (DroidHen, Android)A free, simple and ludicrously addictive tower defence game. You're an archer defending a castle from various monsters who approach in waves trying to smash the walls down. Each level lasts just a couple of minutes, and your bow-skills are rewarded with credits to spend on power ups. Has a devilish "just one more go" factor that can easily swallow up hours of your time.Stuart O'Connor on Mario Kart 7(Nintendo, 3DS)After the disappointment that was Mario Kart on the Wii, it's great to see this classic racer back on track. The new features – such as the hang gliders, and the underwater sections – really enhance the fun, and the 3D effects are excellent. Here we go!Nick Cowen on Child Of Eden(Ubisoft, PS3, Xbox 360)Child Of Eden feels less like a video game than it does an interactive experience. Every aspect of Tetsuya Mizuguchi's gorgeous rail-shooter works hard to immerse the player, blocking out the mundane world around them, plunging them into a swirling majestic universe. Players fly through glistening corridors of light, purifying ethereal shapes and creatures as hammering percussion and aching synth-lines pull at their heartstrings and play with their emotions. Child Of Eden offers players a world like no other. It's a tidal wave of ecstasy and wonder.
I would like to buy a replacement for my old TV/VCR combination and have been trying to find out which of the two free digital TV platforms, Freeview and Freesat, might be the better long term bet. I remember an article in the Guardian when Freesat first appeared stating that, because of its greater capacity and therefore space for HD channels, it would ultimately conquer Freeview. My local retailers have nothing useful to say on the subject. Bearing in mind that VHS and Betamax video fought a short war some years ago, in which the former was ultimately victorious, can you offer some advice so that my money is spent wisely?Ian TurpinThe battle betweenFreeviewandFreesatisn't really much of a battle, and it's not like the war between VHS and Betamax or Blu-ray and HD DVD formats. In those wars, you had to buy an expensive player and probably spend even more money on content (movies etc) that would only work with one system. With Freeview and Freesat, the set-top boxes are cheap, and neither requires you to buy either tapes or discs. In fact, many people have both systems plugged in to the same TV set.It's also a very simple decision. Go to one of theFreeview coverage checkerssuch as the ones atdigitaluk.co.ukandfreeview.co.uk/availability/and type in your UK postcode. These will tell you which services and channels you can get.Basically, if you live in a good Freeview reception area, you should get it. However, there are several ways to do this. You can buy a standalone set-top box, or buy a TV or DVR (digital video recorder) or other device that has one or two Freeview decoders built in. Set-top box prices start at about £20, which is not a lot to pay for access to 50-odd TV channels. However, if you want to receive the high-definition (HD) channels then you will need a more expensive Freeview HD receiver and an HD TV set. Freeview HD boxes start at about £40.It's useful to have two Freeview decoders so that you can record one channel while watching another.If you get a reasonably good picture on your current analogue TV set, then you should get decent Freeview reception using the same aerial. If you are in a weaker reception area, then you should get an approved installer to install a good rooftop aerial. (A good rooftop aerial is never a bad idea.ATV Aerial Salesis a mine of useful information.)Freeview is still being rolled out in the UK, and new transmitters are being added while old analogue TV services are being turned off. By the end of 2012, most people should get acceptable Freeview reception, but it will probably never cover the whole of the UK. If you like in an area where there is no coverage, or there is no prospect of an improvement to poor coverage, then either Freesat orFreesat from Skywould be your best option. (Those two are different services. Freesat could be called "Freesat from the BBC and ITV".) Freesat from Sky has by far the most channels.Freesat SD (standard definition) and Freesat HD set-top boxes are a bit more expensive than Freeview boxes and, of course, there could well be the extra cost of installing a satellite dish. Freesat from Sky uses a SkyHD box and the one-off installation charge is £175.There are three other reasons for choosing Freesat over Freeview:• You already have a satellite dish and would prefer to use it rather than installing an aerial. You may, for example, want to switch from a monthly Sky subscription to Freesat from Sky.• Either Freesat or Freesat from Sky offers channels you want and they are not available on Freeview. Brian Butterworth's excellent UK Free TV website has a table ofAll free-to-watch channels.• You are unhappy with the quality of one or more favourite Freeview channels and expect to get a better picture from Freesat.Freeview does have very limited bandwidth, compared to satellite services, and it suffers from the same problems as DAB and (to a lesser extent) cable TV in the UK. Namely, it's assumed that viewers would prefer to have 50 channels of badly-rendered rubbish than 35 (or whatever) channels that are delivered in good quality. This leads to periodic outcries when broadcasters reduce the transmission quality of existing channels to make room for something hardly anyone wants, but you're not a paying customer so complaining doesn't make any difference. Bandwidth costs money, and Freeview bandwidth costs more money.Currently, Freeview provides access to four free HD channels (BBC One HD, BBC HD, Channel 4 HD and ITV1 HD), Freesat has five, and Freesat from Sky has six. This doesn't necessarily mean they are equivalent in quality.I haven't used my large (pre-Freesat) dish for a few years so I'm unable to comment on the relative quality of Freeview and Freesat transmissions, but I'm sureBrian Butterworth (@briantist)and others can tell us in the comments. Subjects with fast changes and rapid horizontal movements, such as football, are particularly likely to suffer from artifacts (blockiness). It's something you should research if it's important to you.I suspect that the most difficult choice you face will be buying a digital recorder or DVD or Blu-ray player to replace your VCR. There are all sorts of devices that combine a Freeview receiver, a hard drive recorder, an optical disc and perhaps even a VCR in a single convenient box. You can continue to use your current VCR for as long as it lasts, but you may want to copy a few recordings and any family movies to DVD.Most good DVD players now include "upscaling" to convert DVD movies to HD TV resolution. Blu-ray offers even better quality, and Blu-ray players now start at about £40. Jumping straight from an analogue TV/VCR combo to HD TV/Blu-ray would certainly show you how far we've come!
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 24 DecemberPositionWeeksin chartPlatform(share%)Game (age rating)1 (4)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (38)Wii (6)PSP (4)132 (3)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (40)Wii (4)PC (3)73 (2)Just Dance 3(3+)Wii (86)Xbox 360 (12)PS3 (2)114 (6)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (45)95 (7)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (43)PC (1)66 (5)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (38)67 (9)Need For Speed: The Run(16+)PS3 (48)Xbox 360 (47)Wii (3)3DS (1)68 (1)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (31)PC (10)79 (8)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (100)610 (–)Star Wars: The Old Republic(16+)PC (100)111 (13)Forza Motorsport 4(3+)Xbox 360 (100)1012 (12)Mario Kart 7(3+)3DS (100)413 (10)Professor Layton And The Spectre's Call(7+)DS (100)514 (17)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (78)Xbox 360 (19)PS3 (4)3915 (19)Sonic Generations(7+)Xbox 360 (46)PS3 (34)3DS (20)PC (1)316 (15)Super Mario 3D Land(3+)3DS (100)617 (11)Batman: Arkham City(15+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (44)1018 (–)Zumba Fitness 2(PG)Wii (100)119 (–)Rayman Origins(7+)Xbox 360 (42)PS3 (33)Wii (25)120 (14)Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception(15+)PS3 (100)8UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
There's no doubt that 2011 was the year in which Android took over the smartphone market, going from an already-leading 36% share of the market by the end of the first quarter to 52% by the end of the third quarter (according to the research company Gartner's figures).A fairly constant refrain over that period has been questions about whether Android phones on earlier versions of the operating system would be upgraded – or whether the manufacturers and carriers would simply abandon them (ashas happened).Well, here's something to think about.The version running most Android handsets in 2011 was "Froyo", aka version 2.2, which was released in May 2010.And next: the version thatlooks likely to dominate 2012 is "Gingerbread", aka version 2.3.x, which has overtaken Froyo. As for "Ice Cream Sandwich", aka version 4.0, which was released in November/December, who knows when that will dominate. (Honeycomb never had a chance – it was a tablet-only version.)So what's the answer to the non-updating question? Thereisno single answer; butas Ed Bott points out, both the handset makers and the carriers do some fairly straightforward calculations to work out whether it's worth their time (and hence money) to go through the regression testing, network testing and updating process for something that won't necessarily earn them any more money, or just to focus on the new devices – from many different handset companies – coming in through the door.(And consider that companies such as HTC, the biggest Android seller in the US,will have a lot of handsets for consideration– 23 over the past two years, compared to just two from Apple. Guess which is cheaper to push updates through? And yes, Apple updates get carrier-checked too.)While non-upgraded handsets don't necessarily create a problem for the owners of the phones (which is a whole different discussion), it can for developers who want to be able to take advantage of the latest features and APIs built into the newer versions of the operating system. That's the dreaded "fragmentation" – the splits between all the different versions of Android that means that it's hard to know which version to target as the "lowest common denominator".The interesting question though is: how quickly do new versions of Android overtake old ones? How quickly does it spread through?To help developers figure out what versions to target (and which are current), there's theAndroid Developer platform statisticspage, which gives a snapshot of the version of Android used to access the Android market over a previous fortnight. It doesn't, sadly, keep historical data, so there's no way to view past figures.Ah, but there is – using theWayback Machine, which takes snapshots of all sorts of pages over time. (The snapshots collect data from a couple of weeks before the date on the page, so the 27 December 2011 figure relates to data up to the start of December, for instance, and doesn't include Christmas activations. Google hasn't updated the page.)And here it is. Note that it's very likely to accurately reflect the profile of the devices out there, because there are constant updates even to basic Google services such as Maps (it seems barely a week goes by without something essential demanding an update). Note also that this is showingmarket share, not absolute numbers. There's no way to know, for example, how many phones have been upgraded from 2.1 to 2.2 or 2.3, for example, but it seems a safe assumption to think that they won't be in the multiple millions.Android version shares as recorded by access to Android Market. Source: Google, Wayback MachineThere are quite a few conclusions we can draw from this:• market penetration of an Android version lags introduction (and buzz on websites) substantially. Froyo was released in May 2010, and despite having rapid growth once it appeared (roughly two months later), took six months to become dominant;• it took Gingerbread (2.3.x) almost 12 months to become dominant;• fragmentation was at its worst in May 2010, when three versions (1.5, 1.6 and 2.1) were within a few points of each other;• Honeycomb hasn't made much of an impression, which goes with the problems that Android tablet-makers have had in getting any traction;• Android 4.0 hasn't made any impression at all on the market, but that's unsurprising because its only phone, the Galaxy Nexus, had only just been released when the statistics were compiled. Expect to see it rising through 2012;• it will be harder to distinguish tablet and phone sales in future because Android 4.0 will run on both;• the apparent "declines" in earlier versions probably isn't a real decline in usage of those handsets: their owners likely are still using them. See the graph below for a clearer idea of the real Android picture.One note on the data: I had to interpolate four of the months (two in 2010, two in 2011) as they weren't available through the Wayback Machine. I used a straight-line interpolation, which seemed reasonable when comparing it with the graph of market share that's also on the Android Developer Platform statistics page.Next: how many handsets actually are running each version? How does it look? Because the explosive growth of Android sales has been something to behold. Others, notably Horace Dediu of Asymco, haveattempted to estimate total sales of Android devicesby working from the given number of activations that have been reported over the years. Dediu came to a figure of between 224m and 253m. I used to middle of these two, 238m, to calculate shares.I did this by assuming that phones running Android 1.5 (which persist through the Market access data from January 2010 through to December 2011) never got updated, and that no more were sold after January 2010. That means that they are the constant through this calculation: I assume there are 1.9m of them out there somewhere throughout the period examined. (You could recalculate using the devices on 1.6 as your base, though I suspect more of those were updated.)So here's the graph:Android: device share from January 2010, calculated via data from asymco.com, Google, and Wayback MachinePoints to note:• that's somecolossalgrowth. It's faintly possible the calculation is wrong - but they all fit the numbers that are out there elsewhere;• Honeycomb is that thin black line on the top of the blue one. It works out to about 5.7m devices in total;• there are more Froyo (2.2) handsets out there than there are RIM subscribers (around 74m);• I can't explain the apparent fall in the number of Froyo 2.2 (grey) devices in about October 2011, unless those were being updated to 2.3 - in which case the slight uptick later in the year could be a burst of sales later in the year;• for Ice Cream Sandwich (4.0) to dominate, it is going to have to sell more than the number of "Gingerbread" (2.3.x) handsets now in the market – which, given the Christmas bulge of a few million (likely to have included many more Gingerbread than ICS ones), means it will have to sell more than 120m handsets. (There are about 84m Froyo handsets);• Froyo will remain a significant market for developers to target at least through the first half of 2012; there are so many handsets running it out there (more than there are RIM subscribers) that it would be foolish;• To avoid fragmentation, where you have a near three-way split between different versions (as happened in spring 2010), ICS will need to be on about 150m handsets. But even then, Froyo will still be worth targeting, and it's unlikely that any significant number of those handsets will get a software upgrade, and since many of them were bought in mid-2010, it's unlikely they'll get replaced before mid-2012 in most cases.What none of this data can do is predict how Android sales or the smartphone market generally will develop in the coming year. But from the past data, it looks like 2012 will be the year of Gingerbread – just as 2011 was, even if you didn't know it, the year of Froyo.Here are the tables with the data.Android version market shareAndroidplatformversions3.x2.3.x2.22.1"2.0"1.61.51.113 Jan 20100.33147.621.10February0.23342.315.19March0.153536.99.11814 April 20100.13831.6327.311 May 20100.137.229.40.932.418 June 20100.124.6250.45027 July 201018.922.155.53.328 Aug 201015.320.359.74.522 Sept 20101217.541.728.723 Oct 20109.716.440.433.415 Nov 20107.91540.836.220 Dec 20106.912.63941.4January5.810.237.146.627 Feb 20113.96.331.457.60.823 Mar 201134.82961.30.70.222 April 20112.73.527.263.92.50.27 May 20112.3324.565.940.320 June 20111.92.521.264.69.20.616 July 20111.42.217.559.418.60.9August1.3215.255.924.31.3September1.21.81350.9301.5October1.11.61245.9361.8November0.91.41140.9422.127 Dec 20110.81.39.635.350.62.4Source: Google, Wayback Machine.And now the estimates for the absolute numbers by version:Android devices in use, by versionAndroidplatformversions3.x2.3.x2.22.121.61.51.113 Jan 20100.021.92.921.2900February0.021.92.440.870.52000March0.021.920.490.9800014 April 20100.021.91.580.151.3700011 May 20100.021.91.50.051.6500018 June 20100.021.91.930.033.8600027 July 20100.021.92.2205.580.330028 Aug 20100.021.92.5207.410.560022 Sept 20100.021.92.7706.64.540023 Oct 20100.021.93.2107.916.540015 Nov 20100.021.93.6109.818.710020 Dec 20100.021.93.47010.7411.400January0.021.93.34012.1515.270027 Feb 20110.021.93.07015.328.060.39023 Mar 20110.021.93.04018.3738.820.440.1322 April 20110.021.92.46019.1444.971.760.147 May 20110.021.92.48020.2454.443.30.2520 June 20110.021.92.5021.264.69.20.616 July 20110.021.92.99023.7580.6125.241.22August0.021.92.92022.2281.735.521.9September0.021.92.85020.5880.5947.52.38October0.021.92.76020.7379.2862.183.11November0.021.92.96023.2286.3488.674.4327 Dec 20110.021.93.09022.8584.01120.435.71Estimated. Data from asymco.com, Google, Wayback Machine
In retrospect, 2011 was a year of enormous change in the computing and internet industry – although it was one in which the ground was laid, rather than coming immediately to fruition.What changes?• the ascendance of the ARM chip architecture, and Microsoft's• the ascendance of Android, and smartphones• Samsung's rise to prominence• the humbling of Nokia and the crushing of RIM• the destruction of security and online trust• the death of Flash and the rise of HMTL5• the (continued) erosion of privacy• the intrusion of patentsAnd finally...Into Microsoft's ARMsIt opened with the Consumer Electronics Show, and on everyone's lips was just one question: which  of the dozens of tablets being announced (and in some cases shown off) would overtake Apple in this intriguing, fast-growing market? "Honeycomb", the 3.0 version of Android, waswafted under our noses by Motorola(and promised but not shown by Asus), whileRIM briefly showed the PlayBook, with its promise of Flash playback – the place the iPad would never go.Then Microsoft leapt into CES and dropped a stone whose ripples will spread for years to come. Thenext version of Windows wouldn't only run on Intel chips; it would also run on the ARM architectureused in smartphones, as well as in the iPad and every other non-Windows tablet out there. The idea of tablets running Windows Phone (then only three months old) was simply not countenanced: Microsoft was going to get Windows onto tablets. Why ARM? Because its low-power characteristics mean that you get better battery life. Try as it might – and it has tried plenty – Intel's performance per watt has simply never matched ARM's.For Microsoft, seeing the way that the market is shifting – with PC sales shrinking in the west, its traditional market – tablets are an important bridge to the future. The demonstration at CES laid the groundwork for the next version of Windows, which we'll see in 2012.Microsoft then has a thin line to tread: if Windows 8 on the traditional Intel desktop form factor is like Windows 7, why upgrade? If Windows 8 on a tablet has both the same licence price as Windows on the desktop and a curated app store (the former is unknown, the latter has been announced) then will people want it? And how will tablet makers be able to undercut Apple with comparable equipment if they're paying a Windows licence fee?Despite everything we saw at CES (where Apple didn't exhibit), the iPad is finishing the year with about 60% of the market, with some Chinese companies withdrawing from the tablet market altogether because it just isn't profitable if you're not selling iPads.Android soaringTaken together, 2010 and 2011 have been the years of fastest growth ever in the smartphone market, at 72% and 50% respectively. In a world where people have 8.1bn mobile phones, and mobile connections are outnumbering fixed ones, having a significant share of the mobile market is important.During those two years, Android went from being 9.6% of smartphones sold to 52% – while the volume of smartphones being sold tripled. That means it was far more dominant at the end of the period than the beginning; Andy Rubin of Google tweeted that activations were now running at 700,000 per day (though an analysis by Horace Dediu of Asymcosuggeststhat Google cherrypicks the activation numbers for peak periods). But still, there seem to be between 224m and 253m Android devices out there.The reality is that it's Android which is driving the smartphone revolution. Be in no doubt that that revolution is a good thing: bringing the internet to everyone across the globe, so that they can tell their stories, or get help, can only be positive. Look no further than the Arab Spring, and the way that Syrian activists are able to get their story out by filming and uploading from their phones, for the proof.Among the rivals, while Apple has had blowout quarters (becoming the largest smartphone vendor both in revenues and shipment in the second quarter, only to be overtaken by Samsung in the third), the sheer tide of Android phones is overwhelming it along with all other competitors. So far Apple has shown no sign of wanting to compete directly on price at the low end, letting older models such as the iPhone 3GS serve to fill gaps in its offering.It's nothing like its approach to the music player market, when it constantly refreshed the iPod lineup, in different sizes and prices. But the smartphone market is not like the iPod market (or the tablet market): it's divided among many players, and none has more than about 25% of the sector. That makes it prone to sudden shifts when one company or another gets a competitive advantage.Hello, SamsungThe Korean company has grasped the opportunity offered by Android with both hands and made the most of it. It was the first to react to the iPad with an Android tablet, the 7in Galaxy Tab (remember?). That didn't sell, so it ditched it and moved to a larger version, while its smartphone division worked overtime to produce more and better phones.Samsung's advantage isn't just that it's big: it's also inventive, and can get a lot of what it wants done in-house because it makes everything from NAND flash and DRAM chips to touchscreen panels to flatscreen TVs. The only thing it doesn't make is the software (apart from its Bada mobile OS, which is being quietly deemphasised.)2011 was the year that Samsung discovered it could rule in the way that it wants to: it is reckoned to havebecome the largest smartphone vendor by shipments and revenue in the third quarter. I say "reckoned", because it didn't release any precise figures for revenues or shipments. (Contrast that to Apple, RIM or Nokia, which provide hefty amounts of detail about where their business comes from.)Will analysts start querying its financial and shipment figures (which presently they have to guess at)? Will Samsung provide more clarity about its financial workings, or does that go against the rules of thechaebol?Crushed by circumstance: Nokia and RIMOn arriving at Nokia from Microsoft in September 2010, Stephen Elop found a company whose strategy was in tatters. Symbian, the mobile OS that apparently dominated the world smartphone market, was making no impression in the US, the biggest smartphone market, and dwindling in Europe. Worse, it wasn't suitable for the touchscreen operation that people were demanding.Elop decided that Symbian had to go; it wasn't future-proof. But the parachute that the Nokia team had been relying on, Meego, wasn't ready either, and he could see it wouldn't be ready in time. After some rapid negotiations with Google and Microsoft, he convinced his former employers to hand over $1bn for marketing and let Nokia tweak Windows Phone to its taste. The announcement came in February, and had been expected (helped by atweet from Google's Vic Gundotra– who'd been in on the negotiations – that "two turkeys don't make an eagle".Nokia didn't do well as a result. Its travails have been well-reported: Symbian's market share has gone from Android-ish levels to an also-ran. Its Lumia 800 may or may not have sold well (the lack of any hard figures suggests there's nothing stunning happening). A company that once ruled the mobile world is now under attack on all fronts – in China, its former stronghold (where cheap white-label phones are taking off) and in Europe.Yet Nokia has determination; there's a sort of corporate culture that drives the company onwards towards the light. Elop made tough decisions which have killed projects and moved thousands of jobs out of the company, but Nokia has snapped to it: the Lumia is a wonderful piece of hardware, as nice to hold as any phone produced in the entire year.One can't help but contrast that with RIM, which began the year promising that it would have a 4G version of the PlayBook which would connect to the Sprint network, yet when it arrived it underwhelmed: there was no inbuilt email or calendar functionality, and its lack of apps made Android's Honeycomb look well-stocked – which it wasn't.RIM wasn't helped by the late arrival of new phones, and the fact that it had completely overestimated how the PlayBook would sell: it ordered something like 2m, and shipped about 850,000. Overconfidence is a continuing trait of the public pronouncements of RIM's chiefs.The company has serious problems. The co-chief executives don't seem to be able to figure out a strategy that will keep them ahead of the rivals. The situation was bad enough when it was just Apple and Android; but now that Microsoft and Nokia have teamed up, adding their heft to the Windows Phone platform, RIM is beginning to look like the runt of the pack. In December, when RIM announced its quarterly financial results, Mike Lazaridis – or was it Jim Balsillie? – said that they were in a strong financial position, given that they have a billion dollars in cash.True. But six months earlier, they hadtwobillion dollars in cash. Like Nokia, but about a year later, RIM is discovering that its existing operating system isn't up to the challenges of present competition. However, Nokia has survived multiple existential threats, and adapted to them. RIM has never had to go through that.You haven't seen usThehacking of Sony's PlayStation Networkin April is claimed to have revealed tens of millions of credit card details. It's impossible to know how many were actually stolen, or used. Nor do we know – even now, seven months later – what Sony has found out, or who was behind it. The loose hacking collective Anonymous was blamed, though no definite proof has been provided.Then came thehacking of the business owned by Aaron Barr, who had been promising that he could get inside Anonymous and identify – in real life – its "leaders". He got turned over himself, and the results weren't pretty – although it's worth noting that by the end of the year Barr was back, and appeared mostly unscathed.But that was the start of a hacking spree, by a "crew" calling themselves LulzSec ("lulz" for the laughs, sec for the security, or lack of it) who broke in to various sites. The lesson was obvious, and has been known among security circles for a long time: many websites aren't that secure, because they use slightly outdated software (for the web server, or PHP, or database). LulzSec simply brought that into the open, most notably in breaking into the News International servers to put up spoof pages.It couldn't last – principally because they had attacked the US Congress website and the UK's Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca) site. "If they had just stayed with the commercial ones, nothing would have happened apart from some folks would have had meetings and consumed huge amounts of coffee and biscuits and resolved to improve their security," one expert told me. A number of people are awaiting trial in 2012 in relation to attacks on a number of sites.Those, however, were just a sideshow. Elsewhere, the entire web of trust surrounding secure sites was unravelling. In March, acertificate authority called Comodo was hacked, and used by a self-proclaimed Iranian hacker to issue "legitimate" SSL certificates for a number of sites – including Google, Skype, Mozilla, Live.com and Yahoo.Certificate authorities are to SSL-based security (when you see the padlock in your browser bar) what domain name servers are to web navigation – you have to trust that they're correct, because otherwise everything falls apart.SSL certificates confirm that a secure site really is what it says it is; your computer (or smartphone) has a list inside it of certificate authorities that it trusts, so when you visit an SSL site it checks the certificate against the issuer. If the issuer isn't on the list, you get a warning.But what if a hacker has created a fake certificate from the real authority? Then any site is, as far as your computer or phone knows, legitimate if it presents that certificate. The implications for shopping or other interaction are huge: you become vulnerable to a "man-in-the-middle" (MITM) attack, where someone operates a site using the "new" certificate between you and the real site. From your end, it's a legitimate SSL site. For the person running it, they can see everything passing between you and the real site. Comodo's certificates were revoked, but it depended on whether people accepted a browser update whether they would be protected.That wasn't the end. In July, a Dutch SSL certificate authorityDiginotar – which provided the SSL certificates for sites including the Dutch government – was hacked, and a number of certificates, including one for Google, issued. That was used for a MITMattack on Iranian users of Google Mail– another indication that web security really does have human consequences.Nobody quite knows what the next step for the certificate authority system is. But those in the know agree that it's broken. This is, potentially, one of the most important things to have happened to the web in 2011 – and how it is dealt with in 2012 may be crucial.Flash in the panYou'll probably have noticed that Apple hasn't exactly been in love with Adobe's Flash platform since the launch of the iPhone, but that intensified with the iPad's arrival in spring 2010. So what was Adobe going to do about it? Initially, fight. During the Mobile World Congress in March, Adobeput out some forecasts(go to 11.45) about how many mobile devices would have Flash on them by year-end: 132m, including 50 tablets. However, in the context of an expected 450m smartphones to be sold this year (which is on target; 324m in the first three quarters), that was less than one-third.Apple didn't support Flash, RIM didn't support Flash on its BlackBerry (though confusingly it did on the PlayBook), Microsoft didn't on Windows Phone 7; in fact, only Android handset makers did. Of course, they're rather important, but Adobe could see that it was more important to be pervasive – as Flash is on the desktop, with 95%-plus penetration – than a "nice to have".And so in November, in arather mealy-mouthed blogpost, said – as if happy – that "HTML5 is now universally supported on major mobile devices, in some cases exclusively.  This makes HTML5 the best solution for creating and deploying content in the browser across mobile platforms. We are excited about this."Flash for the desktop will continue, it suggested, but it's hard to imagine that it will have any energy poured into it: the share of browsers capable of showing HTML5-specific content is growing rapidly. Flash was necessary once, but that was then, and HTML5 is now – or at least will be in 2012. Especially given the way that smartphones have outsold PCs in every single quarter, and that tablets (of all sorts) are going to be equivalent to 25% of PC sales for the fourth quarter.Privacy? Why?In 2011 both Facebook and Google were told that they would have to submit to oversight from the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) in the US for the next 20 years. Google was pulled up over Buzz, whichopted you in whether you wanted it or not; Facebook over its continual changing of privacy settings. Facebook's approach to privacy seems to be to suggest that you don't really want it. Just when you think you're comfortable, it changes again.Googletried again with Google+ in June. My own first experience wasn't great (it improved) but – like almost everyone, I suspect – nobody could work out was Google+ wasfor, except to be "something that will divert some people away from Facebook". The idea of "Circles" into which you put people, and then tell them things specific to them, is classic Google – the engineering solution to a people problem. In a way, it's the flipside of Buzz, where everyone got connected whether or not they wanted to be.The trouble with Circles is that nobody who has anything resembling a job has time for them. Should that thoughtful insight about Strictly Come Dancing go to everyone? Just your family? The workmates who you might see on Monday, so they can enjoy your wit? Hell, who knows? As for Sparks, its source of "highly contagious content from across the internet", that seems to have been killed. (If it's there, it's well hidden.Details of the number of users have been well-hidden, but the real problem with Google+ is that its approach to privacy works against what we've gotten used to over the past decade. We're used to putting our stuff on the net, and then desperately rowing back; the European Commission's forthcoming data privacy principles are expected to allow us to wipe out embarrassing or unwanted data from the past – an interesting idea.Nevertheless, privacy is starting to look very ill indeed. All a private investigator needs these days is a couple of pages where you've left a pseudonymous comment, and they can follow you around the web and unearth your real name, family connections and probably phone number. No subterfuge required; it's all there if you join the dots.Patently obviousPatents. Oh, what a year.Apple's war on Android(more specifically, what Steve Jobs saw as Android's copying of iPhone features – something which Google's lead designer declined to comment on) spawned dozens of lawsuits. Microsoft pitched in, extracting per-handset licence fees from Samsung, HTC and a number of other Android manufacturers. Google huffed that: "Failing to succeed in the smartphone market, they are resorting to legal measures to extort profit from others' achievements and hinder the pace of innovation."Theresponseof Frank Shaw, Microsoft's head of PR: "Let me boil down the Google statement … from 48 words to one: Waaaah." Android is set to do better business for Microsoft then Windows Phone at the moment. And it's all profit.Then there were the ones by Lodsys on app developers, despite the fact that both Apple and Google had licensed its in-app purchasing patents.Yes, yes, you can argue about whether those should be patentable. But they have been, and the US does have a patent system, and that's how it works. Grumbling really isn't going to change it – although the protestations of large companies with powerful lobbyists might. That, and the fact that non-American app developers began moving out of the US, because they worried about its effects.FinallyOverall, it was a remarkable year: Android's rise means that there's a new ruler in the smartphone market, rather as Microsoft used to be with Windows Mobile. The hard question now is whether it can hang on to it.Meanwhile, the mobile web is growing faster than the desktop one, and becoming the focus. But the far, far bigger question is about what will replace certificate authorities and rebuild a trust system on the web. That's far more important than the ups and downs of the smartphone world.
