BMW M5 Touring&pound;67,830Miles per gallon:19.1Seats:5Good for:OvertakersBad for:UndertakersWith its phenomenal 5-litre V-10 engine, which blasts you from 0-62mph in four seconds and can do the legendary 'double ton' while fully loaded with everything you need for a two-week family holiday, the M5 Touring is the Ronaldo of that admittedly slim motoring category - the 'supercar estate'. To the undiscerning eye, it looks much like any other 5-series BMW. But then you notice the foot-wide wheels, the telltale side vents, the quadruple exhausts and the fact that the driver's eyes have rolled over in his head...For anyone interested in cars capable of getting your body to Z while your stomach is still at A, the M5 casts an impressive shadow. As soon as I mentioned an M5 was being delivered to my door for a week's driving, I had a line of braying neighbours begging for rides. To them, the M5 is the answer to all their prayers: a family car as blisteringly quick as a Ferrari that comes with five seats, a load-carrying rear-end and even a dog-guard - hit the throttle and your two Labs will probably choke on their collars. But forget the dogs and kids and neighbours, the M5 represents the pinnacle of BMW's monumental contribution to driving quickly - and I was desperate to tick it off my 'wish list'.When it arrived, it became apparent the good people at BMW had grown tired of simply making fast cars, they also wanted to showcase how very clever they are. So the M5 is freighted with enough technology to give even a committed geek a seizure. Once you manage to start the engine - it will only turn over when you have buckled up, selected neutral and covered the brake pedal - you have to choose whether to drive in automatic or use the manual paddle-shifts. You then have to choose how you want the gears to change. There are half a dozen settings ranging from soft through fierce to ferocious. By now you are late setting off and feeling a tad frustrated, but you still have to choose which 'M Drive Manager Package' you want to use to 'control your driving experience'. Now you are really late, and you still haven't activated the satnav, set the cabin air-flow pattern or chosen what time you want the seat heaters to come on. Oh, and you also haven't decided what power output you want - 400 or 500bhp. What? Isn't 400 enough? What happens if I choose 500? If you are indecisive, the M5 will be your undoing.Finally, you are off and at last you can experience what the M5 is really supposed to be about - power, handling, comfort. Except, well, it's profoundly disappointing: like arriving at the summit of Everest on a cloudy day, the M5 fails to live up to the hype. The gearbox is maddening, jerky, lumpy and with longer delays and hesitations between changes than a Harold Pinter play. The ride is stiff, the seats are cramped and the consumption figures are so low even George Bush would have a fit of the vapours. Yes, it takes a lot of fuel to power a V10, but in urban conditions I wasn't even getting double figures. Gut-swooping acceleration aside, the M5 gets a cross rather than a tick on that wish list.martin.love@observer.co.uk
The film Downfall was about Hitler's failure in the Second World War.Or was it about his annoyance that the upgrade to Vista didn't work? Try this remix and decide... (via John Naughton).
So therumourswere right. Blizzard have just announcedDiablo 3at theirWorld Wide Invitationalevent in Paris. A 10 minute demo was shown and judging by the whooping and hollering around me - very un-French - the fans are going to love this. The main press conference starts shortly and I've got some interviews planned for tomorrow (Sunday). So if you have any questions for Blizzard stick them below and I'll see if I can get some answers.
Vodafone is understood to be close to buying a majority stake in Ghana's leading telecoms company for just under $1bn (&pound;480m) as the world's largest mobile phone company continues to hunt for growth in emerging markets.Vodafone has been in talks with the Ghanaian government about the privatisation of Ghana Telecom for several months and it was recently reported that the company is the only outside investor left in the process. An announcement that it is buying a 66.7% stake for $960m is expected by the middle of next week. Vodafone last night refused to comment.Last week communications minister Benjamin Aggrey Ntim told the Ghanaian parliament that the government's stake will be floated on the local stockmarket.Last year France T&eacute;l&eacute;com was rumoured to have secured a 51% stake in Ghana Telecom. The government, however, pulled out of that deal at the last minute because it believed the price being offered - rumoured to have been about $500m - was too low.
1955Bill Gates born in Seattle, Washington1975Drops out of Harvard to establish Microsoft with a friend, Paul Allen1980Microsoft wins a lucrative deal to provide MS-DOS operating systems for IBM computers1983Windows operating system and Word software make their debut1986In a stockmarket flotation, Microsoft is valued at just over $500m1989Microsoft launches Office1992Gates is ranked as the world's richest man by Forbes magazine1994Microsoft officially denies reports that it is seeking to buy the Roman Catholic church1998US justice department sues Microsoft for anti-competitive behaviour1999Judge orders Microsoft to be broken up2000Justice department drops its demand for a break-up2001Microsoft branches out into games with its Xbox console2004European commission levies a record &euro;497m (&pound;340m) fine on Microsoft for abusing its market dominance2006Attempting to take on Apple's iPod, Microsoft launches its Zune music player2008Gates retires from day-to-day management of Microsoft but remains chairman
Do you remember the days of solid state? In the 70s, the words "solid state" could be found on most radios. Usually they bulked off the speaker grille in silvery haut-relief. As a boy I ran my finger across exactly such a sign. All summer I'd waited at the end of a long avenue of Irish elms for the postman to bring the package from my father in Africa. But when it arrived and was duly opened, it was the mysterious term that transfixed me, not the music or words the radio carried.In that period, the term solid state advertised the transistor itself. It boasted the transition from valve to silicon technology. More recently, solid state has made a comeback. It's now used to describe the flash drives and other storage devices that (in some contexts) are replacing the whirring disks of electromechanical hard drives.Though less capacious, solid state drives (SSDs) are more rugged and faster than hard drives. No spin is required to start them, or to find things on them: in fact, the word "drive" is misleading. SSDs are now used in a range of tough, compact computers - so-called subnotebooks, often intended for the education or leisure of young people or for use in the developing world.One such is the Asus Eee PC 900 (from &pound;199, depending on model;uk.asus.comfor stockists) a ready-to-roll websurfer running Windows. Kick-ass teens from Taiwan to Tunbridge Wells are agog for it, having already been introduced to its predecessor, the Eee PC 701. That was partly a response to Nicholas Negroponte's one laptop per child initiative: the green XO machine with sticky-up aerials. Negroponte has just announced plans for an XO-2, due in 2010.The Eee PC is the size of a paperback. Available in colours from blush pink to lush green, it has a full keyboard, wireless connectivity and a built-in camera. A memory card slot acts as a second internal storage device: there is only 12GB on the SSD. Skype, Outlook Express and a few other things are pre-installed.The original Eee PC ran Linux, and one version of the 900 still does. Microsoft basically asked Asus to build the one under review. You can see why. Portable and cheap, it's a transitional device to a day when software will be web-derived rather than internally stored. For the time being, Windows is too clunkily full of cumbersome legacy code to run well on this little thing.Those used to an Apple interface will find it especially frustrating. But not as frustrating as Apple's own failure to bring out a good subnotebook, oscillating between the iPhone and the MacBook. Not the wafer-like MacBook Air, but something that fits in a coat pocket, such as the Toshiba Libretto,  HP Jornada or a souped-up Psion Series 7.There's clearly a demand - I've seen an emulator run Mac OS on the Libretto - and Apple has had a shot at this in the past: in 1997 its doomed Apple eMate 300 was designed as a low-cost laptop for the education market. Right now, there are rumours of a small Apple device larger than the iPhone (the new version of which is out next month) and of an Apple eBook viewer to compete with the Amazon Kindle and the Sony Reader. But we'll have to see.Whatever products come, they do not make everything right. One is reminded of the line from the Communist Manifesto used as the title of Marshall Berman's All That Is Solid Melts Into Air (1982). This brilliant book examines the relationship between technical, economic and social modernity, and artistic or lifestyle responses of modernism.Berman distinguishes between finding "one's world and oneself in perpetual disintegration and renewal, trouble and anguish, ambiguity and contradiction" and somehow making oneself at home in that turbulence, learning "to make its rhythms one's own, to move within its currents in search of the forms of reality, of beauty, of freedom, of justice, that its fervid and perilous flow allows".No computer can teach you how to do that. But Apple always seems to come closest in helping. The Asus Eee PC 900 isn't even in the race.• Stephen Fry will return next month
Blessed with a footballers-only price ticket, the extraordinary new DBS comes growling into the Aston Martin luxury sports car range above the DB9. In other words, it's the next one up from James Bond's. Don't look so sure of yourself now, do you, Daniel Craig, in your fancy trunks?So, let's whack the key in the ignition and get off, shall we? Well, no, let's not, in fact, because for starters it's not a key. It's what Aston Martin is inviting us to join them in calling a "stainless steel and sapphire Emotion Control Unit" - a miniature but weighty glass briquette that slides into a slot on the dashboard, which in turn glows throbbingly red when the engine is ready to fire.Forgive me, but do you suppose any of this is about sex? I wouldn't like to speculate. Do note, however, that, on account of the stainless steel and the sapphire, your Emotion Control Unit is a slippery customer and if you don't time your entry properly, it will slither out, leaving you grubbing around on the floor.Indeed, in the unique kind of blind panic that besets you only when you are, for the first time, behind the wheel of a &pound;160,000 car that belongs to someone else, I managed to insert my Emotion Control Unit the wrong way around, and spent a puzzling few moments diligently stroking the start button and getting, for obvious reasons, no response at all, emotional or otherwise, from the Aston Martin waiting silently below me. Imagine the hot-cheeked shame and the fumbling. There is no agony page that can help with that problem, and I ended up having to tweezer the thing out with the tips of my forefingers.No damage done to the relationship, though, and I was soon away. And what larks. Slightly guilty larks, perhaps. No prizes for emission-control, obviously. Birds were virtually dropping out of trees as I swept past.The engine is a six-litre V12, built at Aston Martin's premises in Cologne where, presumably, each component is hand-crafted by elves. At any rate, I defy anyone - even a cyclist - not to be impressed by the taut, musical bark this car lets out when you start it. They should release it as a single.The clocks are, of course, as beautiful as anything you are likely to see on the mantelpiece of a stately home, with 30mph barely a twitch of the needle on a dial going up way beyond 200mph - where, of course, you could never follow it, unless you were an off-duty policeman.Still, the aluminium and carbon fibre body is a ground-breaking essay in lightweight aerodynamics that racing drivers will thrill to. Yet the car is also virtually idiot-proof to drive, and sleek, thanks to its Adaptive Damping System, which constantly monitors and adjusts the suspension for you, and its Dynamic Stability Control, which you can take off completely - though only if you are mad or otherwise untroubled by the prospect of putting the car on its roof and spoiling the paintwork.The DBS also has 50cm, lightweight wheels and tyres fabricated only for this car (which would probably rule out Kwik Fit when you need a replacement) and also "carbon ceramic matrix brakes", making their first appearance in an Aston Martin road car. Very welcome, I'm sure, though, much more importantly than any of that, you can plumb in your iPod via a cable in the leather centre console. Then again - listen to that rather than the engine? Unlikely.
I want a projector for my fairly bright front room. Everyone says I should get a large plasma screen instead, and refuses to believe the projector will work in the daylight - but I don't like the look of TVs.Using a projector in broad sunshine is never going to give you the best results, but some models are pretty good nonetheless. The Panasonic AE2000 (about &pound;1,900) is highly recommended. If you want a way to hide your box, Philips' Modea LCD TVs turn into a mirror when the screen is off - but the largest size is 42 inches for about &pound;2,000, which is far smaller than your projector could manage.I live in Italy and miss British TV - would a Slingbox on my mum's TV in Ireland be useful?The Slingbox plugs take the signal from a TV and rebroadcast the picture over the internet - allowing you to watch from anywhere in the world. The viewer software can be installed on most computers and even some mobile phones, and there are several models available from about &pound;110. There's one catch: basic models display only whatever channel the TV is switched to at the time, so if your mum wants to watch a different show, there could be family arguments.
In a corner office on Microsoft's leafy, low-rise campus in suburban Seattle, a bespectacled, slightly portly middle-aged man has been packing up his belongings. Bill Gates logged off yesterday after 33 years in day-to-day control of the world's biggest software company.Gates, 52, is retiring in order to spend more time giving away his $58bn fortune. On his last day, he delivered a tearful valedictory address to staff with his righthand man, Microsoft's chief executive, Steve Ballmer, by his side."There won't be a day in my life when I won't be thinking about Microsoft, the great things that we're doing and wanting to help," said Gates, wiping his eyes as a crowd of 830 employees rose to their feet to applaud.Gates will remain part-time chairman of the board and will take on occasional projects - the first of which is to improve Microsoft's web search capabilities. But the one-time boy wonder of the computer world's reign as a technological guru is officially over."There's no way to say thanks to Bill," said Ballmer, who presented Gates with a large scrapbook. "Bill's the founder, Bill's the leader. This is Bill's baby."In a rare period of inactivity, Gates plans a trip to the Beijing Olympics and a spell of leisure over the summer. Then he plans to set up an office in Seattle's Eastside area to delve deeper into the world's medical, biological and environmental challenges for his Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.He told staff that he was making way for new talent: "With my not being here full time there is some opportunity that people will really step up. There's somewhat of a vacuum created there."Gates has been "transitioning" out of Microsoft for two years and to many in the technology industry the company itself has been fading from prominence. It hasn't released a blockbuster product for a decade and its mantle as a leading innovator has been inherited by Google.Yet Rob Helm, research director for an independent consultancy, Directions on Microsoft, says Gates kept a close eye on the company until relatively recently through "Bill G reviews". "A team would go into his office with other interested parties and Gates would grill them about the project they were working on - both from a business and a technical standpoint," says Helm.These sessions, says Helm, could be sorely missed: "The Bill G review was Microsoft's compass to keep all its groups pointing in the same direction. And only he could really do that - only he had that depth of knowledge."Gates's encyclopaedic mind has almost legendary status at Microsoft. He used to take a book when his family took him to watch the University of Washington football team as a child. Aged 11, he won a bet with a local pastor that he could memorise all three chapters of St Matthew's account of the Sermon on the Mount.He established Microsoft with a school friend, Paul Allen, in Albuquerque in 1975. They got their big break five years later by landing a deal to provide operating systems to IBM.But Microsoft's history has been peppered with controversy over its robust attitude to competition. In the 1990s, its practice of embedding internet browsers in operating systems caused a particular furore, making it tough for rivals such as Netscape. The company has repeatedly been accused of making it hard for rivals to make applications compatible with its operating systems."He could be calculating, devious and brutal," says Marc Aronson, author of a soon-to-be-released book, Bill Gates: Up Close. "On the other hand, he's created something - he is a builder."When Microsoft was threatened with a break-up by the US competition authorities and fined by the European commission, Gates's reputation reached a nadir. A US judge described the company in 2000 as "untrustworthy".Since then, Gates has reinvented himself as a philanthropist. "Gates always likes to be at a knife-edge point between absolute success and absolute disaster," says Aronson. "Being the richest, or third-richest, guy in the world is not a challenge any more. But fighting malaria is a challenge because there's a high chance of failing."Some believe Gates is getting out at the right time. Microsoft remains hugely profitable - it is forecast to make earnings of $17bn from revenues of $60bn for the 12 months to June. But its two main products, which command near monopolies, Word and Office, are facing challenges - notably from free word processing and spreadsheet applications hosted on the internet by Google.Critics say that Microsoft has struggled to grasp the trends shaping the latest generation of the internet, dubbed "Web 2.0". The company has resorted to trying to buy its way in by snapping up a stake in Facebook last year and through its recent aborted attempt to buy Yahoo."People who are discounting Microsoft's relevance are making a mistake," says Michael Gartenberg, a technology analyst at Jupiter Research. "People who underestimated Microsoft have discovered their mistake to their cost."Gates is likely to spend more time with his three children at his mansion overlooking Lake Washington, but the business world hasn't seen the last of him.
MondayCivilization Revolution a revelationIs UK development in trouble?TuesdayThe seven most important tennis games of all timePS3 cost Sony 3.3d dollars - and it may struggle to earn the money backDiablo 3 announcement this weekend?An Umbrella ChronicleWednesdayWikigame: catching up on the description drivePSP phone for Christmas 2009ThursdayMetal Gear, Okami and Crisis Core reviewsThe Hot Coffee settlement: no one caresKing of Kong: the winnersPS3 gets a LifeFridayWikigame object watch360 now winning in Europe. Does anyone care?Because Wii fans are weird and differentThe Friday question: around the world in eighty games
PC users would be dumbfounded if PhotoShop required a different mouse from Microsoft Word, or whatever, but games console users could run into a similar sort of problem. In an editorial inGamesIndustry.biz, Rob Fahey confesses to four plastic guitars: "two Guitar Hero (PS2) axes, a third-party Guitar Hero (PS2) wireless controller, and my own rhythm-action pride and joy, a ridiculously overpriced Guitar Freaks arcade-style controller." And he expects it to get worse:As it stands, you can't use your Guitar Hero axe on Rock Band on PS3, or vice versa. Guitar Hero axes on the 360 work in Rock Band, but Rock Band's guitar controller doesn't return the favour. When Guitar Hero World Tour comes out later this year, bringing with it drums and vocals, it seems unlikely that the kits will be cross-compatible -- and Konami will add its own flavour of peripheral with Rock Revolution.Clearly there's a difference between system-wide peripherals that should work with everything, and program-specific peripherals that are bundled with a particular title, but it's not clear how you get between the two. For example, you'd expect a steering wheel to work with most if not all driving games on your console, so why can't a plastic guitar do the same?People who like driving games will typically buy several programs from different companies. But people who have bought one plastic guitar are probably less likely, not more likely, to buy a program that requires a different peripheral. Fahey says:This is certainly a big issue. In fact, it's an issue so big that it threatens to topple over and crush the burgeoning success of this new market sector, by splintering off the installed base of peripherals and seriously limiting the success of all entrants to the market.For those companies taking part -- primarily EA, Activision and Konami -- the temptation will always be to avoid compatibility and try to lock consumers into their products. This approach doesn't just do a massive disservice to consumers, however. It also seriously limits the potential profitability of the products in question, restricts further market growth and ultimately, damages everyone's bottom line.
The Guardian has an ongoingFuture of Journalismconference/project, to which professor/columnist/bloggerJeff Jarvishas contributed on the future of the Guardian. There's a good account of this on our PDA digital content blog atJeff Jarvis on 10 questions we should be asking now, along with links to a couple of video clips.
You may already know that you can buy land on the moon. That is, you can lay claim to it, and there are people who are perfectly happy to sell you a certificate which confirms that through them, you have laid claim to some small part of theSea of Tranquillity— perhaps even that bit where Neil Armstrong declared it was a giant leap for mankind. There's even someone, I believe, who will sell you plots of "land" on the sun itself (which I think brings in a new definition of "land", since even to define what constitutes the surface of the sun is a whole branch of scientific philosophy).Not that it will do you any good, because you're never going to get there (trust me, you're not), and there's no chance that you'll ever be able to prove ownership. But it makes people feel nice when these "plots" get bought. Especially the people "selling" the "land".I wonder if someone at the internet oversight company Icann bought some land on the moon for their anniversary and thought "now, that's a good idea". No other way I can think of to explain thesudden rushto turn the internet from a place where you had a limited number of domain suffixes, which made it simple enough for people to understand and for companies and organisations to check that they weren't being impersonated, into one where basically anybody and anything at all can get whatever suffix they feel like.Even Icann's head Paul Twomeydescribedit as "a massive increase in the 'real estate' of the Internet".It's weird. As our regular columnist Seth Finkelstein hasrepeatedlypointed out, the arguments against the ".xxx" suffix (regularly touted as a red-light district for the web) are simple: it wouldn't restrict porn to that area, and it would simply be a bonanza for domain name registrars and con artists or cybersquatters looking to make a quick buck.Look, after all, at how ownership of perhaps the most obvious domain, sex.com, turned into adecade-long struggle for ownership. Now multiply that by a few million. Is Icann suddenly into enriching lawyers and domain name registrars?The difference of course between plots on the moon and those on the web is that you can visit the ones on the web. Yet the pointlessness mirrors that of having moon plots. The places where you can go proliferates. But there won't actually be any morestuffout there. It's not as thoughthe internet is too big. It's not as though we've somehow reached the limit where we can't add anything more to the existing domains. (We have this clever thing called a "web page", and you can add an unlimited number to a site.)No, Icann's move demonstrates that it has been — as the lingo puts it — "captured" by the business interests that circulate it: domain name registrars (who need to clean up their own house, for instance by preventing thetargeting of expiring domains for phishing and spammingbefore they get into registering new top-level domains) and cities and councils seeking more tourism. Haven't the latter heard of search engine optimisation — meaning that people find you through search, not through thinking "I know! I'll look at greatsightseeingin.berlin and then qualityhotelsin.berlin and cheapflightsto.berlin! Problem solved!"All a dream, my friends, all a dream. Let's hope that sense prevails instead at Icann, and someone lobbies against this. The trouble is, who's going to lobby against more domains? Let's hope that businesses and banks (who have a lot to lose from this) get their act together before 2009, when this mad plan is intended for implementation.Then again, Icann could always go for a two-for-one deal: buy a new top-level suffix, get a plot of land on the sun. Or buy the name of a distant star. Or a comet. Hell, it would make sense. They're all as marginally useful as each other. Which is to say, not at all.Except you know what will really happen. People presently selling plots of land on the moon will also sell domains on .moon. There's one born every minute...
Okay, this is a slightly different one, but it might be fun. I was watching a travel programme this morning, wondering if anyone had ever been inspired to visit a specific location because it appeared in a videogame. And this got me thinking, how many real-life towns, cities or regions have actually featured in games?Of course, most settings are fictional - either complete works of fantasy, or based loosely on geographic types. But a few give themselves a real-life environment. So which have been most memorable? And have any made you more interested in the location being featured?The best thing about The Getaway was its extraordinary recreation of central London, while the Tokyo of Metropolis Street Racer took me back to me single trip to the city's marvelous Game Show. There must be others - so see if you can think of them.And the fun doesn't stop there. I'vecreated a Google Mapso you can add your suggestions! Together we can create a valuable resource for videogame-obsessed travelers! Or just fritter away Friday afternoon on another hair-brain scheme while your company goes down the pan.
What's the best way to cater for a new and unfamiliar demographic? Create a new sub-brand of course! That's clearly what the industry is thinking right now as publishers scramble to understand an audience that laps up titles like Carnival Games and Sports Island with masochistic abandon.Last week, Ubisoft announced its new Play Zone label, dedicated to mini-game challenges for family audiences. The first title will be Sports Party, a collection of nine sports mini-games that can be played head-to-head or cooperatively. And today, EA announcedAll Play, a range of sports titles, based on its key annual franchises. Madden NFL 09 All-Play, Tiger Woods PGA TOUR 09 All-Play, NBA LIVE 09 All-Play and FIFA 09 All-Play will be the first additions. According to the press release, each one is, 'designed for social play and featuring unique controls, distinct presentation and a style of play that is inviting to players of all skill levels'.It's interesting that companies are making a real effort to meet Wii half-way - we're often going to see the same old games slithering across, but at least all this brand segregation means that the unique qualities of the console are being taken seriously. Compare that to the PSP, which has been hobbled by unsympathetic conversions, and its clear how vital Wii is to the current generation.The only question is whether EA is tryingtoohard to reduce its key titles to family-friendly knockabouts. Pro Evo has gone down reasonably well, by modifying the familiar recipe rather than stripping it to its foundations and re-building as a Wiimote-wafting exercise for grandma. Still I like the sound of FIFA, which lets you pitch your Mii against caricature versions of Rooney, Ronaldo, etc.Anyway, here's all the press bumph on the All Play line-up:Madden NFL 09 All-PlayMadden NFL 09 All-Play features fun, approachable and innovative gameplay by unleashing the power of the Wii Remote through the all-new EA SPORTS Call Your Shots feature. Call Your Shots allows the player to create his or her own plays on the fly and direct receivers where they should run. Gamers of all skill levels can also enjoy an all-new fast paced 5-on-5 mode which has a reduced field length and big head NFL players. Experienced Madden players or rookies to the game can utilize the all-new play calling system. No matter the skill level, players can be competitive with three playbooks to choose from, ranging from Easy to Advanced.Tiger Woods PGA TOUR 09 All-PlayTiger Woods PGA TOUR 09 All-Play features personalized coaching from Tiger Woods' personal coach, Hank Haney and all types of gamers can pick up this game and have a fun and challenging experience. Tiger Woods PGA TOUR 09 All-Play features new graphics and user interface while also incorporating interactive and social mini-games. The standing swing control, the most "true to life" golf mechanic you can find in any videogame, truly takes advantage of the Wii console's unique control scheme. The game will also feature online play for the first time with Simultaneous Online Play that allows up to four players the ability to play each hole at the same time.NBA LIVE 09 All-PlayStep onto the court and into the fun with a unique basketball experience designed exclusively for the Wii. NBA LIVE 09 All-Play offers more action, more often, with an over-the-top basketball experience designed with everyone in mind. Improved responsiveness and more control options make this game easier and more fun to play than ever before.FIFA 09 All-PlayStep onto the pitch and play a unique soccer experience exclusively for the Wii. Enjoy FIFA Soccer 09 All-Play one of two ways--a Wii-specific take on the classic '11 vs. 11' simulation or over-the-top '8 vs. 8' arcade action. Play with your Mii™ alongside your heroes Ronaldinho, Wayne Rooney and other soccer stars created as customized characters in an arcade version of the beautiful game. Steal the ball and make outrageous shots by simply waving your Wii Remote. You've never played soccer like this before! Plus, play Footii Party Games called Table Soccer and Boot It for more great fun with family and friends.
It's a fair bet that either Quanta or Compal made your portable computer, because these two firms manufacture systems for HP, Dell, Apple, Acer, Lenovo and Toshiba, and according to DisplaySearch, reported in Taiwan'sDigitimes, these two have 55% of the Tawanese OEM market.Well, they manufacture some of them, but not necessarily all of them. Dell apparently sources portables from Quanta, Compal, Wistron and Pegatron, as well as having its own factories. Digitimes says:The main customers of Quanta, in order of descending volume, were HP, Dell, Apple, Acer and Lenovo. The main customers for Compal were HP, Dell, Acer and Toshiba. The main customers of Inventec were HP and Toshiba. HP, Acer and Dell were the main customers of Wistron. The main OEM customers of Pegatron were Asustek and Toshiba, according to DisplaySearch.A lot of manufacturers don't like to talk about this aspect of the business, for obvious reasons. Many years ago I was given a tour of a portable PC factory but only after agreeing not to mention any brand names. A very big company didn't want it known that its expensive top-brand machines were coming off the same production line as those of a low-end rival.One thing that struck me at the time was that there were about 20 different keyboards being fitted, partly because of the different layouts required by different European countries. "Ah," I said, "in that case it would be pretty easy to include aDvorakoption, wouldn't it?" Well, it would be if you could ship one global Dvorak layout, they said, but not if you had to provide 20 national Dvorak options. In any case, there was no demand....
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
A few weeks agoSony were telling usthat the PS3 had "overtaken" the 360 in Europe. Now Microsoftare claimingthat in Europe the 360 is, "at least, if not more than, three quarters of a million ahead of PS3". Of course, neither Microsoft or Sony mention the Wii which has comprehensively outsold both. But seriously though, do sales figures actually matter to punters? I mean do you honestly care who is winning the console "war"? And if so why? But let's face it nothing can match the ferocity of the Speccy/C64 playground battles of the '80s. C64 all the way, obviously.
In a corner office on Microsoft's leafy, low-rise campus in suburban Seattle, a bespectacled, slightly portly middle-aged man has been packing up his belongings. Bill Gates logs off today after 33 years in day-to-day control of the world's biggest software company.Gates, 52, is retiring in order to spend more time giving away his $58bn (£29bn) fortune. In a glossy video produced by Microsoft to mark the occasion, he expressed quiet satisfaction: "We've really achieved the ideal of what I wanted Microsoft to become."Later today, Gates will deliver a valedictory address to the software company's 90,000 employees with his right-hand man,Microsoft's chief executive Steve Ballmer, by his side. Staff around the world will watch via a webcast.Gates will remain part-time chairman of the board. But the reign of the one-time boy wonder of the computer world is officially over.In a rare period of inactivity, Gates plans a trip to the Beijing Olympics and will be enjoying a spell of leisure over the summer. Then, he plans to set up an office in Seattle's Eastside area to delve deeper into the world's medical, biological and environmental challenges for his Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation."I'll miss doing the work here," Gates told reporters this week. "This is a big milestone."He has been gradually "transitioning" out of Microsoft for two years and to many in the technology industry, the company itself has been fading from prominence - it hasn't released a blockbuster product for a decade and its mantle as a leading-edge innovator has been inherited by Google.Yet Rob Helm, research director for an independent consultancy, Directions on Microsoft, says Gates kept a close eye on events at the company until relatively recently through internal sessions known as "Bill G reviews" for which staff prepared frenetically."A team would go into his office with other interested parties and Gates would grill them about the project they were working on - both from a business and a technical standpoint," says Helm.These sessions, says Helm, could be sorely missed: "The Bill G review was Microsoft's compass to keep all its groups pointing in the same direction - and only he could really do that, only he had that depth of knowledge."Gates's encyclopaedic mind has almost mythical status at Microsoft. Bookish from an early age, he used to take a book when his family took him to watch the Washington Huskies college football team as a child. Aged 11, he won a bet with a local pastor that he could memorise all three Biblical chapters of the "sermon on the mount", word for word.He established Microsoft with a schoolfriend, Paul Allen, in Albuquerque in 1975 to write basic programs for early incarnations of computers. They won their big break five years later by landing a deal to provide operating systems to IBM.But Microsoft's history has been peppered with controversy over its robust attitude to competition. In the 1990s, its practice of embedding internet browsers in operating systems caused a particular furore, making it tough for rivals such as Netscape to lure customers with rival software. The company has repeatedly been accused of making it hard for rival developers to make applications compatible with its operating systems."He's a man who could be calculating, devious and brutal," says Marc Aronson, author of a soon-to-be-released book, Bill Gates: Up Close. "On the other hand, he's created something - he is a builder."When Microsoft was threatened witha break-up by the US competition authoritiesand subsequently fined by the European commission, Gates' reputation reached a nadir. A US judge described the company in 2000 as "untrustworthy", although the case was settled when the newly elected Bush administration adopted a more laissez-faire approach.Since then, Gates has reinvented himself as a philanthropist. With the help of $30bn from Warren Buffett, his foundation funds healthcare, agricultural development and education in developing countries."Gates always likes to be at a knife-edge point between absolute success and absolute disaster," says Aronson. "Being the richest, or third richest, guy in the world is not a challenge anymore. But fighting malaria is a challenge because there's a high chance of failing."Some believe Gates is getting out of Microsoft at the right time. The company remains enormously profitable - it is forecast to make earnings of $17bn from revenues of $60bn for the 12 months to June. But its two key products which command near monopolies in their fields, Word and Office, are facing challenges - most notably from free-of-charge word processing and spreadsheet applications hosted on the internet by Google.Certain analysts suggest that Google is throwing down the gauntlet in the same way that Netscape posed a threat to Microsoft's Internet Explorer during the "browser wars" of the late 1990s.Michael Gartenberg, a technology analyst at Jupiter Research, says: "Bill basically started and then redefined an entire industry, then went on from there to redefine philanthropy. But the real challenge is going to be where Microsoft goes from here."Critics say that Microsoft has struggled to grasp the trends shaping the latest generation of the internet, dubbed "Web 2.0". The company has resorted to trying to buy its way in by snapping up a stake in Facebook last year and through its recentaborted attempt to buy Yahoo."People who are discounting Microsoft's relevance are making a mistake," says Gartenberg, who argues that the company remains a formidable competitor. "People who underestimated Microsoft in the past have discovered their mistake to their cost."Gates is likely to spend more time with his three young children at his 40,000sq ft mansion overlooking Lake Washington, which boasts a private library and an art deco theatre and where guests have included the Chinese president Hu Jintao.But the business world hasn't quite seen the last of Gates. He has put money into in a start-up called Intellectual Ventures which is developing a "clean" type of nuclear reactor which would use fuels other than enriched uranium.For future investments, he says he is only interested in "dramatic" scientific breakthroughs which would tie in with his broader philanthropic approach of "improving the state of mankind"."If somebody says to me 'OK, we can do new cookie stores and we can make zillions', I have no interest in spending a minute on that," he told his home town newspaper, the Seattle Post-Intelligencer. "I hope somebody goes and does that, but that's not for me."
Microsoft's Bill Gates will mark the end of an era today as he leaves the software company he founded 33 years ago and heads into a life of full-time philanthropy.This afternoon, at the company's sprawling campus outside of Seattle, the 52-year-old billionaire will complete the final stretch in his long handover of power, in order to focus on the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation, the world's largest philanthropic exercise.Gates will retain a largely ceremonial role as Microsoft's chairman, but leaves behind a huge legacy and a genuine claim to have been one of the most influential businessmen of the 20th century.Gates's critics are quick to jump on Microsoft's perceived lack of innovation and the company's regular run-ins with governments over its domination of the industry — but when the company emerged in 1975, few could have expected that it could achieve its mission of getting a PC in every office and home.Microsoft's success on that front — achieved through canny deal-making and a voracious appetite for business — pushed the company's shares through the roof, helping Gates become a billionaire by the age of 31.It has not always been an easy ride, however. An ongoing antitrust case with the US government in the late 1990s seemed destined to end in the company being broken up — until the arrival of George W Bush in the White House brought a fresh deal which saved Microsoft from potential oblivion.Gates leaves behind a team of three senior executives charged with taking the company into the future: chief executive Steve Ballmer, the close friend who was best man at Gates's wedding; chief research and strategy officer Craig Mundie; and Ray Ozzie, who was brought in to take on the role of chief software architect.Between them, the trio shoulder the burden of Microsoft's 90,000 employees and increasing competition from younger, more mobile rivals such as Google.How they cope with that challenge remains to be seen, but Gates will no longer be there to act as the figurehead: instead, his fresh targets include funding projects in the developing world, the eradication of malaria and work on an Aids vaccine.
Asus has launched "the ultimate portable high definition multimedia laptop" with a terabyte of hard disk space (ie twohalf-gig500GB drives) that can store about 358 movies, says the company. It also has four built-in Altec Lansing speakers and a subwoofer, so your Blu-ray movies and broadcast TV programmes should sound OK. (A BD of Batman Begins is supplied.)The M70 has a 17 inch WUXGA widescreen that displays 1920 x 1200 pixels, so it can handle HD movies.Asus announced the system inApril, and it already offers similar X70 and G70 portables. None of them would be mistaken for an Eee PC....
Over atWikigame Central, I received word from regular DennisChow (he's not regular, but his involvement is. Oh, you know what I mean...) that he's been storing all of the renegade Spaceship! objects on their own special page, cleverly titledObject Watch. And so, rather than direct you to rooms for your contributions, I'm going to list a couple of objects every day. If you're so-inclined, you can wallow in object descriptiveness of your own accordhere.So let's kick off today with some guns.There's arackin thearmourywhich needs describing. If you want to add your BFG to the mix, headhere. Don't forget to describe it and explain what happens when it's manipulated (a big boom, I assume).Meanwhile, over in theCaptain's Quarters- the first location in the game - there's arogue chairthat's been left in the cold. Is it aChesterfieldor one ofthose uncomfortable onesyou sat on in primary school? Headhereto give it some meat.If this puts you in the mood for contributions but you're time-strapped, head to theQuick Helppage and see what you can add.
What's your favourite piece of technology?My 1953 Crosley Mahogany F-17 Tosh TV. I bought it from a flea market when I was 23, about a week before I got married. My cousin is a TV engineer and he reconditioned it for me and keeps it all spanking new, so it's actually in great nick. It does feel almost sacrilegious to watch crap on it like Big Brother — I feel as if I should only watchDennis Potterplays on it.How has it improved your life?All my pals are shelling out for £5,000 television sets that are just getting thinner and thinner; I've gone for something that's as fat as a TV can be. The only small thing is the screen. The television itself is colossal. It's the size of a car. It's saved me a fortune because it cost me 70 quid years ago and it still works. And I'm going to get more out of it, being a Scotsman.When was the last time you used it, and what for?The last time I stuck it on was to watchDoctor Who. BBC1 is the only channel you can get a proper picture on, so I try to work my viewing around that.What additional features would you add if you could?It would be quite nice if it had a video recording facility built in or a DVD player, but I'm quite happy with my one channel. Any more than that's an extravagance ...Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Actually, it probably will be because of digital. The good thing is, if you're Scottish, you don't really live past about 40 anyway — apparently our diets are so bad up here and our drinking habits, the TV will outlive me. I'll go before the analogue does.What one tip would you give to non-Crosley users?Buy one immediately.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm probably the worst aspects of both. In a technical sense I'm certainly a luddite, but in every single other capacity in my life I'm a nerd.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I think I spent about £250 on a computer once. I'm still using it.Mac or PC?I'm not really quite sure of the difference. I don't even know the name of my computer, I just use it as a typewriter. My wife prints things for me and my daughter sends my scripts to Marvel for me because I don't know how to do attachments. She's nine now — we gave her life, I feel as if she should do something. Sending those attachments seems a small price to pay.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?Something dad-like and embarrassing, like Burt Bacharach or John Barry. I'm big on 60s soundtracks.Will robots rule the world?I hope so, because they always look quite benevolent.What piece of technology would you most like to own?The Starship Enterprise would be good, or the Death Star. It just seems like it would be a good place to hang out with pals.Mark Millaris a writer for Marvel and the creator of theWantedseries of comic books. Afilmloosely based on the series is now showing in cinemas worldwide.
For more than a decade the internet has been a world of dotcoms, dotnets and dotcodotuks. That could all change, however, with a new scheme to liberalise the way websites are named, creating a whole new generation of addresses such as .bank, .sport and .news.The group which oversees the way the internet is organised yesterday announced its plans to open up the so-called "top-level domain" names to cope with a variety of new options, potentially creating a new internet goldrush as buyers bid to register the most popular names.The decision, passed unanimously by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann), was described by the organisation's president, Paul Twomey, as "the biggest change to the way people find each other on the internet since its inception"."Apart from the .com, .net or .org, 1.3 billion web users will be able from early 2009 to acquire generic addresses by lodging common words such as .love, .hate or .city, or proper names," he said.The plans have been incubating for some time, with Icann spending more than three years and $10m (&pound;5m) putting the technology in place to support the change in the system.At first it is likely these new suffixes will be limited to certain businesses and other major organisations such as city councils. Officials in Berlin are among those who have vociferously campaigned for the new rules, believing that selling .berlin web addresses would have a positive impact for tourism in the German capital.But others are concerned that opening up the system could lead to more cybersquatting, where profiteers register brand names to make money off their popularity, or even make it easier for criminals to pose as banks or other legitimate organisations."If the domain name system is completely relaxed, cybersquatting will turn into a far greater problem, with companies struggling to protect their websites and intellectual property," said Thomas Herbert of Hostway, one of the world's largest web hosting companies."For example, Amazon would have to register many more domain names including Amazon.amazon, amazon.shopping, amazon.electronics. The list is practically endless, and the net result would be a more chaotic and disorganised web."All applications will need to be approved by Icann itself, but buying the right to use one of these new names will not be cheap.Some are expected to cost in the region of &pound;250,000, leading some to question whether companies will have enough funds to protect themselves from impostors."It can be argued that the expansion of available suffixes is the equivalent of opening a can of worms in terms of online infringement," said Jonathan Robinson of domain management specialist NetNames. "With varying fee estimates, it could well turn out to be an untenable marketing expense for some."There are other potential consequences which critics say are cause for concern.  Not only could the new system deal a blow to the reputation of recent new domains such as .mobi and .eu, which will now have to compete with hundreds of others, but it could even damage the economies of some small countries which have become reliant on their internet-based business. The Pacific island nation of Tuvalu, for example, has made substantial profits from reselling its .tv domain name, which could be brought to an end if purchasers switch to a cheaper alternative.The announcement could even resurrect plans to install a new .xxx domain for adult websites, a scheme which was scotched several years ago after protests by religious groups who feared that it would legitimise pornography.What's in a name?Sex.com$14m (&pound;7m)The world's most valuable domain name was fraudently transferred from entrepreneur Gary Kremen's name in the 1990s, but eventually returned after a court battle a decade later. The reports are disputed, but it is believed Kremen earned between $11m and $14m when he sold up in 2006.Porn.com$9.5mAnother website targeted at adult entertainment. Failed when it went on sale last year.Business.com$7.5mAfter its sale in 1999, this retained the Guinness World Record for the most expensive domain name in history for seven years, largely thanks to the dotcom crash.Diamonds.com$7.5mOwned by a jewellery retailer in Las Vegas, which now sells high-endvaluables over the internetBeer.com$7mTargeted the internet's natural audience by turning this domain name into a lads' magazine-style websiteBest of the rest:AsSeenOnTV.com$5.1mShop.com$3.5mAltaVista.com$3.3mLoans.com$3mWine.com$2.9m
Sony plans to reach out to consumers in emerging economies as part of a growth drive after several years of sweeping change and job cuts, it said yesterday.Chief executive Sir Howard Stringer said Sony would invest &yen;1.8 trillion (&pound;8.6bn) over the next three years in new technology and expanding beyond the traditional markets of Japan, North America and Europe. He said the company aimed to return to profitability in its games and TV businesses this financial year."Our mission is simply to be the leading global provider of networked consumer electronics and entertainment," Stringer said at a news conference. "Sony will be united. Sony will succeed." During three years of painful restructuring under the Welshman, Sony has reduced its global workforce by 10,000, closed 11 factories and sold &yen;120bn of assets in an attempt to return to profitability.Revenue has risen 23% and operating income 157% during the period, while last year's flotation of its financial arm raised &yen;334bn.Stringer, Sony's first foreign chief executive, declared his drastic cost-cutting a success. "Our job, however, is not complete," he said. "The potential for even better financial performance remains."The slimmer "Sony United" envisioned by Stringer would "establish a reputation for software and services that matches our reputation for hardware and content," he said. After a slow start to its flat-panel TV business, Sony said it would aim to bring the sector back into profitability this year and overtake South Korea's Samsung to capture the biggest global share of the liquid-crystal display TV market.Sony also revealed an ambitious investment plan for the fast-growing economies of Brazil, Russia, India and China, aiming to double annual sales in those countries to &yen;2 trillion by March 2011. "Sony believes the largest growth opportunities exist outside Japan, North America and Europe," it said.The company said it would expand the networking capabilities of its electronics devices to set it apart from its rivals.This autumn it will deliver feature films and TV shows directly to Bravia TV owners in the US rather than via cable or satellite networks, an industry first that Stringer called "a glimpse into the future of home entertainment". Movie downloads for the PlayStation 3 game console will start in the US in the summer.It has not all been good news for Stringer, appointed three years ago to shake Sony out of its complacency after it lost ground in its core electronics arm to rivals in Japan, South Korea and the US.After a delayed launch PlayStation 3 continues to eat into profits because it is being sold below cost price. There has also been criticism that Sony has failed to produce a gadget during Stringer's tenure that has caught the public imagination in the way Apple has with the iPod and iPhone.Stringer cited Sony's OLED (organic light emitting diode) TVs and its plans to expand network-enabled devices as proof it was committed to innovation. He damned his rival with faint praise: "Apple is a marvellous company, but it is a boutique. We are a giant conglomerate."
Sony Computer Entertainment chief Kaz Hirai has unveiled a new PS3 service today. Entitled Life With PlayStation, it's a worldwide news and weather application, allowing users to browse location-based information using a 3D globe display. Imagine Google Maps mixed with Wii's news and weather channels and you get the picture. Speaking of Wii, Hirai has already caused consternation among Nintendo fans by claiming, "It's only the PS3 that can provide such a unique experience."However, it seems the generic news service is only the start of the Life story.Quoted on Next Gen, he adds, "In the future, we'll build a system that can virtually present stored photos or movies according to recorded time and place, allowing users with their friends and family to enjoy them visually in chronological order". There's also talk of dynamic advertising and paid-for downloads.With its community service, Home, set to go into open beta this Christmas, it looks like Sony is attempting to provide a complete web 2.0 solution on the PS3 platform. It's a nifty idea - many home computer users are utterly bewildered by the sheer number of social networking, social bookmarking, content-sharing and news services. I know I am. PS3 could well offer a one-stop shop for creating and maintaining social networks and news feeds. As long as all your mates have PlayStations, of course.And although the Wii servicesmusthave provided some inspiration for Life, I think the success of the Folding@Home application may have played a vital role too. Loads of people I know love the globe display that features as part of the distributed computing project - all it does is show the vicinity of every internet-connected PS3 on the planet, but there's something hypnotic and compelling about the real-time connection it engenders to the rest of the planet. Life is a natural extension to this.There's no word yet on release date. Expect more details at E3.
T-Mobile is using tonight's Euro 2008 semi-final clash between Spain and Russia to launch a £17m campaign with a pledge to guarantee a better deal on minutes than any other company.The TV campaign, which will break at 8.30pm on ITV1 during the second Euro 2008 semi-final, will also see the introduction of a new T-Mobile strapline: "Life's for Sharing".T-Mobile's new strapline replaces "Simply closer", which the mobile operator has been using for the last 18 months.The company has created a series of TV ads guaranteeing to offer consumers more minutes for £30 than rival mobile operators O2, Orange, Vodafone or 3.T-Mobile's first ad features an archaeologist, who instead of preserving artefacts is destroying Roman vases because he is desperately, and unsuccessfully, hunting for "more minutes" than the company offers.A second TV ad features a medium at a séance searching for minutes in the afterlife."Everyone loves a bargain and people will often search high and low to find the best deal. The creative brings that to life," said Paul Silburn, creative partner at T-Mobile's ad agency, Saatchi &amp; Saatchi.T-Mobile said the new "pledge" will "put an end to the tiresome search for the best value mobile deals".The TV campaign will be supported by national press, online and outdoor ads, including "station domination" at Oxford Circus from June 30.T-Mobile's new guarantee is available to all new and existing Solo 30 and Combi 30 customers signing up to a contract of £30 per month.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
A hearty congratulations to the winners of ourKing of Kong competition. We asked for your favourite retro gaming pics, and don't you know that our inbox was awash in early '80s glory. We were giving away 5 copies of the arcade competition documentary King of Kong - a triumph - and without further ado, the lucky quintet are:Adam Kooyer(for the first-hand Polaroid of retro-ness)Graeme (aka meepmeep)(for thegames-meets-Edward Hopperhigh art)James Mitchell(for theLego Duck Hunt)Jake Milner(forPunch Boutfrom the classic PBF)Kay Fitzpatrick(for reminding us whatgaming adsusedto look like)Congratulations and your DVDs will be winging their ways to you soon.
The internet is set for a radical shake-up after the organisation that oversees website names gave the green light to plans for a new way of creating web addresses.The decision means that as well as millions of existing website addresses which end in .com or .co.uk, surfers will also be able to choose from sites with suffixes such as .bank, .sport or .bet.A marathon meeting of the board of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann), which administers the development of the internet, ended in unanimous approval for the introduction of a new set of "top level" website addresses, bringing nearly three years of debate and planning to an end.The process, which will begin in 2009, was described by the organisation's chairman, Paul Twomey, as "the biggest change to the way people find each other on the internet since its inception".At first it is likely that new suffixes will be limited to businesses and other major organisations such as city councils, with cities such as New York and Berlin keen to create a whole selection of .nyc and .berlin addresses.Some are concerned that opening the system up could encourage cybersquatting – where people unfairly register brand names in order to make money – or encourage criminals, who could find it easier to pose as banks or other legitimate organisations."If the domain name system is completely relaxed, cybersquatting will turn into a far greater problem, with companies struggling to protect their websites and intellectual property," said Thomas Herbert of Hostway, one of the world's largest web hosting companies."For example, Amazon would have to register many more domain names including Amazon.amazon, amazon.shopping, amazon.electronics. The list is practically endless, and the net result would be a much more chaotic and disorganised web."However, buying one of this new generation of website addresses will not be cheap – some could cost as much as £250,000 – and applications would need to be approved by Icann.
No, but it's an amusing idea.Next Big Thing Awardis featuring Table Tennis Triples as a 2008 finalist, and you can see a bit of a three v three (ie six person) game in a video on the site. However, the table does not have to be circular, and you can put the modules together in other ways -- as above.The site says: "Modular Table Tennis System (MTTS) allows 1-12 or more players to play table tennis with exciting new game configurations." Quite how it works with only one player is not explained. Perhaps you have to be an expert at lobs and have very fast legs.On the other hand, there could be a future for a Wii version....
Sony will reach out to consumers in emerging economies as part of a growth drive after several years of sweeping changes and job cuts.Chief executive Sir Howard Stringer announced today that Sony will invest ¥1.8 trillion (£8.6bn) over the next three years on new technology and expanding its business beyond the traditional markets of Japan, North America and Europe. He also said the company is aiming to return to profitability in its game and TV businesses this fiscal year."Our mission is simply to be the leading global provider of networked consumer electronics and entertainment," Stringer said at a news conference. "Sony will be united. Sony will succeed."Duringthree years of painful restructuringunder Stringer, Sony has reduced its global workforce by 10,000, closed 11 manufacturing sites and sold off ¥120bn in assets in an attempt to return to profitability.Revenue has risen 23% and operating income by 157% during the period, while last year's IPO of its financial arm raised ¥334bn.The Welshman, Sony's first foreign CEO, declared his drastic cost-cutting regime a success. "Our job, however, is not complete," he said. "The potential for even better financial performance remains."The new, slimmed down "Sony United" envisioned by Stringer would "establish a reputation for software and services that matches our reputation for hardware and content", he said.After a slow start to its flat-panel TV business, Sony said it would aim to bring the sector back into profitability this year and overtake Samsung to capture the biggest global share of global liquid-crystal display TV market.The firm also unveiled an ambitious investment plan for the fast-growing "Bric" economies of Brazil, Russia, India and China, with the aim of doubling annual sales in those countries to ¥2trn by March 2011."Sony believes that the largest growth opportunities exist outside the traditional markets of Japan, North America and Europe," it said.Sony also announced plans to expand networking capabilities among its electronic devices in an attempt to set it apart from its rivals.This autumn it will start delivering feature films and TV programmes directly to Bravia TV owners in the US rather via cable or satellite networks, an industry first that Stringer called "a glimpse into the future of home entertainment".The first feature film to be made available will be Sony Pictures' Hancock, starring Will Smith, which Bravia owners will be able to download via the internet before it is available as a DVD.Movie downloads for Sony's PlayStation 3 game console will also start in the US in the summer, with a similar service for Japan and Europe to come at a later date, said Kazuo Hirai, the head of Sony's video game unit.Takeover target?It has not all been good news for Stringer, who was appointed three years ago to drag the once all-conquering firm out of its complacency as it lost ground in its core electronics division to rivals in Japan, South Korea and the US.After a launch delayed by technical glitches, the PlayStation 3 console continues to eat into profits because it is being sold at below cost price.Sony also fell short of its aim of achieving a 5% operating profit margin by 2008.Its new pledge to raise its return on equity (ROE) to 10% in three years is almost double the level of the past five years, which at about 6% is well below the average returns of its rivals Samsung and Nintendo.Analysts said failure to boost its ROE would force it to relinquish its place as a global leader and fuel speculation of a possible takeover bid."The target is a sign of Sony's sense of crisis that it could really become a takeover target if it doesn't lift its ROE to at least over 10%," said Mitsushige Akino of Ichiyoshi Investment Management.There has also been criticism that Sony has so far failed to produce a gadget during Stringer's tenure that has caught the public imagination in the way Apple has with the iPod and iPhone, which will be released in Japan next month.But Stringer said Sony's new OLED - organic light emitting diode - TVs and plans to expand network-enabled devices across the board were proof that it was committed to innovation."If you're looking for exotic, look at the network-enabled world," he said, before damning his rival with faint praise. "Apple is a marvellous company, but it is a boutique. We are a giant conglomerate."Sony's announcement came just after the stock market closed, with the firm's shares ending the day up by 2.9% at ¥5,060.
So here's one for you: how much storage do you have at home? It's a question that I'm raising because I'm preparing a piece for Tech Weekly (youknow, the podcast) about our growing appetite for storing stuff.The only qualification is that it should be magnetic or Flash-based; DVDs and CDs for backup don't really count. (Though if you want to be thorough and include those separately, you're welcome.)My own audit: own computer: 250 GB wife's computer: 120 GB children's computer (passed on from parents): 20 GB NAS drive: 250 GB two Firewire drives: 40 + 20 GB iPods: 40 + 5 + 4 + 1 + 1 GB Sky+: 40 GB Flash memory sticks lurking around: 8 + 4 + 1 + 1 ...all of which brings us to a grand total of 805 GB.Now, some of that storage is duplicating stuff that's already elsewhere (the NAS drive and the iPods could be counted as backup) which would take it down to "original" storage of 504 GB.The question then being: how do you back it up?Doyou back it up? Do you have enough space to back up what you need to back up? (It's hard, though not impossible, to back up a Sky+ drive - one of the simplest ways is to play the content into something like theDisgo Media Bank, which I've been trying out; but that's a real-time, or slower, process.)OK, so tell us how prolific your storage is, and how close to the not-enough-backup space you live..
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Science is about identifying causation, and usually involves constructing a hypothesis (or mental model) that you can test. The model may be incomplete or wrong, but still, you end up knowing more than you did before. Following up an ETech talk by Peter Norvig, Google's research director, Wired's Chris Anderson (ofLong Tailfame) wonders whether this approach (or model) of science is on the way out. InThe End of Theory: The Data Deluge Makes the Scientific Method Obsolete, an introductory piece with a dozen supporting studies, Anderson says:There is now a better way. Petabytes allow us to say: "Correlation is enough." We can stop looking for models. We can analyze the data without hypotheses about what it might show. We can throw the numbers into the biggest computing clusters the world has ever seen and let statistical algorithms find patterns where science cannot.Google's search is an example of the value of vast amounts of data. Anderson says:At the petabyte scale, information is not a matter of simple three- and four-dimensional taxonomy and order but of dimensionally agnostic statistics. It calls for an entirely different approach, one that requires us to lose the tether of data as something that can be visualized in its totality. It forces us to view data mathematically first and establish a context for it later. For instance, Google conquered the advertising world with nothing more than applied mathematics. It didn't pretend to know anything about the culture and conventions of advertising -- it just assumed that better data, with better analytical tools, would win the day. And Google was right. . Google's founding philosophy is that we don't know why this page is better than that one: If the statistics of incoming links say it is, that's good enough. No semantic or causal analysis is required.This is what I call "the slopbucket approach to search," and even at the search level, I find it somewhat worrying. The basic principle is that if you can apply a sufficient amount of brute force to ignorance, then it starts to look smart.It's an idea that has triumphed in chess, where the application of vast amounts of processing power to brute force search beat attempts to create really intelligent chess software. All chess programs include both approaches, of course, but when you had a Commodore 64 then brute force didn't get you very far. If you have 10,000 Pentium or Cell chips, it does. Of course, you don't learn much from the brute force approach, but that doesn't matter. The only thing that matters is winning.Google search also works. It doesn't actually have any way of finding the best pages about a topic, but It makes a huge set of assumptions about the sort of pages that people like and the sort of people who are doing the search. If this gets enough of the better pages near the top of the results page, then Google wins. It doesn't matter if Google misses all the best pages (how would you know?) as long as its subset includes at least one that will do. On the chess-playing analogy, it doesn't matter if the software plays terrible moves: it just has to make better moves than you.Whether this is enough to doscience without modelsis another question. About 25 years ago, a lot of us were interested in neural networks as a way of creating artificial intelligence machines. The idea was that you trained the system using data, and if didn't matter how the system got results as long as it got useful results.Unfortunately it doesn't necessarily work that way. For example, an AI machine could apparently learn to distinguish your tanks from the enemy's tanks, when it was actually distinguishing between one type of photo (sunny pictures of your tanks) and another type of photo (long-range telephoto shots of enemy tanks). In sum, if you don't know how the system works, do youknowanything?There are, obviously, cases where nobody really cares: spam filtering, for example. But if we don't care when it comes to doing science, is it still science?
The New York Times rana fascinating articleon the GTA Andreas Hot Coffee 'scandal' yesterday. You may remember that two years ago, lawyers launched a class action suit against Rockstar, seeking reparations for any gamers offended by the sexual material hidden in the game. Rather than face a costly legal battle, Rockstarchose to settle, offering outraged victims a $35 refund for their psychological trauma.The deadline for claims was May 16, and considering that millions of Americans bought the game, you'd thinklawyers would have been swamped with requests. But no. According to the NYT piece 2,676 people have filed claims. "Am I disappointed? Sure," says Seth R. Lesser, the lead lawyer for the plaintiffs. "We can't guess as to why now, several years later, people care or don't care. The merits of the case were clear."Or were they? As many Gamesblog readers are aware, the sexual content in GTA San Andreas was never intended for public consumption - it was on the disc, but inaccessible to players; a relic of an idea that was abandoned in the development phase. But when PC gamers discovered the content, they created a downloadable mod, allowing others to view it. Meanwhile, owners of the console versions also created hacking tools to access the short, clearly unfinished and spectacularly un-erotic sex moments.So, what sort of person would download the hacks and modsnecessaryto see the rude bits, only to be disgusted and litigious as a result? Can you sue for disappointment and frustration? I don't think so. Not even in the US. Ah yes, but what about the parents of teenagers who managed to download these damaging scenes of poorly animated adults engaging in mildly titillating consensual sex? Well, according to the NYT piece, the parents didn't really know the game contained violence either. Or drugs. Or theft. Or swearing. Or, indeed, sweary violent drug theft.Depositions from claimants reveal the almost total lack of understanding some parents had about GTA. The NYT quotes from one example, a woman who bought the game for her 15-year-old son:Ms. Stanhouse was asked whether she would knowingly buy for her son a game that allowed him to kill police officers."Well, I think he does have games with violence," Ms. Stanhouse said, adding that she would "possibly" buy such a game - though not one that contained sex scenes like those in San Andreas.So, killing policemen is okay, but watching a short sex scene (many times less explicit than what you'll find in an R movie)? Absolutely not! Where's my frickin' lawyer?!How weird. And yet how predictable given the fuss that Mass Effect ignited with its micro-seconds of uninteractive fondling. CNET has agood response to the story, which pretty much says it all:Sex, drugs, violence, prostitution, and other human vices should be kept from children as much as possible. But in the end, we shouldn't attack the developer for creating a game for adults that a child happens to play, nor should we attack major movie studios if a child sneaks into an R-rated film.Iblogged about thiswhen it all kicked off three years ago. I was outraged that such a laughable non-event could somehow spark an international controversy. Hot Coffee symbolised then, as it still does, how far games have yet to travel to pierce the mass public consciousness.The day Heat magazine has a videogame scandal on page three is the day the industry really, truly goes mainstream. Until then, the best we can manage is a daft little interactive sex scene of real interest only to lonely boys and the men who worry about them.They're still worried, but not worried enough to claim a $35 refund. That may be progress of sorts.
I might lose it by BiographiesA graduate design project at the Design Academy, Eindhoven, has RFID-controlled chairs that follow you around the library. Bur what if it's busy and there's a traffic jam? And aren't they a bit spooky?Shaken, not destroyedThis is a 730-tonne spherical tuned mass damper that compensates for movement in Taipei 101, the world's tallestcompletelycompleted (doh!) building. And here's what it did in the Szechuan earthquake...First chess, now air hockeyOh nooo! An industrial robot programmed to be unbeatable at air hockey (puck speeds over 25mph)? Argh!Got a favourite games or technology video? Tell us about it in the comments...
Metal Gear Solid 4finally gets a review this week. Just in case you care the delay was down to the code arriving the week of release and hence missingTechnology'sdeadline. But unlike a lot of code that arrives late in the day - the so-bad-you-wonder-if-someone-is-having-a-laughAlone in the Dark, which limped through the postbox on release day, is a case in point - MGS4 is good. Very good. Not a system seller or anything - though it may have tempted a few 360 owners to double up on their consoles - but an excellent showcase for the PS3.My review wasCrisis Corefor PSP. And it's a tough one really. Taken on its own this is an above average role player with splendid graphics and an enjoyable story. But to fully appreciate it you need to have spent some serious time withFinal Fantasy VII(released in '97). Plus I never really got to grips with the fruit machine style levelling system. Still, and I appreciate this isn't saying much, Crisis Core is the best thing around on PSP at the moment. But my personal fave this week is the fabulousOkamifor the Wii. Steve gave it 4 stars but I would have gone for 5. What with Okami andSuper Smash Brothers Brawlout now things are looking up for harder core Wii gamers.
I have problems with "Compress Old Files". When I run disk cleanup, deleting old compressed files takes a long time and may not finish after an hour.Reza MasoudiCompress Old Files is a feature of the Disk Cleanup tool (cleanmgr.exe) in Windows XP, but it does not delete files. What it does is take files that have not been accessed for a specified number of days and compress them to save disk space. This wasn't a bad idea when hard drives were small and expensive, but it's not such a good idea now.The files that benefit most from compression are things like Microsoft Office files, and these are already compressed as standard when saved in the new Office 2007 and OpenOffice file formats. The files that take up most room -- sound, image and video files with extensions such as jpg, mp3 and avi -- are already compressed. Trying to compress them further takes a long time and they can end up larger than they were before. If you're really short of disk space, it's better to back up some large files to CD or DVD then delete them. External hard drives are an even handier option, but these should also be backed up.Disk Cleanup can also perform a number of functions such as removing temporary internet files, removing downloaded program files such as ActiveX controls (not always a good idea), removing restore points (a bad idea) and uninstalling Windows components that you don't use (possibly a bad idea). As such, it provides a useful one-stop shop for people who don't want to be involved with the operation of their PCs. However, I think it's better to get slightly involved and download CCleaner fromccleaner.com, which does most of the same jobs. If you need to compress files, you can do this separately.Bear in mind that Windows XP needs lots of disk space to store its swap file (code that temporarily doesn't fit in memory), hibernation files, temporary files, directory entries etc. You should always try to leave 2GB of hard drive space free, and never less than 1GB, to keep XP running at its best.
I have some unwanted software installed on my laptop which I can't remove using the Windows uninstall tool. Can you suggest any free software that would do the job?Mel HallworthAdd or Remove Programs, in the Windows Control Panel, is usually the safest way to uninstall programs. However, some programs come with their own uninstallation files, and these should be visible in the program's Start menu folder, or in its folder in the Program Files directory on your hard drive. If neither of those applies, there are several free utilities that will do the job. The one you are most likely to have already isCCleaner. If you run CCleaner and click on the Tools icon, Uninstall is the first tool.The main problem with uninstalling software is removing the right registry entries without also removing ones you still need. CCleaner includes a good registry cleaner, and will also back up any changes it makes, so I tend to trust it.However, there are a few more specialised uninstallation utilities, such asZSoft Uninstaller 2.4.1andRevo Uninstaller. The ZSoft program is quicker and has more features than Add/Remove programs, such as search and analyse, and it looks reasonably safe to use. Revo Uninstaller has lots of extra features including Auto Run Manager, Evidence Remover, and Unrecoverable Delete. It looks powerful, but could do a lot of damage if used carelessly. There are other options atSnapFiles.Bear in mind that some programs are designed to be hard to remove completely, either because they need to resist viruses that try to remove them, or because they have hidden anti-piracy features, or both. It's a good idea to run a web search for the word "uninstall" plus the program's name, to see if a special removal tool is available.
When I minimise Windows programs they no longer go to the Taskbar but disappear off the screen completely.Phil BoddeyThe programs should still be running, so you can Alt-Tab to them. If so, Kelly's Korner has a registry tweak to fix the problem: seeLine 240.
When closing down Windows XP I get lots of ads, which I have to close as well. I bought AVG8, but the ads still come.Sean BroganThere are no legitimate programs that display ads on shutdown, though it could be an adware program that you installed along with some free software. AVG should have identified it. Try running it again in Safe Mode. If that doesn't solve the problem, trySuperAntiSpyware.
One of the games that made the original PlayStation famous, Metal Gear has struggled to make a similar impact on other machines. Luckily, MGS4 ties up most of the story's loose ends while reinventing itself as a modern epic with looks to die for. It begins slowly, with too many cutscenes and a back-to-basics approach that belies all the new gadgets, terrains and split-screen perspectives you're about to face. Most striking of these are the battlefield scenarios, where you take on enemies in Call of Duty-style fragfests that look as spectacular as they sound. With so much variety, action and depth to enjoy, MGS4 effortlessly steals back the crown of "best stealth game" from Splinter Cell.
Nobody would begrudge Okami a second stab at success: when it was originally launched on the PlayStation 2, the fulsomeness of the critical acclaim it received was matched only by the paucity of its sales. This Wii version should introduce a new audience to its many charms, including a gorgeous Japanese watercolour art style, a cute, mystical plot in which you play as the she-wolf Amaterasu, acquiring all manner of divine powers expressed through the medium of calligraphy, and inventive gameplay generally along the lines of an action RPG. Which is well suited to the Wii, as it includes much drawing of symbols. Given that the Wii has done much to give games a better reputation, the enchanting, quirky Okami may just have found its spiritual home.
What happens when you take hundreds of developers, a sprinkling of computers, dollops of greasy food, no sleep - and add a generous helping of Doctor Who?It might sound like a formula for disaster rather than a recipe for success, but that didn't stop the hackers who gathered in north London's Alexandra Palace from tucking in to last weekend's two-day geek marathon.Mashed 08, a BBC-hosted event for coders and programmers of all stripes, was described by organiser Matt Cashmore as "a festival with a purpose". The idea is that lots of likeminded people come together, get hold of some exciting technologies and then have 24 hours to build the most interesting application they can manage.If the promise of being in the same room as hundreds of other hackers weren't enough, the flames of imagination were fanned thanks to some of the sponsor organisations, who opened up their code for the weekend to see what could be done. The services on offer included Multimap (now part of Microsoft) and Yahoo's Fire Eagle, a platform for location-based services, as well as ones from Google and others.Many of the most interesting interfaces came from inside the BBC, however, and were opened up for one weekend only as part of the corporation's Backstage project. Among them was a series of ways to interact with the travel guide website Lonely Planet (now owned by the BBC's commercial arm, Worldwide), as well as some assistance in how to write in the MHEG interactive TV language. Another option was to use Kamaelia, a open-source, snap-together framework that came out of the corporation's work.But perhaps the most intriguing - and enticing - thing on offer was access to BBC Redux, the corporation's internal archive of programmes. Redux allows users to grab streams of TV and radio programmes, or interact with shows, subtitling feeds and other forms of data associated with programmes.Freeing the mindGetting access to this data, even if just for two days, provided fertile ground for the hackers and resulted in a stream of projects that used the system. They included ways to contextualise programmes by tracking the keywords, and a database that examined the music you listened to and recommended BBC DJs who played songs you might like.Elsewhere, the projects ranged from the serious to the silly. One team working in Second Life, led by Linden Lab's Jim Purbrick, constructed so-called "carbon goggles" - which let users see the carbon footprint of objects inside the virtual world thanks to data pulled from the carbon database AMEE. At the other end of the spectrum, another team mixed the live subtitles from BBC News with an iconic Bob Dylan video in a little spoof that the creators called "Subterranean Homesick News".Among the other notable schemes was the Social Flight Simulator, built by a team led by conference stalwart Ewan Spence. This mixed data from Multimap and Google Earth to produce a basic flight simulator and navigation package. Inside a mocked-up fuselage, a pilot and navigator had to make their way around the skies - providing much enjoyment for those who took to the controls.Freeing the wordsNot every idea made it to the landing strip, however. At the beginning of proceedings there were nearly 200 ideas floating around, but by the time the final presentations took place on Sunday afternoon there were only around 50 that had gone the distance. Those presentations, overseen by former Doctor Who actor Sylvester McCoy, included one of the standout projects: a real-time TV dubbing system by a team called Northenders.This took the data on offer and pushed it through several steps in order to provide something which could be genuinely useful: after grabbing Freeview's subtitles (which are transmitted as pictures, strangely) it scanned the text and pushed it into a translation system such as Babelfish; that data was then sent to a speech synthesis program and played back over the video so that viewers could hear what was being said in any language they pleased. And, by delaying the live video for just a few seconds, the dub and the pictures were in perfect synchronisation - even if the translations themselves weren't necessarily that reliable.It was the second time the ambitious marathon took place at Alexandra Palace: however, last year the event was called Hack Day and had risen out of a format put together by Yahoo's Chad Dickerson. It originally started as a way to bring the company's many developers together for a weekend of creative programming, but since then has spread all over the world and across the technology business.To exemplify this, the event even managed to draw some attendees from unexpected corners of the industry. Although most of the attendees at Mashed were professional British web coders, one trio of hackers arrived from the New York Times, while another team which usually works building custom processors at ARM in Cambridge admitted that they were straying from their usual beat.Still, as the tired masses clutching their laptops and beanbags, things seemed to have hit the spot."The intent of Hack Day was always to provide an environment for creativity and to celebrate the idea of code as art," said Matt McAlister, head of the Guardian Developer Network and one of the weekend's judges."It's hard to think of completely new approaches to problems when you're slugging out code all day against a timeline and a plan, so I'm hoping that developers saw this as a way to get back to what it is that they love about the internet."The winners at Mashed 08Twitter on TVPress the red button and display RSS feeds (in this case, Twitter) as subtitles on your TV screen.Michael StillwellAn app that uses Yahoo's Fire Eagle to work out where you are in the world, and then pushes tips on interesting things in the neighbourhood from the Lonely Planet site.Team BobPointless but fun mashup that places subtitles from BBC programmes on to the cue cards in Bob Dylan's Subterranean Homesick Blues video.Currentcost LiveUses the data culled from electricity monitors and publishes it to the web - creating a potential social network or gaming situation.Scripting enabledA system which makes the BBC Redux archives accessible for blind people, allowing them to find and play the audio they want. Also built a similar system for SlideShare and Powerpoint presentations.NorthendersAn almost real-time dubbing system for live TV programmes.
Yes, but it's difficult to determine how widespread the effects will be. Security researchers at Radboud University in Nijmegen, Holland, have been playing with Philips's Mifare RFID cards - used by Transport for London's contactless Oyster cards - for some time, and last week managed to crack the encryption on a card and clone it. They added credit to it and took free rides around London's Underground network.The only equipment needed was a laptop and an RFID reader; Bart Jacobs, professor of computer security at the university and one of the team who did the work, told us it takes "a few seconds" to crack any Oyster card's encryption. "We need to eavesdrop on the communication between a card and a card reader. From that communication we can deduce secret cryptographic keys that are used to protect the contents of the card. Once we have the keys we 'own' the card and can manipulate it as we like."How important is the flaw? "Very serious," says Jacobs. "These are things that should not be possible, not even with a single card." He was unsure how easy criminals might find it to copy his work.Transport for London, however, is apparently unworried. "We run daily tests for cloned or fraudulent cards and any found would be stopped within 24 hours of being discovered," it said in a statement. "The most anyone could gain from a rogue card is one day's travel."Oyster is very important for TfL: more than 10m Oyster cards have been issued and 38m journeys are made each week using Oyster. Around 80% of all Underground and bus payments in London are now by Oyster card. The system uses an RFID (radio frequency identification) chip which activates when the card, and its chip, come close to a reader - in effect, the chip's aerial resonates to the frequency put out by the reader, and the two can swap data. Each card stores digitally encrypted information about its unique number and the amount of credit it holds. When you go through an Oyster turnstile and touch it to the reader, a digital conversation ensues which decrements the credit on your card. However, the digital conversation only applies within the station; TfL appears (judging by its response) to not have a real-time synchronisation with its central database of tickets and credit. But overnight, when the transport system is quiet, the database would spot a ticket that had acquired extra credit without a matching transaction in its favour, and ban it.What's also unclear is how worthwhile it would be for criminals. An Oyster card costs &pound;3 - enough for two trips in the inner Zone 1. Only those who can get hold of them virtually free could make a profit. Criminals probably have their ways. But this isn't going to lead to a collapse in Oyster's use.
uWink at the barTheuWink restaurantin Hollywood is the first to feature an interactive multi-touch computer-based bar.Top of the petaflopsThe latest list of theTop 500 supercomputersis now topped by the first system to achieve a petaflops (a quadrillion floating point operations per second).Signed by voiceWorldPay is introducingVoice Transact, a biometrics system that lets people authorise payments by "signing" with their voice.Pure DAB for lessPure has launched thePure One Mini, a DAB/FM portable radio, at &pound;39.99.Brain booster?O'Reilly's "missing manual" series of computer books now includesYour Brain: The Missing Manual.Non sibi sed omnibusFacebook is nowavailable in 16 languages, including French, German, Italian, Japanese and Chinese. But not Latin, yet.Meeting strangersMore than 1,000 personal videos from 49 countries will be shown at theStrangerFestivalin Amsterdam, July 3-5.Velvet Assassin, killer gameAstealth-action gamewill enable players to control British secret agent Violette Summer during the second world war.
Clean up your diskI have problems with "Compress Old Files". When I run disk cleanup, deleting old compressed files takes a long time and may not finish after an hour.Reza MasoudiJS:Compress Old Files is a feature of the Disk Cleanup tool (cleanmgr.exe) in Windows XP, but it does not delete files. What it does is take files that have not been accessed for a specified number of days and compress them to save disk space. This wasn't a bad idea when hard drives were small and expensive, but it's not such a good idea now. The files that benefit most from compression are things like Microsoft Office files, and these are already compressed as standard when saved in the new Office 2007 and OpenOffice file formats. The files that take up most room - sound, image and video files with extensions such as jpg, mp3 and avi - are already compressed. Trying to compress them further takes a long time and they can end up larger than they were before. If you're really short of disk space, it's better to back up some large files to CD or DVD then delete them. External hard drives are an even handier option, but these should also be backed up.Disk Cleanup can also perform a number of functions such as removing temporary internet files, removing downloaded program files such as ActiveX controls (not always a good idea), removing restore points (a bad idea) and uninstalling Windows components that you don't use (possibly a bad idea). As such, it provides a useful one-stop shop for people who don't want to be involved with the operation of their PCs. However, I think it's better to get slightly involved and download CCleaner fromccleaner.com, which does most of the same jobs. If you need to compress files, you can do this separately. Bear in mind that Windows XP needs lots of disk space to store its swap file (code that temporarily doesn't fit in memory), hibernation files, temporary files, directory entries etc. You should always try to leave 2GB of hard drive space free, and never less than 1GB, to keep XP running at its best.Uninstallation bluesI have some unwanted software installed on my laptop which I can't remove using the Windows uninstall tool. Can you suggest any free software that would do the job?Mel HallworthJS:Add or Remove Programs, in the Windows Control Panel, is usually the safest way to uninstall programs. However, some programs come with their own uninstallation files, and these should be visible in the program's Start menu folder, or in its folder in the Program Files directory on your hard drive. If neither of those applies, there are several free utilities that will do the job. The one you are most likely to have already is CCleaner. If you run CCleaner and click on the Tools icon, Uninstall is the first tool. The main problem with uninstalling software is removing the right registry entries without also removing ones you still need. CCleaner includes a good registry cleaner, and will also back up any changes it makes, so I tend to trust it.However, there are a few more specialised uninstallation utilities, such asZSoft Uninstaller 2.4.1andRevo Uninstaller. The ZSoft program is quicker and has more features than Add/Remove programs, such as search and analyse, and it looks reasonably safe to use. Revo Uninstaller has lots of extra features including Auto Run Manager, Evidence Remover, and Unrecoverable Delete. It looks powerful, but could do a lot of damage if used carelessly. There are other options atSnapFiles. Bear in mind that some programs are designed to be hard to remove completely, either because they need to resist viruses that try to remove them, or because they have hidden anti-piracy features, or both. It's a good idea to run a web search for the word "uninstall" plus the program's name, to see if a special tool is available.Disappearing applicationsWhen I minimise Windows programs they no longer go to the Taskbar but disappear off the screen completely.Phil BoddeyJS:The programs should still be running, so you can Alt-Tab to them. If so, Kelly's Korner has a registry tweak to fix the problem:Line 240.Ads on shutdownWhen closing down Windows XP I get lots of ads, which I have to close as well. I bought AVG8, but the ads still come.Sean BroganJS:There are no legitimate programs that display ads on shutdown, though it could be an adware program that you installed along with some free software. AVG should have identified it. Try running it again in Safe Mode. If that doesn't solve the problem, trySuperAntiSpyware.BackchatNicola Richard wanted a simple way to scan slides on a Mac and I suggested the Plustek OpticFilm 7200i AI film scanner. Roger Larkinson says Plustek's OpticFilm 7300 (&pound;169.99) "works well. The CD includes SilverFast software for Mac OS X 10.4 (Tiger), and software for OS X 10.5 (Leopard) is available as a download, I believe."&#183;Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk. More atblogs.guardian.co.uk/askjack
