It’s a garment that might attract a second glance – made as it is of an unusual array of 3D printed quills. But beware, the scrutiny is mutual. Designed by LA-based artist and architectBehnaz Farahiand on show at the Artists in Residence exhibition, Pier 9, Autodesk in San Francisco next month, this stylish top, titled Caress of the Gaze, is “conscious” – the cropped tunic has a concealed eye-tracking camera that allows the garment to respond physically to a passing stare.The ‘conscious’ cropped tunic reacts to a gaze.Farahi’s intention, she tellsTech Monthly, is to create garments that are “an extension of our own skin”, looking to nature’s clothing – skin, scales and feathers – for inspiration, taking note of the “different porosities, different densities, and different behaviours” of the constituent parts.Back view of Caress of the Gaze.The design has an organic appearance, almost mimicking the feathered breast of a bird. But the quills are housed in a semi-flexible mesh laced with “muscle wire” that, much like our muscles, contracts and relaxes in unison to create the movement in the garment, all of which is computed from the gaze of the onlooker, captured by the camera.The hidden camera in the garmet.The camera can also detect gender and, less accurately, age – parameters which, Farahi reveals might, be incorporated into future designs. But she is also keen to explore how tech-laden clothing can translate both external and internal social pressures. “Technology will enhance our bodily function and give us a power that our body doesn’t have,” she says.
If you’re hoping Amazon will send the nextGeorge R R Martinnovel to you by drone, you may have even longer to wait than you thought: the FAA estimates it will be three years before it has a framework for drone operators to fly the machines without direct human oversight.At a conference for commercial drone operators in Las Vegas on Wednesday morning, the US Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) told the drone industry itsnew rules for droneswill be given to the White House by the end of the year, including some more relaxed policies for corporate drone users.At present anyone flying a commercial drone is only allowed to operate it if he can see it. For oil and gas companies, railroads, and even the forest service, relaxing the “line of sight” rules is atop priority. Each of them wants the ability to see where a rail is broken, how much oil has spilled, or the size of the forest fire as soon as possible, rather than send a human being into a potentially dangerous (or expensive) situation.“There’s been a really unprecedented demand we’ve seen from all of you and it’s been super exciting and kind of scary for us,” said the FAA drone oversight office’s special rules coordinator, Robert Pappas, at a Wednesday morning keynote at the first annual Commercial Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) conference. “That demand really forced us to think differently.”Pappas directs a series of FAA safety experiments with industry collaborators called Pathfinder projects. The timeline for Pathfinder projects varies between two and three years, but the most important to many of the oil and gas executives at the conference is the regulator’s requirement that drones operate within view of the pilot at all times. One, with CNN, explores the way drone cameras are used in journalism, and another, with tech company PrecisionHawk, is developing an air-traffic control software for drones called Latas.Pappas, charged with integrating unmanned aerial vehicles into the FAA’s policies, said the executive branch’s Office of Management and Budget should have the rules by year’s end, including an easing of the restriction that every commercial drone operator have a pilot’s license. But he said that the third Pathfinder project, a partnership with rail shipping company BNSF, had a timeline of “36 months”.Pappas said the desire from BNSF and companies like it to operate across tens of thousands of miles of trackwork was understandable. “Clearly, operating within visual line of sight over 32,000 miles is a difficult thing,” he said.The FAA has expanded dramatically over the past year to cope with demand from industry; more senior staff positions have been added and there is greater emphasis on quicker rule-making.But it’s also dealing more harshly with scofflaws: the FAA recommended a record $1.9m fine for aerial photography company SkyPam, which the regulator said operated its drones without government authorization for nearly two years and didn’t respond to subpoenas. The company eventually got authorization to operate, but it didn’t get immunity from allegedly flouting the law.Many at the conference consider easing of regulation inevitable; indeed, drone manufacturers like Kespry are preparing systems that can be set in motion and left alone to take off, gather data and return every day at the same time.The rules slated for next year would ease some restrictions: Drones weighing less than 55 pounds wouldn’t require a pilot’s license to fly commercially, for example – the operators would instead have to pass a written proficiency test (experts at the conference said that might change to include hands-on training, as well).With respect to other industry demands, Pappas was frank: “We’re trying to find a way to authorize these kinds of operations,” he said. “It may not be the best way, it may not be a cost-effective way, but it’s tremendously important because it identifies the bottleneck, whether they’re cost bottlenecks or resource bottlenecks or regulatory bottlenecks.”
Waterstones is to stop selling the Kindle e-reader in most of its stores in what industry bosses have said could become a watershed moment in the battle between physical and digital books.James Daunt, the managing director of Waterstones,told the Guardian he has removed Kindlesfrom most of the books chain’s 280 stores because they were “getting virtually no sales”.Daunt said the Kindle was now in “well, well under a third” ofWaterstonesstores and the space has instead been turned over to paperback and hardback books.After a decade in the doldrums for physical book sales – which took Waterstones to the brink of collapse – the move highlights the changing shape of the publishing market as sales of hardbacks and paperbacks enjoy a widespread resurgence.Book sales chartSales of physical books in Britain rose 3% in the first half of 2015, compared to the same period last year – the first increase since 2012 – while sales of digital books went up 2%. However, the rise in digital sales was driven by schools and English language teaching, with consumer sales down 2%, according to figures from the Publishers Association trade body.Richard Mollet, the chief executive of the Publishers Association, said the departure of the Kindle from Waterstones stores could become a symbolic move. “Lets see what happens with sales of both [physical and digital], but in the future people may look back and say: that was the moment the market began to stabilise.“For bookshops, it is particularly heartening. Publishers are keen for a place on the high street so books can be a discovery.”Physical book sales are particularly resilient in non-fiction, where the popularity of cookbooks and reference titles means just 10% of sales are digital books. This compares to 37% for fiction.“These sort of titles really are at their best when in the physical form,” Mollet said of non-fiction books. “They are also beautiful titles to have around the house.”Independent bookshops are also enjoying a revival after a tough period since the financial crisis.Sheryl Shurville, who owns Chorleywood Bookshop in Hertfordshire, said her customers include children and young adults, who are supposedly at the forefront of the digital revolution. She said: “We do lots of events with schools and children love the real book, they really do.Related:Kindle turns five: independent women thrive in ebook bestseller charts“Even 20 and 30-year-olds like the physical book. I think a lot of people do a lot of work on screen, so for pleasure they want to read the physical book. It is still a treasured item. People look back with fondness and with associated memories at their books.”Bookshops are preparing for a busy week, with around 1,800 stores marking the start of the Christmas season with an in-storeevent called Books Are My Bag.The vital Christmas period begins with so-called Super Thursday this week, when roughly twice as many hardbacks are published than in the average week. The key books this year include titles from Bill Bryson, Chris Evans and Pharrell Williams.Consumer analysts said digital books have not offered enough benefits to counter the allure of hardbacks and paperbacks.Andre Breedt, a director at Nielsen Book Research, said: “Physical book sales have been much more resilient than some people expected, particularly due to an incorrect comparison with physical music sales.“The physical nature of books has appealed for centuries and is fundamental to their allure. Digital versions have some advantages but, due to their single function, not enough to significantly overturn this.”According to a study by Nielsen, 75% of children favour physical books and 35% refuse to read digital titles.The Waterstones boss said a key reasonbehind the recovery in physical saleswas an improvement in the quality of bookshops since the recession. Waterstones has installed cafes and allows store managers to tailor the books each branch sells to the local community.Daunt said: “A major factor for Waterstones is that our stores are better. We were effectively bankrupt four years ago. When you face oblivion, it forces you to look at what you are doing and to do it a lot better.“It is immensely reassuring for us that this turnaround has happened. Most of our bookshops are a much happier and vibrant place to be at the moment.”However, despite removing the Kindle from all Waterstones stores apart from those in metropolitan areas, Daunt admitted that ebooks would continue to have a place in the market.Related:Amazon set to pay self-published authors as little as $0.006 per page read“I think it works beautifully for some specific things. “If you are elderly or hard of sight, you can change the font. It also helps if your bookshelves are full, and books can be heavy to carry.”Philip Jones, the editor of trade magazine The Bookseller, said ebooks should not be written off and a decline in sales of the Kindle was not necessarily linked to the popularity of physical books. “I don’t think you should confuse sales of e-readers with ebooks,” he said.“I think what we are seeing is an acknowledgement that e-readers don’t follow the same pattern of obsolescence as tablets. That has an effect on long-term sales trends. There is also a transition from e-readers to mobile and tablets. For Christmas, you are more likely to want a tablet than an e-reader.”Amazon, which manufactures the Kindle, insisted it was happy with sales. A spokesman said: “We are pleased with the positive momentum and growing distribution of Kindle, and Fire tablet sales – our devices are now available in over 2,500 retail locations across the UK, including Argos, Tesco, Dixons, John Lewis and recent additions like Sainsbury’s, Boots and Shop Direct. Our UK, US and worldwide Kindle book sales are growing in 2015.”
A team of British technology firms has developed a “death ray” for drones that can knock an unmanned aerial vehicle out of the sky by turning it off in midair up to a mile away.“If I can see it, I can kill it,” said Rick Sondag, executive vice-president of Liteye Systems, which sells the device, at the Commercial Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) Expo in Las Vegas this week.Interest in drone-killers has grown as unmanned aerial vehicles have taken off. Their uses might be readily apparent to people who’ve seen hobbyist drone fliers buzzing too close to their property lines, but there are law enforcement and governmental applications too.In July,a drone dropped heroin, marijuana and tobacco into a prison recreation yard. The following monthanother contraband delivery droneallegedly on its way to a prison was nabbed by cops before it got off the ground in Maryland. In the second case, local law enforcement said it wasn’t the first time they’d dealt with the problem.There’s also the matter of airport safety and the ongoing trouble with curious drone photographers trying to get pictures of natural disasters, especially where fire department helicopters are trying to unload payloads of water or airlift out stranded victims. At the expo, the parks service had an entire booth devoted to handing out posters and leaflets with slogans such as “If You Fly, We Can’t”.Liteye’s Anti-UAV Defense System (Auds) is a set of beige boxes atop two square posts, and looks like a particularly menacing pair of weathervanes. The drone-destroying vane has a long cylinder that sticks out like a rifle barrel and two smaller cylinders on one side.The Anti–UAV Defence System.Photograph: PRThe cylinders are a set of directional radio antennas that works like a gun. The radio spectrum allotted to drone users is fairly narrow, so a brief, focussed broadcast is enough to bring down a targeted drone without affecting “friendly” UAVs or anyone’s cellphone reception for long.Liteye, based in Colorado, was named distributor in the US and Canada for the device earlier this year by its three manufacturers: Enterprise, Chess Systems and Blighter, which are all based in the UK. Liteye is trying to sell to airports and “the homeland security market”, according toBlighter.It’s not the first anti-drone device to appear this year. Boeing debuted a giant laser gun last month, touting its ability to knock out drones from safe distances.“If you were on the receiving end of laser energy, you would have no idea where it was coming from or what was happening,” explained Boeing engineer Isaac Neal in the company’spromo video.Sondag is hopeful that his radio gun could help fend off tighter regulation of the burgeoning drone industry. “The US government, like everyone else, has critical infrastructure and if they don’t feel like they can protect it, they’ll pass laws that will hamper progress and hamper current use,” Sondag said.
Google has denied claims that its operating system for in-car entertainment, Android Auto, spies on users.The report,from Motor Trend magazine, said that Porsche had chosen not to use Android Auto in its newest cars, instead opting for Apple Carplay over privacy fears.In an overview of 2017’s iteration of the Porsche 911, Motor Trend’s Jonny Lieberman wrote: “as part of the agreement an automaker would have to enter with Google” to include Android Auto.“Certain pieces of data must be collected and mailed back to Mountain View, California. Stuff like vehicle speed, throttle position, coolant and oil temperature, engine revs – basically Google wants a complete OBD2 [on-board diagnostics] dump whenever someone activates Android Auto.“Apple, by way of stark contrast, only wants to know if the car is moving while Apple Play is in use.”However, Google has disputed the report, specifically denying the claims that it collected “throttle position, oil temperature, and coolant temperature”.In a statement, the company said: “We take privacy very seriously and do not collect the data the Motor Trend article claims such as throttle position, oil temp, and coolant temp. Users opt in to share information with Android Auto that improves their experience, so the system can be hands-free when in drive and provide more accurate navigation through the car’s GPS.” That opt-in is similar to the method used by Android phones, letting users choose the data sharing they are comfortable with when they set up their car.
On 21 September, Tesla’s chief executive and founder, Elon Musk, used all the tricks in his showman’s book tolaunch the company’s latest all-electric vehicle, theModel X, at the company’s San Francisco Bay headquarters.Tesla’s mission, he said, is to “accelerate the advent of sustainable transport”, hoping that the new SUV will help the company appeal to a wider audience of American motorists. But with a $130,000 price tag for the fully loaded version (and a base price of about $80,000), the Model X could end up having an awkward relationship with sustainability.Americans bought 529,817 SUVs and crossovers in September – a 30% increase over September 2014 – so building an electric vehicle (EV) to fit the un-electrified large crossover segment seemed to make good sense for Tesla. But even beyond its unique status as an EV, the Model X is not a typical crossover. It’s probably the world’s first mass-produced EV crossover, but it’s much too expensive to be anyone’s idea of a mass market vehicle.Related:Tesla Model X: Elon Musk launches first all-electric SUVFrom technological and design standpoints, the vehicle is impressive, so its enthusiastic reception among the motoring press makes plenty of sense. The third vehicle to appear in Tesla’s social media-burnished 12-year history, the Model X enters the automaker’s lineup alongside the sleek Model S sedan. Together, the two luxury EVs represent the best that moneyed environmental do-gooders (or those who want to appear as such) can buy. They are the physical manifestation of their creator’s bold view of the future – vehicles for a world where fossil fuels no longer matter.“For many people who have a lot of money, buying a Tesla is as much buying into Elon’s vision as it is about the product,” Brett Smith, an analyst with the Center for Automotive Research, said in an interview. “You become part of something great.”In addition to its good looks, the Model X comes with a host of semi-autonomous features. Among them are emergency automatic braking Tesla says will even work at high speed, an automatic steering function the automaker says will monitor lane lines to keep the vehicle in its lane without driver input, and automatic parking. A suite of radar and sonar sensors and a forward-facing camera make the technology possible, and Tesla says periodic software updates will automatically upload improvements to the systems over the airwaves.Then there are thefalcon doors, a Back to the Future fantasy come true in a car that can haul more that just two radiation-suited plutonium thieves. The rear doors, often a design problem from an ingress-egress perspective in four-door, three-row vehicles, fold up and toward the center of the vehicle. Sensors keep them from banging into things. Single support seats swivel out of the way for passengers bound for the third row, improving accessibility over conventional setups. Plus, the doors look cool.As with the Model S, there’s a “Ludicrous” version of the Model X. While the standard Model X will go from zero to 60 miles per hour in 3.8 seconds, a Ludicrous upgrade on the performance model nudges that elapsed time down to 3.2 seconds as the vehicle rockets to a top speed of 155mph. The front and rear wheels are driven by separate motors – a 259-horsepower unit up front and a 503-horsepower one in the rear – and Tesla says they crank out a combined 713 pound feet of torque.All that twisting force gives the Model X a 5,000-pound towing capacity, a capability similar to many pickup trucks. Tipping the scales at 5,441lbs, the Model X is about as heavy or heavier than most full-size pickup trucks, too. For comparison, the 2016 Chevrolet Corvette Z06, one of the fastest sports cars on the road, boasts a 650-horsepower supercharged gasoline V8 engine that produces 650 pound feet of torque and will carry the 3,500-pound car from zero to 60mph in 3 seconds.In keeping with Tesla’s reputation for building cars the well-heeled will appreciate, the Model X is imbued with a number of luxurious touches. Intuitive doors open automatically for the driver, and the infotainment stack features a massive 17-inch display screen. The little road noise allowed to enter the cabin will be moot against the Model X’s 17-speaker stereo system. Interior air is purified for the Tesla elite, with a Hepa filter system that ducts air in through the vehicle’s front fascia.If all that sounds unattainable for most people, it absolutely is.“The Model X expands Tesla’s product portfolio, but at $130,000, it’s a very niche product,” Smith said, adding that the automaker’s real challenge would be in making the jump to producing and selling a mass market model. “It will still be a huge challenge for Tesla to make a profit at such low volume with so much invested in development. Until they get some real volume to spread out all of that development cost, it’s tough to think of it as a profitable company.”Akshay Anand, an analyst at Kelley Blue Book, said that the Model X could spur other automakers to build electric crossovers, and could even boost overall EV sales. But he agreed with Smith that the Model X, while impressive, won’t have the impact that a real mass market vehicle could have.“The EV SUV segment is something that needs to happen,” he said. “We’ve seen EV sales dip. In addition to range anxiety, there have also been only sedans and compacts on the market.”Tesla Motors has two notably huge promises to fulfill: the mass market-oriented Model 3 and the Gigafactory – a large battery production facility. Musk said last month that the Model 3 would be unveiled next spring, with production to begin in 2017. The Gigafactory is under construction in the Nevada desert and isn’t expected to be operational before next year.“With the Gigafactory, there’s a lot of uncertainty as to what it’s going to do for Tesla,” Smith said. “If it gets them higher scale, that’s important, but I’m not sure that it will get them a truly cost-competitive battery.”As Tesla works on the Model 3, its competitors are also busy. At the Detroit auto show in January, General Motorsintroduced the Bolt, an electric compact it said would drive 200 miles on a charge, at a price point closer to $30,000 after alternative energy tax rebates. Nissan has also promised an improved version of its Leaf EV, one at last capable of triple-digit range. GM has also beefed up the Chevrolet Volt, a gas-electric hybrid that compromises on pure electric driving to bring the technology within reach of a wider array of potential customers. With 53 miles of pure electric driving range, it can also travel more than 350 miles on a gas-powered generator – much farther than any of the more expensive Tesla models can go.Only time will tell if Tesla is able to live up to its grand promises, but for the time being, Smith said he thinks Musk has been more or less on target with other goals. Bearing that in mind, there’s a good chance the automaker could hit its broader production goals, too.“It’s a whole new game when you’re going from a $130,000 car to a $30,000 one,” he said. “Tesla needs to go from niche producer to mass market producer, and that’s certainly a challenge.”For now, the Model X tickles America’s crossover fancy, if at a distance for most car shoppers. As fuel prices increase, truck, SUV and large crossover sales are likely to fall and hybrid and EV sales to rise. With the stars aligned in such a way, a mass market car from Tesla could help the company prove that it truly is a game changer.• This story was amended on 9 October 2015 to clarify the price of the Tesla Model X base and fully loaded versions, and to correct the electric driving range of the Chevrolet Volt.
For the first time since it introduced its own ad-blocking support, Apple has approved an app which allows users to block adverts inside mobile apps – even the company’s own ad-supported Apple News.The app, named Been Choice, is only available on the US app store, where it arrived on Tuesday. It uses the new ad-blocking features included in the latest version of Apple’s mobile operating system to let users block adverts in the Safari web browser, similar to other adblockers such as Crystal or Purity.But where Been Choice differs from those apps is its addition of a second mode, which allows users to block ads in apps as well as the mobile browser. That mode works by funnelling all the phone’s web traffic through a virtual private network (VPN) run by Been themselves, which then strips out the adverts before they arrive at the user’s phone.Technologically, the feature uses a tool included in iOS to let businesses ensure their employees only connect to their networks in a secure manner.It is unclear whether Apple even knew the feature was included in Been Choice when it approved the app. The company has not replied to a request for comment, but the Guardian understands from developer testimony that the app-store approval process is frequently minimal. Been Choice mentions that it can block adverts in-app in the text of its iTunes store page, but includes no screenshots showing the functionality directly.When a similar app, Adblock Plus, attempted to block ads in-app on Android,Google removed it from the storesaying that it “interferes with or accesses another service or product in an unauthorised manner”. Other apps which work in the same way as Been Choice have also been on the Apple App Store for some time, however: one,Adbl0ck Mobilehas been on the store since November 2014.Related:Apple removes adblockers that work on Facebook and other third-party appsBoth apps trade one problem for another, however. While they successfully strip adverts from most sites and apps, in doing so they require the user to funnel all their net traffic through the developer’s servers. For some users, that may be a step too far in terms of trust, although Been’s co-founder, Dave Yoon, promised that the company wouldn’t store any of the intercepted information:“While we inspect headers and the body, no user content is stored, and our filtering is done on the fly,”he told TechCrunch. “This approach may be more familiar in its corporate form. For example, companies use deep packet inspection on their managed devices to ensure that sensitive information never leaves internal corporate networks.”•This piece was updated to clarify that Been Choice was not the first app to use VPNs to block adverts.
For most of us, how we perceive the internet is significantly shaped by the language used to describe it: say “web” and dew-dropped silk comes to mind, “net” and woven knots of string, “information superhighway” and bright cars racing in the dark.These names describe a system of disparate machines, giving shape to the network. Which name we choose has a large effect on how we perceive the structures that carry all our photos and emails and bank balances and work and subscriptions and love letters and affairs and charity donations.With the shift in the infrastructure as all this information became stored remotely came a shift in language, and of perception. Now so central to our lives, how did the language of the internet, and the cloud, evolve?What is ‘the cloud’?The symbols on our screens are things we can manipulate in the real world: cogs, pulleys, files, magnifying glasses, binoculars, waste paper bins, compasses, calendars. These pictures use pre-digital imagery as a way to represent invisible processes. “You may not be able to see what is really happening inside this box,” they tell us. “But it is in your control.”When computers first spread in use, these symbols made it easier for technology companies to communicate what our machines were doing. Many of these symbols are still used today. A quick glance over the screen of my laptop takes in cameras, stamps and interlaced gears. The original objects may be gone – my work is tucked into files with no filing cabinet in sight – but the symbols remain like hieroglyphics.If the tendency up to now has been to ground computer-based interactions in the language of industry, the symbolism of the cloud goes in the opposite direction. A semantic shift is occurring, away from tactile objects towards boundless ether. “You may not be able to see what is really happening inside your rectangle,” the cloud tells us. “But it doesn’t matter. It doesn’t even happen in there any more. It happens in something you cannot hope to grip.”The irony, of course, is that you can grip it. The cloud is not an invisible layer of data. It is a network of clumpy buildings packed full of servers. Cloud computing involves using a network of remote computers to process and store data instead of a single machine, but it is still a physical process. Facebook doesn’t store its vast stockpile of photos in air. It stores it in enormous data centres in North Carolina, Oregon and Sweden. Google has data centres in remote Finland, Oregon and Iowa to name a few. Where is your data? It could be in any one of these locations, and is most likely in several of them.Privacy in the etherAs a term, the cloud has been around since at least 1996, when Compaq Computer engineers published a paper on the benefits of investing in what they referred to as “cloud computing-enabled applications”. One year later, Steve Jobstalkedabout moving storage from local machines to shared servers. Fast forward to 2011 and Google introduced the Chromebook – a laptop with the majority of data and applications living on the cloud. By the time we get to the present day, Dropbox, Google Drive, iCloud and OneDrive all offer remote storage solutions. As less data is stored on hard drives, our private lives increasingly centre on the cloud.As a name, the cloud is at once a fluffy, approachable means to digest a global network of servers. It is also a vague, formless entity that grows and shrinks above our heads. In terms of privacy, it represents an important change in how we think about our data; stored in the arms of an invisible force, at once everywhere and nowhere.Laurence Scott, author of The Four-Dimensional Human, tells me: “To me the most striking thing about the semantics of the cloud is how the amorphousness it promises is in direct opposition to the commercial and political agendas at play within it.“The last thing corporations or governments who are mining our data would want is for us to manifest online as ethereal creatures: our personal data is prized for the vivid, defined portraits it produces of us, as consumers and, perhaps secondly, citizens.”Scott’s book investigates the ways the digital world is rewiring our thoughts and perceptions. He writes about the way social media encourages us to engage “in a 24/7 news cycle of the self”, and that this perpetual broadcasting of dinners, bus trips, dates and museum visits leads us to approach situations in terms of social currency. He tells me, for example, about a student of his who looked up at Westminster Abbey and called it “grammable”.As Scott suggests, there is an opposition between the supposed ethereality of the cloud and the indexed information held by its owners. The name leads us to believe our data is stored in a sublime, liminal dimension. In reality, that data is living in servers under the control of Amazon, Google, Facebook and so on. Our “grammable” images are subject to their privacy agreements, their security systems, and we therefore hand over our information with the trust that it won’t leak or be shared against our wishes. But the semantics of the cloud make it a much easier pill to swallow, encouraging us not to worry about who or what actually has control of our data.This isn’t to say that those companies have shady intentions in mind, but the symbol they use is nevertheless a mirage. If icons on the internet have previously aimed at elucidating a vast network of integrated machines and processes, the cloud signals a movement towards incomprehensibility. “You can touch your screen as much as you like,” it says, “but what happens away from that is out of your hands.“Don’t worry. You wouldn’t understand it anyway.”
Social network LinkedIn has agreed to pay $13m to users to settle a class-action lawsuit accusing it of sending too many unsolicited emails to users.The lawsuit took issue with LinkedIn’s “add connections” feature, which lets users import their personal contacts into the social network (the source of the infamous subject line “I’d like to add you to my professional network on LinkedIn”).If a user didn’t reply to those emails, LinkedIn followed them up with two further ones again inviting them to join the site.But while the emails are annoying for the recipients, it’s actually the “senders” – the users in whose name the emails were sent – who led the lawsuit. The grounds for complaint were twofold: while those users may have given permission for the initial invitation to be sent out, they didn’t give explicit consent for the following two messages or for their name and image to be used in them.The suit complains that: “Despite the appearance of the endorsement emails, the users do not compose the message, they do not consent to LinkedIn sending multiple messages on their behalf, and they are not compensated for the use of their name or likeness in the advertising or promotion of LinkedIn.”The $13m settlement is filtering down to LinkedIn users in the US as a result of the class-action, and on Monday the site notified eligible users that they could have a claim (the notifications, naturally, were sent by email). The amount users will receive has not yet been set,according to an open letter from the lawyers leading the class-action suit, but could be as low as $10 – or even lower. However, “if the number of approved claims results in a payment amount of less than $10 [per person], LinkedIn will pay an additional amount up to $750,000 into the fund”, the lawyers add.The “add connections” feature is one of the most infamous features of LinkedIn. The statement “I’d like to add you to my professional network” has become a recognised, and widely mocked, phrase. In September,New York-based designer Frank Chimero realisedthat the line works as a universal punchline to New Yorker-style editorial cartoons.pic.twitter.com/9r6KdvoKPL&mdash; Frank Chimero (@frank_chimero)September 22, 2015@frank_chimeropic.twitter.com/5IoRsoZGGb&mdash; Frank Chimero (@frank_chimero)September 22, 2015pic.twitter.com/L2KQhUd8vf&mdash; Frank Chimero (@frank_chimero)September 22, 2015In a statement, LinkedIn said that the lawsuit made “a number of false allegations”, but that it had decided to settle anyway. “Based on its review of LinkedIn’s product, thecourt agreedthat these allegations were false and found that LinkedIn’s members gave permission to share their email contacts with LinkedIn and to send invitations to connect on LinkedIn. Because the court also suggested that we could be more clear about the fact that we send reminder emails about pending invitations from LinkedIn members, we have made changes to our product and Privacy Policy.“Ultimately, we decided to resolve this case so that we can put our focus where it matters most: finding additional ways to improve our members’ experiences on LinkedIn. In doing so, we will continue to be guided by our core value – putting our Members First.”
It’s Wednesday!
Ireland has said it plans to investigate the transfer of data on Facebook users in Europe to the United States after an EU court invalidated the “safe harbour” provisions under which it took place.It follows a request by Austrian citizen Max Schrems to the Irish data protection commissioner to investigate if there was adequate protection of his data transferred to the US by Facebook, which has its European headquarters in Dublin.Related:What is 'safe harbour' and why did the EUCJ just declare it invalid?In a landmark ruling on Tuesday the European court of justice struck down the “safe harbour” arrangements with the US amid concerns it gives American intelligence agencies access to European citizens’ data.“The judgement has clarified that it is now for the data protection commissioner to revisit Mr Schrems’s complaint and carry out the necessary investigations,” said Dara Murphy, the Irish data protection minister.Meanwhile, the Irish data protection commissioner Helen Dixon has instructed her legal team “to take whatever actions are necessary to bring the case back as soon as practicable before the Irish high court”.It is likely the commissioner will then launch a full investigation into Schrems’s complaints.Schrems went to the high court in Ireland after the commissioner refused to investigate his concerns on the grounds the “safe harbour” system, which allowed tech companies to send personal data to the US, was overseen by the European commission.The case judge subsequently referred the case to the European court of justice which ultimately struck down “safe harbour”.Dixon said: “The issues dealt with in the judgment are complex.“In declaring the old “sSafe Harbour” rules invalid, however, the significance of the judgment extends far beyond the case presently pending in Ireland.”Murphy said there was now an opportunity “to set robust global standards for the protection of personal data”.“The legitimate and safe use of personal data, and indeed the need for data transfer must always be balanced with strong standards for the protection for personal data,” Murphy said.With Agence France-Presse
Microsoft is bringing “the thunder”. That was the message sent to its competitors today, when Microsoft unveiled its Windows 10 devices, including the new Surface Pro 4 and Surface Book, challenging Apple’s dominance at the top end of the laptop market.“We have competitors, you might have noticed. They are chasing us,” Panos Panay, head of engineering of all Microsoft devices, said during the hour-and-a-half-long presentation. “What do you do? Do you double down and bring the thunder or do you reinvent the category again?”It seems that the company chose to do both and did not shy from making comparisons with rival Apple, a company whose glitzy presentations have in the past left Microsoft looking stale.Microsoft introduces it’s latest technology.Surface BookAccording to Panay, compared to MacBook Pro, Surface Book is twice as fast. In his demo of the device, he transferred 3GB of data in just four seconds by using a Surface connection – eliciting a number of “whoas” from the audience. The demo came with its own dig at Apple – a number of which were sprinkled throughout the presentation – an image of a toaster-fridge hybrid.@maryjofoley,@alex,@thurrott,@tomwarrenhope you enjoy the show today…pay attention – some new things might pop uppic.twitter.com/yHbgfLNyfN&mdash; Terry Myerson (@tmyerson)October 6, 2015The image was a clear reference to Apple CEO Tim Cook’s comments about tablet-laptops like Surface. “You can converge a toaster and a refrigerator, but those things are probably not gonna be pleasing to the user,” Cook said in 2012.Surface Book is the first Microsoft laptop. It comes with a 6th gen Intel Core i5 or i7 processor and up to 1TB of storage.It is “the most powerful laptop on the planet”, according to Panay. However, it’s not just a laptop. The 13.5in touchscreen is detachable and works with the Surface Pro 4 dock. The device was designed for everyone – from gamers to architects to scientists to coders, he said.Surface Book.“I have been using it and it just blows me away. The typing experience on this product is perfect,” said Panay. The laptop comes with a precision glass trackpad that comes with five points of touch, which Panay said “feels so lovely”. “We know what comfort is. We brought it all to the table.”If there is one thing that will impress potential customers, it will be the battery life, which does not drain when the device is closed.Surface Book, which will officially launch on 26 October and costs $1,499, will be available for pre-orders on 7 October.HoloLensAt the very beginning of the presentation, Microsoft demonstrated the latest skills of HoloLens, its mixed reality gaming system. HoloLens creates holograms that you can hold and that move as you move your hand– making them into basically wearable holograms.HoloLens is expected to launch sometime during the first quarter of 2016, with a price tag of $3,000.Microsoft Band 2.Photograph: MicrosoftBandNot exactly a rival to the AppleWatch, the Microsoft Band 2 is geared more toward the health-conscious consumers.The band is designed to be a “big part of your health story”, said Lindsey Matese, senior communications manager for Microsoft Band and Health. It was designed for golfers, cyclists, runners and “gym rats”. Users will be able to track exercise, calorie intake and sleep. The band also tracks elevation.Band, which costs $249, is available for pre-orders and will officially launch on 30 October.LumiaThe Surface Pro 4 and Surface Book may have stolen the spotlight on Tuesday, but it’s the Lumia phones that could really help Microsoft break into a new market given that Microsoft has just 3% of the global mobile phone market.As expected, the company announced the Lumia 950 with 5.2in display and Lumia 950XL with 5.7in display. Each comes with a 20 megapixel camera and a flash technology that, according to Panay, will get rid of red-eye and make you look like a human and not a ghost.The phones come with USB-C connector chargers, which provide fast charging: 50% charge in less than 30 minutes. Both phones can run universal Windows 10 apps, including Office, Edge, OneDrive and Cortana.Microsoft hopes that the new phones will appeal to business users.“This is supposed to be the most productive phone you’ve ever picked up,” said Panay.The main demo for the phones consisted of turning them into mini-computers by plugging one into a display deck, which basically transformed it into a desktop.Both phones will be available in November, Lumia 950 for $549 and Lumia 950 XL for $649.Microsoft’s Surface Book.Photograph: MicrosoftSurface Pro 4“This is the thinnest and most powerful core PC ever to ship,” said Panay. The display is 12.3 inches and is capable of displaying more than five million pixels.Surface Pro 4 comes with a fingerprint sensor, new pen, a quieter key board and bigger glass trackpad. It’s 8.4mm thick and the only reason it’s not thinner, according to Panay, is because of the USB ports.Surface Pro 4 is 30% faster than the Pro 3 and 50% faster than a Macbook Air, according to Microsoft.As with other products, preorders start on 7 October, with the official launch on 26 October. Surface Pro 4 starts at $899.PenAfter Apple introduceda pencilfor its iPod Pro, Microsoft rolled out a new surface pen. It comes in multiple colors and with interchangeable tips for different pen types – drawing, sketching, writing, etc. The pen, which comes with Surface Pro 4, slides into the surface for easy storage and has a year-long battery life and an eraser.“We put an eraser on the pen,” said Pansay. “It’s kind of funny, there’s a pencil out there without an eraser.”
The Atlantic Ocean just got a little wider. The European Court of Justice’s latest ruling has determined that the US “does not afford an adequate level of protection of personal data”.The case brought against Facebook over the potential for US government snooping on European citizens’ data, throws the differences in internet culture into stark relief. But those differences have been growing for some time.Until Tuesday, it had been US companies – principally Google and Facebook – that had been driving the wedge in. In 2012 GoogleenragedEuropean privacy regulators by declaring that it would unite data from its different services,mashing different privacy agreements into one. (The row is still going on.)Then in 2014 the European Court of Justice declared that Google, as a “data processor” was covered by the data protection principles, and so must remove links about people from its search index that were “outdated, incorrect or irrelevant” (though with exceptions for public figures). Google has implemented the so-called “right to be forgotten” more or less, but the ruling infuriated many in the US.Facebook has set data protection authorities from around Europe on edge. An investigation followed the Dutch data protection authority asking Facebook to delay rollout of its new privacy policy, while the Belgian data protection authority recently took the social network to court over its use of cookies and tracking.Now the ECJ has ruled again, and once more highlighted the gulf in attitudes either side of the pond. “Safe harbour” ostensibly means that a European citizen’s personal data being processed by a US company on US-based computers is under the same protections as if it were still in Europe on a European-owned system. But the ECJ says it doesn’t protect that data from US government snooping – and so cannot be allowed.The problem with safe harbour is that the US government now treats any data on computers of US-owned companies anywhere in the world as fair game for examination. Microsoft, in fact, isvigorously appealinga court case won (in the US) by the US government, which asserts that it has the right to access data held in one of the company’s Irish data centres. Safe harbour applied, in theory, to US companies but not to the US government; now the edifice has come crashing down.To privacy activists, the surprise is that it has taken so long: “Safe harbour was flawed in principle and flawed in practice,” said Joe McNamee, executive director of European Digital Rights, a pressure group for digital civil rights drawn from 19 European countries. “After last year’s data retention ruling, this is the second time in two years that the Court of Justice has struck down an instrument that the European Commission had spent years defending.” (The first was therejection of the Data Retention directive, which had been favoured particularly by the UK government.)The fallout could be dramatic. In August 2013, soon after Edward Snowden’s revelations about the NSA’s indiscriminate gathering of data from US companies, US technology businesses began fretting. If Europeans, and European businesses, thought that they couldn’t trust the US to look after their information, they could lose huge amounts of business –estimated thenat between $21.5bn and $35bn through to next year.The US-based Cloud Security Alliance, which represented companies there offering file storage and internet-based computing, thought it could lose between 10% and 20% of its market to rivals. It was already seeing contracts being lost to European rivals who could promise Europe-based processing. Things are probably going to get worse for them.Jim Killock, executive director of the Open Rights Group, commented: “In the face of the Snowden revelations, it is clear that safe harbour is not worth the paper its written on. We need a new agreement that will protect EU citizens from mass surveillance by the NSA.”The ruling hasn’t been a surprise; it was foreshadowed last month by a summary ruling which was confirmed on Tuesday, but its progress to the ECJ has been slow, in theory giving any affected company time to adjust. Thus the larger companies – Google, Facebook, Apple, Microsoft, Twitter – are well-placed to deal with the fallout.Those who will lose out are the smaller companies, and startups that had been planning to use something like Amazon’s AWS cloud services. The nature of cloud systems is that data is transferred promiscuously, both to create resilience and speed up access elsewhere. One possible solution is to encrypt the data using keys which remain on servers in Europe; that will carry performance penalties, but might satisfy the letter of the law.In the longer term, the bigger problem will be the gap that is opening between the US and Europe. Privacy policies with teeth, the “right to be forgotten”, the desire to keep data inside Europe - all are at odds with the US’s treatment of data, which is more cavalier. That has helped the US to leap ahead in its development of systems, but also seen a swelling tide of resentment in the US at the burgeoning amount of individuals’ data collected and traded, and sometimes stolen. Will Europe act as the example for the US to follow? History suggests not – which means the cultural gap is going to get wider.
All the new story content for the next year of Destiny, Bungie’s first new franchise since it launched Halo in 2001, will be free, as the company continues with a major overhaul of the multiplayer online game following its troubled first year.To make up for the lost revenue from giving away the content for free, Bungie has announced plans to introduce microtransactions to the game for the first time, letting users spend real money to buy cosmetic items such as character gestures and visual changes to their “Sparrow” hover bike in game.Microtransactions are often viewed with suspicion by players, and Bungie seems keen to emphasise that the purchases, from the in-game Eververse Trading Company, will have no effect on the broader game. “If you’re not interested in what [the in-game vendor] has to offer, you won’t ever be forced to pluck an item off of her shelf,”the developers wrote. “You’ll still receive updates to the game, and you won’t lose a Crucible encounter or fail to clear a Raid because you didn’t have the right Eververse Trading Company emote equipped.”The revenue model established throughout the first year was a major release, followed by two smaller minor releases, andleaked slidessuggested that the initial plan was to continue that model into year two. Instead, the company seems to have decided that the minor releases – which retailed for £20 each in the UK, and were widely criticised for being overpriced given the content contained within – are best delivered in bits and pieces, free of charge.Bungie says the microtransaction revenue will fund those expansions: “Our plan is to use these new items to bolster the service provided by our live team for another full year, as they grow and create more robust and engaging events that we’ll announce later this year. It has been, and continues to be, our goal to deliver updates to the game. Going forward, our live team is also looking to grow beyond vital updates and improvements to focus on world events, experiences, and feature requests.”In doing so, the change takes Destiny closer to the model of World of Warcraft, the ground-breaking massively multiplayer online game which entered its second decade last year. Warcraft offers major new content in paid-for expansion packs, and then drops smaller “content patches” periodically, which progress the story of the game world. Unlike Destiny, however, Warcraft still charges a monthly subscription fee for players – although that fee can be paid using in-game currencies.
Twitter has launched Moments, a new service which hopes to show users the day’s most popular stories, as the 140-character social network takes a stab at news curation.The new button in the middle of the app marked by a lightning bolt brings users a curated, magazine-style view filled with comments, images and videos pulled from users on the ground and news organisations’ Twitter feeds.The Moments tab shows stories curated by a small editorial team based at Twitter in New York. The tab is divided into sections including “today” and news, sports and entertainment.It forms part of Twitter’s attempts to make its service more appealing for novice users or those that have used Twitter and then left, feeling a lack of engagement.Madhu Muthukumar, Twitter’sproduct manager for Moments, said: “We know finding these only-on-Twitter moments can be a challenge, especially if you haven’t followed certain accounts. But it doesn’t have to be.“Moments helps you find the best of Twitter as easily as tapping an icon – regardless of who you follow.”The new feature is being rolled out to US users across Twitter’s Android, iOS and web apps right now, although users outside of the US can view them if sent a link. Twitter plans to roll the localised feature out to Europe at a later date.Moments are created around topics or events. Twitter’s chief financial officer,Anthony Noto,tweeted some examples, including a Moment reviewing theSeattle Seahawks victory over the Detroit Lions last night, which pulled in videos and photos from before, during and after the game from teams, players, fans and sports commentators.Twitter Moment celebrating the Seahawks win.Each moment is led with a small summary of the news, written by Twitter.Moments can be shared or embedded, and while they are currently being generated by Twitter itself, the plan is to have media companies generate their own and allow Twitter to curate them.Twitter is initially partnering with the Bleacher Report, BuzzFeed, Entertainment Weekly, Fox News, Getty Images, Mashable, Major League Baseball, Nasa, the New York Times, Vogue and the Washington Post.With Twitter having confirmed founderJack Dorsey as chief executiveon Monday, after turmoil following Dick Costolo’s stepping down, Moments is Twitter’s attempt to show users and Wall Street that it can continue to innovate and attract new users.Jack’s back: 11 things the new Twitter CEO needs to improveJack Dorsey confirmed as Twitter CEO
The room went quiet, as if everyone had just held their breath. Sergey Brin, Google’s co-founder, had just walked in wearing Crocs. I think it was the fact it was billionaire Brin, rather than the Crocs. Brin has the loosest of schedules and works on whatever takes his fancy. This morning it was self-driving cars. Regularly deferring to his engineers for the detail, Brin was there to emphasise how important and impressive the technology is, as if we needed reminding.I asked Brin how he planned to humanise the technology, how to take it beyond Google’s privileged and pro-technology bubble into a real world where citizens are more sceptical and less trusting. He looked disappointed with the question.“I’d explain to them the benefits. Our mothers might be having a hard time driving and still want to get around. It’s important to have that mobility, so I’d just explain it’s an affordable way to get from here to there that is safe,” he said, and quickly moved on to more comfortable questions about the American love affair with the automobile. If something as brilliant as Google is asking you to put your life in the hands of its software, then just do it and stop asking stupid questions about human beings.Related:Self-driving cars: from 2020 you will become a permanent backseat driverThe car oozed to a halt in front of me. I opened the oversized door, put my bag on the floor and took a seat next to my fellow journalist, Dave. The inside had more floorspace than most London toilets, and a big storage bucket where the steering wheel and dashboard weren’t. Instead we had a small screen showing our route, a few buttons to open the windows and a large red panic button. “No photos or video, and please don’t remove your seatbelts,” our chaperone instructed. That sounded ominous, but we trusted she hadn’t programmed a route on this rooftop test circuit to dispose of two tiresome British journalists.Google’s prototype self-driving electric cars, of which the company had 50 built in Detroit, have been driving on the streets of Mountain View, California, since June. Designed, I suspect, to look as unintimidating and benign as possible, the cars verge on cutesy, in softly rounded white plastic with large headlamp eyes and big windows. But Toytown they are not, with a sophisticated triage of 360-degree lasers, radar and cameras that scan its surroundings as it drives, creating a complex 3D image of its environment up to three football fields away.Analysing that environment, it identifies and categorises vehicles, cyclists, pedestrians, traffic signals and the road network, calculating movement and response according to its knowledge of road rules and applying a conservative driving style. Road safety statistics inform that driving style; most accidents at intersections happen in the first second after the lights turn green, so the car waits one second before pulling away.The strongest case for self-driving cars is safety, its logical, programmed movement also means vehicles can be centrally controlled, rerouting traffic away from congestion. Since the project started in 2009, Google has driven most of its 1.2m hours of tests in a small fleet of customised Lexus autonomous cars. As of July this year, there had been 14 accidents but all had been caused by human error, not by the software. Around 33,000 people die in traffic accidents in the US every year; Google says self-driving cars will reduce that number significantly. The opportunities are, indisputably, immense.The hard sell for Google will be winning over generations of people who feel safer being in control of their vehicle, don’t know or care enough about the technology, or who simply enjoy driving. Yet most people who try a demo say the same thing: how quickly the self-driving car feels normal, and safe. As the head of public policy quipped, “perhaps we just need to do demos for 7 billion people”. Google’s systems engineer Jaime Waydo helped put self-driving cars on Mars while she worked at Nasa; it may well be that regulation and public policy prove easier there than on Earth.If Google is asking you to put your life in its hands, just do it and stop asking stupid questions about human beingsAnd before it can get to the public, Google has to get through the regulators. In taking on the auto industry, Google has some mighty pitched battles ahead, not least the radical changes it implies for the insurance industry (who will find the number of accident claims dropping sharply), car makers (who will become partners with Google to equip their autonomous cars) and the labour issues of laying off a whole class of drivers, from cabs to haulage. But Google has already pre-empted the scrutiny of regulators, inventing a new parent company called Alphabet that will allow its specialist businesses to be built more independently. And Google is already thethird biggest lobbyist in the US, spending $10m in the first half of 2015 alone.There’s no reason why Brin himself should have the answer on how to take his company’s technology to the masses. Our expectations are defined by the myth of the founder, and we like to buy into the idea that these be-Crocced geniuses have some all-knowing power, where in fact they were privileged, smart and got lucky. But that is increasingly the biggest challenge for technology firms, in not only being able to explore and exploit the opportunity of technology using their significant resources and brainpower, but in knowing how to win the confidence of citizens. Would you feel safe in a self-driving car?
Reddit hasannounced its move into news publishing(along with everyone else) with the launch of standalone site, Upvoted. The new site intends to capitalise on the popular content posted toReddit, which is often picked up by other online media organisations.Upvoted will be headed by former MySpace editorial directorVickie Chang, in charge of a team of around 10. Initially, the site hopes to produce around 20 stories a day, increasing to 40 later.Despite its name, Upvoted will also not permit the rating of content (up or down-voting) – a cornerstone of how the native community operates and how posts reach a wider audience, with the holy grail to land onReddit’s front page(self-styled “the front page of the internet”).Nor will Upvoted allow comments. Reddit, as we know, is all about comments, and the community has often been in trouble for a certain element of hostile and abusive contributions to threads.A look at the new Upvoted site, Reddit’s attempt at a standalone news presence.Photograph: Reddit/WIRED.comReddit is hoping that by aggregating the most popular user-generated content into stories on its own site it can wrestle back control from traditional media organisations, which frequently lift from Reddit boards for quick stories – sometimes without credit or sourcing. The content lifted often brings in a lot of traffic – and advertising revenue - to other organisations.Speaking toWIRED.com, which is owned by Condé Nast, whose parent company Atlantic Publications has majority shares in Reddit, Chang said Upvoted would publish written pieces, stories, videos, infographics, podcasts and illustrations, covering “news, sports,animalsand lifestyle issues”.Our users’ stories need to be toldVickie ChangAll stories will link back to Reddit, crediting the original source of the material. A dedicated subreddit, r/upvoted, will be established to house the content chosen for Upvoted and allows users to comment on Reddit itself.“Everything will have a direct tie back to Reddit,” Chang said. A statement from Reddit to WIRED also addressed the issue of other news organisations profiting from Reddit’s content:“The stuff our community creates on a daily basis blows our mind. Unfortunately, rather than telling that story, some news outlets take our users’ content and repackage it as their own.“They don’t tell the backstory of our communities. We think our users’ stories need to be told, but with them at the centre of it.”Upvoted.com will aggregate content from Reddit, linking back to the community.Photograph: Reddit/WIRED.comIt’s hoped that Upvoted might prove a source of profit for Reddit, whose reputation for controversial and sometimes distasteful content dissuades advertisers and has even lead to splits within the company.Moderators revolted after the firing of AMA (ask me anything) head Victoria Taylor. Soon after, interim chief executiveEllen Pao resigned, after calling out the “ugly” content which made her “doubt humanity” on some Reddit threads and facing misogynistic and racist abuse.Upvoted will not host banner adverts but will run sponsored content, or so-called native advertising approved by brands.“They’re going to be just as interesting as actual content,” Chang said of the branded content. “It could be a piece on Tesla, a piece on how Wifi works, no matter what it’ll be good content – and it’ll just happened to be sponsored.”Upvoted.com is slated to launch later on Tuesday, (the site is not yet live with the domain directing to a Wordpress holding page) – but the Guardian was told by one contributor that the project has been kept heavily under wraps. The Guardian has contacted Reddit for comment.•How Ellen Pao lost her job but survived Reddit’s swamp of trolls
TheEuropean Court of Justice has ruledthat the “safe harbour” agreement that allowed the transfer of European citizens data to the US is no longer valid. But what does that mean for the Facebooks, Googles and Microsofts of this world?In a two-year-old case forced to the EU’s highest court by Austrian privacy campaigner Max Schrems, the EUCJ ruled that the European Commission’s trans-Atlantic data protection agreement that went into force in 2000 was invalid because it does not adequately protect consumers in the wake of the Snowden revelations.What was the ‘safe harbour’ agreement?EU privacy law forbids the movement of its citizens’ data outside of the EU, unless it is transferred to a location which is deemed to have “adequate” privacy protections in line with those of the EU.The safe harbour agreement that was made between the EC and the US government essentially promised to protect EU citizens’ data if transferred by American companies to the US.It allowed companies such as Facebook to self-certify that they would protect EU citizens’ data when transferred and stored within US data centres.Patrick Van Eecke, co-head of the global privacy practice DLA Piper said: “The advantage of safe harbour was that it functioned as a kind of ‘one stop shop’ allowing for the export of personal data to the US, whoever in Europe it came from, without the need to ask for consent, or to enter into bilateral agreements, over and over again.”Can data still be transferred to the US?Now that the 2000 agreement has been called invalid, American companies – including Google, Facebook, Apple and Microsoft – can no longer rely on self-certification and must seek to strike “model contract clauses” in each case. These agreements authorise the transfer of data outside of Europe.Monique Goyens, director general of the European Consumer Organisation said: “In essence, if Facebook, Google et al. wish to continue sending Europeans’ personal data over the Atlantic they will just have to guarantee an adequate level of protection in line with EU rules.”The impact on large US technology companies and their operations within the EU is likely to be limited to a large amount of paperwork. Many will already have model contract clauses already drawn up. Others may be forced to stop the transfer of data to the US until they have.Many US companies have established or are in the process of building EU-based data centres to handle data for EU citizens, including Facebook, Apple and Google. The search company, for instance, lists four data centres within Europe, including one in Ireland.What about Facebook?For Facebook, which has been placed at the centre of this case by Schrems, the decision means that the Irish data protection authority (DPA) will be forced to investigate the Austrian’s claims and Facebook’s data protection practices.“[The Irish DPA must]decide whether ... transfer of the data of Facebook’s European subscribers to the US should be suspended on the grounds that that country does not afford an adequate level of protection of personal data,” the EUCJ said.Will I notice anything different?The impact on users in the short term is unlikely to be obvious. The dissolution of the agreement will, in theory, ensure better data protection for users’ personal information going forward. It may also help stop the US government from being able to gain access to user data from the EU.Sites and services such as Facebook are highly unlikely to be disrupted to any meaningful level. But it may open the door to further probes, complaints and lawsuits from users and data regulators.What about cloud services?The companies most affected are likely to be smaller, less financially and technologically able companies. Many use US-based cloud services to store or process data that they could not do themselves. It is the 21st century equivalent of outsourcing.Those companies will have to abide by the same systems as Facebook and Google, agreeing model contract clauses and ensuring that the service they are using, such as Amazon’s web services, also complies with data protection regulations.Despite being standard and essentially fixed agreements, getting them approved before transferring data will be both a financial and administrative burden.Will a new safe harbour agreement be needed?The ruling did not come completely out of the blue – it’s a ratification of the EU’sAdvocate General’s opinion on Safe Harbour– but was not expected quite so soon.A new safe harbour agreement is currently being negotiated between the EU and US, and has been in negotiation for the last two years, following the Snowden revelations.The EU has been trying to limit the US government’s access to EU citizens’ data stored in the US and to allow EU citizens to sue US companies in US courts should they misuse their data.The EU has been using the threat of vetoing future trade agreements as a stick, but an agreement has yet to be struck. The new ruling is likely to light a fire under the proceedings as a new agreement is needed to help lubricate international trade in services.Some analysts see the EUCJ’s ruling as likely to hurt, not help, the new safe harbour negotiations.Van Eecke: “By tweaking and fine-tuning the existing safe harbour system and adding a layer of solid enforcement we could come to a workable solution. This is exactly what the government officials are working on, but which now risks to be impeded by the court’s decision.”What happens if one can’t be made?Should the US attempt to derail a new safe harbour agreement, it is US companies aiming to expand beyond US borders that are likely to be impacted. European companies may also see access to advanced cloud services restricted, although the move to data centres situated in Europe will ease the situation.In the meantime encryption may hold the answer to maintaining data transfer while a new agreement is put in place.Nigel Hawthorn, from cloud security company Skyhigh Networks, said: “Organisations need to investigate technologies such as encryption or risk being dragged through the courts by privacy advocates, customers or employees.Tokenisingor encrypting data flows before they are sent to the cloud, and keeping the keys on premise, means all of these issues disappear. There is no ‘personal’ data in the cloud service once it has been encrypted or tokenised.”Leave Facebook if you don’t want to be spied on, warns EULandmark ECJ data protection ruling could impact Facebook and Google
Peeple, the controversial app that promised to let users “review” other people and give them a rating out of five, has softened its offering just weeks before its planned launch.The company had previously scheduled the launch of the new social app, dubbed “Yelp for people”, for November this year.Revealed in early October, the app promised users the ability to “revolutionise the way we’re seen in the world through our relationships”.Users could assign a star rating and feedback to anyone they knew, positive or negative, and the ratee could do very little about it. Every negative review would have been live for at least 48 hours, and in order to remove them, an individual would be encouraged to contest a negative review, leading to accusations that the app would become a libellous quagmire and a harasser’s dream.Following the criticism,Peeple’s website and social media feeds were blanked out, leading to speculation that the app was never going to see the light of day –or even that the whole thing was a hoax. But instead, it looks like it’s still on-track to launch, even earlier than expected: the new website gives a date of 12 October for the app’s release.Error: Failed to load image assetBut according toa posting on LinkedInfrom the app’s developer, a former recruitment executive named Julia Cordray, the app that hit stores might be less controversial than what was previously announced: “You will NOT be on our platform without your explicit permission. There is no 48-hour waiting period to remove negative comments. There is no way to even make negative comments. Simply stated, if you don’t explicitly say ‘approve recommendation’, it will not be visible on our platform.”The new direction leaves the app having more in common with purely positive ranking apps such as Klout and LinkedIn itself.
Facebook co-founder Mark Zuckerberg took to his own timeline on Monday to announce that the company would be providing web access … from space. A new satellite called Amos-6 will make the web accessible from big chunks of sub-Saharan Africa, orbiting over the continent and serving what Zuckerberg characterized as “large parts of west, east and southern Africa”.“Over the last year Facebook has been exploring ways to use aircraft and satellites to beam internet access down into communities from the sky,” Zuckerbergwrote. “To connect people living in remote regions, traditional connectivity infrastructure is often difficult and inefficient, so we need to invent new technologies.”Zuckerberg did not say who would provide the receivers for the satellite signal – the web still has to connect to computers with cables and local Wi-Fi, after all – merely that Facebook was “going to work with local partners across these regions to help communities begin accessing internet services provided through satellite”. The initiative is undertaken in partnership with a charity Facebook runs called Internet.org.As local markets evolve, satellite coverage is often an intermediary measure between not having any internet at all and broadband access. Internet.org asks internet service providers (ISPs) to help provide “free basics” to countries where wired internet penetration is sparse or non-existent, touting the the virtues of developing markets and appealing to the tech world’s charitable instincts.In many countries on the continent, the ISP market is beginning to boom. Until relatively recently, internet in Kenya was largely provided by satellite through a large dish in the Rift Valley; four large submarine fiber-optic cables radically changed the way the country received the web beginning in 2009 under the acronym The East African Marine System (Teams), and now several multinational internet companies have a strong presence in the country, notably Alcatel-Lucent and Fujitsu.But cable rolls out slowly and usually into densest markets first, where it can reward investment quickly. Satellite services such as Zuckerberg’s could provide a much-needed stopgap solution for large parts of the continent where those slowly approaching fiber-optic cables are a long way off.
The iPhone 6S is one of only a handful of smaller premium smartphones and promises fast performance, a great camera and new pressure-sensitive touchscreen.In a world of smartphones with screens larger than 5in, the 4.7in iPhone 6S is in the minority. Most smaller smartphones are cut-down budget models with Sony’s 4.6inXperia Z5 Compactthe exception.Small, sleek but a bit heavierThe small “S” on the back and the pink colour are the iPhone 6S’s only differentiating marks compared to last year’s iPhone.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe iPhone 6S is the spitting image of last year’s iPhone 6. Side-to-side, back-to-back the only visible difference is a small “S” printed on the back and an extra 0.2mm in thickness. Apink version is also available, of course, if you want everyone to know you have the very latest smartphone.At 143g the iPhone 6S is 14g heavier than last year’s model and the larger 5.1in 138gSamsung Galaxy S6and the 138gSony Xperia Z5 Compact. The difference is negligible.It feels reassuringly solid and smooth in the hand compared to the iPhone 6, and it is slightly less slippery. It’s right on the limit of what I can use with one hand and still reach the top of the screen, which you need to be able to do within iOS.The iPhone 6S’s screen, with 326 pixels per inch, has a relatively low pixel density compared to most other flagship smartphones. The denser the pixels, the crisper the screen appears. Lower density is particularly noticeable around text and the edges of icons.The iPhone 6S’s 4.7in screen is noticeably less sharp than the 5.5in 401ppi screen of theiPhone 6S Plus, or the 577ppi 5.1in screen of theSamsung Galaxy S6.While it is similar to theSony Xperia Z5 Compact’s 323ppi screen and you may not notice the reduced clarity unless you put it side by side with a phone like the Galaxy S6, it really is time Apple increased the pixel density of its smaller flagship phone to at least match thatof its phablet.SpecificationsScreen:4.7in 750 x 1334 pixels (326 ppi)Processor:dual-core Apple A9RAM:2GB of RAMStorage:16/64/128GB; no SD cardOperating system:iOS 9Camera:12MP rear camera, 5MP front-facing cameraConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi, NFC, Bluetooth 4.2 and GPSDimensions:138.3 x 67.1 x 7.1mmWeight:143gAs fast as an iPhone can beThe speaker in the bottom of the iPhone is one of the best sounding smartphone speakers available, but is easily blocked by a hand.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe iPhone 6S has the same dual-core A9 processor and 2GB of RAM as the 6S Plus and performs similarly.It’s as snappy as an Apple smartphone can currently be, limited by the fixed duration of iOS 9’s animations, all of which are as smooth as they were on the iPhone 6. It’s not nearly as snappy asSamsung’s Galaxy S6, which is not held back by the same animation speed limit.A couple of larger apps and heavier processes, such as video or photo editing, are slightly faster to load and get work done than last year’s iPhone. Switching between apps is also slightly faster and the Siri suggest screen on the left-most homescreen within iOS 9 also loads faster on the iPhone 6S compared to the iPhone 6.Apple claims the A9 is 70% faster than last year’s A8 but not many apps are available yet to take advantage of the extra speed.I found the iPhone 6S became warmer than theiPhone 6S Plus, particularly when downloading or accessing content via the mobile broadband connection rather than Wi-Fi.Call quality was excellent and reliable, with no dropped calls in my testing on EE’s mobile network in London. Wi-Fi calling was also excellent and only took around a second to log on when connecting to Wi-Fi.Has anyone got an iPhone charger?Battery life is poor for a top-end smartphone, meaning there will be no abatement of the periodic shouts of ‘has anyone got an iPhone charger’ across the office.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianBattery life is the iPhone 6S’s biggest problem. During the week the phone failed to make it past 11pm after leaving the charger at 7.30am in the morning.I used the iPhone as my primary device, receiving hundreds of emails and push notifications, conducting 2.5 hours of browsing, three hours of music playback via Bluetooth headphones, taking a couple of pictures and playing the odd game of Angry Birds 2 on the train home.At the weekend it spent most of the day sitting on a table untouched, but I still went to bed with only 30% charge left. Apple’s new Low Power Mode made little appreciable difference in real-world use.Apple has chosen weight and thickness over battery life, which is a poor choice. Your experience may vary, but I suspect you will have to charge the iPhone 6S twice a day.iOS 9The app switcher in iOS 9 is fast and fluid on the iPhone 6S.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe iPhone 6S comeswith iOS 9pre-installed; the same software that runs on any iPhone from the 4S and newer. There are a few features such as Live Photos and always-listening Siri which are exclusive to this year’s iPhones.iOS 9 seems better designed for the smaller phone. For example, menu options to go back are placed in the top left hand corner, which I can reach with only one hand. The tightly kerned typeface San Francisco is also designed to fit more text on a smaller screen.For more informationsee the iOS 9 review.3D Touch3D Touch senses pressure on the screen to invoke gesture-based actions, such as pop-up menus.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe new pressure-sensitive screen provides options for more gestures based on pressing harder. Generally this invokes a pop-up menu similar to a right click. Homescreen icons will show a quick action menu, while Instagram shows recent photos from users when pressing harder on their username.The “peek” and “pop” gestures, as Apple calls them, allow users to preview an email, for example, without opening it by pushing harder. Releasing and pushing harder again opens it fully. It’s useful in the Calendar app to preview a day in month view, but 3D Touch lacks any killer features for now.Touch IDThe Touch ID fingerprint sensor under the home button is much quicker than Apple’s previous efforts, unlocking in under a second and recognising my thumb 99% of the time.It makes using Apple Pay a lot faster and less clumsy, although some have complained that you can’t see notifications on the lockscreen because it unlocks too fast. That’s what an Apple Watch is for, I suppose, or you could use another finger.Taptic EngineThe Taptic Engine creates much sharper, more defined vibrations. It feels great in the hand, but I found it too weak in the pocket without switching to a much more aggressive vibration pattern in the Settings app.CameraThe 12-megapixel camera brings the iPhone up to scratch with the latest smartphone cameras from its rivals.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe iPhone 6S’s new 12-megapixel camera is one of the best available on a smartphone, but it is not leagues ahead of the competition anymore and only slightly improved over the iPhone 6.Photos are captured with good detail and excellent colour balance. Low light performance is good too, as is video recording, which is smooth when captured at 60 frames per second.The lack of optical image stabilisation whencompared to the 6S Pluswas not particularly noticeable for normal shots, but video and photos shot in low light were slightly more shaky and blurred, particularly towards the end of a night out.Recording 4K video takes up 300MB of storage space per minute, producing decent if not exceptional video, while the 3MB Live Photos are an interesting novelty of which I easily became bored. I ended up shooting more videos after becoming frustrated with the poor quality and low frame rate of Live Photos.PriceThe iPhone 6S costs £539 for 16GB of storage, £619 for 64GB and £699 for 128GB in silver, dark grey, gold and pink.Competitors such as theSamsung Galaxy S6costs £400 for 32GB of storage andSony Xperia Z5 Compactis available for pre-order costing £450 for 32GB with expansion support.No one should buy the 16GB storage versionas it is just not enough spacefor today’s apps, music, photos and video, particularly if shot in 4K or taking Live Photos.Avoid the 16GB if you have the budget.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianVerdictThe iPhone 6S has the potential to be the best smaller smartphone on the market, but its short battery life is deeply frustrating.Apple’s iOS 9 fits and works better on the 4.7in screen than on the larger iPhone 6S Plus, the bezels and size of the device compared to the screen are more suited to the smaller size and it feels great in the hand.But it can’t get you home on a night out, it can’t pull double duty as a camera on holiday and it can’t be a commuter’s boredom destroyer without a top up during the day.Pros:fast fingerprint scanner, good camera, Taptic Engine, solid build, great feelingCons:poor battery life of less than a day, expensive, 16GB is not enough storage, no OIS like the 6S Plus, vibration not intense enough to reliably notice incoming textsThe iPhone 6S is one of small handful of top-end smartphones that you can still use with one hand.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianOther reviewsiPhone 6S Plus review: barely better than the iPhone 6 PlusSony Xperia Z5 Compact review: arguably the best smaller smartphoneSamsung Galaxy S6 review: the iPhone killerSamsung Galaxy S6 Edge review: curves for pleasure, not functionHuawei P8 review: thin, powerful and undercuts the competition
It’s Tuesday.
The ride-hailing app Uber is at the centre of a crucial high court case as London’s transport authority seeks clarity on whether smartphones can lawfully be used to calculate fares.After a day hearing evidence from all sides, the judge is widely expected to give his decision on Tuesday. If he rules against Uber, the verdict will be viewed as a victory for black-cab drivers and other minicab groups who feel the disruptive tech-focused competitor hasnot been regulated firmly enoughduring its three years of rapid growth in London.Martin Chamberlain QC, appearing for Transport for London (TfL), told the judge it had taken the view from the outset that the smartphone app was lawful.But because the contrary view was arguable and the narrow point of law involved is difficult, TfL had come to the high court in London to seek clarification.Chamberlain told Mr Justice Ouseley: “TfL brings these proceedings in its capacity as the regulating authority for both private hire and (black cab) taxis in London.”Related:Boris Johnson accuses Uber of 'systematically breaking the law'The crucial issue is whether the phones, which use GPS technology and connect to external servers to carry out calculations, are taximeters, which are prohibited in private hire vehicles in London.An Uber spokesman said: “We believe the Uber app on a partner-driver’s phone is not a taximeter, and TfL – the regulator – shares this view. We are looking forward to getting binding clarity on this issue in the high court. However, the outcome of the case would not affect Uber’s licence in London or its ability to operate here.”Uber now has 18,000 registered drivers in the capital and a growing customer base, attracted by the service’s convenience and competitive fares.Butdetractors criticise its tax arrangementsand say Uber drivers are not as knowledgeable as traditional cabbies.The Guardian has also exposeda breach in its driver approvals process, described as unique by Uber.Uber, which is backed by investors including Goldman Sachs and Google Ventures, argues that a taximeter is very different to its own technology. Taximeters are closely regulated by TfL in return for black cabs getting certain privileges, which include being allowed to drive in the bus lane.The hearing included submissions from Uber London Ltd and the main trade bodies: the Licensed Taxi Drivers Association and Licensed Private Hire Car Association.Black-cab drivers, several of whom were in court on Monday along with Uber’s UK head, Jo Bertram,have demonstrated in the capitalagainst TfL’s handling of regulation for private hire companies, in particular Uber, and suggested that the ride-sharing app puts public safety at risk.Uber has hit out against proposals to tighten private hire regulation followingTfL’s launch of a consultationon a series of measures that would affect minicab drivers in London.
1. Decide what Twitter is and what it isn’t, and whether 140 characters is still enoughTwitter’s character limit dates back to the days of SMS messaging: it’s long enough to include the whole message, an 18 character username, one colon and one space per 160 character text. Now Twitter offers pictures, videos, and links, and is barely used over text message at all. As a result, users have taken to screenshotting large paragraphs of text to tweet longer missives. The company has to decide whether it’s going to attempt to stay a fast and brief messaging service or become a slower, richer social media site – andthere are suggestionsthat the new chief executive Jack Dorsey may be backing the biggest change in the site’s history.2. Fix the onboarding experiencePeople who use Twitter and love it have painstakingly found hundreds or even thousands of interesting, informative, smart and funny people to follow around the world. People who are just signing up to the service haven’t. And so the out-of-the-box experience for the service is poor. Compare it to Facebook, where at least a new user is prompted to follow a few people they know from real life, and promptly get pictures and stories shared by their friends and family filling up their feed. With Twitter, a new user is prompted to follow a smattering of celebrities and news accounts, and usually ends up feeling lost at sea.3. Make it better for people who don’t even have an accountTwitter’s former CEO Dick Costolo admitted the company had failed in dealing with trolls. Can Jack Dorsey reverse the tide of hate?Photograph: Sebastien Nogier/EPAIn its results, Twitter has emphasised that many visitors to the website don’t even have an account there. But most onlookers have taken that as a mealy-mouthed excuse for why the company hasn’t actually succeeded in growing its monthly active users, the most common metric for success of a social network. If Twitter means it, it should focus on improving the experience for users who don’t have accounts on the site, letting them easily experience the best of Twitter to encourage them to sign up for an account in the future.4. Deal with abuseFormer CEO Dick Costoloadmitted that the company“sucked” at dealing with trolls and abuse, and said he’d personally intervene to tackle it. Six months on, the company has made huge progress, but it’s still a big problem that is causing some of the site’s most dedicated users to flee. Many of the bigger names have stopped engaging due to threats and hate, as well as numerous regular users who put their heads above the parapet only to get anonymously shouted down. Worse still, Twitter has failed to to even prevent its own paid tools from being used to spread abuse, with people taking advantage of the system of promoted tweets tospread graphic imagesandhate speech. Be it through verification of users or content filtering, something urgently needs to be done.5. Cull spam accountsThere are loads of them, filling up the notifications of anyone who dares to tweet a few monitored words such as “followers” or “iPhone”. And, despite efforts to tackle spam, the numbers seem not to be dented at all. Could one reason be that the uncountably huge quantity of spam accounts inflate the site’s active user numbers?Could the Jack effect help Instagram and Twitter kiss and make up?Photograph: Thomas Coex/AFP/Getty Images6. Kiss and make up with InstagramGreater integration breeds greater engagement and it’s about time that Twitter buried the hatchet with Facebook. In 2012, Twitter blocked access to Instagram, preventing it from hooking up with the service to let users import their contacts from one to the other. In response, Instagram removed its own support for Twitter cards, requiring Twitterers to click through to see posted pics. The end result has been worse for both services – but ultimately, Twitter’s been hurt more than Instagram. But Twitter loves cutting off its nose to spite its face: in the early days, third-party apps did the Twitter experience better than the company’s in-house products (which initially didn’t even include an app), and ever since it clamped down on these, innovation has stalled.7. Bring back gif avatarsTwitter allowed animated gif avatars before it was cool. Then, they turned them off (althoughsomepeoplewho haven’t changed them since still have them). But gifs are back!Even Facebook is getting in on the actwith its animated profile pics. It’s time for Twitter to flick the switch, too.Returning Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey’s in-tray is looking pretty packed.Photograph: Scott Olson/Getty Images8. Improve threaded conversationsIt was a step forward to start threading conversations, but even less helpful than threadless replies in a news feed are partially threaded ones. The company has made steady improvements to the feature, but it’s still a mess. It works differently depending on whether you’re on a phone or desktop, and nowhere is it a good experience.9. Allow opt-outs for spoilersTwitter wants to be the go-to place for live events. That’s great if you’re following along with the social network as a second screen, but not so good if you’re trying to avoid spoilers til you can catch up later. Call it a PR stunt, but the network needs a system to stop tweets with spoilers from ending up in the feeds of users who don’t want to see them. It’s already begun mining the content of tweets to suggest a dedicated timeline for users who want to read more on the topic; all it needs to do is the reverse to provide a good opt-out for users who don’t want to be spoiled. Let a user mute “Formula One”, and it could filter out associated keywords such as F1, drivers’ names, tracks and teams. And as a bonus, it would let those who don’t care avoid the topic entirely.10. Bring back a desktop app (that isn’t a web app)Once, there was Tweetie for Mac. It was excellent. Then, Twitter bought Tweetie, and Tweetie for Mac became Twitter for Mac. Then: nothing. The app hasn’t been updated for years, and there’s never been an official app for Windows other than Tweetdeck, the beefed-up web app for power-users. The company should bring something like Twitter for Mac back and make a genuinely native app for Windows. Twitter has a lot of power users, and it needs to help them help itself.11. Convince shareholders Twitter doesn’t have to be FacebookFacebook has more than a billion users. Twitter doesn’t. That’s OK! Ending the relentless focus on growth, and doubling down on the product could help Twitter become better than ever. And who knows: maybe making something that people love could actually help the company grow organically better than copying Facebook?
Businesses are coming under frequent and increasingly brazen attacks from computer hackers looking to steal sensitive data about customers and disrupt their operations. But many organisations are failing to take adequate steps to repel these onslaughts and often seem clueless about what to do when they happen.This summer’s scandal, whenhackers attacked the Ashley Madison adultery website– posting confidential details online about 33 million accounts – should serve as a wake-up call to businesses, especially those dealing with personal data. They need to protect their customers’ data from cyber-attack – or see their reputations shredded.Theattack on French TV network TV5Monde in Aprilwas even more worrying. The hackers managed to keep the TV channels off air for several hours and posted a message on the organisation’s website claiming to be from Jihadists associated with Isis. Threats were made against the families of French security personnel. Reports later suggested that French authorities suspected the hand of a hacking group with links to the Russian government.But wherever the threats come from – and there are plenty of diverse groups and individuals looking to mount such attacks – many organisations seem powerless to stop the intruders and protect their data.To discuss how businesses and other organisations can boost their cybersecurity, The Guardian, in association with Fujitsu and Symantec, brought together senior online security experts, academics and compliance managers for a roundtable discussion entitled: “Data protection: a critical part of good corporate citizenship?” Participants examined strategies for protecting IT networks from attack and discussed the steps organisations must take to ensure they safeguard their customers’ data better.Part of the problem is that anti-hacking technology such as antivirus software and firewalls have become so sophisticated that hackers have decided to concentrate their efforts on “social engineering” attacks. These involve tricking members of staff into giving away usernames, passwords and other details that can be used to log in to networks.Another risk is that staff may leave laptops, mobiles and documents containing sensitive information in public places, or fall for telephone scammers looking to extract private information.The panel agreed that educating staff to be more aware of these threats is vital, and that with people increasingly working from different locations – at home, in cafes, on the train or plane – the risks are increasing.Zeshan Sattar: “Yes, we can look at the technology, but we also need to look at the human risk.”Photograph: James Drew TurnerAs Zeshan Sattar, a certification evangelist at CompTIA, a trade body for small businesses, said: “People want to work anywhere and everywhere. They open their laptop up and it is confidential – they are really not thinking about what they are doing. Yes, we can look at the technology, but we also need to look at the people and the human risk.”Rather than blaming staff for these failings, should companies be be implementing basic cyber-hygiene in their systems? Or is there not much they can do to protect themselves?“Determined hackers can get in anywhere,” said David Smith, deputy commissioner and director of data protection for the Information Commissioner’s Office, “but in lots of the cases that come to us, if basic measures had been in place, hackers wouldn’t have got in the way they got in.” Fines are levied where companies have failed to take adequate protection, he added.Auriol Stevens, director, Restoration Partners, Lockheed Martin Virtual Technology Cluster, said the onus was on businesses to find clear ways of explaining the dangers of hacking.“You need to tell people about the threats in simple terms. People didn’t understand war theory (in WW2) but they understood ‘Careless talk costs lives,’” she said.Mariarosaria Taddeo: “Provide people with information about why the data is important rather than treating people as stupid.”Photograph: James Drew TurnerBut Mariarosaria Taddeo, researcher at the Oxford Internet Institute at University of Oxford, warned against oversimplifying the issues. She said organisations need to focus on explaining the dangers better.“Provide people with information about why the data is important rather than treating people as stupid and just saying it is confidential - explain why that matters. Words like confidential can be cliquey and the word policy turns people off - you’ve lost them.”One of the big debates is whether organisations should allow staff to use their own smartphones, tablets and laptops for work - so-called “Bring your own device”. This increases risk, because these devices can be more easily accessed by hackers.Where companies provide devices to staff, workers tend to store their work in cloud services, then transfer it over to their own devices, which makes the data vulnerable. One way around this is what is known as “choose your own device” where staff are given a budget and allowed to buy a device of their choice.Sian John, chief strategist for EMEA at Symantec, explained the dangers of this strategy: “If you don’t spend enough people will just put files in the cloud or email them to themselves and then open them on a personal device. It’s worth spending extra on a fancy, top-of-the-range machine to make it less likely they will put work on their own device.”An underlying problem for many organisations is a lack of understanding about the importance of data and security. Until the boards and senior managers grasp that data is a hugely valuable asset for their business, they will always demote cybersecurity in their list of priorities.Jane Wainwright, director of cybersecurity &amp; data protection at PwC, said it is not the responsibility of either the IT department or the security department to explain the value of data – it is a job for senior management.“What I want to hear from them is: ‘We protect data because it is the right thing to do for our customers.’ It’s good if you can use the values of an organisation to get people to understand why the data they have access to matters.”Leaving data security solely to the IT department can create problems, said Mark Edwards, technical director at Capital Network Solutions. “Quite often, the IT department will see it as a failure in their role if they have an incident, so they’ll try and cover it up for as long as possible.”Some believe that it is inevitable hackers will find their way into corporate networks, so these should be segmented and structured so the intruders cannot move around and access data with ease.A significant issue with the TV5Monde attack in April was that the hack seemed to have started at a relatively low level, with a phishing email that three members of staff replied to, allowing the hackers to infiltrate the system with Trojan Horse malware, which tricks users into installing a malicious computer program. The hackers were then able to pass through the firewalls and access not just staff computers and Twitter and Facebook accounts, but also the servers that controlled TV production. This raises questions over the effectiveness of firewalls that separate different areas of operation. Companies need effective “air gaps” where their IT systems are not connected, so hacks cannot spread.Shirin Shah, manager of governance, risk, control and compliance at EDF Energy, said the business operates separate systems for different parts of the business.Shirin Shah: “We have segregated networks, so for our nuclear business there is a totally separate and much more secure network.”Photograph: James Drew Turner“We have segregated networks, so for our nuclear business there is a totally separate and much more secure network. We have three networks at the moment, so the different parts of the business are segregated according to the risk. We have a customer side of the business where we need to be quite open and communicate with our customers and the other part of business is very secure and locked down.”Andy Herrington, head of cyber professional services at Fujitsu, said it could it could be another generation before people get a good grasp of risk management in IT. But he believes the Ashley Madison attack was a watershed. “In 10 or 20 years’ time people may look back and say there was a sea change because it affected people in a very personal way.” And he added: “Look at the Titanic – it fundamentally changed safety at sea almost instantaneously.”Siraj Ahmed Shaikh, cybersecurity lead at Knowledge Transfer Network, said there needs to be a clearer view of the role technology plays in society. “Is technology just a service or is it an infrastructure, in which case we regulate it.”David Evans, director of policy and community at BCS, the Chartered Institute for IT, said people need to have a better idea about how trustworthy different organisations are with their data. This could have huge implications for the future of digital technology, such as the Internet of Things (IoT). “If we don’t have trust we’ll have a massive digital switch off. Many of the people providing the building blocks for the IoT are worried about a lack of trust in digital services, because it will stuff up the market for them.”Hack attacks will continue. But the future of digital services will depend on organisations getting better at protecting their customers’ data and finding ways to keep the hackers at bay.At the tableSamuel Gibbs (Chair)Technology journalist, the Guardian News and MediaMark EdwardsTechnical director, Capital Network SolutionsDavid EvansDirector of policy and community, BCS, The Chartered Institute for ITAndy HerringtonHead of cyber professional services, FujitsuSian JohnChief strategist, EMEA, SymantecZeshan SattarCertification evangelist, CompTIAShirin ShahGovernance, risk, control and compliance manager, EDF EnergySiraj Ahmed ShaikhCybersecurity lead, Knowledge Transfer NetworkDavid SmithDeputy commissioner and director of data, Information Commissioner’s OfficeAuriol StevensDirector, Restoration Partners, Lockheed Martin Virtual Technology ClusterMariarosaria TaddeoResearcher, Oxford Internet Institute, University of OxfordJane WainwrightDirector, cybersecurity and data protection, PwCThis content has been sponsored by Fujitsu and Symantec (whose brands it displays). All content is editorially independent. Contact Ashley Evans(ashley.evans@theguardian.com). For information on debates visit:theguardian.com/sponsored-content
Twitter has confirmed Jack Dorsey as its new chief executive. Dorsey, currently the company’s interim CEO, co-founded Twitter in 2007 and was its first CEO.He has served as the interim head of the firm for the past three months, after former boss Dick Costolo stepped down on 1 July. Alongside his appointment, the company also promoted Adam Bain, formerly the company’s president of global revenue &amp; partnerships, to a chief operating officer role.Bain had been widely seen as the biggest competitor to Dorsey for the head position, but reportedly said he would only take it if Dorsey turned it down.Chris Sacca, a former Google exec, an investor in Twitter and the head of Lowercase Capital, said while he “absolutely” thought Adam Bain would make a great CEO, he saw the realignment as a partnership between the two men and not a choice between them. “[R]ather than an either/or, it says everything about Jack and Adam that they worked out this unique way to continue their collaboration,” Sacca said. “Their strengths are entirely complementary and my confidence is high.”Sacca has been a staunch proponent of Dorsey’s throughout the interim period. “Jack has a gift for seeing the future of the product and inspiring those on the team to make it happen,” he said. “His approach cuts through internal politics and focuses entirely on results. In his time as an interim CEO you have already seen Twitter’s pace of execution accelerate and the core business improve. I have no doubt he is just getting started.”Despite the announcement, Dorsey (who tweets as @jack) will remain the head of fast-growing mobile payments company Square, potentially setting up a conflict of interest for the co-founder of both companies. Twitter had previously said the CEO job would be a full-time position,which seemed to exclude Dorsey as long as he continued to run Square. He also sits on the board of Disney.We are naming@adambainCOO of Twitter, we&#39;re working to change the composition of our Board, and I will serve as CEO of Twitter and Square!&mdash; Jack (@jack)October 5, 2015I&#39;ve been CEO of both companies for over 3 months now. I have the smartest, strongest, and most determined leaders in the world on my teams.&mdash; Jack (@jack)October 5, 2015Inan SEC filingconfirming the promotions, Twitter wrote: “Mr. Dorsey was selected to serve on the board because of the perspective and experience he brings as one of Twitter’s founders and as one of Twitter’s largest stockholders, as well as his extensive experience with technology companies.”Vivian Schiller, formerly the head of news for the popular site, said that it’s important for the company to get out of limbo. “This is a company where there will be a gigantic exhale – Twitter needs leadership,” she told the Guardian.“They’ve been stalled at this fork in the road for a while,” said Schiller. “The path is either to go deep, or to extend the product to compete with Facebook and Instagram. A CEO who’s got the mandate and can provide marching orders for the entire organization is really needed. It’s still a very challenging situation.”Dorsey’s return to the company he helped found has already had an effect on Twitter. In late September, news broke that the company was considering removing, or adding exceptions to, its long-standing policylimiting individual messages to 140 characters. The news was greeted with mixed feelings by users of the social network, with some arguing that any change would remove the aspect which makes it unique when compared to other networks such as Facebook.However, others pointed to the fact that users have been increasingly inventive in finding ways to circumvent the limit, such as posting links to text hosted elsewhere, screenshots of notetaking apps, or simply multi-tweet “tweetstorms” – a practice made popular by venture capitalist Marc Andreessen.An unnamed Twitter employeetold Re/Codethat Dorsey’s return was the impetus for reassessing the role of the character limit: “Having Jack come in and say it’s OK makes all the difference in the world.”Dick Costolo, the former CEO of Twitter, is also stepping down from the board. The company is now advertising for a new board member, who will also replace Dorsey as chairman of the board.
It’s hard to believe now, but during the late 90s, the Lego company faced an enormous struggle to stay relevant and profitable as children turned elsewhere for entertainment. Now, however, the Danish toy outfit has established itself as a cultural giant built not just from little bricks, but from licensed toys, animated feature films and, of course, video games.The unique, symbiotic connection between key brands like Star Wars, physical Lego playsets and the hugely successful Lego series of games was always going to lead toward a “toys-to-life” title. In this genre, created by Activision’s Skylanders series, special action figures can be placed on a USB portal, which then renders them into the on-screen action (using a rather unglamorous technology close to that which sees an Oyster card open a Tube station’s gate). The only surprise is that it’s taken so long for Dimensions to arrive.Created by Traveller’s Tales, the team behind many of the recent Lego video games, Dimensions’ design takes on a fundamentally similar form to its forbearers. It’s a third-person action-adventure where gameplay centres on light combat and environmental puzzle solving, with switches, levers and locked doors serving as Dimension’s core currency of interaction.But while it’s conventional, it is certainly not mediocre. Lego Dimensions offers a hugely captivating world filled with character and considered design. The wit that this studio has brought to its previous titles is immediately evident in the setting. Thanks to the dimension-plundering efforts of an archetypical super villain played by Gary Oldman, the game’s cast of protagonists – opening with the Batman, Gandalf and Lego Movie characters included in the starter pack – are forced to protect a series of high-profile fictional worlds. The result sees the protagonists, locations and lore of The Wizard of Oz, Doctor Who, The Simpsons and more mixed and mashed into a series of entertaining levels.The environments are detailed and imaginative, playing home to well-designed puzzles that reward single and cooperative play with near equal grace. The quality of writing and knack for comedy shines through. Whether it’s Batman’s frustrated attempt to comprehend a Tardis, or confusion about right and wrong on the Yellow Brick Road, Dimensions knows how to raise a smile. There are odd glitches to be found, and perhaps the value of the boss battle is slightly overstated throughout the game. Predominantly, though, Dimensions is tremendous fun.But what of those physical toys? In Dimensions they are, of course, built from Lego, taking the form of characters and vehicles. The starter pack includes the required Toy Pad platform, the three aforementioned character figures, and one vehicle; a diminutive Lego Batmobile.Very quickly, the unique strength of Lego reveals itself. While other toys-to-life games like Skylanders and Disney Infinity have mostly provided players with static action figures, this is a game that wants you to reallyplaywith the toys. In fact, the opening starts with putting the controller aside and building a portal on the Toy Pad. Later models are reconstructed to track progress and reflect upgrades in game, and throughout, you’re never far from the next moment you switch thumbsticks for bricks.But with the toys also comes Dimension’s capacity to irritate. Unavailable areas, hidden items and other concealed elements lurk in each and every level. Many can only be accessed by certain characters or vehicles not included in the starter pack, which must be purchased in the real world for real money.Although this is a standard feature of this genre, it’s still a bridge between the physical and virtual that most parents could probably do without – especially as the extra sets do not come cheap. Available in various arrangements that each provide new Lego models and game content – including entire new missions and levels in some cases – the packs are certainly of a quality equal to the base game. But it is Dimension’s habit of constantly suggesting the introduction of these new elements that is bound to put pressure on parental wallets.Buying a new pack does make revisiting a level rewarding, and arguably lends longevity to the experience. But one thing is clear; the completist will have to spend hundreds of pounds to experience Dimensions in its entirety.The base game, though, remains superb – the ways Dimensions harnesses what Lego does best to blend the tangible with the digital is consistently delightful. Dimensions may be the best Lego game yet, but like the sweets at the supermarket counter, or those tantalising extras in the latest free-to-play smartphone game, it might prove most talented when it comes to causing friction between parent and child.Warner Bros; PS3/PS4/Wii U/Xbox 360/Xbox One (version tested); £80; Pegi rating: 7+
Google is now Alphabet. Temporary Holding Company Number Two is now Google. And “don’t be evil” is now one step closer to being a thing of the past.Following the corporate reshuffle at Google, the world’s largest search firm is now owned by a holding company called “Alphabet” – which, confusingly, was temporarily a subsidiary of Google but then executed a “reverse takeover” of its parent company to become the new boss, at which point Google spun off a number of its own subsidiaries such as its life sciences subsidiary Calico and “moonshot” division X to sit under Alphabet.The end result is that the Google we all know and love still exists, but sits under an entirely new company, with a new name, new brand, new website – and new ethics policy.When Alphabet was revealed, it was made clear that Google’s pre-existing ethics policy would only apply to the search firm itself, rather than its parent company. But now that Alphabet has revealed its own Code of Conduct, and the words “don’t be evil” are nowhere in sight.Instead, the holding company hasa rather less pithy set of requirements for its employees, including “avoid conflicts of interest”, “ensure financial integrity and responsibility” and “obey the law”.That means that Google’s own companies, including YouTube and Android, are still run with a code of conduct that includes the command “don’t be evil” (as well as the less well-known statement that “we like cats, but we’re a dog company”), while the companies that sit directly under Alphabet aren’t.Alphabet’s other subsidiaries such as X, the division in charge of the company’s balloon-powered internet drone delivery projects, will still have the ability to set their own codes of conduct, just as Google itself has. But the company itself leads on the highly catchy requirement that “Employees of Alphabet and its subsidiaries … should do the right thing – follow the law, act honorably, and treat each other with respect.”It isn’t the first time Google has downgraded “don’t be evil” in its internal communications. In 2009, the companyquietly dropped the line from “motto” to “mantra”, as part of a rebranding of its corporate PR – a far cry from the early noughties, where the phrase had even been included in the company’s 2004 intial public offering.
It’s the time of year that every gamer loves: the shops are filled with brand new PlayStation, Xbox and Nintendo releases and you can’t switch on the television without an advert for some blockbusting sci-fi shooter attacking your eyeballs.But if you’ve resisted the lure of the latest games consoles for the last two years, is now the time to dive in?Here are five reasons why the answer may quite possibly be yes.Developers are getting to grips with the hardwareJust after the launch of PlayStation 4, the machine’s designerMark Cerny saidit would be three years before we saw studios starting to truly exploit the capabilities of the hardware – for example, using the graphics processor for other tasks such as collision detection and physics to boost performance. This, he said, would hugely increase the depth and accuracy of game worlds.“It takes a while before the software development kits – the applications that developers use to make games – really come into maturity,” says independent developer Byron Atkinson-Jones. “It’s even longer before developers fully learn how to exploit the hardware. This means less constraints on your imagination – I certainly expect to see leaps in artificial intelligence, physics and graphical realism”.Right now, we’re getting the first wave of big titles – Witcher 3,Star Wars: Battlefront,Assassin’s Creed: Syndicate– that are leaving the last-gen machines behind. Coming up, Uncharted 4 is set toreally push PS4in its use of physics and graphical shaders, while on Xbox One, Quantum Break is promisingstate-of-the-art rendering techand Crackdown 3 is using cloud computing to create100% destructible cities. We’re also seeing interesting experiments with online multiplayer gaming, including hugely ambitious projects like No Man’s Sky on PS4 andElite: Dangerouson Xbox One.There are already lots of great gamesWith its vast, detailed environment and seemingly endless narrative, Witcher 3 typifies current-gen gaming.The first year of a console’s life is usually pretty low on truly excellent titles. Developers are still getting to grips with the hardware, while the manufacturers are busy making desperate tweaks to the user interface and operating systems.Two years after launch, however, things are really picking up for the current generation. Xbox One and PS4 have several bona-fide classics including Witcher 3,Metal Gear Solid 5: The Phantom Pain,Batman: Arkham KnightandBloodborne(a PS4 exclusive). There are also strong second tier offerings likeDragon Age: Inquisition,Middle Earth: Shadow of Mordor,Far Cry 4, Until Dawn (PS4 only),Forza Horizon 2(only on Xbox One) andDestiny.Both machines also support a large vibrant indie community producing beautiful offbeat titles like Shovel Knight,Guacamelee,Ori and the Blind Forest, N++, Binding of Isaac: Rebirth, Resogun and Lovers in a Dangerous Space Time. So it’s not all shooting serious looking men in the face with licensed firearms.Nintendo’s latest machine was slow to start but now it has a beautiful collection of family-friendly titles likeMario Kart 8,Splatoon,Super Mario 3D World,Super Smash Bros,Super Mario MakerandPikmin 3. There are also choices for older gamers includingBayonetta 2and a great update of cult action role-player Darkstalkers II. It’s not a vast library that’s for sure, but you’ll get many hours of pleasure out of all of these – and you can’t play them anywhere else.Alternative view:most of the big PS4 and Xbox One releases are also available on the PS3 and Xbox 360. They don’t look as good and are missing some of the more sophisticated features, but you’re still getting roughly the same game experience. Indeed, a lot of well-reviewed Xbox One and PS4 titles – including GTA V, Last of Us,Dishonoredand Tomb Raider are merely graphically enhanced versions of last-gen titles. If none of the new or forthcoming releases interest you and you’re not a big online gamer, you could hang on for another year.This is a pretty good Christmas for new releases – and more are on the wayNo Man’s Sky simulates an entire galaxy providing players with a multiplayer exploration game like no other.So far this quarter, we’ve already had Metal Gear Solid 5: Phantom Pain, two great football sims (Pro Evolution SoccerandFifa 16),Forza Motorsport 6(on Xbox One) and the game-changingDestiny: Taken King. Coming up there’s the vast apocalyptic adventureFallout 4, anarchic sandbox stunt ’em up Just Cause 3, Call of Duty: Black Ops III,Assassin’s Creed Syndicate,Rise of the Tomb Raiderand the long-awaited online shooter Star Wars Battlefront. As for exclusives, Xbox One is getting Halo 5: Guardians, while PS4 owners will need to wait a little longer for promising biggies like space exploration sim No Man’s Sky and rollicking action adventure Uncharted 4: Thief’s End.On Wii U, we’ve seen the gorgeous platformer construction kit Super Mario Maker and the super cuteYoshi’s Woolly World– there’s also a nice version ofSkylanders Super Chargerswhich adds Donkey Kong and Bowser to the cast.Things are looking healthy in 2016, too – especially if you like huge sequels. New Gears of War, Mirror’s Edge, Dark Souls, Crackdown, Hitman, Doom and XCOM are all on the way, with Zelda, Star Wing and Mario Tennis heading back to Nintendo’s console.Alternative view:We’re yet to see any incredibly innovative, vastly experimental ideas on the current consoles. These machines are still relying on the same familiar franchises and well-worn genres from the last generation. If you love sci-fi shooters and open-world action role-playing fantasies, you’re going to be fine. If you’re waiting until we get an absolutely pivotal, epoch-shattering moment of transcendental genius – erm, keep waiting.The prices are pretty goodThe PlayStation 4 is around £300 with a one terabyte hard drive. Xbox One is £280 with a 500GB drive or £320 with 1TB. The Wii U is between £180 and £200 for a basic box. There’s also a vast range of decent bundle deals which come complete with big new games – often for no extra cash. Look out, too, for the nice limited editions and exclusives around big games like Halo 5, Destiny: Taken Kings and Metal Gear Solid 5. Retailers are really looking to undercut each other this winter so check around for good deals.“Both Xbox One and PS4 are now around 20-30% cheaper than their original launch prices on the original specification machines with new, improved models on the way,” says Debbie Bestwick, the managing director of Team17. “These include the 1TB Xbox One with a 20% faster boot up time and the new 500GB CUH-1200 series PS4 which uses 25% less power, running cooler and quieter, as well as a 1TB model too.”Alternative view:OK, these things are still not cheap. If you just want to play games alone or on the sofa with your family and don’t care about keeping up with your friends, the PS3 and Xbox 360 still have plenty to offer – and can be picked up used for less than £100 each. You’ll get a Wii and a shed-load of games for half that.There are intriguing new things on the waySony’s PlayStation VR headset, due out next year, works with the previously underused Move controllers to provide an unprecedented virtual-reality experience.Playstation 4 is about to enter the virtual world with its PlayStation VR headset, due next year with a large list of supporting titles. There’s no firm release date or price yet, but even if it’s £300, it’ll still be one of the cheapest ways to get in on the virtual reality craze.Meanwhile, Microsoft’s incoming Hololens augmented-reality headset will be compatible with Xbox One – as is the Windows 10 operating system whichintroduces cross-platform playbetween computer and console. Oh, and this winter, the Microsoft’s machine is getting a huge update. TheNew Xbox One Experiencewill update the look and feel of the interface and add new features such as backwards compatibility with over 100 Xbox 360 titles.Conclusion – or “hey, what about the PC?”If you have the money to spare, then yes, it’s a good time to buy a console, particularly if you enjoy playing online with friends. We have three really strong machines that have large varied software back catalogues and plenty of intriguing games on the way. Developers are starting to test the hardware, especially the PS4 and Xbox One, leading to intriguing advances in areas such as physics, visual effects and artificial intelligence (advances that mean the PS3 and Xbox 360 are gradually being left out of release plans). There’s also a thriving indie community with lots of offbeat unusual titles like Grow Home, Beyond Eyes and Everybody’s Gone to the Rapture, which don’t fit into the well-worn genres.“Both the Wii U and the PlayStation 4 now have a great selection of games to choose from, and the Xbox One has a great Christmas line-up ahead,” says Keza MacDonald, editor of Kotaku UK. “Shops are starting to get aggressive about pricing, too, so you’ll inevitably get a better deal – and be able to pick up more games for less money – than the early adopters.”If you just can’t afford to spend £300 on a games machine though, there are plenty of beautiful, compelling experiences on Wii, PS3 and Xbox 360 that will keep you and your family entertained for a good while.And of course, the consoles don’t exist in a gaming vacuum ...Alternative view:“It’s worth considering making the jump to PC gaming,” says Oli Welsh, editor of Eurogamer. “It’s not much more expensive to get a console-equivalent machine, the games are cheaper, and you get all the big cross-platform releases and much, much more besides. The online service Steam –- which has a special mode for use on TVs and with console controllers - has a bigger, better library of games than either Xbox or PlayStation will ever have. It’s the most exciting platform in games right now.”Indeed, A new range of “living room” PCs has emerged, specifically intended as multimedia machines, which can be hooked up to your television to run all your video, live TV and gaming entertainment. They’re also designed to make owning, running and occasionally updating a home computer easier than ever. Look out for Valve’sSteam Machines, the AcerRevo Buildand Razer’sProject Christine.
Uber is coming under increasing pressure after Boris Johnson accused the taxi-hailing app of systematically breaking the law.In his weekly column for the Telegraph, the mayor of London said Uber’s mobile phone technology is effectively mimicking the act of hailing a taxi – a process that only black cabs can legally carry out.Johnson’s comments come as Transport for London (TfL) takes Uber to the high court over a separate issue to determinewhether the app breaks the law by effectively acting as a meter.Related:Transport for London could crack down on Uber in taxi consultationAnd Uber is already facing the threat of a major crackdown on its business practices in London after TfLlast week launched a public consultationto consider proposals including making passengers wait at least five minutes for a ride.Johnson, who chairs TfL, has been largely defensive over the issue of Uber’s impact on the black cab trade, arguing that the shift is the product of market forces and consumer choice.But in Monday’s column, he wrote: “The reason TfL is consulting on new regulations for minicabs is very simple: we need to uphold the law. At present that law is being systematically broken – or at least circumvented – by the use of the Uber app.”Johnson said he understood the indignation over TfL’s consultation and the arguments in favour of Uber - it creates jobs, is cheap and convenient.And he argued the black taxi trade has not been its “own most effective advocate”, being let down by the behaviour of a few cabbies,such as those who protested in City Hall, allegedly injuring a security guard.But he insists many Uber minicabs are breaking the law “because technology makes it so easy for it to be broken”.“You no longer need to see a vehicle to hail it,” he said. “Your phone will see it for you. In other words the app is allowing private hire vehicles to behave like black taxis: to be hailed, to ply for hire in the streets, to do exactly what the law says they are not supposed to do.”Johnson argued for a balance that allows the black cab trade and minicab apps to coexist.“I agree completely with the free marketeers: it is nuts to try to ban technology,” he wrote. “But until parliament has the guts to change the law we must uphold the existing and longstanding legal distinctions between black cabs and minicabs.”Related:Uber has challenged the taxi industry and it’s too late to apply the brakesThe high court hearing starts on Monday and is expected to conclude on Tuesday. Black-cab drivers argue the app’s calculation of fares constitutes metering and is therefore illegal. TfL believes the app is not considered a meter under current laws but has deferred a final decision on interpreting the law to the courts.Uber has launched a petition, which has so far attracted nearly 120,000 names, to support its fight against the TfL proposals. It says: “These rules make no sense.”An Uber spokesman said: “In the UK, Uber is fully licensed and regulated and abides by all private hire legislation. Uber’s model has been scrutinised not only by TfL, but by over 25 other regulators and found to be compliant.“These bureaucratic new rules will not improve your ride. They’re designed to address the concerns of black cab drivers, who feel under pressure from increased competition.“But the answer is to reduce the onerous regulations cabbies face today – not increase them for everyone else.”
The “sharing economy” is a meaningless term that was only coined in the first place because of the tech industry’s desire to pretend everything it does is new and groundbreaking.Now, almost a decade after it started seeing use, it’s worse than simply being meaningless: it’s actively obfuscatory, lumping together a hugely disparate bunch of companies, many of which push the definition to its limits, and the biggest examples of which have nothing to do with “sharing” at all.The term grew out of the open-source community, where coders contribute to programs released to the world free-of-charge. The push for a similar model to be applied to the real world dates back to the early 2000s, but it took the financial crisis for it to grow from a niche idea to one taken seriously.By the 2010s, the focus had narrowed from a nebulous attempt to bring the open source ethos out of the coding world to a more specific look at how to use technology to enable more efficient use of scarce resources. At the same time, the buzzwords had also stabilised, with a number of academic-sounding terms such as “commons-based peer production” (as coined by NYU law professor Yochai Benkler) to two main contenders: “the sharing economy”, and “collaborative consumption”.The time was ripe for both ideas to take off. With unemployment in the west still high, and ideas of “post-growth capitalism” floating in the ether, groups that could articulate an alternative view of the world were popular. And the archetypal collaborative consumption models were seemingly win-win. A typical analogy for the sort of model people wanted to build was focused on household tools: if you own a drill, you likely don’t use it 364 days of the year; why not let others use it in the meantime?In its purest sense, that is the sharing economy. But it very quickly ran into an issue: while some people act out of altruism, most don’t. My drill ismine. Why should I share it with you?Some sites, such as Freecycle, still focus on acting out of the goodness of one’s heart, but the success stories of the sharing economy solved the problem by looking to the old economy. And so “sharing” became “renting”. Even today,one report finds 20 companies in the sharing economywhose offering can be summed up as “you can borrow stuff you don’t want to buy”. Nine of them have a name beginning with “rent”.Once money started changing hands in earnest, business really started booming. In 2011, the same year Time magazine named the “sharing society” one of theTen Ideas That Will Change The World, AirBnB raised $120m in VC funding. The company was mentioned in Time’s piece, which still emphasised the feel-good backdrop to the story: “There’s a green element here, of course: sharing and renting more stuff means producing and wasting less stuff, which is good for the planet and even better for one’s self-image.”While renting out a spare room in a flat (or even renting out a flat) may be close enough to “sharing” to be hair-splitting, it’s a different case for hiring a driver to take you across a city. And yet Uber is one of the most famousexamples of the sharing economy in the world– and certainly the highest capitalised, worth well north of $50bn.The company’s defenders argue that it justifies that label because of the similarity to AirBnB: Uber drivers have an asset lying unused, which they want to monetise with the power of the internet. The difference, of course, is that an Uber driver’s labour is an integral part of the whole shebang. You aren’t renting their car: you’re renting their carand them.If that’s still not clear-cut enough, consider TaskRabbit, the last member ofthe holy trinity of the Sharing Economy. The company allows customers to hire temporary labour to cook, clean, assemble furniture or queue for the latest iPhone. It’s a far cry from “collaborative consumption”.Instead, the companies lumped together as examples of the sharing economy have come to be typified by something altogether different: a dependence on tenuous labour, particularly that provided by individuals working as third-party contractors rather than full employees.For that reason, I’ve been using another term to describe these companies: “gig economy”. It’s not as well-known as “sharing economy”, which means it sounds weird to some ears (“do you mean Uber only hires musicians?”). But it emphasises the unifying aspect is short-term, tenuous “gigs” – often more than one juggled at the same time.But there are other popular alternatives as well. In the US, “1099 economy” is often used, referring to the American tax code for independent contractors, while in the UK, similar emphasis is placed on “zero-hour contracts”: terms of employment which provide no fixed hours and don’t even guarantee work will be provided at all.Are those terms better term than “gig economy”? Is there a better phrase still? Let me know in the comments below.
It’s Monday.
Have you heard the story about the tip from the shoeshine boy, a Brit called James Pallot asks me on my last day at TechCrunch Disrupt. I have, I say, though later I Google it to get the facts straight.It’s attributed to Joseph Kennedy, paterfamilias of the Kennedy clan who, in 1929, was getting his shoes shined by a young boy who was also making confident predictions about which stocks would rise. For Kennedy, it was a moment of revelation. He sold his portfolio. Not long afterwards, Wall Street crashed and the world was plunged into the greatest depression ever seen. So a tip from the shoeshine boy is a sign that the bubble is about to burst. That the wave of confidence will finally crash upon the shore. That the jig is up.Pallot used to be the digital editorial director of Condé Nast in New York and now he has a startup. But then, we’re at the world’s biggest startup conference in San Francisco, a few miles down the road from Silicon Valley where the world’s greatest concentration of technology startups first started up.His company is in the booming field of VR, or virtual reality, which is to 2015 roughly what Rubik’s Cubes were to 1982, though with rather bigger potential consequences. Pallot claims it’s the logical next step for journalistic content. In 20 years’ time, you won’t be reading this on the page, I’ll probably be leading you by the hand through a 3D rendering of a virtual TechCrunch conference floor. Or, more likely, you’ll be leading yourself and I’ll be claiming jobseeker’s allowance.But anyway. In the meantime, Pallot asks me if I’ve heard of the tip from the shoeshine boy. I have, I say, and tell him it’s been on my mind. Because for three days, I’ve been hearing about “unicorns” – a Silicon Valley term for companies that have been valued at more than $1bn. When this usage was first coined, less than two years ago, there were 39 of them. Today, there are 147. Or as Matthew Wong, a senior analyst at CB Insights, tells me: “The funding is at levels that we haven’t seen since 2000.”As those with longer memories will recall, that was the year the dotcom bubble burst. It needs explaining because there are an awful lot of people at TechCrunch whose memories simply don’t go back that far: the typical startup founder is male and in his 20s. Back in 2000, Google was less than 18 months old and Facebook wasn’t even a glimmer in Mark Zuckerberg’s eye – he was still at high school. (At 31, he’s now practically Silicon Valley’s elder statesman.)Related:Five lessons Silicon Valley has for UK tech entrepreneursEverything has changed. And is changing at an ever-faster pace. Eight years ago, TechCrunch launched its Disrupt conference with 45 startups. This year, there are 5,000 of them. Over three days I talk to founders of companies from San Francisco and Texas and Uruguay and Beirut and Stockholm and Tel Aviv and Warsaw. There are apps for crowdfunded mortgages and cheaper divorces and better sex. There’s “Expedia for golf” and “Facebook for cars” and “Nest for water” and “Tinder for dogs”. There’s a virtual reality teddy bear, a device that claims it will be able to read your emotions via a contact lens in your eye and another that will automate your home cannabis farm (marijuana is a big deal in Silicon Valley right now). I miss the panel on nuclear fusion startups but they’re around.They’ve all paid upwards of $3,000 (£1,900) to be here and they’re all trying to attract the attention of Silicon Valley’s biggest beasts. The VCs – venture capitalists to you and me. The money guys.“How do you spot them?” I ask Peter Becronis, the founder of a realestatestartup called Owner’s Vault. “Oh, it’s easy,” he says. “They’re all men, older guys who are in jeans and brown boots and perhaps a blue jacket. Oh, and a good watch. They’re the ones who shuffle past you trying not to catch your eye.”It’s a long shot for the likes of Becronis to be here, but not a total pipe dream. Because hundreds of startups are being funded each month. Vast sums of money are changing hands. Crunchbase, TechCrunch’s sister site, lists the deals that are being done on a daily basis. On the day I write this, I check it and find 24 companies that have just received funding, including Kreditech, which got $92m (it uses “big data and complex machine-learning algorithms to credit score everyone worldwide”) and Medium, which received $57m (it’s a platform that has found another new business model that seems to involve not paying journalists).Every month the amount of money being invested in early-stage startups goes up. And every month, more and more people are starting to use the B-word. Bubble. The last time this amount of money was swilling around, we know how it ended. “Back then, a lot of websites launched but that’s all they were, websites,” Mike Butcher, TechCrunch’s editor-at-large, tells me. “Now in 2015, all those technologies that were predicted – AI, drones, VR – have all turned up. The innovation is real. And it just continues to get bigger and bigger. There are more VC firms here than you can poke a stick at.“Is it a bubble?” he asks and then answers the question himself, vividly, if not entirely clearly. “It depends. How many unicorns can you fit through the eye of a needle? Anyway, unicorns are over. It’s all about decacorns now. Companies that are worth tens of billions of dollars.”AOL’s takeover of Time Warner in 2000 was the largest merger in US corporate history at the time.Photograph: Suzanne Plunkett/APIn 2000 the bubble was in publicly listed companies – organisations like the then upstart AOL, which bought Time Warner for $164bn, the largest merger in America business history, and then most spectacular blow-up. Or in Britain,Lastminute.com, whose share price peaked at 511p before crashing to 80p a month later. Both companies survived, unlike many, but it was a long struggle back up for both of them. (In a neat bit of circularity,AOL bought TechCrunchalong the way.) In 2015, it’s private money flowing into companies that may or may not go public one day.The shoeshine boy wouldn’t be tipping stocks in 2015, but what would he be doing? I ask Ned Desmond, the chief operating officer of TechCrunch. He thinks for a moment. “He would probably be an Uber driver who has his own angel investment line,” he says.But James Pallot tops that. He’s flown in from JFK and had his shoes shined in the airport. “And the guy had a startup. I literally got a tip from the shoeshine boy! He was trying to find an investor for his national shoeshine franchise.” But then, in many ways, there has never been a better time to be a startup. Niko Bonatsos, a VC with General Catalyst Partners, tells me that the sheer number of companies at TechCrunch “speaks volumes about how the barriers to entry have been removed. It’s really easy to start a company. And lots of companies from other parts of the world see this as a lottery ticket. And for some of them, it will be. It’s the survival of the fittest. And the luckiest.”Pallot and his co-founder are currently “bootstrapping” their company, Emblematic Group, which is creating virtual reality news content. “Bootstrapping” is Silicon Valley jargon. It means getting by with what you’ve got. It’s how people have set up companies since the dawn of capitalism. You start a business with a bit of money you already have and you try to attract customers and build it from there.“Bootstrapping” is how you figure out if there’s a market and, if so, how you reach it. It’s also, like, totally 20th century. The reason 5,000 companies pay $3,000-plus to come to TechCrunch is because Silicon Valley has another model. People – strangers – will give you vast sums of cash to build your company into a global brand overnight. If you can deliver the killer pitch. The pitch that convinces the valley’s top VCs that you are the next Facebook, the next Uber, the next Airbnb.“It doesn’t work like this in the rest of the world,” Ned Desmond tells me. “In Indonesia or Turkey or wherever, normal business culture demands collateral and security. Venture investing has none of that. You are investing in potential.” You’re gambling, basically. Silicon Valley, in 2015, is a giant casino. And the bets are so large because the potential payoffs are so huge. The next Google has to start somewhere.So is it a bubble? “Everything is cyclical,” says Desmond. Does he remember the last crash? “I was there! I was in it. It was terrible. We had just launched a magazine,Business 2.0. Even the name sounds so cringeworthy now. We launched in May 2000 with a record number of advertisements. We had 150 ad pages. A year on, we had 15.”This is not exactly an answer, so I try again. Is it a bubble? “We published a graph showing the unicorns. It’s a hockey stick. It’s near vertical growth.”So, is it a bubble? “Some people say we are living through a period of history that is unprecedented. They say that everything has changed. That it’s different now.”So is it a bubble? “Look,” he says finally. “You can answer that question for yourself. Look at the graph. It’s just about common sense.”*****Out on the exhibition floor, it’s mayhem. Everyone is pitching everyone else. And it’s all being conducted at volume 11. Because if you have a big idea and you want to find a VC, it’s just possible that you might find one out there. I lived through the 2000 bubble and subsequent crash vicariously via a flatmate who got a job with a thrusting new website, and it’s probably my imagination, but there’s something of the atmosphere that I remember of the time: loud, overexcited twentysomethings who tended to leave a mess on the floor.A dozen or more countries have bought into the Silicon Valley dream and sponsored their companies to be here: there are pavilions representing Brazil, the Middle East, Uruguay, Taiwan, Norway, the Czech Republic. And the posters above the stands look like they’ve been produced by an automatic startup buzzword generator. “Digital innovation platform!” reads one. “Accelerate growth disruption” another. A third offers to “quantify your coding”.The first person I talk to – and that’s because he stops me in my tracks by holding an iPhone with a picture of an anchor on it right in my face – is Lev Moravtchik. He’s a 33-year-old from Israel who has a dating app – Diggidi – that he tries to convince me is going to be bigger than Tinder. Is this the dream? To start your own company? “No, never! Nothing is forcing me to ruin my life.”Is that the fear? That you’re ruining your life? “Of course! Do you know the figures? More than 90% of all startups fail.” So why are you here? “Israel is a startup nation. And Diggidi is different from anything else. It’s disruptive.” This is TechCrunch Disrupt. Of course it is. But how exactly? “Because it’s a dating revolution. Because it can’t be ignored.”The process of ‘disruption’ is supposed to describe how established firms such as IBM were overtaken by the likes of Microsoft.Photograph: Fabian Bimmer/APBut then, if there’s one thing that I learn, it’s that disrupting is to now what dropping out and tuning in was to the 1960s. Everyone’s disrupting. Or at least everyone thinks they are. The usage of the term was coined by Clayton Christensen, a professor at Harvard Business School, to describe how even massive, seemingly invincible companies like IBM can be displaced by scrappy little upstarts like (once upon a time) Microsoft. He called it the “technology mudslide hypothesis”. Or how some small new technological breakthrough can have huge world-changing consequences.And if I’m not convinced that Diggidi is the revolution the world has been waiting for – it takes me a good five minutes to understand how the anchor even comes into it – I also have no idea what revolution the world is waiting for. But then, as Tod Francis, a Silicon Valley VC with the firm Shasta Ventures, tells me, often the world has no idea either. Until it arrives. “It’s why you’ve got to keep an open mind. Think about what billion-dollar companies looked like at this stage. Most of the really big ideas were easy to dismiss. Nobody thought sleeping on people’s couches was some amazing business plan, but look at Airbnb. Look at FitBit – did anyone really need that? No, but people bought it. We see crazy ideas in action every day. Often they are the ones that are accepted.”I meet him on the way into the startup “battlefield”. It’s the heart of TechCrunch, where 25 companies take to the stage and pitch their hearts out to a panel of VCs who make the judges onDragons’ Denlook like kindergarten teachers. It’s a big deal. Dropbox was a battlefield contender, as was Yammer (sold to Microsoft for $1.2bn), and Mint.Everyone knows it’s a bubble. That doesn’t mean a lot of people won’t make a lot of money. It’s like musical chairsAnd it’s incredibly competitive. More than 950 startups applied and yet, to the outsider, it’s hard to quite see how the ones that got through, got through. There’s a company that is looking to change the world through its robotic nail-art machine. There’s a “personalised content relevancy platform”. And an app that will deliver food for your kids’ lunchboxes. (You can’t move in Silicon Valley for delivery apps these days. Or, as one tech editor summarised the sector to me, “twentysomething men who have set up companies to provide things their mother used to do for them.”) The odds are that one of them will be the next unicorn, but I’m having a hard time spotting which, not least because the man sitting next to me is offering his own running commentary.“EasyPaint?” he says, as we watch a presentation for an app that’s going to revolutionise the painting and decorating industry. “EasyDud more like. People will use it once then take the guy’s number and call him directly.” Michael, who doesn’t want his full name in this article, works for a Japanese technology company and is at TechCrunch to make recommendations for early-stage startups that he thinks his company should acquire. He practically guffaws when I ask him if it’s a bubble.“Of course it’s a bubble. Everyone knows it’s a bubble. Which doesn’t mean that a lot of people won’t make a lot of money. It’s like musical chairs. The question is not if it’s a bubble, but will it remain long enough for us to get in on it? The question is: am I too late?“Look at how many companies are cash-negative. Twitter is still cash-negative. Even Uber is cash-negative. Silicon Valley is a hype machine. That’s how it works. And sometimes if there’s enough hype, it pays off. And sometimes it doesn’t. It’s like when you go house-hunting and the real estate agent doesn’t say, ‘Look at how great the space is. Look at how great the area is.’ They say, ‘If you don’t buy now, it’ll be twice the price in six months’ time.’ It doesn’t reflect true value. It’s just a sort of herd mentality.”And he gives me the example of San Francisco’s first gold rush, the huge influx of money in 1849 that created large swaths of the Victorian city that still stands today. “People thought prices would go up and up and up and that eventually they would fill in the bay and build there. People were buying plots of land beneath the ocean because they thought that in the future prices would rise. It’s exactly the same as we’re seeing today.”Rocketing property prices have caused tension in San Francisco between wealthy tech staff – who are often driven by bus from downtown areas to their places of work – and longer-established residents.Photograph: John Orvis/Demotix/CorbisIt’s an apposite example because San Francisco is in the grip of a property boom that makes London’s look almost sane and reasonable by comparison. The average rent on a one-bed apartment has just hit $3,500 (£2,300) a month, and that’s if you can find one. The entire city is pinched. I can’t find a single hotel room for under $350 and so rent a room in someone’s house via Airbnb, and even that is $150 a night.The founders of a Parisian startup, Aircall, tell me they’ve come to look for funding. “We are four guys so we thought, OK, we will share an apartment and it is $10,000 a month! We were like, wow!” They still came though. “But we left the tech team in France. Europe is like the third world to Silicon Valley now.” Mike Butcher tells me that “Silicon Valley isn’t a place any more. It’s a state of mind. You can be in Ukraine or Berlin or wherever.”You can. But if you want to be where the money is, you still want to be here. And it’s here in San Francisco that the tectonics of the tech industry are smashing up against those of the real world, a San Andreas-sized faultline rumbling deep beneath the ground. “Silicon Valley” used to be a chain of dormitory towns a commuter train ride away from San Francisco where the likes of Google and Apple have their campuses. But increasingly, it’s moving to San Francisco itself. Everyone wants to be downtown, where the bars and hipster cafes are. But the more attractive the city becomes to startups, the more cripplingly expensive it is for everyone else.The city that gave birth to the counterculture, that stuck it to the Man, that is still home to organic co-ops and vegan co-living spaces, is right in the path of the Great Disruption – a storm whipped up and driven by the most relentless form of capitalism ever witnessed.Tim Fernando, 31-year-old co-founder of an Oxford-based startup, Esplorio, explains why they’re staying in Oxford. “A software engineer will [cost us] $120,000 here, whereas in Oxford, it’s more like £26,000.” And yet, it’s hard to ignore the benefits that just being here confers. “We’d literally just arrived and were sitting in a coffee shop and it turned out that the woman sitting opposite us was a director of marketing at Apple. That kind of thing just doesn’t happen in Britain.”I rather like Esplorio. It uses data from your phone to create an automated travelogue of where you’ve been, and they tell me they’ve had $300,000 in early-stage funding.“Well done, I say. “That’s sounds like a lot.” “Does it?” says Fernando and he sounds slightly mournful. “Not in Silicon Valley terms it’s not.”And it’s true, it’s not. And it’s as useful a measure as any of how Silicon Valley has parted ways with reality. Or at least the reality that most of us know; a world where $300,000 remains quite a lot of money. Silicon Valley, on the other hand, is a place where billion-dollar companies are being created almost overnight. Six years ago, Uber didn’t exist. In its last round of funding, it raised $1bn in capital from private investors, giving it a supposed value of $50bn. It’s a penta-decacorn. Less a mythical creature, some might argue, more a Frankenstein monster.But Silicon Valley’s primacy remains indisputable. “Look at how many world-changing technologies have been created within a few miles of here,” Sam Altman, the president of Y Combinator, tells me. “You’re using an iPhone, which was invented 25 minutes away. You’re staying in an Airbnb, which was invented five minutes from here. You’re probably using Twitter, which was dreamed up around the corner. It’s incredible how concentrated the real innovation has been. How much has come out of this one area.”Y Combinator is probably the most famous of Silicon Valley’s seed funds. It runs a three-month programme that nurtures startups and eventually helps launch them into the world. Dropbox, Airbnb and Reddit all began life there. “Eight thousand companies applied for the last batch,” says Altman. “And we have two batches a year.”There’s so much money in Silicon Valley at the moment, he says, because interest rates are so low and “startups have been one of the few asset classes that have generated real growth”.And the reason there are so many unicorns is that VCs bet big or they go home. He says it doesn’t matter if there’s a bubble or not, good companies will still make it whatever, an argument that echoes Bill Gates’s remarks from last year. He claimed that half the companies being created in Silicon Valley were “silly” and two thirds of them would fail. “But the dozen or so ideas that emerge out of that are going to be really important.”Already “unicorpses” have started to appear.Groupon’s value is dropping like a stone. It’s being predicted that Dropbox, once valued at $10bn, will be “the first dead decacorn”. On the TechCrunch stage, people try not to say the “bubble” word. They say there is “frothiness”. That there is “a lot of capital that is seeking returns”. That “valuations are a bit robust”.Elsewhere, people are not so restrained. Earlier this year, Bill Gurley, a partner at Benchmark, a big Silicon Valley venture firm, sent out a series of tweetswarning of a bubble, including this one: “Arguing we aren’t in a bubble because it’s not as bad as 1999 is like saying that Kim Jong-Un is fine because he’s not as bad as Hitler.”When Airbnb first pitched their idea at me, that you’d stay on an airbed in a stranger’s house, I was not excitedMarcus HawkinsOut on the exhibition floor, I meet Marcus Hawkins, another Brit. He’s from Norfolk and has successfully run his own software company for a decade or so but he recently set up a new company, Patrolo, a business-to-business enterprise offering a website mistake-correction service. What are you disrupting, I ask him. He thinks for a moment. “King’s Lynn.”We swap other bits of jargon we’ve picked up. Have you pivoted, I say, a piece of startup-ese I’d learned five minutes earlier. It means to change your business strategy rapidly. “I’ve pivoted so many times I’m practically facing backwards,” he says. “But it’s OK. I have a lot of runway left.” Which is the amount of time a startup has before the money runs out, he explains.With the flights and so on, it was a £6,000 gamble to come, he says, “but I know everyone says this. But what we’re offering is unique.”And unique is what Sam Altman tells me is what investors want. They want unique. Quirky. Crazy. And he cites the Airbnb example that everyone cites, though in fairness he was actually there at the time. “When Airbnb first pitched their idea at me, that you’d stay on an airbed in a stranger’s house, I was not excited at all by that. Only halfway through did they develop the idea of renting the whole apartment and then I got excited. If the ideas aren’t crazy enough, the industry is not taking enough risk.”It’s something you’d be hard-pushed to say of some of the startups here. I inspect a smart dog bowl aimed at preventing your dog from overeating, a wristband that will tell a woman precisely when she’s at her most fertile, and a robotic cooking machine that has a lot of parts that look like they’d need washing up.Even rapper Snoop Dogg is attempting to establish a tech startup – with the vital ingredient of cannabis.Photograph: Tim Mosenfelder/Getty ImagesAnd any number of cannabis-related businesses. Since marijuana was made legal in four states, the tech industry has rushed into the space. “There’s going to be a marijuana unicorn,” a man from a website called Investing in Cannabis tells me. “It’s hotter than hot right now. Everyone’s placing their bets.” A point that is proven when Snoop Dogg takes to the stage to announce his cannabis startup,Merry Jane(a lifestyle media site aimed at cannabis users).The inventiveness of the hardware and ingenuity of the software and chutzpah of everyone is quite mind-boggling. There are so many ideas and so much energy and hard work and, more often than not, hard-earned cash being invested in them. If you have come from Bratislava, you’ll have put your own money into the business, a Slovak startup founder called Lukas Alner tells me. “Whereas here, they all graduate from Stanford and Harvard and then go and work in the same places. If they want to make a contact or raise money, they just pick up the phone. It’s very hard to break into that as an outsider. They are pack animals.”We all love to talk about disruption. But if you are doing something disruptive, people are getting hurtVinod KhoslaAnd then there’s the small matter of what it may all mean one day not long from now. Where all this innovation will lead – a question I contemplate when a founder from Hong Kong called Henry Hu shows me Cafe X, a robotic coffee machine which, he claims, makes perfect artisanal cappuccino.So you’re disrupting baristas? “No,” he says. “A barista will design the programme which the machine will copy. So, we are extending the skills of talented baristas to a lot more people.”Yadda, yadda, yadda. A Dublin-based startup shows me impressive software that uses “machine creativity” to create graphic art. “Sixty one per cent of the cost of video games is the artwork,” the co-founder, Eric Risser, tells me. “We’re disrupting that.”So you’re putting artists out of work? “No, we’re enabling video-games companies to create more and better games.”*****The truth is, it’s a dog-eat-dog world out there. Disrupt or be disrupted. As Vinod Khosla, a somewhat irascible billionaire and head of a leading venture capital firm reminds the audience: “We all love to talk about disruption. But if you are doing something disruptive, people are getting hurt. Revolutions are hard on people. People get hurt.”It’s what is forgotten in all of this. If it is a bubble, and if it bursts, the VCs will be OK, of course they will. They’re already rich. It’ll be the little people who will suffer. The 1,100 employees of Groupon who just lost their jobs will be a tiny taste of the pain to come. The ripple of potential consequences vast and as yet unknowable.And if it isn’t a bubble, if the world really has changed, and economic laws too, and everything keeps going up and up and up, it’s still the little people who’ll suffer. The great swaths of us whose services will no longer be required in a coming era that is just around the corner. In the past 18 months, all of us who live in cities around the world have watched as taxi drivers have protested and lost their livelihoods and Uber has swept in and cleaned up, taking 20% of every fare along the way. Don’t think this is going to stop at taxis – where Uber is going to end up is more or less anyone’s guess. Last month I met the head of Carnegie Mellon University’s robotics faculty, whose entire department has just been poached by the firm. Including him.First they came for the booksellers and I did not speak out because I was not a bookseller. Next they came for the taxi drivers etc etc. Then baristas, divorce lawyers, artists, journalists… there are not going to be an awful lot of jobs of any description left. How any of us are going to be earning a living in 20 years’ time, in 10 years’ time, is something that most of us aren’t thinking about. In this light, building a startup that has a 90% chance of failure looks like a pretty smart option.“I think there is going to be massive job destruction in the next 10 to 20 years,” says Sam Altman. “I think we are already seeing it. Technology increases wealth but it also concentrates it. There’s a huge coming threat to all of us.”Companies in Silicon Valley think differently from the rest of us. Their ambition is of a different order. Their rate of growth is like nothing we’ve ever seen before. And it’s in San Francisco, where technology meets the real world, that we’re starting to see the beginnings of what this clash of civilisations will look like. Or as Altman puts it: “If founders in San Francisco can build a new $50bn company in five years but the city can’t approve a single new housing development in that time, that’s a mismatch.”It’s all a mismatch. We and the great tech world we’re building. But then I probably would say that. My industry is just one of hundreds in the throes of the Great Disruption. Yours too, possibly. Even if you haven’t realised it yet. It might not just be startups that need to learn to pivot.
‘I think women are about to take over tech’Graceann BennettPlsPlsMeGraceann Bennett of PlsPlsMe at TechCrunch Disrupt.Photograph: Will Whipple/Observer“I was raised Mormon and was a virgin mom and bride and I just didn’t know how to discuss sex. Ten years into the marriage we tried to fix it but there just wasn’t the right thing. The sex therapist was too clinical,Cosmowas too cheesy.“PlsPlsMe is going to enable couples to talk about intimacy in a fun, playful way. We’re launching an app but it’s going to be much more than that. I was a brand strategist with Ogilvy &amp; Mather working on some of the world’s biggest brands and I’m bringing everything I know to PlsPlsMe. I always thought my husband should automatically know how to turn me on. It’s a really cruel and unusual punishment that you expect men to be able to blow your mind sexually without any user instructions. I think women are going to take over the tech sphere. It’s not really about technology. It’s about using technology in inventive ways that change human dynamics. It’s all the stuff that women are really good at. I almost feel sorry for the guys.”‘I’ve had to hone my pitch to about eight seconds’Steve Pearce, Marcus Hawkins, Tom Howkinspatrolo.comThe Patrolo team at TechCrunch Disrupt.Photograph: Will Whipple/ObserverMarcus: “I’ve met a few venture capitalists but it’s pretty brutal. I’ve had to hone down my pitch to about eight seconds. We’re bootstrapping at the moment. Do you know that term? It’s quite funny all the jargon. We’ve got a lot of ‘runway’ so we’re quite confident. It means the amount of time a startup has before you run out of money.“We’re based in King’s Lynn and Tom is my son, he’s the chief operating officer. We have a web development agency - Binary Drive - but I had the idea for this business and I know everyone says their idea is unique but ours really is. It’s a website-testing service that ensures business sites don’t have any functionality issues.“It’s cost £6,000 to come to TechCrunch including flights and so on, so it feels like a bit of a gamble, but we’ve signed up a bunch of people and I do feel like it’s been worth it. We’ve had proof of concept. We know there’s a market there.”‘The idea came when I took my dog to the vet’Hilary Jensen Wade, Nahid AlamObedog.comHilary Jensen Wade and Nahid Alam of Obe.dog at TechCrunch Disrupt.Photograph: Will Whipple/Observer“I worked for Google in product management and marketing before this,” says Jensen Wade. “The idea came when I took my dog, DJ, to the vet and he told me he needed to lose 10 pounds. I hadn’t realised he was overweight and it turns out a lot of owners don’t - more than half the dogs in America are obese. I wanted to find a way to manage a dog’s weight loss gradually. Our smart dog bowl shows you exactly how to feed and re-orders the food online.Alam says: “I’m a senior design engineer and it’s still quite rare to have a woman in a senior technical position. I’ve been to hackathons where I’m the only woman in the room. We had $200,000 from an investor and are planning to crowdfund online. It’s very exciting for me to design a product and see it through every stage to the end.”‘We are going to revolutionise video games’Eric Risser, Neal O’GormanArtomatixEric Risser and Neal O’Gorman of Artomatix at TechCrunch Disrupt.Photograph: Will Whipple/ObserverRisser: “I did my PhD at Trinity College, Dublin, in this very obscure field of texture synthesis and have written a program that uses machine learning and computer vision to produce ‘machine creativity’. If you feed various inputs into it - for example, a zombie face - it will create endless, unique, completely new variants of it.“Machine creativity has all sorts of possible applications but we’re initially focusing on the $80bn video game industry. Art takes 61% of the budget and a game such asGrand Theft Autotook five years to make. Artomatix will revolutionise that.”O’Gorman: “I’m what you call a serial entrepreneur. This is my third company. I launched my first one in 2000 right as the bubble burst. It took 10 years to come back from that. There were huge challenges in raising money. The development team will stay in Ireland but we need a presence in Silicon Valley, that’s the way it works.”‘The cannabis industry is really taking off’Andrew Katz, Ben Curren, Trae RobrockGreen BitsAndrew Katz, Ben Curren and Trade Robrock of cannabis tech startup Green Bits at TechCrunch Disrupt.Photograph: Will Whipple/ObserverRobrock: “Ben had already set up and sold two other companies and we were looking at new ideas. We looked at drone photography, all sorts of things. But the cannabis industry is really taking off. By 2020, it’s estimated to be worth $8bn in retail sales. It’s recreationally legal in four states and medically in 26 but it’s spreading more quickly than anyone predicted.“The legislation is very complicated though and that’s where Green Bits comes in. It’s a point-of-sale system that tracks every plant as required by federal leglislation.“People do sometimes think that we’re a bunch of potheads, or that our customers are, but they couldn’t be more wrong.”Curren: “We’ve just come second in TechCrunch’s startup battlefield, which is a pretty big deal. There’s still stigma around the cannabis industry. None of the big VCs has invested yet but they will. It’s too big to ignore. It’s like the end of prohibition. We’re looking for $10m. Our cash flow is already good.“I’m really competitive and I want Green Bits to be the first company that a big venture capital makes a significant investment in. It would be a real landmark moment for the whole industry.”
NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden arrived on Twitter last week. Within half an hour of his@Snowdenaccount launching, he’d beaten the 72,000 followers amassed by the only feed Snowden himself is following - that of the National Security Agency itself. He’s currently on 1.2m and rising, while his first Tweet was, “Can you hear me now?” – a jingle used by US telecoms giant Verizon in television ads. He’s right up there with our top 10 Twitter debuts…Celebrity trailblazer:@apluskActor Ashton Kutcher was one of the early Twitter celebs. In 2009, he opened with “dropping my first Tweet” and three months later, became the first to hit 1 million followers. He went onOprahthe same week to help Winfrey post her own debut: “HI TWITTERS. THANK YOU FOR A WARM WELCOME. FEELING REALLY 21st CENTURY.” Mum, turn your caps lock off.Shortest, sweetest greeting:@BigBirdThe 8ft 2in Sesame Street resident was a bird of few words, opening in February with: “Tweet?”Most confused debut:@snookiJersey Shorereality numpty Nicole “Snooki” LaValle’s first tweet back in 2009 was typically hapless: “idk wtf im doing”.Most excited world leader:@POTUSHe and the White House already had accounts but Obama wasn’t given a presidential account until May and seemed chuffed: “Hello, Twitter. It’s Barack. Really! Six years in, they’re finally giving me my own account.”Earliest overshare:@robdelaneyHe found fame as “the funniest comedian on Twitter” but theCatastrophestar’s first missive in 2009 was: “I’m about to go onstage in Minneapolis. After I finish my tuna melt and go pee.” See also @DannyDeVito “I don’t really get this site or how it works. My nuts are on fire.”Most nail-biting start:@lordemusicThe Kiwi singer-songwriter joined up in 2012 and opened with: “i think my fingernails are too short to be a member of the twittersphere.” Her nails now have their own spoof account, obviously.Most reluctant tweeter:@DrakeThe Canadian hip-hop star started in 2009 with a weary sigh of: “Fine… you got me.” Rivalled by comic book royalty @TheRealStanLee a few months later: “I just signed on to Twitter today. Don’t want it or need it, but don’t wanna be out of the action!”Sweariest opening salvo:@SamuelLJacksonHe dropped plentiful F-bombs inPulp Fictionand life imitated art when the actor opened his account in 2011: “Can-a muh fukkasay fuck on here?”Fastest follower-gathering:@Caitlyn_JennerIn June, the reality star broke all records by gathering 1 million followers in a mere four hours. Her first tweet? A pic of that “Call me Caitlyn”Vanity Faircover, followed by: “I’m so happy after such a long struggle to be living my true self.”Most incomprehensible opening lines:@LilTunechiAs Louisiana rapper Lil Wayne so sagely opined in 2010: “im super new to this twitter shit but wudup tho !..follow me biot¢h…wudup mak…happy bday LO...8 days of freedom..ym”. Riiiiight.
Uber is not perfect. It is important to make that point before analysing Transport for London’s attempts to curtail its expansion. The taxi app has not done enough to guarantee the safety of its passengers or stop its prices surging when cities face unique events. On a lighter note, its drivers’ obsession with rigidly following their satnavs can be hugely irritating when that means flying over speed bumps and avoiding traffic-free routes that as a local resident you know are quicker.However, this not an excuse for TfL’s ham-fisted attempt to protect the status quo. The organisation has launched a consultation on plans to overhaul the private-hire car market in London. The proposals include an interval of at least five minutes between booking a car and the start of a journey, a requirement for drivers to pass an English-language test and a map-reading assessment. Taxi firms may also have to operate a landline telephone service and accept bookings up to seven days in advance.You might conclude that these proposals are aimed at curbing Uber and protecting black-cab drivers. Indeed, one of the few groups that has backed the consultation is the Licensed Taxi Drivers Association. However, TfL says the proposals are in the interest of public safety and it is no friend of the black cabbies. Last month, Boris Johnson, even described opponents of Uber as luddites.London, of course, is not the only city in the world to try to restrict Uber or even ban it outright. But, as with the other moves around the world, the TfL plan smells of an attempt to turn back the clock. Users of Uber have already expressed their outrage, with more than 100,000 people signing a petition opposing TfL’s plans.Once you give people access to something new, it is difficult to rescind it. Transport is actually one of the few industrial sectors yet to be touched by the online revolution. High-street retailers would dearly love to ban Amazon for online orders to only be delivered after a week, but that is not going to happen.In the film ofJurassic Park, Jeff Goldblum reacts incredulously to the scientists’ plan to stop the dinosaurs breeding and getting out of control. “Life finds a way,” he says. That is something TfL and London’s cabbies should bear in mind. While holding Uber to higher standards is welcome, deliberately attempting to suppress its unique selling point is not.London’s black cabs, their drivers, and the “knowledge” test they have to pass to become accredited are wonderful traditions. However, the world has moved on and so should they. If black cabs want to compete with Uber then they need to lower their prices and improve their service. Sadly, satnavs have made the knowledge less valuable.There are concerns that the growth of Uber will flood London’s roads with extra cars. But the rise of the so-called “sharing economy”, which also includes holiday rent website Airbnb, should ultimately lead to a more efficient use of resources.One of the most frustrating posters in the capital at the moment is one by TfL stations that states: “We don’t make a profit because we reinvest all our income to run and improve your services.” The undertone is that it is a good guy and profits are bad.Does this somehow make it OK to award TfL executives lucrative pay deals or impose expensive fares on commuters?Even if does it not make profits in the traditional sense, more than 400 TfL executives earn more than £100,000 a year, as they benefit from the dominance of the organisation in London.Now that Uber has come along, it poses an uncomfortable threat to the establishment. Ultimately, all sides can make themselves stronger and improve travelling around London for millions of people by challenging each other.But as the “sharing economy” grows, expect this debate to be repeated many times.Hooray for UK’s overdue rise, but beware bosses wielding knivesMorrisons, Lidl and Ikea are all taking George Osborne’s new national living wage as a jumping-off point for even bigger pay awards next year. The living wage of £7.20 an hour will take effect from April, boosting the basic hourly rate for over-25 by 50p from the current minimum wage. Morrisons will increase pay for90,000 shop floor staff of all ages, not just over-25s, to £8.20 an hour, and do it from March, not April. This amounts to a hefty 20% increase from the retailer’s current £6.83 minimum.Lidl said that from next month, 9,000 UK workerswould receive at least £8.20 an hour in England, Scotland and Wales, and £9.35 in London. Ikea was less generous, though it will still pay more than the new minimum.This all adds up to a bumper rise for Britain’s lowest-paid. Three cheers for Osborne, one might say. But the labour market cannot be fixed overnight by Treasury diktats. Gordon Brown understood this when he first introduced the minimum wage. There will, for example, be job losses. The Office for Budget Responsibility predicts that 60,000 people will lose their jobs as employers cope with higher pay by cutting staff numbers.Some young people, excluded from the living wage, will seek other ways to occupy their time, which will bring down the UK’s high labour market participation rate. Some may opt to stay in education, which would appear beneficial, unless the UK finds itself in the same fix as France, where many spend a decade or more gaining post-A-level qualifications – at huge cost to the state – before entering the job market.A plan to boost apprenticeshipsmight address this, but a levy on businesses to pay for it is facing resistance from big employer groups who worry that quality training will be sacrificed in the pursuit of numbers.Unless employers are persuaded of the need for higher pay, they may well compensate by taking a scythe to other forms of pay, pensions and training budgets. It’s vital that Osborne recognises that.Who needs people’s QE?Many have scoffed at Jeremy Corbyn’s idea for people’s QE – a variant of the quantitative easing that the Bank of England has been pursuing since the financial crisis. Corbyn aimed to tackle the criticism of electronic-money printing – that it goes straight to the banks and disappears without trace – by suggesting that the money should be directed to infrastructure projects.Dangerous, say the naysayers, because people’s QE would destabilise political discipline over deficits and public spending. Yet the payment protection insurance mis-selling scandal is its own variant of people’s QE. Some £20bn has come out of the coffers of the banks and into the pockets of 10 million people wrongly sold these insurance products. The car industry has admitted to having a boost from the payments and other sectors have no doubt also been bolstered by the extra spending power. This is a form of QE that has come straight from the financial sector and very much left its mark on the economy.
Lego DimensionsPS3, PS4, Wii U, Xbox 360, Xbox One, Warner Bros., cert: 7★★★★Gamers familiar withSkylanderswill be instantly at home with the “toys to life” format ofLego Dimensions. For everyone else, here special real-world Lego models can be placed on a pedestal, appearing moments later in the game as interactive characters and vehicles. As with developer TT Games’ previous Lego titles,Dimensionsfocuses on puzzle-solving and light combat in a world built from the plastic bricks. An emphasis on blending existing licensed worlds sees locales and characters fromBatman, The SimpsonsandThe Wizard of Ozamong othersinterwoven with real grace and plenty of wit.WhereDimensionsexcels, however, is in playing to Lego’s strengths. The real Lego sets can be rebuilt to reflect changes and progress in-game, resulting in a spellbinding merging of the physical and digital. Additional sets, meanwhile, add quality new models and in-game content. But they don’t come cheap, and the game’s habit of suggesting introducing extra models is almost certain to irk some parents while leaving players longing for more.WFAnki OverdriveiOS, Android, Anki, cert: 9★★★★★‘A fine successor to a great debut’: Anki Overdrive.Moving on from the pleasingly original concept showcased in last year’sScalextric-styleAnki Drive,Overdrivebrings snap-together track, new cars and game modes to the franchise in which real-life vehicles automatically steer themselves around the slot-less track as competitors use the app to hit the perfect racing line, control speed and trigger virtual laser fire, EMP blasts or drop mines. Because the cars are powered, the track can be flexed up and down, around furniture or even used outside. The app also enables cars to be upgraded and customised for the next race, while the play modes, including King of the Hill, Battleand Time Trial, underlineAnki’s gaming rather than simulation aspirations.The starter kit, it should be noted, isn’t cheap at £149.99, but offers eight tracks and two cars. Additional cars, of which four can be raced at a time, are £49.99 each, but last year’sAnki Drivevehicles are also compatible. Masterfully combining physical and virtual racing toys to create a highly enjoyable and entirely new experience,Overdriveis a fine successor to a great debut.ARFifa 16PS4, PS3, Xbox One, 360, PC, EA, cert: 3★★★★‘Cerebral passing is encouraged’: Fifa 16.Photograph: PRFollowing on fromPro Evolution Soccer’s warm-up act last week,Fifa 16arrives on the scene, with the defending champion facing a tougher test than in recent years. There are incremental improvements, but the obsession with the superficial endures, the build-up to a match resembling Sky Sports more than ever. There’s an added physicality to the players this time, rendering pace less of a killer and giving defenders greater options for easing attackers off the ball. Cerebral passing is encouraged, too, coming to the fore in the women’s game, which is represented by 12 teams.The other big addition is that of a draft mode to the increasingly popular Ultimate Team. Rather than spending months building a squad, you can dive right in with players, draft a quality group and take on four increasingly difficult challenges, with big rewards. But the scarcity of goals at higher levels will not be to everyone’s taste, and the endless replays still frustrate, meaning for the first time in a whileFifaisn’t a clear winner on the virtual pitch.TM
Price: £17,199Engine: 1,330ccBHP: 115Gears: 6-speed autoTop speed: 110mphRange: 220 milesCommon sense tells you that if you build a vehicle that’s a weird amalgam of all the worst aspects of a motorbike and marry them with all the inconveniences of a small car, you end up with a useless mongrel. You’ll have an open-sided three-wheeler with no roof, no doors, no windscreen and no seatbelts. You’ll get cold and wet yet you can’t slalom through traffic. You won’t be able to park it in that tight space outside your flat and you can’t fill the boot with a big family shop. What common sense doesn’t tell you is that theSpyder F3 Sis about as much fun as you can have on your own, in public and with the lights on. For some reason what makes no sense on paper makes total sense in the flesh.TheSpyder F3 Sis the latest trike from Can-Am. The company is a subsidiary of Bombardier, which is a world leader in building things that put a big grin on your face. It makes Ski-Doos and Sea-Doos, and a host of all-terrain vehicles which look likeMad Maxstunt vehicles. The Spyder has been with us for a few years now. Can-Am, in a canny move, gave the first one it built toJay Leno. Last month it manufactured its 100,000th – and it gave that one to him, too.Rear view: the cruiser is both stable and comfortable.Most motorised trikes have two wheels at the back and one at the front. They’re a danger physically, as they have a tendency to topple over, while at the same time delivering a body blow to your sense of self-esteem. The Spyder, however, has a unique Y-shaped footprint: its two wheels are at the front. This makes it stable and incredibly comfortable to ride. It has anti-lock brakes and traction control as well as anti-roll technology. You can plug in your iPod and TomTom, and it has a neat digital dash. In America Can-Am showrooms are popping up next to Harley-Davidson dealers in an attempt to lure diehard bikers off their hogs. They won’t be disappointed. The Spyder can be personalised and has customised peg and handlebar positions to suit your riding style. Greener-minded Hell’s Angels may also like its Eco-mode system, which improves fuel economy. They’ll all like the power and torque they get from the liquid-cooled Rotax 1330 ACE engine. By law you are permitted to ride the trike without a helmet (or in fact a mullet), but obviously you’d be nuts to risk it.Riding the Spyder is like sitting on a mobile throne. It’s like an ultra convertible. Unsurprisingly it attracts endless attention. One enthusiastic admirer drove alongside and filmed me on his phone. He then jumped out to show me his footage when I stopped at the lights. “It’sSpyder Man: The Movie,” I joked. But he didn’t get it…Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter at@MartinLove166
Everyone hates mobile ads – even advertisers.Related:Can publishers stop the ad blocking wave?In the midst of the advertising industry’s annual summit in New York last week, agency directors, media buyers and other ad-world professionals were up in arms about ad-blocking software expanding and improving beyond their capability to defeat it. Many admitted they have no one to blame but themselves.As executives prepared to descend on Manhattan for Advertising Week, there was one topic of conversation: Apple had just made ad-blocking mainstream. The company’s shiny new mobile operating system, iOS 9, allows anyone using an iPhone to cut out ads, taking a bite out of the $31.9bn mobile ad market, not long ago touted as the savior of the publishing industry.But don’t shoot the message-blockers, said Constantine Kamaras, chairman of the board of the Interactive Advertising Bureau (IAB) Europe. They aren’t the real problem.“The broader problem is, in many ways, that in some cases digital advertising has not put at the forefront the fundamental truth that the user experience is paramount,” Kamaras said.“And no advertising that does not respect the user experience, be it in terms of content, in terms of design and creative, or in terms of device functionality is going to work. It’s bad advertising.”Apple’s move is interpreted by many in the industry as a potshot at Google, which is the largest single player in the global digital advertising business and reapedsome $5bn last yearfrom the digital ad market, according to then-CEO Larry Page. (Page now runs Google’s holding company,Alphabet.)But blocking “takes the publishing experience out of publishers’ hands” said Scott Cunningham, IAB senior vice-president of tech and ad operations, adding that it is likely to hurt fledgling e-businesses. Cunningham, both in conversation and at a press conference last week, likened ad blocking to hostage-taking, calling the practice of approving some ads and not others hypocritical.He is not alone – many in the industry are furious. There have even beenlawsuits.That doesn’t change the fact that most consumers loathe seeing ads on their phones. A recent AOL survey found that 75% of online video ad viewers complained about seeing the same ads over and over, 62% were upset that there were so many ads, and nearly half thought the ads went on too long. In every category, respondents were angrier about mobile than tablet or desktop ads.But even the makers of ad-blockers don’t think software that keeps out all advertising is a good solution. Marco Arment, the programmer behind Apple’s No1 ad blocker, Peace, pulled his product after a few days at the top of the charts.“Ad blockers come with an important asterisk: while they do benefit a ton of people in major ways, they also hurt some, including many who don’t deserve the hit,” Armentwrote.Some industry observers, including Google’s Sridhar Ramaswamy, have said the ad industry won’t ultimately suffer but publishers – especially small ones – will.“All the journalism that we love is supported pretty heavily by advertising,” Ramaswamy said at an Advertising Week session. “The real problem is that ad blockers throw out the baby with the bathwater. They remove the diversity that has enriched all of our lives.”And ultimately, consumers and advertisers may have a common enemy in “badvertising”: some of it is virus-ridden and dangerous to both to the consumer and the client.One of Cunningham’s plans to thwart blockers was to increase security for advertisers so that lists of ad networks could be made harder for ad blockers to download; that in turn could help cut back on rampant “click fraud”, in which viruses tell advertisers who pay by the click that their ads have been used many more times than they actually have.That still doesn’t solve the PR problem. Nobody has a favorite web ad and, more critically, digital advertising reliant on viewer profiles has helped to lead the “big data” boom, resulting in so much valuable information housed in so many places that breaches likethe recent, disastrous hackof data giant Experian have become commonplace.Apple’s public objection – echoed by many consumers – to the big-data-fuelled ad model is,in CEO Tim Cook’s words, that “you’re not the customer. You’re the product.”Google doesn’t break out details on its mobile advertising dollars, but its falling cost-per-click (down 3% year-over-year last quarter and 7% the quarter before) seems to indicate a less robust mobile market share and an overreliance on desktop ads (which are losing market share as mobileballoons), and thus a weakness for Apple to exploit.“Apple is one of our largest partners,” said Ramaswamy. “We’ve had a collaborative relationship, but we’ve also had difficulty and competition.”The Google executive said he thought the solution was “a conversation with consumers” about advertising and that privacy concerns were overblown.“People are actually OK that some of their information is used to serve ads,” he said.Related:The rise of ad-blocking could herald the end of the free internetUltimately, Kamaras said: “We have to reconcile the fact that user experience is paramount but also that advertising is critical in financing the ecosystem.”Lawsuits won’t work, he said, nor will ad-blockers-blockers – “Then you’ll get ad-blockers-blockers-blockers.”Instead, Kamaras said, advertisers are going to have to make their case to consumers.“What I see as the best path,” he said, “is a digital entente between users and companies that is based on quality standards and codes of conduct, but also on an understanding that all these services can only be financed, today at least, by advertising.”
One of YouTube’s biggest stars has been accused of trivialising rape amid pressure for firms to distance themselves from the online sensation.Olajide Olatunji, better known as KSI, whose YouTube channel has more than 10.2m subscribers, has been criticised by a coalition of women’s groups for denigrating victims of sexual violence and propagating misogynistic views of women by calling them “sluts”.Days after the publication of KSI’s debut book,I Am A Bellend, the women’s groups are calling for YouTube to remove the 22-year-old’s “rape face” videos. The videos show the star in a variety of settings, turning to camera with a menacing expression and making sexually suggestive gestures.In another YouTube video, published in August 2014, KSI asks a Page 3 model about her sex life, while repeatedly calling her a slut in the voiceover.Three years ago KSI was banned from attending Eurogamer Expo, the UK’s biggest video games showcase, as a consequence ofhis sexually inappropriate behaviourtowards women.KSI’s YouTube channel is the third most subscribed-to, and in Britain with 3m more followers than Ed Sheeran’s. His book was published on 24 September and debuted at No 23 in the UK charts.Sarah Green, of the coalitionEnd Violence Against Women, said: “Trivialising and minimising rape contributes to a culture where rape is not taken seriously, and where survivors of rape are told that what happened to them doesn’t matter. YouTube, KSI’s advertisers and his publisher and other partners should consider whether they want to be associated with that kind of content.”A spokesman for KSI said the star had removed all offensive material from his YouTube channel two years ago, explaining that he had made a “mistake as a teenager” and had previously apologised for it.The row echoes criticism ofDapper Laughs,whose ITV show was pulled last November after he was filmed making a joke about rape. Dapper – real name Daniel O’Reilly – also made his name as a YouTube sensation before footage appeared of him saying to an audience member that she was “gagging for a rape”.A spokesman for KSI said: “He has refrained from referencing, responding to or using the term you mention [rape face] for almost two years. He does not create or support any such montages referred to. This incident was in the past and he has acknowledged it was a mistake. It doesn’t reflect who he is or what he believes in.”YouTube did not respond to requests for a comment.
This weekend, thousands of households are likely to become good natured war zones as families and friends argue over whether to watch the Premier League football or the Rugby World cup. 300 years ago, lucky sports fans didn’t have to worry – because there was no such thing as football, or rugby, or American football for that matter – they all existed together as one sport: hugball.Perhaps the purest of all ball games, legend has it that hugball (also known asShrovetide Football, Mob Football, or la soule in parts of France) used to be played with the head of an executed criminal – though Fifa regulations now generally discourage this. But, no matter the name or the nature of the ball being used, the rules (or lack thereof) were always pretty much the same: two vast teams would rampage through a town or field trying to get an object into the opposing side’s territory.By many accounts, hugball was once played rather widely across Europe, andsimilar sportswere popular worldwide. Why did it fall out of fashion? There’s a simple answer: it’s boring to watch. There’s no final whistle, you can’t tell what’s going on, and it’s pretty dangerous (though arguably that’s also the best part). Since the participants can do anything, with essentially no limits, it’s uninteresting. It’s too close to real life.What a good game does is introduce friction – a limitation that holds you back, and consequently makes the game more challenging to play and fun to watch. Video games offer hundreds of possible frictions. In Super Mario titles the strongest friction is probablyMario’s jump, which is just long and high enough to reach certain platforms, but limited enough to ensure that players often have to be pixel perfect in their timing when navigating the platforms. This friction is so integral to the series that Mario’s first game, Donkey Kong, was originally titled Jumpman. If that jumping mechanic was easier or bigger, the game wouldn’t work. The meticulously designed limitation is what makes it so compulsive.Donkey Kong went through several fundamental design iterations before becoming an arcade smash hitPhotograph: public domainBy adding friction to an otherwise limitless activity, you get a game – and with hugball, each different friction added over the years created a different sport. You can’t use your hands: football. You have to stop play between each tackle: American football. You can only pass the ball backwards, but you can kick forwards: rugby.In football, not being able to touch the ball with your hands opens the game up and spreads the players around the field, creating a fluid and constantly shifting playing area that resists rigid strategy and defies statistical models. In American football, the friction leads to a rather stilted game where tactics have to be carefully pre-planned.Rugby, though, is one of the most fascinating sports from a game design standpoint. The core friction of being forced to pass backwards when you need to go forwards creates a fundamental tension that is released when someone makes a great run, a strong hit – or a perfectly weighted kick forward resulting in a moment of chaos followed by relief or jubilation.Passing backwards forces teams to line up across the field, each player inches behind the other in a gorgeous collapsing human wave, receiving the ball and laying it off in what the All Blacks consider to be a single motion: thecatchpass(not dissimilar to what the Barcelona FC academy refers to as ‘a mig toc’ – half a touch). The regularity of this motion, punctuated by moments of unforeseen brilliance or all-too-predictable failure, is what makes the sport so captivating.Rugby has a long history of tweaking the rules to adjust the game in response to different issues. Take the try, for instance. Coming from the phrase “try at a goal”, the original rules stated that touching the ball down between the posts did not give you any points, but rather gave you the opportunity to try for a goal by kicking the ball between the uprights. After 120 years of twists and turns the rugby world more or less settled on five points per try only in 1992.Another example of the development of rugby is the scrum, which has been part of the sport since its beginnings at the Rugby School in the 19th century. Arguably the most visually striking aspect of the game, it is also the least interesting. Awarded most often when a ball is passed forward, the scrum involves eight players from each side locking heads and pushing against each other to try and gain a position of advantage over the ball. It’s even more dangerous than it sounds. If the scrum collapses, as it does very often, it must be restarted (or if a team is deemed to have collapsed it on purpose, a penalty is awarded).Somewhere aroundhalfof allscrumsfail for one reason or another. It’s the main part of the game where players get injured, and the constant resetting can take up to 20% of the game time. It’s incredibly boring to watch, and only rarely offers any strategic advantage to either team. However, the rugby world seems to be catching on to this – the rules for the scrum continue to be tweaked, resulting in some slow improvement, but more importantly there are signs that many teams are avoiding the scrum entirely whenever possible. In many ways this is game design in action: if a certain way of playing does not provide any advantage, it will eventually die out. Perhaps the scrum will one day become a vestigial part of the game, like theuncaught third strike.Although the scrum has been a part of rugby since its inception, could the time-consuming and dangerous interruption eventually be phased out?Photograph: BPI/REX Shutterstock/BPI/REX ShutterstockMany other sports are very reluctant to significantly tweak rules, resulting in stagnation and angry debate – look at the confusion in football about whether a player can commit a foul evenif he or she gets to the ball first. The world of rugby, however, seems to welcome rule changes with open arms: there have also been alterations to the line-outs, the yellow and red card sanctions, and many other elements. Perhaps this is as a result of there already being a number of variations on rugby – most famously Sevens and Rugby League – so it is easier to imagine how the game could be changed or improved. Or perhaps it is as a result of being a very physical and potentially dangerous game, so a watchful eye must be kept on the rules to make sure injuries are kept to a minimum.In any case, it seems to be working. This year’s Rugby World Cup is breaking viewing figure records worldwide, and it offers a particularly interesting approach to tweaking the game off the field. Since 2003 the group stages have had arelatively unusual points system– wins are worth four points, draws are worth two, and there are two ways of getting bonus points: by scoring four tries in a game and by losing by fewer than eight points. Experimenting with points systems like this can lead to some bizarre and disastrous results –see what happened, for example, when the organisers of football’s Caribbean cup tweaked the rules in the 1994 qualifiers.But the Rugby World Cup rules are working, and they lead to a tantalising possibility - that a team can lose a game and still get two points. In the recent South Africa v Japan upset, the Springboks managed this very feat despite their stunning loss, while Japan only received the minimum victory tally of four. It’s not outlandish to suggest that the points system helped produce such a thrilling result because it encourages teams to score tries, rather than grind out dull victories based entirely on penalties. It also gives teams something to play for all the way through a match even when they are losing, and it goes some way towards evening out some of the huge mismatches in quality between the top tier of teams and everyone else – one of the more intractable problems with international rugby union (theshock Japan resultnotwithstanding).Developing a points system like this is exactly the kind of thinking that goes into video game design, and in many ways the game world would do well to pay attention to rugby. The major sports that we now watch on TV or take part in down the park have had hundreds of years of iterative development and play testing – and game designers are engaged in a similar process. Just as hugball developed into rugby and football, tic-tac-toe has developed into Agricola and Puerto Rico, the ancient randomised maze game Rogue has morphed into Don’t Starve, and Donkey Kong, after many twists and turns, became Canabalt, Fez and Tomb Raider.Good game design is all about tweaking the rules and finding the best solutions to encourage competitive play. What the Rugby World Cup has shown to other sports – and to video games – is that while tradition and structure are important, fun is more important still.
The Mitsubishi pick-up has “Barbarian” in lights across every conceivable surface. It is incredibly beefy and, in the wrong hands, indeed a barbarian. You could back into an innocent Zafira as easily as turning on the radio. The parking camera is worse than useless, slow to respond and, in consequence, wrong about almost everything. But you don’t get a pick-up because it’s easy to park. You get it if you need to pick up a lot of stuff. It’s too large to get into a city dump without a licence, so it’s not your amateur’s pick-up. This is a planner’s pick-up.In rear-wheel drive, it is a bit like a tractor. The gear stick carries on shaking as you turn off the engine. It makes so many noises, I kept thinking there was a police car behind me. “Even the windows are too loud,” said a haughty seven-year-old from the back. Modern cars, I realised, try to mask the raw mechanics, and there is none of that here. Anything you can’t hear, you can feel vibrating. Primary ride events come at you like a fairground attraction: if you can see a crater coming, you know you’re going to feel it. But secondary ride events are significant, too: a seam in the road you wouldn’t even see will knock you around like a squally wind. It’s like driving a shed. “Why are these cowardly cyclists scattering before me?” I asked my mister. “Have you seen the size of yourself?” he replied.Indeed, it’s so heavy that the determining factor in performance is not engine size but gravity: going down the slightest incline, you can be in fourth at 20mph and not even feel it. Going uphill, you have to floor it in third just to get on to a slip road.I was so high up in the cabin, I was at eye level with white vans and other pick-ups. You sort of acknowledge each other – it’s hard not to – and I nod, trying to imagine what it would be like if I really were working. Apparently, these are very popular with American agents (it’s an ironic thing: “Any normal person would be in a Hummer; we could afford one, but prefer this”) and with Islamic State (along with theToyota HilluxandMitsubishi Warrior).In the absence of a higher ironic purpose or an ideological war, it made sense to me only with a party of 10-year-olds on the flatbed, screaming their way around a car park in Surrey Quays (which I definitely did not do, but was hypothetically hilarious). It is neither a city car, nor a country car. It’s a working car, like a working dog: not as charming as a regular one, but more impressive.Mitsubishi L200 Barbarian: in numbersPrice£28,558.80Top speed111mphAcceleration0-62mph in 10.4 secondsCombined fuel consumption42.8mpgCO2emissions173g/kmEco rating5/10Cool rating8/10
Uber has been hit by a string of problems across the world, with London the latest city to threaten the firm’s growth.BrazilUber has just been banned from operating in Rio de Janeiro, the host city of the 2016 Olympics, and São Paulo is on the verge of banning the service for operating as an unregulated business.Earlier this week,Rio mayor Eduardo Paessigned legislation banning Uber and similar applications from operating in the city. “Uber is forbidden,” he said. “We are open to discuss the matter, but it is forbidden.” Uber responded by saying: “It is a sad day for Rio.”There have been several violent attacks in Brazil against Uber drivers.Related:Uber's global battle moves to LondonFranceIn Paris, authorities raidedUber’s offices in Marchand two of its executives arrested in Juneappeared in court earlier this week. The hearing has been delayed so both sides can review evidence that has recently come to light. The pair, Thibaud Simphal and Pierre-Dimitri Gore-Coty, face up to five years in prison and fines of €300,000 (£220,000) per charge over allegations of fraudulent commercial activity, operating an illegal taxi service and maintaining illegal databases containing personal information of drivers and passengers.Uber has become the focus of protests in France. In June, singer Courtney Love criticised the French president, François Hollande, claiming she would have been safer in Baghdad after her taxi got caught up in a protestagainst the Uber app.The NetherlandsDutch police raided Uber’s offices inAmsterdamon Tuesday as part of an ongoing criminal investigation into whether the firm was violating the country’s taxi laws by operating a service that allows untrained drivers and those without a taxi licence to offer a cheaper service.CanadaUber’s efforts to break into the Vancouver taxi market have been met with resistance from cab drivers who took out an injunction against the firm in 2014. Uber adviser David Plouffe recently told the city’s board of trade that it was a shame the firm had not been welcomed.In Toronto this week, mayor John Tory said his patience with Uber was wearing thin after the firm gave him what he described as “a one finger salute” to the council’s request for it to shut its cheaper service UberX.Related:Uber: the smartphone app that is driving London cabbies to distractionIndiaDelhibanned Uber in December after awomansaid she was raped by one of the company’s drivers. The incident provoked outrage at Uber’s failure to check whether its drivers had a clean police record. Uber claims it has tightened the ways it carries out background checks on drivers and improved safety measures.Delhi’s transport department complained earlier this year that Uber was still operating, despite the ban. In June, police started enforcing the ban more rigorously by hailing cars from Uber and confronting them when they arrived. About 300 drivers from Uber and other banned services protested that the ban threatened their livelihoods.
Uber’s running global battle with taxi drivers, politicians and legal authorities moves to London next week with a court hearing that could deal a blow to the ride-hailing app in one of its most successful markets.The San Francisco-based company has 18,000 registered partners, or drivers, in the UK capital. But that growth could be checked in the high court on Monday when London’s transport regulator, Transport for London (TfL), asks a judge to decide whether Uber is breaking the law.Related:From Rio to Paris - Uber is fighting battles across the globeTfL, controlled by the London mayor, Boris Johnson, has been an ally of Uber in the past but it stepped up the pressure before the hearing this week bylaunching proposals to curb its business.The development has been welcomed by black-cab drivers, who have staged protests against a smartphone app that they claim operates as a surrogate metering system. This undercuts black-cab operators who must adhere to a metering tariff set by TfL.Related:Uber fires back in high court row with TfLWarren Cresdee, 52, says: “I’ve been driving a black cab in London for 29 years and I’ve definitely noticed a bit of a downturn with the advent of Uber. At first I did wonder whether it was a bit of a fad for youngsters with that app. But if you don’t have to obey all the regulations, you can undercut everybody.”Uber, whose financial backers includingGoldman Sachshave invested nearly $10bn (£6.5bn) in the firm, views TfL’s recent moves as an assault on its growth in Europe’s largest city. However, London is far from the only metropolis to take against Uber.Its services were banned in Rio de Janeiro in Brazil this weekwhile drivers in New South Wales, Australia, have had their licences suspended. Other cities where taxi drivers have staged protests, or authorities have challenged Uber, include Amsterdam, Delhi and Vancouver.In London, Uber quicklylaunched a petition against the TfL proposals, asking its customers to let the regulator know they felt “riders and drivers come first”. Within hours, about 100,000 supporters had signed their names appealing to TfL not to make life any harder for Uber.TfL’s proposals include: insisting on a five-minute delay for bookings; preventing operators from showing vehicles that are available for instant hire via an app; and new controls on ride-sharing that could threaten Uber’s plans to introduce a car-sharing service.That petition will carry little weight in the high court on Monday, when TfL will ask a judge to decide whether the way Uber’s app calculates fares breaks the law.Addison Lee, Europe’s biggest minicab company with 4,000 drivers in London, has called on the courts to stop what it says is Uber’s “unchecked, unregulated and unlawful taxi metering system”.Related:Why won't Boris Johnson let Uber break the cab 'cartel'? Votes, maybe?The Uber system, which was provisionally approved by TfL, “gives Londoners the worst of all possible worlds with untrained drivers choosing any route they want to maximise fares”, says the minicab firm. Black-cab operators use TfL-regulated meters, which protect drivers from losing money in the event of being held up in congestion or roadworks, a frequent occurrence in London. As the taxi ticks over in a traffic jam, so does the meter. Black cab operators argue that Uber should not be afforded this protection because it is not regulated as onerously and therefore does not deserve such a privilege. Cab firms such as Addison Lee are not metered and they offer fixed fares ahead of a journey.With the Uber app, passengers request a ride which drivers accept; the driver then shows the route and destination. The fare is calculated by the app as well, which makes it similar to a meter. Uber’s rivals argue that this method incentivises the drivers to take longer routes since they will produce bigger fares.Addison Lee’s chief executive officer, Liam Griffin, says he is in favour of a two-tier regulatory system, that distinguishes black-cab operators from others. “The regulations should be designed to make the private hire experience an efficient one but not the same as a black-cab one.”Griffin says the court case “could potentially have a devastating effect on Uber’s London business”, if it goes the wrong way.Related:Want a cheap Uber taxi? Wait till no one else wants oneGriffin believesTfL has found itself in a dilemmaby not sticking to its regulations all along and allowing a fudging of the rules that has let Uber on to the capital’s street. “If TfL had wanted to enforce the rules and had the inclination and foresight to do so, we would not be in this position now,” Griffin says.Uber has always argued that an app on a smartphone is not a meter and does not have the physical equipment or processes to replicate a black-cab meter system. It thinks the case highlights the challenges with detailed regulations, but feels it will be able to operate whatever the outcome, although with a potentially less customer-friendly app in the future.“All these regulations and requirements – and this court case – are designed to protect the black-cab industry,” says Uber.News that TfL was even considering such a clampdown on some of Uber’s practices took many by surprise sinceJohnsonhas usually appeared sympathetic to Uber and even recently described the black-cab drivers as “luddites”.The head of the Institute of Directors lobby group, Simon Walker, called on the mayor to stand by his free market principles and leave Uber alone. A number of Conservative councillors have written to the mayor, urging him to think again over a possible crackdown.Related:Will Uber kill the black cab?Not surprisingly, the proposals do not go down well with most Uber drivers. “You shouldn’t be punished for doing something that makes life cheaper and more comfortable,” says Uber registered partner Ali Alnasari, who is writing a thesis on the taxi market at Middlesex University when he is not driving a car.“I admire the black-cab operators and they are an iconic symbol of London. They have studied hard and I respect that, but this is 2015 and we need to evolve,” he says.
The European Court of Justice has ruled in favour of the Hungarian data protection authority in its case against Slovakian property site Weltimmo. It’s a landmark ruling that could have big implications for companies such as Facebook and Google, operating across multiple EU countries.TheECJ ruled Thursdaythat if a company operates a service in the native language of a country, and has representatives in that country, then it can be held accountable by the country’s national data protection agency despite not being headquartered in the country.Ashley Winton, UK head of data protection and privacy at law firm Paul Hastings said: “This landmark ruling from the ECJ has changed the face of data protection for companies operating across multiple EU jurisdictions, particularly those who are consumer facing.”Changes to one-stop-shopThe case was brought by the Hungarian data protection authority against property website Weltimmo, which operates a property advertising service in Hungary but is based in Slovakia. The ECJ decided that Weltimmo could be liable for fines imposed by the Hungarian authority for breach of national data protection law.Before the judgment, companies such as Facebook which choose to headquarter their European operations in one country, such as Ireland, were thought to be subject to regulation only within that country. The companies could then operate in any EU member state without having to gain regulatory approval in each country.“This was to the benefit of many companies, some of whom elected to create an establishment in the UK or Ireland, where data protection laws and practices are more liberal and arguably more business friendly,” said Winton.The Google Spain case of 2014 that led to the “right to be forgotten” ruling brought that proposition into question, and the Weltimmo case now puts it on shaky ground.The ruling means that Weltimmo could be liable for the 10m Hungarian forint (£23,650) fine levied by the Hungarian authority over the passing of user information to debt collection agencies, which was found to infringe Hungarian data protection laws.But the implications for the likes of Facebook and Google could be vast.“This [ruling could] dramatically increase compliance costs, particularly where a website is targeted at multiple member states, making the company subject to multiple data protection authorities. With the appetite for enforcement high across a number of member states, the repercussions for non-compliance could be huge,” said Winton.Basis of operations in the countryThe case revolves around what constitutes a company’s “establishment” within a country. Should a company be found to have operations within a country, such as representatives registered in the country, bank accounts, offices or similar, then fines can be applied by local data protection authorities.If, however, “establishment” cannot be proven, then the local data protection authority cannot impose penalties outside of its own state and must rely on the data protection authority in the company’s base of operations.Several cases have been brought against Facebook over privacy across Europe,including in BelgiumandAustria, where the national data protection authorities have argued that Facebook has breached their national laws.The ruling could give those national data protection authorities more power to enforce local rules, and is likely to impactboth the Max Schrems caseandthe Belgian data protection lawsuitagainst Facebook.New rules governing the one-stop-shop approach to regulation across Europe are currently under development having been proposed by the European Commission andcurrently within a “trilogue”between the EC, the European parliament and the Council of the European Union discussing each of their amendments to the EC’s proposal.Facebook accused of spying on Belgian citizens like the NSA
A man was able to successfully buy google.com, the domain name for the world’s most popular website, for $12 (£7.90), minutes before the company contacted him to say the transaction had been cancelled.Sanmay Ved, a former Google employee, was using the tech firm’s new domain buying service Google Domains at 1.30am on 29 September when he noticed that google.com was available to buy. He added it to his shopping cart and, to his surprise, the transaction went through.“I used to work at Google so I keep messing around with the product. I type in Google.com and to my surprise it showed it as available,”Ved told Business Insider. “I thought it was some error, but I could actually complete check out.”Sanmay Ved’s ownership of Google.com lasted a mere minute. The company quickly emailed to say it had cancelled the order and Ved was refunded.Photograph: Sanmay Ved/LinkedInInstead of receiving the normal confirmation emails from the company, Ved’s inbox and Google Webmaster Tools (also known as Google Search Console) was updated with sensitive information intended for the original owners of the domain – the webmasters of Google.Ved’s ownership of google.com lasted a mere minute. The company quickly emailed him to say it had cancelled the order because someone had registered the site before he could. Ved was refunded the $12 that had already been charged.“So for one minute I had access,” Ved said. “At least I can now say I’m the man who owned google.com for a minute.”It is unclear what happened to allow Ved to purchase the site. It could have been a bug in Google Domains or the company simply failed to renew its domain name when the time came.Ved said he has reported the breach to Google’s security team, who are looking into the incident. “The scary part was I had access to the webmaster controls for a minute,” he said.A Google representative said the firm was looking into the issue, but had not noticed anything unusual.The incident echoes a mishap by Microsoft in 2003, when it forgot to renew the well-known hotmail.co.uk domain in time. The domain name was bought by a member of the public who immediately contacted Microsoft and arranged to hand it over.
Kevin Systrom is posing for a photograph when we meet atInstagramHQ, arms splayed across the back of a sleek black sofa, with a knowing grin. “Morephotos!” he sighs, as he is moved to another spot in the room, with all the unconvincing exasperation of someone who quite likes having his picture taken. And so he should, because as the co-founder of Instagram, he gets asked a lot.Systrom is a rangy 6ft 5in and prides himself on dressing smartly, bySilicon Valleystandards; today he wears a light grey jacket over his T-shirt, and dark trousers. He seems older than his 31 years and has a certain swagger, exuding the self-assurance that comes with having built a $35bn technology company and a personal fortune of around $400m.In a former life, this meeting room was bland and corporate – white plastic table, grey carpet, black mesh chairs – but a visit fromAl Gorein May last year changed all that, Systrom says. “This,” he says, channelling the former vice-president’s scorn, “is an Instagram meeting room?” He called a designer friend from San Francisco, who sourced green 1970s chairs and a huge white marble table, customised wallpaper based on staff fingerprints, and prints of favourite pictures taken by the Instagram team.On the other side of the freeway sitsFacebook’s newest,Frank Gehry-designed office, housing 2,800 in one giant room. Given Instagram’s strong sense of aesthetic, you’d think they’d mind not having space insidetheir mothership, but Systrom insists they operate as a separate company; they are tucked away instead on Facebook’s Menlo Park campus. It’s a sprawling, pristine, plain set of buildings from the outside, the former home ofSun Microsystems, wedged between the freeway and the swampy southern edges of San Francisco Bay. The receptionist is baffled that I have arrived by public transport; Facebook and Instagram staff either drive or are shuttled the 38 miles from San Francisco in luxury coaches with Wi-Fi and air conditioning, presumably so they can keep working until the last possible moment. Inside, the floor is stripped back to the concrete and the walls are decorated with motivational posters: “Kick the shit out of Plan B”; “Leadership is best measured by what people do when you’re not around”; “Looking for love in the great forest of like.” Inside a central courtyard there is an ice-cream parlour, brightly coloured food stalls, wooden benches and energetic young people looking as if they are busy changing the world.Related:Instagram passes 400m users as young shun tweets for photo opFounded five years ago, Instagram was born during a summer holiday in Mexico’s boho beach town ofTodos Santos. Then 26, Systrom was sketching out new app ideas for the aspiring location service Burbn he was building (users could check in at various locations, and report back on their meet-ups), having already secured a $250,000 investment. Talking through an idea to introduce photographs to Burbn, Systrom’s girlfriend,Nicole Schuetz, said she wouldn’t want to post hers, because they wouldn’t look good enough; her iPhone 4 didn’t have a great camera. The answer, they concluded, was to add filters. By the end of the day, Systrom had created the X-Pro II filter and posted an image ofa dog and Schuetz’s footon an early version of Instagram (codenamed Codename).“That first picture became everything and more than we wanted it to be,” he says, pointing out that the office coffee table is built around a giant print of that first photograph. “Back then, there was no way of showing what was going on in your life, as it happened. Facebook was still primarily desktop,Flickrwas about uploading from your SLR camera, and Twitter barely had any photo support. That left this opportunity wide open to share what was happening in your life visually.” Instagram was born just a few months after the iPhone 4, a way of disguising its low-quality pictures. Since then, Systrom explains, filter usage has declined as mobile picture quality has improved. Instagram itself, however, has done anything but decline, with an unfathomable 40bn photos shared to date.Systrom with Jamie Oliver, Russell Brand and Liam Payne.Photograph: Getty ImagesDid he foresee the size to which the site would grow? “Obviously, we couldn’t have predicted the scale, but it makes sense. Our brains are primarily visual. Letterform was just a hack, until people worked out how to communicate more perceptually.” Comparisons with Guttenberg’s 15th-century printing press and its revolutionary effect are popular with heads of technology firms who clearly hope to have as big an impact. And it is possible that some of today’s biggest tech firms may initiate a new age of enlightenment; it is equally likely they will implode after a few years and be replaced by the next cool thing. This is Systrom’s challenge, to stay on the right side of that equation.***The rapid growth of Instagram and its popularity with everyone from designers to photojournalists and politicians is one of Silicon Valley’s favourite fables. Its followers include President Obama (advocating Obamacare), David Beckham (berating the Daily Mail for criticising his parenting skills) and Kim Kardashian (trying to break the internet). It makes room for the mundane:plumberssharing their latest jobs,teacherssharing the delight and horror of the classroom. It featuresbad taxidermyand horrific autopsy shots. It hosts millions of us, snapping our holidays, our children, our shopping and a disproportionate number of sunsets.Only 18 months after founding the company, with just 13 employees serving 30 million users, Systrom and co-founderMike Kriegerfound themselves caught in a bidding war between Twitter and Facebook.Mark Zuckerberg’s persistence and deep pockets won out, with a deal eventually worth (after a dip in Facebook’s share price) $736.5m.It’s very hard to succeed without giving your entire life to this thing“It was a lot of luck, a lot of opportunity and a lot of hard work,” Systrom says now of the deal and the months that led up to it. “Weekends didn’t exist. Mike and I set up an alarm on our phones if the servers were overloaded and went down, and that went off every four or five hours. Then as we grew, it went off every hour, or every 15 minutes. To this day, I have a Pavlovian response to that alarm: simultaneous nausea and anxiety. But it was also a sign of growth, which is a great problem to have. Now it’s different problems: what do we work on, what’s our strategy, how do we fend off competitors?”Why does he think this punishing work culture appeals to so many? “When you’re small, it’s very hard to succeed without giving your entire life to this thing. The technology moves so fast and the context – your competition – changes so quickly that the one advantage you have as a small company is speed. You can pack three to four working days into one day and gain an advantage.”Silicon Valley is known for being pressurised, highly competitive and stuffed with ambitious people who push themselves – and sometimes fail to admit they are struggling to cope.Research published in April, byDr Michael Freemanat the University of California in San Francisco, found 49% of the entrepreneurs he surveyed reported a mental health condition; 30% felt depressed (theUS average is 8%) and 27% had anxiety concerns. Suicides of company founders have cast a shadow over the industry, including 22-year-old Ilya Zhitomirskiy ofDiaspora, 47-year-old Ecomom co-founderJody Shermanand, in May this year, 31-year-old Austen Heinz of Cambrian Genomics.Systrom’s favourite accounts include @petesouza, the White House’s official photographer, who posted this shotBut overwork seems a world away from Instagram, whose staff seem content in their secure and rapidly growing company. I am taken on a tour by the publicist, admittedly, but their delight appears genuine (“It’s my dream job!”). Does Systrom feel a duty of care towards his (often very young) team? “People don’t work in a dotcom because they have to,” he says. “There are many professions that don’t require that sort of time. But people sign up because they want to make world-changing differences, to build something that affects millions of people. These are the companies that in just a couple of years can change entire industries.” Systrom says Instagram conducts anonymous surveys to check the health of its staff, and is respectful of weekends and families. “You don’t win a marathon by sprinting all day,” he says, not sounding as heartfelt as when talking about his ambition to change the world.Related:The melancholy streets of Baku, Azerbaijan's ever-changing capital – in picturesLater, I talk to Ashley Yuki, a product manager who oversaw the recent introduction of portrait and landscape formats to the service. (Instagram’s square format photos are a legacy of Systrom using a Holga camera while studying photography in Florence, Italy, for one term of his Stanford degree; the switch was big news in Instagram world.) Yuki coordinates designers, engineers, marketing and every other team to get new features out on time. Does she feel Silicon Valley has a long-hours problem? “We are measured on the impact of our work – the number of people who use it, the feedback from users, the results of what we did – not how many hours we’ve worked. That lends itself to a more meritocratic culture. My schedule is flexible and I have lots of control. We work hard and I like that, so it’s a burden and a joy to be the person who can fit all those pieces together.”***Kevin Systrom was born in the wealthy Massachusetts suburb of Holliston, to a human resources executive father and a marketing executive mother, who worked at Monster and Swapit during the first dotcom boom. AtMiddlesex boarding schoolin Concord, he started to learn programming. Later, at Stanford, studying management science and engineering, he interned at Odeo, the company that went on to found Twitter. Systrom sat next toJack Dorsey, but that didn’t help Dorsey during negotiations to buy Instagram, which Systrom and Krieger sold to Facebook for nearly twice Twitter’s offer. Dorsey hasn’t posted to Instagram since.Systrom’s life outside work is as carefully curated as his Instagram feed: he’s into fine food, golf, skiing and holidays at California’s Lake Tahoe. His favourite Instagrammers are@symmetrybreakfast(exactly that),@everydayafrica, a group of photographers publishing shots from across the continent, and@petesouza, the White House’s official photographer. (He insists he’s been to few fashion shows, despite being photographed on the front row withAlexa Chung, and at awards ceremonies withDiane von FurstenbergandKim Kardashian.) He is adept at redirecting unwelcome questions: when I ask if he has any political allegiances, and joke that he might have an opinion onDonald Trump, a strategic user of Instagram, he simply says he’s not political. No, he hasn’t met Trump; the other presidential candidates campaign just as effectively through his service, too.With Kim Kardashian at the CFDA fashion awards in June.Photograph: Getty ImagesInstagram’s new “search and explore” feature, rolled out in June for American users only, now highlights collections of Instagram accounts – extreme sports, for example, travel or fashion. It is designed to surface more diverse content, and show what’s trending now. Is this editorialising? Systrom resists the word, while claiming Instagram has rivalled his experience of television news, most powerfully when users posted hundreds of pictures of the devastation wrought byHurricane Sandy, in near real time, in October 2012.Instagram began with 25,000 users, on its first day; now, thanks in part to the Facebook deal, it has 400 million people using the site every month, with 80 million photos shared every day. Systrom says this growth is largely down to Facebook’s considerable resources when it comes to sales advertising, their targeting and relevance algorithms, which he claims are helping Instagram mature more quickly than its rivals. (Research companyeMarketersuggests Instagram will reach $600m in ad revenue this year, but that this will grow to $2.81bn in 2017; remarkably, Instagram is also predicted to have bigger net mobile display ad revenues than Twitter and Google by then, having introduced more innovative formats.)While it’s hard to see how Systrom could have turned down Facebook – an offer so big, it astonished many in the tech industry at the time – what would have become of Instagram if it hadn’t signed up? “A lot of great things have happened,” Systrom says. “There are fun parts of running a startup and not-so-fun parts, and Facebook handles the not-so-fun parts, like infrastructure, spam, sales. The real questions are, how big can Instagram get? Is it 400 million, or bigger? Can it be a viable business if it is that big? These are at the top of the list for everyone in Silicon Valley.”How big can Instagram get? Is it 400 million, or bigger?These are no doubt the kind of questions he puts to Zuckerberg when they meet on campus. The Facebook founder pursued him aggressively in 2012, then, after making the offer, retired to watchGame Of Throneswhile Systrom made frantic calls to lawyers and investors. The pair meet weekly, inside and outside of work, and by all accounts have much in common, with Zuckerberg savvy enough to give Systrom the space he needs.Being under the care of Facebook is a constant reminder of how much bigger Instagram could be. “At Facebook [which has 1.5 billion users every month], we’re the little kid on the block. If you ask someone on the street in India if they use Instagram, they will say no – so that’s an opportunity for us.” This is what Silicon Valley’s investors love to hear: unapologetic ambitions for global growth, no holds barred.It’s not just Systrom who is making money from the site. Many Instagrammers claim to be earning a significant income, including Sharmadean Reid of@wahnails, Dutch fishmongerBart van Olphen,who has used its 15-second videos to build his cookery brand, and New Yorker Liz Eswein,@NewYorkCity, who has 1.2 million followers and claims to charge advertisers $1 for every “like” on a sponsored photo. The money starts coming in when you have more than 100,000 followers, which can be worth upwards of £3,000 a month, according to professional InstagrammerBrian DiFeo, who founded an agency advising others on how to exploit the service.Seventy-five per cent of users are outside the US, 14 million of them in the UK. I suggest to Systrom that this is photo sharing on a massive scale; he disagrees. “Calling Instagram a photo-sharing app is like calling a newspaper a letter-sharing book, or a Mozart grand era symphony a series of notes. Instagram is less about the medium and more about the network. If you’re a business, we have a product so you can buy ads. If you’re a consumer and want to entertain, you can record a 15-second looping video. If you’re an artist and want to do a piece of conceptual art, there’s a place for you, too. ‘Photo sharing’ misses the nuance.”***What makes one picture better than the other? An understanding of light is what separates a great photographer from a mediocre one, saysRichard Koci Hernandez, assistant professor of new media at UC Berkeley’s journalism school in San Francisco. “Humans are conditioned to see strong shapes and patterns, and it’s light, combined with capturing that human moment, that can stop people in their tracks .” Hernandez was one of the first news photographers to document Silicon Valley’s smartphone era and has been using Instagram since it launched. Yet late last year he deleted more than 1,100 photos from his Instagram account because they were making him feel trapped, he says. A year on, he wants to do the same thing again with the 70 images he has published since – monochrome lone figures, an atmospheric city, snatched moments of real life.Double shot latte: London’s @symmetrybreakfast, another of Systrom’s three favourite accounts“My images are a reflection of me as a photographer, so is that me? We are all influenced by likes and comments in a social space, and I have thousands of images and tons of followers.” And he does: 235,000 of them. “That was influencing who I was, and I was thinking too much about what I was posting. We are all trying to find our voice and find what is authentic, but the comments push you in a certain direction that is less objective.” Hernandez says he would like his images to live momentarily, which is exactly the appeal of Instagram’s biggest rival,Snapchat, estimated to have 200 million users, many of them younger than Instagram’s. “That backlog starts to define you,” Hernandez says, “but I think we’re always different and evolving. I’d like my images to live a couple of days and then die, so I don’t have to remember or be tied.”Hernandez is sanguine about the popularity of selfies and pictures of latte foam; he sees Instagram as a collective experiment in visual communication. “That’s what humanity does when we get together – we want everyone to look at us. It’s the game we’re all playing. Expecting anything more from a medium in its infancy is too much to ask. I believe in the power of latte foam. Communication has to be homogenous at the start; after that, the creativity and nuance creeps in, and artists move the medium to the edges.” Maybe so, but evenAi Weiweiuses Instagram for selfies.Systrom gives short shrift to the suggestion that his service has been overrun by hipsters and narcissists uploading pictures of their coffee. “With so many people, it’s hard to have uniformity or predictability. There are performance artists, sports stars, celebrities, people singing and doingDubsmashesand, yes, hipsters use Instagram. But last year we had activistKatie Meylerdocumenting ebola on the ground, raising awareness of the epidemic in a way no one else could. We had stunning photos of the Baltimore riots, the winter storm Juno, that made the cover of the New York Times. These are not hipster shots of lattes.”Why did Instagram succeed where other, similar services failed? There was a swath of photo-filter apps available in 2010 and most fell by the wayside. Systrom puts a large part of his success down to luck; I’d also put it down to a combination of simple design, improved smartphone cameras and an appetite for a broader network based on visual images. The service has grown thoughtfully, even cautiously, so that it remains accessible. But it will need to work hard to compete against the excitement and spontaneity of Snapchat, the speed and simplicity of text messaging, and photography fatigue (the more pictures we take, the less we seem to value them). Other challenges lie beyond the horizon, where the biggest threat might now be no more than a sketch in someone’s notebook.So where does Instagram go from here? I ask Systrom to imagine the most fantastical feature he could add. “Imagine a world where virtual reality exists and is ubiquitous, and we have whatever device we need to experience it. How cool would it be if you were at a concert in the countryside and I could be there with you – hearing, smelling, seeing it, too? Or the presidential inauguration – that would be amazing. That’s what Instagram is now, in a very low-fidelity way. I like to say we’re working on time travel, but the difference is we’re not sending you there – it’s coming to you.”An Instagram post of the Juno storm, New York, January 2015.Photograph: @junowinterstormTop of Systrom’s priorities right now is his wedding to college sweetheart Schuetz next summer. It will be a local affair, and combine good food and wine. He has read somewhere that English weddings are traditionally in the morning so he wants to do that (in California, this counts as eccentric). I tell him it means everyone just gets more drunk in the afternoon, because there’s nothing else to do before the party, and an eyebrow crumples; he is trying to work out if this is good or bad. More importantly, will the wedding be on Instagram? “I don’t think we could get away withnotputting it on Instagram,” he concedes. “But I don’t think it will trend.”Whatever comes next, Systrom is made for life. He is a model of what success currently looks like in Silicon Valley – young, white and male, with all the confidence, opportunity and connections that an expensive education can provide. Five years in and Instagram has joined the elite group of technology firms now shaping our world, albeit from a very particular perspective. I’m struck by the disparity between Instagram, the cool, sleek world it inhabits on and offline, and the real world outside. We see, we share, but what then?It is hometime at Facebook as I leave the building and a fleet of pristine luxury buses arrives to ferry everyone back to San Francisco. I cross the nine lanes of freeway again and pay my $2.10 to catch the bus back over the Bay. It is a beautiful, hazy evening and for a second I think I might Instagram it. But I put my phone back in my bag, rest my head on the window and my eyes catch sight of a seal bobbing up from the water instead.
On September 13, 2001, four US Senators from both sides of the aisle introduced the first version of the USA Patriot Act, a sweeping, 342-page bill that overturned virtually all US privacy laws and led to the creation of the global, pervasive surveillance programs that Edward Snowden disclosed in June 2013.It’s possible that four senators and their respective staffers wrote the Patriot Act in a mere 36 hours, while America went into a panic over the worst terrorist attacks in US history. It seems a lot more likely, though, that the Patriot Act was already sitting in someone’s desk-drawer, waiting to be tabled when a suitable disaster occurred.The conspiracy-minded point to Patriot’s swift introduction as evidence that 9/11 was an inside job, and that Patriot was just part of the plan. I think this is pretty implausible, and not merely because I don’t think that the parties involved would be depraved enough as to commit those atrocities, nor smart enough to get away with it.A much more plausible explanation is that these surveillance-minded authoritarian political operators predicted that eventually something would happen, something big and terrible and eye-catching, and that this would create an opportunity to ram through their agenda. It was opportunism, not mass-murder. It’s not far-fetched: just last week,a leaked email from the General Counsel of the US Office of the Director of National Intelligencerevealed that America’s spooks had decided to withdraw their calls for a ban on cryptography, but planned to reintroduce them after the next terrorist disaster had put Americans in a receptive frame of mind.The goal of using disasters to seize power is terrible, but the tactic of thinking through the political possibilities of future events is fundamentally sound.There will be terrorist attacks in the future – rare, overblown, and showy, but they’ll occur, because all you need to make a showy terrorist attack is a couple of idiots with bad ideas, and there’s a bottomless supply of both. Doubtless, there are authoritarians writing sequels to the Patriot Act to produce when the next atrocity strikes.If the odd future terrorist attack is likely, then grotesque, cataclysmic privacy breaches are sure bets. The big breaches of the past year like Ashley Madison and the Office of Personnel Management, were so noteworthy that they crowded out the drumbeat of unimaginably terrible credit-card breaches at the likes of Hilton and Walmart and Target and literally dozens of other major companies.What does this mean for privacy advocates? Since the internet’s inception, electronic privacy advocates have tried (mostly in vain) to convince people that they need to take online privacy seriously. From now on, we’ll get the hardest part of our job done for us, for free, by criminals and big, stupid companies and incompetent regulators.Why did we suck at convincing people to care about privacy? Maybe because it was impossible. Humans are really bad at training their intuition to correctly assess propositions whose cause and effect are separated by vast expanses of time and space. The privacy disclosure you make today might never bite you in the ass, or it might come back to haunt you in ten years. When it does, you won’t be able to recall the thought process that you went through when you gave out that data today, and you won’t be able to learn any real lessons that will help you get better at disclosure tomorrow.But now the privacy breaches and their consequences are coming in fast and furious. Ashley Madison and OPM were tremors, not quakes. There are bigger, scarier databases with more info on more people, and they aren’t any better (or worse) protected than any of the ruptured databases we’ve seen this year. The only way to be sure you don’t leak data is to not collect or retain it, and Big Data’s hype and the cheapness of hard drives has turned every pipsqueak tech company into a Big Data packrat with a mountain of potentially toxic personal info on millions of people, all protected by a password that’s simple enough for a CEO to remember it.Every week or two, from now on, will see new privacy disasters, each worse than the last. Every week or two, from now on, will see millions of people who suddenly wish there was more they could do to protect their privacy.For privacy advocates in 2015, the job is clear: have a plan in your drawer. A plan: how to safeguard your privacy, how to understand your privacy, how to understand the breach. A plan that explains that your lack of security isn’t a fact of nature, it’s the result of conscious decisions made by people who were either hostile or indifferent to your wellbeing, who saved or made money through those decisions. A plan that shows you what you can do to keep you and yours safe - and whose head your should be demanding on a pike.We should still be advocating for better practices, businesses, technology and rules for privacy, but our job will be made simpler with an army of supporters. That army is ready to enlist, too, even if they don’t know it.Yet.
More than 1bn Android smartphones and devices are vulnerable to a new security vulnerability dubbed Stagefright 2.0, warn security experts.The follow-up tothe Stagefright bug, which allowed hackers to take over an Android smartphone by sending it an MMS message, Stagefright 2.0 is security vulnerability made of two holes in Android that can allow an attacker to take over a smartphone via an MP3 or MP4 video.Mark James, security specialist at ESET said: “Visiting a website and previewing an infected song or video file could enable the attacker to gain access to your mobile device and run remote code, in theory allowing them full access to your device enabling them to do whatever they wish ... including installing other malware, or just harvesting your data for use in identity theft.”The vulnerability affects even those smartphones that have had the original Stagefright bug patched, such as Google’s Nexus devices and Samsung’s Galaxy S6 series.“The first vulnerability (in libutils) impacts almost every Android device since version 1.0 released in 2008. We found methods to trigger that vulnerability in devices running version 5.0 and up using the second vulnerability (in libstagefright),”said Zimperium, the company that first disclosed the original Stagefright bug.The security holes lie within the media processing systems of Android, which can be broken, potentially allowing access to the the rest of the smartphone using specially crafted MP3 audio files or MP4 videos – both common formats for songs and videos.“The first version of Stagefright required some information, namely your mobile number to be able to send the text message to your device,” says James. This new version does not even need to know any of your information to be successful. This, in theory, enables a much wider audience and indeed could enable access to over 1bn android devices.”Rated as criticalGoogle was notified of the bugs on 15 August. The companyacknowledged the security holes, saying“this issue is rated as a critical severity due to the possibility of remote code execution as the privileged mediaserver service. The mediaserver service has access to audio and video streams as well as access to privileges that third party apps cannot normally access.”The bugs are due to be patched in Google’s monthly security update for October for its Nexus smartphones. Patches for other smartphones will be at the discretion of their manufacturers and the mobile phone providers. Google provided the fixes to manufacturers on 10 September.Google, LG, Samsung and others havepledged to roll out monthly security updatesfor the smartphones in the wake of the original Stagefright bug.Security company Symantec notes that therehave been no reportsof Stagefright 2.0 being exploited in the wild but that “until a patch is applied, proceed cautiously when using your mobile browser to preview unsolicited audio and video files”.“You absolutely have to think before visiting websites, all too often people fail to understand their mobile devices are just as much at risk as their desktops,” said James.Android lockscreen can be bypassed by overloading with massive passwordGoogle’s Android under antitrust investigation by FTC
The iPhone 6S Plus promises richer interactions with a pressure sensitive screen, a better camera with new “Live Photos” and longer battery life, despite it having a smaller capacity battery. Does it deliver?In the tick, tock upgrade cycle, the iPhone 6S Plus is Apple’s phablet tock. It’s a speed bump on the design of last year’s iPhone 6 Plus with a few new features thrown in to try and entice buyers.Spot the differenceThe iPhone 6 Plus in dark grey on the left, the iPhone 6S Plus in gold on the right.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSide-by-side it’s almost impossible to tell the difference between 2014’s iPhone 6 Plus and the new iPhone 6S Plus – unless you havea rose gold one that is.There’s a small “S” stamped on the back, the device is 0.2mm thicker and 20g heavier, but everything else on the outside looks the same.The extra weight and thickness is noticeable compared to both the older iPhone and its competitors. At 7.3mm thick and 192g heavy, it is thicker and heavier than Samsung’s 6.9mm thick,153g Galaxy S6 Edge+and heavier thanGoogle’s new 7.3mm thick, 178g Nexus 6P.The iPhone 6S Plus feels nice to touch, but is more difficult to hold than competitors due to its relatively thick bezels. They make the phablet wider and taller than competitors with the same size, or even bigger, screens.Apple has usedharder aluminium for the iPhone 6S Plus’s shellthan on its previous model, and while I can’t attest to its durability – I’ve only had the iPhone a week and it is undamaged – it is a little less slippery than the 6 Plus.The 5.5in 1080p screen, despite being pressure sensitive (more on that later), looks identical to the iPhone 6 Plus. The LCD display is colour accurate, but not quite as vibrant as some AMOLED rivals. It has a pixel density of 401 pixels per inch (ppi) making it similar in sharpness to phablets suchas the OnePlus 2.The5.7in screens of Samsung’sandGoogle’s new phabletsboth have much higher pixel densities of 518ppi, whileLG’s 5.5in G4 screenhas 538ppi. The difference in screen density is visible side-by-side at screen sizes 5.5in and up – text appears sharper – but most users will be satisfied with the crispness of the iPhone 6S Plus’s screen.SpecificationsScreen:5.5in 1080p (401ppi)Processor:dual-core Apple A9RAM:2GB of RAMStorage:16/64/128GB; no SD cardOperating system:iOS 9Camera:12MP rear camera with OIS, 5MP front-facing cameraConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi, NFC, Bluetooth 4.2 and GPSDimensions:158.2 x 77.9 x 7.3 mmWeight:192gAs snappy as an iPhone can beThe iPhone 6S Plus lasts about 25 hours between charges, but can die before you get home on a night out.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe iPhone 6S Plus has Apple’s new dual-core A9 processor with an integrated motion co-processor and 2GB of RAM. Apple says that it is 70% faster than the A8 in last year’s iPhones.Performance is as snappy as any iPhone can be, although still feels sluggish compared toSamsung’s Galaxy S6because of Apple’s use of fixed-speed animations moving into and out of apps and other actions.The increased speed over the 6 Plus was only noticeable when loading or switching between large apps or games, or when accessing the Siri suggest featuresnew to iOS 9. As yet, there aren’t many apps written to take advantage of the extra performance, but some games are coming with better graphics for A9-equipped phones.The phone generally stays cool, but it got noticeably warm while in congested situations in London, where the mobile phone network is oversubscribed.Call quality was excellent, as wasWi-Fi calling, which worked as advertised on EE’s network and could also be shared with other Apple devices such as iPads and Macs.I found battery life has managed to get both better and worse, as standby time has improved over the iPhone 6 Plus, but the battery drains slightly faster with the screen on while browsing, for instance.The iPhone 6S Plus lasted 25 hours on average with hundreds of emails and push notifications, three hours of browsing, several hours of music playback via Bluetooth headphones, a couple of pictures and light spot of gaming. You will need to charge it once a day and occasionally it won’t last until bedtime.That’s about the same as the iPhone 6 Plus and worse than most other competing phablets. I found the low battery mode made little impact on the remaining battery life when it hit 20%, but the milage may vary depending on how you use it. A full charge took about an hour.iOS 9Apple makes a few small additions to iOS 9 for its phablet, such as the homescreen having a landscape orientation and a two-panel mail view showing the inbox and an open email.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe iPhone 6S Plus runs iOS 9, which is available on the iPhone 4S and all newer Apple phones. The OS is slightly more responsive on the 6S Plus in some places, including Siri suggest, but there are very few features exclusive to the new iPhones.Siri can listen out for the hotwords “Hey, Siri” and wake up the phone. This feature was available on other iPhones only when plugged in. You need a quiet environment to set it up, and even then it struggled to learn my voice, requiring repeated mutterings of the pre-defined phrases to get it locked in.For more information seethe iOS 9 review.3D TouchPush harder on an icon and if it has been updated it will pop up a small menu. Not all of Apple’s apps support 3D touch, but the list of third-party apps that do is growing rapidly.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianApple’s new pressure sensitive screen is the marquee feature for the iPhone 6S Plus. It allows more gestures based on how hard you press the screen.Apple’s peek and pop gestures allow you to preview an email without opening it by pressing slightly harder, or enter the email fully by releasing that increased pressure and doing it again. A similar thing can be done with messages, images, links in Safari, contacts in the phone app and so on.Most of the time it just shows you what you would see if you tapped the email, link or message normally. It’s meant to be quicker than popping in and out of messages, but the only time I found it useful was previewing days in the month view of the calendar app.Icons on the homescreen can also be 3D touched to pop up a quick action menu. Mostly this means actions such as start a new message, search or view the last action. Tapping then takes you straight into the compose screen of Mail or Messages.Third-party apps can also implement it. I only found Evernote, which allows you to launch straight into the camera to create a photo note, to usefully implement the feature.More apps will come, and 3D Touch might become a killer feature, but for now it’s a novelty that quickly gets old and has a relatively annoying learning curve as you stab the screen to see what works and how hard you have to press.Touch IDiPhone 6S Plus review touch idPhotograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe iPhone 6S Plus has a new Touch ID sensor, which is much faster than that on the iPhone 6 or 5S, unlocking the phone almost immediately. It’s one of the fastest and best fingerprint scanners on the market,rivalling Huawei’s very fast scanner.I found it was as accurate as the iPhone 6 Plus, recognising my thumb almost every time.Taptic EngineThe excellent vibration system that feels like someone is tapping you on the wrist onthe Apple Watchhas been added to the iPhone. It works very well in the hand, giving much sharper more defined haptic feedback. It’s also quieter when on a desk, but I found it wasn’t strong enough in my pocket. I missed texts and emails as the alert was over in an instant.You can change the vibration pattern to something a bit more aggressive like those used for phone calls, which helped, but then it didn’t feel as good in the hand. Swings and roundabouts.CameraiPhone 6S Plus review - cameraPhotograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe new 12-megapixel camera is excellent and is one of the best on the market, with similar picture quality toSamsung’s Galaxy S6andLG’s G4.It captures images with good detail and colour balance in good light, often resulting in slightly more natural, if a but muted, photos. Low light performance is also good, but neither are a vast improvement over the iPhone 6 Plus.Video capture is good and the camera can record in 4K taking up around 300MB per minute, roughly three times the space required for 1080p video. The switch to enable 4K video is buried in the settings menu so most will probably never try it.The front-facing camera has been boosted to five megapixels from 1.2MP, but the photos are still not exactly fantastic. They will do fine for small shots, but are not a patch on those captured by the rear camera. The flash screen feature works OK for close-ups, but forget anything at arms length or further away.A Live Photo of the development of Battersea power station in London.Apple’s Live Photos are new for the iPhone 6S Plus. They capture 1. 5 seconds of video before and after taking a photo and are very similar toHTC’s Zoe feature from 2013.They are an interesting novelty, which work OK for portraits but will likely not be used much by most. They take up twice the storage on the phone and are difficult to share or upload beyond Apple’s walled garden, much like HTC’s Zoe. They can be used as wallpaper on the phone, but only animate when pressed on.I also found that it could slow down the speed of the shutter, meaning I missed a couple of photo moments and more often than not caught video of the subject moving out of frame or the camera going down.PriceThe iPhone 6S Plus costs £619 for 16GB of storage, £699 for 64GB and £789 for 128GB in silver, dark grey, gold and pink.Phablet competitors such as theSamsung Galaxy S6 Edge+ costs£600 for 32GB of storage and the LG G4 costs £325 for 32GB.No one should buy the 16GB storage versionas it is just not enough space for today’s apps, music, photos and video, particularly if shot in 4K or taking Live Photos.VerdictiPhone 6S Plus review cornerPhotograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe iPhone 6S Plus is the best phablet Apple has ever made, but only just. It is not a significant upgrade over last year’s 6 Plus, with most of its new features take it or leave it affairs.It is also not the best phablet available, but most prospective buyers will be upgrading from an existing iPhone andso are unlikely to considerthe Android competition.The new Touch ID fingerprint scanner is significantly faster. The pressure-sensitive screen is interesting on paper, but in practice has no killer application. The Live Photos are a novelty, but difficult to share and may prove to be something tested then just left off.Users upgrading from an iPhone 5S or older iPhone are in for a treat, however, as the phone is better in almost every way.Pros:fast fingerprint scanner, good camera, good screen, Taptic Engine, extended standby timeCons:battery life of only a day, expensive, heavier, big bezels around the screen make it more difficult to holdOther reviewsSamsung Galaxy S6 Edge+ review: the curvy ‘iPhone 6 Plus killer’LG G4 review: one of the best phablets available, boasting an impressive cameraGoogle Nexus 6 review: big is beautiful, but not manageableOnePlus 2 review: a real ‘flagship phablet killer’?
It’s a garment that might attract a second glance – made as it is of an unusual array of 3D printed quills. But beware, the scrutiny is mutual. Designed by LA-based artist and architectBehnaz Farahiand on show at the Artists in Residence exhibition, Pier 9, Autodesk in San Francisco next month, this stylish top, titled Caress of the Gaze, is “conscious” – the cropped tunic has a concealed eye-tracking camera that allows the garment to respond physically to a passing stare.The ‘conscious’ cropped tunic reacts to a gaze.Farahi’s intention, she tellsTech Monthly, is to create garments that are “an extension of our own skin”, looking to nature’s clothing – skin, scales and feathers – for inspiration, taking note of the “different porosities, different densities, and different behaviours” of the constituent parts.Back view of Caress of the Gaze.The design has an organic appearance, almost mimicking the feathered breast of a bird. But the quills are housed in a semi-flexible mesh laced with “muscle wire” that, much like our muscles, contracts and relaxes in unison to create the movement in the garment, all of which is computed from the gaze of the onlooker, captured by the camera.The hidden camera in the garmet.The camera can also detect gender and, less accurately, age – parameters which, Farahi reveals might, be incorporated into future designs. But she is also keen to explore how tech-laden clothing can translate both external and internal social pressures. “Technology will enhance our bodily function and give us a power that our body doesn’t have,” she says.
If you’re hoping Amazon will send the nextGeorge R R Martinnovel to you by drone, you may have even longer to wait than you thought: the FAA estimates it will be three years before it has a framework for drone operators to fly the machines without direct human oversight.At a conference for commercial drone operators in Las Vegas on Wednesday morning, the US Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) told the drone industry itsnew rules for droneswill be given to the White House by the end of the year, including some more relaxed policies for corporate drone users.At present anyone flying a commercial drone is only allowed to operate it if he can see it. For oil and gas companies, railroads, and even the forest service, relaxing the “line of sight” rules is atop priority. Each of them wants the ability to see where a rail is broken, how much oil has spilled, or the size of the forest fire as soon as possible, rather than send a human being into a potentially dangerous (or expensive) situation.“There’s been a really unprecedented demand we’ve seen from all of you and it’s been super exciting and kind of scary for us,” said the FAA drone oversight office’s special rules coordinator, Robert Pappas, at a Wednesday morning keynote at the first annual Commercial Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) conference. “That demand really forced us to think differently.”Pappas directs a series of FAA safety experiments with industry collaborators called Pathfinder projects. The timeline for Pathfinder projects varies between two and three years, but the most important to many of the oil and gas executives at the conference is the regulator’s requirement that drones operate within view of the pilot at all times. One, with CNN, explores the way drone cameras are used in journalism, and another, with tech company PrecisionHawk, is developing an air-traffic control software for drones called Latas.Pappas, charged with integrating unmanned aerial vehicles into the FAA’s policies, said the executive branch’s Office of Management and Budget should have the rules by year’s end, including an easing of the restriction that every commercial drone operator have a pilot’s license. But he said that the third Pathfinder project, a partnership with rail shipping company BNSF, had a timeline of “36 months”.Pappas said the desire from BNSF and companies like it to operate across tens of thousands of miles of trackwork was understandable. “Clearly, operating within visual line of sight over 32,000 miles is a difficult thing,” he said.The FAA has expanded dramatically over the past year to cope with demand from industry; more senior staff positions have been added and there is greater emphasis on quicker rule-making.But it’s also dealing more harshly with scofflaws: the FAA recommended a record $1.9m fine for aerial photography company SkyPam, which the regulator said operated its drones without government authorization for nearly two years and didn’t respond to subpoenas. The company eventually got authorization to operate, but it didn’t get immunity from allegedly flouting the law.Many at the conference consider easing of regulation inevitable; indeed, drone manufacturers like Kespry are preparing systems that can be set in motion and left alone to take off, gather data and return every day at the same time.The rules slated for next year would ease some restrictions: Drones weighing less than 55 pounds wouldn’t require a pilot’s license to fly commercially, for example – the operators would instead have to pass a written proficiency test (experts at the conference said that might change to include hands-on training, as well).With respect to other industry demands, Pappas was frank: “We’re trying to find a way to authorize these kinds of operations,” he said. “It may not be the best way, it may not be a cost-effective way, but it’s tremendously important because it identifies the bottleneck, whether they’re cost bottlenecks or resource bottlenecks or regulatory bottlenecks.”
Waterstones is to stop selling the Kindle e-reader in most of its stores in what industry bosses have said could become a watershed moment in the battle between physical and digital books.James Daunt, the managing director of Waterstones,told the Guardian he has removed Kindlesfrom most of the books chain’s 280 stores because they were “getting virtually no sales”.Daunt said the Kindle was now in “well, well under a third” ofWaterstonesstores and the space has instead been turned over to paperback and hardback books.After a decade in the doldrums for physical book sales – which took Waterstones to the brink of collapse – the move highlights the changing shape of the publishing market as sales of hardbacks and paperbacks enjoy a widespread resurgence.Book sales chartSales of physical books in Britain rose 3% in the first half of 2015, compared to the same period last year – the first increase since 2012 – while sales of digital books went up 2%. However, the rise in digital sales was driven by schools and English language teaching, with consumer sales down 2%, according to figures from the Publishers Association trade body.Richard Mollet, the chief executive of the Publishers Association, said the departure of the Kindle from Waterstones stores could become a symbolic move. “Lets see what happens with sales of both [physical and digital], but in the future people may look back and say: that was the moment the market began to stabilise.“For bookshops, it is particularly heartening. Publishers are keen for a place on the high street so books can be a discovery.”Physical book sales are particularly resilient in non-fiction, where the popularity of cookbooks and reference titles means just 10% of sales are digital books. This compares to 37% for fiction.“These sort of titles really are at their best when in the physical form,” Mollet said of non-fiction books. “They are also beautiful titles to have around the house.”Independent bookshops are also enjoying a revival after a tough period since the financial crisis.Sheryl Shurville, who owns Chorleywood Bookshop in Hertfordshire, said her customers include children and young adults, who are supposedly at the forefront of the digital revolution. She said: “We do lots of events with schools and children love the real book, they really do.Related:Kindle turns five: independent women thrive in ebook bestseller charts“Even 20 and 30-year-olds like the physical book. I think a lot of people do a lot of work on screen, so for pleasure they want to read the physical book. It is still a treasured item. People look back with fondness and with associated memories at their books.”Bookshops are preparing for a busy week, with around 1,800 stores marking the start of the Christmas season with an in-storeevent called Books Are My Bag.The vital Christmas period begins with so-called Super Thursday this week, when roughly twice as many hardbacks are published than in the average week. The key books this year include titles from Bill Bryson, Chris Evans and Pharrell Williams.Consumer analysts said digital books have not offered enough benefits to counter the allure of hardbacks and paperbacks.Andre Breedt, a director at Nielsen Book Research, said: “Physical book sales have been much more resilient than some people expected, particularly due to an incorrect comparison with physical music sales.“The physical nature of books has appealed for centuries and is fundamental to their allure. Digital versions have some advantages but, due to their single function, not enough to significantly overturn this.”According to a study by Nielsen, 75% of children favour physical books and 35% refuse to read digital titles.The Waterstones boss said a key reasonbehind the recovery in physical saleswas an improvement in the quality of bookshops since the recession. Waterstones has installed cafes and allows store managers to tailor the books each branch sells to the local community.Daunt said: “A major factor for Waterstones is that our stores are better. We were effectively bankrupt four years ago. When you face oblivion, it forces you to look at what you are doing and to do it a lot better.“It is immensely reassuring for us that this turnaround has happened. Most of our bookshops are a much happier and vibrant place to be at the moment.”However, despite removing the Kindle from all Waterstones stores apart from those in metropolitan areas, Daunt admitted that ebooks would continue to have a place in the market.Related:Amazon set to pay self-published authors as little as $0.006 per page read“I think it works beautifully for some specific things. “If you are elderly or hard of sight, you can change the font. It also helps if your bookshelves are full, and books can be heavy to carry.”Philip Jones, the editor of trade magazine The Bookseller, said ebooks should not be written off and a decline in sales of the Kindle was not necessarily linked to the popularity of physical books. “I don’t think you should confuse sales of e-readers with ebooks,” he said.“I think what we are seeing is an acknowledgement that e-readers don’t follow the same pattern of obsolescence as tablets. That has an effect on long-term sales trends. There is also a transition from e-readers to mobile and tablets. For Christmas, you are more likely to want a tablet than an e-reader.”Amazon, which manufactures the Kindle, insisted it was happy with sales. A spokesman said: “We are pleased with the positive momentum and growing distribution of Kindle, and Fire tablet sales – our devices are now available in over 2,500 retail locations across the UK, including Argos, Tesco, Dixons, John Lewis and recent additions like Sainsbury’s, Boots and Shop Direct. Our UK, US and worldwide Kindle book sales are growing in 2015.”
A team of British technology firms has developed a “death ray” for drones that can knock an unmanned aerial vehicle out of the sky by turning it off in midair up to a mile away.“If I can see it, I can kill it,” said Rick Sondag, executive vice-president of Liteye Systems, which sells the device, at the Commercial Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) Expo in Las Vegas this week.Interest in drone-killers has grown as unmanned aerial vehicles have taken off. Their uses might be readily apparent to people who’ve seen hobbyist drone fliers buzzing too close to their property lines, but there are law enforcement and governmental applications too.In July,a drone dropped heroin, marijuana and tobacco into a prison recreation yard. The following monthanother contraband delivery droneallegedly on its way to a prison was nabbed by cops before it got off the ground in Maryland. In the second case, local law enforcement said it wasn’t the first time they’d dealt with the problem.There’s also the matter of airport safety and the ongoing trouble with curious drone photographers trying to get pictures of natural disasters, especially where fire department helicopters are trying to unload payloads of water or airlift out stranded victims. At the expo, the parks service had an entire booth devoted to handing out posters and leaflets with slogans such as “If You Fly, We Can’t”.Liteye’s Anti-UAV Defense System (Auds) is a set of beige boxes atop two square posts, and looks like a particularly menacing pair of weathervanes. The drone-destroying vane has a long cylinder that sticks out like a rifle barrel and two smaller cylinders on one side.The Anti–UAV Defence System.Photograph: PRThe cylinders are a set of directional radio antennas that works like a gun. The radio spectrum allotted to drone users is fairly narrow, so a brief, focussed broadcast is enough to bring down a targeted drone without affecting “friendly” UAVs or anyone’s cellphone reception for long.Liteye, based in Colorado, was named distributor in the US and Canada for the device earlier this year by its three manufacturers: Enterprise, Chess Systems and Blighter, which are all based in the UK. Liteye is trying to sell to airports and “the homeland security market”, according toBlighter.It’s not the first anti-drone device to appear this year. Boeing debuted a giant laser gun last month, touting its ability to knock out drones from safe distances.“If you were on the receiving end of laser energy, you would have no idea where it was coming from or what was happening,” explained Boeing engineer Isaac Neal in the company’spromo video.Sondag is hopeful that his radio gun could help fend off tighter regulation of the burgeoning drone industry. “The US government, like everyone else, has critical infrastructure and if they don’t feel like they can protect it, they’ll pass laws that will hamper progress and hamper current use,” Sondag said.
Google has denied claims that its operating system for in-car entertainment, Android Auto, spies on users.The report,from Motor Trend magazine, said that Porsche had chosen not to use Android Auto in its newest cars, instead opting for Apple Carplay over privacy fears.In an overview of 2017’s iteration of the Porsche 911, Motor Trend’s Jonny Lieberman wrote: “as part of the agreement an automaker would have to enter with Google” to include Android Auto.“Certain pieces of data must be collected and mailed back to Mountain View, California. Stuff like vehicle speed, throttle position, coolant and oil temperature, engine revs – basically Google wants a complete OBD2 [on-board diagnostics] dump whenever someone activates Android Auto.“Apple, by way of stark contrast, only wants to know if the car is moving while Apple Play is in use.”However, Google has disputed the report, specifically denying the claims that it collected “throttle position, oil temperature, and coolant temperature”.In a statement, the company said: “We take privacy very seriously and do not collect the data the Motor Trend article claims such as throttle position, oil temp, and coolant temp. Users opt in to share information with Android Auto that improves their experience, so the system can be hands-free when in drive and provide more accurate navigation through the car’s GPS.” That opt-in is similar to the method used by Android phones, letting users choose the data sharing they are comfortable with when they set up their car.
On 21 September, Tesla’s chief executive and founder, Elon Musk, used all the tricks in his showman’s book tolaunch the company’s latest all-electric vehicle, theModel X, at the company’s San Francisco Bay headquarters.Tesla’s mission, he said, is to “accelerate the advent of sustainable transport”, hoping that the new SUV will help the company appeal to a wider audience of American motorists. But with a $130,000 price tag for the fully loaded version (and a base price of about $80,000), the Model X could end up having an awkward relationship with sustainability.Americans bought 529,817 SUVs and crossovers in September – a 30% increase over September 2014 – so building an electric vehicle (EV) to fit the un-electrified large crossover segment seemed to make good sense for Tesla. But even beyond its unique status as an EV, the Model X is not a typical crossover. It’s probably the world’s first mass-produced EV crossover, but it’s much too expensive to be anyone’s idea of a mass market vehicle.Related:Tesla Model X: Elon Musk launches first all-electric SUVFrom technological and design standpoints, the vehicle is impressive, so its enthusiastic reception among the motoring press makes plenty of sense. The third vehicle to appear in Tesla’s social media-burnished 12-year history, the Model X enters the automaker’s lineup alongside the sleek Model S sedan. Together, the two luxury EVs represent the best that moneyed environmental do-gooders (or those who want to appear as such) can buy. They are the physical manifestation of their creator’s bold view of the future – vehicles for a world where fossil fuels no longer matter.“For many people who have a lot of money, buying a Tesla is as much buying into Elon’s vision as it is about the product,” Brett Smith, an analyst with the Center for Automotive Research, said in an interview. “You become part of something great.”In addition to its good looks, the Model X comes with a host of semi-autonomous features. Among them are emergency automatic braking Tesla says will even work at high speed, an automatic steering function the automaker says will monitor lane lines to keep the vehicle in its lane without driver input, and automatic parking. A suite of radar and sonar sensors and a forward-facing camera make the technology possible, and Tesla says periodic software updates will automatically upload improvements to the systems over the airwaves.Then there are thefalcon doors, a Back to the Future fantasy come true in a car that can haul more that just two radiation-suited plutonium thieves. The rear doors, often a design problem from an ingress-egress perspective in four-door, three-row vehicles, fold up and toward the center of the vehicle. Sensors keep them from banging into things. Single support seats swivel out of the way for passengers bound for the third row, improving accessibility over conventional setups. Plus, the doors look cool.As with the Model S, there’s a “Ludicrous” version of the Model X. While the standard Model X will go from zero to 60 miles per hour in 3.8 seconds, a Ludicrous upgrade on the performance model nudges that elapsed time down to 3.2 seconds as the vehicle rockets to a top speed of 155mph. The front and rear wheels are driven by separate motors – a 259-horsepower unit up front and a 503-horsepower one in the rear – and Tesla says they crank out a combined 713 pound feet of torque.All that twisting force gives the Model X a 5,000-pound towing capacity, a capability similar to many pickup trucks. Tipping the scales at 5,441lbs, the Model X is about as heavy or heavier than most full-size pickup trucks, too. For comparison, the 2016 Chevrolet Corvette Z06, one of the fastest sports cars on the road, boasts a 650-horsepower supercharged gasoline V8 engine that produces 650 pound feet of torque and will carry the 3,500-pound car from zero to 60mph in 3 seconds.In keeping with Tesla’s reputation for building cars the well-heeled will appreciate, the Model X is imbued with a number of luxurious touches. Intuitive doors open automatically for the driver, and the infotainment stack features a massive 17-inch display screen. The little road noise allowed to enter the cabin will be moot against the Model X’s 17-speaker stereo system. Interior air is purified for the Tesla elite, with a Hepa filter system that ducts air in through the vehicle’s front fascia.If all that sounds unattainable for most people, it absolutely is.“The Model X expands Tesla’s product portfolio, but at $130,000, it’s a very niche product,” Smith said, adding that the automaker’s real challenge would be in making the jump to producing and selling a mass market model. “It will still be a huge challenge for Tesla to make a profit at such low volume with so much invested in development. Until they get some real volume to spread out all of that development cost, it’s tough to think of it as a profitable company.”Akshay Anand, an analyst at Kelley Blue Book, said that the Model X could spur other automakers to build electric crossovers, and could even boost overall EV sales. But he agreed with Smith that the Model X, while impressive, won’t have the impact that a real mass market vehicle could have.“The EV SUV segment is something that needs to happen,” he said. “We’ve seen EV sales dip. In addition to range anxiety, there have also been only sedans and compacts on the market.”Tesla Motors has two notably huge promises to fulfill: the mass market-oriented Model 3 and the Gigafactory – a large battery production facility. Musk said last month that the Model 3 would be unveiled next spring, with production to begin in 2017. The Gigafactory is under construction in the Nevada desert and isn’t expected to be operational before next year.“With the Gigafactory, there’s a lot of uncertainty as to what it’s going to do for Tesla,” Smith said. “If it gets them higher scale, that’s important, but I’m not sure that it will get them a truly cost-competitive battery.”As Tesla works on the Model 3, its competitors are also busy. At the Detroit auto show in January, General Motorsintroduced the Bolt, an electric compact it said would drive 200 miles on a charge, at a price point closer to $30,000 after alternative energy tax rebates. Nissan has also promised an improved version of its Leaf EV, one at last capable of triple-digit range. GM has also beefed up the Chevrolet Volt, a gas-electric hybrid that compromises on pure electric driving to bring the technology within reach of a wider array of potential customers. With 53 miles of pure electric driving range, it can also travel more than 350 miles on a gas-powered generator – much farther than any of the more expensive Tesla models can go.Only time will tell if Tesla is able to live up to its grand promises, but for the time being, Smith said he thinks Musk has been more or less on target with other goals. Bearing that in mind, there’s a good chance the automaker could hit its broader production goals, too.“It’s a whole new game when you’re going from a $130,000 car to a $30,000 one,” he said. “Tesla needs to go from niche producer to mass market producer, and that’s certainly a challenge.”For now, the Model X tickles America’s crossover fancy, if at a distance for most car shoppers. As fuel prices increase, truck, SUV and large crossover sales are likely to fall and hybrid and EV sales to rise. With the stars aligned in such a way, a mass market car from Tesla could help the company prove that it truly is a game changer.• This story was amended on 9 October 2015 to clarify the price of the Tesla Model X base and fully loaded versions, and to correct the electric driving range of the Chevrolet Volt.
For the first time since it introduced its own ad-blocking support, Apple has approved an app which allows users to block adverts inside mobile apps – even the company’s own ad-supported Apple News.The app, named Been Choice, is only available on the US app store, where it arrived on Tuesday. It uses the new ad-blocking features included in the latest version of Apple’s mobile operating system to let users block adverts in the Safari web browser, similar to other adblockers such as Crystal or Purity.But where Been Choice differs from those apps is its addition of a second mode, which allows users to block ads in apps as well as the mobile browser. That mode works by funnelling all the phone’s web traffic through a virtual private network (VPN) run by Been themselves, which then strips out the adverts before they arrive at the user’s phone.Technologically, the feature uses a tool included in iOS to let businesses ensure their employees only connect to their networks in a secure manner.It is unclear whether Apple even knew the feature was included in Been Choice when it approved the app. The company has not replied to a request for comment, but the Guardian understands from developer testimony that the app-store approval process is frequently minimal. Been Choice mentions that it can block adverts in-app in the text of its iTunes store page, but includes no screenshots showing the functionality directly.When a similar app, Adblock Plus, attempted to block ads in-app on Android,Google removed it from the storesaying that it “interferes with or accesses another service or product in an unauthorised manner”. Other apps which work in the same way as Been Choice have also been on the Apple App Store for some time, however: one,Adbl0ck Mobilehas been on the store since November 2014.Related:Apple removes adblockers that work on Facebook and other third-party appsBoth apps trade one problem for another, however. While they successfully strip adverts from most sites and apps, in doing so they require the user to funnel all their net traffic through the developer’s servers. For some users, that may be a step too far in terms of trust, although Been’s co-founder, Dave Yoon, promised that the company wouldn’t store any of the intercepted information:“While we inspect headers and the body, no user content is stored, and our filtering is done on the fly,”he told TechCrunch. “This approach may be more familiar in its corporate form. For example, companies use deep packet inspection on their managed devices to ensure that sensitive information never leaves internal corporate networks.”•This piece was updated to clarify that Been Choice was not the first app to use VPNs to block adverts.
For most of us, how we perceive the internet is significantly shaped by the language used to describe it: say “web” and dew-dropped silk comes to mind, “net” and woven knots of string, “information superhighway” and bright cars racing in the dark.These names describe a system of disparate machines, giving shape to the network. Which name we choose has a large effect on how we perceive the structures that carry all our photos and emails and bank balances and work and subscriptions and love letters and affairs and charity donations.With the shift in the infrastructure as all this information became stored remotely came a shift in language, and of perception. Now so central to our lives, how did the language of the internet, and the cloud, evolve?What is ‘the cloud’?The symbols on our screens are things we can manipulate in the real world: cogs, pulleys, files, magnifying glasses, binoculars, waste paper bins, compasses, calendars. These pictures use pre-digital imagery as a way to represent invisible processes. “You may not be able to see what is really happening inside this box,” they tell us. “But it is in your control.”When computers first spread in use, these symbols made it easier for technology companies to communicate what our machines were doing. Many of these symbols are still used today. A quick glance over the screen of my laptop takes in cameras, stamps and interlaced gears. The original objects may be gone – my work is tucked into files with no filing cabinet in sight – but the symbols remain like hieroglyphics.If the tendency up to now has been to ground computer-based interactions in the language of industry, the symbolism of the cloud goes in the opposite direction. A semantic shift is occurring, away from tactile objects towards boundless ether. “You may not be able to see what is really happening inside your rectangle,” the cloud tells us. “But it doesn’t matter. It doesn’t even happen in there any more. It happens in something you cannot hope to grip.”The irony, of course, is that you can grip it. The cloud is not an invisible layer of data. It is a network of clumpy buildings packed full of servers. Cloud computing involves using a network of remote computers to process and store data instead of a single machine, but it is still a physical process. Facebook doesn’t store its vast stockpile of photos in air. It stores it in enormous data centres in North Carolina, Oregon and Sweden. Google has data centres in remote Finland, Oregon and Iowa to name a few. Where is your data? It could be in any one of these locations, and is most likely in several of them.Privacy in the etherAs a term, the cloud has been around since at least 1996, when Compaq Computer engineers published a paper on the benefits of investing in what they referred to as “cloud computing-enabled applications”. One year later, Steve Jobstalkedabout moving storage from local machines to shared servers. Fast forward to 2011 and Google introduced the Chromebook – a laptop with the majority of data and applications living on the cloud. By the time we get to the present day, Dropbox, Google Drive, iCloud and OneDrive all offer remote storage solutions. As less data is stored on hard drives, our private lives increasingly centre on the cloud.As a name, the cloud is at once a fluffy, approachable means to digest a global network of servers. It is also a vague, formless entity that grows and shrinks above our heads. In terms of privacy, it represents an important change in how we think about our data; stored in the arms of an invisible force, at once everywhere and nowhere.Laurence Scott, author of The Four-Dimensional Human, tells me: “To me the most striking thing about the semantics of the cloud is how the amorphousness it promises is in direct opposition to the commercial and political agendas at play within it.“The last thing corporations or governments who are mining our data would want is for us to manifest online as ethereal creatures: our personal data is prized for the vivid, defined portraits it produces of us, as consumers and, perhaps secondly, citizens.”Scott’s book investigates the ways the digital world is rewiring our thoughts and perceptions. He writes about the way social media encourages us to engage “in a 24/7 news cycle of the self”, and that this perpetual broadcasting of dinners, bus trips, dates and museum visits leads us to approach situations in terms of social currency. He tells me, for example, about a student of his who looked up at Westminster Abbey and called it “grammable”.As Scott suggests, there is an opposition between the supposed ethereality of the cloud and the indexed information held by its owners. The name leads us to believe our data is stored in a sublime, liminal dimension. In reality, that data is living in servers under the control of Amazon, Google, Facebook and so on. Our “grammable” images are subject to their privacy agreements, their security systems, and we therefore hand over our information with the trust that it won’t leak or be shared against our wishes. But the semantics of the cloud make it a much easier pill to swallow, encouraging us not to worry about who or what actually has control of our data.This isn’t to say that those companies have shady intentions in mind, but the symbol they use is nevertheless a mirage. If icons on the internet have previously aimed at elucidating a vast network of integrated machines and processes, the cloud signals a movement towards incomprehensibility. “You can touch your screen as much as you like,” it says, “but what happens away from that is out of your hands.“Don’t worry. You wouldn’t understand it anyway.”
Social network LinkedIn has agreed to pay $13m to users to settle a class-action lawsuit accusing it of sending too many unsolicited emails to users.The lawsuit took issue with LinkedIn’s “add connections” feature, which lets users import their personal contacts into the social network (the source of the infamous subject line “I’d like to add you to my professional network on LinkedIn”).If a user didn’t reply to those emails, LinkedIn followed them up with two further ones again inviting them to join the site.But while the emails are annoying for the recipients, it’s actually the “senders” – the users in whose name the emails were sent – who led the lawsuit. The grounds for complaint were twofold: while those users may have given permission for the initial invitation to be sent out, they didn’t give explicit consent for the following two messages or for their name and image to be used in them.The suit complains that: “Despite the appearance of the endorsement emails, the users do not compose the message, they do not consent to LinkedIn sending multiple messages on their behalf, and they are not compensated for the use of their name or likeness in the advertising or promotion of LinkedIn.”The $13m settlement is filtering down to LinkedIn users in the US as a result of the class-action, and on Monday the site notified eligible users that they could have a claim (the notifications, naturally, were sent by email). The amount users will receive has not yet been set,according to an open letter from the lawyers leading the class-action suit, but could be as low as $10 – or even lower. However, “if the number of approved claims results in a payment amount of less than $10 [per person], LinkedIn will pay an additional amount up to $750,000 into the fund”, the lawyers add.The “add connections” feature is one of the most infamous features of LinkedIn. The statement “I’d like to add you to my professional network” has become a recognised, and widely mocked, phrase. In September,New York-based designer Frank Chimero realisedthat the line works as a universal punchline to New Yorker-style editorial cartoons.pic.twitter.com/9r6KdvoKPL&mdash; Frank Chimero (@frank_chimero)September 22, 2015@frank_chimeropic.twitter.com/5IoRsoZGGb&mdash; Frank Chimero (@frank_chimero)September 22, 2015pic.twitter.com/L2KQhUd8vf&mdash; Frank Chimero (@frank_chimero)September 22, 2015In a statement, LinkedIn said that the lawsuit made “a number of false allegations”, but that it had decided to settle anyway. “Based on its review of LinkedIn’s product, thecourt agreedthat these allegations were false and found that LinkedIn’s members gave permission to share their email contacts with LinkedIn and to send invitations to connect on LinkedIn. Because the court also suggested that we could be more clear about the fact that we send reminder emails about pending invitations from LinkedIn members, we have made changes to our product and Privacy Policy.“Ultimately, we decided to resolve this case so that we can put our focus where it matters most: finding additional ways to improve our members’ experiences on LinkedIn. In doing so, we will continue to be guided by our core value – putting our Members First.”
It’s Wednesday!
Ireland has said it plans to investigate the transfer of data on Facebook users in Europe to the United States after an EU court invalidated the “safe harbour” provisions under which it took place.It follows a request by Austrian citizen Max Schrems to the Irish data protection commissioner to investigate if there was adequate protection of his data transferred to the US by Facebook, which has its European headquarters in Dublin.Related:What is 'safe harbour' and why did the EUCJ just declare it invalid?In a landmark ruling on Tuesday the European court of justice struck down the “safe harbour” arrangements with the US amid concerns it gives American intelligence agencies access to European citizens’ data.“The judgement has clarified that it is now for the data protection commissioner to revisit Mr Schrems’s complaint and carry out the necessary investigations,” said Dara Murphy, the Irish data protection minister.Meanwhile, the Irish data protection commissioner Helen Dixon has instructed her legal team “to take whatever actions are necessary to bring the case back as soon as practicable before the Irish high court”.It is likely the commissioner will then launch a full investigation into Schrems’s complaints.Schrems went to the high court in Ireland after the commissioner refused to investigate his concerns on the grounds the “safe harbour” system, which allowed tech companies to send personal data to the US, was overseen by the European commission.The case judge subsequently referred the case to the European court of justice which ultimately struck down “safe harbour”.Dixon said: “The issues dealt with in the judgment are complex.“In declaring the old “sSafe Harbour” rules invalid, however, the significance of the judgment extends far beyond the case presently pending in Ireland.”Murphy said there was now an opportunity “to set robust global standards for the protection of personal data”.“The legitimate and safe use of personal data, and indeed the need for data transfer must always be balanced with strong standards for the protection for personal data,” Murphy said.With Agence France-Presse
Microsoft is bringing “the thunder”. That was the message sent to its competitors today, when Microsoft unveiled its Windows 10 devices, including the new Surface Pro 4 and Surface Book, challenging Apple’s dominance at the top end of the laptop market.“We have competitors, you might have noticed. They are chasing us,” Panos Panay, head of engineering of all Microsoft devices, said during the hour-and-a-half-long presentation. “What do you do? Do you double down and bring the thunder or do you reinvent the category again?”It seems that the company chose to do both and did not shy from making comparisons with rival Apple, a company whose glitzy presentations have in the past left Microsoft looking stale.Microsoft introduces it’s latest technology.Surface BookAccording to Panay, compared to MacBook Pro, Surface Book is twice as fast. In his demo of the device, he transferred 3GB of data in just four seconds by using a Surface connection – eliciting a number of “whoas” from the audience. The demo came with its own dig at Apple – a number of which were sprinkled throughout the presentation – an image of a toaster-fridge hybrid.@maryjofoley,@alex,@thurrott,@tomwarrenhope you enjoy the show today…pay attention – some new things might pop uppic.twitter.com/yHbgfLNyfN&mdash; Terry Myerson (@tmyerson)October 6, 2015The image was a clear reference to Apple CEO Tim Cook’s comments about tablet-laptops like Surface. “You can converge a toaster and a refrigerator, but those things are probably not gonna be pleasing to the user,” Cook said in 2012.Surface Book is the first Microsoft laptop. It comes with a 6th gen Intel Core i5 or i7 processor and up to 1TB of storage.It is “the most powerful laptop on the planet”, according to Panay. However, it’s not just a laptop. The 13.5in touchscreen is detachable and works with the Surface Pro 4 dock. The device was designed for everyone – from gamers to architects to scientists to coders, he said.Surface Book.“I have been using it and it just blows me away. The typing experience on this product is perfect,” said Panay. The laptop comes with a precision glass trackpad that comes with five points of touch, which Panay said “feels so lovely”. “We know what comfort is. We brought it all to the table.”If there is one thing that will impress potential customers, it will be the battery life, which does not drain when the device is closed.Surface Book, which will officially launch on 26 October and costs $1,499, will be available for pre-orders on 7 October.HoloLensAt the very beginning of the presentation, Microsoft demonstrated the latest skills of HoloLens, its mixed reality gaming system. HoloLens creates holograms that you can hold and that move as you move your hand– making them into basically wearable holograms.HoloLens is expected to launch sometime during the first quarter of 2016, with a price tag of $3,000.Microsoft Band 2.Photograph: MicrosoftBandNot exactly a rival to the AppleWatch, the Microsoft Band 2 is geared more toward the health-conscious consumers.The band is designed to be a “big part of your health story”, said Lindsey Matese, senior communications manager for Microsoft Band and Health. It was designed for golfers, cyclists, runners and “gym rats”. Users will be able to track exercise, calorie intake and sleep. The band also tracks elevation.Band, which costs $249, is available for pre-orders and will officially launch on 30 October.LumiaThe Surface Pro 4 and Surface Book may have stolen the spotlight on Tuesday, but it’s the Lumia phones that could really help Microsoft break into a new market given that Microsoft has just 3% of the global mobile phone market.As expected, the company announced the Lumia 950 with 5.2in display and Lumia 950XL with 5.7in display. Each comes with a 20 megapixel camera and a flash technology that, according to Panay, will get rid of red-eye and make you look like a human and not a ghost.The phones come with USB-C connector chargers, which provide fast charging: 50% charge in less than 30 minutes. Both phones can run universal Windows 10 apps, including Office, Edge, OneDrive and Cortana.Microsoft hopes that the new phones will appeal to business users.“This is supposed to be the most productive phone you’ve ever picked up,” said Panay.The main demo for the phones consisted of turning them into mini-computers by plugging one into a display deck, which basically transformed it into a desktop.Both phones will be available in November, Lumia 950 for $549 and Lumia 950 XL for $649.Microsoft’s Surface Book.Photograph: MicrosoftSurface Pro 4“This is the thinnest and most powerful core PC ever to ship,” said Panay. The display is 12.3 inches and is capable of displaying more than five million pixels.Surface Pro 4 comes with a fingerprint sensor, new pen, a quieter key board and bigger glass trackpad. It’s 8.4mm thick and the only reason it’s not thinner, according to Panay, is because of the USB ports.Surface Pro 4 is 30% faster than the Pro 3 and 50% faster than a Macbook Air, according to Microsoft.As with other products, preorders start on 7 October, with the official launch on 26 October. Surface Pro 4 starts at $899.PenAfter Apple introduceda pencilfor its iPod Pro, Microsoft rolled out a new surface pen. It comes in multiple colors and with interchangeable tips for different pen types – drawing, sketching, writing, etc. The pen, which comes with Surface Pro 4, slides into the surface for easy storage and has a year-long battery life and an eraser.“We put an eraser on the pen,” said Pansay. “It’s kind of funny, there’s a pencil out there without an eraser.”
The Atlantic Ocean just got a little wider. The European Court of Justice’s latest ruling has determined that the US “does not afford an adequate level of protection of personal data”.The case brought against Facebook over the potential for US government snooping on European citizens’ data, throws the differences in internet culture into stark relief. But those differences have been growing for some time.Until Tuesday, it had been US companies – principally Google and Facebook – that had been driving the wedge in. In 2012 GoogleenragedEuropean privacy regulators by declaring that it would unite data from its different services,mashing different privacy agreements into one. (The row is still going on.)Then in 2014 the European Court of Justice declared that Google, as a “data processor” was covered by the data protection principles, and so must remove links about people from its search index that were “outdated, incorrect or irrelevant” (though with exceptions for public figures). Google has implemented the so-called “right to be forgotten” more or less, but the ruling infuriated many in the US.Facebook has set data protection authorities from around Europe on edge. An investigation followed the Dutch data protection authority asking Facebook to delay rollout of its new privacy policy, while the Belgian data protection authority recently took the social network to court over its use of cookies and tracking.Now the ECJ has ruled again, and once more highlighted the gulf in attitudes either side of the pond. “Safe harbour” ostensibly means that a European citizen’s personal data being processed by a US company on US-based computers is under the same protections as if it were still in Europe on a European-owned system. But the ECJ says it doesn’t protect that data from US government snooping – and so cannot be allowed.The problem with safe harbour is that the US government now treats any data on computers of US-owned companies anywhere in the world as fair game for examination. Microsoft, in fact, isvigorously appealinga court case won (in the US) by the US government, which asserts that it has the right to access data held in one of the company’s Irish data centres. Safe harbour applied, in theory, to US companies but not to the US government; now the edifice has come crashing down.To privacy activists, the surprise is that it has taken so long: “Safe harbour was flawed in principle and flawed in practice,” said Joe McNamee, executive director of European Digital Rights, a pressure group for digital civil rights drawn from 19 European countries. “After last year’s data retention ruling, this is the second time in two years that the Court of Justice has struck down an instrument that the European Commission had spent years defending.” (The first was therejection of the Data Retention directive, which had been favoured particularly by the UK government.)The fallout could be dramatic. In August 2013, soon after Edward Snowden’s revelations about the NSA’s indiscriminate gathering of data from US companies, US technology businesses began fretting. If Europeans, and European businesses, thought that they couldn’t trust the US to look after their information, they could lose huge amounts of business –estimated thenat between $21.5bn and $35bn through to next year.The US-based Cloud Security Alliance, which represented companies there offering file storage and internet-based computing, thought it could lose between 10% and 20% of its market to rivals. It was already seeing contracts being lost to European rivals who could promise Europe-based processing. Things are probably going to get worse for them.Jim Killock, executive director of the Open Rights Group, commented: “In the face of the Snowden revelations, it is clear that safe harbour is not worth the paper its written on. We need a new agreement that will protect EU citizens from mass surveillance by the NSA.”The ruling hasn’t been a surprise; it was foreshadowed last month by a summary ruling which was confirmed on Tuesday, but its progress to the ECJ has been slow, in theory giving any affected company time to adjust. Thus the larger companies – Google, Facebook, Apple, Microsoft, Twitter – are well-placed to deal with the fallout.Those who will lose out are the smaller companies, and startups that had been planning to use something like Amazon’s AWS cloud services. The nature of cloud systems is that data is transferred promiscuously, both to create resilience and speed up access elsewhere. One possible solution is to encrypt the data using keys which remain on servers in Europe; that will carry performance penalties, but might satisfy the letter of the law.In the longer term, the bigger problem will be the gap that is opening between the US and Europe. Privacy policies with teeth, the “right to be forgotten”, the desire to keep data inside Europe - all are at odds with the US’s treatment of data, which is more cavalier. That has helped the US to leap ahead in its development of systems, but also seen a swelling tide of resentment in the US at the burgeoning amount of individuals’ data collected and traded, and sometimes stolen. Will Europe act as the example for the US to follow? History suggests not – which means the cultural gap is going to get wider.
All the new story content for the next year of Destiny, Bungie’s first new franchise since it launched Halo in 2001, will be free, as the company continues with a major overhaul of the multiplayer online game following its troubled first year.To make up for the lost revenue from giving away the content for free, Bungie has announced plans to introduce microtransactions to the game for the first time, letting users spend real money to buy cosmetic items such as character gestures and visual changes to their “Sparrow” hover bike in game.Microtransactions are often viewed with suspicion by players, and Bungie seems keen to emphasise that the purchases, from the in-game Eververse Trading Company, will have no effect on the broader game. “If you’re not interested in what [the in-game vendor] has to offer, you won’t ever be forced to pluck an item off of her shelf,”the developers wrote. “You’ll still receive updates to the game, and you won’t lose a Crucible encounter or fail to clear a Raid because you didn’t have the right Eververse Trading Company emote equipped.”The revenue model established throughout the first year was a major release, followed by two smaller minor releases, andleaked slidessuggested that the initial plan was to continue that model into year two. Instead, the company seems to have decided that the minor releases – which retailed for £20 each in the UK, and were widely criticised for being overpriced given the content contained within – are best delivered in bits and pieces, free of charge.Bungie says the microtransaction revenue will fund those expansions: “Our plan is to use these new items to bolster the service provided by our live team for another full year, as they grow and create more robust and engaging events that we’ll announce later this year. It has been, and continues to be, our goal to deliver updates to the game. Going forward, our live team is also looking to grow beyond vital updates and improvements to focus on world events, experiences, and feature requests.”In doing so, the change takes Destiny closer to the model of World of Warcraft, the ground-breaking massively multiplayer online game which entered its second decade last year. Warcraft offers major new content in paid-for expansion packs, and then drops smaller “content patches” periodically, which progress the story of the game world. Unlike Destiny, however, Warcraft still charges a monthly subscription fee for players – although that fee can be paid using in-game currencies.
Twitter has launched Moments, a new service which hopes to show users the day’s most popular stories, as the 140-character social network takes a stab at news curation.The new button in the middle of the app marked by a lightning bolt brings users a curated, magazine-style view filled with comments, images and videos pulled from users on the ground and news organisations’ Twitter feeds.The Moments tab shows stories curated by a small editorial team based at Twitter in New York. The tab is divided into sections including “today” and news, sports and entertainment.It forms part of Twitter’s attempts to make its service more appealing for novice users or those that have used Twitter and then left, feeling a lack of engagement.Madhu Muthukumar, Twitter’sproduct manager for Moments, said: “We know finding these only-on-Twitter moments can be a challenge, especially if you haven’t followed certain accounts. But it doesn’t have to be.“Moments helps you find the best of Twitter as easily as tapping an icon – regardless of who you follow.”The new feature is being rolled out to US users across Twitter’s Android, iOS and web apps right now, although users outside of the US can view them if sent a link. Twitter plans to roll the localised feature out to Europe at a later date.Moments are created around topics or events. Twitter’s chief financial officer,Anthony Noto,tweeted some examples, including a Moment reviewing theSeattle Seahawks victory over the Detroit Lions last night, which pulled in videos and photos from before, during and after the game from teams, players, fans and sports commentators.Twitter Moment celebrating the Seahawks win.Each moment is led with a small summary of the news, written by Twitter.Moments can be shared or embedded, and while they are currently being generated by Twitter itself, the plan is to have media companies generate their own and allow Twitter to curate them.Twitter is initially partnering with the Bleacher Report, BuzzFeed, Entertainment Weekly, Fox News, Getty Images, Mashable, Major League Baseball, Nasa, the New York Times, Vogue and the Washington Post.With Twitter having confirmed founderJack Dorsey as chief executiveon Monday, after turmoil following Dick Costolo’s stepping down, Moments is Twitter’s attempt to show users and Wall Street that it can continue to innovate and attract new users.Jack’s back: 11 things the new Twitter CEO needs to improveJack Dorsey confirmed as Twitter CEO
The room went quiet, as if everyone had just held their breath. Sergey Brin, Google’s co-founder, had just walked in wearing Crocs. I think it was the fact it was billionaire Brin, rather than the Crocs. Brin has the loosest of schedules and works on whatever takes his fancy. This morning it was self-driving cars. Regularly deferring to his engineers for the detail, Brin was there to emphasise how important and impressive the technology is, as if we needed reminding.I asked Brin how he planned to humanise the technology, how to take it beyond Google’s privileged and pro-technology bubble into a real world where citizens are more sceptical and less trusting. He looked disappointed with the question.“I’d explain to them the benefits. Our mothers might be having a hard time driving and still want to get around. It’s important to have that mobility, so I’d just explain it’s an affordable way to get from here to there that is safe,” he said, and quickly moved on to more comfortable questions about the American love affair with the automobile. If something as brilliant as Google is asking you to put your life in the hands of its software, then just do it and stop asking stupid questions about human beings.Related:Self-driving cars: from 2020 you will become a permanent backseat driverThe car oozed to a halt in front of me. I opened the oversized door, put my bag on the floor and took a seat next to my fellow journalist, Dave. The inside had more floorspace than most London toilets, and a big storage bucket where the steering wheel and dashboard weren’t. Instead we had a small screen showing our route, a few buttons to open the windows and a large red panic button. “No photos or video, and please don’t remove your seatbelts,” our chaperone instructed. That sounded ominous, but we trusted she hadn’t programmed a route on this rooftop test circuit to dispose of two tiresome British journalists.Google’s prototype self-driving electric cars, of which the company had 50 built in Detroit, have been driving on the streets of Mountain View, California, since June. Designed, I suspect, to look as unintimidating and benign as possible, the cars verge on cutesy, in softly rounded white plastic with large headlamp eyes and big windows. But Toytown they are not, with a sophisticated triage of 360-degree lasers, radar and cameras that scan its surroundings as it drives, creating a complex 3D image of its environment up to three football fields away.Analysing that environment, it identifies and categorises vehicles, cyclists, pedestrians, traffic signals and the road network, calculating movement and response according to its knowledge of road rules and applying a conservative driving style. Road safety statistics inform that driving style; most accidents at intersections happen in the first second after the lights turn green, so the car waits one second before pulling away.The strongest case for self-driving cars is safety, its logical, programmed movement also means vehicles can be centrally controlled, rerouting traffic away from congestion. Since the project started in 2009, Google has driven most of its 1.2m hours of tests in a small fleet of customised Lexus autonomous cars. As of July this year, there had been 14 accidents but all had been caused by human error, not by the software. Around 33,000 people die in traffic accidents in the US every year; Google says self-driving cars will reduce that number significantly. The opportunities are, indisputably, immense.The hard sell for Google will be winning over generations of people who feel safer being in control of their vehicle, don’t know or care enough about the technology, or who simply enjoy driving. Yet most people who try a demo say the same thing: how quickly the self-driving car feels normal, and safe. As the head of public policy quipped, “perhaps we just need to do demos for 7 billion people”. Google’s systems engineer Jaime Waydo helped put self-driving cars on Mars while she worked at Nasa; it may well be that regulation and public policy prove easier there than on Earth.If Google is asking you to put your life in its hands, just do it and stop asking stupid questions about human beingsAnd before it can get to the public, Google has to get through the regulators. In taking on the auto industry, Google has some mighty pitched battles ahead, not least the radical changes it implies for the insurance industry (who will find the number of accident claims dropping sharply), car makers (who will become partners with Google to equip their autonomous cars) and the labour issues of laying off a whole class of drivers, from cabs to haulage. But Google has already pre-empted the scrutiny of regulators, inventing a new parent company called Alphabet that will allow its specialist businesses to be built more independently. And Google is already thethird biggest lobbyist in the US, spending $10m in the first half of 2015 alone.There’s no reason why Brin himself should have the answer on how to take his company’s technology to the masses. Our expectations are defined by the myth of the founder, and we like to buy into the idea that these be-Crocced geniuses have some all-knowing power, where in fact they were privileged, smart and got lucky. But that is increasingly the biggest challenge for technology firms, in not only being able to explore and exploit the opportunity of technology using their significant resources and brainpower, but in knowing how to win the confidence of citizens. Would you feel safe in a self-driving car?
Reddit hasannounced its move into news publishing(along with everyone else) with the launch of standalone site, Upvoted. The new site intends to capitalise on the popular content posted toReddit, which is often picked up by other online media organisations.Upvoted will be headed by former MySpace editorial directorVickie Chang, in charge of a team of around 10. Initially, the site hopes to produce around 20 stories a day, increasing to 40 later.Despite its name, Upvoted will also not permit the rating of content (up or down-voting) – a cornerstone of how the native community operates and how posts reach a wider audience, with the holy grail to land onReddit’s front page(self-styled “the front page of the internet”).Nor will Upvoted allow comments. Reddit, as we know, is all about comments, and the community has often been in trouble for a certain element of hostile and abusive contributions to threads.A look at the new Upvoted site, Reddit’s attempt at a standalone news presence.Photograph: Reddit/WIRED.comReddit is hoping that by aggregating the most popular user-generated content into stories on its own site it can wrestle back control from traditional media organisations, which frequently lift from Reddit boards for quick stories – sometimes without credit or sourcing. The content lifted often brings in a lot of traffic – and advertising revenue - to other organisations.Speaking toWIRED.com, which is owned by Condé Nast, whose parent company Atlantic Publications has majority shares in Reddit, Chang said Upvoted would publish written pieces, stories, videos, infographics, podcasts and illustrations, covering “news, sports,animalsand lifestyle issues”.Our users’ stories need to be toldVickie ChangAll stories will link back to Reddit, crediting the original source of the material. A dedicated subreddit, r/upvoted, will be established to house the content chosen for Upvoted and allows users to comment on Reddit itself.“Everything will have a direct tie back to Reddit,” Chang said. A statement from Reddit to WIRED also addressed the issue of other news organisations profiting from Reddit’s content:“The stuff our community creates on a daily basis blows our mind. Unfortunately, rather than telling that story, some news outlets take our users’ content and repackage it as their own.“They don’t tell the backstory of our communities. We think our users’ stories need to be told, but with them at the centre of it.”Upvoted.com will aggregate content from Reddit, linking back to the community.Photograph: Reddit/WIRED.comIt’s hoped that Upvoted might prove a source of profit for Reddit, whose reputation for controversial and sometimes distasteful content dissuades advertisers and has even lead to splits within the company.Moderators revolted after the firing of AMA (ask me anything) head Victoria Taylor. Soon after, interim chief executiveEllen Pao resigned, after calling out the “ugly” content which made her “doubt humanity” on some Reddit threads and facing misogynistic and racist abuse.Upvoted will not host banner adverts but will run sponsored content, or so-called native advertising approved by brands.“They’re going to be just as interesting as actual content,” Chang said of the branded content. “It could be a piece on Tesla, a piece on how Wifi works, no matter what it’ll be good content – and it’ll just happened to be sponsored.”Upvoted.com is slated to launch later on Tuesday, (the site is not yet live with the domain directing to a Wordpress holding page) – but the Guardian was told by one contributor that the project has been kept heavily under wraps. The Guardian has contacted Reddit for comment.•How Ellen Pao lost her job but survived Reddit’s swamp of trolls
TheEuropean Court of Justice has ruledthat the “safe harbour” agreement that allowed the transfer of European citizens data to the US is no longer valid. But what does that mean for the Facebooks, Googles and Microsofts of this world?In a two-year-old case forced to the EU’s highest court by Austrian privacy campaigner Max Schrems, the EUCJ ruled that the European Commission’s trans-Atlantic data protection agreement that went into force in 2000 was invalid because it does not adequately protect consumers in the wake of the Snowden revelations.What was the ‘safe harbour’ agreement?EU privacy law forbids the movement of its citizens’ data outside of the EU, unless it is transferred to a location which is deemed to have “adequate” privacy protections in line with those of the EU.The safe harbour agreement that was made between the EC and the US government essentially promised to protect EU citizens’ data if transferred by American companies to the US.It allowed companies such as Facebook to self-certify that they would protect EU citizens’ data when transferred and stored within US data centres.Patrick Van Eecke, co-head of the global privacy practice DLA Piper said: “The advantage of safe harbour was that it functioned as a kind of ‘one stop shop’ allowing for the export of personal data to the US, whoever in Europe it came from, without the need to ask for consent, or to enter into bilateral agreements, over and over again.”Can data still be transferred to the US?Now that the 2000 agreement has been called invalid, American companies – including Google, Facebook, Apple and Microsoft – can no longer rely on self-certification and must seek to strike “model contract clauses” in each case. These agreements authorise the transfer of data outside of Europe.Monique Goyens, director general of the European Consumer Organisation said: “In essence, if Facebook, Google et al. wish to continue sending Europeans’ personal data over the Atlantic they will just have to guarantee an adequate level of protection in line with EU rules.”The impact on large US technology companies and their operations within the EU is likely to be limited to a large amount of paperwork. Many will already have model contract clauses already drawn up. Others may be forced to stop the transfer of data to the US until they have.Many US companies have established or are in the process of building EU-based data centres to handle data for EU citizens, including Facebook, Apple and Google. The search company, for instance, lists four data centres within Europe, including one in Ireland.What about Facebook?For Facebook, which has been placed at the centre of this case by Schrems, the decision means that the Irish data protection authority (DPA) will be forced to investigate the Austrian’s claims and Facebook’s data protection practices.“[The Irish DPA must]decide whether ... transfer of the data of Facebook’s European subscribers to the US should be suspended on the grounds that that country does not afford an adequate level of protection of personal data,” the EUCJ said.Will I notice anything different?The impact on users in the short term is unlikely to be obvious. The dissolution of the agreement will, in theory, ensure better data protection for users’ personal information going forward. It may also help stop the US government from being able to gain access to user data from the EU.Sites and services such as Facebook are highly unlikely to be disrupted to any meaningful level. But it may open the door to further probes, complaints and lawsuits from users and data regulators.What about cloud services?The companies most affected are likely to be smaller, less financially and technologically able companies. Many use US-based cloud services to store or process data that they could not do themselves. It is the 21st century equivalent of outsourcing.Those companies will have to abide by the same systems as Facebook and Google, agreeing model contract clauses and ensuring that the service they are using, such as Amazon’s web services, also complies with data protection regulations.Despite being standard and essentially fixed agreements, getting them approved before transferring data will be both a financial and administrative burden.Will a new safe harbour agreement be needed?The ruling did not come completely out of the blue – it’s a ratification of the EU’sAdvocate General’s opinion on Safe Harbour– but was not expected quite so soon.A new safe harbour agreement is currently being negotiated between the EU and US, and has been in negotiation for the last two years, following the Snowden revelations.The EU has been trying to limit the US government’s access to EU citizens’ data stored in the US and to allow EU citizens to sue US companies in US courts should they misuse their data.The EU has been using the threat of vetoing future trade agreements as a stick, but an agreement has yet to be struck. The new ruling is likely to light a fire under the proceedings as a new agreement is needed to help lubricate international trade in services.Some analysts see the EUCJ’s ruling as likely to hurt, not help, the new safe harbour negotiations.Van Eecke: “By tweaking and fine-tuning the existing safe harbour system and adding a layer of solid enforcement we could come to a workable solution. This is exactly what the government officials are working on, but which now risks to be impeded by the court’s decision.”What happens if one can’t be made?Should the US attempt to derail a new safe harbour agreement, it is US companies aiming to expand beyond US borders that are likely to be impacted. European companies may also see access to advanced cloud services restricted, although the move to data centres situated in Europe will ease the situation.In the meantime encryption may hold the answer to maintaining data transfer while a new agreement is put in place.Nigel Hawthorn, from cloud security company Skyhigh Networks, said: “Organisations need to investigate technologies such as encryption or risk being dragged through the courts by privacy advocates, customers or employees.Tokenisingor encrypting data flows before they are sent to the cloud, and keeping the keys on premise, means all of these issues disappear. There is no ‘personal’ data in the cloud service once it has been encrypted or tokenised.”Leave Facebook if you don’t want to be spied on, warns EULandmark ECJ data protection ruling could impact Facebook and Google
Peeple, the controversial app that promised to let users “review” other people and give them a rating out of five, has softened its offering just weeks before its planned launch.The company had previously scheduled the launch of the new social app, dubbed “Yelp for people”, for November this year.Revealed in early October, the app promised users the ability to “revolutionise the way we’re seen in the world through our relationships”.Users could assign a star rating and feedback to anyone they knew, positive or negative, and the ratee could do very little about it. Every negative review would have been live for at least 48 hours, and in order to remove them, an individual would be encouraged to contest a negative review, leading to accusations that the app would become a libellous quagmire and a harasser’s dream.Following the criticism,Peeple’s website and social media feeds were blanked out, leading to speculation that the app was never going to see the light of day –or even that the whole thing was a hoax. But instead, it looks like it’s still on-track to launch, even earlier than expected: the new website gives a date of 12 October for the app’s release.Error: Failed to load image assetBut according toa posting on LinkedInfrom the app’s developer, a former recruitment executive named Julia Cordray, the app that hit stores might be less controversial than what was previously announced: “You will NOT be on our platform without your explicit permission. There is no 48-hour waiting period to remove negative comments. There is no way to even make negative comments. Simply stated, if you don’t explicitly say ‘approve recommendation’, it will not be visible on our platform.”The new direction leaves the app having more in common with purely positive ranking apps such as Klout and LinkedIn itself.
Facebook co-founder Mark Zuckerberg took to his own timeline on Monday to announce that the company would be providing web access … from space. A new satellite called Amos-6 will make the web accessible from big chunks of sub-Saharan Africa, orbiting over the continent and serving what Zuckerberg characterized as “large parts of west, east and southern Africa”.“Over the last year Facebook has been exploring ways to use aircraft and satellites to beam internet access down into communities from the sky,” Zuckerbergwrote. “To connect people living in remote regions, traditional connectivity infrastructure is often difficult and inefficient, so we need to invent new technologies.”Zuckerberg did not say who would provide the receivers for the satellite signal – the web still has to connect to computers with cables and local Wi-Fi, after all – merely that Facebook was “going to work with local partners across these regions to help communities begin accessing internet services provided through satellite”. The initiative is undertaken in partnership with a charity Facebook runs called Internet.org.As local markets evolve, satellite coverage is often an intermediary measure between not having any internet at all and broadband access. Internet.org asks internet service providers (ISPs) to help provide “free basics” to countries where wired internet penetration is sparse or non-existent, touting the the virtues of developing markets and appealing to the tech world’s charitable instincts.In many countries on the continent, the ISP market is beginning to boom. Until relatively recently, internet in Kenya was largely provided by satellite through a large dish in the Rift Valley; four large submarine fiber-optic cables radically changed the way the country received the web beginning in 2009 under the acronym The East African Marine System (Teams), and now several multinational internet companies have a strong presence in the country, notably Alcatel-Lucent and Fujitsu.But cable rolls out slowly and usually into densest markets first, where it can reward investment quickly. Satellite services such as Zuckerberg’s could provide a much-needed stopgap solution for large parts of the continent where those slowly approaching fiber-optic cables are a long way off.
The iPhone 6S is one of only a handful of smaller premium smartphones and promises fast performance, a great camera and new pressure-sensitive touchscreen.In a world of smartphones with screens larger than 5in, the 4.7in iPhone 6S is in the minority. Most smaller smartphones are cut-down budget models with Sony’s 4.6inXperia Z5 Compactthe exception.Small, sleek but a bit heavierThe small “S” on the back and the pink colour are the iPhone 6S’s only differentiating marks compared to last year’s iPhone.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe iPhone 6S is the spitting image of last year’s iPhone 6. Side-to-side, back-to-back the only visible difference is a small “S” printed on the back and an extra 0.2mm in thickness. Apink version is also available, of course, if you want everyone to know you have the very latest smartphone.At 143g the iPhone 6S is 14g heavier than last year’s model and the larger 5.1in 138gSamsung Galaxy S6and the 138gSony Xperia Z5 Compact. The difference is negligible.It feels reassuringly solid and smooth in the hand compared to the iPhone 6, and it is slightly less slippery. It’s right on the limit of what I can use with one hand and still reach the top of the screen, which you need to be able to do within iOS.The iPhone 6S’s screen, with 326 pixels per inch, has a relatively low pixel density compared to most other flagship smartphones. The denser the pixels, the crisper the screen appears. Lower density is particularly noticeable around text and the edges of icons.The iPhone 6S’s 4.7in screen is noticeably less sharp than the 5.5in 401ppi screen of theiPhone 6S Plus, or the 577ppi 5.1in screen of theSamsung Galaxy S6.While it is similar to theSony Xperia Z5 Compact’s 323ppi screen and you may not notice the reduced clarity unless you put it side by side with a phone like the Galaxy S6, it really is time Apple increased the pixel density of its smaller flagship phone to at least match thatof its phablet.SpecificationsScreen:4.7in 750 x 1334 pixels (326 ppi)Processor:dual-core Apple A9RAM:2GB of RAMStorage:16/64/128GB; no SD cardOperating system:iOS 9Camera:12MP rear camera, 5MP front-facing cameraConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi, NFC, Bluetooth 4.2 and GPSDimensions:138.3 x 67.1 x 7.1mmWeight:143gAs fast as an iPhone can beThe speaker in the bottom of the iPhone is one of the best sounding smartphone speakers available, but is easily blocked by a hand.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe iPhone 6S has the same dual-core A9 processor and 2GB of RAM as the 6S Plus and performs similarly.It’s as snappy as an Apple smartphone can currently be, limited by the fixed duration of iOS 9’s animations, all of which are as smooth as they were on the iPhone 6. It’s not nearly as snappy asSamsung’s Galaxy S6, which is not held back by the same animation speed limit.A couple of larger apps and heavier processes, such as video or photo editing, are slightly faster to load and get work done than last year’s iPhone. Switching between apps is also slightly faster and the Siri suggest screen on the left-most homescreen within iOS 9 also loads faster on the iPhone 6S compared to the iPhone 6.Apple claims the A9 is 70% faster than last year’s A8 but not many apps are available yet to take advantage of the extra speed.I found the iPhone 6S became warmer than theiPhone 6S Plus, particularly when downloading or accessing content via the mobile broadband connection rather than Wi-Fi.Call quality was excellent and reliable, with no dropped calls in my testing on EE’s mobile network in London. Wi-Fi calling was also excellent and only took around a second to log on when connecting to Wi-Fi.Has anyone got an iPhone charger?Battery life is poor for a top-end smartphone, meaning there will be no abatement of the periodic shouts of ‘has anyone got an iPhone charger’ across the office.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianBattery life is the iPhone 6S’s biggest problem. During the week the phone failed to make it past 11pm after leaving the charger at 7.30am in the morning.I used the iPhone as my primary device, receiving hundreds of emails and push notifications, conducting 2.5 hours of browsing, three hours of music playback via Bluetooth headphones, taking a couple of pictures and playing the odd game of Angry Birds 2 on the train home.At the weekend it spent most of the day sitting on a table untouched, but I still went to bed with only 30% charge left. Apple’s new Low Power Mode made little appreciable difference in real-world use.Apple has chosen weight and thickness over battery life, which is a poor choice. Your experience may vary, but I suspect you will have to charge the iPhone 6S twice a day.iOS 9The app switcher in iOS 9 is fast and fluid on the iPhone 6S.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe iPhone 6S comeswith iOS 9pre-installed; the same software that runs on any iPhone from the 4S and newer. There are a few features such as Live Photos and always-listening Siri which are exclusive to this year’s iPhones.iOS 9 seems better designed for the smaller phone. For example, menu options to go back are placed in the top left hand corner, which I can reach with only one hand. The tightly kerned typeface San Francisco is also designed to fit more text on a smaller screen.For more informationsee the iOS 9 review.3D Touch3D Touch senses pressure on the screen to invoke gesture-based actions, such as pop-up menus.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe new pressure-sensitive screen provides options for more gestures based on pressing harder. Generally this invokes a pop-up menu similar to a right click. Homescreen icons will show a quick action menu, while Instagram shows recent photos from users when pressing harder on their username.The “peek” and “pop” gestures, as Apple calls them, allow users to preview an email, for example, without opening it by pushing harder. Releasing and pushing harder again opens it fully. It’s useful in the Calendar app to preview a day in month view, but 3D Touch lacks any killer features for now.Touch IDThe Touch ID fingerprint sensor under the home button is much quicker than Apple’s previous efforts, unlocking in under a second and recognising my thumb 99% of the time.It makes using Apple Pay a lot faster and less clumsy, although some have complained that you can’t see notifications on the lockscreen because it unlocks too fast. That’s what an Apple Watch is for, I suppose, or you could use another finger.Taptic EngineThe Taptic Engine creates much sharper, more defined vibrations. It feels great in the hand, but I found it too weak in the pocket without switching to a much more aggressive vibration pattern in the Settings app.CameraThe 12-megapixel camera brings the iPhone up to scratch with the latest smartphone cameras from its rivals.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe iPhone 6S’s new 12-megapixel camera is one of the best available on a smartphone, but it is not leagues ahead of the competition anymore and only slightly improved over the iPhone 6.Photos are captured with good detail and excellent colour balance. Low light performance is good too, as is video recording, which is smooth when captured at 60 frames per second.The lack of optical image stabilisation whencompared to the 6S Pluswas not particularly noticeable for normal shots, but video and photos shot in low light were slightly more shaky and blurred, particularly towards the end of a night out.Recording 4K video takes up 300MB of storage space per minute, producing decent if not exceptional video, while the 3MB Live Photos are an interesting novelty of which I easily became bored. I ended up shooting more videos after becoming frustrated with the poor quality and low frame rate of Live Photos.PriceThe iPhone 6S costs £539 for 16GB of storage, £619 for 64GB and £699 for 128GB in silver, dark grey, gold and pink.Competitors such as theSamsung Galaxy S6costs £400 for 32GB of storage andSony Xperia Z5 Compactis available for pre-order costing £450 for 32GB with expansion support.No one should buy the 16GB storage versionas it is just not enough spacefor today’s apps, music, photos and video, particularly if shot in 4K or taking Live Photos.Avoid the 16GB if you have the budget.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianVerdictThe iPhone 6S has the potential to be the best smaller smartphone on the market, but its short battery life is deeply frustrating.Apple’s iOS 9 fits and works better on the 4.7in screen than on the larger iPhone 6S Plus, the bezels and size of the device compared to the screen are more suited to the smaller size and it feels great in the hand.But it can’t get you home on a night out, it can’t pull double duty as a camera on holiday and it can’t be a commuter’s boredom destroyer without a top up during the day.Pros:fast fingerprint scanner, good camera, Taptic Engine, solid build, great feelingCons:poor battery life of less than a day, expensive, 16GB is not enough storage, no OIS like the 6S Plus, vibration not intense enough to reliably notice incoming textsThe iPhone 6S is one of small handful of top-end smartphones that you can still use with one hand.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianOther reviewsiPhone 6S Plus review: barely better than the iPhone 6 PlusSony Xperia Z5 Compact review: arguably the best smaller smartphoneSamsung Galaxy S6 review: the iPhone killerSamsung Galaxy S6 Edge review: curves for pleasure, not functionHuawei P8 review: thin, powerful and undercuts the competition
It’s Tuesday.
The ride-hailing app Uber is at the centre of a crucial high court case as London’s transport authority seeks clarity on whether smartphones can lawfully be used to calculate fares.After a day hearing evidence from all sides, the judge is widely expected to give his decision on Tuesday. If he rules against Uber, the verdict will be viewed as a victory for black-cab drivers and other minicab groups who feel the disruptive tech-focused competitor hasnot been regulated firmly enoughduring its three years of rapid growth in London.Martin Chamberlain QC, appearing for Transport for London (TfL), told the judge it had taken the view from the outset that the smartphone app was lawful.But because the contrary view was arguable and the narrow point of law involved is difficult, TfL had come to the high court in London to seek clarification.Chamberlain told Mr Justice Ouseley: “TfL brings these proceedings in its capacity as the regulating authority for both private hire and (black cab) taxis in London.”Related:Boris Johnson accuses Uber of 'systematically breaking the law'The crucial issue is whether the phones, which use GPS technology and connect to external servers to carry out calculations, are taximeters, which are prohibited in private hire vehicles in London.An Uber spokesman said: “We believe the Uber app on a partner-driver’s phone is not a taximeter, and TfL – the regulator – shares this view. We are looking forward to getting binding clarity on this issue in the high court. However, the outcome of the case would not affect Uber’s licence in London or its ability to operate here.”Uber now has 18,000 registered drivers in the capital and a growing customer base, attracted by the service’s convenience and competitive fares.Butdetractors criticise its tax arrangementsand say Uber drivers are not as knowledgeable as traditional cabbies.The Guardian has also exposeda breach in its driver approvals process, described as unique by Uber.Uber, which is backed by investors including Goldman Sachs and Google Ventures, argues that a taximeter is very different to its own technology. Taximeters are closely regulated by TfL in return for black cabs getting certain privileges, which include being allowed to drive in the bus lane.The hearing included submissions from Uber London Ltd and the main trade bodies: the Licensed Taxi Drivers Association and Licensed Private Hire Car Association.Black-cab drivers, several of whom were in court on Monday along with Uber’s UK head, Jo Bertram,have demonstrated in the capitalagainst TfL’s handling of regulation for private hire companies, in particular Uber, and suggested that the ride-sharing app puts public safety at risk.Uber has hit out against proposals to tighten private hire regulation followingTfL’s launch of a consultationon a series of measures that would affect minicab drivers in London.
1. Decide what Twitter is and what it isn’t, and whether 140 characters is still enoughTwitter’s character limit dates back to the days of SMS messaging: it’s long enough to include the whole message, an 18 character username, one colon and one space per 160 character text. Now Twitter offers pictures, videos, and links, and is barely used over text message at all. As a result, users have taken to screenshotting large paragraphs of text to tweet longer missives. The company has to decide whether it’s going to attempt to stay a fast and brief messaging service or become a slower, richer social media site – andthere are suggestionsthat the new chief executive Jack Dorsey may be backing the biggest change in the site’s history.2. Fix the onboarding experiencePeople who use Twitter and love it have painstakingly found hundreds or even thousands of interesting, informative, smart and funny people to follow around the world. People who are just signing up to the service haven’t. And so the out-of-the-box experience for the service is poor. Compare it to Facebook, where at least a new user is prompted to follow a few people they know from real life, and promptly get pictures and stories shared by their friends and family filling up their feed. With Twitter, a new user is prompted to follow a smattering of celebrities and news accounts, and usually ends up feeling lost at sea.3. Make it better for people who don’t even have an accountTwitter’s former CEO Dick Costolo admitted the company had failed in dealing with trolls. Can Jack Dorsey reverse the tide of hate?Photograph: Sebastien Nogier/EPAIn its results, Twitter has emphasised that many visitors to the website don’t even have an account there. But most onlookers have taken that as a mealy-mouthed excuse for why the company hasn’t actually succeeded in growing its monthly active users, the most common metric for success of a social network. If Twitter means it, it should focus on improving the experience for users who don’t have accounts on the site, letting them easily experience the best of Twitter to encourage them to sign up for an account in the future.4. Deal with abuseFormer CEO Dick Costoloadmitted that the company“sucked” at dealing with trolls and abuse, and said he’d personally intervene to tackle it. Six months on, the company has made huge progress, but it’s still a big problem that is causing some of the site’s most dedicated users to flee. Many of the bigger names have stopped engaging due to threats and hate, as well as numerous regular users who put their heads above the parapet only to get anonymously shouted down. Worse still, Twitter has failed to to even prevent its own paid tools from being used to spread abuse, with people taking advantage of the system of promoted tweets tospread graphic imagesandhate speech. Be it through verification of users or content filtering, something urgently needs to be done.5. Cull spam accountsThere are loads of them, filling up the notifications of anyone who dares to tweet a few monitored words such as “followers” or “iPhone”. And, despite efforts to tackle spam, the numbers seem not to be dented at all. Could one reason be that the uncountably huge quantity of spam accounts inflate the site’s active user numbers?Could the Jack effect help Instagram and Twitter kiss and make up?Photograph: Thomas Coex/AFP/Getty Images6. Kiss and make up with InstagramGreater integration breeds greater engagement and it’s about time that Twitter buried the hatchet with Facebook. In 2012, Twitter blocked access to Instagram, preventing it from hooking up with the service to let users import their contacts from one to the other. In response, Instagram removed its own support for Twitter cards, requiring Twitterers to click through to see posted pics. The end result has been worse for both services – but ultimately, Twitter’s been hurt more than Instagram. But Twitter loves cutting off its nose to spite its face: in the early days, third-party apps did the Twitter experience better than the company’s in-house products (which initially didn’t even include an app), and ever since it clamped down on these, innovation has stalled.7. Bring back gif avatarsTwitter allowed animated gif avatars before it was cool. Then, they turned them off (althoughsomepeoplewho haven’t changed them since still have them). But gifs are back!Even Facebook is getting in on the actwith its animated profile pics. It’s time for Twitter to flick the switch, too.Returning Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey’s in-tray is looking pretty packed.Photograph: Scott Olson/Getty Images8. Improve threaded conversationsIt was a step forward to start threading conversations, but even less helpful than threadless replies in a news feed are partially threaded ones. The company has made steady improvements to the feature, but it’s still a mess. It works differently depending on whether you’re on a phone or desktop, and nowhere is it a good experience.9. Allow opt-outs for spoilersTwitter wants to be the go-to place for live events. That’s great if you’re following along with the social network as a second screen, but not so good if you’re trying to avoid spoilers til you can catch up later. Call it a PR stunt, but the network needs a system to stop tweets with spoilers from ending up in the feeds of users who don’t want to see them. It’s already begun mining the content of tweets to suggest a dedicated timeline for users who want to read more on the topic; all it needs to do is the reverse to provide a good opt-out for users who don’t want to be spoiled. Let a user mute “Formula One”, and it could filter out associated keywords such as F1, drivers’ names, tracks and teams. And as a bonus, it would let those who don’t care avoid the topic entirely.10. Bring back a desktop app (that isn’t a web app)Once, there was Tweetie for Mac. It was excellent. Then, Twitter bought Tweetie, and Tweetie for Mac became Twitter for Mac. Then: nothing. The app hasn’t been updated for years, and there’s never been an official app for Windows other than Tweetdeck, the beefed-up web app for power-users. The company should bring something like Twitter for Mac back and make a genuinely native app for Windows. Twitter has a lot of power users, and it needs to help them help itself.11. Convince shareholders Twitter doesn’t have to be FacebookFacebook has more than a billion users. Twitter doesn’t. That’s OK! Ending the relentless focus on growth, and doubling down on the product could help Twitter become better than ever. And who knows: maybe making something that people love could actually help the company grow organically better than copying Facebook?
Businesses are coming under frequent and increasingly brazen attacks from computer hackers looking to steal sensitive data about customers and disrupt their operations. But many organisations are failing to take adequate steps to repel these onslaughts and often seem clueless about what to do when they happen.This summer’s scandal, whenhackers attacked the Ashley Madison adultery website– posting confidential details online about 33 million accounts – should serve as a wake-up call to businesses, especially those dealing with personal data. They need to protect their customers’ data from cyber-attack – or see their reputations shredded.Theattack on French TV network TV5Monde in Aprilwas even more worrying. The hackers managed to keep the TV channels off air for several hours and posted a message on the organisation’s website claiming to be from Jihadists associated with Isis. Threats were made against the families of French security personnel. Reports later suggested that French authorities suspected the hand of a hacking group with links to the Russian government.But wherever the threats come from – and there are plenty of diverse groups and individuals looking to mount such attacks – many organisations seem powerless to stop the intruders and protect their data.To discuss how businesses and other organisations can boost their cybersecurity, The Guardian, in association with Fujitsu and Symantec, brought together senior online security experts, academics and compliance managers for a roundtable discussion entitled: “Data protection: a critical part of good corporate citizenship?” Participants examined strategies for protecting IT networks from attack and discussed the steps organisations must take to ensure they safeguard their customers’ data better.Part of the problem is that anti-hacking technology such as antivirus software and firewalls have become so sophisticated that hackers have decided to concentrate their efforts on “social engineering” attacks. These involve tricking members of staff into giving away usernames, passwords and other details that can be used to log in to networks.Another risk is that staff may leave laptops, mobiles and documents containing sensitive information in public places, or fall for telephone scammers looking to extract private information.The panel agreed that educating staff to be more aware of these threats is vital, and that with people increasingly working from different locations – at home, in cafes, on the train or plane – the risks are increasing.Zeshan Sattar: “Yes, we can look at the technology, but we also need to look at the human risk.”Photograph: James Drew TurnerAs Zeshan Sattar, a certification evangelist at CompTIA, a trade body for small businesses, said: “People want to work anywhere and everywhere. They open their laptop up and it is confidential – they are really not thinking about what they are doing. Yes, we can look at the technology, but we also need to look at the people and the human risk.”Rather than blaming staff for these failings, should companies be be implementing basic cyber-hygiene in their systems? Or is there not much they can do to protect themselves?“Determined hackers can get in anywhere,” said David Smith, deputy commissioner and director of data protection for the Information Commissioner’s Office, “but in lots of the cases that come to us, if basic measures had been in place, hackers wouldn’t have got in the way they got in.” Fines are levied where companies have failed to take adequate protection, he added.Auriol Stevens, director, Restoration Partners, Lockheed Martin Virtual Technology Cluster, said the onus was on businesses to find clear ways of explaining the dangers of hacking.“You need to tell people about the threats in simple terms. People didn’t understand war theory (in WW2) but they understood ‘Careless talk costs lives,’” she said.Mariarosaria Taddeo: “Provide people with information about why the data is important rather than treating people as stupid.”Photograph: James Drew TurnerBut Mariarosaria Taddeo, researcher at the Oxford Internet Institute at University of Oxford, warned against oversimplifying the issues. She said organisations need to focus on explaining the dangers better.“Provide people with information about why the data is important rather than treating people as stupid and just saying it is confidential - explain why that matters. Words like confidential can be cliquey and the word policy turns people off - you’ve lost them.”One of the big debates is whether organisations should allow staff to use their own smartphones, tablets and laptops for work - so-called “Bring your own device”. This increases risk, because these devices can be more easily accessed by hackers.Where companies provide devices to staff, workers tend to store their work in cloud services, then transfer it over to their own devices, which makes the data vulnerable. One way around this is what is known as “choose your own device” where staff are given a budget and allowed to buy a device of their choice.Sian John, chief strategist for EMEA at Symantec, explained the dangers of this strategy: “If you don’t spend enough people will just put files in the cloud or email them to themselves and then open them on a personal device. It’s worth spending extra on a fancy, top-of-the-range machine to make it less likely they will put work on their own device.”An underlying problem for many organisations is a lack of understanding about the importance of data and security. Until the boards and senior managers grasp that data is a hugely valuable asset for their business, they will always demote cybersecurity in their list of priorities.Jane Wainwright, director of cybersecurity &amp; data protection at PwC, said it is not the responsibility of either the IT department or the security department to explain the value of data – it is a job for senior management.“What I want to hear from them is: ‘We protect data because it is the right thing to do for our customers.’ It’s good if you can use the values of an organisation to get people to understand why the data they have access to matters.”Leaving data security solely to the IT department can create problems, said Mark Edwards, technical director at Capital Network Solutions. “Quite often, the IT department will see it as a failure in their role if they have an incident, so they’ll try and cover it up for as long as possible.”Some believe that it is inevitable hackers will find their way into corporate networks, so these should be segmented and structured so the intruders cannot move around and access data with ease.A significant issue with the TV5Monde attack in April was that the hack seemed to have started at a relatively low level, with a phishing email that three members of staff replied to, allowing the hackers to infiltrate the system with Trojan Horse malware, which tricks users into installing a malicious computer program. The hackers were then able to pass through the firewalls and access not just staff computers and Twitter and Facebook accounts, but also the servers that controlled TV production. This raises questions over the effectiveness of firewalls that separate different areas of operation. Companies need effective “air gaps” where their IT systems are not connected, so hacks cannot spread.Shirin Shah, manager of governance, risk, control and compliance at EDF Energy, said the business operates separate systems for different parts of the business.Shirin Shah: “We have segregated networks, so for our nuclear business there is a totally separate and much more secure network.”Photograph: James Drew Turner“We have segregated networks, so for our nuclear business there is a totally separate and much more secure network. We have three networks at the moment, so the different parts of the business are segregated according to the risk. We have a customer side of the business where we need to be quite open and communicate with our customers and the other part of business is very secure and locked down.”Andy Herrington, head of cyber professional services at Fujitsu, said it could it could be another generation before people get a good grasp of risk management in IT. But he believes the Ashley Madison attack was a watershed. “In 10 or 20 years’ time people may look back and say there was a sea change because it affected people in a very personal way.” And he added: “Look at the Titanic – it fundamentally changed safety at sea almost instantaneously.”Siraj Ahmed Shaikh, cybersecurity lead at Knowledge Transfer Network, said there needs to be a clearer view of the role technology plays in society. “Is technology just a service or is it an infrastructure, in which case we regulate it.”David Evans, director of policy and community at BCS, the Chartered Institute for IT, said people need to have a better idea about how trustworthy different organisations are with their data. This could have huge implications for the future of digital technology, such as the Internet of Things (IoT). “If we don’t have trust we’ll have a massive digital switch off. Many of the people providing the building blocks for the IoT are worried about a lack of trust in digital services, because it will stuff up the market for them.”Hack attacks will continue. But the future of digital services will depend on organisations getting better at protecting their customers’ data and finding ways to keep the hackers at bay.At the tableSamuel Gibbs (Chair)Technology journalist, the Guardian News and MediaMark EdwardsTechnical director, Capital Network SolutionsDavid EvansDirector of policy and community, BCS, The Chartered Institute for ITAndy HerringtonHead of cyber professional services, FujitsuSian JohnChief strategist, EMEA, SymantecZeshan SattarCertification evangelist, CompTIAShirin ShahGovernance, risk, control and compliance manager, EDF EnergySiraj Ahmed ShaikhCybersecurity lead, Knowledge Transfer NetworkDavid SmithDeputy commissioner and director of data, Information Commissioner’s OfficeAuriol StevensDirector, Restoration Partners, Lockheed Martin Virtual Technology ClusterMariarosaria TaddeoResearcher, Oxford Internet Institute, University of OxfordJane WainwrightDirector, cybersecurity and data protection, PwCThis content has been sponsored by Fujitsu and Symantec (whose brands it displays). All content is editorially independent. Contact Ashley Evans(ashley.evans@theguardian.com). For information on debates visit:theguardian.com/sponsored-content
Twitter has confirmed Jack Dorsey as its new chief executive. Dorsey, currently the company’s interim CEO, co-founded Twitter in 2007 and was its first CEO.He has served as the interim head of the firm for the past three months, after former boss Dick Costolo stepped down on 1 July. Alongside his appointment, the company also promoted Adam Bain, formerly the company’s president of global revenue &amp; partnerships, to a chief operating officer role.Bain had been widely seen as the biggest competitor to Dorsey for the head position, but reportedly said he would only take it if Dorsey turned it down.Chris Sacca, a former Google exec, an investor in Twitter and the head of Lowercase Capital, said while he “absolutely” thought Adam Bain would make a great CEO, he saw the realignment as a partnership between the two men and not a choice between them. “[R]ather than an either/or, it says everything about Jack and Adam that they worked out this unique way to continue their collaboration,” Sacca said. “Their strengths are entirely complementary and my confidence is high.”Sacca has been a staunch proponent of Dorsey’s throughout the interim period. “Jack has a gift for seeing the future of the product and inspiring those on the team to make it happen,” he said. “His approach cuts through internal politics and focuses entirely on results. In his time as an interim CEO you have already seen Twitter’s pace of execution accelerate and the core business improve. I have no doubt he is just getting started.”Despite the announcement, Dorsey (who tweets as @jack) will remain the head of fast-growing mobile payments company Square, potentially setting up a conflict of interest for the co-founder of both companies. Twitter had previously said the CEO job would be a full-time position,which seemed to exclude Dorsey as long as he continued to run Square. He also sits on the board of Disney.We are naming@adambainCOO of Twitter, we&#39;re working to change the composition of our Board, and I will serve as CEO of Twitter and Square!&mdash; Jack (@jack)October 5, 2015I&#39;ve been CEO of both companies for over 3 months now. I have the smartest, strongest, and most determined leaders in the world on my teams.&mdash; Jack (@jack)October 5, 2015Inan SEC filingconfirming the promotions, Twitter wrote: “Mr. Dorsey was selected to serve on the board because of the perspective and experience he brings as one of Twitter’s founders and as one of Twitter’s largest stockholders, as well as his extensive experience with technology companies.”Vivian Schiller, formerly the head of news for the popular site, said that it’s important for the company to get out of limbo. “This is a company where there will be a gigantic exhale – Twitter needs leadership,” she told the Guardian.“They’ve been stalled at this fork in the road for a while,” said Schiller. “The path is either to go deep, or to extend the product to compete with Facebook and Instagram. A CEO who’s got the mandate and can provide marching orders for the entire organization is really needed. It’s still a very challenging situation.”Dorsey’s return to the company he helped found has already had an effect on Twitter. In late September, news broke that the company was considering removing, or adding exceptions to, its long-standing policylimiting individual messages to 140 characters. The news was greeted with mixed feelings by users of the social network, with some arguing that any change would remove the aspect which makes it unique when compared to other networks such as Facebook.However, others pointed to the fact that users have been increasingly inventive in finding ways to circumvent the limit, such as posting links to text hosted elsewhere, screenshots of notetaking apps, or simply multi-tweet “tweetstorms” – a practice made popular by venture capitalist Marc Andreessen.An unnamed Twitter employeetold Re/Codethat Dorsey’s return was the impetus for reassessing the role of the character limit: “Having Jack come in and say it’s OK makes all the difference in the world.”Dick Costolo, the former CEO of Twitter, is also stepping down from the board. The company is now advertising for a new board member, who will also replace Dorsey as chairman of the board.
It’s hard to believe now, but during the late 90s, the Lego company faced an enormous struggle to stay relevant and profitable as children turned elsewhere for entertainment. Now, however, the Danish toy outfit has established itself as a cultural giant built not just from little bricks, but from licensed toys, animated feature films and, of course, video games.The unique, symbiotic connection between key brands like Star Wars, physical Lego playsets and the hugely successful Lego series of games was always going to lead toward a “toys-to-life” title. In this genre, created by Activision’s Skylanders series, special action figures can be placed on a USB portal, which then renders them into the on-screen action (using a rather unglamorous technology close to that which sees an Oyster card open a Tube station’s gate). The only surprise is that it’s taken so long for Dimensions to arrive.Created by Traveller’s Tales, the team behind many of the recent Lego video games, Dimensions’ design takes on a fundamentally similar form to its forbearers. It’s a third-person action-adventure where gameplay centres on light combat and environmental puzzle solving, with switches, levers and locked doors serving as Dimension’s core currency of interaction.But while it’s conventional, it is certainly not mediocre. Lego Dimensions offers a hugely captivating world filled with character and considered design. The wit that this studio has brought to its previous titles is immediately evident in the setting. Thanks to the dimension-plundering efforts of an archetypical super villain played by Gary Oldman, the game’s cast of protagonists – opening with the Batman, Gandalf and Lego Movie characters included in the starter pack – are forced to protect a series of high-profile fictional worlds. The result sees the protagonists, locations and lore of The Wizard of Oz, Doctor Who, The Simpsons and more mixed and mashed into a series of entertaining levels.The environments are detailed and imaginative, playing home to well-designed puzzles that reward single and cooperative play with near equal grace. The quality of writing and knack for comedy shines through. Whether it’s Batman’s frustrated attempt to comprehend a Tardis, or confusion about right and wrong on the Yellow Brick Road, Dimensions knows how to raise a smile. There are odd glitches to be found, and perhaps the value of the boss battle is slightly overstated throughout the game. Predominantly, though, Dimensions is tremendous fun.But what of those physical toys? In Dimensions they are, of course, built from Lego, taking the form of characters and vehicles. The starter pack includes the required Toy Pad platform, the three aforementioned character figures, and one vehicle; a diminutive Lego Batmobile.Very quickly, the unique strength of Lego reveals itself. While other toys-to-life games like Skylanders and Disney Infinity have mostly provided players with static action figures, this is a game that wants you to reallyplaywith the toys. In fact, the opening starts with putting the controller aside and building a portal on the Toy Pad. Later models are reconstructed to track progress and reflect upgrades in game, and throughout, you’re never far from the next moment you switch thumbsticks for bricks.But with the toys also comes Dimension’s capacity to irritate. Unavailable areas, hidden items and other concealed elements lurk in each and every level. Many can only be accessed by certain characters or vehicles not included in the starter pack, which must be purchased in the real world for real money.Although this is a standard feature of this genre, it’s still a bridge between the physical and virtual that most parents could probably do without – especially as the extra sets do not come cheap. Available in various arrangements that each provide new Lego models and game content – including entire new missions and levels in some cases – the packs are certainly of a quality equal to the base game. But it is Dimension’s habit of constantly suggesting the introduction of these new elements that is bound to put pressure on parental wallets.Buying a new pack does make revisiting a level rewarding, and arguably lends longevity to the experience. But one thing is clear; the completist will have to spend hundreds of pounds to experience Dimensions in its entirety.The base game, though, remains superb – the ways Dimensions harnesses what Lego does best to blend the tangible with the digital is consistently delightful. Dimensions may be the best Lego game yet, but like the sweets at the supermarket counter, or those tantalising extras in the latest free-to-play smartphone game, it might prove most talented when it comes to causing friction between parent and child.Warner Bros; PS3/PS4/Wii U/Xbox 360/Xbox One (version tested); £80; Pegi rating: 7+
Google is now Alphabet. Temporary Holding Company Number Two is now Google. And “don’t be evil” is now one step closer to being a thing of the past.Following the corporate reshuffle at Google, the world’s largest search firm is now owned by a holding company called “Alphabet” – which, confusingly, was temporarily a subsidiary of Google but then executed a “reverse takeover” of its parent company to become the new boss, at which point Google spun off a number of its own subsidiaries such as its life sciences subsidiary Calico and “moonshot” division X to sit under Alphabet.The end result is that the Google we all know and love still exists, but sits under an entirely new company, with a new name, new brand, new website – and new ethics policy.When Alphabet was revealed, it was made clear that Google’s pre-existing ethics policy would only apply to the search firm itself, rather than its parent company. But now that Alphabet has revealed its own Code of Conduct, and the words “don’t be evil” are nowhere in sight.Instead, the holding company hasa rather less pithy set of requirements for its employees, including “avoid conflicts of interest”, “ensure financial integrity and responsibility” and “obey the law”.That means that Google’s own companies, including YouTube and Android, are still run with a code of conduct that includes the command “don’t be evil” (as well as the less well-known statement that “we like cats, but we’re a dog company”), while the companies that sit directly under Alphabet aren’t.Alphabet’s other subsidiaries such as X, the division in charge of the company’s balloon-powered internet drone delivery projects, will still have the ability to set their own codes of conduct, just as Google itself has. But the company itself leads on the highly catchy requirement that “Employees of Alphabet and its subsidiaries … should do the right thing – follow the law, act honorably, and treat each other with respect.”It isn’t the first time Google has downgraded “don’t be evil” in its internal communications. In 2009, the companyquietly dropped the line from “motto” to “mantra”, as part of a rebranding of its corporate PR – a far cry from the early noughties, where the phrase had even been included in the company’s 2004 intial public offering.
It’s the time of year that every gamer loves: the shops are filled with brand new PlayStation, Xbox and Nintendo releases and you can’t switch on the television without an advert for some blockbusting sci-fi shooter attacking your eyeballs.But if you’ve resisted the lure of the latest games consoles for the last two years, is now the time to dive in?Here are five reasons why the answer may quite possibly be yes.Developers are getting to grips with the hardwareJust after the launch of PlayStation 4, the machine’s designerMark Cerny saidit would be three years before we saw studios starting to truly exploit the capabilities of the hardware – for example, using the graphics processor for other tasks such as collision detection and physics to boost performance. This, he said, would hugely increase the depth and accuracy of game worlds.“It takes a while before the software development kits – the applications that developers use to make games – really come into maturity,” says independent developer Byron Atkinson-Jones. “It’s even longer before developers fully learn how to exploit the hardware. This means less constraints on your imagination – I certainly expect to see leaps in artificial intelligence, physics and graphical realism”.Right now, we’re getting the first wave of big titles – Witcher 3,Star Wars: Battlefront,Assassin’s Creed: Syndicate– that are leaving the last-gen machines behind. Coming up, Uncharted 4 is set toreally push PS4in its use of physics and graphical shaders, while on Xbox One, Quantum Break is promisingstate-of-the-art rendering techand Crackdown 3 is using cloud computing to create100% destructible cities. We’re also seeing interesting experiments with online multiplayer gaming, including hugely ambitious projects like No Man’s Sky on PS4 andElite: Dangerouson Xbox One.There are already lots of great gamesWith its vast, detailed environment and seemingly endless narrative, Witcher 3 typifies current-gen gaming.The first year of a console’s life is usually pretty low on truly excellent titles. Developers are still getting to grips with the hardware, while the manufacturers are busy making desperate tweaks to the user interface and operating systems.Two years after launch, however, things are really picking up for the current generation. Xbox One and PS4 have several bona-fide classics including Witcher 3,Metal Gear Solid 5: The Phantom Pain,Batman: Arkham KnightandBloodborne(a PS4 exclusive). There are also strong second tier offerings likeDragon Age: Inquisition,Middle Earth: Shadow of Mordor,Far Cry 4, Until Dawn (PS4 only),Forza Horizon 2(only on Xbox One) andDestiny.Both machines also support a large vibrant indie community producing beautiful offbeat titles like Shovel Knight,Guacamelee,Ori and the Blind Forest, N++, Binding of Isaac: Rebirth, Resogun and Lovers in a Dangerous Space Time. So it’s not all shooting serious looking men in the face with licensed firearms.Nintendo’s latest machine was slow to start but now it has a beautiful collection of family-friendly titles likeMario Kart 8,Splatoon,Super Mario 3D World,Super Smash Bros,Super Mario MakerandPikmin 3. There are also choices for older gamers includingBayonetta 2and a great update of cult action role-player Darkstalkers II. It’s not a vast library that’s for sure, but you’ll get many hours of pleasure out of all of these – and you can’t play them anywhere else.Alternative view:most of the big PS4 and Xbox One releases are also available on the PS3 and Xbox 360. They don’t look as good and are missing some of the more sophisticated features, but you’re still getting roughly the same game experience. Indeed, a lot of well-reviewed Xbox One and PS4 titles – including GTA V, Last of Us,Dishonoredand Tomb Raider are merely graphically enhanced versions of last-gen titles. If none of the new or forthcoming releases interest you and you’re not a big online gamer, you could hang on for another year.This is a pretty good Christmas for new releases – and more are on the wayNo Man’s Sky simulates an entire galaxy providing players with a multiplayer exploration game like no other.So far this quarter, we’ve already had Metal Gear Solid 5: Phantom Pain, two great football sims (Pro Evolution SoccerandFifa 16),Forza Motorsport 6(on Xbox One) and the game-changingDestiny: Taken King. Coming up there’s the vast apocalyptic adventureFallout 4, anarchic sandbox stunt ’em up Just Cause 3, Call of Duty: Black Ops III,Assassin’s Creed Syndicate,Rise of the Tomb Raiderand the long-awaited online shooter Star Wars Battlefront. As for exclusives, Xbox One is getting Halo 5: Guardians, while PS4 owners will need to wait a little longer for promising biggies like space exploration sim No Man’s Sky and rollicking action adventure Uncharted 4: Thief’s End.On Wii U, we’ve seen the gorgeous platformer construction kit Super Mario Maker and the super cuteYoshi’s Woolly World– there’s also a nice version ofSkylanders Super Chargerswhich adds Donkey Kong and Bowser to the cast.Things are looking healthy in 2016, too – especially if you like huge sequels. New Gears of War, Mirror’s Edge, Dark Souls, Crackdown, Hitman, Doom and XCOM are all on the way, with Zelda, Star Wing and Mario Tennis heading back to Nintendo’s console.Alternative view:We’re yet to see any incredibly innovative, vastly experimental ideas on the current consoles. These machines are still relying on the same familiar franchises and well-worn genres from the last generation. If you love sci-fi shooters and open-world action role-playing fantasies, you’re going to be fine. If you’re waiting until we get an absolutely pivotal, epoch-shattering moment of transcendental genius – erm, keep waiting.The prices are pretty goodThe PlayStation 4 is around £300 with a one terabyte hard drive. Xbox One is £280 with a 500GB drive or £320 with 1TB. The Wii U is between £180 and £200 for a basic box. There’s also a vast range of decent bundle deals which come complete with big new games – often for no extra cash. Look out, too, for the nice limited editions and exclusives around big games like Halo 5, Destiny: Taken Kings and Metal Gear Solid 5. Retailers are really looking to undercut each other this winter so check around for good deals.“Both Xbox One and PS4 are now around 20-30% cheaper than their original launch prices on the original specification machines with new, improved models on the way,” says Debbie Bestwick, the managing director of Team17. “These include the 1TB Xbox One with a 20% faster boot up time and the new 500GB CUH-1200 series PS4 which uses 25% less power, running cooler and quieter, as well as a 1TB model too.”Alternative view:OK, these things are still not cheap. If you just want to play games alone or on the sofa with your family and don’t care about keeping up with your friends, the PS3 and Xbox 360 still have plenty to offer – and can be picked up used for less than £100 each. You’ll get a Wii and a shed-load of games for half that.There are intriguing new things on the waySony’s PlayStation VR headset, due out next year, works with the previously underused Move controllers to provide an unprecedented virtual-reality experience.Playstation 4 is about to enter the virtual world with its PlayStation VR headset, due next year with a large list of supporting titles. There’s no firm release date or price yet, but even if it’s £300, it’ll still be one of the cheapest ways to get in on the virtual reality craze.Meanwhile, Microsoft’s incoming Hololens augmented-reality headset will be compatible with Xbox One – as is the Windows 10 operating system whichintroduces cross-platform playbetween computer and console. Oh, and this winter, the Microsoft’s machine is getting a huge update. TheNew Xbox One Experiencewill update the look and feel of the interface and add new features such as backwards compatibility with over 100 Xbox 360 titles.Conclusion – or “hey, what about the PC?”If you have the money to spare, then yes, it’s a good time to buy a console, particularly if you enjoy playing online with friends. We have three really strong machines that have large varied software back catalogues and plenty of intriguing games on the way. Developers are starting to test the hardware, especially the PS4 and Xbox One, leading to intriguing advances in areas such as physics, visual effects and artificial intelligence (advances that mean the PS3 and Xbox 360 are gradually being left out of release plans). There’s also a thriving indie community with lots of offbeat unusual titles like Grow Home, Beyond Eyes and Everybody’s Gone to the Rapture, which don’t fit into the well-worn genres.“Both the Wii U and the PlayStation 4 now have a great selection of games to choose from, and the Xbox One has a great Christmas line-up ahead,” says Keza MacDonald, editor of Kotaku UK. “Shops are starting to get aggressive about pricing, too, so you’ll inevitably get a better deal – and be able to pick up more games for less money – than the early adopters.”If you just can’t afford to spend £300 on a games machine though, there are plenty of beautiful, compelling experiences on Wii, PS3 and Xbox 360 that will keep you and your family entertained for a good while.And of course, the consoles don’t exist in a gaming vacuum ...Alternative view:“It’s worth considering making the jump to PC gaming,” says Oli Welsh, editor of Eurogamer. “It’s not much more expensive to get a console-equivalent machine, the games are cheaper, and you get all the big cross-platform releases and much, much more besides. The online service Steam –- which has a special mode for use on TVs and with console controllers - has a bigger, better library of games than either Xbox or PlayStation will ever have. It’s the most exciting platform in games right now.”Indeed, A new range of “living room” PCs has emerged, specifically intended as multimedia machines, which can be hooked up to your television to run all your video, live TV and gaming entertainment. They’re also designed to make owning, running and occasionally updating a home computer easier than ever. Look out for Valve’sSteam Machines, the AcerRevo Buildand Razer’sProject Christine.
Uber is coming under increasing pressure after Boris Johnson accused the taxi-hailing app of systematically breaking the law.In his weekly column for the Telegraph, the mayor of London said Uber’s mobile phone technology is effectively mimicking the act of hailing a taxi – a process that only black cabs can legally carry out.Johnson’s comments come as Transport for London (TfL) takes Uber to the high court over a separate issue to determinewhether the app breaks the law by effectively acting as a meter.Related:Transport for London could crack down on Uber in taxi consultationAnd Uber is already facing the threat of a major crackdown on its business practices in London after TfLlast week launched a public consultationto consider proposals including making passengers wait at least five minutes for a ride.Johnson, who chairs TfL, has been largely defensive over the issue of Uber’s impact on the black cab trade, arguing that the shift is the product of market forces and consumer choice.But in Monday’s column, he wrote: “The reason TfL is consulting on new regulations for minicabs is very simple: we need to uphold the law. At present that law is being systematically broken – or at least circumvented – by the use of the Uber app.”Johnson said he understood the indignation over TfL’s consultation and the arguments in favour of Uber - it creates jobs, is cheap and convenient.And he argued the black taxi trade has not been its “own most effective advocate”, being let down by the behaviour of a few cabbies,such as those who protested in City Hall, allegedly injuring a security guard.But he insists many Uber minicabs are breaking the law “because technology makes it so easy for it to be broken”.“You no longer need to see a vehicle to hail it,” he said. “Your phone will see it for you. In other words the app is allowing private hire vehicles to behave like black taxis: to be hailed, to ply for hire in the streets, to do exactly what the law says they are not supposed to do.”Johnson argued for a balance that allows the black cab trade and minicab apps to coexist.“I agree completely with the free marketeers: it is nuts to try to ban technology,” he wrote. “But until parliament has the guts to change the law we must uphold the existing and longstanding legal distinctions between black cabs and minicabs.”Related:Uber has challenged the taxi industry and it’s too late to apply the brakesThe high court hearing starts on Monday and is expected to conclude on Tuesday. Black-cab drivers argue the app’s calculation of fares constitutes metering and is therefore illegal. TfL believes the app is not considered a meter under current laws but has deferred a final decision on interpreting the law to the courts.Uber has launched a petition, which has so far attracted nearly 120,000 names, to support its fight against the TfL proposals. It says: “These rules make no sense.”An Uber spokesman said: “In the UK, Uber is fully licensed and regulated and abides by all private hire legislation. Uber’s model has been scrutinised not only by TfL, but by over 25 other regulators and found to be compliant.“These bureaucratic new rules will not improve your ride. They’re designed to address the concerns of black cab drivers, who feel under pressure from increased competition.“But the answer is to reduce the onerous regulations cabbies face today – not increase them for everyone else.”
The “sharing economy” is a meaningless term that was only coined in the first place because of the tech industry’s desire to pretend everything it does is new and groundbreaking.Now, almost a decade after it started seeing use, it’s worse than simply being meaningless: it’s actively obfuscatory, lumping together a hugely disparate bunch of companies, many of which push the definition to its limits, and the biggest examples of which have nothing to do with “sharing” at all.The term grew out of the open-source community, where coders contribute to programs released to the world free-of-charge. The push for a similar model to be applied to the real world dates back to the early 2000s, but it took the financial crisis for it to grow from a niche idea to one taken seriously.By the 2010s, the focus had narrowed from a nebulous attempt to bring the open source ethos out of the coding world to a more specific look at how to use technology to enable more efficient use of scarce resources. At the same time, the buzzwords had also stabilised, with a number of academic-sounding terms such as “commons-based peer production” (as coined by NYU law professor Yochai Benkler) to two main contenders: “the sharing economy”, and “collaborative consumption”.The time was ripe for both ideas to take off. With unemployment in the west still high, and ideas of “post-growth capitalism” floating in the ether, groups that could articulate an alternative view of the world were popular. And the archetypal collaborative consumption models were seemingly win-win. A typical analogy for the sort of model people wanted to build was focused on household tools: if you own a drill, you likely don’t use it 364 days of the year; why not let others use it in the meantime?In its purest sense, that is the sharing economy. But it very quickly ran into an issue: while some people act out of altruism, most don’t. My drill ismine. Why should I share it with you?Some sites, such as Freecycle, still focus on acting out of the goodness of one’s heart, but the success stories of the sharing economy solved the problem by looking to the old economy. And so “sharing” became “renting”. Even today,one report finds 20 companies in the sharing economywhose offering can be summed up as “you can borrow stuff you don’t want to buy”. Nine of them have a name beginning with “rent”.Once money started changing hands in earnest, business really started booming. In 2011, the same year Time magazine named the “sharing society” one of theTen Ideas That Will Change The World, AirBnB raised $120m in VC funding. The company was mentioned in Time’s piece, which still emphasised the feel-good backdrop to the story: “There’s a green element here, of course: sharing and renting more stuff means producing and wasting less stuff, which is good for the planet and even better for one’s self-image.”While renting out a spare room in a flat (or even renting out a flat) may be close enough to “sharing” to be hair-splitting, it’s a different case for hiring a driver to take you across a city. And yet Uber is one of the most famousexamples of the sharing economy in the world– and certainly the highest capitalised, worth well north of $50bn.The company’s defenders argue that it justifies that label because of the similarity to AirBnB: Uber drivers have an asset lying unused, which they want to monetise with the power of the internet. The difference, of course, is that an Uber driver’s labour is an integral part of the whole shebang. You aren’t renting their car: you’re renting their carand them.If that’s still not clear-cut enough, consider TaskRabbit, the last member ofthe holy trinity of the Sharing Economy. The company allows customers to hire temporary labour to cook, clean, assemble furniture or queue for the latest iPhone. It’s a far cry from “collaborative consumption”.Instead, the companies lumped together as examples of the sharing economy have come to be typified by something altogether different: a dependence on tenuous labour, particularly that provided by individuals working as third-party contractors rather than full employees.For that reason, I’ve been using another term to describe these companies: “gig economy”. It’s not as well-known as “sharing economy”, which means it sounds weird to some ears (“do you mean Uber only hires musicians?”). But it emphasises the unifying aspect is short-term, tenuous “gigs” – often more than one juggled at the same time.But there are other popular alternatives as well. In the US, “1099 economy” is often used, referring to the American tax code for independent contractors, while in the UK, similar emphasis is placed on “zero-hour contracts”: terms of employment which provide no fixed hours and don’t even guarantee work will be provided at all.Are those terms better term than “gig economy”? Is there a better phrase still? Let me know in the comments below.
It’s Monday.
Have you heard the story about the tip from the shoeshine boy, a Brit called James Pallot asks me on my last day at TechCrunch Disrupt. I have, I say, though later I Google it to get the facts straight.It’s attributed to Joseph Kennedy, paterfamilias of the Kennedy clan who, in 1929, was getting his shoes shined by a young boy who was also making confident predictions about which stocks would rise. For Kennedy, it was a moment of revelation. He sold his portfolio. Not long afterwards, Wall Street crashed and the world was plunged into the greatest depression ever seen. So a tip from the shoeshine boy is a sign that the bubble is about to burst. That the wave of confidence will finally crash upon the shore. That the jig is up.Pallot used to be the digital editorial director of Condé Nast in New York and now he has a startup. But then, we’re at the world’s biggest startup conference in San Francisco, a few miles down the road from Silicon Valley where the world’s greatest concentration of technology startups first started up.His company is in the booming field of VR, or virtual reality, which is to 2015 roughly what Rubik’s Cubes were to 1982, though with rather bigger potential consequences. Pallot claims it’s the logical next step for journalistic content. In 20 years’ time, you won’t be reading this on the page, I’ll probably be leading you by the hand through a 3D rendering of a virtual TechCrunch conference floor. Or, more likely, you’ll be leading yourself and I’ll be claiming jobseeker’s allowance.But anyway. In the meantime, Pallot asks me if I’ve heard of the tip from the shoeshine boy. I have, I say, and tell him it’s been on my mind. Because for three days, I’ve been hearing about “unicorns” – a Silicon Valley term for companies that have been valued at more than $1bn. When this usage was first coined, less than two years ago, there were 39 of them. Today, there are 147. Or as Matthew Wong, a senior analyst at CB Insights, tells me: “The funding is at levels that we haven’t seen since 2000.”As those with longer memories will recall, that was the year the dotcom bubble burst. It needs explaining because there are an awful lot of people at TechCrunch whose memories simply don’t go back that far: the typical startup founder is male and in his 20s. Back in 2000, Google was less than 18 months old and Facebook wasn’t even a glimmer in Mark Zuckerberg’s eye – he was still at high school. (At 31, he’s now practically Silicon Valley’s elder statesman.)Related:Five lessons Silicon Valley has for UK tech entrepreneursEverything has changed. And is changing at an ever-faster pace. Eight years ago, TechCrunch launched its Disrupt conference with 45 startups. This year, there are 5,000 of them. Over three days I talk to founders of companies from San Francisco and Texas and Uruguay and Beirut and Stockholm and Tel Aviv and Warsaw. There are apps for crowdfunded mortgages and cheaper divorces and better sex. There’s “Expedia for golf” and “Facebook for cars” and “Nest for water” and “Tinder for dogs”. There’s a virtual reality teddy bear, a device that claims it will be able to read your emotions via a contact lens in your eye and another that will automate your home cannabis farm (marijuana is a big deal in Silicon Valley right now). I miss the panel on nuclear fusion startups but they’re around.They’ve all paid upwards of $3,000 (£1,900) to be here and they’re all trying to attract the attention of Silicon Valley’s biggest beasts. The VCs – venture capitalists to you and me. The money guys.“How do you spot them?” I ask Peter Becronis, the founder of a realestatestartup called Owner’s Vault. “Oh, it’s easy,” he says. “They’re all men, older guys who are in jeans and brown boots and perhaps a blue jacket. Oh, and a good watch. They’re the ones who shuffle past you trying not to catch your eye.”It’s a long shot for the likes of Becronis to be here, but not a total pipe dream. Because hundreds of startups are being funded each month. Vast sums of money are changing hands. Crunchbase, TechCrunch’s sister site, lists the deals that are being done on a daily basis. On the day I write this, I check it and find 24 companies that have just received funding, including Kreditech, which got $92m (it uses “big data and complex machine-learning algorithms to credit score everyone worldwide”) and Medium, which received $57m (it’s a platform that has found another new business model that seems to involve not paying journalists).Every month the amount of money being invested in early-stage startups goes up. And every month, more and more people are starting to use the B-word. Bubble. The last time this amount of money was swilling around, we know how it ended. “Back then, a lot of websites launched but that’s all they were, websites,” Mike Butcher, TechCrunch’s editor-at-large, tells me. “Now in 2015, all those technologies that were predicted – AI, drones, VR – have all turned up. The innovation is real. And it just continues to get bigger and bigger. There are more VC firms here than you can poke a stick at.“Is it a bubble?” he asks and then answers the question himself, vividly, if not entirely clearly. “It depends. How many unicorns can you fit through the eye of a needle? Anyway, unicorns are over. It’s all about decacorns now. Companies that are worth tens of billions of dollars.”AOL’s takeover of Time Warner in 2000 was the largest merger in US corporate history at the time.Photograph: Suzanne Plunkett/APIn 2000 the bubble was in publicly listed companies – organisations like the then upstart AOL, which bought Time Warner for $164bn, the largest merger in America business history, and then most spectacular blow-up. Or in Britain,Lastminute.com, whose share price peaked at 511p before crashing to 80p a month later. Both companies survived, unlike many, but it was a long struggle back up for both of them. (In a neat bit of circularity,AOL bought TechCrunchalong the way.) In 2015, it’s private money flowing into companies that may or may not go public one day.The shoeshine boy wouldn’t be tipping stocks in 2015, but what would he be doing? I ask Ned Desmond, the chief operating officer of TechCrunch. He thinks for a moment. “He would probably be an Uber driver who has his own angel investment line,” he says.But James Pallot tops that. He’s flown in from JFK and had his shoes shined in the airport. “And the guy had a startup. I literally got a tip from the shoeshine boy! He was trying to find an investor for his national shoeshine franchise.” But then, in many ways, there has never been a better time to be a startup. Niko Bonatsos, a VC with General Catalyst Partners, tells me that the sheer number of companies at TechCrunch “speaks volumes about how the barriers to entry have been removed. It’s really easy to start a company. And lots of companies from other parts of the world see this as a lottery ticket. And for some of them, it will be. It’s the survival of the fittest. And the luckiest.”Pallot and his co-founder are currently “bootstrapping” their company, Emblematic Group, which is creating virtual reality news content. “Bootstrapping” is Silicon Valley jargon. It means getting by with what you’ve got. It’s how people have set up companies since the dawn of capitalism. You start a business with a bit of money you already have and you try to attract customers and build it from there.“Bootstrapping” is how you figure out if there’s a market and, if so, how you reach it. It’s also, like, totally 20th century. The reason 5,000 companies pay $3,000-plus to come to TechCrunch is because Silicon Valley has another model. People – strangers – will give you vast sums of cash to build your company into a global brand overnight. If you can deliver the killer pitch. The pitch that convinces the valley’s top VCs that you are the next Facebook, the next Uber, the next Airbnb.“It doesn’t work like this in the rest of the world,” Ned Desmond tells me. “In Indonesia or Turkey or wherever, normal business culture demands collateral and security. Venture investing has none of that. You are investing in potential.” You’re gambling, basically. Silicon Valley, in 2015, is a giant casino. And the bets are so large because the potential payoffs are so huge. The next Google has to start somewhere.So is it a bubble? “Everything is cyclical,” says Desmond. Does he remember the last crash? “I was there! I was in it. It was terrible. We had just launched a magazine,Business 2.0. Even the name sounds so cringeworthy now. We launched in May 2000 with a record number of advertisements. We had 150 ad pages. A year on, we had 15.”This is not exactly an answer, so I try again. Is it a bubble? “We published a graph showing the unicorns. It’s a hockey stick. It’s near vertical growth.”So, is it a bubble? “Some people say we are living through a period of history that is unprecedented. They say that everything has changed. That it’s different now.”So is it a bubble? “Look,” he says finally. “You can answer that question for yourself. Look at the graph. It’s just about common sense.”*****Out on the exhibition floor, it’s mayhem. Everyone is pitching everyone else. And it’s all being conducted at volume 11. Because if you have a big idea and you want to find a VC, it’s just possible that you might find one out there. I lived through the 2000 bubble and subsequent crash vicariously via a flatmate who got a job with a thrusting new website, and it’s probably my imagination, but there’s something of the atmosphere that I remember of the time: loud, overexcited twentysomethings who tended to leave a mess on the floor.A dozen or more countries have bought into the Silicon Valley dream and sponsored their companies to be here: there are pavilions representing Brazil, the Middle East, Uruguay, Taiwan, Norway, the Czech Republic. And the posters above the stands look like they’ve been produced by an automatic startup buzzword generator. “Digital innovation platform!” reads one. “Accelerate growth disruption” another. A third offers to “quantify your coding”.The first person I talk to – and that’s because he stops me in my tracks by holding an iPhone with a picture of an anchor on it right in my face – is Lev Moravtchik. He’s a 33-year-old from Israel who has a dating app – Diggidi – that he tries to convince me is going to be bigger than Tinder. Is this the dream? To start your own company? “No, never! Nothing is forcing me to ruin my life.”Is that the fear? That you’re ruining your life? “Of course! Do you know the figures? More than 90% of all startups fail.” So why are you here? “Israel is a startup nation. And Diggidi is different from anything else. It’s disruptive.” This is TechCrunch Disrupt. Of course it is. But how exactly? “Because it’s a dating revolution. Because it can’t be ignored.”The process of ‘disruption’ is supposed to describe how established firms such as IBM were overtaken by the likes of Microsoft.Photograph: Fabian Bimmer/APBut then, if there’s one thing that I learn, it’s that disrupting is to now what dropping out and tuning in was to the 1960s. Everyone’s disrupting. Or at least everyone thinks they are. The usage of the term was coined by Clayton Christensen, a professor at Harvard Business School, to describe how even massive, seemingly invincible companies like IBM can be displaced by scrappy little upstarts like (once upon a time) Microsoft. He called it the “technology mudslide hypothesis”. Or how some small new technological breakthrough can have huge world-changing consequences.And if I’m not convinced that Diggidi is the revolution the world has been waiting for – it takes me a good five minutes to understand how the anchor even comes into it – I also have no idea what revolution the world is waiting for. But then, as Tod Francis, a Silicon Valley VC with the firm Shasta Ventures, tells me, often the world has no idea either. Until it arrives. “It’s why you’ve got to keep an open mind. Think about what billion-dollar companies looked like at this stage. Most of the really big ideas were easy to dismiss. Nobody thought sleeping on people’s couches was some amazing business plan, but look at Airbnb. Look at FitBit – did anyone really need that? No, but people bought it. We see crazy ideas in action every day. Often they are the ones that are accepted.”I meet him on the way into the startup “battlefield”. It’s the heart of TechCrunch, where 25 companies take to the stage and pitch their hearts out to a panel of VCs who make the judges onDragons’ Denlook like kindergarten teachers. It’s a big deal. Dropbox was a battlefield contender, as was Yammer (sold to Microsoft for $1.2bn), and Mint.Everyone knows it’s a bubble. That doesn’t mean a lot of people won’t make a lot of money. It’s like musical chairsAnd it’s incredibly competitive. More than 950 startups applied and yet, to the outsider, it’s hard to quite see how the ones that got through, got through. There’s a company that is looking to change the world through its robotic nail-art machine. There’s a “personalised content relevancy platform”. And an app that will deliver food for your kids’ lunchboxes. (You can’t move in Silicon Valley for delivery apps these days. Or, as one tech editor summarised the sector to me, “twentysomething men who have set up companies to provide things their mother used to do for them.”) The odds are that one of them will be the next unicorn, but I’m having a hard time spotting which, not least because the man sitting next to me is offering his own running commentary.“EasyPaint?” he says, as we watch a presentation for an app that’s going to revolutionise the painting and decorating industry. “EasyDud more like. People will use it once then take the guy’s number and call him directly.” Michael, who doesn’t want his full name in this article, works for a Japanese technology company and is at TechCrunch to make recommendations for early-stage startups that he thinks his company should acquire. He practically guffaws when I ask him if it’s a bubble.“Of course it’s a bubble. Everyone knows it’s a bubble. Which doesn’t mean that a lot of people won’t make a lot of money. It’s like musical chairs. The question is not if it’s a bubble, but will it remain long enough for us to get in on it? The question is: am I too late?“Look at how many companies are cash-negative. Twitter is still cash-negative. Even Uber is cash-negative. Silicon Valley is a hype machine. That’s how it works. And sometimes if there’s enough hype, it pays off. And sometimes it doesn’t. It’s like when you go house-hunting and the real estate agent doesn’t say, ‘Look at how great the space is. Look at how great the area is.’ They say, ‘If you don’t buy now, it’ll be twice the price in six months’ time.’ It doesn’t reflect true value. It’s just a sort of herd mentality.”And he gives me the example of San Francisco’s first gold rush, the huge influx of money in 1849 that created large swaths of the Victorian city that still stands today. “People thought prices would go up and up and up and that eventually they would fill in the bay and build there. People were buying plots of land beneath the ocean because they thought that in the future prices would rise. It’s exactly the same as we’re seeing today.”Rocketing property prices have caused tension in San Francisco between wealthy tech staff – who are often driven by bus from downtown areas to their places of work – and longer-established residents.Photograph: John Orvis/Demotix/CorbisIt’s an apposite example because San Francisco is in the grip of a property boom that makes London’s look almost sane and reasonable by comparison. The average rent on a one-bed apartment has just hit $3,500 (£2,300) a month, and that’s if you can find one. The entire city is pinched. I can’t find a single hotel room for under $350 and so rent a room in someone’s house via Airbnb, and even that is $150 a night.The founders of a Parisian startup, Aircall, tell me they’ve come to look for funding. “We are four guys so we thought, OK, we will share an apartment and it is $10,000 a month! We were like, wow!” They still came though. “But we left the tech team in France. Europe is like the third world to Silicon Valley now.” Mike Butcher tells me that “Silicon Valley isn’t a place any more. It’s a state of mind. You can be in Ukraine or Berlin or wherever.”You can. But if you want to be where the money is, you still want to be here. And it’s here in San Francisco that the tectonics of the tech industry are smashing up against those of the real world, a San Andreas-sized faultline rumbling deep beneath the ground. “Silicon Valley” used to be a chain of dormitory towns a commuter train ride away from San Francisco where the likes of Google and Apple have their campuses. But increasingly, it’s moving to San Francisco itself. Everyone wants to be downtown, where the bars and hipster cafes are. But the more attractive the city becomes to startups, the more cripplingly expensive it is for everyone else.The city that gave birth to the counterculture, that stuck it to the Man, that is still home to organic co-ops and vegan co-living spaces, is right in the path of the Great Disruption – a storm whipped up and driven by the most relentless form of capitalism ever witnessed.Tim Fernando, 31-year-old co-founder of an Oxford-based startup, Esplorio, explains why they’re staying in Oxford. “A software engineer will [cost us] $120,000 here, whereas in Oxford, it’s more like £26,000.” And yet, it’s hard to ignore the benefits that just being here confers. “We’d literally just arrived and were sitting in a coffee shop and it turned out that the woman sitting opposite us was a director of marketing at Apple. That kind of thing just doesn’t happen in Britain.”I rather like Esplorio. It uses data from your phone to create an automated travelogue of where you’ve been, and they tell me they’ve had $300,000 in early-stage funding.“Well done, I say. “That’s sounds like a lot.” “Does it?” says Fernando and he sounds slightly mournful. “Not in Silicon Valley terms it’s not.”And it’s true, it’s not. And it’s as useful a measure as any of how Silicon Valley has parted ways with reality. Or at least the reality that most of us know; a world where $300,000 remains quite a lot of money. Silicon Valley, on the other hand, is a place where billion-dollar companies are being created almost overnight. Six years ago, Uber didn’t exist. In its last round of funding, it raised $1bn in capital from private investors, giving it a supposed value of $50bn. It’s a penta-decacorn. Less a mythical creature, some might argue, more a Frankenstein monster.But Silicon Valley’s primacy remains indisputable. “Look at how many world-changing technologies have been created within a few miles of here,” Sam Altman, the president of Y Combinator, tells me. “You’re using an iPhone, which was invented 25 minutes away. You’re staying in an Airbnb, which was invented five minutes from here. You’re probably using Twitter, which was dreamed up around the corner. It’s incredible how concentrated the real innovation has been. How much has come out of this one area.”Y Combinator is probably the most famous of Silicon Valley’s seed funds. It runs a three-month programme that nurtures startups and eventually helps launch them into the world. Dropbox, Airbnb and Reddit all began life there. “Eight thousand companies applied for the last batch,” says Altman. “And we have two batches a year.”There’s so much money in Silicon Valley at the moment, he says, because interest rates are so low and “startups have been one of the few asset classes that have generated real growth”.And the reason there are so many unicorns is that VCs bet big or they go home. He says it doesn’t matter if there’s a bubble or not, good companies will still make it whatever, an argument that echoes Bill Gates’s remarks from last year. He claimed that half the companies being created in Silicon Valley were “silly” and two thirds of them would fail. “But the dozen or so ideas that emerge out of that are going to be really important.”Already “unicorpses” have started to appear.Groupon’s value is dropping like a stone. It’s being predicted that Dropbox, once valued at $10bn, will be “the first dead decacorn”. On the TechCrunch stage, people try not to say the “bubble” word. They say there is “frothiness”. That there is “a lot of capital that is seeking returns”. That “valuations are a bit robust”.Elsewhere, people are not so restrained. Earlier this year, Bill Gurley, a partner at Benchmark, a big Silicon Valley venture firm, sent out a series of tweetswarning of a bubble, including this one: “Arguing we aren’t in a bubble because it’s not as bad as 1999 is like saying that Kim Jong-Un is fine because he’s not as bad as Hitler.”When Airbnb first pitched their idea at me, that you’d stay on an airbed in a stranger’s house, I was not excitedMarcus HawkinsOut on the exhibition floor, I meet Marcus Hawkins, another Brit. He’s from Norfolk and has successfully run his own software company for a decade or so but he recently set up a new company, Patrolo, a business-to-business enterprise offering a website mistake-correction service. What are you disrupting, I ask him. He thinks for a moment. “King’s Lynn.”We swap other bits of jargon we’ve picked up. Have you pivoted, I say, a piece of startup-ese I’d learned five minutes earlier. It means to change your business strategy rapidly. “I’ve pivoted so many times I’m practically facing backwards,” he says. “But it’s OK. I have a lot of runway left.” Which is the amount of time a startup has before the money runs out, he explains.With the flights and so on, it was a £6,000 gamble to come, he says, “but I know everyone says this. But what we’re offering is unique.”And unique is what Sam Altman tells me is what investors want. They want unique. Quirky. Crazy. And he cites the Airbnb example that everyone cites, though in fairness he was actually there at the time. “When Airbnb first pitched their idea at me, that you’d stay on an airbed in a stranger’s house, I was not excited at all by that. Only halfway through did they develop the idea of renting the whole apartment and then I got excited. If the ideas aren’t crazy enough, the industry is not taking enough risk.”It’s something you’d be hard-pushed to say of some of the startups here. I inspect a smart dog bowl aimed at preventing your dog from overeating, a wristband that will tell a woman precisely when she’s at her most fertile, and a robotic cooking machine that has a lot of parts that look like they’d need washing up.Even rapper Snoop Dogg is attempting to establish a tech startup – with the vital ingredient of cannabis.Photograph: Tim Mosenfelder/Getty ImagesAnd any number of cannabis-related businesses. Since marijuana was made legal in four states, the tech industry has rushed into the space. “There’s going to be a marijuana unicorn,” a man from a website called Investing in Cannabis tells me. “It’s hotter than hot right now. Everyone’s placing their bets.” A point that is proven when Snoop Dogg takes to the stage to announce his cannabis startup,Merry Jane(a lifestyle media site aimed at cannabis users).The inventiveness of the hardware and ingenuity of the software and chutzpah of everyone is quite mind-boggling. There are so many ideas and so much energy and hard work and, more often than not, hard-earned cash being invested in them. If you have come from Bratislava, you’ll have put your own money into the business, a Slovak startup founder called Lukas Alner tells me. “Whereas here, they all graduate from Stanford and Harvard and then go and work in the same places. If they want to make a contact or raise money, they just pick up the phone. It’s very hard to break into that as an outsider. They are pack animals.”We all love to talk about disruption. But if you are doing something disruptive, people are getting hurtVinod KhoslaAnd then there’s the small matter of what it may all mean one day not long from now. Where all this innovation will lead – a question I contemplate when a founder from Hong Kong called Henry Hu shows me Cafe X, a robotic coffee machine which, he claims, makes perfect artisanal cappuccino.So you’re disrupting baristas? “No,” he says. “A barista will design the programme which the machine will copy. So, we are extending the skills of talented baristas to a lot more people.”Yadda, yadda, yadda. A Dublin-based startup shows me impressive software that uses “machine creativity” to create graphic art. “Sixty one per cent of the cost of video games is the artwork,” the co-founder, Eric Risser, tells me. “We’re disrupting that.”So you’re putting artists out of work? “No, we’re enabling video-games companies to create more and better games.”*****The truth is, it’s a dog-eat-dog world out there. Disrupt or be disrupted. As Vinod Khosla, a somewhat irascible billionaire and head of a leading venture capital firm reminds the audience: “We all love to talk about disruption. But if you are doing something disruptive, people are getting hurt. Revolutions are hard on people. People get hurt.”It’s what is forgotten in all of this. If it is a bubble, and if it bursts, the VCs will be OK, of course they will. They’re already rich. It’ll be the little people who will suffer. The 1,100 employees of Groupon who just lost their jobs will be a tiny taste of the pain to come. The ripple of potential consequences vast and as yet unknowable.And if it isn’t a bubble, if the world really has changed, and economic laws too, and everything keeps going up and up and up, it’s still the little people who’ll suffer. The great swaths of us whose services will no longer be required in a coming era that is just around the corner. In the past 18 months, all of us who live in cities around the world have watched as taxi drivers have protested and lost their livelihoods and Uber has swept in and cleaned up, taking 20% of every fare along the way. Don’t think this is going to stop at taxis – where Uber is going to end up is more or less anyone’s guess. Last month I met the head of Carnegie Mellon University’s robotics faculty, whose entire department has just been poached by the firm. Including him.First they came for the booksellers and I did not speak out because I was not a bookseller. Next they came for the taxi drivers etc etc. Then baristas, divorce lawyers, artists, journalists… there are not going to be an awful lot of jobs of any description left. How any of us are going to be earning a living in 20 years’ time, in 10 years’ time, is something that most of us aren’t thinking about. In this light, building a startup that has a 90% chance of failure looks like a pretty smart option.“I think there is going to be massive job destruction in the next 10 to 20 years,” says Sam Altman. “I think we are already seeing it. Technology increases wealth but it also concentrates it. There’s a huge coming threat to all of us.”Companies in Silicon Valley think differently from the rest of us. Their ambition is of a different order. Their rate of growth is like nothing we’ve ever seen before. And it’s in San Francisco, where technology meets the real world, that we’re starting to see the beginnings of what this clash of civilisations will look like. Or as Altman puts it: “If founders in San Francisco can build a new $50bn company in five years but the city can’t approve a single new housing development in that time, that’s a mismatch.”It’s all a mismatch. We and the great tech world we’re building. But then I probably would say that. My industry is just one of hundreds in the throes of the Great Disruption. Yours too, possibly. Even if you haven’t realised it yet. It might not just be startups that need to learn to pivot.
‘I think women are about to take over tech’Graceann BennettPlsPlsMeGraceann Bennett of PlsPlsMe at TechCrunch Disrupt.Photograph: Will Whipple/Observer“I was raised Mormon and was a virgin mom and bride and I just didn’t know how to discuss sex. Ten years into the marriage we tried to fix it but there just wasn’t the right thing. The sex therapist was too clinical,Cosmowas too cheesy.“PlsPlsMe is going to enable couples to talk about intimacy in a fun, playful way. We’re launching an app but it’s going to be much more than that. I was a brand strategist with Ogilvy &amp; Mather working on some of the world’s biggest brands and I’m bringing everything I know to PlsPlsMe. I always thought my husband should automatically know how to turn me on. It’s a really cruel and unusual punishment that you expect men to be able to blow your mind sexually without any user instructions. I think women are going to take over the tech sphere. It’s not really about technology. It’s about using technology in inventive ways that change human dynamics. It’s all the stuff that women are really good at. I almost feel sorry for the guys.”‘I’ve had to hone my pitch to about eight seconds’Steve Pearce, Marcus Hawkins, Tom Howkinspatrolo.comThe Patrolo team at TechCrunch Disrupt.Photograph: Will Whipple/ObserverMarcus: “I’ve met a few venture capitalists but it’s pretty brutal. I’ve had to hone down my pitch to about eight seconds. We’re bootstrapping at the moment. Do you know that term? It’s quite funny all the jargon. We’ve got a lot of ‘runway’ so we’re quite confident. It means the amount of time a startup has before you run out of money.“We’re based in King’s Lynn and Tom is my son, he’s the chief operating officer. We have a web development agency - Binary Drive - but I had the idea for this business and I know everyone says their idea is unique but ours really is. It’s a website-testing service that ensures business sites don’t have any functionality issues.“It’s cost £6,000 to come to TechCrunch including flights and so on, so it feels like a bit of a gamble, but we’ve signed up a bunch of people and I do feel like it’s been worth it. We’ve had proof of concept. We know there’s a market there.”‘The idea came when I took my dog to the vet’Hilary Jensen Wade, Nahid AlamObedog.comHilary Jensen Wade and Nahid Alam of Obe.dog at TechCrunch Disrupt.Photograph: Will Whipple/Observer“I worked for Google in product management and marketing before this,” says Jensen Wade. “The idea came when I took my dog, DJ, to the vet and he told me he needed to lose 10 pounds. I hadn’t realised he was overweight and it turns out a lot of owners don’t - more than half the dogs in America are obese. I wanted to find a way to manage a dog’s weight loss gradually. Our smart dog bowl shows you exactly how to feed and re-orders the food online.Alam says: “I’m a senior design engineer and it’s still quite rare to have a woman in a senior technical position. I’ve been to hackathons where I’m the only woman in the room. We had $200,000 from an investor and are planning to crowdfund online. It’s very exciting for me to design a product and see it through every stage to the end.”‘We are going to revolutionise video games’Eric Risser, Neal O’GormanArtomatixEric Risser and Neal O’Gorman of Artomatix at TechCrunch Disrupt.Photograph: Will Whipple/ObserverRisser: “I did my PhD at Trinity College, Dublin, in this very obscure field of texture synthesis and have written a program that uses machine learning and computer vision to produce ‘machine creativity’. If you feed various inputs into it - for example, a zombie face - it will create endless, unique, completely new variants of it.“Machine creativity has all sorts of possible applications but we’re initially focusing on the $80bn video game industry. Art takes 61% of the budget and a game such asGrand Theft Autotook five years to make. Artomatix will revolutionise that.”O’Gorman: “I’m what you call a serial entrepreneur. This is my third company. I launched my first one in 2000 right as the bubble burst. It took 10 years to come back from that. There were huge challenges in raising money. The development team will stay in Ireland but we need a presence in Silicon Valley, that’s the way it works.”‘The cannabis industry is really taking off’Andrew Katz, Ben Curren, Trae RobrockGreen BitsAndrew Katz, Ben Curren and Trade Robrock of cannabis tech startup Green Bits at TechCrunch Disrupt.Photograph: Will Whipple/ObserverRobrock: “Ben had already set up and sold two other companies and we were looking at new ideas. We looked at drone photography, all sorts of things. But the cannabis industry is really taking off. By 2020, it’s estimated to be worth $8bn in retail sales. It’s recreationally legal in four states and medically in 26 but it’s spreading more quickly than anyone predicted.“The legislation is very complicated though and that’s where Green Bits comes in. It’s a point-of-sale system that tracks every plant as required by federal leglislation.“People do sometimes think that we’re a bunch of potheads, or that our customers are, but they couldn’t be more wrong.”Curren: “We’ve just come second in TechCrunch’s startup battlefield, which is a pretty big deal. There’s still stigma around the cannabis industry. None of the big VCs has invested yet but they will. It’s too big to ignore. It’s like the end of prohibition. We’re looking for $10m. Our cash flow is already good.“I’m really competitive and I want Green Bits to be the first company that a big venture capital makes a significant investment in. It would be a real landmark moment for the whole industry.”
NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden arrived on Twitter last week. Within half an hour of his@Snowdenaccount launching, he’d beaten the 72,000 followers amassed by the only feed Snowden himself is following - that of the National Security Agency itself. He’s currently on 1.2m and rising, while his first Tweet was, “Can you hear me now?” – a jingle used by US telecoms giant Verizon in television ads. He’s right up there with our top 10 Twitter debuts…Celebrity trailblazer:@apluskActor Ashton Kutcher was one of the early Twitter celebs. In 2009, he opened with “dropping my first Tweet” and three months later, became the first to hit 1 million followers. He went onOprahthe same week to help Winfrey post her own debut: “HI TWITTERS. THANK YOU FOR A WARM WELCOME. FEELING REALLY 21st CENTURY.” Mum, turn your caps lock off.Shortest, sweetest greeting:@BigBirdThe 8ft 2in Sesame Street resident was a bird of few words, opening in February with: “Tweet?”Most confused debut:@snookiJersey Shorereality numpty Nicole “Snooki” LaValle’s first tweet back in 2009 was typically hapless: “idk wtf im doing”.Most excited world leader:@POTUSHe and the White House already had accounts but Obama wasn’t given a presidential account until May and seemed chuffed: “Hello, Twitter. It’s Barack. Really! Six years in, they’re finally giving me my own account.”Earliest overshare:@robdelaneyHe found fame as “the funniest comedian on Twitter” but theCatastrophestar’s first missive in 2009 was: “I’m about to go onstage in Minneapolis. After I finish my tuna melt and go pee.” See also @DannyDeVito “I don’t really get this site or how it works. My nuts are on fire.”Most nail-biting start:@lordemusicThe Kiwi singer-songwriter joined up in 2012 and opened with: “i think my fingernails are too short to be a member of the twittersphere.” Her nails now have their own spoof account, obviously.Most reluctant tweeter:@DrakeThe Canadian hip-hop star started in 2009 with a weary sigh of: “Fine… you got me.” Rivalled by comic book royalty @TheRealStanLee a few months later: “I just signed on to Twitter today. Don’t want it or need it, but don’t wanna be out of the action!”Sweariest opening salvo:@SamuelLJacksonHe dropped plentiful F-bombs inPulp Fictionand life imitated art when the actor opened his account in 2011: “Can-a muh fukkasay fuck on here?”Fastest follower-gathering:@Caitlyn_JennerIn June, the reality star broke all records by gathering 1 million followers in a mere four hours. Her first tweet? A pic of that “Call me Caitlyn”Vanity Faircover, followed by: “I’m so happy after such a long struggle to be living my true self.”Most incomprehensible opening lines:@LilTunechiAs Louisiana rapper Lil Wayne so sagely opined in 2010: “im super new to this twitter shit but wudup tho !..follow me biot¢h…wudup mak…happy bday LO...8 days of freedom..ym”. Riiiiight.
Uber is not perfect. It is important to make that point before analysing Transport for London’s attempts to curtail its expansion. The taxi app has not done enough to guarantee the safety of its passengers or stop its prices surging when cities face unique events. On a lighter note, its drivers’ obsession with rigidly following their satnavs can be hugely irritating when that means flying over speed bumps and avoiding traffic-free routes that as a local resident you know are quicker.However, this not an excuse for TfL’s ham-fisted attempt to protect the status quo. The organisation has launched a consultation on plans to overhaul the private-hire car market in London. The proposals include an interval of at least five minutes between booking a car and the start of a journey, a requirement for drivers to pass an English-language test and a map-reading assessment. Taxi firms may also have to operate a landline telephone service and accept bookings up to seven days in advance.You might conclude that these proposals are aimed at curbing Uber and protecting black-cab drivers. Indeed, one of the few groups that has backed the consultation is the Licensed Taxi Drivers Association. However, TfL says the proposals are in the interest of public safety and it is no friend of the black cabbies. Last month, Boris Johnson, even described opponents of Uber as luddites.London, of course, is not the only city in the world to try to restrict Uber or even ban it outright. But, as with the other moves around the world, the TfL plan smells of an attempt to turn back the clock. Users of Uber have already expressed their outrage, with more than 100,000 people signing a petition opposing TfL’s plans.Once you give people access to something new, it is difficult to rescind it. Transport is actually one of the few industrial sectors yet to be touched by the online revolution. High-street retailers would dearly love to ban Amazon for online orders to only be delivered after a week, but that is not going to happen.In the film ofJurassic Park, Jeff Goldblum reacts incredulously to the scientists’ plan to stop the dinosaurs breeding and getting out of control. “Life finds a way,” he says. That is something TfL and London’s cabbies should bear in mind. While holding Uber to higher standards is welcome, deliberately attempting to suppress its unique selling point is not.London’s black cabs, their drivers, and the “knowledge” test they have to pass to become accredited are wonderful traditions. However, the world has moved on and so should they. If black cabs want to compete with Uber then they need to lower their prices and improve their service. Sadly, satnavs have made the knowledge less valuable.There are concerns that the growth of Uber will flood London’s roads with extra cars. But the rise of the so-called “sharing economy”, which also includes holiday rent website Airbnb, should ultimately lead to a more efficient use of resources.One of the most frustrating posters in the capital at the moment is one by TfL stations that states: “We don’t make a profit because we reinvest all our income to run and improve your services.” The undertone is that it is a good guy and profits are bad.Does this somehow make it OK to award TfL executives lucrative pay deals or impose expensive fares on commuters?Even if does it not make profits in the traditional sense, more than 400 TfL executives earn more than £100,000 a year, as they benefit from the dominance of the organisation in London.Now that Uber has come along, it poses an uncomfortable threat to the establishment. Ultimately, all sides can make themselves stronger and improve travelling around London for millions of people by challenging each other.But as the “sharing economy” grows, expect this debate to be repeated many times.Hooray for UK’s overdue rise, but beware bosses wielding knivesMorrisons, Lidl and Ikea are all taking George Osborne’s new national living wage as a jumping-off point for even bigger pay awards next year. The living wage of £7.20 an hour will take effect from April, boosting the basic hourly rate for over-25 by 50p from the current minimum wage. Morrisons will increase pay for90,000 shop floor staff of all ages, not just over-25s, to £8.20 an hour, and do it from March, not April. This amounts to a hefty 20% increase from the retailer’s current £6.83 minimum.Lidl said that from next month, 9,000 UK workerswould receive at least £8.20 an hour in England, Scotland and Wales, and £9.35 in London. Ikea was less generous, though it will still pay more than the new minimum.This all adds up to a bumper rise for Britain’s lowest-paid. Three cheers for Osborne, one might say. But the labour market cannot be fixed overnight by Treasury diktats. Gordon Brown understood this when he first introduced the minimum wage. There will, for example, be job losses. The Office for Budget Responsibility predicts that 60,000 people will lose their jobs as employers cope with higher pay by cutting staff numbers.Some young people, excluded from the living wage, will seek other ways to occupy their time, which will bring down the UK’s high labour market participation rate. Some may opt to stay in education, which would appear beneficial, unless the UK finds itself in the same fix as France, where many spend a decade or more gaining post-A-level qualifications – at huge cost to the state – before entering the job market.A plan to boost apprenticeshipsmight address this, but a levy on businesses to pay for it is facing resistance from big employer groups who worry that quality training will be sacrificed in the pursuit of numbers.Unless employers are persuaded of the need for higher pay, they may well compensate by taking a scythe to other forms of pay, pensions and training budgets. It’s vital that Osborne recognises that.Who needs people’s QE?Many have scoffed at Jeremy Corbyn’s idea for people’s QE – a variant of the quantitative easing that the Bank of England has been pursuing since the financial crisis. Corbyn aimed to tackle the criticism of electronic-money printing – that it goes straight to the banks and disappears without trace – by suggesting that the money should be directed to infrastructure projects.Dangerous, say the naysayers, because people’s QE would destabilise political discipline over deficits and public spending. Yet the payment protection insurance mis-selling scandal is its own variant of people’s QE. Some £20bn has come out of the coffers of the banks and into the pockets of 10 million people wrongly sold these insurance products. The car industry has admitted to having a boost from the payments and other sectors have no doubt also been bolstered by the extra spending power. This is a form of QE that has come straight from the financial sector and very much left its mark on the economy.
Lego DimensionsPS3, PS4, Wii U, Xbox 360, Xbox One, Warner Bros., cert: 7★★★★Gamers familiar withSkylanderswill be instantly at home with the “toys to life” format ofLego Dimensions. For everyone else, here special real-world Lego models can be placed on a pedestal, appearing moments later in the game as interactive characters and vehicles. As with developer TT Games’ previous Lego titles,Dimensionsfocuses on puzzle-solving and light combat in a world built from the plastic bricks. An emphasis on blending existing licensed worlds sees locales and characters fromBatman, The SimpsonsandThe Wizard of Ozamong othersinterwoven with real grace and plenty of wit.WhereDimensionsexcels, however, is in playing to Lego’s strengths. The real Lego sets can be rebuilt to reflect changes and progress in-game, resulting in a spellbinding merging of the physical and digital. Additional sets, meanwhile, add quality new models and in-game content. But they don’t come cheap, and the game’s habit of suggesting introducing extra models is almost certain to irk some parents while leaving players longing for more.WFAnki OverdriveiOS, Android, Anki, cert: 9★★★★★‘A fine successor to a great debut’: Anki Overdrive.Moving on from the pleasingly original concept showcased in last year’sScalextric-styleAnki Drive,Overdrivebrings snap-together track, new cars and game modes to the franchise in which real-life vehicles automatically steer themselves around the slot-less track as competitors use the app to hit the perfect racing line, control speed and trigger virtual laser fire, EMP blasts or drop mines. Because the cars are powered, the track can be flexed up and down, around furniture or even used outside. The app also enables cars to be upgraded and customised for the next race, while the play modes, including King of the Hill, Battleand Time Trial, underlineAnki’s gaming rather than simulation aspirations.The starter kit, it should be noted, isn’t cheap at £149.99, but offers eight tracks and two cars. Additional cars, of which four can be raced at a time, are £49.99 each, but last year’sAnki Drivevehicles are also compatible. Masterfully combining physical and virtual racing toys to create a highly enjoyable and entirely new experience,Overdriveis a fine successor to a great debut.ARFifa 16PS4, PS3, Xbox One, 360, PC, EA, cert: 3★★★★‘Cerebral passing is encouraged’: Fifa 16.Photograph: PRFollowing on fromPro Evolution Soccer’s warm-up act last week,Fifa 16arrives on the scene, with the defending champion facing a tougher test than in recent years. There are incremental improvements, but the obsession with the superficial endures, the build-up to a match resembling Sky Sports more than ever. There’s an added physicality to the players this time, rendering pace less of a killer and giving defenders greater options for easing attackers off the ball. Cerebral passing is encouraged, too, coming to the fore in the women’s game, which is represented by 12 teams.The other big addition is that of a draft mode to the increasingly popular Ultimate Team. Rather than spending months building a squad, you can dive right in with players, draft a quality group and take on four increasingly difficult challenges, with big rewards. But the scarcity of goals at higher levels will not be to everyone’s taste, and the endless replays still frustrate, meaning for the first time in a whileFifaisn’t a clear winner on the virtual pitch.TM
Price: £17,199Engine: 1,330ccBHP: 115Gears: 6-speed autoTop speed: 110mphRange: 220 milesCommon sense tells you that if you build a vehicle that’s a weird amalgam of all the worst aspects of a motorbike and marry them with all the inconveniences of a small car, you end up with a useless mongrel. You’ll have an open-sided three-wheeler with no roof, no doors, no windscreen and no seatbelts. You’ll get cold and wet yet you can’t slalom through traffic. You won’t be able to park it in that tight space outside your flat and you can’t fill the boot with a big family shop. What common sense doesn’t tell you is that theSpyder F3 Sis about as much fun as you can have on your own, in public and with the lights on. For some reason what makes no sense on paper makes total sense in the flesh.TheSpyder F3 Sis the latest trike from Can-Am. The company is a subsidiary of Bombardier, which is a world leader in building things that put a big grin on your face. It makes Ski-Doos and Sea-Doos, and a host of all-terrain vehicles which look likeMad Maxstunt vehicles. The Spyder has been with us for a few years now. Can-Am, in a canny move, gave the first one it built toJay Leno. Last month it manufactured its 100,000th – and it gave that one to him, too.Rear view: the cruiser is both stable and comfortable.Most motorised trikes have two wheels at the back and one at the front. They’re a danger physically, as they have a tendency to topple over, while at the same time delivering a body blow to your sense of self-esteem. The Spyder, however, has a unique Y-shaped footprint: its two wheels are at the front. This makes it stable and incredibly comfortable to ride. It has anti-lock brakes and traction control as well as anti-roll technology. You can plug in your iPod and TomTom, and it has a neat digital dash. In America Can-Am showrooms are popping up next to Harley-Davidson dealers in an attempt to lure diehard bikers off their hogs. They won’t be disappointed. The Spyder can be personalised and has customised peg and handlebar positions to suit your riding style. Greener-minded Hell’s Angels may also like its Eco-mode system, which improves fuel economy. They’ll all like the power and torque they get from the liquid-cooled Rotax 1330 ACE engine. By law you are permitted to ride the trike without a helmet (or in fact a mullet), but obviously you’d be nuts to risk it.Riding the Spyder is like sitting on a mobile throne. It’s like an ultra convertible. Unsurprisingly it attracts endless attention. One enthusiastic admirer drove alongside and filmed me on his phone. He then jumped out to show me his footage when I stopped at the lights. “It’sSpyder Man: The Movie,” I joked. But he didn’t get it…Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter at@MartinLove166
Everyone hates mobile ads – even advertisers.Related:Can publishers stop the ad blocking wave?In the midst of the advertising industry’s annual summit in New York last week, agency directors, media buyers and other ad-world professionals were up in arms about ad-blocking software expanding and improving beyond their capability to defeat it. Many admitted they have no one to blame but themselves.As executives prepared to descend on Manhattan for Advertising Week, there was one topic of conversation: Apple had just made ad-blocking mainstream. The company’s shiny new mobile operating system, iOS 9, allows anyone using an iPhone to cut out ads, taking a bite out of the $31.9bn mobile ad market, not long ago touted as the savior of the publishing industry.But don’t shoot the message-blockers, said Constantine Kamaras, chairman of the board of the Interactive Advertising Bureau (IAB) Europe. They aren’t the real problem.“The broader problem is, in many ways, that in some cases digital advertising has not put at the forefront the fundamental truth that the user experience is paramount,” Kamaras said.“And no advertising that does not respect the user experience, be it in terms of content, in terms of design and creative, or in terms of device functionality is going to work. It’s bad advertising.”Apple’s move is interpreted by many in the industry as a potshot at Google, which is the largest single player in the global digital advertising business and reapedsome $5bn last yearfrom the digital ad market, according to then-CEO Larry Page. (Page now runs Google’s holding company,Alphabet.)But blocking “takes the publishing experience out of publishers’ hands” said Scott Cunningham, IAB senior vice-president of tech and ad operations, adding that it is likely to hurt fledgling e-businesses. Cunningham, both in conversation and at a press conference last week, likened ad blocking to hostage-taking, calling the practice of approving some ads and not others hypocritical.He is not alone – many in the industry are furious. There have even beenlawsuits.That doesn’t change the fact that most consumers loathe seeing ads on their phones. A recent AOL survey found that 75% of online video ad viewers complained about seeing the same ads over and over, 62% were upset that there were so many ads, and nearly half thought the ads went on too long. In every category, respondents were angrier about mobile than tablet or desktop ads.But even the makers of ad-blockers don’t think software that keeps out all advertising is a good solution. Marco Arment, the programmer behind Apple’s No1 ad blocker, Peace, pulled his product after a few days at the top of the charts.“Ad blockers come with an important asterisk: while they do benefit a ton of people in major ways, they also hurt some, including many who don’t deserve the hit,” Armentwrote.Some industry observers, including Google’s Sridhar Ramaswamy, have said the ad industry won’t ultimately suffer but publishers – especially small ones – will.“All the journalism that we love is supported pretty heavily by advertising,” Ramaswamy said at an Advertising Week session. “The real problem is that ad blockers throw out the baby with the bathwater. They remove the diversity that has enriched all of our lives.”And ultimately, consumers and advertisers may have a common enemy in “badvertising”: some of it is virus-ridden and dangerous to both to the consumer and the client.One of Cunningham’s plans to thwart blockers was to increase security for advertisers so that lists of ad networks could be made harder for ad blockers to download; that in turn could help cut back on rampant “click fraud”, in which viruses tell advertisers who pay by the click that their ads have been used many more times than they actually have.That still doesn’t solve the PR problem. Nobody has a favorite web ad and, more critically, digital advertising reliant on viewer profiles has helped to lead the “big data” boom, resulting in so much valuable information housed in so many places that breaches likethe recent, disastrous hackof data giant Experian have become commonplace.Apple’s public objection – echoed by many consumers – to the big-data-fuelled ad model is,in CEO Tim Cook’s words, that “you’re not the customer. You’re the product.”Google doesn’t break out details on its mobile advertising dollars, but its falling cost-per-click (down 3% year-over-year last quarter and 7% the quarter before) seems to indicate a less robust mobile market share and an overreliance on desktop ads (which are losing market share as mobileballoons), and thus a weakness for Apple to exploit.“Apple is one of our largest partners,” said Ramaswamy. “We’ve had a collaborative relationship, but we’ve also had difficulty and competition.”The Google executive said he thought the solution was “a conversation with consumers” about advertising and that privacy concerns were overblown.“People are actually OK that some of their information is used to serve ads,” he said.Related:The rise of ad-blocking could herald the end of the free internetUltimately, Kamaras said: “We have to reconcile the fact that user experience is paramount but also that advertising is critical in financing the ecosystem.”Lawsuits won’t work, he said, nor will ad-blockers-blockers – “Then you’ll get ad-blockers-blockers-blockers.”Instead, Kamaras said, advertisers are going to have to make their case to consumers.“What I see as the best path,” he said, “is a digital entente between users and companies that is based on quality standards and codes of conduct, but also on an understanding that all these services can only be financed, today at least, by advertising.”
One of YouTube’s biggest stars has been accused of trivialising rape amid pressure for firms to distance themselves from the online sensation.Olajide Olatunji, better known as KSI, whose YouTube channel has more than 10.2m subscribers, has been criticised by a coalition of women’s groups for denigrating victims of sexual violence and propagating misogynistic views of women by calling them “sluts”.Days after the publication of KSI’s debut book,I Am A Bellend, the women’s groups are calling for YouTube to remove the 22-year-old’s “rape face” videos. The videos show the star in a variety of settings, turning to camera with a menacing expression and making sexually suggestive gestures.In another YouTube video, published in August 2014, KSI asks a Page 3 model about her sex life, while repeatedly calling her a slut in the voiceover.Three years ago KSI was banned from attending Eurogamer Expo, the UK’s biggest video games showcase, as a consequence ofhis sexually inappropriate behaviourtowards women.KSI’s YouTube channel is the third most subscribed-to, and in Britain with 3m more followers than Ed Sheeran’s. His book was published on 24 September and debuted at No 23 in the UK charts.Sarah Green, of the coalitionEnd Violence Against Women, said: “Trivialising and minimising rape contributes to a culture where rape is not taken seriously, and where survivors of rape are told that what happened to them doesn’t matter. YouTube, KSI’s advertisers and his publisher and other partners should consider whether they want to be associated with that kind of content.”A spokesman for KSI said the star had removed all offensive material from his YouTube channel two years ago, explaining that he had made a “mistake as a teenager” and had previously apologised for it.The row echoes criticism ofDapper Laughs,whose ITV show was pulled last November after he was filmed making a joke about rape. Dapper – real name Daniel O’Reilly – also made his name as a YouTube sensation before footage appeared of him saying to an audience member that she was “gagging for a rape”.A spokesman for KSI said: “He has refrained from referencing, responding to or using the term you mention [rape face] for almost two years. He does not create or support any such montages referred to. This incident was in the past and he has acknowledged it was a mistake. It doesn’t reflect who he is or what he believes in.”YouTube did not respond to requests for a comment.
This weekend, thousands of households are likely to become good natured war zones as families and friends argue over whether to watch the Premier League football or the Rugby World cup. 300 years ago, lucky sports fans didn’t have to worry – because there was no such thing as football, or rugby, or American football for that matter – they all existed together as one sport: hugball.Perhaps the purest of all ball games, legend has it that hugball (also known asShrovetide Football, Mob Football, or la soule in parts of France) used to be played with the head of an executed criminal – though Fifa regulations now generally discourage this. But, no matter the name or the nature of the ball being used, the rules (or lack thereof) were always pretty much the same: two vast teams would rampage through a town or field trying to get an object into the opposing side’s territory.By many accounts, hugball was once played rather widely across Europe, andsimilar sportswere popular worldwide. Why did it fall out of fashion? There’s a simple answer: it’s boring to watch. There’s no final whistle, you can’t tell what’s going on, and it’s pretty dangerous (though arguably that’s also the best part). Since the participants can do anything, with essentially no limits, it’s uninteresting. It’s too close to real life.What a good game does is introduce friction – a limitation that holds you back, and consequently makes the game more challenging to play and fun to watch. Video games offer hundreds of possible frictions. In Super Mario titles the strongest friction is probablyMario’s jump, which is just long and high enough to reach certain platforms, but limited enough to ensure that players often have to be pixel perfect in their timing when navigating the platforms. This friction is so integral to the series that Mario’s first game, Donkey Kong, was originally titled Jumpman. If that jumping mechanic was easier or bigger, the game wouldn’t work. The meticulously designed limitation is what makes it so compulsive.Donkey Kong went through several fundamental design iterations before becoming an arcade smash hitPhotograph: public domainBy adding friction to an otherwise limitless activity, you get a game – and with hugball, each different friction added over the years created a different sport. You can’t use your hands: football. You have to stop play between each tackle: American football. You can only pass the ball backwards, but you can kick forwards: rugby.In football, not being able to touch the ball with your hands opens the game up and spreads the players around the field, creating a fluid and constantly shifting playing area that resists rigid strategy and defies statistical models. In American football, the friction leads to a rather stilted game where tactics have to be carefully pre-planned.Rugby, though, is one of the most fascinating sports from a game design standpoint. The core friction of being forced to pass backwards when you need to go forwards creates a fundamental tension that is released when someone makes a great run, a strong hit – or a perfectly weighted kick forward resulting in a moment of chaos followed by relief or jubilation.Passing backwards forces teams to line up across the field, each player inches behind the other in a gorgeous collapsing human wave, receiving the ball and laying it off in what the All Blacks consider to be a single motion: thecatchpass(not dissimilar to what the Barcelona FC academy refers to as ‘a mig toc’ – half a touch). The regularity of this motion, punctuated by moments of unforeseen brilliance or all-too-predictable failure, is what makes the sport so captivating.Rugby has a long history of tweaking the rules to adjust the game in response to different issues. Take the try, for instance. Coming from the phrase “try at a goal”, the original rules stated that touching the ball down between the posts did not give you any points, but rather gave you the opportunity to try for a goal by kicking the ball between the uprights. After 120 years of twists and turns the rugby world more or less settled on five points per try only in 1992.Another example of the development of rugby is the scrum, which has been part of the sport since its beginnings at the Rugby School in the 19th century. Arguably the most visually striking aspect of the game, it is also the least interesting. Awarded most often when a ball is passed forward, the scrum involves eight players from each side locking heads and pushing against each other to try and gain a position of advantage over the ball. It’s even more dangerous than it sounds. If the scrum collapses, as it does very often, it must be restarted (or if a team is deemed to have collapsed it on purpose, a penalty is awarded).Somewhere aroundhalfof allscrumsfail for one reason or another. It’s the main part of the game where players get injured, and the constant resetting can take up to 20% of the game time. It’s incredibly boring to watch, and only rarely offers any strategic advantage to either team. However, the rugby world seems to be catching on to this – the rules for the scrum continue to be tweaked, resulting in some slow improvement, but more importantly there are signs that many teams are avoiding the scrum entirely whenever possible. In many ways this is game design in action: if a certain way of playing does not provide any advantage, it will eventually die out. Perhaps the scrum will one day become a vestigial part of the game, like theuncaught third strike.Although the scrum has been a part of rugby since its inception, could the time-consuming and dangerous interruption eventually be phased out?Photograph: BPI/REX Shutterstock/BPI/REX ShutterstockMany other sports are very reluctant to significantly tweak rules, resulting in stagnation and angry debate – look at the confusion in football about whether a player can commit a foul evenif he or she gets to the ball first. The world of rugby, however, seems to welcome rule changes with open arms: there have also been alterations to the line-outs, the yellow and red card sanctions, and many other elements. Perhaps this is as a result of there already being a number of variations on rugby – most famously Sevens and Rugby League – so it is easier to imagine how the game could be changed or improved. Or perhaps it is as a result of being a very physical and potentially dangerous game, so a watchful eye must be kept on the rules to make sure injuries are kept to a minimum.In any case, it seems to be working. This year’s Rugby World Cup is breaking viewing figure records worldwide, and it offers a particularly interesting approach to tweaking the game off the field. Since 2003 the group stages have had arelatively unusual points system– wins are worth four points, draws are worth two, and there are two ways of getting bonus points: by scoring four tries in a game and by losing by fewer than eight points. Experimenting with points systems like this can lead to some bizarre and disastrous results –see what happened, for example, when the organisers of football’s Caribbean cup tweaked the rules in the 1994 qualifiers.But the Rugby World Cup rules are working, and they lead to a tantalising possibility - that a team can lose a game and still get two points. In the recent South Africa v Japan upset, the Springboks managed this very feat despite their stunning loss, while Japan only received the minimum victory tally of four. It’s not outlandish to suggest that the points system helped produce such a thrilling result because it encourages teams to score tries, rather than grind out dull victories based entirely on penalties. It also gives teams something to play for all the way through a match even when they are losing, and it goes some way towards evening out some of the huge mismatches in quality between the top tier of teams and everyone else – one of the more intractable problems with international rugby union (theshock Japan resultnotwithstanding).Developing a points system like this is exactly the kind of thinking that goes into video game design, and in many ways the game world would do well to pay attention to rugby. The major sports that we now watch on TV or take part in down the park have had hundreds of years of iterative development and play testing – and game designers are engaged in a similar process. Just as hugball developed into rugby and football, tic-tac-toe has developed into Agricola and Puerto Rico, the ancient randomised maze game Rogue has morphed into Don’t Starve, and Donkey Kong, after many twists and turns, became Canabalt, Fez and Tomb Raider.Good game design is all about tweaking the rules and finding the best solutions to encourage competitive play. What the Rugby World Cup has shown to other sports – and to video games – is that while tradition and structure are important, fun is more important still.
The Mitsubishi pick-up has “Barbarian” in lights across every conceivable surface. It is incredibly beefy and, in the wrong hands, indeed a barbarian. You could back into an innocent Zafira as easily as turning on the radio. The parking camera is worse than useless, slow to respond and, in consequence, wrong about almost everything. But you don’t get a pick-up because it’s easy to park. You get it if you need to pick up a lot of stuff. It’s too large to get into a city dump without a licence, so it’s not your amateur’s pick-up. This is a planner’s pick-up.In rear-wheel drive, it is a bit like a tractor. The gear stick carries on shaking as you turn off the engine. It makes so many noises, I kept thinking there was a police car behind me. “Even the windows are too loud,” said a haughty seven-year-old from the back. Modern cars, I realised, try to mask the raw mechanics, and there is none of that here. Anything you can’t hear, you can feel vibrating. Primary ride events come at you like a fairground attraction: if you can see a crater coming, you know you’re going to feel it. But secondary ride events are significant, too: a seam in the road you wouldn’t even see will knock you around like a squally wind. It’s like driving a shed. “Why are these cowardly cyclists scattering before me?” I asked my mister. “Have you seen the size of yourself?” he replied.Indeed, it’s so heavy that the determining factor in performance is not engine size but gravity: going down the slightest incline, you can be in fourth at 20mph and not even feel it. Going uphill, you have to floor it in third just to get on to a slip road.I was so high up in the cabin, I was at eye level with white vans and other pick-ups. You sort of acknowledge each other – it’s hard not to – and I nod, trying to imagine what it would be like if I really were working. Apparently, these are very popular with American agents (it’s an ironic thing: “Any normal person would be in a Hummer; we could afford one, but prefer this”) and with Islamic State (along with theToyota HilluxandMitsubishi Warrior).In the absence of a higher ironic purpose or an ideological war, it made sense to me only with a party of 10-year-olds on the flatbed, screaming their way around a car park in Surrey Quays (which I definitely did not do, but was hypothetically hilarious). It is neither a city car, nor a country car. It’s a working car, like a working dog: not as charming as a regular one, but more impressive.Mitsubishi L200 Barbarian: in numbersPrice£28,558.80Top speed111mphAcceleration0-62mph in 10.4 secondsCombined fuel consumption42.8mpgCO2emissions173g/kmEco rating5/10Cool rating8/10
Uber has been hit by a string of problems across the world, with London the latest city to threaten the firm’s growth.BrazilUber has just been banned from operating in Rio de Janeiro, the host city of the 2016 Olympics, and São Paulo is on the verge of banning the service for operating as an unregulated business.Earlier this week,Rio mayor Eduardo Paessigned legislation banning Uber and similar applications from operating in the city. “Uber is forbidden,” he said. “We are open to discuss the matter, but it is forbidden.” Uber responded by saying: “It is a sad day for Rio.”There have been several violent attacks in Brazil against Uber drivers.Related:Uber's global battle moves to LondonFranceIn Paris, authorities raidedUber’s offices in Marchand two of its executives arrested in Juneappeared in court earlier this week. The hearing has been delayed so both sides can review evidence that has recently come to light. The pair, Thibaud Simphal and Pierre-Dimitri Gore-Coty, face up to five years in prison and fines of €300,000 (£220,000) per charge over allegations of fraudulent commercial activity, operating an illegal taxi service and maintaining illegal databases containing personal information of drivers and passengers.Uber has become the focus of protests in France. In June, singer Courtney Love criticised the French president, François Hollande, claiming she would have been safer in Baghdad after her taxi got caught up in a protestagainst the Uber app.The NetherlandsDutch police raided Uber’s offices inAmsterdamon Tuesday as part of an ongoing criminal investigation into whether the firm was violating the country’s taxi laws by operating a service that allows untrained drivers and those without a taxi licence to offer a cheaper service.CanadaUber’s efforts to break into the Vancouver taxi market have been met with resistance from cab drivers who took out an injunction against the firm in 2014. Uber adviser David Plouffe recently told the city’s board of trade that it was a shame the firm had not been welcomed.In Toronto this week, mayor John Tory said his patience with Uber was wearing thin after the firm gave him what he described as “a one finger salute” to the council’s request for it to shut its cheaper service UberX.Related:Uber: the smartphone app that is driving London cabbies to distractionIndiaDelhibanned Uber in December after awomansaid she was raped by one of the company’s drivers. The incident provoked outrage at Uber’s failure to check whether its drivers had a clean police record. Uber claims it has tightened the ways it carries out background checks on drivers and improved safety measures.Delhi’s transport department complained earlier this year that Uber was still operating, despite the ban. In June, police started enforcing the ban more rigorously by hailing cars from Uber and confronting them when they arrived. About 300 drivers from Uber and other banned services protested that the ban threatened their livelihoods.
Uber’s running global battle with taxi drivers, politicians and legal authorities moves to London next week with a court hearing that could deal a blow to the ride-hailing app in one of its most successful markets.The San Francisco-based company has 18,000 registered partners, or drivers, in the UK capital. But that growth could be checked in the high court on Monday when London’s transport regulator, Transport for London (TfL), asks a judge to decide whether Uber is breaking the law.Related:From Rio to Paris - Uber is fighting battles across the globeTfL, controlled by the London mayor, Boris Johnson, has been an ally of Uber in the past but it stepped up the pressure before the hearing this week bylaunching proposals to curb its business.The development has been welcomed by black-cab drivers, who have staged protests against a smartphone app that they claim operates as a surrogate metering system. This undercuts black-cab operators who must adhere to a metering tariff set by TfL.Related:Uber fires back in high court row with TfLWarren Cresdee, 52, says: “I’ve been driving a black cab in London for 29 years and I’ve definitely noticed a bit of a downturn with the advent of Uber. At first I did wonder whether it was a bit of a fad for youngsters with that app. But if you don’t have to obey all the regulations, you can undercut everybody.”Uber, whose financial backers includingGoldman Sachshave invested nearly $10bn (£6.5bn) in the firm, views TfL’s recent moves as an assault on its growth in Europe’s largest city. However, London is far from the only metropolis to take against Uber.Its services were banned in Rio de Janeiro in Brazil this weekwhile drivers in New South Wales, Australia, have had their licences suspended. Other cities where taxi drivers have staged protests, or authorities have challenged Uber, include Amsterdam, Delhi and Vancouver.In London, Uber quicklylaunched a petition against the TfL proposals, asking its customers to let the regulator know they felt “riders and drivers come first”. Within hours, about 100,000 supporters had signed their names appealing to TfL not to make life any harder for Uber.TfL’s proposals include: insisting on a five-minute delay for bookings; preventing operators from showing vehicles that are available for instant hire via an app; and new controls on ride-sharing that could threaten Uber’s plans to introduce a car-sharing service.That petition will carry little weight in the high court on Monday, when TfL will ask a judge to decide whether the way Uber’s app calculates fares breaks the law.Addison Lee, Europe’s biggest minicab company with 4,000 drivers in London, has called on the courts to stop what it says is Uber’s “unchecked, unregulated and unlawful taxi metering system”.Related:Why won't Boris Johnson let Uber break the cab 'cartel'? Votes, maybe?The Uber system, which was provisionally approved by TfL, “gives Londoners the worst of all possible worlds with untrained drivers choosing any route they want to maximise fares”, says the minicab firm. Black-cab operators use TfL-regulated meters, which protect drivers from losing money in the event of being held up in congestion or roadworks, a frequent occurrence in London. As the taxi ticks over in a traffic jam, so does the meter. Black cab operators argue that Uber should not be afforded this protection because it is not regulated as onerously and therefore does not deserve such a privilege. Cab firms such as Addison Lee are not metered and they offer fixed fares ahead of a journey.With the Uber app, passengers request a ride which drivers accept; the driver then shows the route and destination. The fare is calculated by the app as well, which makes it similar to a meter. Uber’s rivals argue that this method incentivises the drivers to take longer routes since they will produce bigger fares.Addison Lee’s chief executive officer, Liam Griffin, says he is in favour of a two-tier regulatory system, that distinguishes black-cab operators from others. “The regulations should be designed to make the private hire experience an efficient one but not the same as a black-cab one.”Griffin says the court case “could potentially have a devastating effect on Uber’s London business”, if it goes the wrong way.Related:Want a cheap Uber taxi? Wait till no one else wants oneGriffin believesTfL has found itself in a dilemmaby not sticking to its regulations all along and allowing a fudging of the rules that has let Uber on to the capital’s street. “If TfL had wanted to enforce the rules and had the inclination and foresight to do so, we would not be in this position now,” Griffin says.Uber has always argued that an app on a smartphone is not a meter and does not have the physical equipment or processes to replicate a black-cab meter system. It thinks the case highlights the challenges with detailed regulations, but feels it will be able to operate whatever the outcome, although with a potentially less customer-friendly app in the future.“All these regulations and requirements – and this court case – are designed to protect the black-cab industry,” says Uber.News that TfL was even considering such a clampdown on some of Uber’s practices took many by surprise sinceJohnsonhas usually appeared sympathetic to Uber and even recently described the black-cab drivers as “luddites”.The head of the Institute of Directors lobby group, Simon Walker, called on the mayor to stand by his free market principles and leave Uber alone. A number of Conservative councillors have written to the mayor, urging him to think again over a possible crackdown.Related:Will Uber kill the black cab?Not surprisingly, the proposals do not go down well with most Uber drivers. “You shouldn’t be punished for doing something that makes life cheaper and more comfortable,” says Uber registered partner Ali Alnasari, who is writing a thesis on the taxi market at Middlesex University when he is not driving a car.“I admire the black-cab operators and they are an iconic symbol of London. They have studied hard and I respect that, but this is 2015 and we need to evolve,” he says.
The European Court of Justice has ruled in favour of the Hungarian data protection authority in its case against Slovakian property site Weltimmo. It’s a landmark ruling that could have big implications for companies such as Facebook and Google, operating across multiple EU countries.TheECJ ruled Thursdaythat if a company operates a service in the native language of a country, and has representatives in that country, then it can be held accountable by the country’s national data protection agency despite not being headquartered in the country.Ashley Winton, UK head of data protection and privacy at law firm Paul Hastings said: “This landmark ruling from the ECJ has changed the face of data protection for companies operating across multiple EU jurisdictions, particularly those who are consumer facing.”Changes to one-stop-shopThe case was brought by the Hungarian data protection authority against property website Weltimmo, which operates a property advertising service in Hungary but is based in Slovakia. The ECJ decided that Weltimmo could be liable for fines imposed by the Hungarian authority for breach of national data protection law.Before the judgment, companies such as Facebook which choose to headquarter their European operations in one country, such as Ireland, were thought to be subject to regulation only within that country. The companies could then operate in any EU member state without having to gain regulatory approval in each country.“This was to the benefit of many companies, some of whom elected to create an establishment in the UK or Ireland, where data protection laws and practices are more liberal and arguably more business friendly,” said Winton.The Google Spain case of 2014 that led to the “right to be forgotten” ruling brought that proposition into question, and the Weltimmo case now puts it on shaky ground.The ruling means that Weltimmo could be liable for the 10m Hungarian forint (£23,650) fine levied by the Hungarian authority over the passing of user information to debt collection agencies, which was found to infringe Hungarian data protection laws.But the implications for the likes of Facebook and Google could be vast.“This [ruling could] dramatically increase compliance costs, particularly where a website is targeted at multiple member states, making the company subject to multiple data protection authorities. With the appetite for enforcement high across a number of member states, the repercussions for non-compliance could be huge,” said Winton.Basis of operations in the countryThe case revolves around what constitutes a company’s “establishment” within a country. Should a company be found to have operations within a country, such as representatives registered in the country, bank accounts, offices or similar, then fines can be applied by local data protection authorities.If, however, “establishment” cannot be proven, then the local data protection authority cannot impose penalties outside of its own state and must rely on the data protection authority in the company’s base of operations.Several cases have been brought against Facebook over privacy across Europe,including in BelgiumandAustria, where the national data protection authorities have argued that Facebook has breached their national laws.The ruling could give those national data protection authorities more power to enforce local rules, and is likely to impactboth the Max Schrems caseandthe Belgian data protection lawsuitagainst Facebook.New rules governing the one-stop-shop approach to regulation across Europe are currently under development having been proposed by the European Commission andcurrently within a “trilogue”between the EC, the European parliament and the Council of the European Union discussing each of their amendments to the EC’s proposal.Facebook accused of spying on Belgian citizens like the NSA
A man was able to successfully buy google.com, the domain name for the world’s most popular website, for $12 (£7.90), minutes before the company contacted him to say the transaction had been cancelled.Sanmay Ved, a former Google employee, was using the tech firm’s new domain buying service Google Domains at 1.30am on 29 September when he noticed that google.com was available to buy. He added it to his shopping cart and, to his surprise, the transaction went through.“I used to work at Google so I keep messing around with the product. I type in Google.com and to my surprise it showed it as available,”Ved told Business Insider. “I thought it was some error, but I could actually complete check out.”Sanmay Ved’s ownership of Google.com lasted a mere minute. The company quickly emailed to say it had cancelled the order and Ved was refunded.Photograph: Sanmay Ved/LinkedInInstead of receiving the normal confirmation emails from the company, Ved’s inbox and Google Webmaster Tools (also known as Google Search Console) was updated with sensitive information intended for the original owners of the domain – the webmasters of Google.Ved’s ownership of google.com lasted a mere minute. The company quickly emailed him to say it had cancelled the order because someone had registered the site before he could. Ved was refunded the $12 that had already been charged.“So for one minute I had access,” Ved said. “At least I can now say I’m the man who owned google.com for a minute.”It is unclear what happened to allow Ved to purchase the site. It could have been a bug in Google Domains or the company simply failed to renew its domain name when the time came.Ved said he has reported the breach to Google’s security team, who are looking into the incident. “The scary part was I had access to the webmaster controls for a minute,” he said.A Google representative said the firm was looking into the issue, but had not noticed anything unusual.The incident echoes a mishap by Microsoft in 2003, when it forgot to renew the well-known hotmail.co.uk domain in time. The domain name was bought by a member of the public who immediately contacted Microsoft and arranged to hand it over.
Kevin Systrom is posing for a photograph when we meet atInstagramHQ, arms splayed across the back of a sleek black sofa, with a knowing grin. “Morephotos!” he sighs, as he is moved to another spot in the room, with all the unconvincing exasperation of someone who quite likes having his picture taken. And so he should, because as the co-founder of Instagram, he gets asked a lot.Systrom is a rangy 6ft 5in and prides himself on dressing smartly, bySilicon Valleystandards; today he wears a light grey jacket over his T-shirt, and dark trousers. He seems older than his 31 years and has a certain swagger, exuding the self-assurance that comes with having built a $35bn technology company and a personal fortune of around $400m.In a former life, this meeting room was bland and corporate – white plastic table, grey carpet, black mesh chairs – but a visit fromAl Gorein May last year changed all that, Systrom says. “This,” he says, channelling the former vice-president’s scorn, “is an Instagram meeting room?” He called a designer friend from San Francisco, who sourced green 1970s chairs and a huge white marble table, customised wallpaper based on staff fingerprints, and prints of favourite pictures taken by the Instagram team.On the other side of the freeway sitsFacebook’s newest,Frank Gehry-designed office, housing 2,800 in one giant room. Given Instagram’s strong sense of aesthetic, you’d think they’d mind not having space insidetheir mothership, but Systrom insists they operate as a separate company; they are tucked away instead on Facebook’s Menlo Park campus. It’s a sprawling, pristine, plain set of buildings from the outside, the former home ofSun Microsystems, wedged between the freeway and the swampy southern edges of San Francisco Bay. The receptionist is baffled that I have arrived by public transport; Facebook and Instagram staff either drive or are shuttled the 38 miles from San Francisco in luxury coaches with Wi-Fi and air conditioning, presumably so they can keep working until the last possible moment. Inside, the floor is stripped back to the concrete and the walls are decorated with motivational posters: “Kick the shit out of Plan B”; “Leadership is best measured by what people do when you’re not around”; “Looking for love in the great forest of like.” Inside a central courtyard there is an ice-cream parlour, brightly coloured food stalls, wooden benches and energetic young people looking as if they are busy changing the world.Related:Instagram passes 400m users as young shun tweets for photo opFounded five years ago, Instagram was born during a summer holiday in Mexico’s boho beach town ofTodos Santos. Then 26, Systrom was sketching out new app ideas for the aspiring location service Burbn he was building (users could check in at various locations, and report back on their meet-ups), having already secured a $250,000 investment. Talking through an idea to introduce photographs to Burbn, Systrom’s girlfriend,Nicole Schuetz, said she wouldn’t want to post hers, because they wouldn’t look good enough; her iPhone 4 didn’t have a great camera. The answer, they concluded, was to add filters. By the end of the day, Systrom had created the X-Pro II filter and posted an image ofa dog and Schuetz’s footon an early version of Instagram (codenamed Codename).“That first picture became everything and more than we wanted it to be,” he says, pointing out that the office coffee table is built around a giant print of that first photograph. “Back then, there was no way of showing what was going on in your life, as it happened. Facebook was still primarily desktop,Flickrwas about uploading from your SLR camera, and Twitter barely had any photo support. That left this opportunity wide open to share what was happening in your life visually.” Instagram was born just a few months after the iPhone 4, a way of disguising its low-quality pictures. Since then, Systrom explains, filter usage has declined as mobile picture quality has improved. Instagram itself, however, has done anything but decline, with an unfathomable 40bn photos shared to date.Systrom with Jamie Oliver, Russell Brand and Liam Payne.Photograph: Getty ImagesDid he foresee the size to which the site would grow? “Obviously, we couldn’t have predicted the scale, but it makes sense. Our brains are primarily visual. Letterform was just a hack, until people worked out how to communicate more perceptually.” Comparisons with Guttenberg’s 15th-century printing press and its revolutionary effect are popular with heads of technology firms who clearly hope to have as big an impact. And it is possible that some of today’s biggest tech firms may initiate a new age of enlightenment; it is equally likely they will implode after a few years and be replaced by the next cool thing. This is Systrom’s challenge, to stay on the right side of that equation.***The rapid growth of Instagram and its popularity with everyone from designers to photojournalists and politicians is one of Silicon Valley’s favourite fables. Its followers include President Obama (advocating Obamacare), David Beckham (berating the Daily Mail for criticising his parenting skills) and Kim Kardashian (trying to break the internet). It makes room for the mundane:plumberssharing their latest jobs,teacherssharing the delight and horror of the classroom. It featuresbad taxidermyand horrific autopsy shots. It hosts millions of us, snapping our holidays, our children, our shopping and a disproportionate number of sunsets.Only 18 months after founding the company, with just 13 employees serving 30 million users, Systrom and co-founderMike Kriegerfound themselves caught in a bidding war between Twitter and Facebook.Mark Zuckerberg’s persistence and deep pockets won out, with a deal eventually worth (after a dip in Facebook’s share price) $736.5m.It’s very hard to succeed without giving your entire life to this thing“It was a lot of luck, a lot of opportunity and a lot of hard work,” Systrom says now of the deal and the months that led up to it. “Weekends didn’t exist. Mike and I set up an alarm on our phones if the servers were overloaded and went down, and that went off every four or five hours. Then as we grew, it went off every hour, or every 15 minutes. To this day, I have a Pavlovian response to that alarm: simultaneous nausea and anxiety. But it was also a sign of growth, which is a great problem to have. Now it’s different problems: what do we work on, what’s our strategy, how do we fend off competitors?”Why does he think this punishing work culture appeals to so many? “When you’re small, it’s very hard to succeed without giving your entire life to this thing. The technology moves so fast and the context – your competition – changes so quickly that the one advantage you have as a small company is speed. You can pack three to four working days into one day and gain an advantage.”Silicon Valley is known for being pressurised, highly competitive and stuffed with ambitious people who push themselves – and sometimes fail to admit they are struggling to cope.Research published in April, byDr Michael Freemanat the University of California in San Francisco, found 49% of the entrepreneurs he surveyed reported a mental health condition; 30% felt depressed (theUS average is 8%) and 27% had anxiety concerns. Suicides of company founders have cast a shadow over the industry, including 22-year-old Ilya Zhitomirskiy ofDiaspora, 47-year-old Ecomom co-founderJody Shermanand, in May this year, 31-year-old Austen Heinz of Cambrian Genomics.Systrom’s favourite accounts include @petesouza, the White House’s official photographer, who posted this shotBut overwork seems a world away from Instagram, whose staff seem content in their secure and rapidly growing company. I am taken on a tour by the publicist, admittedly, but their delight appears genuine (“It’s my dream job!”). Does Systrom feel a duty of care towards his (often very young) team? “People don’t work in a dotcom because they have to,” he says. “There are many professions that don’t require that sort of time. But people sign up because they want to make world-changing differences, to build something that affects millions of people. These are the companies that in just a couple of years can change entire industries.” Systrom says Instagram conducts anonymous surveys to check the health of its staff, and is respectful of weekends and families. “You don’t win a marathon by sprinting all day,” he says, not sounding as heartfelt as when talking about his ambition to change the world.Related:The melancholy streets of Baku, Azerbaijan's ever-changing capital – in picturesLater, I talk to Ashley Yuki, a product manager who oversaw the recent introduction of portrait and landscape formats to the service. (Instagram’s square format photos are a legacy of Systrom using a Holga camera while studying photography in Florence, Italy, for one term of his Stanford degree; the switch was big news in Instagram world.) Yuki coordinates designers, engineers, marketing and every other team to get new features out on time. Does she feel Silicon Valley has a long-hours problem? “We are measured on the impact of our work – the number of people who use it, the feedback from users, the results of what we did – not how many hours we’ve worked. That lends itself to a more meritocratic culture. My schedule is flexible and I have lots of control. We work hard and I like that, so it’s a burden and a joy to be the person who can fit all those pieces together.”***Kevin Systrom was born in the wealthy Massachusetts suburb of Holliston, to a human resources executive father and a marketing executive mother, who worked at Monster and Swapit during the first dotcom boom. AtMiddlesex boarding schoolin Concord, he started to learn programming. Later, at Stanford, studying management science and engineering, he interned at Odeo, the company that went on to found Twitter. Systrom sat next toJack Dorsey, but that didn’t help Dorsey during negotiations to buy Instagram, which Systrom and Krieger sold to Facebook for nearly twice Twitter’s offer. Dorsey hasn’t posted to Instagram since.Systrom’s life outside work is as carefully curated as his Instagram feed: he’s into fine food, golf, skiing and holidays at California’s Lake Tahoe. His favourite Instagrammers are@symmetrybreakfast(exactly that),@everydayafrica, a group of photographers publishing shots from across the continent, and@petesouza, the White House’s official photographer. (He insists he’s been to few fashion shows, despite being photographed on the front row withAlexa Chung, and at awards ceremonies withDiane von FurstenbergandKim Kardashian.) He is adept at redirecting unwelcome questions: when I ask if he has any political allegiances, and joke that he might have an opinion onDonald Trump, a strategic user of Instagram, he simply says he’s not political. No, he hasn’t met Trump; the other presidential candidates campaign just as effectively through his service, too.With Kim Kardashian at the CFDA fashion awards in June.Photograph: Getty ImagesInstagram’s new “search and explore” feature, rolled out in June for American users only, now highlights collections of Instagram accounts – extreme sports, for example, travel or fashion. It is designed to surface more diverse content, and show what’s trending now. Is this editorialising? Systrom resists the word, while claiming Instagram has rivalled his experience of television news, most powerfully when users posted hundreds of pictures of the devastation wrought byHurricane Sandy, in near real time, in October 2012.Instagram began with 25,000 users, on its first day; now, thanks in part to the Facebook deal, it has 400 million people using the site every month, with 80 million photos shared every day. Systrom says this growth is largely down to Facebook’s considerable resources when it comes to sales advertising, their targeting and relevance algorithms, which he claims are helping Instagram mature more quickly than its rivals. (Research companyeMarketersuggests Instagram will reach $600m in ad revenue this year, but that this will grow to $2.81bn in 2017; remarkably, Instagram is also predicted to have bigger net mobile display ad revenues than Twitter and Google by then, having introduced more innovative formats.)While it’s hard to see how Systrom could have turned down Facebook – an offer so big, it astonished many in the tech industry at the time – what would have become of Instagram if it hadn’t signed up? “A lot of great things have happened,” Systrom says. “There are fun parts of running a startup and not-so-fun parts, and Facebook handles the not-so-fun parts, like infrastructure, spam, sales. The real questions are, how big can Instagram get? Is it 400 million, or bigger? Can it be a viable business if it is that big? These are at the top of the list for everyone in Silicon Valley.”How big can Instagram get? Is it 400 million, or bigger?These are no doubt the kind of questions he puts to Zuckerberg when they meet on campus. The Facebook founder pursued him aggressively in 2012, then, after making the offer, retired to watchGame Of Throneswhile Systrom made frantic calls to lawyers and investors. The pair meet weekly, inside and outside of work, and by all accounts have much in common, with Zuckerberg savvy enough to give Systrom the space he needs.Being under the care of Facebook is a constant reminder of how much bigger Instagram could be. “At Facebook [which has 1.5 billion users every month], we’re the little kid on the block. If you ask someone on the street in India if they use Instagram, they will say no – so that’s an opportunity for us.” This is what Silicon Valley’s investors love to hear: unapologetic ambitions for global growth, no holds barred.It’s not just Systrom who is making money from the site. Many Instagrammers claim to be earning a significant income, including Sharmadean Reid of@wahnails, Dutch fishmongerBart van Olphen,who has used its 15-second videos to build his cookery brand, and New Yorker Liz Eswein,@NewYorkCity, who has 1.2 million followers and claims to charge advertisers $1 for every “like” on a sponsored photo. The money starts coming in when you have more than 100,000 followers, which can be worth upwards of £3,000 a month, according to professional InstagrammerBrian DiFeo, who founded an agency advising others on how to exploit the service.Seventy-five per cent of users are outside the US, 14 million of them in the UK. I suggest to Systrom that this is photo sharing on a massive scale; he disagrees. “Calling Instagram a photo-sharing app is like calling a newspaper a letter-sharing book, or a Mozart grand era symphony a series of notes. Instagram is less about the medium and more about the network. If you’re a business, we have a product so you can buy ads. If you’re a consumer and want to entertain, you can record a 15-second looping video. If you’re an artist and want to do a piece of conceptual art, there’s a place for you, too. ‘Photo sharing’ misses the nuance.”***What makes one picture better than the other? An understanding of light is what separates a great photographer from a mediocre one, saysRichard Koci Hernandez, assistant professor of new media at UC Berkeley’s journalism school in San Francisco. “Humans are conditioned to see strong shapes and patterns, and it’s light, combined with capturing that human moment, that can stop people in their tracks .” Hernandez was one of the first news photographers to document Silicon Valley’s smartphone era and has been using Instagram since it launched. Yet late last year he deleted more than 1,100 photos from his Instagram account because they were making him feel trapped, he says. A year on, he wants to do the same thing again with the 70 images he has published since – monochrome lone figures, an atmospheric city, snatched moments of real life.Double shot latte: London’s @symmetrybreakfast, another of Systrom’s three favourite accounts“My images are a reflection of me as a photographer, so is that me? We are all influenced by likes and comments in a social space, and I have thousands of images and tons of followers.” And he does: 235,000 of them. “That was influencing who I was, and I was thinking too much about what I was posting. We are all trying to find our voice and find what is authentic, but the comments push you in a certain direction that is less objective.” Hernandez says he would like his images to live momentarily, which is exactly the appeal of Instagram’s biggest rival,Snapchat, estimated to have 200 million users, many of them younger than Instagram’s. “That backlog starts to define you,” Hernandez says, “but I think we’re always different and evolving. I’d like my images to live a couple of days and then die, so I don’t have to remember or be tied.”Hernandez is sanguine about the popularity of selfies and pictures of latte foam; he sees Instagram as a collective experiment in visual communication. “That’s what humanity does when we get together – we want everyone to look at us. It’s the game we’re all playing. Expecting anything more from a medium in its infancy is too much to ask. I believe in the power of latte foam. Communication has to be homogenous at the start; after that, the creativity and nuance creeps in, and artists move the medium to the edges.” Maybe so, but evenAi Weiweiuses Instagram for selfies.Systrom gives short shrift to the suggestion that his service has been overrun by hipsters and narcissists uploading pictures of their coffee. “With so many people, it’s hard to have uniformity or predictability. There are performance artists, sports stars, celebrities, people singing and doingDubsmashesand, yes, hipsters use Instagram. But last year we had activistKatie Meylerdocumenting ebola on the ground, raising awareness of the epidemic in a way no one else could. We had stunning photos of the Baltimore riots, the winter storm Juno, that made the cover of the New York Times. These are not hipster shots of lattes.”Why did Instagram succeed where other, similar services failed? There was a swath of photo-filter apps available in 2010 and most fell by the wayside. Systrom puts a large part of his success down to luck; I’d also put it down to a combination of simple design, improved smartphone cameras and an appetite for a broader network based on visual images. The service has grown thoughtfully, even cautiously, so that it remains accessible. But it will need to work hard to compete against the excitement and spontaneity of Snapchat, the speed and simplicity of text messaging, and photography fatigue (the more pictures we take, the less we seem to value them). Other challenges lie beyond the horizon, where the biggest threat might now be no more than a sketch in someone’s notebook.So where does Instagram go from here? I ask Systrom to imagine the most fantastical feature he could add. “Imagine a world where virtual reality exists and is ubiquitous, and we have whatever device we need to experience it. How cool would it be if you were at a concert in the countryside and I could be there with you – hearing, smelling, seeing it, too? Or the presidential inauguration – that would be amazing. That’s what Instagram is now, in a very low-fidelity way. I like to say we’re working on time travel, but the difference is we’re not sending you there – it’s coming to you.”An Instagram post of the Juno storm, New York, January 2015.Photograph: @junowinterstormTop of Systrom’s priorities right now is his wedding to college sweetheart Schuetz next summer. It will be a local affair, and combine good food and wine. He has read somewhere that English weddings are traditionally in the morning so he wants to do that (in California, this counts as eccentric). I tell him it means everyone just gets more drunk in the afternoon, because there’s nothing else to do before the party, and an eyebrow crumples; he is trying to work out if this is good or bad. More importantly, will the wedding be on Instagram? “I don’t think we could get away withnotputting it on Instagram,” he concedes. “But I don’t think it will trend.”Whatever comes next, Systrom is made for life. He is a model of what success currently looks like in Silicon Valley – young, white and male, with all the confidence, opportunity and connections that an expensive education can provide. Five years in and Instagram has joined the elite group of technology firms now shaping our world, albeit from a very particular perspective. I’m struck by the disparity between Instagram, the cool, sleek world it inhabits on and offline, and the real world outside. We see, we share, but what then?It is hometime at Facebook as I leave the building and a fleet of pristine luxury buses arrives to ferry everyone back to San Francisco. I cross the nine lanes of freeway again and pay my $2.10 to catch the bus back over the Bay. It is a beautiful, hazy evening and for a second I think I might Instagram it. But I put my phone back in my bag, rest my head on the window and my eyes catch sight of a seal bobbing up from the water instead.
On September 13, 2001, four US Senators from both sides of the aisle introduced the first version of the USA Patriot Act, a sweeping, 342-page bill that overturned virtually all US privacy laws and led to the creation of the global, pervasive surveillance programs that Edward Snowden disclosed in June 2013.It’s possible that four senators and their respective staffers wrote the Patriot Act in a mere 36 hours, while America went into a panic over the worst terrorist attacks in US history. It seems a lot more likely, though, that the Patriot Act was already sitting in someone’s desk-drawer, waiting to be tabled when a suitable disaster occurred.The conspiracy-minded point to Patriot’s swift introduction as evidence that 9/11 was an inside job, and that Patriot was just part of the plan. I think this is pretty implausible, and not merely because I don’t think that the parties involved would be depraved enough as to commit those atrocities, nor smart enough to get away with it.A much more plausible explanation is that these surveillance-minded authoritarian political operators predicted that eventually something would happen, something big and terrible and eye-catching, and that this would create an opportunity to ram through their agenda. It was opportunism, not mass-murder. It’s not far-fetched: just last week,a leaked email from the General Counsel of the US Office of the Director of National Intelligencerevealed that America’s spooks had decided to withdraw their calls for a ban on cryptography, but planned to reintroduce them after the next terrorist disaster had put Americans in a receptive frame of mind.The goal of using disasters to seize power is terrible, but the tactic of thinking through the political possibilities of future events is fundamentally sound.There will be terrorist attacks in the future – rare, overblown, and showy, but they’ll occur, because all you need to make a showy terrorist attack is a couple of idiots with bad ideas, and there’s a bottomless supply of both. Doubtless, there are authoritarians writing sequels to the Patriot Act to produce when the next atrocity strikes.If the odd future terrorist attack is likely, then grotesque, cataclysmic privacy breaches are sure bets. The big breaches of the past year like Ashley Madison and the Office of Personnel Management, were so noteworthy that they crowded out the drumbeat of unimaginably terrible credit-card breaches at the likes of Hilton and Walmart and Target and literally dozens of other major companies.What does this mean for privacy advocates? Since the internet’s inception, electronic privacy advocates have tried (mostly in vain) to convince people that they need to take online privacy seriously. From now on, we’ll get the hardest part of our job done for us, for free, by criminals and big, stupid companies and incompetent regulators.Why did we suck at convincing people to care about privacy? Maybe because it was impossible. Humans are really bad at training their intuition to correctly assess propositions whose cause and effect are separated by vast expanses of time and space. The privacy disclosure you make today might never bite you in the ass, or it might come back to haunt you in ten years. When it does, you won’t be able to recall the thought process that you went through when you gave out that data today, and you won’t be able to learn any real lessons that will help you get better at disclosure tomorrow.But now the privacy breaches and their consequences are coming in fast and furious. Ashley Madison and OPM were tremors, not quakes. There are bigger, scarier databases with more info on more people, and they aren’t any better (or worse) protected than any of the ruptured databases we’ve seen this year. The only way to be sure you don’t leak data is to not collect or retain it, and Big Data’s hype and the cheapness of hard drives has turned every pipsqueak tech company into a Big Data packrat with a mountain of potentially toxic personal info on millions of people, all protected by a password that’s simple enough for a CEO to remember it.Every week or two, from now on, will see new privacy disasters, each worse than the last. Every week or two, from now on, will see millions of people who suddenly wish there was more they could do to protect their privacy.For privacy advocates in 2015, the job is clear: have a plan in your drawer. A plan: how to safeguard your privacy, how to understand your privacy, how to understand the breach. A plan that explains that your lack of security isn’t a fact of nature, it’s the result of conscious decisions made by people who were either hostile or indifferent to your wellbeing, who saved or made money through those decisions. A plan that shows you what you can do to keep you and yours safe - and whose head your should be demanding on a pike.We should still be advocating for better practices, businesses, technology and rules for privacy, but our job will be made simpler with an army of supporters. That army is ready to enlist, too, even if they don’t know it.Yet.
More than 1bn Android smartphones and devices are vulnerable to a new security vulnerability dubbed Stagefright 2.0, warn security experts.The follow-up tothe Stagefright bug, which allowed hackers to take over an Android smartphone by sending it an MMS message, Stagefright 2.0 is security vulnerability made of two holes in Android that can allow an attacker to take over a smartphone via an MP3 or MP4 video.Mark James, security specialist at ESET said: “Visiting a website and previewing an infected song or video file could enable the attacker to gain access to your mobile device and run remote code, in theory allowing them full access to your device enabling them to do whatever they wish ... including installing other malware, or just harvesting your data for use in identity theft.”The vulnerability affects even those smartphones that have had the original Stagefright bug patched, such as Google’s Nexus devices and Samsung’s Galaxy S6 series.“The first vulnerability (in libutils) impacts almost every Android device since version 1.0 released in 2008. We found methods to trigger that vulnerability in devices running version 5.0 and up using the second vulnerability (in libstagefright),”said Zimperium, the company that first disclosed the original Stagefright bug.The security holes lie within the media processing systems of Android, which can be broken, potentially allowing access to the the rest of the smartphone using specially crafted MP3 audio files or MP4 videos – both common formats for songs and videos.“The first version of Stagefright required some information, namely your mobile number to be able to send the text message to your device,” says James. This new version does not even need to know any of your information to be successful. This, in theory, enables a much wider audience and indeed could enable access to over 1bn android devices.”Rated as criticalGoogle was notified of the bugs on 15 August. The companyacknowledged the security holes, saying“this issue is rated as a critical severity due to the possibility of remote code execution as the privileged mediaserver service. The mediaserver service has access to audio and video streams as well as access to privileges that third party apps cannot normally access.”The bugs are due to be patched in Google’s monthly security update for October for its Nexus smartphones. Patches for other smartphones will be at the discretion of their manufacturers and the mobile phone providers. Google provided the fixes to manufacturers on 10 September.Google, LG, Samsung and others havepledged to roll out monthly security updatesfor the smartphones in the wake of the original Stagefright bug.Security company Symantec notes that therehave been no reportsof Stagefright 2.0 being exploited in the wild but that “until a patch is applied, proceed cautiously when using your mobile browser to preview unsolicited audio and video files”.“You absolutely have to think before visiting websites, all too often people fail to understand their mobile devices are just as much at risk as their desktops,” said James.Android lockscreen can be bypassed by overloading with massive passwordGoogle’s Android under antitrust investigation by FTC
The iPhone 6S Plus promises richer interactions with a pressure sensitive screen, a better camera with new “Live Photos” and longer battery life, despite it having a smaller capacity battery. Does it deliver?In the tick, tock upgrade cycle, the iPhone 6S Plus is Apple’s phablet tock. It’s a speed bump on the design of last year’s iPhone 6 Plus with a few new features thrown in to try and entice buyers.Spot the differenceThe iPhone 6 Plus in dark grey on the left, the iPhone 6S Plus in gold on the right.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSide-by-side it’s almost impossible to tell the difference between 2014’s iPhone 6 Plus and the new iPhone 6S Plus – unless you havea rose gold one that is.There’s a small “S” stamped on the back, the device is 0.2mm thicker and 20g heavier, but everything else on the outside looks the same.The extra weight and thickness is noticeable compared to both the older iPhone and its competitors. At 7.3mm thick and 192g heavy, it is thicker and heavier than Samsung’s 6.9mm thick,153g Galaxy S6 Edge+and heavier thanGoogle’s new 7.3mm thick, 178g Nexus 6P.The iPhone 6S Plus feels nice to touch, but is more difficult to hold than competitors due to its relatively thick bezels. They make the phablet wider and taller than competitors with the same size, or even bigger, screens.Apple has usedharder aluminium for the iPhone 6S Plus’s shellthan on its previous model, and while I can’t attest to its durability – I’ve only had the iPhone a week and it is undamaged – it is a little less slippery than the 6 Plus.The 5.5in 1080p screen, despite being pressure sensitive (more on that later), looks identical to the iPhone 6 Plus. The LCD display is colour accurate, but not quite as vibrant as some AMOLED rivals. It has a pixel density of 401 pixels per inch (ppi) making it similar in sharpness to phablets suchas the OnePlus 2.The5.7in screens of Samsung’sandGoogle’s new phabletsboth have much higher pixel densities of 518ppi, whileLG’s 5.5in G4 screenhas 538ppi. The difference in screen density is visible side-by-side at screen sizes 5.5in and up – text appears sharper – but most users will be satisfied with the crispness of the iPhone 6S Plus’s screen.SpecificationsScreen:5.5in 1080p (401ppi)Processor:dual-core Apple A9RAM:2GB of RAMStorage:16/64/128GB; no SD cardOperating system:iOS 9Camera:12MP rear camera with OIS, 5MP front-facing cameraConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi, NFC, Bluetooth 4.2 and GPSDimensions:158.2 x 77.9 x 7.3 mmWeight:192gAs snappy as an iPhone can beThe iPhone 6S Plus lasts about 25 hours between charges, but can die before you get home on a night out.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe iPhone 6S Plus has Apple’s new dual-core A9 processor with an integrated motion co-processor and 2GB of RAM. Apple says that it is 70% faster than the A8 in last year’s iPhones.Performance is as snappy as any iPhone can be, although still feels sluggish compared toSamsung’s Galaxy S6because of Apple’s use of fixed-speed animations moving into and out of apps and other actions.The increased speed over the 6 Plus was only noticeable when loading or switching between large apps or games, or when accessing the Siri suggest featuresnew to iOS 9. As yet, there aren’t many apps written to take advantage of the extra performance, but some games are coming with better graphics for A9-equipped phones.The phone generally stays cool, but it got noticeably warm while in congested situations in London, where the mobile phone network is oversubscribed.Call quality was excellent, as wasWi-Fi calling, which worked as advertised on EE’s network and could also be shared with other Apple devices such as iPads and Macs.I found battery life has managed to get both better and worse, as standby time has improved over the iPhone 6 Plus, but the battery drains slightly faster with the screen on while browsing, for instance.The iPhone 6S Plus lasted 25 hours on average with hundreds of emails and push notifications, three hours of browsing, several hours of music playback via Bluetooth headphones, a couple of pictures and light spot of gaming. You will need to charge it once a day and occasionally it won’t last until bedtime.That’s about the same as the iPhone 6 Plus and worse than most other competing phablets. I found the low battery mode made little impact on the remaining battery life when it hit 20%, but the milage may vary depending on how you use it. A full charge took about an hour.iOS 9Apple makes a few small additions to iOS 9 for its phablet, such as the homescreen having a landscape orientation and a two-panel mail view showing the inbox and an open email.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe iPhone 6S Plus runs iOS 9, which is available on the iPhone 4S and all newer Apple phones. The OS is slightly more responsive on the 6S Plus in some places, including Siri suggest, but there are very few features exclusive to the new iPhones.Siri can listen out for the hotwords “Hey, Siri” and wake up the phone. This feature was available on other iPhones only when plugged in. You need a quiet environment to set it up, and even then it struggled to learn my voice, requiring repeated mutterings of the pre-defined phrases to get it locked in.For more information seethe iOS 9 review.3D TouchPush harder on an icon and if it has been updated it will pop up a small menu. Not all of Apple’s apps support 3D touch, but the list of third-party apps that do is growing rapidly.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianApple’s new pressure sensitive screen is the marquee feature for the iPhone 6S Plus. It allows more gestures based on how hard you press the screen.Apple’s peek and pop gestures allow you to preview an email without opening it by pressing slightly harder, or enter the email fully by releasing that increased pressure and doing it again. A similar thing can be done with messages, images, links in Safari, contacts in the phone app and so on.Most of the time it just shows you what you would see if you tapped the email, link or message normally. It’s meant to be quicker than popping in and out of messages, but the only time I found it useful was previewing days in the month view of the calendar app.Icons on the homescreen can also be 3D touched to pop up a quick action menu. Mostly this means actions such as start a new message, search or view the last action. Tapping then takes you straight into the compose screen of Mail or Messages.Third-party apps can also implement it. I only found Evernote, which allows you to launch straight into the camera to create a photo note, to usefully implement the feature.More apps will come, and 3D Touch might become a killer feature, but for now it’s a novelty that quickly gets old and has a relatively annoying learning curve as you stab the screen to see what works and how hard you have to press.Touch IDiPhone 6S Plus review touch idPhotograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe iPhone 6S Plus has a new Touch ID sensor, which is much faster than that on the iPhone 6 or 5S, unlocking the phone almost immediately. It’s one of the fastest and best fingerprint scanners on the market,rivalling Huawei’s very fast scanner.I found it was as accurate as the iPhone 6 Plus, recognising my thumb almost every time.Taptic EngineThe excellent vibration system that feels like someone is tapping you on the wrist onthe Apple Watchhas been added to the iPhone. It works very well in the hand, giving much sharper more defined haptic feedback. It’s also quieter when on a desk, but I found it wasn’t strong enough in my pocket. I missed texts and emails as the alert was over in an instant.You can change the vibration pattern to something a bit more aggressive like those used for phone calls, which helped, but then it didn’t feel as good in the hand. Swings and roundabouts.CameraiPhone 6S Plus review - cameraPhotograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe new 12-megapixel camera is excellent and is one of the best on the market, with similar picture quality toSamsung’s Galaxy S6andLG’s G4.It captures images with good detail and colour balance in good light, often resulting in slightly more natural, if a but muted, photos. Low light performance is also good, but neither are a vast improvement over the iPhone 6 Plus.Video capture is good and the camera can record in 4K taking up around 300MB per minute, roughly three times the space required for 1080p video. The switch to enable 4K video is buried in the settings menu so most will probably never try it.The front-facing camera has been boosted to five megapixels from 1.2MP, but the photos are still not exactly fantastic. They will do fine for small shots, but are not a patch on those captured by the rear camera. The flash screen feature works OK for close-ups, but forget anything at arms length or further away.A Live Photo of the development of Battersea power station in London.Apple’s Live Photos are new for the iPhone 6S Plus. They capture 1. 5 seconds of video before and after taking a photo and are very similar toHTC’s Zoe feature from 2013.They are an interesting novelty, which work OK for portraits but will likely not be used much by most. They take up twice the storage on the phone and are difficult to share or upload beyond Apple’s walled garden, much like HTC’s Zoe. They can be used as wallpaper on the phone, but only animate when pressed on.I also found that it could slow down the speed of the shutter, meaning I missed a couple of photo moments and more often than not caught video of the subject moving out of frame or the camera going down.PriceThe iPhone 6S Plus costs £619 for 16GB of storage, £699 for 64GB and £789 for 128GB in silver, dark grey, gold and pink.Phablet competitors such as theSamsung Galaxy S6 Edge+ costs£600 for 32GB of storage and the LG G4 costs £325 for 32GB.No one should buy the 16GB storage versionas it is just not enough space for today’s apps, music, photos and video, particularly if shot in 4K or taking Live Photos.VerdictiPhone 6S Plus review cornerPhotograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe iPhone 6S Plus is the best phablet Apple has ever made, but only just. It is not a significant upgrade over last year’s 6 Plus, with most of its new features take it or leave it affairs.It is also not the best phablet available, but most prospective buyers will be upgrading from an existing iPhone andso are unlikely to considerthe Android competition.The new Touch ID fingerprint scanner is significantly faster. The pressure-sensitive screen is interesting on paper, but in practice has no killer application. The Live Photos are a novelty, but difficult to share and may prove to be something tested then just left off.Users upgrading from an iPhone 5S or older iPhone are in for a treat, however, as the phone is better in almost every way.Pros:fast fingerprint scanner, good camera, good screen, Taptic Engine, extended standby timeCons:battery life of only a day, expensive, heavier, big bezels around the screen make it more difficult to holdOther reviewsSamsung Galaxy S6 Edge+ review: the curvy ‘iPhone 6 Plus killer’LG G4 review: one of the best phablets available, boasting an impressive cameraGoogle Nexus 6 review: big is beautiful, but not manageableOnePlus 2 review: a real ‘flagship phablet killer’?
