The Caveconcept was born more than 20 years ago. In his days at LucasArts, Ron Gilbert (ofMonkey IslandandManiac Mansionfame) began to think about a sentient, wise-cracking cave in which explorers confront their deepest, darkest desires. While the gestation period was long, it turned out to be a worthy pursuit and the result is a witty, nostalgic treat very much in keeping with developer Double Fine's tradition.From a cast of seven eccentric characters, three must be chosen for the descent into the cave. Once inside, they must work together to solve a series of fiendish, funny puzzles, revealing their questionable motives along the way.The classic point-and-click adventure interface makes way for basic 2D platforming, with puzzles requiring the hardy spelunkers to combine items, environmental clues and their special abilities to advance. While this works perfectly well in single player mode, those "Eureka!" moments feel most rewarding in three-player local co-op.The Caveis a well-crafted title, framing dark themes such as jealousy, revenge, greed and cowardice with the kind of eclectic charm and wit for which Gilbert and Double Fine are famed. The only disappointments are a suspect frame rate, and an underwhelming conclusion, which suggests it is a morality tale conspicuously lacking a moral.
When the creative powerhouses that are Studio Ghibli and Level-5 collaborate, expectations are high. The former is the animation house behind films includingSpirited Awayand the latter is an esteemed games developer responsible for the Professor Layton series. Happily, sprawling role-playing gameNi no Kuniis a superb creation, where the player guides the hero, an ordinary boy named Oliver, as he sets out on a dimension-hopping quest to save two intertwined realms.Ni no Kuni, like Ghibli's finest output, is gloriously animated and set in a distinct universe alive with detail. The orchestral score and character design in particular are a highlight and as a window to escapism, it offers access to a land that is charming but never maudlin, suitable for adults and youngsters alike.But it won't be for everyone. Like many Japanese RPGs, mechanicallyNi no Kuniis an intricate beast, where convoluted combat systems and much virtual conversation dominate the action. Level 5 has succeeded in making the game particularly accessible, even for RPG newcomers, without diluting what defines the genre, but be warned: to get the most from this outstanding and exceedingly lengthy release, an immense commitment is needed.
Nothing lasts forever: if history has any lesson for us, it is this. It's a thought that comes from rereading Paul Kennedy's magisterial tome,The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers, in which he shows that none of the great nation-states or empires of history – Rome; imperial Spain in 1600; France in either its Bourbon or Bonapartist manifestations; the Dutch republic in 1700; Britain in its imperial glory – succeeded in maintaining its global ascendancy for long.What has this got to do with technology? Well, it provides us with a useful way of thinking about two of the tech world's great powers. The first is Apple. The past week saw a veritable torrent of hysterical reaction to its quarterly results, coupled withfevered speculation about its future. The globe has been hypnotised for years by Apple's metamorphosis from a failing computer manufacturer into a corporate giant that, on some days, is now the most valuable company in the world, with bigger cash reserves than the annual GDP of some countries. But as with all inexorable growth curves, the question on every commentator's lips is: has Apple peaked?If you think "hysterical" is a bit harsh, then ponder this. Although Apple did not sell the 50m iPhones that had been forecast for the quarter (it "only" shifted 47.8m) and sales of its Mac computers were down somewhat, nevertheless the quarterly results mean that in 2012 Apple earned more in the yearthan any other corporation, ever. And even the quarter's supposedly disappointing earnings of $13.1bn were thefourth largest of all time,according to the same metric. And the reaction of the stock market to this news? The share price dropped 10% in after-hours trading.Then there's the social network Facebook with its billion users, which is likewise the focus of much hyperventilating comment. Recently, the Mark Zuckerberg empire launched its latest deadly weapon with the catchy name ofGraph Search– as in "social graph". Facebook's new tool is just an algorithm that finds information from within one's network of friends and supplements the results with hits from Microsoft's Bing search engine, but to read some of the commentary on it you'd think that Zuckerberg &amp; co had invented either aperpetual motion machineor a through-ticket to hell."Facebook's new search engine attempts to build walls around the internet and keep its horde within its gates," wrote the webmaster of arespected online magazine. "It's a nightmare and it will probably work."Actually, it's Facebook's latest attempt to become the AOLde nos jours. And, in the end, it will fail for the same reason that AOL's attempt to corral users within its walled garden failed: the wider internet is just too diverse, innovative and interesting. But because Facebook looms so large in the public consciousness at the moment, it's difficult to keep it in perspective. Which is why Kennedy's book makes such salutary reading.So what we need to remember as we wade through the current overheated commentary on Apple and Facebook is that nothing lasts forever. I have been in this racket long enough to remember a time when Microsoft was at least as dominant and scary as these two companies are now. Spool forward a couple of decades and Microsoft is still around, but actually it's an ailing giant – profitable but no longer innovative, trying (and so far failing) to get a foothold in the post-PC, mobile, cloud-based world.Although the eclipsing of Apple and Facebook is inevitable, the timing and causes of their eventual declines will differ. Apple's current strength is that it actuallymakesthings that people are desperate to buy and on which the company makes huge margins. The inexorable logic of the hardware business is that those margins will decline as the competition increases, so Apple will become less profitable over the longer term. What will determine its future is whether it can come up with new, market-creating products such as the iPod, iPhone and iPad.Facebook, on the other hand, makes nothing. It just provides an online service that, for the moment, people seem to value. But in order to make money out of those users and satisfy the denizens of Wall Street, it has to become ever more intrusive and manipulative. It's condemned, in other words, to intrusive overstretch. Which is why, in the end, it will become a footnote in the history of the internet. Just like Microsoft, in fact.Sic transit gloria.
Hacktivist group Anonymous said Saturday it had hijacked the website of the US Sentencing Commission in a brazen act of cyber-revenge for the death of internet freedom advocate Aaron Swartz.Swartz killed himself just over two weeks ago as he faced trial for hacking an online collection of academic journals linked to MIT with the intent of releasing millions of research papers on to the internet.The 26-year-old had a history of depression but family, friends and supporters said it was the threat of a prison sentence for an act he saw as a political statement that pushed him to suicide. Since his death, Swartz has become a powerful symbol for hackers and activists fighting internet controls.The website of the commission, an independent agency of the judicial branch involved in sentencing, was replaced with a message warning that when Swartz killed himself two weeks ago "a line was crossed." In a message posted on the website and in an accompanying YouTube video, the hackers said they had infiltrated several government computer systems and copied secret information they threatened to make public.Saying the information was like a nuclear weapon, the group said it had "enough fissile material for multiple warheads" which it would launch against the justice department and organisations linked to it.By late Saturday morning, the USSC website was offline, but cached versions could be found where the message appeared.Anonymous, which has been the target of numerous arrests and FBI probes, has taken a relatively high profile in several cases recently. In the small Ohio town of Steubenville, which has been rocked by rape allegations against several high school football players, the group has organised protests and posted evidence it says shows evidence of a cover-up of the alleged crimes.Anonymous is a loosely defined collective of so-called hacktivists who oppose attempts to limit internet freedoms.It has suffered from some high-profile arrests after attempts in recent years to attack major corporate government websites.Swartz and Anonymous have been firm advocates of open access to information and open-source programming. At a memorial service for Swartz last weekend, several of his supporters called for those who were attempting to prosecute him to be held accountable for their actions.Swartz had faced a possible jail sentence of 30 years, though it has since emerged he was also offered a plea deal of six months.Officials involved in prosecuting the case have insisted they did not over-reach in their aggressive pursuit of Swartz but have faced a storm of criticism for their behaviour.
I didn't have a great Christmas, presents-wise. Wasn't it supposed to be the year of the iPad? I got slippers. And a jar of paprika, weirdly. Everyone else is showing me their lovely new tablets, holding them up. Look, even this bloody car got one. At the touch of a&nbsp;button, a 5.8in colour techy Vorsprung durch Technik wafer emerges out of the top of the dashboard, taunting me. Yeah, all right, it might tell me where to go, plus a whole lot of other stuff, but it's not going to keep my feet cosy, is&nbsp;it? Or spice up my goulash?The peekaboo display screen isn't&nbsp;the only nice thing about the inside of this new A3. I especially like the chrome dials surrounding the air vents – they look good, they&nbsp;feel good. Actually, it all looks&nbsp;and feels good. Not too flashy&nbsp;– classy, understated, like. They like that at Audi, the understated thing,&nbsp;not too shouty.On the outside, however, if anything it's a bit too understated. The lights are different, there are now fashionable creases in its flanks (I'm beginning to develop them, too, as it happens), but the car doesn't look a whole lot different from the previous A3. A non-expert might not even notice. (Speaking of experts, my son had an excellent Christmas, incidentally, his best present being a&nbsp;babygrow with "My dad is a&nbsp;famous motoring journalist" emblazoned on the front.)Anyway, it is actually a whole new&nbsp;car, built on a whole new platform, the same one that the new&nbsp;VW Golf will have. The wheelbase is a bit longer than the previous A3, it's a bit wider, and there's&nbsp;a&nbsp;bit more room in the back and in the boot, where there's now a&nbsp;litre of luggage space for every day&nbsp;of the year (unless it's a&nbsp;leap year). I've got the smallest available (1.4-litre) petrol engine. It's economical and efficient, but it's turbocharged, feels very capable, not underpowered. It handles well, too – perhaps not quite as well as a&nbsp;BMW 1 series, but not far off.OK, so it's not cheap, even this most basic model, and as soon as you start adding stuff, the price will rocket. But then it's a "premium" motor, innit? You're paying for your miraculous tablets that rise from nowhere. You're paying for your chrome dials, your strokable surfaces, your four circles on the front. You're paying not just to go from A to B, but to feel ever so slightly pleased with yourself as you do so. Not ostentatiously or shoutily, mind. But classily and understatedly.Again, I'm seeing something of me in this car. I certainly wouldn't mind one. Maybe next Christmas…Audi A3 1.4 TFSI SEPriceFrom £18,560Top speed126mphAcceleration0-62mph in 9.3 secondsCombined fuel consumption54.3mpgCO2emissions120g/kmGreen rating6/10Cool rating6/10• This article was amended on 6 February 2013 to add a note to the caption about the location of the main picture.
Games out this week include arcade-style flying game,Ace Combat Assault Horizon: Enhanced Edition(below) (PC) in which you take to the skies of Miami, Dubai and Russia among others;Brain Training 3D(3DS) brings a scarcely relevant third dimension to the now largely discredited act of exercising your flabby grey matter; andPower Rangers: Super Samurai(Xbox) uses nightmarishly poor motion control to advance through its brief, turgid levels …Although Sony is remaining very quiet on the subject, there are plenty of rumours about a successor to PlayStation 3 which may finally do away with the Dual Shock, the joypad that has survived more or less unchanged since its launch in 1997. If reports are accurate, Sony is planning a controller with touchscreen and biometric feedback, which measures your heart rate and skin temperature – PS4 might be able to smell your fear.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewEarth Defence Force 2017 Portable exists for one reason: to let you and two carefully chosen weapons from your arsenal loose on a relentless alien horde. As they pour out of vast motherships, it's an exercise in crowd control from the very start, as you use hot lead to temper and whittle away the onrushing swarm. Huge robots, giant spiders and fleets of spaceships fall before the muzzles of your multiplicity of guns, as do buildings and motorway flyovers as you cheerfully destroy the cities you're supposed to be defending. Bellowed in-game dialogue ("They're a herd of people-eating lobsters!") joins the screeches of the vanquished as you lay waste to heaving screen-fulls of invaders in a game that glories in its B-movie trashiness.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewReleased more than a year ago in Japan, Ni No Kuni has benefitted from a staggeringly long localisation process, possibly most evident in your beguilingly undiplomatic sidekick, Drippy. Easily the Welshest videogame character in history, he calls good things "tidy" and his favoured exclamation is "knickers!". Taking in two parallel worlds and the sort of jaw-dropping vistas familiar to fans of Studio Ghibli (who worked alongside developers Level-5 to perfect the animation) this is an adventure that surpasses its occasionally mundane mechanics with characters and scenery that possess extraordinary levels of charisma. Your quest to save the world is closely linked to hero Oliver's mission to bring his mother back to life, a job that gently tugs at the heart strings while bringing a shade of originality to the familiar themes of almost all Japanese role-playing games. Grand in scope and gorgeous to look at, Ni No Kuni is a thing of absorbing beauty.
The Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak has issued a stinging criticism of the new biopic of his fellow computing pioneer, the late Steve Jobs, after a clip from the film was released on the internet before  its premiere at the Sundance film festival.The clip shows actors Ashton Kutcher (as Jobs) and Josh Gad (as Wozniak) discussing the merits of the computer operating system Wozniak has just developed. Jobs is seen trying to inspire a sceptical Wozniak as to the potential future impact of home computers, before the Wozniak character shouts: "Nobody wants to buy a computer. Nobody!"However, Wozniak, 62, in a series of messages posted on the Gizmodo website where the clip first played, said the portrayal was "not close". "We never had such interaction," he wrote. Denying the accuracy of the scene he also stated: "I'm not even sure what it's getting at ... personalities are very wrong."Wozniak, who is known in the tech community as "Woz", also implied that far from Jobs being the inspirational leader, at that time it was far more probable that Jobs was learning from Wozniak about the possibilities of personal computing.His idea was to make a $20 PC board and sell it for $40 to help people at the club build the computer I'd given away.  He always saw a way to make a quick buck off my designs."Wozniak continued: "I never looked like a professional. We were both kids. Our relationship was so different than what was portrayed. I'm embarrassed but if the movie is fun and entertaining, all the better. Anyone who reads my book iWoz can get a clearer picture."• jOBS, directed by Joshua Michael Stern, is due to be released in the US on 19 April but does not have a UK release date yet.
Samsung Electronics has cemented its position at the top of the mobile phone business, ahead of archrival Apple, after the technology group posted a 19% increase in sales but warned of a looming slowdown in the market.The South Korean firm, whose products range from memory chips to mobile phones, said fourth-quarter sales climbed to 56tn won (£32.2bn) while profits increased by 78% to 7tn won.However, it spooked investors by warning of general uncertainty in the outlook for the consumer electronics market and announced a freeze in capital expenditure. Samsung's executives noted during a conference call that smartphone sales would probably slow down during the first quarter, with the company expected to replace its flagship Galaxy S3 smartphone before April. Samsung Electronics shares fell 2.5%.Even so, analysts said it would tighten its grip on the mobile business, where it has taken over from Apple and Nokia. "Even though they said demand for smartphones will slow down in the first quarter, Samsung will likely buck the industry trend and its own smartphone sales will go up," said Byun Han-joon, an analyst at KB Investment &amp; Securities.Samsung offers dozens of smartphone and feature phone devices at a range of prices, unlike Apple which has stuck with its high-end iPhone. This has led analysts to mark down Apple's future profitability as the market for expensive phones becomes saturated.Key to Samsung's record profits were smartphone shipments. Unlike Apple, which announced this week that it had shipped 47.8m phones during the fourth quarter, Samsung does not provide specific numbers, but gives analysts guidance on the figures. Research company IDC put the figure at 63.7m, while Strategy Analytics put it at 63m. That would give Samsung roughly 30% of the smartphone market overall, and Apple about 20%.The next largest smartphone maker was China's Huawei, according to IDC, with a market share of just under 5%. IDC reckoned Samsung shipped a total of 111.2m mobile phones in the fourth quarter, ahead of Nokia's 86.3m.Apple is ahead of Samsung in the courtroom, however, having won $1bn in damages from the South Korean firm in a patent case in the US last year. Samsung has dropped a legal attempt to ban sales of some Apple products, which it claims have infringed its intellectual property, in five European countries including the UK.Elsewhere in the results, the components division, which makes semiconductors such as memory chips and processors for Apple's iPhone and Samsung's own phones, helped boost profits.Samsung is also working on flexible displays that could be used in tablets and phones, but despite showing off the technology at an industry show in Las Vegas this month it is not yet ready to move into mass production.
The sentencing of three self-styled "hacktivists" on Thursday brought down the curtain on the notorious hacking clan Anonymous, after a campaign of cyber-attacks waged from the bedrooms of young men in London, Northampton and Hartlepool.Christopher Weatherhead, a 22-year-old university student, saw himself as a fierce defender of internet freedom as he orchestrated attacks on PayPal, Visa and MasterCard. He used the online pseudonym Nerdo and described himself as "the best (or worst) hacker in the world".After one attack against the perceived enemies of WikiLeaks, he boasted: "We have probably done some million pound of dmg [damage] to mc [Mastercard]". He encouraged a campaign against PayPal that cost the firm £3.5m to repair.Like his co-accused, Weatherhead believed he would never be caught. Initially he refused to reveal his internet nickname to detectives and answered "no comment" to most questions during two police interviews. "I'm fighting tooth and nail to prevent the police from accessing any data on anything they seized," he wrote in a chatroom after his second interview in April 2011.But the game was over for Weatherhead on Thursday when he wassentenced to 18 months in prison. He showed no emotion as he was led out of the dock at Southwark crown court while his parents and sister looked on from the public gallery.His lawyer, Mark Ruffell, had pleaded for a non-custodial sentence, saying Weatherhead's "nerdiness" would make him a target in prison. "He won't be the first or last youth to try and change the world and come a cropper," Ruffell said. "The thought of a custodial sentence fills him with dread and anxiety."Weatherhead's co-conspirator, Ashley Rhodes, a 28-year-old IT worker from Camberwell, south London, was jailed for seven months. Peter Gibson, 24, a church volunteer from Teesside, was given a six-month suspended sentence for his lesser role in the conspiracy. Another student, Jake Burchall, 18, will be sentenced next Friday.The judge, Peter Testar, said the distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks were "not particularly sophisticated" but had caused severe temporary damage to the websites of several multinational companies."The defendants were actually rather arrogant," Testar said. "They thought they were far too clever to be caught and used various methods to try to cloak and preserve their anonymity. It seems to me that the police were a little bit more clever than the conspirators."Detectives investigating Anonymous found all the evidence they needed in online forums known as internet relay chats, or IRC, where the hackers would discuss targets and boast about the success of their attacks. Logs obtained by the police showed Gibson suggesting an attack on Lily Allen's website in retaliation for her anti-piracy stance, before he had second thoughts and said he did not wish to "attack artists". The day before his arrest, Rhodes pondered whether attacking a US company would be "too risky".By the end of the campaign in support of WikiLeaks, dubbed "Operation Payback", the hackers had become complacent. Attempts to keep their identities secret started to unravel.Detectives told Rhodes during his interview that photographs of him connected to his pseudonym, Nikon Elite, were available on at least two websites. He was the only one of the four found with specialist hacking software, known as a Low Orbit Ion Cannon, on his personal computer. He was arrested at his work desk, from where he had joined in with cyber-attacks on the Ministry of Sound website.Police said Weatherhead had acted as a liaison for the world's media – including the BBC, al-Jazeera and ABC in Australia – as the hacker collective entered the public spotlight. With the growing profile came a growing sense of invincibility on the part of the young hackers.Birchall, then 16, told fellow online vigilantes as police arrived at his Chester home to arrest him: "Fuck the cops … Im closing everything." He told detectives he was an advanced user of the internet and had used it for nine years – since he was eight years old.He maintained that he had not committed a crime but admitted to running servers for Anonymous during attacks on PayPal, Visa and MasterCard. Birchall, Rhodes and Gibson all pleaded guilty to conspiracy to impair the operation of a computer.TheAnonops websiterun by Weatherhead remained silent on Friday, with a weeks-old message on its homepage acting as a sign of its dwindling defiance. It said: "We decry this persecution of one of our own, one who commited [sic] no crime and is being targeted simply for his association, real or imagined, by overzealous feds who seek to cut off the head of an idea, a group which has no leader."We wish the very best for Chris and if there is truly justice in this corrupt world we live in, he will be exhonerated. Chris, we stand with you, always."
Apple has discovered multiple cases of child labour in its supply chain, including one Chinese company that employed 74 children under the age of 16, in the latest controversy over the technology giant's manufacturing methods.An internal audit found a flipside to the western consumer's insatiable thirst for innovative and competitively priced gadgets. It uncovered 106 cases of underage labour being used at Apple suppliers last year and 70 cases historically. The report follows a series of worker suicides over working conditions at Foxconn, the Taiwanese company that assembles must-have products such as the iPad and iPhone, and lethal explosions at other plants.Apple's annual supplier report – which monitors nearly 400 suppliers – found that children were employed at 11 factories involved in making its products. A number of them had been recruited using forged identity papers.The report uncovered a catalogue of other offences, ranging from mandatory pregnancy tests, to bonded workers whose wages are confiscated to pay off debts imposed by recruitment agencies. They also found cases of  juveniles being used to lift heavy goods, workers having their wages docked as a punishment and one factory dumping waste oil in the toilets.One Chinese supplier, a circuit board component maker called Guangdong Real Faith Pingzhou Electronics, was axed by Apple after 74 children under the age of 16 were recruited to work on its production lines. According to Apple, the children had been knowingly supplied by one of the region's largest labour agencies, Shenzhen Quanshun Human Resources. Its investigators found that the agency conspired with families to forge identification documents. Apple did not disclose the ages of the children involved, but its code of conduct states it will not employ workers under the age of 15, or under the legal working age in any jurisdiction – which is 16 in China.Apple's chief executive, Tim Cook, who in a previous role was responsible for building Apple's supply chain, has been under pressure to push through changes after the suicides at Foxconn, whose manufacturing operations are largely based in China. Last September a brawl involving up to 2,000 workers forced Foxconn to close a plant in northern China.Last year he described the use of underage labour as "abhorrent", saying it was "extremely rare in our supply chain", and stepped up measures to weed out bad practice including hiring  an independent auditor, the Fair Labor Association."Underage labour is a subject no company wants to be associated with, so as a result I don't believe it gets the attention it deserves, and as a result it doesn't get fixed like it should," said Jeff Williams, senior vice president of operations at Apple. He vowed to eradicate the practice, but said it could take some time.At Pingzhou, the children were returned to their families and the employer was "required to pay expenses to facilitate their successful return". Although 95% of the facilities scrutinised by Apple complied with child labour laws, transgressors were told to return minors to a school chosen by their family, pay for their education, and give them an income equal to their factory wages.Bonded labour was discovered at eight factories. In order to find work, some foreign labourers pay fees to a string of recruitment agencies and sub-agencies, amassing huge debts. Their wages are then automatically handed over to pay the debts, tying them to jobs until the balance has been paid off.Apple ordered its suppliers to reimburse excessive recruitment fees – anything higher than one month's wages – and said $6.4m (£4m) was handed back to contract workers in 2012.Investigators found 90 facilities that deducted wages to punish workers, prompting Apple to order the reimbursement of employees. Mandatory pregnancy testing was found at 34 places of work, while 25 tested for medical conditions such as hepatitis B. At four facilities, payroll records were falsified to hide information from auditors, and at one, a supplier was found intentionally dumping waste oil "into the restroom receptacle".Apple said it took measures to protect whistleblowers, and that it made 8,000 calls last year to workers interviewed by auditors in order to find out if they had suffered intimidation.
The smartphone wars are, essentially, over. Samsung and Apple have won the battle of the manufacturers; Android has won the battle for market share, though it remains to be seen which of the two giants - the South Korean manufacturer or the Californian designer - will win the battle for profits.Thelatest figures from research company IDC for the mobile market for the fourth quarter of 2012and the full year show that the smartphone market now belongs to Apple and Samsung. By IDC's reckoning (because Samsung does not publish figures, but gives "guidance" to analysts), Samsung shifted 63.7m smartphones in the fourth quarter, while Apple shipped 47.8m. Together, they comprised more than 50% of the whole smartphone market - which itself comprised 45.5% of the whole mobile market.Apple and Samsung combined percentage of smartphone sales in fourth quarter of 2012 (source: IDC)In other words, one in four of all phones shipped during the fourth quarter was a smartphone from either Apple or Samsung. In the smartphone space, Samsung had a 29% share, up from 22.5% a year ago, and Apple a 21.8% share (23% a year ago), IDC says. The next biggest was Huawei, with just under 5%.There's no particular reason to think that either Samsung or Apple is going to pack up their bags and go home. Despite all the noise around Apple's "disappointing" results (because it did pretty much what analysts forecast - always a mistake), the murmurs about another iPhone, or even a lower-cost but new iPhone model (rather than the lower-cost but old iPhone model using the iPhone 4 casing) do make some sense if the company wants to expand its presence in markets unlike the US, where the carrier subsidy model distorts the market in the iPhone's favour.Given that, and given that Nokia hasn't shown any signs of breaking the market (it sold just 770,000 Lumias in the US in the fourth quarter of 2012), it seems reasonable to say that the war is over. Windows Phone will get some share, RIM's BlackBerry will get some share, but Android has the majority - anywhere from 60% to 70%, depending - and Apple has about 20%.Year-on-year growth in all mobile phones, featurephones and smartphones. (Source: IDC)The figures also show how rapidly smartphones are taking over the market.The featurephone market is shrinking, quite fast: it has gone from around 300m phones per quarter during 2011 to about 250m in 2012 (and fell by 15% year-on-year in the fourth quarter), while smartphone numbers keep growing, rising by about 40% per quarter. Some time this quarter, smartphones will make up more than 50% of the world total.But what's "smart"?You can argue about whether some of the low-end Android handsets being sold in the US, Europe or China ever get used as smartphones; many as just used as pay-as-you-go (aka "prepaid") phones.Equally, should Nokia's Asha range should be included as a smartphone? Presently it isn't, because you can't install third-party apps, a key measure that companies such as IDC and Gartner use to define "smartphones". but they can connect to the internet for browsing and email, which is why the Opera browser shows up so much in mobile statistics.)On Nokia's measure, it sold just 6.6m smartphones (4.4m Lumias running Windows Phone, and 2.2m running Symbian) but also 9.3m Asha handsets - which would, if you include those, mean 15.9m "smart" phones, and make it the third-biggest smartphone seller.Instead, though, the top five smartphone sellers on IDC's measure are Samsung, Apple, Huawei (10.8m), Sony (9.8m), and ZTE (7.5m). It's telling that RIM, Nokia, HTC and Google-owned Motorola have all dropped out of that and that LG, supplier of the Nexus 4 for Google, isn't in there either. While Nokia managed to eke out a profit from the fourth quarter (bolstered by the sale of Vertu, patent licensing and Microsoft's injection of cash to push Windows Phone) there's no sign of a sudden ramp in sales. And almost all of those companies are loss-makers, apart from HTC and Sony, which have just managed to keep their handset businesses in profit.The barbell-shaped marketDuring ARM chipmaker Qualcomm's fourth-quarter results call its chief financial officer William Keitel offered this insight: "The OEM [mobile handset] market is kind of getting to be a barbell, where you have one end of the barbell with names that we all recognise. But the other end of the barbell has a lot of names that very few people recognise concentrated in Asia. And it's that visible name in one end of the barbell that people tend to focus on and where data is more readily available. The other end of the barbell, the data can be hard to come by."Barbells, of course, are large at both ends and thin in the middle. Keitel was talking generally about the proliferation of handset makers, where there are enormous numbers in Asia churning out cheap handsets (increasingly, using Android, or AOSP - the Android Open Source Platform, which doesn't "call home" to Google when the phone is activated).The dominance of Samsung and Apple in terms of volume leaves few pickings for the rest. "HTC makes beautiful phones running Android. But it's in terrible trouble," says Benedict Evans, telecoms and technology analyst at Enders Analysis. Just offering Android isn't a guarantee of success for anyone except Google, and even it has challenges in the Chinese market, where AOSP phones make up an increasing number of the "Android" phones recorded in statistics.Market share of manufacturers in smartphones and overall mobile market, 2Q 2011 - 4Q 2012. (Source: IDC)In this barbell market, Apple is firmly ensconced at the high end, though its policy of keeping older iPhone models which can be sold by carriers for lower upfront prices on contracts means that it's not confined to the very top niche. Samsung makes a colossal variety of phones and smartphones; it's a company that gives the lie to the idea that you can't be vertically integrated. (In fact Apple and Samsung are a fascinating contrast: one owns pretty much no manufacturing facilities, but outsources all manufacture; the other owns everything, from silicon fabrication plants right up to phone assembly plants. It certainly shows that there's no point in being didactic about the best way to win in the market.)Samsung's fourth-quarter resultsdon't break out its revenues in any useful way; there's no clue about how many phones or tablets it produced, or what they produced in revenues, or their average selling price. In that sense, Samsung's a financial black box.We know it's a behemoth. But it's easy - and wrong - to see its flagship devices such as the Galaxy S3 and Note 2 and think that those made up pretty much all of the 63.7m sold. They don't; Samsung's own figures, from its announcement on 10 January that it hadshipped a total of 100m Galaxy phones, was easy to misinterpret.But Samsung was clear about it: the Galaxy S3 shipped 30m in five months, 40m in seven months. The Galaxy S2 had shipped more than 40m in 20 months. (Which logically leaves the original Galaxy S at somewhere under 20m.) Compared to the number of smartphones Samsung has shipped since the launch of the Galaxy S in March 2010 - which total 321m - it's clear that Samsung isn't just at the high end. It's everywhere - high, middle and low end. And it has the marketing muscle and spend to shove lesser players such as HTC out of the picture through promotions that put its phones (and tablets) in front of anyone who steps into a phone store. Nothing wrong with that; it's the reality of the modern market, where sheer scale is the determinant.Small pickingsWhen Steve Jobs introduced the iPhone in January 2007, he said it was "five years ahead of anything else out there". Those five years have elapsed, and some; and the rest have caught up, so that there's more homogeneity out there than ever before. Even RIM's new BB10 interface (shown in this video) is based around a black slab touch screen with a grid of icons (for app collections), with the addition of two screens - one dedicated to email, the other to showing running applications. The swipe-to-switch gestures aren't that dramatically different from what you'd find on Android or iOS. Only Windows Phone offers a genuinely different interface.The dreams that companies and operating systems such asJollaand theFirefox mobile OSare nice, but in essence they're experiments. Jolla might have a vague chance of gettingsome traction in China, but then again, it has to attract a developer ecosystem around it - and why would you write for Jolla when there will be hundreds of millions of Android/AOSP phones to target there?It's true that Nokia said there would never be another open mobile OS after Symbian - and look what happened to that. Does that mean there will be nothing after Android? Not at all; we're going to want smarter OSs to handle, for example, the wearable computing that's coming along (think of the Pebble smartwatch and Google Glass) as well as the explosion in addressable devices coming with IPv6. What will that be? Hard to know, but it won't necessarily be Android. It might even - who knows? - be QNX, which underpins RIM's BB10.Room for growthSmartphone share of mobile market to 4Q 2012. (Source: IDC)How much bigger can the smartphone market grow?Given that the overall mobile market is pretty stable at around 450m units per quarter (varying seasonally), and that as a rule of thumb you can usually expect that there will be 20% of any market that will stubbornly stay with simpler (cheaper, longer-lived) phones, smartphone shipments could probably hit 360m per quarter in 12 to 18 months.That implies that there's room for another 140m smartphones to be sold every quarter - an increase of 63% on the market as it stands now. But much of that will be at the lower end of the barbell, in China and the rest of Asia; the US market is pretty much saturated (80% of phones sold there now are smartphones), and Europe is headed that way, with smartphone usage above 50% in many countries.But as above, it will be slim pickings for any company that isn't Samsung or Apple. Samsung in particular shows an ability to carpet any market with its handsets - apart from China, where "white box" handset makers are prospering.Update: Evans has a splendid illustration, in a blogpost he titles "Polarisation, continued", of the way that Samsung and Apple are sucking the air out of the room for the name vendors. He also has this graph, where each successive quarter shows the revenue for the respective companies:Revenues of Samsung, Apple, and other handset vendors by quarter from 3Q 2011. (Source: Enders Analysis)It comes with the caveat that the Samsung figures include revenues from both featurephone and smartphones, and that Chinese OEM "white box" makers (the other end of the barbell) aren't included. Nor are Huawei or ZTE, as they don't provide consistent figures.Next stop: servicesAs Microsoft is discovering in the PC market, hardware is the new software - being able to offer an integrated product makes the real difference (hence its efforts with the Surface). But in smartphones, services are the new hardware and software.Having a great screen and great camera isn't a differentiator any more. Having lots of apps in your app store is a given. What now distinguishes smartphone platforms is having really good services. Google of course has not just maps, but also email, cloud storage and Google Now - a feature that really marks it out from all the other platforms. Apple has iMessage, as well as its iCloud mail and document service, the iTunes Store (with all those films, books and music) and its own maps (you could put those on the plus or minus ledger). Nokia has Maps and Nokia Music.It's noticeable that Samsung is making its own effort to split from the rest of the Android pack, by offering services such as S-Voice (powered by the same backend as Apple's Siri) and its Samsung-specific Android apps (for the Galaxy Note's stylus, for example). For Android rivals such as HTC, LG and Motorola, any adoption by Samsung owners of those apps makes them less likely to change to another handset maker, and imperils them further. (It's not as big as the jump from Android to iPhone, though, which some do make; even so, it's not trivial.) Samsung is also making moves to offer music and video through its own iTunes-like store; it knows that just making hardware isn't enough.Update: and don't forgetSamsung's deal with Dropbox, offering 50GB of storage for free for two years. That'sten timesmore than Google offers by default in Google Drive, and Dropbox will upload your photos automatically - just like Google+, but completely separate.Where next?If the smartphone wars are really over, what comes after? As above - the obvious next step is the phone that you don't need to look at, but which alerts you by voice or visual message when you need to know something. Wearable, pocketable - it's likely to be an evolution from what we're seeing now (as the smartphone was from the featurephone; think of the Asha as the missing link, maybe) and which - let's hope - will change our lives for the better too.
Makeb, the gay planet, is the sort of problem that comes about when a series of perfectly reasonable decisions takes a development team to a very weird place. For Bioware, this journey began when the company made love an option in its massively multiplayer game, Star Wars: The Old Republic. The developers created ten male characters and ten female characters, a nicely symmetrical field of potential romantic interest.But for some reason, the nature of those relationships was limited to heterosexual interaction only – an odd decision from a studio that has featured same-sex relationships in its Mass Effect and Dragon Age titles. Immediately, the team announced that it would be updating its romantic content, but early in January, the game's executive producer, Jeff Hickman warned that this was going to be a complex process, and hinted that compromises would be necessary. And the compromise is Makeb, the gay planet, available only via download – and the only place in the galaxy where relationships can be formed with NPCs of the same gender.You can see the well-meaning thought processes involved in trying to fix this narrow issue. We need to put gay character options in the game. We'll do that through DLC so it doesn't impact on the existing world. We'll put them all in one easily accessible place. And thus: a gay home world, a segregated community available only to high-level paying players. Unsurprisingly, this has attractedsome ridicule.There's a wider issue here about what games assume their players want. In Funcom's conspiracy-led MMO, The Secret World, players in the Dragon faction will experience the same sexually charged opening scenario with a female partner, whether they want it or not. It assumes your character's sexuality for you, before you've gotten to play them - straight man, or woman not averse to having sex with other women - and it also makes a big assumption about what you as a player desire to view and consent for your avatar to do.In film, thetheory of the male gazenicely covers the propensity for cinematography to assume, almost unconsciously, a straight male viewer. Some games and game marketing materials embrace this approach wholeheartedly, not just in cinematics but in playable game elements too.This is bigger than just gaze: this is a straight male hand at the controller, in front of the screen. This is dialogue options for romance with female characters that assume you, the player, are both sexually attracted to women and happy to see sexualised content in game. It's Ivy. It's Catwoman. It's every female zombie in Dead Rising wearing a bikini. It's even Samus from Metroid taking off her armour, relying for her shock value on the assumption that the person watching is male. It's the overwhelming majority of silent Everyman protagonists being male, not because they need to be male but because that's the default. And it's the assumption that the man in question is straight, cis, white.In games the problem is more pronounced than in cinema, because of the nature of player interaction. Watching something isn't the same as playing something; players psychologically identify with their avatars, their characters, oftenvery closely. Experiencing your character doing something you wouldn't choose them to do can be profoundly jarring and disconcerting, something that Bioshock used to great effect. As a storytelling technique it's a very powerful tool, but it's also easy to accidentally break immersion (and really annoy a player) by forcing them into paths they wouldn't want to take - as LA Noire proves.Bioware did manage to do better than most. It seems strange to be giving a company credit for making a pay-to-gay planet, an ostracised world of same-gender romance, but to be fair to SW:TOR, a nicely equal gender split of romanceable characters is not a bad place to start. The problem, again, is the assumptions made about precisely what players want to experience through their avatars - the assumption that certain kinds of lived experience aren't important enough to represent or offer for their world.There is a common response when gamers or critics argue that this situation is problematic. It goes: this is just what video games are like. It's dangerously close to saying: this is all that video games can be. And it's incorrect. There are some games with perfunctory romance elements that assume it just doesn't matter if you're male or female, gay or straight - Skyrim, for instance, has one of the most egalitarian (if shallowest) romance systems around. Bioware's other titles Dragon Age and Mass Effect have joined older series Fallout and RPGs like Vampire the Masquerade: Bloodlines in letting you seduce, romance, and sleep with various characters in a more organic system based on the preferences of the NPCs involved.In some of those games your choices also affect the game world around you, as other NPC reactions to your sexuality become part of your personal story. But it's vanishingly rare that a game will assume homosexuality in the way that most assume heterosexuality. Those that do are often created outside the mainstream, for the reasons Anna Anthropyoutlined at Indiecadelast year.In the end, sexuality, gender, race and the wide gamut of human relationships are going to become a larger part of video games as they mature. Maturity doesn't just mean sex, gore and banned substances. It means diverse stories told and diverse ideas expressed - human interactions, of all sorts, among them. Despite our ability to empathise and identify with characters who are different to us, restricting players to a single viewpoint in an interactive medium means restricting the number of players who want to play - and that alone is enough for companies like Bioware to broaden the field. What matters is that game creators don't keep getting stuck in just one mould, when the world is full of other options. There are more than enough stories for everyone.
Analysis of updated Google Earth satellite images has identified what appears to be another of North Korea's notorious prison camps.Blogger Curtis Melvin, who publishesNorth Korean Economy Watch, discovered a new development next to existing prison Camp 14, sharing 3km of fencing, and near the disused Camp 18.While not confirmed as a new prison, Melvin observed a "striking similarity" to existing camps and a visible security fence. He has speculated that the area is an extension of Camp 14, a new camp or a new type of facility altogether.Melvin said this new area was constructed some time between December 2006 and September 2011, and has identified what appear to be guard posts, a staff entrance, residential units and an abandoned coal mine.The brutality of North Korea's prison camps was revealed last year in a book by defector Shin Dong-hyuk, who worked with formerWashington Postreporter Blaine Harden to tell of his experience since birth in Camp 14.North Korea's camps are estimated to hold as many as 200,000 people, many incarcerated because they are related to a previous prisoner, have attempted to make contact outside the country or for "insulting the Kim dynasty".Prison camps in the remote and mountainous region of North Korea are the most severe, with reports of gas chambers and chemical experiments, according toAmnesty International.Shin told of the forced labour in the camps, including a factory sewing military uniforms and dangerous and often fatal work in coal mines. He eventually escaped at 23, and now lives in Seoul, South Korea.The "Hidden Gulag" report by the US Committee for Human Rights in North Korea last month praised Google Earth for its high resolution imagery, which has allowed camps to be identified, monitored and confirmed detailed testimonies from escapees.The Google executive chairman, Eric Schmidt, drew criticism for avisit to North Koreaearlier this month, with the US state department describing it as "ill-timed", though the power of the search giant's mapping tool has been praised.After his four-day visit,Schmidt said North Korea needed to empower its citizensthrough access to the global internet.
Welcome to this week's roundup of new and notable iOS apps, covering apps and games for iPhone and iPad. It follows the publication earlier in the day of the weeklybest Android appsroundup.As ever, the pricing relates to the initial download, so often when you see (Free) there may be in-app purchases or subscriptions involved once you start using the app. Read on for this week's picks:Anne Frank (£6.99)Penguin and Beyond the Story's new Anne Frank iPad appPublished by Penguin Books and developer Beyond the Story, this is a new iPad take on Anne Frank's famous diary, including the original text, audio extracts read by Helena Bonham Carter, notes, documents and maps; timelines of Anne's life, and lots more video, audio and archive material.iPadEndless Alphabet (Free)Endless Alphabet is a wonderfully playful phonics app for children, starring a parade of monsters introducing a word for each letter of the alphabet. Children get to drag letters into place, hear their sounds and definitions for each word, and watch comical animations to illustrate the meanings.iPhone / iPadWave Trip (£1.49)Musical game Wave Trip is getting lots of buzz online, and thoroughly deserves it. The game sees you guiding a "geometric astronaut" through colourful worlds, all of which can be "remixed and edited" like a piece of music. You can create your own levels and share them with other players too. A beautiful, inventive piece of work.iPhone / iPadVine (Free)Released by Twitter subsidiary Vine Labs, this social app is already causing a stir – not least with Facebook, which blocked it from letting people connect to their Facebook friends. Silicon Valley rivalries aside, it's an intriguing app: you shoot six-second videos which then play on a loop within Vine itself, and within your tweets.iPhoneH&amp;M (Free)A brand new app rather than an update to H&amp;M's previous iPhone app, the big deal here is that you can buy clothes from within the app, rather than simply browse the retailer's collections. The app also promises vouchers and offers, and news and videos on new fashion trends. It's one of the slicker shopping apps I've seen on iPhone.iPhoneMight &amp; Magic Clash of Heroes (£2.99)One of the famous old names in RPG gaming gets spruced up for iOS, as you take five heroes on a quest to save their world. The game offers a 20-hour campaign to work through, as well as live and asynchronous multiplayer games online. The puzzle-battle system is where the fun lies, as you tweak tactics to crush opponents.iPhone / iPadMoves (Free)Fitness gadgets like Fitbit and Nike's FuelBand are all the rage in early 2013, with their companion apps. Moves is an app that does away with the gadget part of that equation. It aims to track your daily walking, cycling and running for you, then display it all in a timeline and on a map.iPhoneCat Doorman's Little Red Wagon (£1.99)There's a big opportunity for children's apps that blend stories and songs, with Night &amp; Day Studios the latest developer to explore it. This is based on an album of children's music called Cat Doorman's Songbook, taking one of its songs – folk tune Little Red Wagon – and accompanying it with beautiful hand-painted illustrations and a scrolling score.iPadRescue Rush (Free)There's some innovative work being done to incorporate location into mobile gaming, with publisher Red Robot Labs one of those involved. Its new game is a bit like Pac-Man, except with a giant cat rescuing animals and avoiding scientists. The twist is that it's played on a stylised map of the real streets around your current location.iPhone / iPadCubase iC Pro (£11.99)A premium price for a professional music app: this is a remote-control app for the Cubase audio software, focused on musicians using it to record their songs, creating up to four dedicated cue mixes to adjust their mix from the iOS device.iPhone / iPadNFL Quarterback 13 (£1.49)In good time for the Super Bowl comes developer Full Fat's follow-up to last y ear's American football game, which sees you lobbing long bombs to your receivers while battling against the wind and opposing linebackers alike. Whizzy 3D visuals meet casual gameplay – it's very good fun.iPhone / iPadInstructables (Free)Now owned by graphics firm Autodesk, the Instructables website remains an excellent resource for recipes and do-it-yourself projects. Now there's an app for that, which not only enables you to browse the projects from the site – more than 100k in all – but also to create your own, with photos.iPhonePebble Smartwatch (Free)This is the companion app for the Pebble smart-watch, which has just started shipping to the people who crowdfunded its $10.3m Kickstarter campaign. The watch connects to this app using Bluetooth, enabling it to show incoming calls, emails and messages on the watch.iPhoneStow - the modern packing list (£1.49)Genuinely an app I've been looking for for some time now, Stow is a packing list for trips, with an easy template-based way to create and tick off whatever you're packing for a holiday or business trip. Lists can also be shared by email, or between Stow apps on different handsets.iPhoneDeko (Free)Many iPhone owners I know use photos as their wallpapers, but Deko aims to provide an alternative: stylish wallpaper images that you create yourself by swiping its patterns around the screen. A neat and creative idea.iPhone / iPadSwipp (Free)Swipp is interesting: a way to share your opinions with other people, and see what they've been saying about a place or topic too. Its developers have a grand ambition – "building the largest collection of open knowledge on every topic in the world" – although as ever the concern here for users is the risk that if it takes off, someone bigger will buy it for the data and/or development team then shut it down (as happened with an app called Stamped in 2012).iPhoneKids Discover Antarctica (£1.99)Actually just one of several educational iPad apps released by Kids Discover in the last week, but this one has penguins so got the nod for inclusion here. You can't argue with penguins. It's a slickly-designed guide to Antarctica for children, offering 3D models, video, audio and photographs, quizzes and snappy text.Other apps availablecover galazies, cells, space, extreme weather and Washington D.C.iPadMen's Fitness Cover Model Body Plan (£1.49)If using an app like Moves (see above) helps you shed some pounds, how about packing on some muscles? This new app from Dennis Publishing's Men's Fitness magazine offers a four-week plan to "make your six-pack stand out". As opposed to your great big beer-filled gut stand out, as may be the case.iPhone / iPadSerendip (Free)Serendip's subtitle is "Free Music Radio", and that's exactly what you're getting: a stream of music it thinks you'll like, based on your tastes and social connections. Every user has a profile on the app so you can see who's similar, and the music itself comes from YouTube, Vimeo, SoundCloud and Bandcamp (hence why the app is free, presumably).iPhoneMushroom Wars (£1.99)Originally a hit on Sony's PSN service for PlayStation 3, Mushroom Wars has now been ported to iPad. It's a cutesy real-time strategy game with 27 maps for your mushroom characters to battle their enemies on, while upgrading weapons and beefing up their army.iPadCracking Sands (£2.99)Switching genres, Polarbit's new game is a racing game promising "a band of merry lunatics driving small vehicles fitted with big guns". So it's about shooting as well as driving, with customisable characters and vehicles, and a choice of single-player or online multiplayer modes.iPhone / iPadMontblanc Timepieces (Free)"Part biography, part chronography and all beautiful," is how Montblanc describes its new iPad app, which captures the fact that it's no mere digital catalogue. The app focuses on 40 of the company's watches, with photos, 3D models and a "True View" feature to see how they'd look on your wrist.iPadLearn Maths with Beluga (Free)Beluga Learning has been receiving high praise from education experts even before the launch of this, its first app. Aimed at children, it sees them exploring virtual islands completing a range of mathematical challenges, accumulating multipliers for their scores as they go.iPadThe 500 Hats of Bartholomew Cubbins (£2.49)Another week, another book-app based on a Dr. Seuss tale from publisher Oceanhouse Media, which is working its way through the catalogue with aplomb. This tells the story of a boy desperately trying to take his hat off to the king, only to find other hats appearing in its place. Marvellous rhyming prose, voice narration and word-highlighting make this fun for young readers.iPhone / iPadFinds (Free)This looks interesting: an app for showing off the items you find while shopping, tipping other people off about them. And, of course, digging into the tips uploaded by other users, complete with photos and links to buy those products online. It'll only work if enough people use it, of course.iPhoneSpraffl (Free)Location-based messaging? The jury's out on quite how many people want to do it, but Spraffl hopes enough will to make its app useful. The idea: you post anonymous messages that people nearby can see: "Break some local news, comment at an event, make an honest review, pay someone a compliment, tell your neighbours to pipe down or share a joke with your colleagues," encourages its App Store listing. Again, it'll only be as good as the amount of people using it.iPhonePantheon the Legends (Free)Card-battler games are proving pretty popular in the West, having exploded some time ago in Japan. Pantheon the Legends is the latest to go live on iOS, getting you to collect a deck of cards based on classical gods and heroes, then fight against other players over the network.iPhoneVuemix Video Browser (Free)Here's a new take on video search, with an iPad app that enables you to search for a topic and see nine video thumbnails on-screen at once when deciding what to watch. The videos are sorted into categories, although unfortunately it's not yet available in the UK.iPadWeezic Augmented Sheet Music (Free)Something for musicians here: a digital sheet-music app for iPad that turns pages automatically, but also accompanies you with a virtual orchestra. It includes 14 free scores, with more to come (presumably using in-app purchases) in the future. It's based on the existing Weezic.com site.iPadYoga Studio (£1.49)It's been out on iPhone for a while, but Yoga Studio has now been upsized for iPad. It offers 30 yoga classes with high-definition video showing you what to do, but also lets you create your own classes or browse a library of 280 yoga poses.iPadThat's this week's roundup, but what apps have you been enjoying on iOS this week? Post your recommendations, or your views on the apps above, in the comments section.
Heavy snow is forecast for the weekend again, so you can forget that road trip to grandma's. Instead, you should be settling in front of the fire downloading new video games. Here are five recent console releases I'd recommend, all of which can be bought digitally, and all of which should keep you occupied until the great thaw.The Cave (Sega, PC, PS3, Xbox, Wii U)A new adventure game from Ron Gilbert, the co-creator of Monkey Island and Day of the Tentacle, was always going to be worth a look, just for the sake of nostalgia. But this darkly funny morality tale is a fine quest in its own right, filled with gently challenging puzzles and lateral humour. There's no incentive to replay once you're done, but you'll have a good few hours of entertainment.Demon's Souls (Sony, PS3)If you missed From Software's hugely challenging action RPG first time round, it's worth catching it as a newly available download from PSN – especially if you've since played and loved its successor, Dark Souls. Indeed,  plenty of purists prefered the original title's utterly uncompromising design.Fractured Soul(Nintendo, 3DS)Developed over several years, this enormously challenging sci-fi platformer uses both 3DS screens at once, providing a sort of double vision Metroid. Switching between the displays is the central mechanic, but really this is a rock hard, old school scrolling adventure that makes only begrudging concessions to modern gameplay foibles like regular check points. Just prepare yourself.Mighty Switch Force (Nintendo, Wii U)This compelling puzzle platformer was actually released last year but it's currently on sale and is well worth downloading if you've bashed the heck out of all the decent Wii U launch titles. You're a cyborg cop rounding up escaped prisoners across a colourful world infused with anime style – and you can play the whole thing on the GamePad screen if someone else is hogging the TV.Earth Defense Force 2017 (Sony, Vita)This rather scrappy-looking third-person shooter has been drawing mixed reviews, thanks to its basic visuals and tortured voice acting. However, if you like splatting giant bug invaders with hundreds of different weapons while apocalyptic explosions poke you in the eyes there's a huge amount of fun to be had in here.
Welcome to this week's roundup of the newest and most notable Android apps and games released on the Google Play store.As ever, the pricing refers to the initial download: when you see (Free) it may well mean freemium, with in-app purchases or subscriptions. The weekly iOS roundup will be published later in the day.For now, here's this week's pick of new Android apps:Temple Run 2 (Free)A week after its iOS release (and more than 20m downloads of that later) Temple Run 2 makes the leap to Android. Asexplained in our full review, this sequel bumps up the graphical quality and adds more depth to the original endless runner, as you swipe to jump, slide and turn your way through the scenery to escape an angry giant monkey.Gogobot (Free)Social travel service Gogobot wants to help you discover interesting places to holiday based on other people's experiences, with an app to browse their virtual "postcards" and reviews, scout out more than 60k destinations and then book hotels to stay in.Super Hexagon (£0.59)Super Hexagon has a devoted fanbase on iOS, where its super-tough "minimal action" gameplay and pulsating chiptune soundtrack have been keeping gamers occupied.ESPN X Games (Free)ESPN's extreme-sports X Games events have their own Android app now, offering video highlights, news, results, schedules and a "TrickTrack" feature that gives more data on the tricks that athletes are pulling off during the competitions. The link above is for Android smartphones, but theseparate tablet version is here.Banjo (Free)Social app Banjo has been around for some time on iPhone and Android, but it's just got a dedicated tablet version. The app pulls in friends' updates from Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Foursquare and LinkedIn, tying it to real-world places to show you who's where.Pebble (Free)Pebble is the companion app for the Pebble smart-watch, which has just started shipping to the people who crowdfunded its $10.3m Kickstarter campaign. The watch connects to this app using Bluetooth, enabling it to show incoming calls, emails and messages on the watch.Smart Data (Free)This is interesting from MasterCard: an app to help people keep better track of work expenses, taking and uploading photos of receipts, tagging them with date, amount and description details. It ties into the existing Smart Data service.FilmOn Family TV (Free)Online video service FilmOn has been controversial in the past, and its new Android app could cause a stir too. It promises to enable anyone to stream live TV channels from the US, Europe, Latin America and Asia. Standard-definition streams are free, but it charges for HD feeds.Pool by Miniclip (Free)Miniclip reckons this is "the world's best multiplayer pool game", which is quite a claim. Now Android gamers have the chance to test it, as the game is available on Android. It sees you sinking balls in practice, 1-vs-1 and tournament modes, with a level and ranking system ensuring you're matched against similar opponents, competing for virtual currency to upgrade your skills.Ikaruga (£5.62)Best known in recent years for its Xbox Live Arcade incarnation (and in the past for its Dreamcast and GameCube versions), Ikaruga is an excellent-looking shoot 'em up with all the ships, enemies and bullets you could wish for on a smartphone.NASCAR Mobile '13 (Free)Good news for fans of NASCAR racing – in the US and abroad – there's an official app for the 2013 season. It promises news, video clips, photos and social media feeds, as well as upcoming fantasy games and even live footage and in-car audio – although it remains to be seen if non-US users will get all those features.LifeKraze (Free)Focused more on Americans, although it is available elsewhere, LifeKraze wants to get people posting 160-character messages about their daily accomplishments, while distributing 300 virtual points a day to other people's updates that they think are worthy. The idea: those points can then be spent on discounts from brands like The North Face and Skullcandy. Bragtastic.Mood O'Clock Alarm (£1.67)Music startup Stereomood has a new alarm clock app for Android, which promises to let you "choose the morning mood you want to be woken up to" and get a suitable soundtrack for it, along with an image. Moods include calm, dreamy, energetic and even "furious".Galaga Special Edition Free (Free)Here's more retro shoot 'em up action on Android with a new version of Namco Bandai's Galaga. This Special Edition offers 25 levels and boss battles, with advertising funding the action – something that's causing some debate in its Google Play reviews over where the ads appear during the game.House Of Hell (£3.99)It's a nostalgic week on Android for sure. This app from Tin Man Games is the latest in its interactive remakes of the Fighting Fantasy gamebooks from the 1980s. It puts you in the position of a hero battling through monsters and traps through dice-rolling skills alone.Restaurant Story: Valentine's (Free)This is a topical (well, it will be in February) game from social games publisher TeamLava based on its popular Restaurant Story. This Valentine's edition involves building a romantic restaurant, customising its menu and visiting those of friends – all funded by in-app purchases.Hushed (Free)Hushed is one of a wave of apps promising "disposable, anonymous, private phone numbers" for use, including anonymous text messaging. "Perfect for dating, job searches, short-term projects, craigslist, Twitter, Tumblr, and other social media," as its developer claims. Although also more nefarious uses, obviously.BlueBox (£0.50)BlueBox's inspiration is clear, and indeed explained in its Google Play listing. It's an electronic-instrument app based on Yamaha's Tenori-On, enabling you to play melodies by tapping dots arranged in an on-screen grid.Old School Defense (£0.63)Based on Will Ferrell movie Old School, this is a tower defence game from developer Big Blue Bubble that sees you trying to fend off gatecrashers to a college party, with two modes and more than 30 maps to play on.Whip (Free)Whip wants to be the way you create "social photo albums" from your Android device, gathering them into templates with up to 24 pics at a time, then sharing them with friends via email, Facebook or Twitter. Music and text can be added too.Ski Tracks (£0.79)Ski and snowboard-tracking app Ski Tracks has been a wintery hit on iPhone, but is now available for Android too. It runs in the background and tracks your snowsport activities throughout the day, while also showing maps, stats and geotagging any photos you take. A useful feature stops it running if your battery is getting low, to avoid nasty mountainside surprises.Climate Defense (Free)More tower defence, but this time tackling the real-world issue of climate change. It involves placing trees to absorb clouds of carbon dioxide before they reach the atmosphere. It's the latest game from Game the News – recently in the news when its Endgame: Syria game wasrejected by Apple.DriveBit (Free)DriveBit has one use, but it could be a good one for people using the Fitbit health tracking gadget. The app helps you stop Fitbit from misinterpreting a rattly drive as a steps.Line Runner 2 (Free)The first Line Runner game was a big hit with more than 25m players, but now it's got a sequel. It's an endless runner with stick-men, with power-ups, social leaderboards and – a feature that more mobile games should have – an easier "Kids Mode".AMP+ (£0.66)AMP+ is a music player for Android devices that aims to be simpler and more intuitive than the default app. You can create and edit playlists, switch music using lockscreen controls, and use a persistent "Now Playing" bar to keep tabs on what you're listening to, among other features.Merge Records (Free)Indie label Merge Records' artists have a firm following, so this catch-all app should be pretty popular. It offers news, gig details and streaming music from the label's roster.Mobile World Congress 2013 (Free)This is one for mobile-industry readers really: an unofficial app for February's Mobile World Congress trade show in Barcelona. Expect venue details, conference session info and exhibitor data, for use while at the show.Update:this app isnotofficial, the show's organisers have informed me, so I've updated this description.Snap Pad (£0.59)Snap Pad is limited to working on certain Samsung devices – it uses the company's S-Pen SDK for stylus control. It's a scribbling app for "moderately important, temporary thinkings" – not important enough for full memos and more important than simple doodles. Well worth checking out if you have a Galaxy Note device.Anycabs (Free)Anycabs is one of a clutch of minicab price-comparison and booking apps in the UK, working in London, Manchester and Birmingham at the time of writing. It promises more than 10k licensed minicabs in its database, to provide a range of quotes for journeys.Brian Blessed Alarm Clock (£0.69)The title says it all: wake up with Brian Blessed shouting at you, with a pick of 30 alarms – "a mix of shockingly bad Shakespearean hacks, silly songs and motivational encouragement". Perhaps check your volume settings before going to sleep, mind...That's our selection, but what apps have you been enjoying on your Android smartphone or tablet? Make your recommendations or give your views on the apps above in the comments section.
Friday! Your gaming plans for the weekend please. I think I shall be finishing DmC and maybe moving on to XCOM, plus some Lego Batman 2 with the kids.
Twitter has launched a standalone video-sharing app for iPhone calledVine, which enables users to share clips up to six seconds in length, which play on a loop within tweets.Available on Apple's App Storeas a free download, the app will come to other platforms in due course according to ablog post by VP of product Michael Sippey, introducing the app.The app is the result ofan acquisition Twitter made in October 2012of a startup called Vine, which hadn't actually launched its app at the time it was bought. Users of the new app are encouraged to log in using their Twitter, although it's not a requirement.In aseparate blog post, Vine co-founder Dom Hofmann describes the aim of the new app, comparing its six-second maximum video length to Twitter's 140-character tweet restrictions:"Posts on Vine are about abbreviation — the shortened form of something larger," writes Hofmann. "They're little windows into the people, settings, ideas and objects that make up your life. They're quirky, and we think that's part of what makes them so special."News of the app's imminent release leaked out yesterday whenTwitter CEO Dick Costolo posted a Vine videoof someone preparing a steak tartare, including a link to the official @vineapp account on Twitter:Steak tartare in six seconds.vine.co/v/bOIqn6rLeIDvia @dhof&mdash; dick costolo (@dickc)January 23, 2013As you can see, Vine clips automatically play when embedded in tweets, although their sound is turned off by default. The clips also play within Twitter's official mobile app. Users can add locations to their clips – the app draws on Foursquare's places database for that – with three options for sharing: Vine, Twitter and/or Facebook.Why launch Vine as a standalone app rather than a feature within the official Twitter app? It's likely the same strategy as Facebook's Facebook Camera app: a separate app can be iterated more quickly to figure out what features work best, before integrating them back into the main app later.The lack of an Android version at launch will draw criticism, however, given that Twitter would be expected to have the resources to handle the necessary porting and testing required for a simultaneous cross-platform launch.
Microsoft's cash hoard has grown by $5 billion to $68bn in six months, as the software giant's latest results show its core Windows and Office products remain a must have for business customers.Revenues at the Windows division soared 24% in a year to $5.88bn, Microsoft revealed at its second quarter results on Thursday. In sharp contrast to Apple's shock failure to hit analyst targets the day before, Microsoft's numbers were in line with expectations.The arrival of Windows 8 in October contributed – the company said earlier this month it had sold 60 million licences to date. But analysts pointed to the popularity of older versions, with millions of corporate customers rushing to upgrade to Windows 7 because Microsoft is ending support for Windows XP, which debuted in 2001."One of the biggest stories in 2013 is the business transition from Windows XP to Windows 7," said Bob O'Donnell at market research firm IDC. "There are a staggering number of machines still running Windows XP. The IT guys have to pull the plug on those and upgrade, and most will do that by buying new machines."Windows software remains a licence to print money for Microsoft, which now has $6bn of cash in the bank and a further $62bn in short-term investments.Revenues in the December quarter were up 3% to $21.5bn and profits down 3% to $7.8bn, both ahead of Wall Street forecasts."Our big, bold ambition to reimagine Windows as well as launch Surface and Windows Phone 8 has sparked growing enthusiasm with our customers and unprecedented opportunity and creativity with our partners and developers," said chief executive Steve Ballmer.But he gave no update on sales of the Surface tablet, the device produced to show off the first version of Windows adapted for the touch screen. Morgan Stanley puts the number shipped at a modest 1.5m units.Nokia's full year results earlier Thursday shed more light on the progress of Windows Phone, the operating system it has adopted for its high end Lumia handsets.The Finnish mobile phone maker reported an operating profit of €439m, ending six straight quarters of losses, as consumer demand for its smartphones revived and the decision to slash its workforce by 20,000 helped to conserve cash.The company has returned to growth, with net sales up 11% on the previous quarter to €8bn. But it has also broken with tradition by scrapping its dividend for the first time in more than a century in order to conserve cash.Sales at Microsoft's entertainment and devices division, which houses Xbox, Skype and Windows Phone software, were down 11% to $3.77bn. The games console remains America's most popular but sales have slowed while customers hold out for a new model which could come as early as this summer.Demand for machines on which to store ever expanding archives of electronic corporate data helped deliver a 9% lift in revenues at the servers and tools division, while online also grew. Microsoft's search engine Bing!, a poor second to Google in many parts of the world, surprised with a 15% jump in online advertising revenue driven by an increase in the amount advertisers pay per search.
Coders who use the popular code-sharing site GitHub were put on alert on Thursday after it was found that many have been inadvertently posting private files, including their private encryption keys, there.The concern arose because the search function on the site made those private credentials searchable, potentially compromising their use of online services all over the web – in effect publishing the equivalent of their passwords for all sorts of sites, and making them accessible to any browser.Overnight, GitHub's search function stopped working, though the site didn't acknowledge the cause. It simplysaid on its status pagethat "Search remains unavailable. The cluster is recovering slowly and we continue to monitor its progress. We'll provide further updates as they become available."GitHub is a source code repository which lets developers work on programs together as a team, even when they are in different locations. Each repository on the site is a public folder designed to hold the software code that a developer is working on.The public folders are copies of private folders stored on the developers' own computers, so each developer can work on their own version of a piece of source code, and only commit changes to the public repository once happy with them. An individual in charge of a software project, called a maintainer, can then evaluate the versions of the same software held in different repositories, and select the best ones to become part of the main source code.Launched in 2008, GitHub appeals particularly to open-source software developers: it offers a free hosting option for open-source public repositories with unlimited numbers of public collaborators.In keeping with its open-source ethos, GitHub offers a search tool. Visitors can use its search facility to search for repositories and source code. The problem is that developers were putting private files into their repositories, which were then being copied into public repositories and made searchable.On Thursday, software developers on Twitter started posting web links to searches for sensitive files using GitHub's own search tool. These included private "keys" for SSH, a popular encryption and authentication technology. SSH keys are often used instead of passwords to gain access to online services.Computers running Unix (including Linux and Macintosh machines) store a user's SSH keys for regular use, and also store a "known hosts" file, which contains a list of the online services that they can access with the keys. Publishing these keys and files would be like publishing a list of your passwords to popular web sites for everyone to use.But the tool that generates SSH keys stores them in a user's home directory – and researchers said that many users were inadvertently copying these into their GitHub repositories along with other files, making them available in a public search on the Github site."One thing that's troubling about this is that these folks have let hosts they're connecting to be compromised, which probably means that you can compromise their own account," said Dragos Riui, a Canadian security researcher and founder of the annual CansecWest security conference, which will be held in Vancouver in March."That means that you can trojan up their projects, too. You could modify the source, and put a backdoor in it so that you could make the users of that source code project also vulnerable". But because the attacker would have used the official programmer's keys, there would be no sign that an unauthorised change had been made.Other types of sensitive keys were also in danger, including private keys created for encrypting email and other communications using services like GNUPG.After people began posting links to searches on Twitter, others began to caution them: "People posting github repo security screw-ups: *please* tell the maintainer and give them time to respond before posting here,"tweeted one. "It would be responsible of @github I think to blacklist some well-known private files like ~/.ssh/ and ~/.gnupg/,"said another.Emerson Tan, an organiser at security vulnerability information site PacketStorm Security, pointed to developer inexperience as a key contributor to the problem. "The risk of trojanised software isn't huge; what is more worrying is that so many of the developers don't get fundamental security concepts," he said. "Just because you can code doesn't mean you understand security fundamentals. There is no barrier to coding."But who is culpable? The users publishing their private keys by mistake, or the sites who reveal such details in search engines? Dan Kaminsky, a researcher who found a fundamental bug in the internet's domain naming system several years ago, said that it's the users' problem."I don't think anyone's going to say that Git should not add a warning," he said. "But that's not the role of the archive, to be sniffing around and blocking things."But when it happens to people in large numbers, it becomes a broader problem, said one Twitter user who works in the security field. "When one person pushes their private key to GitHub, it's an idiot problem. When a hundred people do, it's not about idiot users anymore,"the researcher said.Github co-founder Thomas Preston-Werner did not return the Guardian's calls. Neither his Twitter account nor GitHub's official account acknowledged the flaw at the time of writing. However, several searches that had shown private files earlier in the day no longer worked.This wouldn't stop a determined hacker, though: Google searches for the private files using advanced search operators still revealed private keys unwittingly posted by GitHub users as of 5am GMT, Friday.Kaminsky downplayed the event. "If some of those projects are actually significant, then yes, you've got problems. But GitHub's enormous," he said. "An attacker can target a certain number of developers that use Github. Do any of those developers work on something that is significant?"One security researcher, Veracode's Melissa Elliott, claimed on Twitter to have found a target. "Oh jeez just found an ssh password to a production server of a major, MAJOR website in China on Github," she tweeted on Thursday.GitHub isn't the only source repository to experience this issue, and it isn't a new concept. "Googledorks" – people who leave sensitive files and credentials exposed to indexing by the search giant – have long existed, and there are websites that deliberately expose them.The sudden focus on the problem followed aGitHub blogpost on Tuesday, in which spokespeople highlighted major upgrades to the site's search engine. "Finding great code on GitHub just got a whole lot easier," it said. It is unlikely that the search upgrade introduced the problem, but it may have caused hackers to begin exploring the site in more detail.Now that this flaw has gained public attention, it will put the onus on developers to check and purge their sensitive files – and their software. "We've no idea how long this has been going on," said PacketStorm's Tan. "Some enterprising bastard has probably vacuumed up all the results and is going through it right now. Seriously, that is what you have to assume in the case of a credential compromise."
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft's ARM blunder: 7 reasons why Windows RT was DOA &gt;&gt; The RegisterNeil McAllister:maybe we're not supposed to view Windows RT devices the same as we do other tablets. Maybe we're meant to see them as a new category of portable connected device, somewhere between a tablet and a traditional PC.Let's suppose we're meant to view a Windows RT device as an inexpensive, low-powered computer in a highly portable form factor. It runs a Microsoft OS, but its small screen, underperforming processor, and limited hardware resources make it best suited for lightweight tasks, basic word processing, and browsing the web. Fair enough?Hang on, though. That sounds suspiciously like a netbook - and we all know what happened to netbooks. The same customers who had a hard time justifying netbook purchases in recent years will struggle to see the value in Windows RT devices, particularly given the proliferation of low-cost, full-featured Windows notebooks.Microsoft didn't give any indication of how many Surfaces it sold during its quarterly results on Thursday.Acer expects full-year loss &gt;&gt; WSJ.comAcer Inc.expects to post a full-year loss for 2012 amid a US$120.1m write-down on the value of the brands it owns, as the personal-computer maker struggles to revive its business in a highly competitive market. It will be the company's second-straight annual loss.Acer, the world's fourth-largest PC maker, said Wednesday that it wrote down trademark rights for the Gateway, Packard Bell, eMachines and E-Ten brands after an annual review. A spokesman for the company said the write-down won't affect business operations, but declined to give more specific details ahead of the release of Acer's annual report in early March.The news saw Acer's shares crash. No, actually, they rose 0.2%.Affidavit by MPEG LA chief supports Microsoft's interpretation of Google patent license agreement &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsLawrence Horn, in an affidavit:"Licensee or its Affiliates" is standard in the grant-back clauses of MPEG LA's MPEG-2, 1394, DVB-T and AVC Patent Portfolio Licenses (in the AVC License, Licensees also do not have the right to extend sublicenses to Affiliates). The purpose of this language is to prevent a Licensee from avoiding its grant back obligations through its affiliates (who then have the opportunity to hold licenses and licensors hostage to their essential patent claims for failure of the grant-back clause to apply to them) while the Licensee takes advantage of a license under all of the Licensors' essential patents. We believe this is a matter of fairness, and it has caused no problem in other licenses.Horn was in charge of sorting out the patent licensing for the H.264/AVC standard. He's provided testimony for a Seattle court about how grant-back (reciprocal licensing between members of the patenting group, or - crucially - its affiliates who acquire it) works. Motorola - and subsequently Google - has been trying to get Microsoft to pay annual royalties of up to $4bn, reduced subsequently to demands of $100m or so. Horn's intervention means it might be just a few hundred thousand dollars.Nokia sales down 79% in China as Symbian dies, Lumia slow to grow &gt;&gt; Tech In AsiaIf you thought Nokia's China figures for 2011 were a disaster, you should see what just emerged today. Nokia's China nightmare is clearly not yet over as the country's growing middle-class continuesto pick up iPhones and Android smartphones. That's the picture painted by Nokia's full-year 2012 report that came out today. It shows Nokia sales revenue down 79% in China from the previous year, and phone units plummeted 69% to a mere 4.6m sold in the final quarter of last year.China is very, very important for Nokia.Apple sees iPhone sales double in China &gt;&gt; Tech In AsiaC. Custer (founder of Chinageeks.org):There have been lots of rumors that Apple is interested in making a low-cost smartphone for China.I don't buy it, and in the company's quarterly earnings call, Apple released some information that indicates they may not need any new offerings in the Chinese market to spark growth. According to the company, iPhone sales in China "more than doubled" year-over-year in Q1 2013. CEO Tim Cook said that the company is "extremely pleased" with the "exceptional growth" in iPhone sales in China.Calling China: how mobile startup Jolla will sell an Android alternative &gt;&gt; ForbesParmy Olson:Jolla cofounder and CEO Marc Dillon claims that many of China's mobile users are sick of Android. "Standing out is really important in Chinese culture," he says. Last June he struck a distribution deal with D.Phone, the nation's largest mobile phone retailer, with 2,000 stores, to sell Jolla's first model this summer. ST-Ericsson is making the processors for Sailfish phones, and Jolla tapped into its network to find a local handsetmaker.Jolla now does R&amp;D in Hong Kong, where local and Chinese chipset vendors, handset and component makers, and retailers are part of an alliance. The partners are kicking in $270m to get Sailfish phones in the hands of Chinese consumers. While Sailfish is open source - cynics might opine that everything in China is open source - Jolla also plans to make money via licensing deals and selling its expertise to install the platform on locally made handsets.Chris Chant calls for goverment IT heads to step down &gt;&gt; Computer WeeklyOutspoken former government IT reformer Chris Chant has called for the resignation of the Cabinet Office's chief operating officer Stephen Kelly and chief procurement officer Bill Crothers following the procurement of an Oracle enterprise resource planning (ERP) framework worth up to £750m.The former G-Cloud head slammed Kelly and Crothers for rubber-stamping the deal, which he described as an outrageous waste of money.The ERP tender, worth between £250m and £750m, is being led by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) as part of the government's shared services strategy. It will cover existing Oracle platforms across departments.In his own words: Tim Cook on Apple earnings and more &gt;&gt; MacworldFrom Cook's call with financial analysts after the results on Wednesday. The principal message that seems to come through repeatedly is that supply was constrained - rather than demand being down. And this:Let me make one additional point on this: I know there's been lots of rumors about order cuts and so forth, and so let me just take a moment to make a comment on these. I don't want to comment on any particular rumor, because I would spend my life doing that, but I would suggest it's good to question the accuracy of any kind of rumor about build plans. And I'd also stress that even if a particular data point were factual, it would be impossible to accurately interpret the data point as to what it meant for our overall business, because the supply chain is very complex, and we obviously have multiple sources for things. Yields might vary, supplier performance can vary, the beginning inventory positions can vary, I mean there's just an inordinately long list of things that would make any single data point not a great proxy for what's going on.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Where are Apple's good new ideas? After another lukewarm show ofquarterly earningson Wednesday evening, that's the question both consumers and shareholders have been asking. Apple needs to dazzle consumers to make up for the way their faith was shaken by the disastrous introduction ofits new Maps applast autumn. Yet when announcing new products, Apple continually introduces tiny tweaks when only quantum leaps will do.Apple's failure to impress, financially, is a sign that the company is at a cultural inflection point as well. After thelaunch of the iPad in 2010, the company that became known for thinking big and deep – think iTunes, think ecosystem – has been thinking obsessively small and shallow. This has been reflected in a strange preference for launching new products with style over substance. What's the difference between theiPhone 5and theiPhone 4S? What's the difference between the iPad and theiPad mini? Size, mainly, and not much else. This is not, in the words of the old Apple tagline, thinking different. Apple can keep selling these products profitably – and it has, to the tune of 48m iPhones in the past three months – but even the dimmest corporate mind can see that it's not sustainable to keep making small improvements and expect big impact.This is not the Apple people grew to love. That Apple didn't make its fortune by preaching to the choir, by giving its users more of the same things they could already see; it made its fortune by telling people what they wanted, by being good enough to convert people to its cause. "Making perfect products makes you Bang &amp; Olufsen," says Ron Adner inThe Wide Lens, his book about innovation. Adner was speaking of the boutique,Danish, high-end maker of audio and video products. They are immaculate, expensive and popular with a small group of dedicated consumers. That can't be Apple's path.Apple has one challenge to learn: do not become the next Microsoft. Apple grew to its current prominence by flying under the radar: being cute and small and unthreatening, so that competitors didn't see it coming. They were willing to strike deals with Apple, to throw it scraps. Now we've seen an Apple that is biting the hands that feed it. It bared its teeth at Google with  the Maps app, sued Samsung on the premise that Apple invented the "rounded corner", and has tried to extract high prices from magazine publishers. This is Microsoft behaviour. "The problem with dominance is that it's very easy to turn from being aggressive to being abusive," says Adner.Apple's cultural appeal is that it was supposed to be the smart, nimble one. It can't be the bullying, hubristic tech giant that can make billions on a small suite of products and be satisfied with that. As Microsoft shows, that kind of coasting means abdicating a reputation for greater innovation in the future.Many other companies are allowed to fail, but Apple, in the popular imagination, is not. As one pundit sagely pointed out: Apple always has to be better than Apple. It may be the only company in the world for which investors get concerned when it makes only $54bn in 90 days. It has $137bn of uncommitted cash. This is a company whose stock price should never see a bad day. But it's not so simple. For Apple, its financial performance follows its cultural clout - not its ability to manufacture cute little rounded white gadgets, but to manufacture a sense of cool.Culturally, we're wrestling with a larger question: is the old Apple gone? That company - the old Apple - became the largest corporation in the US based on a mix of innovation, perfectionism, big ideas and sheer, unmitigated cool. Roger Kay, an analyst with Endpoint Technologies Associates, attributes that toSteve Jobs. "Steve Jobs was unequalled in his ability to keep being cool. Whatever he was talking about was cool - like the Beatles," he told me. "Now Apple are beginning to face the problem of not necessarily being the coolest thing out there."For Apple to be cool again, however, it has to admit that it is in danger of becoming uncool. Gathering from the feisty tone of Tim Cook, the chief executive, with analysts on Wednesday, Apple isn't there yet.
The man who was awarded the first software patent says that he thinks the field is now "a big mess" - but that he "hopes it will get straightened out in time".Martin Goetz, 83, was awarded the first patent on a piece of software in April 1968, fora method of sorting data. As US Patent No.3,380,029 it marked a watershed that would eventually lead to the rise of Microsoft, and then to the "smartphone patent wars" that have been fought out between Apple, Samsung, Motorola, Microsoft, HTC and Google.But he thinks that Amazon's patent on its "1-Click" product is absurd, and that Apple's on the "pinch and zoom" for pictures is questionable.Computerworld - then a newspaper - greeted the news of his patent award in 1968 with the front-page headline "First Patent Is Issued For Software, Full Implications Are Not Yet Known".Goetz was working for a company called Applied Data Research, in an era when mainframes were the only computers around. As he explains in a short film about inventors, made by David Friedman for PBS Digital Studios, IBM - the dominant force in computing - was making profits on the hardware but giving the software that went with them away for free."Back in the 1960s, IBM and other computer companies were giving away their software when they sold their computer. We were trying to sell out software, but selling against free software is very difficult. That's the reason I tried to get a patent."IBM had a sorting system they were giving away free and I didn't want them to copy that method and also distribute it by giving it away for free."Goetz couldn't have applied copyright law, because that wouldn't have protected the specific method he had invented - only the code he had written to achieve the sorting. But in 1964 he had been to a conference on software intellectual property issues, which persuaded him that a patent could be awarded for a piece of software. The key element for a patent is that it should have an "inventive step" compared to existing methods for carrying something out. But all previous patents had been for physical products - not for an abstract system of doing things to a generalised machine."So I applied for a patent. And fortunately I did get a patent." Filed on 8 April 1965, the patent was granted on 28 April 1968.Since then software patents have become enormously valuable - used by companies (including IBM) to squeeze rivals. Earlier this week it was revealed that Apple's Steve Jobs threatened to start a patent war against Palm unless it agreed to a deal whereby it wouldn't try to hire staff away from his company. Palm's chief executive, Ed Colligan, rebuffed Jobs and pointed out that the idea was illegal.More recently Apple was awarded $1.05bn in damages by a US jury over infringements by Samsung on a number of patents relating to smartphones and tablets.Goetz though is unrepentant, and has been an advocate of software patents.He also says that with his help, ADR helped to create the independent software industry by going to the US Department of Justice, which at the time was looking at antitrust action against IBM. "I and several others who were selling programs against free software [from computer makers] thought it was unlawful. ADR pushed for IBM to unbundle their software; that was the start of the software industry. It was also the start of people and companies applying for patents for their software inventions.But he acknowledges that the whole field has become "very controversial". He thinks that Amazon's One-Click patent - valid in the US but repeatedly turned down in the European Union - "should never have been awarded", and that Apple's pinch-and-zoom patent for enlarging or shrinking content displayed on its iOS devices is "questionable" on the basis that it might be thought "obvious"."It's a little bit of a mess," Goetz says, with grand understatement. "Hopefully it will get straightened out over time."Update:Brian Kahin, senior fellow at the Computer &amp; Communications Industry Federation, got in touch with the following thoughts:"There is considerable irony is Goetz's account. Indeed, IBM was opposed to software patents until the antitrust suit against the company was dismissed (after 13 years). Software patents were not common because the US Supreme Court had issued opinions that said that mathematical algorithms were not patentable on their own."IBM started acquiring software patents very rapidly, since they already a substantial patent department. When the MIcrosoft-IBM partnership to develop OS/2 broke up in 1990, IBM presented Microsoft with its portfolio and extracted a $20-30m settlement. That's when Bill Gates wrote a famous internal memo decrying software patents."Nonetheless, Microsoft started acquiring them and was the only software company testifying in favor at the hearings held by the USPTO in 1993-94."IBM thenstarted shaking down Silicon Valley. Eventually, other software companies acquired their own portfolios and learned to like them because they protected market positions against new entrants.  However, patents had nothing to do with theriseof the microcomputer software industry.  Copyright, secrecy, trademark, complexity, speed to market were enough...."• More reading:Wikipedia page on Martin Goetz
This week on Tech Weekly, Guardian digital correspondent Jemima Kiss meets the skilled digital journalistChristian Paynebest known by his twitter name @documentally.  Christian opens up his kit bag and discusses everything from multi-plugs and pro cameras, the tools of his storytelling trade.Jemima also reports on theDLD13conference that took place in Munich this week.  She meets data scientistDJ Patilfrom the venture capital group Greylock Partners and discusses the ever growing importance of data technologies in the world economy.And we have a roundup of this week's tech news. The music featured in this edition is byAlex Ronin aka Local Spirit.
In case you missed it, Nintendo did one of its regular 'Direct' online presentations yesterday. Once again the company's president Satoru Iwata stood in front of a white background looking friendly yet somehow also faintly Orwellian – and once again he brought us the latest news from the Nintendo mother brain.This time, it was a range of new game announcements for the Wii U console. Here's the lowdown:Two new Zelda titlesZelda series producer Eiji Aonuma revealed that two Zelda titles are venturing toward the console. One will be a re-make of the stylised Game Cube classic Wind Waker, featuring HD visuals – it's coming out in the autumn and will be playable on TV or GamePad display. More intriguing, though, is a totally new addition, promising to "re-think the conventions of Zelda". It seems we can expect a more open game world and one that may support collaborative or competitive multiplayer in new ways. We may have to wait until 2014 for this one, though.Super Mario returnsNintendo's EAD Tokyo software development team, previously responsible for Super Mario Galaxy and Super Mario 3D Land is working on a fresh Super Mario title. Iwata referred to it as a '3D Mario action game', so no more of that New Super Mario Bros stuff. It will be playable at E3.More Mario Kart!Naturally, the long-running karting series is bound for Wii U. There's no info at present, but it'll be interesting to see how the GamePad figures here. It'll be a steering wheel obviously, but what else? Will we slide our fingers across the screen to launch shells? Again, there will be playable code at E3.Yarn YoshiTakashi Tezuka, director of Yoshi's Island and Yoshi's Story, is supervising the first title to feature the loveable dinosaur as a lead character since 1998. It's being handled by the team behind beautiful Wii title Kirby's Epic Yarn, and similarly, it pitches the lead character into a cute handicraft world. Sounds adorable.Fire Emblem and Shin-Megami Tensei combineThis is one to get JRPG fanatics frothing at the mouth – a combination of the two classic role-playing series', developed by Nintendo and Atlus. Iwata also promised that the company is working on other similar creative collaborations and will be revealing more details soon.Wii Party continuesThe popular party game collection will return this summer, featuring plenty of interesting GamePad interactivity. In the Nintendo Direct video, we see one mini-game that requires you to shake the pad to roll dice, and another that has two players competing in a teeny baseball sim on one GamePad screen. There's even a sort of Twister variation that gets a group of competitors to touch different buttons on an array of Wii Remotes and GamePads, entwining their limbs in the process. Saucy.New title from Monolith SoftThe creator of the hugely acclaimed RPG, Xenoblade Chronicles, is working on what looks to be another epic fantasy quest. It's being directed by Tetsuya Takahashi, a veteran of the Final Fantasy series before setting up Monolith. Check out the video for some gigantic monster battles.Virtual ConsoleNintendo's retro gaming service is coming to Wii U after a system update in the spring. It will allow users to download classic titles from the company's lengthy back catalogue. Iwata explained however that we won't immediately see all the titles currently available for Wii and DS. Instead, we'll get a selection of NES and SNES titles (at £3.49 and £5.49 each, respectively), 'newly developed' for the Wii U – these will be playable on the GamePad display or on a TV, and will support Miiverse functionality. Other platforms including the Game Boy Advance will be supported later. Advance Wars!There was also anew trailerfor Platinum Games' intriguing action strategy title Wonderful 101 and abehind-the-scenes teaserfor Bayonetta 2.Importantly, Iwata also conceded that there's a lack of major Wii U titles in the opening months of 2013; during the video he argues that Nintendo understands the importance of strong first-party games early in a console's lifecycle. He's right – after the initial flush of 20 launch titles and the excitement of discovering asymmetrical multiplayer gaming, there has been a lull, and given the excitement building over Microsoft and Sony's activities this year, that might not be smart.However, with all the favourites on the way, together with one or two fresh additions and some enhanced services (such as the ability to access Miiverse on your smartphone, and some new community functionality in Wii Fit U), there's hope gamers will over look this somewhat barren spell. It would be nice, though, to see Nintendo putting its vast development talent to a few completely fresh projects. Of course, we need Super Mario, Mario Kart and the rest, but this is a time of generational change, a time to explore uncharted areas. Iwata must have the faith to allow his teams to introduce some innovative new strands.It is somewhat ironic that, while Zelda lovers are being kept waiting for a brand new adventure, it is Wind Waker that is being resurrected as a stop-gap. The GameCube struggled to maintain an audience against the might of PlayStation 2, which promised a new era of sleek, mature interactive entertainment via the likes of GTA III, Ico and Gran Turismo 4. Nintendo was left standing then – it can't afford to do that again.
A student and a church volunteer have been jailed for carrying out cyber attacks with the hacking group Anonymous, including one online assault that cost the payments giant PayPal at least £3.5m.Christopher Weatherhead, a Northampton University student, was sentenced to 18 months in prison on Thursday for his part in distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks on PayPal, Visa and Mastercard in December 2010.The 22-year-old, who used the online alias "Nerdo", was found guilty in December of playing a leading role in  several cyber attacks by Anonymous.Weatherhead was impassive as his punishment was delivered by the Southwark crown court judge, who was earlier warned that his "nerdiness" would make him a vulnerable target in prison.Judge Testar also sentenced Ashley Rhodes, 28, to seven months in prison for his part in the activities of the self-styled "hacktivist" group. Rhodes, a church volunteer from Camberwell, south London, sighed and leant his head on the back wall of the dock as his jail term was read out.A third man, Peter Gibson, 24, was given a suspended six-month prison sentence for his part in the Anonymous attacks. The sentencing of a fourth man, Jake Burchall, 18, was adjourned.The four men were each convicted of attacking anti-piracy and financial companies between August 2010 and January 2011. The assaults on Paypal, Visa and Mastercard were in retaliation for cutting ties with the whistleblowing website WikiLeaks following its release of secret US diplomatic cables.In his sentencing remarks, Testar said: "The defendants were actually rather arrogant. They thought they were far too clever to be caught and used various methods to try to cloak and preserve their anonymity. It seems to me that the police were a little bit more clever than the conspirators."Prosecuting, Joel Smith, said the four men were "not simply involved in the attacks, but played roles in maintaining the infrastructure used by other Anonymous members to coordinate attacks".Weatherhead was described during his trial as a high-ranking member of Anonymous who owned two servers, ran private chat rooms and acted as a press spokesman to the world's media, including the BBC and al-Jazeera. The court heard that Weatherhead enjoyed such seniority that he held an election of Anonymous members to decide who or what would be the hackers' next target.Rhodes, who used the online nickname "Nikonelite", was described as "the most hands-on" of the four men, and was the only one who had specialist DDoS software on his computer.The court heard that he joined in Anonymous attacks from his workplace, once complaining in a chatroom that his internet access had been blocked. His wife was "horrified" to discover his involvement in cyber attacks after he was arrested, according to the prosecutors.Testar said in sentencing: "The purpose of these conspirators was to cause the websites of organisations to crash and therefore take them temporarily out of service. The purpose was not commercial. It was activity by way of protest."He said the DDoS attacks were not particularly sophisticated, but added. "What was sophisticated was the lengths taken to protect the identities of those involved."• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook
Is there is a safe free download that will convert the Open University info I receive in RTF so that I can listen to it as I work outside? I have text to speech on my HP Pavilion laptop but (a) I am unable to slow it down enough for textbook type information as opposed to detective stories etc, and (b) it isn't practical to walk around behind a lawnmower carrying a laptop.Bill FarmanText-to-speech (TTS) is easy to do at a simple level, and Texas Instruments started making speech synthesis chips – as used in its Speak &amp; Spell toy – in the late 1970s. TTS then became common in computers during the next decade, starting with the Atari 1400XL home micro in 1983. (The Texas Instruments TI-99/4A did it before then, but only with its optional plug-in speech synthesiser module.)As you appreciate, TTS is also part of Microsoft Windows, where it is currently used by Narrator to provide screen-reading facilities for people with impaired vision. In Microsoft Office 2010 and 2013, Speak is built into Word, Outlook, PowerPoint, and OneNote. There are also lots of separate programs that either use Microsoft's SAPI (speech application programming interface) and Speech Platform software or bring their own TTS system.If you have Microsoft Office, try the open source Microsoft Word add-inSave as DAISY, which works with Word 2003, 2007 and 2010. This lets you select "Save as DAISY" from the Word menu and then "Full DAISY". This will save your RTF (Rich Text Format) or other document as an XML ebook and a synchronised MP3 audio file created using Microsoft's TTS software and the LAME encoding engine.DAISYis the world standard for digital talking books, the name being derived from Digital Accessible Information System. It was developed in Sweden in the early 1990s and adopted by America's National Library Service for the Blind and Physically Handicapped. It makes audio files much easier to navigate.There's a range of programs to handle DAISY files including DaisyWorm for the Apple iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch, and Go Read for Android.Otherwise, you can play back the MP3 file using any MP3 player.WordTalkis another plug-in for Microsoft Word, and it's available free from Call Scotland at the University of Edinburgh. It allows you to change the voice and the speed of the speech, and save it as a WAV or MP3 file. It works with versions of Microsoft Word from Word 97 to 2010 but you mustdownload the correct version.There are dozens of TTS programs for Windows, ranging in price from free to $100 or so, and some are listed in19 free text to speech tools for educatorsandThe best text to speech (TTS) software programs and online tools.I can't say which is best, butBalabolkais worth a try. It supports a wide range of sources including RTF, PDF and many ebook formats, and offers a wide range of outputs including WAV, MP3, MP4, Ogg and WMA. There are the usual sliders to change the speed and pitch (fast/slow buttons are too crude to be useful). It supports both SAPI4 and SAPI5, so it works with a wide range of voices, both free and commercial. Balabolka is free.Free alternatives includeSpesoft text to MP3 speaker, and Zabaware'sUltra Hal TTS Reader, which saves files in the WAV format.Some paid-for solutions offer more features and/or produce better results. There's a free trial version ofText Aloud 3– which can also integrate with Microsoft Word – so you could download that and see if it's worth $29.95 to you.There are also several websites where you can upload a file for processing and then download a converted version. I tried a few using Robert Frost's poem Fire and Ice, andSoundGeckoandYakitomeproduced the best results. (I usedAT&amp;T's Natural Voicesas a reference point (WAV).SoundGecko uses Windows Azure as its cloud platform so I thought I knew what to expect. However, it actually usesNeospeech– which I hadn't heard of before – and the results were surprisingly good. I found it much better thanNatural Reader. I even preferred it to Edinburgh'sCereProcwhich is famous for offering custom voices. (It did one for film critic Roger Ebert, and you can listen to its fakeBarack Obama.)SoundGecko has apps for leading mobiles – Apple, Android, Windows Phone – and can sync files to Dropbox, Google Drive and Microsoft SkyDrive. It's much simpler to create an MP3 from an RTF text file by using "Save as" from Word, but SoundGecko may appeal if you like the voicing and/or you're listening on a phone. The major catch would be if you needed any of the pro features, which cost $2.95 per month.One final suggestion: most modern e-readers have a text-to-speech feature, so you could upload your RTF files to an Amazon Kindle (but not thePaperwhite) to listen to your files.At the beginning, I said text-to-speech was "easy to do at a simple level". The problem is that it's very hard to do well. We have come a long way from flat robotic voices, but still don't have synthetic human voices that provide the right pronunciation, intonation and cadence over a wide range of topics. You just have to find the one you like best.Most Windows users manage with the standard voice supplied with the operating system. This was Microsoft Sam in Windows XP and Microsoft Anna in Vista and Windows 7. There are three new ones in Windows 8 – Microsoft Hazel (UK female), David (US male) and Zira (US female) – and they are significantly better, as illustrated in this shortYouTube video.In general, you need a big database and lots of processing power to get the very best results. This is why the TTS systems found in mobile phones are generally awful compared with PCs and Macs, whereas dedicated server-based systems such as Neospeech can produce even better results. It really depends on your taste, and how fussy you are. Our most famous TTS user, Professor Stephen Hawking, seems to manage just fine with his robotic voice.
With the new year in full swing, we thought it was time for the Guardian's Digital Development department to offer up a few predictions and thoughts on what might happen in technology over the rest of 2013. We've pulled together some observations, expectations and opinionated rants, giving you a flavour of what our team thinks the next twelve months could offer us. We put it together through a rapid-fire exchange internally. So without further ado, here's our thoughts for 2013.Wearable technology and other gadgetsWearable technology in action (photo byAaron Parecki)Several people mentionedGoogle Glass, the wondergadget of much speculation. QA Neal Madlani suggested that Glass, alongside other "wearable tech" items likePebble(a customisable watch), could be big for 2013, a prediction backed up by Head of QA James Murphy and developersAndrew Mason,Nicholas TollerveyandMichael Brunton-Spall. Michael added "While it's easy to pass off Google Glass as being merely a toy, I suspect that as we learn more about it, the developer interest in it is going to skyrocket". Client-side developer Patrick Hamann was less convinced, though, putting "wearable computing" on his list of things he felt 2013 "will not be" the year of (along withFirefox OSandUbuntu for phones).Other gadgets abound: developer Justin Pinner suggested flexible screens and 3D printing as tech to watch out for this year. QA Troy Harris agreed on the printers, speculating that their rise could cause "overseas toy manufacturing industries to crumble" (with "object anti-piracy" quickly following - and failing - to prevent this).DeveloperAndy Romepointed out the closing stages ofGalileo(European GPS), which should lead to more accurate geolocation, coinciding with the launch of "next-generation GPS satellites from the US". Andy also went on to talk about "indoor geolocation", leading to commerce-driven marketing: "where exactly can you pick up this product within 500 metres of your current position?".Patrick pointed to "NFC payments everywhere" (although Andy reminds us of the cynical "Not For Commerce" label ) and interactive developerRich Harristentatively suggested that "projectors in phones/tablets become slightly more mainstream". Nicholas also pointed to the wildly-successfulRaspberry Pias a possible hit for 2013, once "someone figures out and capitalises on a break-out mass appeal use" for them...Some of the team got a bit, er, creative, in their thoughts for the future. Scrum master Haran Rasalingam described his "hope for thought-controlled operation of the computer" usingexisting technology, adding that he was "fed up of typing" and unsatisfied with dodgy speech recognition software. Haran added, slightly alarmingly, that "a brain implant would be a great stocking filler...".The web: content and codeThe semantic web: some markup code showing built-in metadata (photo byStuart Chalmers)The potency of the web as a medium was a common theme, with Andrew excited about web-based gaming: "we have the APIs:Gamepad,mouse lock,fullscreen. And WebGL is ondesktop, mobileplus support coming to PS3 (4?)", and Nicholas agreeing that "new gaming devices (Valve...?)" could be on the way. DeveloperMax Harlowpredicted the onset of "more Snow Fall-like content", referring tothe New York Times' recent experimentinto interactive articles. Rich talked about the impending release ofLeapMotion, leading to "developers building naff demos, with people disappointed after the hype. Then we collectively start to discover what 3D gestural input is good for and it becomes a Thing that we all have to Know About".Education came up, with Andy suggesting "more schools will start adopting centralised tablet requirements for pupils", adding that his nine-year-old nephew is already experiencing this. Similarly, Andy goes on to suggest that more UK universities will offer online courses as Duke University is already doing withCoursera.Content itself was another strong theme, with developer Sebastien Cevey predicting "the rise in single-page webapps, particularly hybrids with theHistory APIand mixed client/server rendering for lighter page changes". Conversely, Patrick argued that "the decline of single-page webapps" would be a key theme of 2013, claiming that "client-side performance and responsive advertising" would be the big stars of the year, with Max adding that "someone will figure out how to do web advertising that doesn't suck". Product managerTom Grinstedagrees, predicting that "advertising money actually starts to follow users and we start to see genuinely significant ad-spend on mobile / cross-platform initiatives. This necessitates agencies starting to come to terms with modern technologies and move away from the single-size animated gif banner".Thesemantic webseems due for more mainstream adoption in 2013, if Max is correct: "Semantic web stuff quietly becomes more used, but nobody really notices", he claims, citingFacebook's recently-announced Graph Searchas a factor. Nicholas doesn't agree though, joking that it'll be "the 'next big thing' for the 12th year running". Seb also adds his support, citing "increasing use ofSchema.org" as a 2013 feature.The industry: companies, devices and specificationsThe responsive web: the Guardian's new mobile website as viewed on multiple devicesTechnology companies were debated: Apple vs Android came up, with Patrick predicting "the decline of iPhone's dominance" and Rich saying he thinks "Chromebookswill eat Windows 8's lunch". Michael claimed Apple will continue to dominate in high-end smartphones, but Android will take over the mid-to-low tier. He also anticipated the mythical "Facebook Phone", but similarly predicted it would be aimed at "entry-level, third world" markets, possibly being free as a device, or offering "free internet in exchange for being part of the Facebook network". Seb added that the growth of the Android tablet market could "eat into the e-reader market". Andy speculates that "either Android or iPhone will be hit by a virus", with product managerUlyssa MacMillanagreeing: "Running in the Backgroundwill be a box office smash, with a full range of physical and virtual merchandise (cuddly squeaky viruses? McAfee Nikes?). Angry Malware is next years' Angry Birds".Ulyssa also offered some clarity on the mobile web: "responsive digital products will become standard - brands that don't make the shift and maintain separate mobile websites will be considered behind the curve by the mainstream. And poked with a stick". Nicholas pointed to 4G, claiming it will "make mobile networks almost usable". James offered his thoughts on RIM, claiming "Blackberry will take one last roll of the dice with its new smartphones and will bounce back. I've test-driven a prototype device and it was surprisingly good considering the phones they've put out in the past".Michael ranted about privacy and cryptography: "Cryptography in the browser will continue to be a mess despite the W3C's best efforts. However, developers will use it, and we'll see pages that select fundamentally broken algorithms and initialisation vectors, or apply them in inappropriate ways.  This will leave people feeling secure, but we'll see attacks against it in the wild by the end of 2013 or earlier". Not content with this cynical doom-mongering, Michael goes on to say that "general consumers will protest about how concerned they are about privacy, but will continue to flock to privacy-violating companies and products without any concerns, nor join privacy initiatives like the EFF".  Nicholas terms this "the rediscovery of privacy", citingxkcd.Developer Ken Lim should, perhaps, be given the last word for our 2013 predictions. His reply, when asked about themes for 2013 in technology? It was just two words: "desktop Linux." Good luck, Ken!What do you think? Anything we've missed? Violently disagree? Let us know below.
Nokia has returned to profit, ending an 18-month spell during which it piled up losses of more than €4bn (£3.36bn), but scrapped its dividend for the first time in more than a century in order to conserve cash.The Finnish mobile phone maker reported an operating profit of €439m, compared with a loss of nearly €1bn a year ago, as consumer demand for its smartphones revived and the decision to slash its workforce by 20,000 helped to cut costs. The company has returned to growth, with net sales up 11% on the previous quarter to €8bn.In a sign that the Windows operating system used in Nokia's heavily marketed flagship Lumia handsets is beginning to gain traction, the key devices and services division also returned to profit.The number of smartphones sold rose to 6.6m over Christmas, up from 6.3m the quarter before, with 4.4m of the total coming from the Lumia range. Although Nokia sold 20m smartphones a year ago, the average selling price has rocketed by 33% to €186 as the quality of its handsets has improved.Chief executive Stephen Elop abandoned the company's in-house phone software, Symbian, in favour of Microsoft's Windows Phone in 2011, in order to produce devices capable of matching Apple and Samsung's best products.It was a move many considered risky, given Microsoft's negligible presence in mobiles and the massive popularity of Google's Android software, which Nokia could have opted to use."We are very encouraged that our team's execution against our business strategy has started to translate into financial results," said Elop. "We remain focused on moving through our transition, which includes continuing to improve our product competitiveness, accelerate the way we operate and manage our costs effectively."In order to conserve more cash, the 2012 dividend was cancelled – Nokia paid €0.2 per share for 2011. The company has paid a dividend since electronic records began in 1989, although a researcher in Finland claims shareholders have received a payout every year since 1971, when Nokia was in the paper mill business."The fourth quarter 2012 was the bottom line for Nokia," said Francisco Jeronimo at market research firm IDC. "Significant results need to be delivered this year starting right from the first quarter. From 2013 Nokia has only two options: either significantly grow sales or change its strategy, radically."Nokia's performance was boosted by its network equipment business, Nokia Siemens Networks, which after severe cost cutting and a boost in sales achieved its highest operating margin since its formation in 2007.The company reported a increase in net cash, which was up 22% on last quarter to €4.4bn. Nokia had burned through so much cash to fund its transition over the last 18 months that analysts had predicted it would deplete its reserves within two years without a return to form and a drop in headcount.
Andrew "Weev" Auernheimer is a hacktivist from the same internet community that has lionised Aaron Swartz as a free information hero. They are polar opposites: Swartz, who became a martyr to the cause after his suicide on January 11, was a highly-regarded, Ivy League-educated liberal from Illinois. Auernheimer is a self-confessed internet troll and a "mean-mouthed southern libertarian" from a trailer park in Arkansas.But before Swartz's death, the young men shared a similar plight: the threat of a long prison sentence under a system which lawyers, academics and other supporters believe leads to prosecution that are out of all proportion to the alleged cyber crimes.Neither Swartz, 26, nor Auernheimer, 27, hacked into any computer, yet were charged with offences aimed at hackers. Neither were motivated by profit, but by different brands of political activism.Yet they each faced multiple charges and prosecutions of such magnitude that they contributed to Swartz's death, according to his family. Auernheimer said he has shared the same "suffering and miseries" as Swartz after being "hounded by the FBI"."I've never broke into anyone's computer," Auernheimer told the Guardian. "We were accessing public resources. It's like they printed a book and I flipped open the pages and we criticised what they put in the book.""Like Aaron Swartz, I've no faith in the justice system," he added.His case is proof that while Swartz attracted worldwide attention, his prosecution was by no means unique. A number of internet activists, computer security experts and whistleblowers who have taken action online to highlight a flaw in the established order or as a form of political protest, have found themselves charged with multiple counts of cyber-crime, carrying draconian prison terms.Critics of the prosecutions say they are being bought by over-zealous prosecutors using outdated and flawed laws.Both men were being prosecuted under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, a statute written in the 1980s which has come under fire for being too broad. Last week, a congresswoman from Silicon Valleyproposed an amendmentcalled "Aaron's law" to try to stop such prosecutions.Auernheimer was convicted in November of conspiracy to access a protected computer without authorisation, as well as identity fraud.He faces 10 years in jailfor collecting 114,000 email addresses of iPad users stored by AT&amp;T, and passing some of this information to Gawker. The actual harvesting of the emails was carried out by a friend, Daniel Spitler.Auernheimer passed the information to Gawker to expose AT&amp;T's security flaws and embarrass them, he said."When you publish something, you don't have the right to whine and moan and cry: 'He's breaking and entering,'" said Auernheimer, who plans to appeal his conviction after his sentencing hearing on 25 February. "That's what AT&amp;T and the federal government are claiming. It's a dishonest and seditious claim."He said the idea that what he and Swartz did amounted to a felony was "ludicrous"."When the FBI came for Aaron, he lost everything. The difference between my case and Aaron's is: I'm a broke kid from a trailer park in Arkansas. I'm disaffected, poor and clever. If you put me in prison, at least my food will be paid for."Jay Liederman, an attorney who has represented a number of high-profile hackers, accused the government of employing the act to stifle dissent."It's as if with the explosion of hacktivists and activism, this is the government's new toy. It seems like they took a new look at the CFAA and realised they can chill this type of activism that they don't like," he said.Liederman has represented Commander X, a hacker who is on the run from the FBI for an attack on a website in Santa Cruz, California, and Raynaldo Rivera, a suspected hacker from LulzSec, accused of stealing information from Sony last year. He has described illegal hacker activities such as Distributed Denial of Service attacks (DDoS) as "digital sit-ins" or " the equivalent of occupying the Woolworth's lunch counter during the civil rights movement" and has called for the law to be changed.He sees a common thread running through prosecutions of activists for DDoS attacks and those of Swatrz, Auernheimer and Barrett Brown, a former affiliate of hacktivist collective Anonymous currently in prison facing charges under the CFAA, whose prosecution has also attracted criticism."They are very closely related," said Liederman. "It is one rich tapestry of prosecutorial overreach and government oppression."Brown faces 45 years in prison and $3m in fines for charges relating to a Christmas Day attack in 2011 against Stratfor, a US intelligence-gathering firm, in which Anonymous hackers stole 5.5m emails,some of which were later published on WikiLeaks.Brown was not involved in the hack, but allegedly facilitated it by posting a link in a chatroom, thereby providing others with credit card information and identities of thousands of individuals in the Stratfor database.He has also been chargedwith internet threats to FBI agents, relating to his Twitter and YouTube feed. All three were "popular, free-thinking information activists" facing "stunningly abusive" prosecutions, according to Liederman.Internet activist Aaron Swartz was found dead on January 11. Photograph: Zuma/Rex Features"With Swartz, with Weev with Barrett, there was no hacking, yet they are being prosecuted by statutes that were made for hackers."Each took a "contrarian notion" against established principles, he said."Aaron Swartz had the outrageous notion that information should be free, and that future generations should be allowed to enjoy and learn from academic articles. Weev had the outrageous notion that companies like AT&amp;T, because they are sloppy with your information, should be called out on it. Barrett had the outrageous notion that governments and those private security companies that act like the black hand of the government should be transparent and the public should have the right to know."These were virtues extolled by our forefathers in this country and all of a sudden they are lost to us."Gabriella Coleman, an anthropologist who spent three years living among hackers in San Francisco for her book, Coding Freedom: The Ethics and Aesthetics of Hacking, said that the US has historically been tougher on hackers than other countries."Hackers have been given stiff sentences in the US compared to most of Europe and Australia," she said, citing the case of Gary McKinnon, a British hacker the US sought to extradite. McKinnon faced US charges of causing thousands of dollars' worth of damage to military computers, which carried a prison sentence of up to 60 years if convicted.However, his extradition to the US was blocked in October on human rights grounds after reports showed he would have been a suicide risk. The case against him in the UKwas dropped in December.Asked whether the hardline prosecutions were a result of the CFAA itself or its interpretation by overzealous prosecutors, Coleman, who works at McGill University in Montreal, said: "It's a deadly mix. The way the CFAA is worded is extremely vague, and when you put that into a legal context, with the way hackers are dealt with in the US, it comes down hard. The two together becomes a problem."Jennifer Granick, an attorney and the director for civil liberties at the Center for Internet and Society at Stanford law school, writing after Swartz's death, said that ordinary prosecutorial tactics, such as the "horse-trading" that is plea-bargaining, become "extraordinary mistakes when the case is bogus or overcharged".In her blog,she identified many problemswith sentencing in computer crime cases, including the low burden of proof for loss calculations. She wrote that the CFAA should be amended and that prosecutors must be "extremely careful and measured when bringing these cases"."When so many thoughtful people, including former prosecutors, disagree with US attorney's conduct in these cases, we need to stop," she wrote.Auernheimer believes the CFAA should be "completely repealed". He said: "The CFAA is a broken law, but it is the seditious lies of prosecutors [that] were put out to make sure I didn't get a fair trial."He said what he did was a "a big deal to the Feds because I embarrassed rich people. What we are doing is magic they don't approve of, so burn the witches – kill them and throw them in prison."In a "statement of responsibility",published on Mondayin a response to a request from the government that he accept responsibility before sentencing, Auernheimer wrote: "Ivy-League educated and wealthy, Aaron dealt with his indictment so badly because he thought he was part of a special class of people that this didn't happen to. I am from a rundown shack in Arkansas. I spent many years thinking people from families like his got better treatment than me. Now I realize the truth: The beast is so monstrous it will devour us all. None will be spared."
It is the corporate version of a yard sale.THQ, the veteran publisher of games like Saints Row and Homefront, as well as a range of WWE wrestling titles, has been struggling with debt for many months. Now it has been forced to auction off its key franchises. The companyfiled for Chapter 11 bankruptcyin December and had hoped for a quick buy-out courtesy of the private equity firm, Clearlake Capital Group. However, investorsobjected to the deal, and a US courtfound in their favour, arguing that the company had not been aggressive enough in seeking other potential purchasers. The alternative: an auction, held on January 22, to sell off the publisher's studios and assets one by one. This was effectively to be the end of a company that has been in the games business for 20 years.And while the results of the auction are yet to be formally approved by the court, most of THQ's major brands are now effectively with new owners. Here's who got what:Relic Entertainment:the studio behind titles such as Company of Heroes and Warhammer 40k has been bought by Sega for $26.6m. It's a good fit for the publisher, bringing over the forthcoming real-time strategy sequel Company of Heroes 2 which slots in comfortably beside the Total War series.THQ Montreal:The studio had been working on two new properties: 1666 and Underdog. These have now gone to Ubisoft for $2.5m. Ironically, 1666 is the codename for a project directed by Assassin's Creed creator, Patrice Desilets, who left Ubisoft for THQ in 2010. In the wake of the move, Ubisoft attempted totake out an injunctionprohibiting THQ and Desilets from employing further staff from the Ubisoft Montreal studio. It's unclear yet, whether Desilets will return to the fold.Volition Studio, plus Metro and Saints Row series:The developer of the successful GTA-style gangster adventure series has been bought byKoch Mediafor $22.3m. The German media giant, which publishes titles like Dead Island, S.T.A.L.K.E.R and Risen, has also purchased the rights to the cult Metro series of shooters, though developer 4A Games is privately owned. The newcomers fit in with Koch's range of dark, mature titles – although it may have been interesting to see Volition work with second highest bidder, Ubisoft. Incidentally, it seems that Volition's Mars-based destruct-'em-up Red Faction isn't included in the sale.Evolve:This is the forthcoming shooter fromTurtle Rock Studios, which previously worked with Valve on Left 4 Dead and Counterstrike. Little is known about the project but that didn't stop Take Two from making a successful $11m bid on it.Apparently, the studio itself attempted to cobble together a bid for its own IP, but was out-muscled by the parent company of Rockstar and publisher of Bioshock and Borderlands.Homefront:the American invasion shooter has gone to Crytek (for just $544,218), which is already developing a sequel. The original title sold over 2m units despite mixed reviews – the brand is now in the hands of Crytek's Nottingham studio, which in a former life as Free Radical Design, created the Timesplitters FPS titles.South Park: The Stick of Truth:The keenly awaited role-playing game, based on the hit cartoon series, has been taken by Ubisoft thanks to a $3.26m bid. Created by respected RPG specialistObsidian Entertainmentand apparently still on track for a 2013 release, it features all the key characters heading out to save the town from evil crabpeople and underpants gnomes.Darksiders:Well... this is the bad news for fans of the critically acclaimed but not hugely successful action RPG series – there's no buyer as yet. However, Atsushi Inaba head of Bayonetta developer Platinum Games,has tweetedthat he'd be interested in purchasing the series if the price was right. Having the makers of Vanquish and Metal Gear Rising working on Darksiders 3 may well be considered a dream prospect by the game's community.WWE license:nothing is yet certain for the future of THQ's long-running wrestling simulation series, although IGN and others claim to haveheardthat Take Two has put in a winning bid. Surely EA, which grappled the UFC license from THQ last year, must also have been considering a bid.And that's it, game over. THQ has struggled for several years to develop a consistently successful portfolio, its major hits failing to make up for flops like the uDraw tablet. In a statement, the company's president Jason Rubin who only joined THQ last May, said:"I was brought in eight months ago to help turn this ship around, and while I'm disappointed that we could not effect a sale for the entire operating business, I am pleased that the new buyers will be providing jobs to many of our very talented personnel."Reportedly, a small administrative staff is being kept on to oversee the auction process, but there will be redundancies.
Startlingly, the last few years of writing about apps and mobile technology hasn't left me resembling a Men's Fitness cover model. Less washboard abs, more blogger's belly, alas.Yet a new app released by Dennis Publishing's male health mag aims to change that, although it's no digital replica.Men's Fitness Cover Model Body Planis a spin-off: a £1.49 paid app offering workout plans promising "you're just four weeks away from a physique worthy of the cover".While I mull the prospect of a "V-shaped torso" by Springtime, the app's release also made me think about the market for these kinds of spin-off apps for magazine publishers, as they slice and dice their archives of articles and photography in new ways for smartphones and tablets.Much of the focus on magazines and apps has been on the replica editions, whether offered through aggregators like Zinio, or as standalone apps in the app store newsstands of Apple and Google.Yet every major magazine publisher has also been experimenting with one-shots and spin-offs, looking for new revenue streams beyond pure subscriptions and advertising revenues for their digital editions.Supplements and one-shot issues aren't a new phenomenon, of course. In many cases, magazines are simply taking their physical strategies to digital formats in this regard.IPC has launched Uncut-branded apps aboutDavid Bowie,Bruce SpringsteenandThe Rolling Stones, for example, drawing on the archives of NME and Melody Maker as well as Uncut itself.Bauer Media did a similar thing back in 2011 with Empire magazine forSteven Spielberg, while Conde Nast tookGQ magazine's watches supplementto iOS in October 2012. IPC'sInStyle Best Beauty Buys 2012reflects this strategy too.The idea of sponsored supplements has also translated to the apps world, which may be a canny move given the popularity of free apps. Brand-based one-off apps from magazine publishers include Bauer'sThe A-Z of BMW in 2012andHonda: Reloadedand Conde Nast'sRevlon All Access.This all makes logical publishing sense: take a supplement or one-shot magazine that's already been designed for print, and turn it into a digital version for the app stores. It's a good way to test the app waters.What's arguably more interesting for publishers going forward, though, is working on new app-only products, even if they still draw on the archives of their print magazines. Finding new ways to turn those older articles into what feels like new content for an app.The new Men's Fitness app falls into that category, but you can also look at what Dennis Publishing did with the comparableWomen's Fitness Tone Up At Homeapp or itsViz Profanisaurus Das Krapitalapp.Bauer has launched a series of rough guide city apps under FHM's brand, IPC hasGolf Monthly Short Game TipsandWallpaper Case Studies, while Conde Nast hasGoings On: The New Yorker,The Details FinderandBrides Wedding Genius.These are early days, and publishers don't tend to talk about the revenues they make from these kinds of spin-off apps – they're very much experimental rather than big money-spinners as things stand.They do, however, show that when you think about magazines as brands with years of articles and expertise on their chosen focus, rather than merely as print entities that need to be replicated for smart devices, there's a lot more that can be done.Magazine publishers have the potential – and that's an important word, because it's their challenge to make the most of that potential – to become incubators for some really interesting content-led apps in the coming months and years, especially if they can find the right blend between their own content and that contributed by readers/users.
Sony Computer Entertainment has been fined a record £250,000 by the data protection watchdog after the personal details of millions of gamers – including passwords and credit card numbers – were leaked online.The privacy blunder happened in April 2011, when computer hackers targeted the Sony PlayStation Network.The Information Commissioner's Office on Thursday said the security breach was "one of the most serious" it has handled under the Data Protection Act. The £250,000 fine is the maximum penalty awarded by the ICO against a private company."There's no disguising that this is a business that should have known better. It is a company that trades on its technical expertise, and there's no doubt in my mind that they had access to both the technical knowledge and the resources to keep this information safe," said David Smith, the ICO's deputy commissioner and director of data protection.The watchdog said millions of customers were exposed to the risk of identity theft after their names, addresses, email addresses, dates of birth and account passwords were leaked online.The ICO launched an investigation into the leak immediately after the hack in April 2011. It concluded on Thursday that the attack could have been prevented if Sony's software had been up to date, and separately found that passwords were not handled securely by the games giant.The security breach was a huge blow for Sony, forcing its then chief executive,Sir Howard Stringer, into a humble apologyand causing its share price to tumble as investors worried about the ultimate cost of the hack.The £250,000 fine is the third largest penalty ever imposed by the ICO, with only two local authorities fined more than Sony.Smith said: "If you are responsible for so many payment card details and log-in details then keeping that personal data secure has to be your priority. In this case that just didn't happen, and when the database was targeted – albeit in a determined criminal attack – the security measures in place were simply not good enough."The penalty we've issued today is clearly substantial, but we make no apologies for that. The case is one of the most serious ever reported to us. It directly affected a huge number of consumers, and at the very least put them at risk of identity theft."The ICO did not reveal how many gamers it believes were affected by the security breach. At the time, it was estimated thatas many as 100 million usersmay have been impacted.It is not known who was responsible for the hack, described by the ICO as a "focused and determined criminal attack" on Sony's network. The hacking group Anonymous denied that it was involved back in May 2011, afterreports quoted some members as admitting responsibility.The data protection body said the attackers exploited a "vulnerability" in Sony's network following several distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks, which overwhelmed Sony's network by flooding it with requests to load information.The Japanese electronics giant failed to address the vulnerability even after it had spotted the unauthorised access on 19 April 2011, according to the ICO. It said that the Sony network had now been completely rebuilt.Sony responded robustly to the fine, saying it "strongly disagreed" with the ruling and planned to appeal.It added in a statement: "Criminal attacks on electronic networks are a real and growing aspect of 21st century life and Sony continually works to strengthen our systems, building in multiple layers of defence and working to make our networks safe, secure and resilient."The reliability of our network services and the security of our consumers' information are of the utmost importance to us, and we are appreciative that our network services are used by even more people around the world today than at the time of the criminal attack."The company pointed out that the ICO found in its investigation that the "personal data is unlikely to have been used for fraudulent purposes" and that there was no evidence that encrypted payment card details were accessed.
Apologies for the late running of chatterbox this morning. Taking my sons to school involved abandoning the car about half a mile away and trudging in over the fields. That made me a bit late.
 < p > A   q u i c k   b u r s t   o f   9   l i n k s   f o r   y o u   t o   c h e w   o v e r ,   a s   p i c k e d   b y   t h e   T e c h n o l o g y   t e a m < / p > < h 2 > < a   h r e f = " h t t p : / / o n l i n e . w s j . c o m / a r t i c l e / S B 1 0 0 0 1 4 2 4 1 2 7 8 8 7 3 2 3 4 8 5 7 0 4 5 7 8 2 5 7 8 5 3 6 6 2 7 0 3 9 6 8 . h t m l " > T h e   C o n v e r t i b l e   P C s   & g t ; & g t ;   W S J . c o m < / a > < / h 2 > < p > W a l t   M o s s b e r g   t r i e s   o u t   t h e   H P   E n v y   x 2 ,   A s u s   T a i c h i   2 1   a n d   T o s h i b a   S a t e l l i t e   U 9 2 5 t .   T h e y ' r e   a l l   s o r t   o f   t a b l e t - y   l a p t o p s .   N o n e   q u i t e   s u g g e s t s   t h a t   a n y o n e   h a s   f i g u r e d   o u t   h o w   t o   m a k e   t h e   h y b r i d   w o r k .   ( M a y   r e q u i r e   s u b s c r i p t i o n . ) < / p > < h 2 > < a   h r e f = " h t t p : / / b l o g . e v e r n o t e . c o m / b l o g / 2 0 1 3 / 0 1 / 2 3 / b e y o n d - t h e - e v e r n o t e - f r i d g e / " > B e y o n d   t h e   " E v e r n o t e   F r i d g e "   & g t ; & g t ;   E v e r n o t e   B l o g < / a > < / h 2 > < p > O n   t h a t   S a m s u n g   f r i d g e   w i t h   t h e   s h a r e d   s e r v i c e   E v e r n o t e :   < / p > < b l o c k q u o t e > < p > A n d   i f   y o u   s e e   t h a t   y o u ' r e   o u t   o f   e g g s ,   w h y   n o t   p u t   a   r e m i n d e r   i n t o   t h e   E v e r n o t e   s c r e e n   s i t t i n g   o n   t h e   d o o r   y o u ' r e   h o l d i n g   o p e n ?   O r ,   i f   y o u ' r e   f o l l o w i n g   a   r e c i p e   y o u ' v e   s a v e d   i n   E v e r n o t e ,   w o u l d n ' t   i t   b e   n i c e   t o   s e e   i t   o n   a   s c r e e n   t h a t ' s   d e s i g n e d   t o   s u r v i v e   i n   t h e   k i t c h e n ,   i n s t e a d   o f   u s i n g   a   t a b l e t   w h i l e   t r y i n g   t o   k e e p   y o u r   i n g r e d i e n t s   o f f   o f   i t ? < / p > < p >   W e   b e l i e v e   t h a t   m a n y   t y p e s   o f   d e v i c e s   c a n   b e   m a d e   m o r e   u s e f u l   w h e n   g i v e n   a c c e s s   t o   r e l e v a n t   p e r s o n a l   d a t a   a n d   m e m o r i e s .   I n f o r m a t i o n   i s   c o n t e x t u a l .   B e y o n d   t h a t ,   t h e   r e f r i g e r a t o r   i s   a   s p e c i a l   d e v i c e .   I t ' s   a   s o u r c e   o f   n o u r i s h m e n t   a n d   a   h u b   f o r   m e m o r i e s   ( a t   l e a s t   o n   r e f r i g e r a t o r s   w i t h   t r a d i t i o n a l ,   m a g n e t i c   f r o n t s ) .   I t ' s   e m o t i o n a l . < / p > < / b l o c k q u o t e > < h 2 > < a   h r e f = " h t t p : / / w w w . d i g i t i m e s . c o m / n e w s / a 2 0 1 3 0 1 2 2 V L 2 0 2 . h t m l " > T a i w a n   4 Q 1 2   d i g i t a l   c a m e r a   s h i p m e n t s   h i t   1 5 - q u a r t e r   l o w   & g t ; & g t ;   D i g i t i m e s   R e s e a r c h < / a > < / h 2 > < b l o c k q u o t e > < p > T a i w a n - b a s e d   A b i l i t y   E n t e r p r i s e ,   A l t e k ,   F o x c o n n   E l e c t r o n i c s   a n d   A s i a   O p t i c a l   s h i p p e d   7 . 5 8 8 m   d i g i t a l   c a m e r a s   i n   t o t a l   d u r i n g   t h e   f o u r t h   q u a r t e r   o f   2 0 1 2 ,   h i t t i n g   t h e   l o w e s t   q u a r t e r l y   l e v e l   s i n c e   t h e   s e c o n d   q u a r t e r   o f   2 0 0 9 ,   a c c o r d i n g   t o   D i g i t i m e s   R e s e a r c h . < / p > < p >   O f   t h e   s h i p m e n t s ,   5 7 . 6 %   w e r e   1 6 - m e g a p i x e l   C C D   m o d e l s ,   1 8 . 1 %   1 6 - m e g a p i x e l   C M O S   m o d e l s   a n d   1 7 . 8 %   1 4 - m e g a p i x e l   C C D   m o d e l s ,   D i g i t i m e s   R e s e a r c h   s a i d . < / p > < / b l o c k q u o t e > < p >   S i g n   o ' t h e   t i m e s . < / p > < h 2 > < a   h r e f = " h t t p : / / i n v e n t o r - l a b s . c o m / b l o g / 2 0 1 1 / 1 0 / 1 2 / w h a t - i t s - r e a l l y - l i k e - w o r k i n g - w i t h - s t e v e - j o b s . h t m l " > W h a t   i t   w a s   r e a l l y   l i k e   w o r k i n g   w i t h   S t e v e   J o b s   & g t ; & g t ;   I n v e n t o r   L a b s   B l o g < / a > < / h 2 > < p > G l e n n   R e i d :   < / p > < b l o c k q u o t e > < p > I   w a s   r e c r u i t e d   b y   S t e v e ' s   r i g h t   h a n d   m a n   t o   c o m e   i n   t o   b u i l d   i M o v i e   1 . 0 ,   i n   l a r g e   p a r t   b e c a u s e   I   k n e w   a   l o t   a b o u t   N e X T S T E P ,   t h e   t e c h n o l o g y   w h i c h   w a s   t o   b e c o m e   M a c O S   X ,   a n d   b e c a u s e   I   t h i n k   S t e v e   l i k e d   P a s t e U p   a n d   l i k e d   m e   a n d   t h o u g h t   I   c o u l d   g e t   i t   d o n e   ( w e   w e r e   d o n e   a h e a d   o f   s c h e d u l e ,   a s   i t   t u r n e d   o u t ) . < / p > < p >   I   c a n   s t i l l   r e m e m b e r   s o m e   o f   t h o s e   e a r l y   m e e t i n g s ,   w i t h   3   o r   4   o f   u s   i n   a   l o c k e d   r o o m   s o m e w h e r e   o n   A p p l e   c a m p u s ,   w i t h   a   l o t   o f   w h i t e b o a r d s ,   t a l k i n g   a b o u t   w h a t   i M o v i e   s h o u l d   b e   ( a n d   s h o u l d   n o t   b e ) .   I t   w a s   a s   p u r e   a s   p u r e   g e t s ,   i n   t e r m s   o f   b u i l d i n g   s o f t w a r e .   S t e v e   w o u l d   d r a w   a   q u i c k   v i s i o n   o n   t h e   w h i t e b o a r d ,   w e ' d   g o   w o r k   o n   i t   f o r   a   w h i l e ,   b r i n g   i t   b a c k ,   f i n d   o u t   t h e   w a y s   i n   w h i c h   i t   s u c k e d ,   a n d   w e ' d   i t e r a t e ,   a g a i n   a n d   a g a i n   a n d   a g a i n .   T h a t ' s   h o w   i t   a l w a y s   w e n t .   I t e r a t i o n .   I t ' s   t h e   k e y   t o   d e s i g n ,   r e a l l y .   J u s t   k e e p   i m p r o v i n g   i t   u n t i l   y o u   h a v e   t o   s h i p   i t . < / p > < p >   T h e r e   w e r e   o n l y   3   o f   u s   o n   t h e   t e a m ,   g r o w i n g   t o   4   w i t h i n   t h e   y e a r ,   w i t h   n o   m a r k e t i n g   a n d   v e r y   l i t t l e   i n f r a s t r u c t u r e   a r o u n d   u s .   T h e r e   w a s   p a p e r   o v e r   t h e   i n t e r n a l   w i n d o w s   t o   k e e p   o t h e r   A p p l e   e m p l o y e e s   f r o m   k n o w i n g   w h a t   w e   w e r e   d o i n g . < / p > < / b l o c k q u o t e > < p >   i M o v i e   1 . 0   r e a l l y   w a s   a n   a m a z i n g   p r o d u c t .   H o w   m a n y   p e o p l e   d o e s   t h e   a v e r a g e   s t a r t u p   n o w   h a v e   c o d i n g   p r o d u c t s   t h a t   a r e   f a r   l e s s   i n n o v a t i v e ? < / p > < h 2 > < a   h r e f = " h t t p : / / w w w . a n d r o i d g u y s . c o m / 2 0 1 0 / 0 6 / 0 4 / a n d r o i d - 2 1 - p o w e r e d - h u a w e i - s 7 - t a b l e t - w o r k s - 7 i n c h - p h o n e / " > J u n e   2 0 1 0 :   A n d r o i d   2 . 1   p o w e r e d   H u a w e i   S 7   t a b l e t   w o r k s   a s   7 - I n c h   p h o n e   & g t ; & g t ;   A n d r o i d   G u y s < / a > < / h 2 > < p > S c o t t   W e b s t e r   i n   J u n e   2 0 1 0 :   < / p > < b l o c k q u o t e > < p > I f   t h e r e   i s   o n e   t h i n g   A n d r o i d   h a s   c e r t a i n l y   b e c o m e   v e r y   g o o d   a t ,   i t ' s   b l u r r i n g   t h e   l i n e   b e t w e e n   t a b l e t   a n d   s m a r t   p h o n e .     W h e r e   e x a c t l y   d o e s   o n e   d e c i d e   t o   s t o p   c a l l i n g   s o m e t h i n g   a   p h o n e ?     I s   i t   f i v e   i n c h e s ?     H o w   a b o u t   5 . 5 - i n c h e s ?   W h a t   i f   t h e   d e v i c e   w a s 
Apple has jolted investors with lower than expected iPhone sales, underlining fears that the product which helped create the world's most valuable company may be losing its allure.In one of its most eagerly anticipated earnings updates of recent years, Apple reported no rise in profits and slightly missed revenue estimates, suggesting its period of hyper-growth is coming to an end. The news wiped $50bn from Apple's market value, as shares collapsed 10% in after-hours trading.Apple sold 47.8m iPhones over the Christmas quarter, missing a forecast average of around 50m. Unusually for a company that has regularly outperformed analyst expectations, revenue growth of 18% year on year to $54.5bn was below the $54.9bn forecast, and profits were flat on the previous year at $13.1bn.While momentum remained strong in the Americas with revenues up 15% to $20bn, there are signs that rival manufacturers such as Samsung may be gaining ground on Apple in recession-hit Europe with lower-priced handsets. Growth in Europe slowed from 55% last year to 11% in December.Apple's stock has crashed by 30% since reaching its all-time peak of $705.07 in September, and last week fell below $500 for the first time in 11 months after reports that production of liquid crystal displays for its screens had been slashed for the beginning of this year after lower than expected demand."It's not going to be enough to turn the stock around," said Capital Advisors chief executive Keith Goddard."If Apple can convince investors it can maintain margins while moving downmarket, the stock is doing to great in 2013. If not, you'll have to be patient and wait for the investor base to turn over as growth investors move out of the stock, and long-term value investors move in."In a sign that even Apple is not immune to the fall in demand for personal computers, the company sold 4m Macs, 18% fewer than last Christmas. The company blamed the arrival late in the quarter of its new line-up, and said once its latest high-resolution screen Macs were on sale, demand outstripped supply.The iPad performed as expected, with sales of nearly 23m, up on 15.4m, while supplies of the recently launched iPad mini fell short of demand during every week it was on sale. The quarter ended on 29&nbsp;December with a significant backlog of orders."We aren't interested in revenue for revenue's sake," said Cook as he presented the results. "We could put the Apple brand on a lot of things and sell a lot more stuff. The most important thing to us is that our customers love our products, not just buy them but love them."Recalling the launch of the first Macintosh computer by Steve Jobs 29 years ago, Cook claimed the company still had "the same spirit and drive" that brought the Mac and other revolutionary products to market.Sales in the booming Chinese market increased 67% to $6.8bn and were up by a quarter in Japan despite the country's economic woes.Cook countered reports that Apple is scaling back production of the iPhone 5, saying "it's good to question the accuracy of any kind of rumour about build plans" and no single report could give a complete picture.Japan's Nikkei business newspaper reported Apple had halved orders for the first three months of 2013 for screens from suppliers such as Japan Display, Sharp and LG Display. In response, Wall Street analysts pared back their estimates for full year revenues and profits.The company indicated on Wednesday that revenues for the first three months of this year would be between $41bn and $43bn, and declared a dividend of $2.65 per share.While smartphone sales are booming for all major players, the Android operating system created by Google and used by Samsung and HTC is growing much faster than Apple's iOS.Android is estimated to have taken 69% of the smartphone market in the last three months of 2012, up from 53% a year before, according to research firm IDC.Apple is still the only other software maker of any size in the smartphone business, but its share is believed to have dipped from 23% to 21%. Demand has been high for the Apple's earlier smartphone models, which are cheaper. on sale at lower prices. "It's notable that so many consumers are opting for older models rather than the iPhone 5," said Sarah Rotman Epps at research firm Forrester. "It means there's demand for cheaper Apple products, and Apple may have saturated the high end of the market."The iPhone generates a hefty 55% profit margin for Apple, and its popularity has been the engine behind the technology giant's transformation into the world's most valuable listed company. Apple's market capitalisation overtook oil group Exxon Mobil's in 2011."It will no longer be the hyper-growth company of the last five years, but rather a premium, branded consumer company, along the lines of Nike, Louis Vuitton and Saks," predicted Toni Sacconaghi at broker Sanford C Bernstein in a note published ahead of Apple's results.
Steve Jobs threatened to sue the rival smartphone maker Palm over poaching of Apple staff, in a bid to enforce a clandestine pact between tech companies in Silicon Valley, new documents reveal.The late Apple co-founder menaced Palm with a patent lawsuit to try to compel adherence to a possibly illegal agreement between rival firms to not recruit each other's employees.The email from Jobs, along with otherdocuments tech industry chiefs tried to keep secret, surfaced on Tuesday in a civil lawsuit brought by five tech workers against Apple and other companies including Google, Intel, Adobe, Walt Disney's Pixar animation unit, Intuit and Lucasfilm Ltd.The suit claims there was an illegal conspiracy to eliminate competition for each other's employees and to reduce wages, an alleged dark side to Silicon Valley's freewheeling, sunny public image.Judge Lucy Koh, of the US district court in San Jose, is considering a plaintiffs' request to turn the civil lawsuit into a class action, increasing their chances of winning damages which could run into hundreds of millions of dollars.The August 2007 exchanges between Jobs and then-Palm chief executive Edward Colligan were the latest embarrassing revelations to enter the public record because of the case.In a sworn statement Colligan said Jobs called him to complain that several Apple employees had moved to Palm and to propose an "arrangement" whereby neither would hire the other's employees. Jobs threatened a patent lawsuit to encourage compliance, said Colligan.At the time Palm, which has since been bought by Hewlett-Packard Co, was developing its Palm Pre to compete with Apple's iPhone. Jobs was especially concerned that senior staff such as Jon Rubinstein, senior vice president of hardware development, had moved to the rival company.Colligan rebuffed Jobs in an 24 August 2007 email: "Your proposal that we agree that neither company will hire the other's employees, regardless of the individual's desires, is not only wrong, it is likely illegal." He said the lawsuit threat was "just out of line", would not intimidate him and would serve only to enrich lawyers.Jobs replied two days later, a Sunday, curtly noting "this is not satisfactory to Apple" and reminding his rival of the "asymmetry" in their financial resources should the lawsuit proceed.Last weekJudge Koh ordered Apple's chief executive officer, Tim Cook, to give a deposition, saying it was "hard to believe" he was not consulted about no-poaching agreements which may have violated antitrust laws.Apple did not immediately reply to a request for comment on Wednesday.Court filings on Tuesday revealed that such pacts were common in Silicon Valley.In February 2006 , a year before his clash with Palm, Jobs emailed the then Google CEO Eric Schmidt: "Eric, I am told that Google's new cell phone software group is relentlessly recruiting in our iPod group. If this is indeed the truth, can you put a stop to it? Thanks, Steve."Schmidt proved receptive: "I'm sorry to hear this; we have a policy of no recruiting of Apple employees. I will investigate immediately! Eric."In a separate exchange the Google chief urged his human resources director to be discreet when seeking such agreements with rivals. "Schmidt responded that he preferred it be shared 'verbally, since I don't want to create a paper trail over which we can be sued later'." Schmidt was briefed that a recruiter who tried to poach an Apple employee "will be terminated within the hour".The plaintiff's lawyers are due to question Schmidt next month. Google declined an interview request on Wednesday but in a statement said it has "always actively and aggressively recruited top talent".Rumours of a no-poaching agreements between top tech companies prompted a US justice department probe in 2010, leading to a promise by Google, Apple, Adobe and others to refrain from such pacts.Authorities believe the practice continues in parts of the industry. The justice department and antitrust regulators sued eBay last year over an alleged no-poaching deal with the software firm Intuit.
Privacy concerns are mounting around Facebook's recently announcedsearch tool, after it was used to unearth lists of people related to supporters of the outlawed Chinese group Falun Gong and companies apparently employing self-declared racists.Graph Search, Facebook's answer to Google's search engine, was launched last week by founder Mark Zuckerberg, who promised it would help people find friends who share their interests. Critics argued it could be also be used to unearth compromising information on Facebook's 1 billion members.In abloglaunched on Wednesday, a series of controversial search results have been made public, showing the extent to which those who share photos, personal information and "likes" on Facebook could have their privacy invaded.Graph Search has served up lists of family members of people who live in China and like Falun Gong, people who like the extreme rightwing group English Defence League but also enjoy a curry, and Islamic men who are interested in other men and live in Tehran, where homosexuality is persecuted.Other lists included Tesco employees who like horses, a reference to the discovery of horse DNA in burgers sold by the supermarket chain, and spouses of people who like Ashley Madison, a dating site for people already in relationships.The searches were made and posted by technology commentator Tom Scott, who is among those invited to test Graph Search before it becomes available to the general public.Scott urged Facebook's users to check their privacy settings. "If it'd be awkward if it was put on a screen in Times Square, don't put it on Facebook," he said.The blogposts have been censored in order to protect those named in the searches, but anyone using the tool directly would have access to a range of information such as full names, place of residence, employers, photographs and lists of friends and family.Scott also warned that the results could be unreliable. Many members use the  "like" button ironically, and younger users often list friends under the family category."There are a lot of people who post genuinely private, compromising information. It's easy for people in the tech-savvy media bubble that all of us are in to forget that," Scott said. "As has happened so many times with Facebook, this data was always available – but it wasn't this easy to find."When asked for comment, Facebook said that Graph Search does not change members' existing privacy settings, and only shows what can be seen elsewhere on the site according to what people have chosen to share.
Google has revealed the full scale of the US government's use of controversial legislation that bypasses judicial approval to access the online information of private citizens.According to its latest transparency report, the number of requests for private data Google received from US officials had increased by 136% by the end of 2012 from the second half of 2009, when the search firm first started collecting data.In the US, 68% of requests were made under Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA) subpoenas, which, unlike wiretaps or physical search warrants, typically circumvent the need for officials to make their case to a judge. Google said it complies to some degree with 90% of those requests.This is the first time Google has disclosed the legal processes used by US officials to gather electronic information.The ECPA has been widely criticised by privacy advocates, and was passed in 1986, long before electronic communication became so common. Under the act, email stored on a third party's server for more than 180 days is considered abandoned. To access that information, officials need only a written statement certifying that the information is relevant to an investigation.But Holmes Wilson, co-founder of online advocacy group Fight For the Future, said the Justice Department had argued that emails are "abandoned" once they are opened. "Ironically, the emails that now have the most protection are the spam that you never open," he said. "ECPA is under dire need of reform. Right now the government can access almost anything that you have online without a warrant and at anytime. Electronic communication should be afforded the same protection as your physical mail or files stores in a cabinet," he said.Of the other requests, Google said 22% were through ECPA search warrants, which are, generally speaking, orders issued by judges, and the remaining 10% were mostly court orders issued under ECPA by judges.Governments around the world continue to dramatically increase the number of requests they make for private users' data, according to Google's latest report, which covers the last six months of 2012. "User data requests of all kinds have increased by more than 70% since 2009," Richard Salgado, legal director at Google said in a blogpost.From July to December the US topped the poll with 8,438 requests, 136% higher than the same period in 2009 and up another 6% from the first half of 2009. Google provided the authorities with some data in 90% of cases.India was the country that made the second most requests for information, 2,431 up from 2,319 in the first half of 2012. France, Germany and the United Kingdom complete the top five.Google's bi-annual report usually contains a separate section on government requests for content to be removed from search results. This has now been split out and will be presented in another report.The search firm did not give more detail on the legal processes used by governments other than the US when they make requests for information.
Facebook has admitted that there is almost nothing it can do to stop young users setting up profiles, with academic research suggesting that more than a third of UK 9-12 year olds now have their own page on the social network.The world's biggest social network, with more than 1 billlion registered global users, has a rule that under-13s are not allowed to have profiles and also has strict rules for policing explicit content and preventing bullying and grooming.However, there is no stringent verification system to prove the age of Facebook users and some research estimates just over a third – 34% – of 9 to 12-year-olds in the UK have a profile on the social network. The estimate for this demographic globally is that a quarter have Facebook profiles.Simon Milner, the director of policy for Facebook UK and Ireland, admitted that it was a "tricky" topic for the company. "We haven't got a mechanism for eradicating the problem [of underage users]," Milner said."Facebook does have a rule that users have to be over 13, as does YouTube, which not a lot of people know," he added, speaking at theOxford Media Conventionon Wednesday. "It is not because we think that Facebook is unsafe but because of a US law about children's online privacy. So we have it as a global rule."Sonia Livingstone, professor of social psychology at the London School of Economics, told the Oxford event that her research has shown that 34% of UK 9 to 12-year-olds have a Facebook profile."I would assume that [figure] is going up and would assume younger children are also having profiles," she said. "If parents would only say to young children, 'don't go on Facebook', we have found that they listen. Teenagers don't, but younger children do."Milner responded: "I am very well aware of the research that a lot of 11 and 12-year-olds and younger have Facebook accounts and lie about their age [during the online signup process] … and that in some cases parents actively help."In that environment it is increasingly difficult to know what to do. You can't make everyone prove their age … that would get privacy advocates up in arms."Milner, who pointed out he was a parent and did not let his young children use Facebook, said he does not "condemn" parents for helping kids use the networking site."We don't condone it, don't support it and don't condemn it either," he said, pointing out that it is similar to parents making a decision to take children to films such as the Harry Potter series that they may not strictly be allowed to attend under movie age classification rules.He also said that Facebook monitors its own site with strict rules on content such as nudity and pornography and that the company would never allow an outside firm to take on the role of policing it."We apply standards and the idea of having someone outside make those decisions is anathema to us," he added. "The focus is very much on harm [to users], not offence. We do leave a lot of offensive speech up there, that is true also of a lot of similar platforms."He added that Facebook has tough policies on eliminating bullying and attempted grooming on the social network.Milner said that a particular concern is when young children decide to state their age as over 18 on Facebook. Users under this age do not appear in the Facebook profile search function and strangers cannot see their connections with friends.He added that parents are most worried about bullying, grooming, self-harm and suicide-related content, followed by explicit content such as pornography.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook
Facebook has apologised after it blocked the operator of one of America's leading same-sex marriage campaigns from accessing the service when he posted a photograph of a mixed-race gay couple online.Murray Lipp, the founder of theGay Marriage USA Facebookpage, which has 300,000 fans, received a notification that the photograph of a gay couple was "offensive". The photograph of the marriage of a bishop at a relatively small Pentecostal church movement with his husband resulted in a number of complaints.In a message sent to Lipp by the Facebook administrators, he was told that he would be prohibited from posting content on to the Gay Marriage USA Facebook page for a week for breaking Facebook's "policies and community standards".Prior to the image being removed by Facebook, it had garnered a significant number of homophobic comments including: "I am just in disgust with their lifestyle. It's disgusting and completely vile."Another said: "Someone please explain to me how it is acceptable when man and man/woman or woman cannot conceive children? It is our purpose in life to conceive children."Others quoted passages from the bible that prohibit gay sex and threatened to get the Gay Marriage USA Facebook page shut down.Lipp claimed that he has been reprimanded by Facebook numerous times over the past year following complaints that he perceived to have originated from homophobic subscribers to his page. He told the Guardian: "Not once has Facebook ever contacted me to give me an opportunity to respond – it simply blocks me each time and each time the block is for a longer period of time. It's totally unjust that I should be punished for someone else's homophobia."After being notified of the situation by the Guardian, Facebook relented and reinstated the Gay Marriage USA page.A spokesman for Facebook said: "The content of the photograph in question did not violate our terms, however it was removed in error."He explained that the correct action would have been to remove the homophobic comments, adding: "Normally these comments are reviewed separately and removed where appropriate. In this instance the photograph itself was mistakenly taken down, despite there being nothing in the picture that breaks our rules. We apologise for the error."A source at Facebook explained that the company receives thousands of complaints about content every day and that occasionally mistakes are made but that a longer term review is underway of the way that the social network deals with accusations of offence.Earlier this month, Facebook apologised for the deletion of content posted by PinkNews that used the word "faggot" while reporting on a homophobic outburst made by the singer Azealia Banks. Following the post, several PinkNews staff found themselves temporarily blocked from the social network.• Benjamin Cohen is the founding publisher ofPinkNews.co.uk
Freemium games are hugely lucrative on iOS and Android: 17 of the 20 top-grossing iPhone and iPad games in the UK at the time of writing are free-to-play.Some have taken this as a sign thatpaid apps are history, but British developerFireproof Studioswould disagree. The company tells The Guardian that it has sold more than 1m copies of its iPad physical-puzzlerThe Roomsince its release in September 2012.The game launched for £2.99 on iPad, before shifting to £1.49 in late October and remaining at that price ever since. Even at the lower price, the 1m sales would mean just under £1.5m of gross revenues, and £1m after Apple's 30% cut."The game cost us £60k to make," says the Guildford-based developer's commercial director Barry Meade. "We were happy if we made our money back, but we did that within a week. Our next target was to pay for the development of the next one, and after that it's all gravy."The separateThe Room Pocketversion for iPhone, which is a free download with one playable level and the rest unlocked with a £1.49 in-app purchase, is not included in the 1m sales figure. That app has been downloaded more than 2m times though.Fireproof's six co-founders met while working at British console  software firm Criterion Software on its Burnout franchise, and quit in 2008 to launch their own studio outsourcing artwork – environments, assets and characters – for other developers.They worked on both LittleBigPlanet games as well as titles including DJ Hero, Split Second and Blur. "The real goal was always to make our own video-games though," says Meade."When iOS happened, that made it possible for someone with our means to make something small and just get it out there. We saved up our money for three years, used it to hire a coder in January last year, and by February we were making The Room."The game itself is excellent. Released initially on iPad with the separate iPhone version The Room Pocket following in December, it sees you completing puzzles to unlock a safe, blending impressive graphics with intuitive touchscreen controls.Developed by a team of two people while the rest of Fireproof cracked on with their outsourcing jobs, The Room was a labour of love – but also an attempt to get a minimum viable product onto the App Store to see how it did."We wanted to make the best iOS game we could, not just try to make a big console game for iOS," says Meade. "A real games-maker will design their game around the resources they have and the platform they're going on. It's quite a practical equation."Hence the emphasis on gestural controls as you push, pull and twist objects to solve puzzles, while zooming in and out on objects in the virtual room.Meade has strong views on the importance of designing for the touchscreen rather than harking back to controllers on other platforms. "It's the height of laziness to make a game that involves a d-pad for the iPad," he says."No matter how good your production values are, it shows a lack of respect for the platform. All these so-called outliers that [games industry] people sneer at – Angry Birds and Cut the Rope etc – these are true touchscreen games, and that's why they're so successful."That said, Fireproof worked hard to ensure that The Room felt immersive on the iPad, sucking people into the puzzles and gameplay – a desire that Meade says does come from the company's experience on console and PC games."People say that's what can't be done with an iPad game: that you'll never get the same sense of immersion, but I think they're forgetting what a difference touch makes," he says."Once you've got your audio and your visuals, the touchscreen is now a new method of immersion. People have really gotten off on the tactility of The Room and these objects. Immersion is key for people to take games seriously on the platform."Apple clearly agrees. The company has heavily promoted The Room on its App Store, and in Decemberawarded it iPad Game of the Yearin the App Store's Best of 2012 promotion – something that sent the game's sales soaring.The Room's success is also a sign that paid games aren't history, even if they aren't trousering the kind of revenues that the top freemium games are – developer Supercell isthought to be making $1m of revenue a dayfrom its Clash of Clans and Hay Day games, for example."When we were number one in the US iPad charts, we weren't even breaking the top 100 in the Top Grossing chart," says Meade. "But we're doing very well. There's absolutely room for premium games on iOS. People aren't not going to buy something because it's not free-to-play."Fireproof is flexible on this point, though, as its adoption of a freemium model for the iPhone version of The Room shows.So what next? Fireproof Studios now has 12 artists and two programmers on its team, and will continue its outsourcing work – not least because The Room has been a great showcase for the company's skills in that area.The income from the game does mean Fireproof can devote more resources to making a follow-up, as well as looking at other platforms – Meade says the studio intends to release The Room for Android, and is exploring the best way to do it."Long term it would be amazing to have done well enough that we can work solely on our own games, but time will tell," he says."When we made The Room, we had no backers, no publishing, marketing or PR people to care about, no investors. Just us spending the only money we had to make the best thing we possibly could. We came into work smiling every day!"
It began with the sounds of war drums. The cavernous interior of the massive Expo Mart in Shanghai – the former African Pavilion of the World Expo – echoed with thundering beats as a troop of silken-clad percussionists hammered away at giant drums. A packed crowd of thousands roared with delight as two massive LED screens flanking a huge, red-carpeted stage, flickered to life and became emblazoned with a familiar logo: "Starcraft II: The Wings Of Liberty". With the pomp and ceremony of a Kung Fu tournament from a Bruce Lee movie, the Battle.net Global Championship Finals of Starcraft commenced.Yes, this ornate preamble heralded the start of a videogame tournament. Over a weekend last November Battle.net would hold its e-sports Championship final in which elite players from all over the world competed for prize money amounting to more than $500,000 (£315,000) – contestants received $2,000 just for making it this far and the eventual winner walked away $100,000 richer.Depending on how steeped one is in gaming culture, an event like the Battle.net Global final can come across as more than a little bizarre. Here, individuals who plough insane amounts of time into improving their prowess at a videogame are mobbed like they're celebrities. Each time the tournament announcers read their names out over the PA, the crowd in attendance roared appreciatively – reserving their loudest screams for the lone Chinese participant in the contest, Hui Shenn (or Comm, to use his Battle.net handle). When the contestants were assembled at the start of the tournament, they were all accompanied by a beaming, uniform-clad woman carrying the flag of each of their native countries. It was like the Olympic Games for nerds.To add to the outlandishness of an event where obsessive gamers are treated like rockstars, the game at the centre of it pits hillbilly space cowboys against stoic philosophical aliens and feral xenomorphs. Starcraft II is a real time strategy game in which players control one of three distinctly different races – Terrans (humans), Protoss and Zerg – but it's shot through with the story of a Space Western on the frontiers of the universe.Starcraft and South KoreaThe original Starcraft was a huge success for the company that created it, Blizzard, when it was released back in 1997; what the California-based developer could never have predicted is that it would become outrageously popular in South Korea – so popular, in fact, it became a professional sport.It's a question that still, to some extent, puzzles Blizzard's CEO Mike Morhaime, whose face creases into a wry smile when I ask him how a Space Western became a televised sport in the Far East."It was kind of a perfect storm," he says. "First of all, the timing of our release of Starcraft was perfect in South Korea. The country was just coming out of a recession and PC Bangs – what they call internet game rooms – were popping up all over South Korea because people wanted to play Starcraft.""The game took off," he says, "and that in turn, combined with the emergence from a recession, made it necessary for the country's online infrastructure to get better. The game fed into that and vice versa."Wait a minute: Starcraft influenced the growth of South Korea's infrastructure?"The game is very competitive and it struck a huge chord in Korea," he says. "It really appealed to the Korean gamers. They were really into the competition side of it – the prestige, the ladder rankings. It became the 'thing' used to settle rivalries at schools because everybody knew who the best Starcraft players were – they were all on the leaderboards."It became a social thing, is what I heard; if you had a disagreement with someone, it was like 'I'll see you later at the PC Bang and we'll settle this!'"The popularity of Starcraft swiftly led to the rise of local and then national gaming tournaments. From there, it was only a short time before Starcraft tournaments were being televised."I think at one point there were three television channels showing Starcraft tournaments in South Korea," says Morhaime. "We were so unprepared for its success. To give you an idea of how unprepared we were, consider this: Starcraft was never designed to support multi-byte languages. In order to support more complicated languages like Korean or Chinese, you need two bytes of storage and Starcraft only had one byte."Morhaime laughs, as if his recollection brings Blizzard's initial incredulity at the whole situation flooding back. "We never localised the game in Korean," he says. "To this day Starcraft – even Brood Wars [the Starcraft expansion pack] – is only in English."Rise of e-sportsStarcraft wasn't the first videogame to be played as a sport, but it's arguably done more to popularise e-sports than any other game. The demand for tournaments has risen incrementally ever since Starcraft – and Doom and Quake – ruled the roost in the mid-to-late 90s. In the years since, its popularity has ballooned; recently, Valve's Dota 2 tournament final raked in half a million viewers, while Riot Games stated that viewing figures for their League of Legends Tournament reached upwards of 8 million. The Battle.net Global Championships, which alongside the world Starcraft II finals included the World of Warcraft arena finals, was watched by millions of people online and thousands of fans in attendance at the convention centre.The fans themselves are a passionate bunch – as one would expect from folk prepared to travel large distances to sit in front of huge screens showing a game played out between two PC wonks in booths on a massive stage. They burst into rapturous applause whenever one player gained the upper hand, drowning out the sound of the live play-by-play being doled out by the tournament announcers. I made the mistake of dithering while finding a seat and one fan made known their displeasure at having their view of the action momentarily blocked by hurling a bottle of water at my head.This enthusiasm was also evident among the local press. When one of the tournament contestants, Manuel Schenkuizen (Grubby, to his fans), sauntered into the press area, he was illuminated by photo flashes for about five minutes. Then the local photographers all took turns handing each other their cameras and having their photo snapped with him.To hear Morhaime tell it, running an event like this is a logistical nightmare."This is a very complex event to put on," he says. "I mean, think of the scale we're working at out here in China; you've got a ton of people who have had to co-ordinate their schedules to be here, we've got live broadcasters in multiple languages, we're on TV in several different countries – China and Korea …"He trails off and then smiles. "It's … big," he says finally.All this palaver naturally means that e-sports are a huge part of Blizzard's future, both as a games developer and an event runner."One of the design goals for Starcraft 2 was to factor in better features that would make a better viewing experience for e-sports," says Morhaime. "At the foundation level, the core balance of the game is critical and we're constantly looking at improving and iterating balance – especially with Heart of the Swarm (the game's new expansion pack) on the horizon."[There are some units] in Wings Of Liberty, which is in closed beta right now, in the single-player tech tree, which don't appear in the multiplayer," he says. "That gave us a lot more flexibility to create cool new stuff for the single-player campaign without worrying that we were upsetting the delicate balance in the multiplayer.""With Starcraft 2, e-sports is something that's foremost in the mind," he says. "More so than World of Warcraft. With WoW, it never was the primary goal – that's to provide a good PVE and PVP [Player v Environment and Player v Player] experience and we felt the arenas were challenging enough to inspire people to play at a higher level."Gamers' gripesThat having been said, one of the general complaints that I picked up at the finals in Shanghai – and one that has been bubbling away in the SC2 community for some time now – is that the scope of versatility within the different races in Starcraft 2 has been stagnating recently. Apparently, players have begun to gripe that the three races in the game offer a finite number of opening gambits and the elite competitors are those who can correctly spot these and react to them the quickest. It's a problem Morhaime says that Blizzard is certainly aware of."What we want to do is give players more viable options," he says, "which increases the strategic depth of the game. What's really interesting is when you see players using tactics or combinations of units that we'd never even thought of. That happens every year. "While this may be the case, the action moved a bit too fast for my untrained eyes to pick up any subtle nuances on the tactical side of things. After a weekend of watching the SC2 elite hammer away at each other, I can't claim to be any the wiser on the subject of Starcraft 2, although I can report the eventual winner, 18-year-old Won Lee-Sak (PartinG) defeated fellow South Korean Hyun Woo-Jang (Creator) quite comprehensively four games to two, and walked away with a $100,000 for his efforts.There was also a little drama when South Korean Yoon-Jong Jung (Rain), who came third, announced his retirement from e-sports at the ripe old age of 18, saying he felt he was no longer capable of making the grade in this type of competition. Then it was all over bar the shouting and fireworks.In a way, the Battle.net Global Championships could be looked at as one of the most drawn out and ferociously focussed series of beta tests for Blizzard's IPs. While the developer would never put a product into the market that wasn't meticulously balanced, the strategic know-how and willingness to experiment by some of the highest level players of e-sports highlights tactical avenues and unit potential heretofore unspotted by the game's creators. The fact that it's watched by millions of note-taking obsessives is just the icing.
We tend to think of Marvel Comics superheroes as lantern-jawed types with overdeveloped moral compasses (even though they include the motley likes of the Hulk, the Thing and X-Men). But surely none are as distant from that stereotype as Deadpool. He's a mercenary with no discernible sense of morality – pretty much the only things that interest him are guns, food, money and women. And after having Wolverine's healing factor implanted in him, he was left somewhat unhinged: he hallucinates a lot, and maintains a constant dialogue with himself inside his head. Now Activision is readying his first videogame.Deadpool the game is being made by San Diego's High Moon Studios, which has spent recent years making a series of Transformers games, and you get the impression that escaping from the confines of that worthy but restricting franchise has led to them enjoying themselves. It's a third-person action-adventure effort for the Xbox 360 and PS3, chock-full of jokes, gags and political incorrectness, with over-the-top weapons and gadgets and many a nod towards retro games. Early indications suggest it is a vehicle which should do ample justice to Deadpool's over-the-top personality.Deadpool in actionDeadpool's game director, Sean Miller, was on hand to oversee an extensive demo and talk us through the game. He was keen to point out that the game is based on the comics (even though there was a film in which Ryan Reynolds played the lead) and confirmed that Deadpool will be voiced by Nolan North, of Nathan Drake fame. He touched on High Moon's excitement at getting to make a Deadpool game: "We got to do things in the Marvel world that nobody else does: when you get an opportunity to do this kind of game, you can be really crazy and move a bit more into mature areas. Although it's always interesting when I say "mature", because mature games are full of a lot of immature stuff – that's part of what's fun about it."The game certainly captures Deadpool's internal dialogue and his tendency to hallucinate – generally for comic effect. The overall effect often strays into Duke Nukem territory, and one side-scrolling sequence in the demo looked suspiciously like a homage toPitfall! Miller acknowledged an element of paying respect to games of yore: "In the comics, Deadpool often makes reference to videogames. He has been in several videogames already, although this is the first game which is his own: he's usually a cameo character. So for us, it was an opportunity to say: "OK, Deadpool is like our target audience – he's the gamer inside all of us." And it made sense to incorporate some of his favourite things. He's known for breaking the fourth wall, and in our game, he knows he's making a videogame.""I think it's inevitable that there will be some comparisons to Duke Nukem. Definitely, as far as the irreverent humour is concerned: we do have a lot of jokes with those kind of blue themes. But I think there are some important differences in the way that we're approaching it. Deadpool as a character is somebody who is likeable. That's important to us: if he was a complete ass, you would get tired of that very quickly. We spent a lot of time making sure that what we're capturing is a guy you'd like to hang out with. He's like, say, Austin Powers meetsArchie Bunker. He does strange and wacky things, which are socially unacceptable to some people, but he's doing them because he wants to make people laugh, or he wants to have a good time."Gameplay: guns, gadgets and melee weaponsThe demo showed Deadpool is a fairly typical third-person action-adventure game, in that it mixes shooting, melee weapons and offensive gadgetry, with Deadpool's attacks chaining together into combos. As you would expect, his arsenal tends towards the outrageous – he can wield a pair of sledgehammers, for example, and one sequence showed him teaming up with the mutant future-soldierCable(a regular sidekick in the comics) at the helm of a giant fixed gun. He can charge up spectacular special moves, too. Miller went into more detail: "I like the hammers, just because they're really unconventional: the idea of using two giant sledgehammers. There's one special move where he uses them like a croquet mallet, in a very painful way. I also like some of his gadgets: he has a bear-trap."We have a couple of different things that happen in the combo system. The more successful you are, the more points you get, which you can use and spend in the store. We also have a system in which you build up your momentum. In the comics, Deadpool has to be doing stuff all the time – he's never resting. So we built that in to the combat system: you build up a resource that allows you to modify and do even bigger moves. Then we have the Spend It Now option, which is what Deadpool would do – he can't keep a dollar in his pocket. And upgrades change your experience throughout the game. They give you access to additional bonuses for those combos, additional combos and modifications that you can use."Storywise, Deadpool is deliciously preposterous: it's set on the fictional island ofGenosha, off the east coast of Africa, which was supposed to be a mutant utopia, until robots were sent to wipe its inhabitants out. So it has been abandoned for 20 years, except that Deadpool's nemesis,Mister Sinister, has moved in and started building up a mutant army. As well as Cable, Deadpool teams up withDeathwho, in this particular incarnation is female, and has a bit of a thing for Deadpool, because he can't die.Deadpool, then, isn't going to win prizes for its cerebral nature. But as the first starring vehicle on the Xbox 360 and PS3 for one of Marvel's most popular characters, it should prove pretty popular. And High Moon's execution looks pretty sharp, amusing and playable. If you're a Marvel fan, or yearn for something to fill the void left by Duke Nukem, look out for it later on this year.
Google reported $14.4bn (£9bn) in revenues for the fourth quarter of 2012 as the company announced its first ever $50bn year. The revenues comfortably beat analysts' expectations and were 36% higher than the same quarter last year but the firm also provided fresh evidence of how the shift to mobile is hitting the value of online advertising."We ended 2012 with a strong quarter," said Larry Page, Google's co-founder and CEO. "Revenues were up 36% year-on-year, and 8% quarter-on-quarter. And we hit $50bn in revenues for the first time – not a bad achievement in just a decade and a half."Total advertising revenue improved 19%, compared with 25% growth a year ago. Google's own sites generated revenues of $8.64bn, or 67% of total Google revenues, in the fourth quarter of 2012, an 18% increase over 2011. Google's partner sites generated revenues of $3.44bn, or 27% of total revenues, in the quarter. This represents a 19% increase from the fourth quarter of 2011.Google posted a quarterly profit of $2.89bn, up from $2.71bn a year earlier. Paid clicks increased 24% year on year and were up 9% from the last quarter. But this growth was tempered by a 6% fall in cost-per-click, the price paid by advertisers. Like other businesses dependent on online ads, including Facebook, Google is finding the value of its business eroded by the shift to mobile.In the third quarter Google missed analysts' expectations by a wide margin, and its results were accidentally leaked hours early. The firm's share price tumbled as Google warned that a growing shift toward mobile searches could hit revenues.Google's shares had wobbled ahead of this quarter's release. Last Friday, the company said analysts were not accounting properly for the sale of Motorola's set-top box division, bought as part of  its $12.5bn merger with Motorola Mobility.
Hello there, it's Wednesday. Any mid-week gaming action planned?
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSophie [Schmidt] In North KoreaSophie has a famous father:Bill Richardson, former Governor, US Ambassador to the UN and backchannel freelance diplomat extraordinaire, was planning his 8th trip to Democratic People's Republic of (North) Korea. He invited my father Eric, who invited me.It's a marvellous travelogue.Why I'm not trading my Surface RT for a Surface Pro &gt;&gt; ZDNetMary Jo Foley:The Surface Pro - from reports from those who were granted limited hands-on time with the device at the Consumer Electronics Show - has a higher-resolution display, better magnetic connector for powering up, and, of course, the ability to run existing Win32 apps. It also only has half the battery life of a Surface RT, so in the five-hour or so range. (From all accounts, it is not going to include the lower-power but higher-battery-life-enabling version of Intel's core i5 processor, contrary to some reports.)It's not the price difference that's going to keep me away from the $$899/$999 Surface Pro. It's the fact that it is really a PC in tablet's clothing. I am interested in buying a new Windows PC this year. But I want one with excellent battery life. (I am totally indifferent if my next PC has a touch screen. I don't need one, as long as I have a touch-enabled mouse, like the Logitech one I've been testing out lately.)Again, for me - and your mileage likely will vary - use of the Surface RT has shown me that the lack of Win32 (and even Metro-style) apps is not a big deal. I am spending about 99% of my time on the Surface RT in the Metro environment. I have found very few Metro-style apps I consider worth downloading. Instead, many of the things pinned to my Start Screen are web sites.Sounds good.This, by the way, is a big problem for Microsoft.Oh.I'm one of the lead devs on the Chrome Windows sandbox... &gt;&gt; Hacker NewsJustin Schuh says XP is a dog - a dead one - when it comes to security:Seriously, I've spent many weeks trying to wring every last bit of security I can out of XP, and I really do think that Chrome does the best anyone possibly could on that front. But in the end XP is just an OS that's far past its security expiration date, and running it at all means taking a big risk.Are you still using it? (Via Ed Bott)Huawei creating 50 jobs in Ireland &gt;&gt; The Sunday Business PostLeading Chinese information and communications technology company Huawei is to create 50 high skilled research positions with the opening of a new research and development centre spread across two sites in Cork City and Dublin.Initially the centre will focus on supporting Irish and international telecom operators who use the company's customer experience management product, SmartCare. But future expansion at the sites will extend R&amp;D functions to cover a wider range of IT software projects, said a statement from IDA Ireland, which is supporting the project.July 2012: Android, Nokia smartphone security toppled by NFC hack &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaBy exploiting multiple security weakness in the industry standard known as Near Field Communication, smartphone hacker Charlie Miller can take control of handsets made by Samsung and Nokia. The attack works by putting the phone a few centimeters away from a quarter-sized chip, or touching it to another NFC-enabled phone. Code on the attacker-controlled chip or handset is beamed to the target phone over the air, then opens malicious files or webpages that exploit known vulnerabilities in a document reader or browser, or in some cases in the operating system itself.The attack can work against Jelly Bean too, to drive the phone via NFC to a specific web page with an exploit. It's a dilemma: have NFC enabled so it's convenient, or have it disabled so you have to turn it on to make use of it only when you want (which implies having to unlock your phone and drill down through the settings to activate it).The end of ragequitting &gt;&gt; Coding HorrorJeff Atwood on Aaron Swartz, activism, and the struggle the latter implies.NEC says two phone screens are better than one with Medias W &gt;&gt; The VergeOriginally teasedclose to a year ago, the Medias W is NEC's attempt at a dual-screen folding Android smartphone. It's not an entirely new idea -- the Kyocera Echo and Sony Tablet P have done similar things to middling results -- but can NEC be the first to get it right?Questions to which the answer is 'no', because there's no getting this design idea right.High-definition TV: ne plus ultra &gt;&gt; The EconomistSo far, only a handful of feature films have been shot with cameras capable of 4K, including "The Amazing Spider-Man", "Prometheus" and "The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo". That is hardly surprising given the amount of work involved. Insiders reckon making a full-length digital feature in 4K is equivalent to producing six ordinary 2K films.Even so, some 17,000 cinemas around the world now have digital projectors capable of showing 4K films. So, if and when Hollywood upgrades wholesale to the new video standard, cinema-goers will be able to decide whether 4K is worth the premium they are bound to be charged.The recent flood of 3D films largely failed that test. The lacklustre sales of 3D television sets suggest they are now doing the same. Will 4K suffer the same fate? It is far too early to say. But, for sure, 4K television--far more than 4K cinema--faces some formidable challenges.Apart from anything, we all tend to sit too far from the screen to discern the difference. An excellent primer on why not to hold your breath for 4K - even if it is going to happen.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
