Almost every new gadget has a camera these days, which means almost every moment can be captured for posterity. But the sheer number of photos we collect as we go about our lives is becoming a nightmare of organisation.To start with, how do you store photos? In virtual albums? One massive mess sorted by date? By people, or place? Or perhaps by camera?Then there’s the pile of poor photos, the ones out of focus, misaligned or just plain missing the subject; do you weed them out, and how do you go about doing that?Apple’s iPhoto was one of the best ways to organise photos on a Mac for non-professionals. Aperture was Apple’s professional solution. Both have been replaced by just “Photos”, released last week with the latest version of OS X Yosemite 10.10.3.Photos is a complete rewrite of Apple’s photo management software, although you wouldn’t know it if you weren’t paying attention.Probably best to backup your image library before committing.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianMigrating from iPhoto is relatively straightforward. Fire up the free Photos app, select your iPhoto library and hope for the best. I migrated just under 40GB of photos from an iPhoto library, but Photos insisted on “repairing” it first. Everything went without a hitch, but I backed up the library first, just in case.Once the migration is done, the app presents users with what appears to be iPhoto, just without the sidebar (which can be reinstated).Events are now called “Albums”, which makes more sense, “Faces” are still there and tags people using facial recognition, while “Photos” is now organised into “Moments” similar to an iPhone or iPad.In fact, it’s difficult to tell what’s changed on the surface, but the app loads and operates noticeably faster and takes up 66MB of space compared to 1.7GB – a vast improvement especially for laptops with limited hard drive space and processing power.In terms of actually organising your photos it’s the same deal as iPhoto – sort them manually by album or by name of album, or just view them as one big pile. Smart albums can automatically generate collections based on picture information such as capture location or keywords you’ve manually applied to the photos.Albums can be sorted into folders of albums, which is quite useful for grouping collections together, while Photos automatically groups certain types of media together such as videos, time-lapse, burst or slow-mos taken with an iPhone.Photos is not a revolution in solving organisational issues. There’s no way to automatically find duplicates, it has no intelligence to find those photos you could safely get rid of that are out of focus or just plain poor, and you can’t sort albums by date, only manually or by name.Editing photos is easy with guided sliders, or by breaking each setting down into individual elements.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPhotos is a big step up in image processing, however, with a raft of easy to use but powerful image editing features. Adjusting the lighting, saturation and turning the image black and white is easy using simple sliders, or can be broken down into individual settings for fine tuning. Tools for adjusting white balance, sharpening an image and adjusting colour levels are all easier to use than most other image editing apps, with impressive results.A range of Instagram-style colour filters are available, as is an auto enhance feature, while crop, rotate, resizing, healing and red-eye removal tools are all there. For the vast majority of image edits and quick touchups, Photos is all most will need.Neither iPhoto or Aperture will be updated going forward, which means users of either are faced with a dilemma – upgrade to Photos for free, switch to a more advanced product like Adobe Lightroom, or stay stuck with their current version until it can no longer run.For most users Photos is at least as good as iPhoto. It’s not revolutionary in the organisation department, but it is an improvement in speed and image editing. For Aperture users, however, it’s a step down. If you made batch adjustments based on camera, lens or lighting settings you will need to look elsewhere.•The 25 best alternatives to Photoshop•Six of the best system cameras: tried and tested
When you play the Game of Thrones, as Cersei Lannister famously observed, you win or you die. And at this particular moment, my chances for survival didn’t look too good.I’d set out from my home on Dragonstone intent on raiding the Lannister lands on the eastern shores of Westeros. With a strong force of cavalry, infantry and ships, I’d planned a succession of lightning attacks that would culminate in my seizing the city of King’s Landing and establishing House Baratheon as the rightful holders of the Iron Throne.Things hadn’t gone quite as I had intended.My forces had been battered back, and now I found myself beleaguered and cowering in my own stronghold, waiting for the inevitable Lannister counterattack. Only a timely intervention from the Stark armies marching from the North – and controlled by my wife – could save me.I looked her in the eye with a pitiful, pleading expression – my spouse and best friend and partner of almost a decade. She couldn’t meet my gaze, and in that cold and lingering instant I knew that help wasn’t coming.That’s just the sort of situation thatA Game of Thrones: the Board Gameis precision engineered to create. First published in 2003, long before HBO’s screen adaptation made the series a household name, it takes the betrayal, bloodshed and intrigue of George R. R. Martin’s A Song of Ice and Fire novels and deposits them on to your living room table.A Game of Thrones: the Board Game hands players command of forces on land and at sea.Photograph: Owen DuffyGaming’s connection with science fiction and fantasy is long-standing. J.R.R. Tolkien’s Lord of the Rings saga alone has spawned countless official board, card and video game adaptations in the decades since its publication, and its influence is clearly visible in other products like the iconic Dungeons &amp; Dragons roleplaying game and the massively money-spinning Warhammer miniature battle system.Tabletop gamers have also benefited from adaptations of Marvel and DC comics, Star Wars, Star Trek, and the cosmic horror fiction of prolific author H.P. Lovecraft.But the Song of Ice and Fire Series may be a better candidate for a gaming makeover than any of its predecessors. Its creator is himself an avid gamer. In a2011 interview with MTV(available only to US audiences) he spoke of his enjoyment of tabletop roleplaying.Fittingly enough for a tabletop adaptation of Martin’s notoriously chunky novels, A Game of Thrones is a big beast. It takes up to six hours to play, its rulebook is 30 pages long and it comes with a bewildering collection of more than 500 cards, chips, pawns and tokens. Played on a detailed map of the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros, it’s a heavy, taxing and unashamedly complex exercise in strategy.But in spite of its steep learning curve, the game has proven popular. Paul McLachlan, owner of specialist games shop Spellbound Games, said it had consistently sold well ever since its release.“People buy it because they’re fans of the show, but also because it’s genuinely just a really good game,” he said.“The components and artwork and production values are great, but more importantly it does a really great job of capturing the spirit of the series. You see a lot of licensed games that just have a theme tacked on - the publishers just want to capitalise on a popular intellectual property. But A Game of Thrones really feels just like the books.”The game struck a balance between military conflict and diplomacy, he said.“The first time I played it we got about 45 minutes in before we realised that to win the game, you really need someone to stab in the back. There’s all of this political manoeuvring. You make deals with other players, butter people up, form alliances of convenience and then betray one another.“The battles are a big part of the game, but they’re not the only part. It’s like the series in that respect - it’s really a political drama with added fighting.”There’s no such thing as friendship in the Game of ThronesThat sense of intrigue is deeply embedded in the game’s core. On every round, players issue secret orders to the units under their control by placing tokens face-down on the board. You might choose to move troops between territories, lay siege to a rival’s castle or shore up your defences against an expected attack.Crucially, though, players can also support one side or another in battles between their opponents, making alliances between players a critical element of the game.“You have to band together,” said McLachlan. “But alliances are ultimately about what you get out of them. Eventually someone is going to end up being betrayed.“You can really lose friends over it. At the end of the day it’s a game and you shouldn’t take it seriously, but it’s such a long game and you put so much time and effort into positioning your troops and securing the resources you need, when an ally turns on you you just ask: how could you do that to me?”Also: a lightweight card game, and a role-playing gameIf this all seems like a lot of effort, or you’re worried about irreparably damaging your relationships with fellow players, it’s not your only option for gaming in the Seven Kingdoms.A Game of Thrones: The Card Game, also published by Fantasy Flight, takes about an hour and a half to play, seats up to four players and boasts a large collection of add-on chapter packs, adding new characters and elements to the game. Like its bigger board game sibling, it’s based on the original novels rather than the HBO adaptation, so Kit Harington’s floppy hair, puppy dog eyes and washboard abs are regrettably absent. And with a second edition of the game in the works, it might be worth waiting for the release of the revised version.Game of Thrones: Westeros Intrigue is far simpler and quicker. It’s also released under licence for the TV series, so it bears suitably impressive pictures of Sean Bean, Charles Dance, Sophie Turner and their cast-mates. Unfortunately, it’s a pretty blatant example of a popular theme being tacked on to a completely unrelated game. It’s supposed to be all about building a network of conspirators in order to claim ultimate power, but in reality it’s just a reasonably engaging five minute puzzle game about stacking coloured cards in the right order.If you’re looking for something more engaging, though, and with a far more credible sense of immersion in the lore of Westeros, you could try A Song of Ice and Fire Roleplaying from Green Ronin Games.A tabletop roleplaying game, it casts players as characters in a shared story set in the Game of Thrones universe. One player serves as a combination of referee and narrator, describing scenes and laying down challenges to be overcome. The others take on the roles of knights, knaves, squires and schemers working to advance their own ends and those of their House. The whole experience is something like a very intimate form of live, improvisational theatre.A Song of Ice and Fire Roleplaying puts you in the shoes of a character in George R. R. Martin’s fantasy world - if that’s somewhere you’re sure you’d like to be.Photograph: Green Ronin PublishingIf you’ve ever played Dungeons &amp; Dragons, it’s a very similar concept – but with added lashings of seduction and gore.Before your first game you’ll generate the House to which the characters belong. You’ll inject this new faction into the Game of Thrones timeline, allowing players to witness – or completely alter – key points in the narrative. If you’ve always wished Ned Stark could have kept his head on his shoulders, this is your chance to make it happen.And here’s three more popular from-screen-to-cardboard franchisesGame of Thrones isn’t the only TV hit to get the tabletop treatment. Recent years have seen a number of series spawn licensed board games.Spartacus: A Game of Blood and Treachery combines the politicking and bloodshed of the STARZ series.Photograph: Gale Force 9 GamesBased on the STARZ series,Spartacus: A Game of Blood and Treacherysees players become the heads of the leading families of ancient Rome. To rise above your rivals, you’ll have to become adept at the brutal art of the arena as well as the equally deadly disciplines of politicking and intrigue.The Battlestar Galactica board game sees unknown players adopt the role of Cylons - robotic enemies out to betray their comrades.Photograph: NBCUPHOTOBANK / Rex FeaturesBattlestar Galactica- based on the 2004 reworking rather than the 1978 original series - tasks players with working together to defend humanity’s last survivors in the face of a ruthless onslaught by the robotic Cylons. But the players have traitors in their midst - one or more of their number will be secretly working to destroy them, and working out who to trust means the difference between life and death.In Firefly: the Game, players become free-booting spaceship captains carrying out legal and not-so-legal missions.Photograph: Gale Force 9 GamesInFirefly the Game, players take on the role of spaceship captains in Joss Whedon’s much-loved and inexplicably cancelled space-western hybrid series. You’ll recruit crew members, upgrade your ship and complete jobs for anyone who’s willing to pay - all the while trying to evade the long arm of the ruling Alliance and escape death at the hands of the savage Reavers.
Hello Thursday.
It’s a little unclear whether Joseph Stalin actually said, “the death of one man is a tragedy; the death of millions is a statistic”, but it seems about right.The number of lives the Soviet dictator ended is so large that it is mind-boggling. And it seems “mind-boggling” is a literal description of what happens when we encounter large numbers. It seems humans don’t really know how to process figures which they can’t personally relate to, and this has surprising consequences.In 1992 a study entitled Measuring Nonuse Damages Using Contingent Valuation: An Experimental Evaluation of Accuracy explored how we assign value to things that don’t have a market price (like the environment, or life itself). This field of study, called contingent valuation, means asking people to put a price on, say, a view. Or non-oil-covered seabirds.That’s exactly what this study did. Researchers asked people how much they would pay to save 2,000, 20,000, or 200,000 seabirds that were covered in oil, to test how the scale of a disaster affected the perceived cost of fixing it. What they found was that the scale didn’t really affect the number at all. For 2,000 seabirds the average value assigned was $80. For 20,000, $78, and for 200,000, $88.This phenomenon is extension neglect. It seems that we don’t cope well with escalating numbers: so much like with oil-covered seabirds, the loss of a million lives is a statistical reality, not a personal one.The implications of this are huge. Behavioural economics has demonstrated that we navigate most of life through heuristic shortcuts, best guesses and instinct. But if one of those heuristics is blindness to scale, it’s a bigger issue than just not being able to process. It implies that bigger numbers are inherently dehumanising. We become detached from the people, or birds, or wild habitats behind them.Given that nearly every corporation and government that touches our lives is in thrall to thebig datajuggernaut, that’s something we should pause and think about.A starker version of the seabird experiment was carried out by two academics, Loran Nordgren and Mary-Hunter Morris McDonnell. They applied this form of extension neglect to human interactions. In their paper, The Scope-Severity Paradox: Why Doing More Harm is Judged to be Less Harmful , Nordgren and Morris McDonnell describe two experiments:In the first, two groups of people are told that a financial advisor has defrauded some clients and they are asked to set a punishment of between one and 10 years in prison. The first group is told there are three victims and the second group is told there are 30 victims. The first group, on average, handed down a sentence of 4.8 years. The second group – the group that were told there were 10 times as many victims – handed down on average just 3.8 years.Nordgren and McDonnell’s second experiment was even more revealing. They described a food company that knowingly allows a product that would make people ill to go on sale because a recall would bankrupt them. One group is told that two people become ill; the second group is told that 20 people become ill.Again, the punishment dealt out by the group where there were two victims (5.8 years) exceeded that from the group with 20 victims (4.2 years). They also introduced a third group – this group was also told 20 people became ill but was shown a picture of one of the victims, a 22-year-old student called Sara. This group handed down an average sentence of 5.8 years. Nordgren and McDonnell could not find a way to make the punishment for causing greater harm more severe than for less harm. This was as close as they got.The impact of “Sara” demonstrates how the face of an individual can help counteract our blindness to the numbers. Charities are pretty good at utilising this: they’ve learned that to drive disaster relief or regular donations, an image of a single victim is more powerful than any number of facts, figures and statistics.But focusing on individual people has fallen out of fashion. Empathy is seen as kind of hokey, a throwback to a time when grand pronouncements or broad themes could be made without the pesky interference of facts. We mistrust those who make an appeal to feelings rather than facts. And so much of our world, and nearly all of our digital world, is developed using data points and numbers.The consequences of this gap are far-reaching, in smaller and more pervasive ways than Stalin’s quote or the seabird study demonstrate.As our interactions with the world become more digital, from the way we access government services to how we manage our money – even how we stay in touch with our friends – this oversight gains significance.When you start to look for it, you see these gaps everywhere. Whether it’s the governments’ unauthorised spying, smart TVs eavesdropping on users to improve voice commands, Facebook broadcasting whatever people are doing to their friends without their knowledge, or Uber’s endless PR gaffes as itplays with our data, our inability to connect large datasets with real people is rampant. Big numbers dehumanise us, and the bigger the numbers, the worse the effect.Dan Hon, content director at Code for America writes regularly about this “empathy gap”, which he describes as the “distance between an organisation and its audience such that, at worst, it’s clear that the organisation is wilfully ignoring how its audience might feel”.The use of the word “feel” is important here, because feelings are very difficult to measure. Organisations (Uber is a perennial example) can be amazing at understanding what their audiences want, but totally blind to how they might feel.Feelings don’t really create a lot of data points. The social, economic, and even humanitarian impact of the data we produce and use is enormous, even if it’s not quantifiable. Perhaps it’s time we acknowledge the value of empathy, whether we can measure it or not.Martin Harrison isplanning director at marketing agency Huge
Google it today and you’ll see that the European Commission has turned up the heat in its long-running probe into anti-competitive behaviour by the web’s most popular search engine. EC competition chief, Margrethe Vestager,issued formal objectionsalleging that Google abuses its dominant position in the market of “general internet search”. In particular, the ECclaimsthat Google artificially boosts its own products in returning Google comparison shopping results in its service “Google Shopping”, even if those products aren’t the best or cheapest – the “most relevant”, as the Commission puts it – for consumers.Since taking office in November 2014, Vestager has made the Google inquiry a top priority, signalling a willingness to consider court battles and hefty fines if Google and other digital giants don’t fall into line with European competition law. In this, she has displayed a distinct shift from her predecessor, Joaquín Almunia, whose multipleattemptsto achieve private settlement with Googlefell aparta year ago, before descending into a political and economic boxing match.Vestager’s announcement comes amidst increasingrestlessnessby European policymakers that “something must be done” about Google. Identifying with precision the source of that anxiety, and the appropriate focus of action, is rather more challenging. And it forces us to ask: what does the artillery of competition law offer? And is it gunning for the right target?Accelerating complaints - or at least some of themThe EC’s current accusation is extremely narrow. It focuses on the first and clearest of a number of complaints filed in 2009-10 by various Google competitors - from other giants, such as Microsoft, to small, struggling or defunct web businesses. These complaints range from the EC’s current focus on Google’s prioritisation of its own products within vertical search services (currently, shopping, but this extends to maps, flights and news), to issues with Google’s scraping and fencing of datasets, often exclusively and at unmatched scale.It is this sheer volume of data, matched with the self-reinforcing effect of Google’s market share (the more people search, the better search becomes), that makes its de facto monopoly such a concern, but also such a challenge to combat. Vestager’s announcement falls short of these broader concerns. She was at pains to point out the preliminary, fact-driven, legally-focused, apolitical nature of her inquiry. Such an approach is safe – it falls clearly within the domain of European competition law, and it accelerates Google towards addressing some real competitor concerns, even if some of those competitors are now more interested in backward compensation rather than forward innovation.But while strategic for the track record of the Commission, this new development is rather less strategic for the broader digital landscape.You can’t Google your way out of a power vacuumLet’s return to the market in which Google is dominant: “general internet search”. This is a market that didn’t exist 20 years ago. And it is a market that cannot be underestimated. It is the marketplace of human knowledge, queries, anxieties, ideas, journeys, hopes, sorrows and dreams. The sociopolitical problem with search engines and, in particular, the search engine, is worthy of deepFoucaultian analysis. Search engines are not officially-sanctioned maps, nor old-style phone directories or broadcast services – all of which may be privatised, but are subject to oversight, transparency requirements and regulation. Google is our contemporary maker and breaker of truth, commerce and the stuff of life. But it shapes our lives silently and without oversight and reprieve.As Maryland law professor Frank Pasquale writes in hisacclaimednew book,The Black Box Society: “Google is not really a competitor in numerous markets, but instead serves as a hub and kingmaker setting the terms of competition for others.” For Pasquale, the solution lies in greater transparency. “Google’s secrecy keeps rivals from building upon its methods or even learning from them,” he writes. “Missing results are an ‘unknown unknown’: users for whom certain information is suppressed do not even know that they do not know the information.” The irony of the situation is that Google knows so much about us, and we know so little about it.The transparency conundrumThe core of the problem with competition law is that it seems a poor and ill-adapted game of mudslinging, and it is only peripheral to thereal problem:power. At best, the European Commission’s initiative may require some marginal reconfiguration of Google’s algorithms and presentation of results, and possibly some payouts, with no equivalent benefit in engendering the flourishing of new innovation.Very few policymakers have cottoned onto the broader implications of what society loses when we lose variegated search strategies, information sources, and publicly-owned datasets that permit a variety of services to flourish, favouring instead the creation of black box systems, tailored to predicting collective behaviours. Such predictive capabilities, at scale, are not only harmful in terms of how they dictate economic winners and losers, but in terms of the potential for price-discrimination and, worst of all, impairment of individual choice, autonomy and free will. The total opacity of search and its interventions make manipulation invisible from the point of view of users. All users see is the supposedly objective final results, not the interventions by the gatekeeper.That’s why another initiative this week, likely to be overshadowed by the EC’s announcement, shows particular promise. Three members of the French senate, led byCatherine Morin-Desailly,one of the fiercest critics ofmass surveillanceandtech monopolies, have aproposalfor Google to make its search algorithms (or the communications that inform it) transparent to the French telecomms regulator, Arcep, a body of 170 digital experts. While Google will likely claim that its algorithms are so complex that even its own engineers do not understand theirHeath Robinsonesque machinations, the bold French proposal recognises that Google search did not simply emerge of its own accord. Algorithms are human creations, and they need to serve human needs.
Luzu used to work at a TV production company, but in 2011 he launched his own YouTube channel calledLuzuVlogs. Four years on, the Spanish-language vlogging channel has nearly 1.6 million subscribers, with Luzu now running two others.“I actually have a bigger audience in my channel than the TV company I used to work for,” he said in an appearance at the MIPTV conference in Cannes, in a session that aimed to provide practical advice to any creator trying to build their audience on YouTube.Related:‘History, yes. Science, sure. Sharks, yes’ – what millennials want from factual TV“The greatest thing about this is we are defining a lot of things. The way people consume content is changing, and this way of doing content responds to the needs that they have rather than telling them how they should do it,” he said. Here are the highlights of his advice.Don’t just follow trendsA lot of budding YouTubers look at what’s popular on the online video service, and copy it. Luzu suggested that there might be a much better starting point based on what they’renotwatching.“For me, from the beginning it was ‘What am I missing? What would I like to see?’,” he said. “A lot of people were concentrating on ‘What do people watch? What is the most famous and cool thing right now? Maybe that’s not the way to go because there is someone really good doing it already.”Be patient in the early daysAlmost no one uploads their first video to YouTube and becomes a massive success straight away – and when they do, that doesn’t mean they can repeat it. Luzu encouraged creators to be patient and keep plugging away.“You have to keep in mind that it takes a long time. I spent a lot of time having 30 people watching my videos!” he said. “And then there is one moment where everybody shares it, and they go back to your old videos. So there isn’t a moment wasted along the way.”He was being interviewed at MIPTV by YouTube’s David Ripert, who had similar advice. “We think it’s best to start consistently with a show, and be patient and start building the audience from zero,” said Ripert.It’s worth investing in equipmentWith a background in TV production, Luzu started with an advantage over the average bedroom vlogger. Even so, he noted that nowadays, people can get up and running at zero cost if they have a decent smartphone already in their pocket.“Flip it and you can do video. You are spending zero dollars and you can monetise those videos and when you grow you get money,” he said. However, once that money comes in, it may be worth investing in a proper camera, which may be more affordable than you think.“Nowadays it’s not expensive to have equipment that will make your content look good,” he said. “My vlogs looked a little bit better because they had depth of field and a little bit more texture.”Related:TV industry faces its ‘ketchup’ moment: ‘Mobile is now the first screen’You don’t necessarily need a large crewLuzu runs his channel with one other person, his girlfriend. As he has grown, he has resisted the temptation to start hiring a large crew.“We don’t need crews,” he said. “You really just need one or two people. I could do some of these formats by myself, but it still reaches hundreds of thousands of people and that’s because it’s based on personality and what you’re saying.”He added that he relishes the ability to write, present but also market and even handle the accounting. “We get to wear all these hats that in a production company different people on the team would wear,” he said earlier in the day, during a separate session.Invest time in social mediaA common theme for YouTubers is that they don’t just interact with their fans on YouTube: most spend a lot of time on Twitter, Facebook and other social platforms and apps – it’s as important a part of the job as making the videos in the first place“I definitely spend a lot of time on social media. There is a constant dialogue with the audience,” said Luzu. “Here people are looking at someone in the eye when they are watching a vlogger, they are feeling connected and they want to talk to that person.”Earlier, he’d expressed similar sentiments. “It’s something that comes with YouTube: people feel extremely connected with content creators. Creators are connected with people who watch their videos, and you want them to feel like that,” he said.“It’s very different to traditional media: you keep a constant conversation. Social media is a great way to engage with the audiences when you’re not uploading videos, to help them feel part of what you’re doing.”Collaborate, but bring something original to the tableOne of the proven ways for YouTubers to build their audiences is by collaborating with one another, with emerging channels able to quickly pick up subscribers through a canny collab with a bigger star. Luzu said one key to finding collaborators is to look for people at your level who are also on their way up.He also suggested that it’s not enough just to want to collaborate: YouTubers need to think what they have that’s original to bring to a new video with someone else, rather than sitting in on whatever they do already. For example: animation or musical skills, or access to an interesting location.Related:‘Traditional TV viewing for teens and tweens is dead. Not dying. Dead.’Luzu also suggested that email may not be the best way to contact a popular YouTuber about a collaboration: “I have about 200,000 unread emails!” he said, before noting that when he was growing, he’d found Twitter useful for connecting with other creators.Consider multiple channels as you growAll YouTube creators start with a single channel, but Luzu said that as his had got more popular, he felt the need to launch the others to avoid a one-size-fits-all approach to his videos.“Depending on the target that you’re trying to get to there might be a different language to get to them. Kids like certain things, and teenagers other things, and adults different things,” he said.That’s why Luzu has one channel focused on gaming, which reaches a younger audience, and another with more of a question-and-answer format, which appeals more to teenagers. “And then adults want more content and more meat. That’s why I have three channels,” he said.
A small box that appears at the top of some Google search results lies at the heart of the European commission’s statement of objection, issued on Wednesday to the search engine over possible anti-competitive practices.Historically, when a visitor to Google performed a general web search, they were given a fairly standard layout of results. Paid adverts appear at the top, and down the side; and the rest of the results are standard links to web pages, arranged in a manner which the company’s algorithm deems most likely to put relevant results at the top.Increasingly, however, Google searches also return results for the company’s other services, such as Google Travel, Google Maps and Google Shopping. Instead of simply being arranged by order of relevance, these results are inserted at or near the top of the page, consistently, for searches which Google deems to be in the correct area.Related:Google faces antitrust action from EU competition watchdogIt’s the last of those, Google Shopping which forms the focus of the commission’s objection. Searching for consumer goods on Google leads to a small box at the top of the page, offering links to a number of online retailers where the item searched for can be purchased.A search for Playstation 4, for instance, offers links to Zavvi.com, TheHut.com, Very, eBay and Argos, under the headline “Shop for Playstation 4 on Google”. Clicking on the headline takes a visitor to Google’s shopping service.The commission’s preliminary view is that that treatment “is an abuse of its dominant position in web search”. If it hardens that view against Google, competition commissioner Margrethe Vestager suggested that action against similar services such as Google Travel could follow.At the same time, the commission announced an investigation into Google’s practices around Android, its mobile operating system. The investigation is less developed than that against Google Shopping, but currently focuses on three main areas where the commissioners see potentially anticompetitive practice.First, that Google allegedly requires or incentivises smartphone manufacturers to exclusively preinstall Google’s services, leveraging its dominance in mobile operating systems to extend its web services business; second, that Google allegedly bundles diverse products together, ensuring that manufacturers who want to preinstall popular Google services are forced to also preinstall less-popular ones alongside; and third, that manufacturers who want to produce Android devices with any Google services at all are allegedly banned from using and developing other versions of Android, known as forks of the operating system.
The European Union has accused Google of cheating competitors by distorting internet search results in favour of its own shopping service as it laid formal charges against the US technology company.The EU competition commissioner, Margrethe Vestager, said Google, which dominates search engines globally, had been sent a statement of objections – effectively a charge sheet – to which it can respond. Signalling Brussels’ renewed determination to take the battle to the company, it also opened an investigation into Google’s Android system which is used in about 80% of smartphones worldwide.“Dominant companies have a responsibility not to abuse their powerful market position by restricting competition with others in markets where they are dominant or in neighbouring markets,” Vestager told a Brussels press conference.“Our preliminary view is that in its general search results, Google artificially favours its own company’s shopping service and that this constitutes an abuse.”The EU’s five-year inquiry found that in Google searches, the US firm gave prominence to its own comparison shopping services, regardless of their relevance to the search query, which diverted traffic away from competitors.“We see that Google has engaged in misconduct in a broad number of member states since 2008 and continues to do so,” Vestager said. “The commercial importance of appearing prominently in Google search results is obvious.” She added: “If you can’t be found, you can’t do business.”Ina blog post, Google argued that internet users had more choice than ever before, and could access information in multiple ways. “We respectfully but strongly disagree with the need to issue a statement of objections and look forward to making our case over the weeks ahead,” said Amit Singhal, a senior vice-president at Google.Other industry groups said that without legal action, Google would have continued to ignore European competition rules.Google denies it has contravened EU laws and has 10 days to respond to the allegations.Photograph: Dado Ruvic/ReutersDavid Wood, legal counsel for Icomp, an industry association part-sponsored by Microsoft, said: “We see this statement of objections as a crucial first step towards ensuring that European consumers have access to vibrant and competitive online markets.”Google has 10 weeks to respond to the antitrust charges, with a potential fine of up to 10% of its annual turnover – or $6bn (£4bn) – now hanging over its head. A separate EU investigation has been launched into incentives offered by the internet search giant to smartphone manufacturers to pre-install and bundle apps and services on its Android operating system, used by manufacturers such as Samsung, HTC and Sony.Vestager said the EU would investigate whether Google was hindering smartphone and tablet manufacturers from “forking” Android, using the free codebase that underpins the operating system to develop competing software free of Google’s influence.Hiroshi Lockheimer, Google’s vice-president of Android engineering saidin an online statement: “The European commission has asked questions about our partner agreements. It’s important to remember that these are voluntary – you can use Android without Google – but provide real benefits to Android users, developers and the broader ecosystem.”Android is the world’s largest operating system, with an81% shareof the smartphone market, according to some estimates, giving rise to fears about market dominance. Google’s web search market share is over 90% in Europe, and the complaint against it in Europe was brought by Microsoft, TripAdvisor, Streetmap and others.The UK-based Institute of Directors, a business lobby group, applauded the EU’s robust approach but warned against kneejerk reactions. “The European commission should take care to ensure that its investigation focuses on substantive breaches of EU competition law and not be dragged into a politically motivated protectionist battle with the US,” said Allie Renison, its head of EU and trade policy.Google has denied the charges.Photograph: Michael Gottschalk/Photothek via Getty ImagesThe European consumer organisation BEUC welcomed what it saw as EU enforcement of a ”non-discrimination principle” that would allow citizens to get fair and neutral search results.Monique Goyens, the group’s director, said: “Search engines are consumers’ entry points for product information and price comparisons. Manipulating search results leads to broader problems for Europe’s digital economy, as Google’s market share means it essentially decides which companies are placed in the shop window. Such control restricts access, thereby reducing competition and resulting in less consumer choice.”Three other EU investigations will continue into Google’s alleged misuse of competitors’ content, imposition of exclusivity restrictions on third-party websites that show Google search results, and operation of numerous restrictions that make it hard for advertisers to transfer data about their campaigns to competing platforms.The EU believes that any legal success against Google could establish a broader precedent for enforcement of the bloc’s competition rules with other market search services.Arecent US inquiry by the Federal Trade Commissiondecided not to press charges against Google for demoting, refusing to display or linking to rival websites. But the ripples from any action by the EU could be felt across the Atlantic, and act as a spur to similar investigations into Google taking place in other countries.“If the commission decides to go ahead with charges, it could have an impact beyond Europe, in the US and other places that Google is under investigation such as India and Russia as well,” Wood said.Vestager is due to fly to the US on Wednesday for high-level business and political meetings.
Brian Robbins, the chief executive of multi-channel network (MCN) AwesomenessTV, clearly knows the value of a punchy soundbite to wake up the audience at a television industry conference.“Everyone knows that traditional TV viewing for teens and tweens is dead. Not dying. Dead,” Robbins told the audience at the MIPTV conference in Cannes.“In the US alone, networks like MTV and Nickelodeon have lost that core audience that have traditionally kept them afloat,” he continued. “Everyone knows that content consumption has moved to YouTube, online and mobile.”Robbins’s was the most bullish pitch yet in a conference that’s seen plenty of bullish pitches from MCNs, with all of them talking up the trend of young viewers abandoning linear television.There’s a paradox, though. At the same time as telling broadcasters that their audience is melting away, the MCNs are trying to repackage their web shows to sell to those networks. Why? Because TV budgets are still – for now, at least – beefier than advertising revenues on YouTube.The latter’s economics work well for vloggers and “Let’s Play” gamers, but when companies like AwesomenessTV want to make TV-quality shows, selling them to broadcasters for “traditional” viewing is part of the business model. Even if traditional TV viewing for their anticipated viewers is dead.Robbins, who remained head of AwesomenessTV after selling the company to DreamWorks Animation in 2013, spent much of his MIPTV appearance talking about this “Generation Z” of teens and tweens.“In less than three years we’ve become the number one destination on YouTube for teens,” he said of AwesomenessTV, which programmes 25 shows a week for its main channels including dramas and reality shows, but also runs a network of 90,000 vloggers.“Those channels represent over 100 million subscribers and about a billion video views a month. That doesn’t make us the biggest MCN, for sure, but we own teens – and not just on YouTube,” said Robbins, whose company also makes shows for Nickelodeon and Netflix, is producing six feature films, and has a division that manages famous YouTubers like Tyler Oakley and Ingrid Nilsen.Brian Robbins on stage at MIPTV.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the Guardian“Why are we so hyper-focused on one audience? Teens are changing the way every generation before them consumes content, creates content and the way they communicate. Being able to understand and create for this audience means being at the front lines of trends, and being at the front lines of innovation,” said Robbins.“Generation Z is the most influential audience ever … more so than millennials. Paying attention to Generation Z will ensure that your company or brand will be setting the trends instead of reacting to them.”Robbins talked about AwesomenessTV’s film ambitions, having topped the iTunes chart in December 2014 withExpelled, a movie starring online star Cameron Dallas that had been shot in 22 days as “a modern-day Ferris Bueller’s Day Off”.“This film accomplished in four months what it takes most studios four years to do: create a hit movie that resonates with the audience most important to follow,” said Robbins, who also talked up an upcoming film starring musical/comedy bandThe Janoskians.“If you don’t know what a Janoskian is, you’re probably already in trouble with Generation Z,” he said. “They have nearly 2m subscribers on YouTube and they just headlined a show at Wembley Arena, which we filmed … It’s Spinal Tap for this generation.”Robbins was joined on-stage at MIPTV by Meg DeAngelis, one of AwesomenessTV’s stable of online stars, withnearly 2.4 million subscribers to her YouTube channel, which started as clips of cheerleading stunts, and has evolved into a mixture of vlogging and how-to tutorials.“The more views those videos got, the more subscribers I got, and the more feedback I got about my content. They wanted to know more about my world outside of cheerleading,” said DeAngelis. “I’ve grown from 200,000 or 300,000 subscribers to 2.3 million in the last year, which is kinda huge for me.”In some respects, AwesomenessTV is following a well-established playbook in how it handles its stars: building their audiences online may be new, but creating TV-style vehicles for them is reminiscent of Disney.In DeAngelis’s case, thats a show called Royal Crush, which Robbins said has averaged more than 1 million viewers per episode online.He added that it’s the result of a brand partnership with cruise operator Royal Caribbean: “One of the best examples of how brands, no matter who they are, can make content with us to market to this audience in a meaningful way.”To prove to the MIPTV crowd how popular DeAngelis is, she snapped an on-stage selfie with Robbins and uploaded it to Instagram and Facebook, popping back onto the stage later during his speech to announce that “our selfie has more than 50,000 likes now”.Curiously, it had just over 2,300 likes on Instagram at the time (and has since been deleted) whilethe Facebook versionhas less than 1,000 likes at the time of writing: perhaps a hint that TV companies should take some statistics thrown at them by digital disrupters with a pinch of salt:Meg DeAngelis’ selfie from MIPTV.Still, AwesomenessTV is pressing on with its plans to expand, making its Richie Rich show for Netflix, and signing a partnership with US telecoms firm Verizon for its upcoming YouTube-style online video service.“70% of our audience consumes our content on mobile devices. They watch content on their phone, but it isn’t a phone, it’s a media hub that happens to make calls,” said AwesomenessTV president Brett Bouttier, who also joined Robbins on-stage in Cannes.“We recently partnered with them [Verizon] to create 200 hours of original programming in the next year. They are shortly announcing a new service that will feature several channels from our studios,” he said.“The importance of our partnership with Verizon is massive: not only getting into the content business, but doing so in such a way that puts such a strong focus on the behaviours of Generation Z.”AwesomenessTV is also expanding globally, with its chief digital officer Kelly Day announcing on-stage plans to open local production offices in the UK, Spain, Germany, France and Brazil.“We’ll develop TV series and movies that speak to teens in their own languages, and distribute them across all of their favourite social and online video platforms. And we don’t plan to stop at those countries,” she said.Robbins and DeAngelis’ on-stage selfie.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianRobbins finished off by announcing that another AwesomenessTV movie, made with YouTubers Smosh, will premiere 23 July at the VidCon conference, before returning to the central theme of his pitch to the television industry.“Generation Z is shaping the way that every other generation communicates. They’re our new trailblazers.”
Looking back, it’s hard to appreciate the impact Guitar Hero made on gaming a decade ago. It wasn’t the first rhythm action game, of course. Konami had already paved the way with its Beatmania and Guitar Freaks arcade titles. But with that huge licensed track list and cleverly designed guitar controller it brought the concept of music gaming into millions of homes, kickstarting a multimillion-dollar industry. Original developer Harmonix would later go on to extend the concept with Rock Band, introducing drums and a mic, but Guitar Hero plucked away for another five major releases, adding hundreds of tracks and enlivening many long nights indoors.Then it was over. A bloated release list of downloadable content (DLC) and themed editions, together with an ever expanding roster of revised controllers, accelerated the general sense of genre fatigue. People felt they had taken all they could from the idea of copying note sequences from a rolling onscreen display.A few months after the release of 2010’s Guitar Heroes: Warriors of Rock, Activision announced it was putting the series into temporary retirement. Not long after, Leamington-based studio Freestyle Games, previously responsible for the spinoff DJ Hero series, was tasked with rethinking the whole concept. A small R&amp;D team was formed with creative director Jamie Jackson at its head. They started brainstorming.“We wanted to take it back to its roots,” he says. “We asked ourselves, what is it about Guitar Hero that resonated in the first place? So we sat around a table telling each other about our favourite experiences. For me it was taking Guitar Hero 2 around to the family home at Christmas. I said to my Dad: ‘you have to play this, it’s got The Who.’ He refused, he said: ‘I don’t pay games.’ But I showed him what to do and five minutes later he’s posing like Pete Townsend with that wide-leg stance, strumming wildly. It was so cool to see. Eventually he even hit a note – though more by luck than judgement.”They realised, quite rightly, that Guitar Hero is about the liberating fantasy of being a rock star. When you reach a certain level, there are moments in the best songs, when you forget you’re playing a plastic guitar in front of a TV screen. You’re somewhere else. “It’s about getting into character,” says Jackson. “It’s putting the strap around your neck, adopting the stance, getting ready for the note. All of a sudden your persona changes, it’s physical. It’s not like holding a normal game controller.”The first thing the team did was rethink the guitar itself, with its brightly coloured line of five buttons along the fretboard. That had to change. “For me, as soon as I had to use my little finger - it all just fell apart,” laughs Jackson. “We found that a lot of people had the same problem – and they stayed at medium difficulty as a result. So we came up with the idea of stacking the buttons into two rows of three. Instead of just speeding up and intensifying the number of notes, we’re getting the player to simulate different chord shapes. There’s this lovely depth to it. The challenge is to get your fingers into the correct position rather than just running them up and down the neck as fast as you can.”Apart from that, the action is similar to the original games: a highway of notes appears on screen and you select the correct fret button, then hit the strum pad in time to the music. In Easy mode, you only have to use the bottom three buttons, which align with the three tracks on the highway display. In Medium and Hard, however, the upper three buttons come into play, forcing sometimes complex finger movements and combinations. It’s pretty challenging. The first track I play is Fallout Boy’s My Songs Know What You Did in the Dark, an anthem filled with power chords and rhythmic drum-like stabs. It’s hard to keep up with the constant changes in pace, and to begin with, the guitar noise is a constant wailing dirge of mangled chords, but gradually it clicks into place.What helps enormously is the new presentation. The game effectively has two modes: Live, which mimics a real-life live performance, and Guitar Hero TV, which lets you play along with the game’s network of 24-hour music video channels.For the Live option, Freestyle Games has painstakingly filmed real band members performing every song in front of a genuine audience. The player is there on stage, too, experiencing the whole thing through a first-person camera perspective. Again, it’s all about simulating the rock star experience, fulfilling the fantasy. “Seeing and performing music live, which is a totally different experience - it’s a non-produced experience, it sounds different depending on where you are in the audience, or whether it’s the first gig of the tour or the last one. And every crowd adds its own atmosphere. We’re all festival fans at Freestyle and we have a lot of musicians here – we’ve experienced what it feels like to perform.“I’ve also been fortunate enough to have stood at the side of stages and watched big names go out. When you attend a live gig, you see them on stage and you think they look so fucking cool, but you didn’t see them at the side, going through that human process, throwing up in a bucket, combatting stage fright. Stage fright became a key theme internally, we wanted to give that feeling to our players. To do that, we had to make it first person, we have to have them looking out at a crowd, whether that’s 100 people or 100,000.”Cleverly, each song has a backstage build up; you walk through the winding corridors, passing groupies and stage technicians, you watch as your bandmates psyche each other up, then you leap onto the stage and begin. But the ingenious part is that Freestyle has adopted a Hollywood camera system to allow both the audience and the other band members to react in real-time to your performance. Play well, and the audience sings along, cheers and holds adoring signs aloft; play badly and your drummer glares at you accusingly and the audience boos.“We used these big robot cameras called mo-con rigs,” explains Jackson. “We’d watched this documentary on how they made some of the scenes in The Hobbit – they built a life-size hobbit hole and then a child-sized one and they put them side by side on a sound stage; and they used these two robots cameras that make exactly the same movements – they’re based on the robot arms that build cars. These things filmed side by side, they had all the hobbits in one set and Ian Mckellen in the smaller one, so he’s all scrunched up; and then they shot simultaneously. The frame is exactly the same, so it looks like McKellen is in the room with these tiny hobbits. When we saw this, we knew it could work for us.”So Guitar Hero Live uses the same principle: the band and crowd are filmed several times by a large robot camera rig fitted onto a track, each time expressing a different set of emotions – but because the camera shots are all identical, the game is able to switch between emotions on the fly. “The band had to rehearse carefully, making sure they knew the moves,” says Jackson. “The mo-con rig weighs a ton, so if it had hit anyone it would have done serious damage; they had to be perfect. We actually managed to film it without killing anyone.”The whole thing was filmed on a large sound stage in Oxford. The team brought in around 200-400 extras a day for the crowd, mostly employed from casting agencies, though on the days they needed a goth crowd, they’d go into Camden and recruit directly on the street. “For the band, we had a call-up for individuals musicians and auditioned them,” says Jackson. “Then we did callbacks and built bands up ourselves, they all mimed to the songs – it was a bit Simon Cowell.”Every song included on the disc, and there are hundreds, had its own dedicated filmed performance, with the musicians miming to that track. The player will be on stage with a variety of different groups in their career, as well as progressing from flea-pit dive bars to major festivals. It’s not clear yet whether there will be any licensed real-world venues, although there were pretty strong hints in my demo that a 120,000-capacity festival in the game was modelled on Glastonbury.The second way to play Guitar Hero Live is through its GHTV music network, a selection of themed channels where you jump in, watch videos and play along – alone or in multiplayer.Photograph: ActivisionThe other way to play Guitar Hero Live, away from the gig locations will be Guitar Hero TV, the in-game music video service. Players will have access to a programme guide which lists a variety of themed music video shows: you pick one, and whatever’s playing at the time, you join in on. “The idea is if you hit this button anywhere in the game you’ll go straight to it,” says Jackson. “It’s a 24-hours-a-day, seven-days-a-week music network. Whenever you jump in, it’ll take you to the channel you were in previously and, just like TV, when you come in you’ll be put into the show currently playing.“It’s also a massively multiplayer element. You’ll be able to compete against people online or against your friends on highscore challenges. If you don’t like that programme, you can hit the button, bring up the guide and choose something else. There will be genre type shows, top tens, ‘most played’ shows … It’s going to be very broad. Then, if you still want to play something different, you can come out into our songs section and play any of the tracks currently on there, on demand.”The thinking behind this new way to play the game is obvious. Freestyle has looked at the way people consume television and music these days – not through terrestrial regimes, not through specific boxed purchases, but through digital services such as Netflix and Spotify. “GHTV is totally about discovery,” says Jackson. “You’ll be able to go there and find something new. But we want classic stuff on there too. We’ll continue to update it without you having to go and buy another disc. When you buy Guitar Hero, you get the guitar, the tracklist and you get GHTV. We’ll continually put new stuff on there. At E3 we’ll be able to talk about how much and how often. We’re working with major labels, we’re working with some great indie labels, we want to make sure we’re able to give you a broad range of music.”In an era of paid-for downloadable content, getting so many tracks for free sounds suspiciously generous. But later, Jackson refers to Guitar Hero Live as a platform, and there are elements in the user-interface that suggest some sort of monetisation potential. That may well be premium channels on GHTV, or extra downloadable music tracks for the live mode. What Activision promises, however, is that you won’t be buying new discs or instruments. “For us, the intention is, this is the guitar you’re going to need for the rest of Guitar Hero,” says Jackson. “We want you to buy the disc this year, and our current plan is not to try to sell you a disc next year. We want to stay relevant through GHTV.”More details are set to be revealed at the giant E3 video game event in June. There must be specific features to support YouTube and video streaming – a major gaming culture that has arisen since 2010. The big question, though, is whether Activision can once again build a mass audience around this very familiar format. The updates are interesting but this is still, fundamentally, the rhythm action experience we know and played to death: a highway of notes travelling into the screen, and a novelty peripheral to tick them off with.But that was five years ago – lifetime in the games industry. And Activision isn’t the only publisher sensing that this is a good time to reform: Electronic Arts has announced an autumn release for the fourth title in its multi-instrumental series Rock Band. Interestingly, it looks like that title will support the old controllers and possibly song collections, making for a cheaper transition for fans.But then Freestyle Games says this is the only Guitar Hero controller you’ll need – which indicates that there will be no surprise revelations about extra instruments. “This one, for us, is all about guitars,” says Jackson. “Right now, that’s it. But I don’t know what the future holds.”
Sorry I’m late – I’m in India!
American self-balancing transport firm Segway has been bought by a Chinese robotics startup backed by Xiaomi.Beijing-headquartered Ninebot, maker of similar personal transport devices, will maintain Segway as a subsidiary, but will integrate its technology into future products focused on internet-connected electric vehicles with advanced human-machine interfaces.“The alliance of our well-known brands will provide more convenient and environmentally friendly travelling solutions for customers,” said Gao Lufeng, Ninebot founder and chief executive, in a statement.The two-year-old robotics company started out as a crowdfunded project, but now ships products to 38 countries and has manufacturing facilities in China.It sells a self-balancing single-wheel vehicle costing $850 (£577) in the US that can travel up to 35km at up to 22km per hour, and can be tracked and controlled via smartphone, as well as traditional Segway-like scooters.The Ninebot One self-balancing wheel.Photograph: NinebotSegway accused Ninebot of patent infringement six months ago, after a raft of Chinese competitors to the Segway scooters hit the market, and sought to block the import of rival products into the US.The Segway acquisition follows an $80m funding round involving Xiaomi, Sequoia Capital, Shunwei Foundation and West Summit Capital.Ninebot is one of 27 startups backed by Xiaomi, one of the world’slargest smartphone manufacturers, dubbed “China’s Apple”. The company recentlyexpanded into the USandEU, selling smartphone accessories, headphones and fitness devices, but has yet to launch a range of smartphones outside of China and a few select developing nations.Xiaomi’s chief executive and founder, Lei Jun, recently described the company as an internet of things firm, saying that his vision is to go beyond smartphones and into an internet-connected product ecosystem.The company recently launched media streaming boxes and a series of smart home products for automating tasks. Jun’s plan is to complement Xiaomi’s own products with those from investments in startups, which have produced various home appliances such as air purifiers.Jun said that Xiaomi, itself the world’s most valuable startup with a valuation of $46bn, would plough money into up to 100 new startups in the near future.•Xiaomi: It’s China’s Apple, though you’ve probably never heard of it
Hackers on commercial flights could now bring down the plane they are on by using the on board Wi-Fi, a US government watchdog has warned.The USGovernment Accountability Office(GAO) does not suggest it would be easy to do but it points out that as airlines and the Federal Aviation Administration attempt to modernise planes and flight tracking with internet-based technology, attackers have a new vulnerability they could exploit.The GAO says: “Modern aircraft are increasingly connected to the internet. This interconnectedness can potentially provide unauthorized remote access to aircraft avionics systems.”The report highlights the fact that cockpit electronics are indirectly connected to the passenger cabin through shared IP networks. The connection between passenger-accessible systems and the avionics of the plane is heavily moderated by firewalls, but information security experts have pointed out that firewalls, like all software, can never be assumed to be totally infallible.“Four cybersecurity experts with whom we spoke discussed firewall vulnerabilities, and all four said that because firewalls are software components, they could be hacked like any other software and circumvented,” explains the office.“According to cybersecurity experts we interviewed, internet connectivity in the cabin should be considered a direct link between the aircraft and the outside world, which includes potential malicious actors,” the report adds.The Federal Aviation Administration does not currently verify the cybersecurity of a new airliner before certifying it for scope, although it “currently issues rules with limited scope, called Special Conditions, to aircraft manufacturers when aircraft employ new technologies where IP interconnectivity could present cybersecurity risks”.The report praises the FAA for the steps it has taken to get its cybersecurity policies in order, but says that “opportunity exists for further action”, and particularly highlights as a cause for concern the fact that cybersecurity responsibility is split over multiple FAA offices.A worst case scenario is that a terrorist with a laptop would sit among the passengers and take control of the airplane using its passenger Wi-Fi, said Rep. Peter DeFazio, an Oregon Democrat on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee who requested the investigation.“That’s a serious vulnerability, and FAA should work quickly” to fix the problem, DeFazio said.The GAO released a separate report last March that determined the FAA’s system for guiding planes and other aircraft also was at “increased and unnecessary risk” of being hacked.One area of weakness is the ability to prevent and detect unauthorised access to the vast network of computer and communications systems the FAA uses to process and track flights around the world, the report said. The FAA relies on more than 100 of these air traffic systems to direct planes.In January 2015, the GAO praised the FAA for taking steps to protect air-traffic controllers, but warned that “significant security control weaknesses remain that threaten the [FAA’s] ability to ensure the safe and uninterrupted operation of the national airspace system”.
There is much more to BuzzFeed than shareable listicles and quizzes, according to Ze Frank, president of the digital media company’s BuzzFeed Motion Pictures division.“We make lots of content: we’ve made over 3,000 videos in the last two years, we make over 50 a week right now and we do a billion views a month,” said Frank in a keynote interview at the MIPTV conference in Cannes.“The reality is that when you’re in a time that is dominated by social distribution, the stuff that spreads to you is the stuff that you’re going to define the brand by. If your friends are sharing a lot of silly stuff with you that’s how you’re going to think of BuzzFeed’s content.”Frank’s job is to produce a broader range of content for the company’s fast-growing video business, including longer-form formats for TV and cinema as well as short-form clips for the web.BuzzFeed’s strategy will be to use the latter to test new characters and ideas with a large online audience, in order to judge which are most suitable for extending to TV or film-length projects.“We can do shorts to test casting: can they handle dialogue, can they handle arguments? And our scripting lab is constantly thinking about that in a character-first way, in terms of developing this stuff,” said Frank.“The way short-form content can move in such a frictionless way around the web, that’s a fantastic way to build affinity with shows and characters. And that affinity will translate over to larger stuff.”BuzzFeed is keeping an open mind about how and where to distribute its longer projects, including whether to charge for them.“There are three things that can come back: one is money, one is data and one is strategic relationships. And ideally we want all three,” he said.“We have a lot of flexibility in testing out the future of distribution itself. Everything is on the table from the idea of free to the idea of windowed exclusive to giving it to the box office and letting them keep 100% of receipts, and treating it as marketing.”BuzzFeed may be a new media company, but it is tapping some traditional-media expertise in the form of veteran film producer Michael Shamberg, whose past projects have included Pulp Fiction and Garden State. Shamberg is acting as an advisor to BuzzFeed Motion Pictures, and joined Frank on-stage at MIPTV.“There’s no R&amp;D system in Hollywood: no studio makes a movie to see if they want to make a better movie,” said Shamberg. “The studios don’t have the capacity to innovate at all, because the amount of capital is so large, and they move so slowly … BuzzFeed is a big R&amp;D lab.”Related:TV industry faces its ‘ketchup’ moment: ‘Mobile is now the first screen’Shamberg is confident that the young internet users who watch BuzzFeed’s shorter clips will also be interested in longer shows and films from the company.“Everyone’s watching long-form: it’s called Netflix, it’s called Hulu. Long-form narrative is already part of the DNA of the digital experience,” he said.“Look at what Netflix did with House of Cards, which essentially branded Netflix … We’re going to migrate from what BuzzFeed does to the system that’s already there. We just need to bring something fresh to it.”
Microsoft’s first piece of wearable technology since the Spot smartwatch is a fitness tracker packed with 10 sensors, but does it put others to shame?The company best known for Windows, Office, and PC/tablet hybrids such as the Surface, is no stranger to health and fitness. Microsoft’s HealthVault – a service for storing and maintaining health and fitness data – has been around since 2007, storing data from fitness trackers and medical devices alike and now underpins the new Health app.Fitness band or ankle bracelet?The colour and wallpaper of the touchscreen are customisable.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Microsoft Band is a bit like marmite. Some will love its almost industrial design, others will think it looks like a house-arrest ankle bracelet. It’s as chunky as a Nike Fuel Band, but fits under a shirt cuff without issue.Unlike most wearable technology it is only available in black, in three sizes, and offers little in customisation – the colour and wallpaper of the touchscreen can be changed but that’s about it.The Band is resizable, with an excellent sliding clasp that’s very easy to adjust on the fly. You can tighten the band when exercising, to stop it moving, and then loosen it again for going about the day, which is great.The clasp slides along a groove in the back for easy adjustment.Photograph: Hannah Jane Parkinson for the GuardianThe Band is wrist and side agnostic and works any which way people want to wear it. The screen and the clasp form two points of contact, with gaps on the sides of the wrist. I found this very comfortable, preventing my wrist from sweating while stopping it from moving around and keeping the sensors in place.The screen can be used as a watch, can perform simple smartwatch duties such as displaying notifications, reading emails and reply to texts with pre-defined answers. It’s navigated by simple swipes between small square tiles, with a very simple, easy-to-use interface that doesn’t try to do too much.Two buttons on the side turn on the band and start an action, while Windows Phone users can also hold the action button to invoke Microsoft’s voice assistant, Cortana. A tiny keyboard and voice dictation is also available to Windows Phone users, but everything else is cross-platform and works with both Android and iPhone.Sadly the Band is only splash resistant. Swimming, having a shower or generally getting it wet beyond the washing of hands is not advisable.Run, sun, burn and sleepSleep tracking analysis using the Health app.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Microsoft Band packs more sensors than most smartwatches. A constant optical heart rate monitor sits under the clasp, an accelerometer and gyroscope track steps and a GPS measures distance without the need for a phone – which all help monitor workouts and runs.There is even a UV monitor to track exposure to the sun, while galvanic skin sensors track sweat and apparently “stress”, and a skin temperature sensor can monitor how hot the wearer is. Not all the sensors are active all the time. The GPS fires up when you tell the Band that you are tracking a run, but is otherwise dormant.I found the Microsoft Band one of most accurate trackers I have tested. The GPS got a fix quickly when going for a run, the step count was more accurate than most and the heart rate monitoring matched readings taken by other devices, and was consistent.The Band also tracked non-running exercise better than most other fitness trackers I’ve tried. Its built-in workout guide is excellent. Users can pick from a long list of different workouts and schedules from Microsoft and a range of brands, including Golds Gym, Men’s Fitness, Shape and others.Select the workout tile, hit go and follow the vibrations.Photograph: Hannah Jane Parkinson for the GuardianThe plans can guide you through interval training, vibrating to tell you when to start, stop or rest and counting the reps as you do them. It’s a great system for those that know what they’re doing and don’t need a phone with them. For those that don’t, the smartphone app has video guides on how to do certain exercises.The majority of the workouts also come with a schedule – one day running, another doing core exercises, another weights – which work well if you’re starting from scratch. Some have clearly defined objectives, such as training for a half-marathon in eight weeks. I can’t vouch for their effectiveness, but they seem like a great idea.Sleep tracking is solid, but not automated and could provide a lot more insight. Users have to manually activate sleep tracking at night. Given other less-equipped fitness trackers can automatically activate sleep tracking, this is an unnecessary chore.The data produced by the Band during sleep is interesting. I could tell, for instance, that I had a nightmare in the middle of the night because my heart rate spiked and I woke up. I could also tell I was thrashing around as my calorie burn during the night peaked at one stage.Microsoft reports awake, light and restful sleep, but not sleep stages within the cycle. Heart rate can be used to infer deep, light and REM sleep, for instance, but Health doesn’t do that at this stage. The merits of this type of tracking are debated by sleep experts, but it would be nice to at least be able to see it.There’s no reason Microsoft couldn’t activate this at a later stage, of course, because all the data necessary is recorded.Three-day batteryThe charger clips into place with magnets and plugs into any USB power adapter or computer.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianI regularly got three days battery life without activating the GPS, but with constant heart rate monitoring. Going for a couple of runs with the GPS active reduced the battery life to two days. The Band charges in just under two hours using a small magnetic USB cable – another dongle to lose, but at least it works well.Microsoft HealthThe Band syncs to Microsoft’s Health app and promises insights built on analysis of data, pulled from not only the Band, but also from other fitness trackers and services, including Jawbone’s UP.Fitness trackers live and die by the quality of their apps. The Health app, available for iPhone, Android and Windows Phone, is a solid entry while it’s web app is even better.It can show you charts, overlay one metric on another, match activity with workouts and runs and makes it all really easy to interpret even for a fitness-tracking novice.A nightmare at just after 3am caused a spike in heart rate and woke me up.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianI now know, for instance, that I have a resting heart rate of about 49 beats per minute, that I burn almost as many calories when sleeping as I do while sitting at my desk, and that on average it takes me 10 minutes and 50 seconds to fall asleep.Most of these observations are manually found by poking through the data and graphs, but it’s easy to do and the interface encourages a voyage of self-exploration making it one of the best available.In fact, I can see it getting better and better as more data is pulled in and analysed, meaning that even those without a Microsoft Band but using a third-party tracker that can link with Microsoft Health might consider using it.PriceThe Microsoft Band costs £170, which makes it one of the more expensive fitness trackers available, but £29 cheaper than theFitbit Surgeand significantly cheaper than most other fitness trackers with GPS built-in.VerdictThe Microsoft Band was a surprise. I wasn’t expecting to like it quite as much as I do. I find it comfortable, it lasts just long enough to not be annoying and simply works without too much fussing.The smartwatch functions can be taken or left, it’s not fantastic as a watch but does the job better than some others, and it’s not pretty. But the sheer number of sensors, and the solid cross-platform app, make it a pleasure to use.I wish it gave me more data and insight, but Microsoft is clearly working on it. Since its launch the company has added user-requested features such as a bike tracking mode and the web app.The Microsoft Band is a solid fitness tracker now with so much potential for more.The collection of tiles includes a Starbucks app that puts a barcode on your wrist for instant payments.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPros:three-day battery life, constant heart rate, GPS and loads of other sensors, cross-platform, good appCons:a bit chunky, styling is polarising, Cortana only available with Windows Phone, not all the data collected is currently availableOther reviews•Fitbit Surge review: a fitness tracking watch that’s not quite super•Fitbit Charge HR review: a heart-rate tracker that’s skipped a beat•Best fitness trackers to help get fitter in 2015
The weather hasn’t made up its mind. One day it’s hot and sunny, the next windy and rainy. Welcome to April in the UK. Dyson reckons its new fan, which blows both hot and cold, is the answer – with an eye-watering price tag to match.The new Dyson AM09 is the company’s latest in its series of bladeless fans – a heater and fan combined into an oblong loop. It’s the third version of Dyson’s “Hot + Cool” fans – the first two, the AM04 and AM05,were subject to a recall last yearfor a fire risk found in models manufactured before April 2014.Since then the heating fan system has been refined, quietened and made more effective at heating a room.Clippy reincarnatedThe remote controls all the functions of the fan – the temperature and fan speed is displayed on a hidden panel next to the power button.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe small fan stands about the height of a small radiator, on a swivelling and tilting base that holds the turbine-like system that draws in air and propels it to a big paperclip-shaped ring sitting on top of it.Like the more basicring-shaped AM06 fan, the paperclip directs the air forward with force, sucking air through the back of the loop as it does so, amplifying the airflow. Aturbofan jet engineworks in much the same way, and hence why Dyson calls the technology the “Air Multiplier”, first launched in 2009.But the AM09 has a new trick up its sleeve – theCoandă effect, which bends the airflow around the edge of the loop and out at an angle.A second aperture in the loop combines with the first to broaden the angle of airflow, firing it out from the loop at around 45-degrees, which projects into the room and circulates the air more efficiently.The direct approach is good for heating or cooling one spot, but leads to an uneven heating, something the older Hot + Cool fans suffered from – they cooled or heated one person very effectively but multiple people in a room not quite so much.The new system is much more effective at heating an entire room, but comes at the cost of noise.Blow hardThe remote magnetically attaches to the top of the fan when not in use.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe AM09 has streamlined airflow within the machine, which makes it quieter than previous models and like the theAM06, was awarded aQuiet Mark by the Noise Abatement Society.In use without the heater on and the fan in direct mode it is quiet and effective. It has 10 levels of power, anything up to level five is quiet and doesn’t drown out the television. Turning it up to 10, the fan sounds like a jet engine, and while it’s not loud enough to be heard outside the room, makes it difficult to hear dialogue at an acceptable volume from the television.Turning on the heater and the wide-angle airflow kicks the fan into gear that starts at about the same noise as level five of the direct fan. That means it can be difficult to hear the TV.The noise doesn’t carry very far, meaning moving the fan away from you and away from the TV helps, but it’s certainly not silent.What it makes in noise it makes up for in heating the room. It is the most effective heater I have ever come across, raising the temperature from chilly to cosy in a matter of minutes.The small remote sets the temperature in degrees Celsius, the fan does the rest. Once the room is up to temperature the fan shuts off. At peak it’ll draw 2,000 Watts of power when heating at maximum (about 30p per hour), which is similar to competitors, while a timer allows users to leave it running for a set time.The AM09 will never replace central heating, but warming up one room on a cold day or night takes only a couple of minutes.Air is drawn into the turbine-like system at the bottom through vents in the side, while the heating element is capped to 200 degrees C, which is meant to stop burning smells from dust and detritus.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPriceThe Dyson AM09 costs £400, which is more than 10 times the price of similar oscillating fan heaters, and £150 more than Dyson’s cool-only fan.VerdictThe Dyson AM09 is arguably the best small heater fan available. It heats the room very quickly, is easy to use with the remote, has direct and air circulating modes and is as effective as a cooling fan can be considering it’s just blowing air.But at £400 it is also the most expensive, and by a factor of 10 over some of its rivals. For that money you get a heater that’s attractive, relatively quiet, safe without blades and won’t emit a burning smell.Whether that is worth the extra £360 will depend on how much you care about a heater.Pros:heats a room quickly, powerful small fan, easy to use remote, exact temperature controlCons:expensive, noisy enough to drown out a TV at full blast, can only push warm air around
The European Union accused Google on Wednesday of cheating competitors by distorting Internet search results in favour of its Google Shopping service and also launched an antitrust probe into its Android mobile operating system.In a statement, Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager said the US tech giant, which dominates Internet search engines globally, had been sent a Statement of Objections - effectively a charge sheet - to which it can respond.“I am concerned that the company has given an unfair advantage to its own comparison shopping service, in breach of EU antitrust rules,” she said. “If the investigation confirmed our concerns, Google would have to face the legal consequences and change the way it does business in Europe.”Both Vestager and her predecessor, Joaquín Almunia, have been under pressure from European and US tech concerns to investigate Google’s activities on the continent, where competitors – including Microsoft – say Google has abused its 90% market share by using its products, particularly search, to illegally promote its other products and services. Google-made products like Google+ and the company’s e-commerce sites are placed higher in search, detractors say, whether or not they are the superior option, and users are not aware they’re seeing what amounts to advertising.At issue are multiple charges, among them the problem of interoperability – the capacity of programs and web pages created by competing companies to play nicely together, which can be undermined and subverted in ways that aren’t immediately obvious to the user. The antitrust agreement Almunia was brokering with the company last year wasroundly criticizedby other companies in the market.Mathias Döpfner, CEO of German media company Axel Springer SE, wrote an open letter to Google chief executive Eric Schmidt a year ago in Frankfurter Allgemeine. “The statement ‘If you don’t like Google, you can remove yourself from their listings and go elsewhere,’” hewrote, “is about as realistic as recommending to an opponent of nuclear power that he just stop using electricity.”Prasad Krishnamurthy, assistant professor of law at Berkeley Law, said the EC’s powers in this case are substantial and the punishments it could levy potentially catastrophic for Google.“One power they have that makes them different from the [US] Federal Trade Commission or even the Department of Justice is that they can collect fines to the tune of tens of millions of dollars,” he said. Indeed, the Brussels-based authority fined computer chip-maker Intel €1.06bn in 2009 and upheld the fine on appeal last year.There is a long history of international tech corporations encouraging the EC to punish competitors going back to (among others) Microsoft itself, after a complaint by Sun Microsystems, which accused Microsoft of abusing its majority share in a way not dissimilar from the charges expected to be filed against Google. Microsoft ended up paying €497m.But, Krishnamurthy said, a fine is not the worst thing the EC can do, as far as Google is concerned. “The other power that the EC has is that they can put into place equitable remedies, conduct remedies, that would substantially hamper Google’s business practices. In some sense, they might be more worried about that than otherwise – to the extent that this messes with the search businesses, which offers advertisers revenue, it will affect their business model substantially.”Google can talk to the European commission and bargain, of course, but they might want more than a fine and a promise not to do it again. “If they think that Google’s practices are anticompetitive and they feel strongly about a conduct remedy that goes to the heart of Google’s advertising model, [Google] won’t be able to settle and they’ll have to litigate.”Google did not respond to multiple requests for comment.
Two major lobbying groups are hitting back hard at new net neutrality rules meant to protect an open internet, both headed by former commissioners for the regulator that passed the rules.The Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association (CTIA), a wireless industry lobbying group run by former Federal Communications Commission commissioner Meredith Attwell Baker, on Tuesday filed a lawsuit against the FCC seeking to overturn the regulator’s landmark net neutrality rules on the grounds that “the FCC usurped the role of Congress” in creating them.The suit joins a similar filing from the National Cable &amp; Telecommunications Assocation (NCTA), run by Michael Powell, formerly the chairman of the FCC under GeorgeW Bush. When the rules were passed, Powell observed that consumers will immediately “bear the burden of new taxes and increased costs” as a result of member organizations passing on any costs associated with net neutrality to consumers. The NCTA is bringing in heavy hitters, as well: its suit will be handled by former US solicitor general Theodore Olson and former assistant to the US solitictor general Miguel Estrada.A smaller group, the American Cable Association, also filed suit Tuesday. The new lawsuits join yesterday’s filing by another lobbyist, USTelecom.The board of CTIA is composed of executives from companies including Verizon, Microsoft, Samsung, Motorola, AT&amp;T, Sprint, T-Mobile and US Cellular. The board of the NCTA, which is run by Michael Powell, himself a former chair of the FCC, includes execs from Comcast, Cox, Charter, Time Warner Cable, Cablevision and Disney.Baker, in particular, has ties to the lobbying community and the government that run deep, especially around direct regulatory action: in 2011, she left the FCC to work as senior vice-president of government affairs for Comcast, barely four months after the regulator had approved that company’s purchase of a majority stake in entertainment conglomerate NBCUniversal. Baker, an Obama appointee who served less than two years on the commission, was a strong voice in favor of the merger’s approval.Writing on the CTIA blog, Baker wrote that she was “confident that the courts will reject the FCC’s overreach for the third time, particularly with respect to mobile broadband services.” The “third time” to which Baker referred counts previous rulings against the FCC, notablythis same court’s rulinglast year that cable networks couldn’t be classified “common carriers”, a crucial aspect of the law.The language of the CTIA suit seems to agree that “carefully-tailored rules to protect internet openness will allow investment and innovation to continue to flourish”. Its further contention, however, is that the rules privately determined to be most beneficial to the consumer by its members are the only rules necessary, pointing out that the trade association’s standards are “[i]nformed by the views of nearly 4 million commenters, our staff-led roundtables, numerous ex parte presentations, [and] meetings with individual Commissioners and staff”.The FCC’s net neutrality ruling, while popular with consumers and video producers like Netflix, is controversial and, some analysts say, on dubious legal grounds until thoroughly tested by lawsuits just like this one.“Net neutrality can’t stand legally,” said Rich Greenfield of BTIG. “There are going to be heavily contested battles, and even if [it does, the rules] don’t get into the question of so-called ‘managed’ services.”Either way, Greenfield says, with respect to the way carriers privilege – or don’t – certain kinds of content, “there are concerns that companies like Netflix and Dish and many others still have”, even if net neutrality passes muster with the courts.
Guitar Hero, the multimillion-selling music game series that brought air guitar into the digital age, is back – and this time it’s aiming for the Spotify-listening Coachella crowd.Guitar Hero Live, announced on Tuesday, is the first big revamp in five years of the phenomenally popular game. Publisher Activision said the new game took account of the rise of digital music and growth of music festivals that has taken place in the interim.“Guitar Hero created this whole music game phenomenon; it’s one of the first titles to really transcend video games as a category,” said Tyler Michaud, senior director of product management at Activision. “However, our last release was in 2010 – just think about all that’s changed in that time. We’ve had a new console cycle and people are much more connected now.“Music has changed a lot too. In 2010, I was walking around with an MP3 player in my pocket, which held a lot of music, but it was still a contained selection. Now if you want a particular track you just get it – from the cloud, from digital services, form wherever. The festival scene has blown up too, the sheer numbers of people who are going out and experiencing music – the breadth of the bands playing at big events. It has really widened now and we’re reflecting that. This is the reinvention of Guitar Hero.”Guitar Hero Live will use a brand new controller with a refreshed interface, designed to more closely resemble real guitar playing. The game will ship with a wide array of licensed tracks, and will also allow players to access extra songs – and to indulge in online multiplayer competitions – through a new Guitar Hero TV service, billed by publisher Activision as “the world’s first playable live music video network”.Developed by UK-based studio Freestyle Games, previously responsible for the DJ Hero series, the game will also abandon the visuals of previous titles, which showed cartoon-like performers on stage. The new game instead adopts a first-person view from a guitarist’s onstage perspective, and players will see real-life video footage of the other band members and the crowd. Freestyle has used an innovative digital video technology, previously employed by film-makers like James Cameron, to allow crowd members to display apparently real-time reactions to the players’ performance.Developer Freestyle Games has used a twin-camera system to allow dynamic changes to audience reactions. Fluff a few notes and they start getting restlessPhotograph: ActivisionInstead of a series of five-coloured buttons on the fret board of the guitar controller, which previous titles used, the new version has six buttons arranged into two rows of three. “The new configuration came from the desire to give the fret hand something to do that’s closer to what a real guitarist does,” said Freestyle founder and creative director Jamie Jackson. “With two rows of buttons, the player’s fingers are now making chord shapes. The challenge is to get your fingers into the correct position rather than just running them up and down the neck as fast as you can.”The controller does, however, retain the familiar strum bar to play notes and a whammy bar to add effects.Midway through the presentation at Times Square’s Best Buy Theater, Pete Wentz from Fall Out Boy took the stage next to Freestyle’s Jackson to play My Songs Know What You Did in the Dark, a song Wentz wrote.Jackson showed him the ropes: “If you screw it up, the drummer gets really pissed,” said Jackson.“Just like in real life,” Wentz replied.Wentz played a 90-odd-note streak and then missed a button. “My own song!” he moaned.For the multiplayer component, Jackson brought up Gerard Way to play Na Na Na, by Way’s band My Chemical Romance. “People who are good at playing guitar generally suck at Guitar Hero,” Activision CEO Eric Hirshberg warned. (Way, who said he’d been practicing, won.)Activision has not specified how many tracks will be available from launch, although the press release says “hundreds”. Freestyle is aiming for a diverse selection of genres, moving away from rock staples to encompass indie, punk and even EDM. The Black Keys, Fall Out Boy, Green Day, Ed Sheeran, The War on Drugs, The Killers and Skrillex are among the first artists to be supported.With the Guitar Hero TV mode, players will have access to a range of constantly updated digital channels each dedicated to a different genre of music. Designed to resemble both music video channels and digital distribution services like Spotify, players simply surf the channels, find a tune they like and start playing along while the music video plays. They can compete against other guitarists, either via local multiplayers with friends in the same room or online connection.It is not clear yet whether extra tracks or some form of premium GH TV subscription will be available at an extra cost.First launched in 2005, Guitar Hero was originally developed by music game specialist Harmonix. Activision bought the brand in 2006, and Harmonix went on to create the rival Rock Band series for Electronic Arts. The Guitar Hero series continued to sell well, however, selling more than 30m units worldwide. After the release of Guitar Heroes: Warriors of Rock in 2010, sales were falling due to a saturation of competing games, as well as an onslaught of music add-on packs and DLC offerings.Hirshberg began the presentation by addressing the age of the franchise, noting that the five years since the most recent Guitar Hero had seen a major transition to a new generation of consoles, along with other changes. “Most of the ways we listen to music today, like streaming services, were barely a blip on the radar,” Hirshberg said.But he was adamant that the series has stayed popular. “We have 10 million Facebook fans,” he said. “You know that little music festival going on right now, Coachella? They have 2 million Facebook fans. Guitar Hero has five times that and we haven’t had a game in five years.”The executive enthused about the changes made in the new game, especially the incorporation of live actors and video. The question Activision wanted to answer, according to Hirshberg, was: “Could a Guitar Hero game actually give you stage fright?” – a fear, he said, that was for some people stronger than the fear of death.The crowd size will depend on the player’s progress through the game. You start playing to small crowds in intimate venues before movie toward packed stadiumsPhotograph: ActivisionGuitar Hero Live is set to launch on PlayStation 3, PS4, Xbox 360, Xbox One and Wii U. There will also be smartphone and tablet versions, which can utilise the same guitar controllers. Activision has said that it will provide more details on those versions at a later date.In March, Electronic Arts revealed that Harmonix is working on Rock Band 4, which is also set to launch this autumn. Five years after the music genre looked to have retired, the battle of the bands continues.
Mobile malware may be widespread, but it’s unlikely to be the source of disastrous data breaches such as the Sony hack any time soon,according to international telecoms firm Verizon.“We feel safe saying that while a major carrier is looking for and monitoring the security of mobile devices on its network, data breaches involving mobile devices should not be in any top-whatever list,” the company writes.“This report is filled with thousands of stories of data loss – as it has been for years – and rarely do those stories include a smartphone,” it says. “Mobile devices are not a preferred vector in data breaches.”Instead, mobile malware is largely characterised by “adnoyance” software: programmes that ignore user preferences to force adverts where they aren’t desired, but pose little serious security threat. Indeed, the company estimates that just 0.03% of mobile devices are infected with “higher grade” malicious code each week, from a sample size of tens of millions of devices.Even when devices do get infected, the infections are overwhelmingly short-lived. “Even though we looked at data just over a six-month period, 95% of the malware types showed up for less than a month, while four out of five didn’t last beyond a week,” the report says.But rather than talking in generalities about “mobile” malware, Verizon makes clear that there’s only really one platform which experiences malware: Android.“Android wins. (In that it’s the most vulnerable platform; kinda like winning a free tax audit.)“Not just wins, but Android wins so hard that most of the suspicious activity logged from iOS devices was just failed Android exploits. So while we’d love to compare and contrast iOS to Android, the data is forcibly limiting the discussion to the latter.”Cheap breachesEven non-mobile breaches could be less serious than previously thought, however – provided they’re big. The report finds that the average cost-per-record of a data breach is just $0.58 (£0.39) – far, far below previous estimates, which hovered around $200.Both figures come from dividing estimates for total monetary cost of breaches with estimates for the number of records lost; but the difference lies in the high end of the scale. The $200 figure ignores breaches that lost more than 100,000 records, while Verizon’s $0.58 figure includes them. For massive breaches, when hundreds of millions of records are lost, “the cost per record can drop down to just a penny or two”.Above a certain size, costs start to stabilise, even as the number of records lost increases. But, Verizon warns, that can mean that taking a single average figure for the cost-per-record of a data breach is misleading. “NetDiligence [one of the report’s contributors] captured our sentiments about such an approach perfectly when it said, ‘Insurers should not feel comfortable estimating potential losses using any standard cost-per-record figure,’ and we couldn’t agree more.“Larger organizations have higher losses per breach, but they typically lose more records and have higher overall costs.”
There will be no raid in the House of Wolves, the second expansion pack for Bungie’s massively-multiplayer first person shooter Destiny, the developer has confirmed.Instead, high-level players will be treated to a three-player co-operative experience “focused on variety, replayability, and skill – a new battle arena called The Prison of Elders,”Bungie says.The arena will be for three players, rather than the six who are required to play one of Destiny’s two raids, and is paired with a new competitive multiplayer mode called Trials of Osiris. Both will be available to play upon the release of the second expansion pack on 19 May.Destiny, which fuses the FPS mechanics of games such as Bungie’s previous hit Halo with the trappings of a massively multiplayer online game such as World of Warcraft, currently has two raids as end-game content, available to players who have already mastered much of what the game has to offer.The first, the Vault of Glass, was introduced a few weeks after the game debuted, and required a team of six high-level players to independently form a team and defeat the god of the machine lifeforms known as the Vex.It was praised for introducing innovative new mechanics to a game which was, in the words of Guardian reviewer Keith Stuart,a “highly conventional old-school shooter”, but criticised for being largely inaccessible to casual players, requiring a large time commitment to reach the prerequisite level and an equally large commitment to put together a team and take on the challenge.That raid was followed in December with Crota’s End, released as part of the game’s first expansion pack The Dark Below, and players had expected House of Wolves to introduce a third raid.
Dell’s latest ultrabook is squarely aimed at Apple’s MacBook Pro with a better-than-retina high resolution screen and aluminium body – a Windows MacBook killer.Since Dell turned private in 2013 it has rekindled its innovative spirit, first with a super-thin tablet with an edge-to-edge display, now with a laptop that is thin, light and practically bezel-less.The new XPS 13 is a “hero product” that shows what the company can do. I can’t remember the last time I really wanted to test a Dell laptop.Better than retinaThe 13.3in screen is squeezed into the body of an 11in laptop.Photograph: Jack Schofield for the GuardianThe Dell XPS 13 (2015) may look like a traditional aluminium ultrabook, but it really makes an impact when you open it up.The screen looks huge, because the bezels are tiny – a 13.3in “infinity” screen fitted into something the size of an 11in laptop. It is also is very bright and very sharp, with a resolution of 3200 x 1800 pixels and a pixel density of 276 pixels per inch.For comparison a MacBook Pro with a 13.3in retina screen has a resolution of 2560 x 1600 and 227ppi, and Google’s Chromebook Pixel a 12.9in screen with a 2560 x 1700 resolution and 239 ppi, meaning the Dell has both the Apple and Google laptops beat on sharpness.The higher the pixel density the sharper the text, the clearer the details in images and the better the screen looks – it’s the same principle used by smartphones and tablets.Specifications as testedScreen:13.3in Quad HD+ infinity screen, 3200 x 1800 (276 pixels per inch)Processor:2.4GHz Intel Core i7 i7-5500U processorRAM:8GBStorage:256GB SSDConnectivity:Wi-Fi 802.11ac, BT 4.0, USB3.0, mini DisplayPort, SD card readerCamera:720pDimensions:304 x 200 x 15mmWeight:1.26kgReal powerThe aluminium chassis makes the XPS 13 feel sturdy and premium.Photograph: Jack Schofield for the GuardianThe XPS 13 is one of the first new laptops using Intel’s fifth-generation 14nm Core chips, code-named Broadwell. They provide a small increase in performance over current Haswell designs, but should deliver significantly better battery life.The fan-cooled Core i7-5500U is fast for an ultrabook – especially one that measures only 15mm thick – and the extra performance of its HD5500 graphics processor makes it usable for 1080p gaming. It’s quite a step up from the slow performance of the fanless Core-M chip used in the Lenovo Yoga 3 and Apple’s latest MacBook.But small sizes require compromises, and the XPS 13 is no exception. The memory chips are soldered to the motherboard so not upgradable and the battery is sealed in, as it is with quite a few of its competitors.The XPS 13 has two USB 3.0 ports, a mini-DisplayPort for video, an SD card slot, and a 3.5mm headset jack. More connections can be provided via an optional USB dongle. The webcam is positioned in an odd place – underneath the screen on the left-hand side – because there’s no room for it in the thin bezel around the screen. The view from the webcam is therefore, less flattering.Battery lasts about a dayThe battery lasts about a day, but the charger is small and easy to cart around.Photograph: Jack Schofield for the GuardianDell estimates the XPS 13 with the infinity screen will last approximately 11 hours of browsing or eight hours of video playback. With high performance settings and the screen brightness turned up, I got slightly less than that in normal use.With more balanced settings, the XPS13 should get through a normal day’s work. But if you play World of Warcraft on your lunch break, you might not make it.The power adapter is tiny, however, and the machine charges in about two hours. Dell also offers a Power Companion battery that will recharge it, but if battery life is a priority, the lower resolution full HD-screen versions last longer.‘Adaptive brightness’ potentially a plagueThe infinity screen is excellent – arguably one of the best available on a laptop – but there’s a potential problem.The screen has an “adaptive brightness” feature that varies the screen brightness according to content, not just the ambient light. It’s a technology used in high-end smartphones and tablets by Samsung and others, which makes the display look as good as possible.However, the colour and brightness changing technology cannot be turned off and makes it impossible to calibrate the display, which is the first thing a pro photographer or video editor would want to do with this type of machine.Some people think it is very important, and many have complained about it online, but I confess I didn’t really notice it in daily use. Dell ought to provide a way to turn it off, and until it does, it could be a real problem for people in the creative industries.Keyboard and trackpadThe chiclet-style keyboard is good, but not great. I found the backlit keys slightly small, which reflects the fact that the XPS 13’s chassis is closer to an 11.6in than a 13.3in laptop. I would also have preferred a little more travel, but then, I grew up with mechanical typewriters and clicky keyboards.The large Microsoft Precision touchpad is much better than those in most Windows laptops, though still not up to Apple standards. It’s also very sensitive, which takes some getting used to.PriceThe XPS 13 weighs 1.26kg, which makes it relatively portable.Photograph: Jack Schofield for the GuardianThe Dell XPS 13 comes in several different models starting at £799 and rising to £1,249, with faster processors, the quad HD+ screen and more storage.The version tested costs £1,099 with 256GB of storage, 8GB of RAM and a quad HD+ screen.VerdictThe Dell XPS 13’s Quad HD+ screen, thin bezels, good touchpad, solid keyboard, aluminium construction and aggressive pricing make it a strong competitor in the high-end PC market. Not even Apple offers a better-than-retina screen and a Core i7 in something close to the size of an 11in MacBook Air.There are other high-end laptops such as the Lenovo ThinkPad Carbon X1, HP EliteBooks, Asus Zenbooks and similar machines, but if you want a laptop for Windows or Linux, the XPS 13 is probably the best you can get at the moment.The elephant in the room? Dude, you’re getting a Dell. That won’t put off business buyers, who make up the vast majority of Dell’s customers, but it’s probably not going to appeal to the hipsters in Starbucks, who are brand followers not brand leaders.Pros:excellent quad HD+ screen, solid build, powerful, good touchpad, touchscreenCons:battery life could be better, adaptive brightness can’t be turned off, memory not upgradableOther reviews•Surface Pro 3 review: the most lappable tablet yet•Five best laptops to suit any budget
Nokia has confirmed that it is in advanced talks to buy French smartphone and wireless equipment manufacturer Alcatel-Lucent.The Finnish firm confirmed speculation from French financial newspaper Les Echos, which could see Nokia bolster its networking business against Swedish rival Ericsson as well as give it a possible re-entry into the smartphone market.“Nokia and Alcatel-Lucent confirm that they are in advanced discussions with respect to a potential full merger, which would take the form of a public exchange offer by Nokia for Alcatel-Lucent,” saida statement. “There can be no certainty at this stage that these discussions will result in any agreement or transaction.”Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent is a leading supplier of 4G and LTE mobile networks and related services, best known in the UK for its modems and routers and cheap mobile phones.In a joint venture with Chinese manufacturer TCL Communications, the company also manufactured a range of Android and Windows Phone smartphones predicated on low-cost but feature-rich devices, as well as wearable devices and smartphone accessories. Alcatel-Lucent later sold its shares in Alcatel Mobile Phones to TCL.It is possible an acquisition of Alcatel-Lucent could provide both firms with a ground to re-enter the smartphone market.Alcatel-Lucent has offices and research and development centres, which could aid Nokia’s transition back into a mobile company after havingsold its struggling smartphone businessto Microsoft for £4.6bn in September 2013. Since completing the sale last year Nokia has sat on most of the £4.6bn it made from the sale.Nokia rising from the ashesThe Finnish company was the world’s biggest mobile phone maker for more than a decade until it was overtaken by South Korea’s Samsung in 2012.Nokia launched a thin and powerful Android tablet in China last year, made by Apple product manufacturer Foxconn, and is rumoured to be working on at least one Android smartphone. But under the terms of the deal with Microsoft, Nokia is restricted from using the Nokia brand name on smartphones until the last quarter of 2016 and on feature phones for 10 years.Analysts and investors flagged potential opposition from the French government, which has said in the past it sees the communications industry as strategic, and is sensitive about the job cuts that often go with cost-saving takeover deals. The French economy ministry had no immediate comment.Clairinvest fund manager Ion-Marc Valahu also expressed scepticism over the merits of the proposed deal: “They are two of the weaker players in the industry. They could come up with some cost cuts, but just because you combine one weak player with another weak player does not necessarily mean that you will end up with a stronger player.”The purchase would represent a significant boost in market share for Nokia, however, creating a European telecoms company worth over £28bn. Alcatel-Lucent share price rose 14% while Nokia’s fell 6.6% on the news this morning.•Microsoft bins Nokia name with new smartphone range
“We had some cats, but we found out that dogs do not react well to cats. So there are no cats on DogTV any more,” says Ron Levi, midway through explaining the origin story of the world’s first TV channel for dogs.For dogs. Not about dogs – although there are plenty of canines on-screen – but a channel designed for dogs to watch, usually (but not exclusively) when their owners are out of the house.To many non dog-owners, it may sound like a joke. To many dog owners, especially those who’ve had furniture, shoes and/or fridge-fulls of food chewed by a stressed-out animal home alone, the idea has (four) legs.Related:‘History, yes. Science, sure. Sharks, yes’ – what millennials want from factual TVDogTVisn’t a joke. Launched in Israel in 2009, it now has TV distribution deals in nine countries; is reaching a global audience through YouTube and its own apps; has “millions, maybe tens of millions” of viewers, and is part-owned by TV giant Discovery Communications.No cats, though, even if the original launch was inspired by a feline: a British cat called Charlie that Levi took with him when moving from the UK back to Tel Aviv.“I had this idea in 2007. Charlie used to stay at home alone every day, and give me the saddest eyes in the world when I came home, making me feel so guilty,” he says.“I downloaded some stuff from the net – videos of birds and squirrels and fish – and he just reacted amazingly. And it made me realise we can use the TV to help these animals that are depressed and bored.”According to Levi, DogTV’s initial research showed that 57% of Americans already left their TV on at home during the day for their pets, but that even channels like Animal Planet weren’t really suitable for a four-legged audience.“There are a lot of commercials, a lot of different sound levels, a lot of talking,” he says. “A lot of crocodiles that can scare your pet. These channels were not designed for animals.”Thus: DogTV. Not CatTV, despite Charlie inspiring the idea. “We thought that there was a real need with dogs: people feel really guilty leaving their dogs at home,” he says. “Most cats are like ‘you go to work, I’ll be fine! I’ll take care of this palace…’.”Levi stresses the science behind DogTV’s content, with its shows grouped into three categories: Stimulation, Relaxation and Exposure. The first to stimulate dogs’ brains, the second to chill them out, and the third to expose them (gently) to things they may find frightening in the real world, from fireworks and traffic to vacuum cleaners.“We spent our first three years researching, learning about dog vision and hearing: studies on areas like colours and sound frequencies. Then we produced two hours of content and tested it in a study in LA and New York, where we built security cameras into 38 apartments and monitored dogs watching TV,” he says.Hence the lesson that cats weren’t a hit with the target audience. “But also that dogs don’t respond too well to barking sounds. We had a lot of them at first, and some dogs got irritated and started to bark. So we took that out,” says Levi.Related:ATM dog: Forgotten your pin? Please join the queue for the dachshundIn some countries, DogTV is a subscription-based channel – $5 a month in the US, for example – while in others it’s free. Levi says it has subscribers from 35 different countries, but prefers not to reveal how many.“We’re available to 60m eyeballs around the world, but some of our new platforms aren’t even subscription. It’s a little shift from subscribers to users, if you will. We have millions or tens of millions of users, and we see the broader picture. So many people are discovering DogTV on different platforms: we’re free on YouTube and we have millions of views,” he says.Levi says that he’s relaxed about DogTV being treated as a gimmick in some quarters, before listing a series of reasons why it should be taken seriously.They include science – “three years of research and 60 different studies from universities” – as well as its “dream team” of four dog experts, including British dog trainer Victoria Stilwell, of It’s Me Or the Dog TV fame.Also patents. “We patented all the content. We have 11 different patents, which is huge. The colours that we have that are very specific to dog-vision, the sound frequencies, the music … it’s all patented,” says Levi, who also says that DogTV continues to refine its art over time.“Normally with music and visual content, people try to do more: another cut, another camera angle to make it more interesting. With dogs, it’s the opposite, you have to do less,” he explains.“If you do more, you’re going to lose your audience. Another cut, and the dog is ‘where did that go?’ and you’ve lost them. They have brains like two-year old kids: if you do another camera angle suddenly or go point-of-view, you’ve lost the dog. You lose your audience, and they get irritated.”DogTV has ‘millions, maybe tens of millions’ of viewers.What about the future? More TV deals in more countries, and the growth of DogTV’s digital channels on YouTube and through its apps for mobile devices and connected TVs. “That’s the biggest thing internationally: to bring this to as many dogs in the world as possible,” says Levi.What about cats? Charlie and his sad eyes ...“We get asked about cats every day! We get so many cats already watching the channel. There are some people with parrots who have subscribed. I’m not sure you’re going to see a ParrotTV or a FishTV, but CatTV makes sense. But for now, we are focusing on the dogs.”Related:TV industry faces its ‘ketchup’ moment: ‘Mobile is now the first screen’And their owners. In the US, DogTV has picked up on a trend for people to watch its channel with their pets, and started airing a few shows designed for co-viewing. There’s even a show called Dogstar, which is (sadly) nothing to do withKeanu Reeves’ now-defunct rock band, but is instead a show for viewers to send in videos of their own dogs.Levi is optimistic. “Every year I see less and less cynicism, and more people not just knowing about DogTV, but understanding DogTV as not a joke or a gimmick, but as a real thing that can help dogs feel more relaxed,” he says.Levi claims that DogTV regularly hears from viewers whose dogs were on medication for separation anxiety, but have come off the drugs since their owners subscribed to the channel.“Dogs get bored. Dogs are bored being home alone all day doing nothing. We don’t expect them to sit being a couch potato all day, but we’re giving them something in the background to help them be less depressed or stressed,” he says. “If we can help there, then we’ll have really achieved something.”
Google has celebrated the birth of one of the leading figures in the Indian freedom movement with a special doodle to commemorate the birthday of Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar.Born in 1891, BR Ambedkar became an Indian jurist, economist and politician who was in charge of the drafting of the constitution of the Indian republic.The Google homepage picture, 124 years after his birth, pays tribute to a figure who was credited with fighting for a free India and for the rights of persecuted classes within the state, including the dalits or “untouchables”.The son of an army officer, he was born in the town of Mhow, then in the Central Provinces of British India. He became a keen student with encouragement from his father and later became known for his academic achievements.Through his life, Ambedkar received doctorates from Columbia University and the London School of Economics. Popularly known as Babasaheb, he is described as being one of India’s first great economic thinkers. When he returned from England, he started to campaign against discrimination and organised marches.He worked with Mahatma Gandhi to ensure all people were treated as equal parts of the electorate and was asked to be the first law minister in the newly independent country.Following his death in 1956, a number of universities in India were named after the social campaigner. He converted to Buddhism in the same year as his death, prompting many dalits to follow him.
Paedophiles are using the digital currency bitcoin to buy child sexual abuse images online, according to the Internet Watch Foundation.Inits annual report for 2014, the group, which is tasked with attacking the problem of child abuse images online, said a number of the “most prolific commercial” child sexual abuse websites started accepting the currency as a payment for images last year. It discovered 37 websites selling the images for bitcoins between January and April 2014.The group said that illegal content was being sold in folders on legitimate websites which had been hacked, and that URLs for the websites were distributed via spam emails.Bitcoin has a number of properties which make it well suited for trading illegal material such as child sex abuse images. The cryptocurrency is completely decentralised, which means that no single authority can prevent trades from being made, or blacklist buyers and sellers.It is also largely pseudonymous, and there is nothing inherent to a bitcoin wallet that links it to any real-world individual. When the currency is used with care, it can be nearly impossible to discover the people behind online trades – a fact which was responsible for bitcoin’s first major real-world use, underpinning the online drugs marketplace the Silk Road.But while the currency is often described as “anonymous and untraceable”, there are a number of elements to its design which law enforcement authorities have been able to use to track down people attempting to use bitcoin illegally. The decentralised nature of the currency means that every single transaction is made in public, and in order to convert bitcoins into a conventional currency, they must typically be bought and sold through a bitcoin exchange. Those exchanges are often legally required to keep detailed records on customers, in order to comply with money-laundering regulations.The IWF said it was working with several of the world’s largest bitcoin exchanges to share intelligence and develop strategies for preventing the currency being used by distributors of child sexual abuse images.Emma Hardy, the IWF’s director of external relations, said: “One area we look at in particular is the commerciality of child sexual abuse images and videos – people who want to buy and sell this type of content online.“We noticed for the first time ever last year that cryptocurrency or bitcoin was being used.“We need to ensure we engage with those who run bitcoin services but also other ordinary payment mechanisms, financial providers, to ensure we can help prevent them being abused by criminals.”The IWF report also revealed that the number of web pages found with images of child sexual abuse soared by 137% last year.
Eve Onlinehas a reputation for brutal difficulty and sheer inaccessibility but the massive multiplayer online game is shaking things up to win new blood.What is it?One of the longest running and most successful online games,Eve Onlineis a sci-fi shooter set thousands of years in the future, in a region of space known as New Eden. Focused on ship-to-ship combat, exploration and commerce, players have near-total agency, with Icelandic developer CCP Games supporting whatever economic or political changes emerge.Who’s in it?There are about 600,000 players, and although the long-term are fiercely loyal, – many make an annual pilgrimage to theFanfestgathering in Reykjavik – newcomers often find it difficult to make inroads into their society. CCP is now looking to make the game more welcoming without sacrificing the depth that the hardcore have come to love.Changing how?The game has massively stripped back the entry requirements. A staggering 78-step tutorial and a novella’s worth of intro text is replaced by seven broad gameplay categories, explored at will. Players are now out and flying their ship in five minutes rather than an hour.An easier start?While the game’s mechanics are untouched, a few balancing measures have been added. The big one is “jump fatigue”, which prevents excessive teleportation around galaxies, designed to stop more established players slaughtering those just getting started then warping to another victim.Has it worked?The changes have rolled out only in the last couple of weeks, so we will have to wait for the long-term impact. on player numbers and retention It’s definitely a friendlier introduction to Eve, though – offering a slimmed down intro actually makes you feel more prepared and in control for the sprawling universe that awaits.
You walk into the dark. You close your eyes; you open your eyes. You can’t tell the difference. There’s a voice in your ear. Move forward, it says, go forward. There’s a device in your hand, a kind of mechanical automated compass. It tells you which direction to move in. You feel the pointer with your fingertips. Shuffling, a little afraid that you might stumble and fall, you walk on into the darkness in the direction you’ve been shown. You give your trust to the technology; the technology does not fail you.This isn’t a simulation of a disastrous Mars landing, although it feels as though it could be. It isn’t a new videogame, although the experience of relying utterly on a technological guide through an unfamiliar, unmapped space reminded me unmistakably of videogame navigation. It’s a theatre piece: a work calledFlatlandby company Extant whose director, Maria Oshodi, is blind and makes work that can be experienced in precisely the same way by blind and sighted audiences. It’s an example of how theatre is becoming increasingly interactive, participative, immersive. And to my mind, it’s an example of how videogame culture and ideas are bleeding out into other artforms.Artforms do influence each other. Novels have become increasingly “cinematic” over the past century; sinceThe Wire, many high-quality television dramas have consciously tried to be “novelistic”; modern dance companies such asMatthew Bourne’s New Adventurestake inspiration from movies. So it’s no surprise that videogames, the most popular and most lucrative entertainment medium in the world, should be exerting their influence on culture. Companies such asPunchdrunkmake huge works in cavernous spaces where the ability to explore and piece together clues from objects and interactions reminds me of old-school point-and-click adventures. The automated compass inFlatlandreminded me a little of the Companion Cube in platform puzzlerPortal, and director Oshodi told me that another participant had been reminded of “a cross between a ‘daemon’ from Philip Pullman’sHis Dark Materialstrilogy and the ‘ghost’ from the PS3 gameDestiny”. Meanwhile, pieces likeThe Unbuilt Roomemulate the tropes ofinteractive fictionAnnette Mees is creator and director ofEarly Days, an interactive theatre show in whichthe audience has the opportunity to build a new nation every night, and which will be at Battersea Arts Centre, London, from 21-25 April, before touring nationwide. Mees said: “All artforms interact with each other; a lot of people I know who make interactive theatre pieces look at videogames for inspiration.” For Mees, there’s a particular resonance between videogames and interactive theatre: both produce fictional worlds which are partly authored, partly left free for exploration. She’s interested in creating a theatrical framework which is solid, closed and authored enough to remain constantly interesting, but which is simultaneously open enough to genuinely respond to the active audience within it.It’s the same challenge as in videogame design, and it’s not surprising that both forms find similar solutions: active objects, exploring rich environments, set-pieces to watch, limiting opportunities to engage one-on-one with the actors, rules-based systems so participants aren’t confused about what to do next.But Mees also pointed out: “The world has become more interactive in all sorts of ways: the audience as participant, even in politics, is a big thing right now.” This is true, and suggests that even videogames, as much of a cultural behemoth as they are, are only part of a wider cultural trend. Pop-up restaurants in people’s homes could be read as the “interactivisation” of fine dining – you don’t just come along and get served a meal; on a table with strangers you’re also part of the entertainment. Reality television and programmes likeGoggleboxhave blurred the lines between performer and audience. Airbnb, Uber, JustPark and other “disruptive” services are erasing the distinctions between being a provider of a service (hotels, taxis, parking) and the consumer of that service. If you use Twitter or Facebook, you’re consuming the entertainment of others’ views and ideas, but also providing them; all to the benefit of the massive corporations that take the profit from the platform.As a trend this fuzzing of the distinction between maker and user seems unstoppable, a hallmark of our era. It’s partly a fantasy: although they seem to allow freedom, interactive theatrical and game experiences are carefully controlled, and no one’s going to be giving profit shares in Uber or Facebook to the users. Perhaps someone could make an immersive theatre piece about that.
Tuesday!
DALI KUBIK ONE100w power output (4 x 25w drivers),£800Aimed more at the music lover than TV fans, but it still produces very clear dialogue. Bluetooth means it’s great for streaming from your phone. Also connects via optical cable, so most TVs are compatible. There are analogue jacks for TVs without digital outputs.VERDICT: A high-end sound and priced as such. One of the best pieces of audio gear you can buy for the money – and with music it sings.RATING4/5SONOS PLAYBAR9 speakers: 6 midrange + 3 tweeters,£599Ideal for owners of a Sonos music system, but doesn’t rely on you having existing hardware. Connects up to your TV with a single, optical cable. A bit light on bass, but Sonos has a subwoofer available too. You can add more Sonos speakers to make a full surround system.VERDICT:Clean, crisp sound that works incredibly well for movie soundtracks, but with the advantages of Sonos as a multi-room streaming system.RATING5/5LG NB55404 x 40w drivers + separate 160w wireless subwoofer,£350Good value for a compact soundbar that also includes a separate wireless subwoofer. Not quite as pleasant sounding as the more expensive speakers, but gives good quality speech and very deep bass. Also has a single HDMI input for your Sky box, or Blu-ray player.VERDICT:Not ideal for those who want both music and movies covered, but for action movies the deep bass will satisfy.RATING4/5MONITOR AUDIO ASB-2160w total power output from 6 speakers,£700Somehow manages to strike a balance between price and performance. Brilliant vocal quality for dialogue and surprising bass for explosions. Also has three HDMI inputs and an output to make it very versatile. Can also be connected via optical and can work with a separate subwoofer for more low-end punch.VERDICT:The most useful of all these soundbars with great features and a decent remote. Music also not neglected here. Somewhat expensive, but worth it.RATING5/5LIBRATONE DIVA220w total power output from 5 speakers,£650The stylish Diva is finished with wool, available in a number of colours, so you can match it to your decor. Lack of remote means most people will need to use a smartphone to control advanced features, but Bluetooth and Apple Airplay support are great. This was the hardest soundbar to set up and needs the app to work best. It has a built-in subwoofer.VERDICT:A good sound overall, bass is solid and dialogue is clear but to get the best out of it you need to set it up using the app, which is frustrating.RATING3/5PHILIPS HTL5140100w speaker output + separate 220w wireless subwoofer,£223Sold in a box that seems far too small for a soundbar, but clips together in a clever fashion to produce a rather handsome finished product. It has a metal finish and can be mounted on the wall or sit on a table top. Sound is decent for dialogue, but there’s just much too much bass, even with the sub turned right down. It has some good features though, especially for the price.VERDICT: Has a lot of potential but is let down by overbearing bass. Its night mode does fix that, but flattens the sound a bit.RATING3/5
One evening, while playing Monster Hunter 4, I decided to ask my boyfriend which video game ladies he has a crush on. I figured we all have a secret little list of characters that make us wish they weren’t just polygons on a screen and who, frankly, we just fancy. My own selection includes, but is not limited to: enigmatic cowboy John Marston from Red Dead Redemption, spiritually-minded assassin Thane from Mass Effect, Alistair and Solas from Dragon Age, moody cop Leon Kennedy from Resident Evil (but only the Resident Evil 4 Leon withthatjacket) and Link from Legend of Zelda – but particularly the Hyrule Warriors version of Link. Having admitted all this to my boyfriend, I wanted to hear his list of fanciable women characters. That’s only fair, right?“I can’t really think of any,” was his surprising reply. “They’re nearly all designed to be sexy, but they … they don’t really have personalities.”Undeterred, I fired a list of ostensibly desirable women game characters at him – and he rolled his eyes at every one of them. I kept telling him, it doesn’t have to be true love, you don’t need to be looking for a longterm meaningful relationship with these women – after all, my reason for liking the Hyrule Warriors version of Link is that he has pretty hair and eyes.But no. Nothing.Those of us attracted to men have a fairly varied selection of looks and personalities to choose from in video games, because male characters generally have more going on than skimpy armour and gravity-defying body parts. Sure, you’re probably over-catered for if you like, say, cynical young guys with buzzcuts and tribal tattoos, or grizzled cops/soldiers/space marines with gigantic chips on their muscular shoulders. But if you’re interested in women who offer more than titillation, the search is more trying.Browse through any game collection and there are going to be a lot of female characters bouncing about the place, with little more to add to the story than a chainmail bikini. It’s an unavoidable and often embarrassing part of the hobby I love – the sense of shame when someone walks in on you playing Soul Calibur and you have to assure them that it’s a great fighting game and, yeah, all those clothes falling off is just “quirky design”.Outside of games, my boyfriend is a big comic book fan – in this medium, he is able to point to characters such as Batgirl and Captain Marvel, characters with their own complex stories and multifaceted personalities, characters who are not just there to add support or to get killed so that the male protagonist has something to whine about while he’s punching people.But when it comes to games, after a long think, he managed to come up with Tali from the Mass Effect series: an alien whose face you never see, with three fingers on each hand and legs that bend backwards.I asked other friends about the female characters that got their digital hearts fluttering, and the answers were nearly always women who were intelligently written and who were not overtly sexy: Claire Redfield from Resident Evil, Alyx Vance from Half-Life 2, Faith from Mirror’s Edge. But these are the characters thatalwaysget mentioned. No matter how many interesting female characters you indignantly list in response to this observation, there are a hundred male characters for every one of them.Alyx Vance projects much more than a sexual identity into the world of Half-Life 2Even games that have intelligent writing and progressive character development just can’t seem to abandon trite notions of sexiness – often when it doesn’t make sense within the carefully crafted narrative universe the cast inhabits. Mass Effect 2 has Tali, a rounded creation who seems universally admired and fancied, but it also has Miranda whose good looks, we are told, are genetically engineered – a fact that doesn’t wholly explain why she must always wear a skin-tight suit and be subjected to endless lingering butt shots.There is just this enormous gap between physical attraction and emotional connection that game designers are still having trouble navigating. Feeling true love for a fictional character is not a thing we’ll all admit to experiencing (although the vast online library of explicit fan-fiction suggests its pretty pervasive) but when it happens it involves something more than beauty.I don’t think the paucity of truly attractive female characters comes from a focus on creating engaging men, it frequently seems to emanate from a desire – or a pressure – to create women for the sole purpose of obvious sexual allure. The seeming inability of developers to represent an array of female body types and identities perpetuates the idea of women as decoration, leading to stunted character development. If the default starting position is sex appeal, you automatically create a character whose looks define them.Sexiness definitely should not be banished from video games – it can be an interesting character element. Bayonetta, Vivienne from Dragon Age: Inquisition and Morinth from Mass Effect 2 are all examples of how sex appeal is brilliantly effective when it makes sense to the character and the world that has been created around them. All too often, though, female sexuality in games seems to be stuck in some mid-90s lads’ mag purgatory, recalling the era when model Jo Guest advertised the sci-fi sim Battlecruiser 3000AD by straddling a boxed copy of the game, and when Lara Croft was in Playboy. At leastshehas moved on.There is absolutely nothing wrong with beautiful game characters – male protagonists themselves are often a mix of rugged good looks and hulking muscle mass. But there is still variety in design that is often lacking in their female counterparts. The women characters that stick with us are rarely the ones that protect their sizeable body parts within thin strips of metal or lace – they’re the ones who are fleshed-out as characters not as character models. Sex isn’t just about “beauty”; without personality there is no appeal beyond hollow physical attraction.Current TV shows like Orange is the New Black (pictured), Good Wife and Game of Thrones are loaded with brilliant, complicated womenPhotograph: Netflix/Courtesy Everett Co/RexThe most frustrating thing is that objectification creates hurdles for genuinely intelligent and engaging writing. Games have reached a point of narrative maturity where they can make us laugh and cry, where virtual environments are places we can lose ourselves in for hundreds of hours. But the persistence of “sexy” female characters who don’t make sense in the carefully crafted worlds they inhabit is jarring. Meanwhile, television is now widely considered to be the go-to place for quality drama, producing a whole gamut of provocative female characters from the casts of Orange is the New Black and Game of Thrones to Diance in Bojack Horseman.That’s what I’m asking for: characters whose sexuality makes sense and who have different things to offer. I don’t want fewer attractive women in games, I want more of them. As strange as this may sound, I want my boyfriend’s list of crafty digital crushes to be as long and varied as my own.
Some 957,000 Americans preordered the Apple Watch on Friday, the first day the company accepted orders, according to measurement company Slice. The new device appears to be off to a reasonable start, though far short of analysts’ estimates for the first year of sales for the device – as high as 60m for the whole of 2015.The watch is a rallying point for Apple lovers: 72% of purchasers had bought an Apple product in the past two years (though some of that probably has to do with the device’s iPhone requirement), and majority opinion favored both the larger of the two case sizes and the Apple Watch Sport, as opposed to thepricierApple Watch proper or themuch, much pricierApple Watch Edition. Preorders will begin shipping in April, but some will ship as late as May and June.“There are a lot of companies that would love to be selling 1m devices,” said Ramon Llamas of tech market analysis firm IDC. “But if you’re Apple, you’re sometimes unfairly judged when people say, ‘A million? That’s it?’ We started [our predictions for 2015] at 22m back in December and came back down to 16m. You’ve gotta give Apple a mulligan (a second chance) on their first-generation device – they’re learning a lot of things.” IDC will revisit its predictions this coming quarter.Last July, Morgan Stanley predicted Applecould sell 30m-60m Apple Watchesin the first 12 months. In the best-case scenario Apple would benefit from a “halo effect” as consumers added the watch to their portfolio of Apple products, Morgan Stanley predicted.Whether Apple can reach those targets remains to be seen, but Llamas said the gadget will help to trigger a major uptick in the popularity of wearable technology in the next few months. IDC is predicting 45.7m wearable tech devices will be sold in 2015. For “smart wearables” – gadgets like the Apple Watch that can run applications without another processor – IDC expects sales to more than quintuple this year.“The Apple Watch raises the profile of wearables in general and there are many vendors and devices that are eager to share the spotlight,” Llamaswrotelast month. “Basic wearables, meanwhile, will not disappear. In fact, we anticipate continued growth here as many segments of the market seek out simple, single-use wearable devices.”Speaking to the Guardian, Llamas said he believes the next generation of the Apple Watch will be the one that determines whether consumers are actually interested in the device. Until then, kinks need to be ironed out. “There are a lot of stories about how they didn’t get all the features they wanted into it, but frankly it would be a more compelling story if they did,” he said. “Also, the battery only lasts 18 hours, so, come on ... We can do better than this.”
Over the last two weeks, social news site Reddit has slowly split apart into warring factions. The Followers of the Shade have their hearts torn in two by the Bluetherhood and the Emerald Council on a regular basis, but their true enemies are the Knights of the Button. All that anyone really agrees on is that no matter what name the purples call themselves – be it the Purple Conclave, Purple Struggle, or Purple Lounge – they’re to be pitied.Let me back up.The Button counts down…On April Fool’s Day, the Reddit admins published a short blog post. “When this post is 10 minutes old, a button and timer will become active at/r/thebutton,” it explained.“The timer will count down from 60 seconds. If the button is pressed the timer will reset to 60 seconds and continue counting down.“You may only press the button once.”It may have been posted on 1 April, but the post was telling the truth: the newly-formed subreddit did indeed hold a button, a timer, and a dynamic small pie chart. Users can only push the button if they’re logged in with an account created before 1 April 2015, and, true to Reddit’s word, they can only ever push the button once.As I write, the button has been pushed 715,123 times.No-one knows what happens when the timer hits zero; it hasn’t made it that far yet. The lowest time to be shown on the clock so far is 27 seconds, on Sunday 12th at 9:48am. Then, somebody hit the button.Pushing the button.There’s one further twist: once you do push the button, you’re forever marked with the time you pushed it at. If you’re an impatient presser who reset the timer at just 59 seconds, everyone will know; and if you’re one of the hallowed few who clicked when there was less than 30 seconds on the clock, everyone will know.And not just thanks to an unobtrusive number. The user account is colour-coded into six bands: purple for those who press before the count hits 52, blue for those who press before 42, and so on, through green, yellow, orange and red. If you haven’t pressed yet, you’re given a grey badge, and if you registered after April 1st, you’re stuck with a white one forever.Hence the factions. Because once you start labelling people, you start giving them identities to rally around. The Blues and Greens, both relatively sizeable groups who nonetheless possess a certain exclusivity, congregate in their own special sub-reddits. The Yellows are so rare that they don’t even really have a community, but the Reds – even though no one has actually managed to score a red badge – are kept afloat through a community of wannabes,the Red Guard. They’ve even got their own credo:I submit myself to the Order of the Red,Long shall be our days and nights ahead,Although weary our watch, we shall not alter,No matter how arduous, we shall not falter,We shall stay the course of the rose-way instead,And receive the cherry fruits – stained in blood-red!And then, more numerous than any individual group, are the greys – the users who have not pushed the button. Some are waiting for their chance to join one of the non-purple groups; some are torn with indecision. But the Followers of the Shade have made an explicit decision to never push the button.There are more. The Knights of the Button aim to never let the timer hit zero, while the Destructionists want to “see the timer reach zero and the button destroyed”, and they don’t care how.There is even the Holy0, who believe that “when the Great Timer reaches the Holy Number 0 all true believers will reach salvation and all those who don’t will be forced into an eternity in one of Coloured Hells”, and the Grey Hopeful who believe that “those who have pressed not The Button shall be rewarded with Gold in the After-Timer”.The Button, visualised.Photograph: http://jamesrom.github.io/It’s all very silly. And yet, it’s curiously fascinating. The same drive that leads to the creation of button-based religions and cliques also encouraged James Romerilto create a graphic visualizer of the button’s history, andChris Stevens to start tracking the first time the button hit a record low count.But hovering behind it all is the question of what will happen when the timer hits zero. Knowing Reddit, it will likely be gloriously anticlimactic, but that doesn’t stop the curiousity from being maddening. Turning to one last data visualisation might scratch the itch slightly.According to Redditor ezeeetm’s Button Death Clock, at the current rate of participation, every active user on Reddit will have pushed the button in 222 days time. So come back on November 21 2015 – and until then, Don’t Push The Button.•Reddit: can anyone clean up the mess behind ‘the front page of the internet’?
Two years after the successful Kickstarter fund that projected Oculus Rift into the mass consciousness and launched the new era of consumer virtual reality, there are still a lot of questions to answer.What will VR apps actually look like? How will they work? Will they resemble the games we play on current consoles, or will they work more like virtual tourist attractions, giving us access to extraordinary environments and just letting us explore them?It’s a problem that every developer in the field is still grappling with. At the recent South West VR conference in Bristol, the main talking points were how to coax consumers into virtual experiences without scaring or alienating them – or making them feel sick. A whole new methodology is required.It’s definitely something Sony Computer Entertainment’s London studio is thinking about. Originally founded in 2002 as a merger of other UK PlayStation development houses, the team has, from the beginning, concentrated on experimental projects, initially under the guidance of R&amp;D head Dr Richard Marks, an Avionics major at MIT, with a PhD in aquatic robotics. In the late-90s he had envisioned using a cheap web camera as a PlayStation peripheral to produce mixed-media entertainment concepts. In 2003, the London studio produced EyeToy: Play, a selection of augmented reality mini-games that used the PlayStation 2 EyeToy camera and motion detection technology.An EyeToy demo, shown at the E3 games event in 2002, which shows how the camera merged computer graphics and videoPhotograph: public domainFrom here on, the studio specialised in exploring new interface technologies, creating karaoke sim SingStar and, later, the PS3 augmented reality project WonderBook. It’s now one of the key internal teams working on demos and concepts for Sony’s forthcoming virtual reality headset, Project Morpheus. Like Oculus Rift, the device, which connects to a PlayStation 4 consoles and fits comfortably on the user’s head, filling their visual field with a 5.7-inch OLED screen, promises to bring a new era of immersive VR games and applications.“There’s a whole bunch of things we needed to solve for augmented reality that you also need to solve for VR, so as a studio, the leap wasn’t so great,” explains Sony London head Dave Ranyard. “Within Sony, work on the headset had been going on for a while and we all just started collecting around it. We’d finished a big project – the Book of Potions – and we enjoyed that, we wanted to be involved in this technology. Everyone talks about the design challenges of VR, but this stuff is bread and butter to us: we like to get technology while there are still wires hanging out of it. Early on, Morpheus was literally a cycling helmet with a PlayStation Move controller taped on the top. That’s exciting to us!”So Sony London started working on some demos, exploring different elements of the VR experience. At last year’s E3 event in Los Angeles, the studio showed The Deep, in which the player is plunged into the ocean in a shark cage just as a great white swims by, and Street Luge, a simple racing sim where the user is hurtling down a narrow road on a luge, avoiding oncoming traffic.Both of these have been iterated to fine tune the experience. Originally, players would crash when they hit a car in Street Luge – exactly how impact would be handled in a traditionally screened game, but Ranyard says that was too jarring and disorientating in a VR experience. He equates this with the one-to-one nature of the VR experience: you feel like you’re “there” on the street, so getting hit by a car is traumatic; it’s not like viewing a car crashing on a screen, which provides a window that separates you from the experience. Now, when contact is made with a vehicle in Street Luge, it simply slows the player down.But to Ranyard, however, the biggest challenge for Sony is to make virtual reality a social experience – not just in terms of connected virtual worlds, but in terms of engaging other people in the same room as the Morpheus user. As Google found with its Glass AR prototype, people are quick to mock the users of AR and VR technology, and partially this is about exclusion – they don’t feel part of what that person is experiencing. That sort of social alienation needs to be defeated if these headsets are to become mass consumer items.“There’s this kind of sci-fi view of VR being about isolation, but we want to turn that on its head,” says Ranyard. “We’ve made a lot of local multiplayer games – SingStar, EyeToy, etc – and we’re actively using some of the things we’ve learned from them.”One method is simply to share what the Morpheus user is seeing. Ranyard claims that, while Morpheus was in the early stages of development, his studio petitioned for a feature that would show on the TV whatever the Morpheus player can see, so that everyone in the room can participate, if only as cheerleaders.But there are also plans for more inclusive experiences, including asymmetrical multiplayer games, involving one player on the Morpheus and another interacting via a DualShock controller and the TV screen, or a companion app on smartphone/tablet. “For example, we have a version of The Deep where someone has a radar view on their screen and they can speak to the diver,” says Ranyard. “We did another prototype where we put [SCE president] Shuhei Yoshida in a haunted house and you could control the scares on a tablet. We’re even looking at turn-based experiences. We just want to get other people involved, even if you only have one headset.”Sony isn’t alone in envisioning asymmetrical multiplayer experiences, of course. Game jams have become hotbeds of VR exploration and creativity, and we’ve seen lots of interesting ideas around the concepts of co-operation and instruction.Keep Talking and Nobody Explodes, for example, puts an Oculus Rift wearer in a virtual room with a complicated time bomb and other participants get a printed manual which explains a variety of puzzles that the device may feature. Also interesting is the installation game Taphobos, a sort of buried alive simulator, where the Oculus wearer gets inside an actual coffin and must look around its virtual onscreen representation for clues, which will allow a companion working on a PC to locate where their friend is buried.Many consumers will recoil from these concepts, but Ranyard thinks it’s all about slowly introducing the possibilities. So far, the prototype process has been geared toward establishing basic building blocks of VR experiences – The Deep was about fear, Street Luge was about adrenaline. Apparently, the studio is now working on demos around character interaction. Get the foundations right, and VR developers will begin to understand what people can and can’t take.Although, he says, history shows us that there will be a long period of adjustment. “When we started with virtual reality I was keen to see what we could learn from the development of cinema. I found out that it took 10 years to go from silent movies to talkies – they had to re-fit every cinema across the US, so for a decade films were being made for both. That’s interesting to me.“There’s been a resistance to VR from some people who were doing well from the status quo. I have come across dismissive reactions from quite senior people in the games industry. I did a DICE talk this year where I quoted the 30s movie maker Conrad Veidt who said: “In the middle of my third Hollywood picture The Magician, the earthquake hit Hollywood. Not the real earthquake. Just the talkies.”Ranyard says he’s not sure whether virtual reality will be a replacement technology, like, say, colour to black and white, or a companion technology, like television became to radio. But Sony is not alone in preparing for the future. Alongside Oculus Rift there’s also the Valve-backed HTC Vive, which has excellent technology and, unlike its rivals, a 2015 launch date. With Microsoft and Google also looking into a range of VR and AR technologies, the fates are aligning behind the tech.“I often think about the technological icon of the age,” says Ranyard. “In the 80s it was the Walkman, in the 2010s it’s the smartphone. When I’m retiring these handsets will look so old; there will be some other way of dealing with apps. Maybe that will be VR.“I’ve seen everyone from high-ranking industry executives to non-gamers playing with the Morpheus headset, and one thing I’ve learned is that, if there’s a visual icon for our coming age, it could well be someone wearing a VR headset, reacting to something the rest of us can’t see.”
Social media is providing fans with a direct line to TV comedy producer Ash Atalla for their views on his shows, although he admits that this can be a “double-edged sword” when they are being critical.“I now get personal feedback from every bastard in the whole world who can contact me directly with their thoughts on our show!” he joked, during an appearance at the MIPTV conference in Cannes.“In truth, I kinda love it, and of course I absolutely hate it. There was a tweet last week saying ‘I wouldn’t want to be Ash Atalla tomorrow morning, because he’s going to get fired’ after watching one of our shows. I thought that was quite humorous.”Related:‘History, yes. Science, sure. Sharks, yes’ – what millennials want from factual TVNot least because as managing director of production company Roughcut Television, Atalla is his own boss, in a career that has included Emmy and Golden Globe awards for The Office, which he executive produced.At MIPTV, Atalla warned of the dangers of subjecting comedy to too much feedback during the creative process, although he stressed that he is not against using research in a smarter way.“You can have too much feedback very easily. When you get so many voices encroaching on what you’re trying to do you can lose your mind,” he said. “Some of the most interesting work that has happened on planet earth would never have made it through research.”Atalla talked about the challenges of making comedy that travels beyond its home country, pointing to the existence of remakes of shows – The Office included – as a necessary strategy to ensure that they appeal to viewers elsewhere.“It’s just hard to make people laugh. It’s hard to make your friends laugh in a bar. It’s hard to make your family laugh. It’s hard to make one country laugh, so trying to make the world laugh is insane,” he said, while noting that The Office – “the most British thing I’ve made” – turned out to be the show that travelled best.Atalla said these are exciting times for producers of TV comedy, thanks to the boom in services delivering TV online, including Netflix and Amazon.“There’s never been a better moment to be doing what I do. I don’t mind where the show plays ... the number of places we can take work to has exploded,” he said. “The world has become a smaller place for a company like mine: you have 30, 40, 50 places you can take a single project.”The ‘comedy masterclass’ panel at MIPTV.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianAtalla was speaking on a panel that also included Viacom International Media Networks’ Caroline Beaton and Comedy Central’s Jill Offman, who both agreed that comedy can travel ever more widely – a trend that did not start with the digital age.Beaton cited shows like South Park, The Daily Show, Modern Family and 30 Rock as prime examples. “It’s really been a couple of decades now that comedy has been becoming more and more transferable from market to market,” she said.Offman said that Comedy Central has the research from its 73 countries to prove that comedy can travel well. “There’s certain things that make everybody laugh. Very sophisticated things like farting and falling over! Always good for a laugh everywhere,” she quipped.“Physical humour travels. Verbal jokes are a struggle. The multi-camera sitcom with a laugh track works much easier than a single-camera comedy without a laugh track, because people need those cues.”Offman’s current role includes heading up Comedy Central UK, where the network is developing shows with a range of British comedians and writers.“We go through hundreds and hundreds of scripts until we hear the right voice. And even then there’s a huge, laborious process. We’re nurturing a lot of young writers, and that takes time,” she said.Offman added that younger British writers “are raised on American sitcoms in a way that Brits of 10 or 15 years ago would never have admitted to. They will sit there for 10 or 15 minutes and do riffs from Big Bang Theory”, but warned that some can be stuck in specific sub-genres. “We don’t want 100 flat-share comedies, which is really what we get pitched: ‘the next Friends’.”Related:TV industry faces its ‘ketchup’ moment: ‘Mobile is now the first screen’The panel also featured Joe Lewis, head of original comedy programming at Amazon, which is commissioning comedies and making them available through its Instant Video service around the world. He cited The Office as an example of a show where “characters have real inner lives”, adding that Amazon looks for this when commissioning a new comedy.“The only way that works is if the characters have real inner lives: there’s no one there who just shows up, delivers a joke and leaves,” he said, adding that Amazon’s pilots system – it makes pilots of new shows and makes them available to watch, then uses reviews and data on how people watched and rewatched to decide which to commission as full series – gives new ideas a chance to thrive, including those from other countries.“If you’re on a service that’s archival, it might take longer to get people to watch it, but if you make something great, people will find it,” he said. “You’re going to see a lot of things changing, and I think people will watch things that are different from them culturally.”
The “Great Cannon” has entered the cyberwar lexicon alongside the “Great Firewall of China” after a new tool for censorship in the nation was named and described by researchers from the University of Toronto.The first use of the Great Cannon came in late March, when the coding site GitHub was flooded by traffic leaving it intermittently unresponsive for multiple days. The attack, using a method called “distributed denial of service” or DDoS, appeared to be targeting two specific users of the site: the New York Times’ Chinese mirror, and anti-censorship organisation GreatFire.org.Both users focus their efforts on allowing Chinese residents to bypass the country’s Great Firewall – the system China uses to restrict access to parts of the internet.The attack, which continued for almost two weeks, was observed by researchers led by the University of Toronto’s Bill Marczak. They concluded that it provides evidence of a new censorship tool above and beyond the Great Firewall.“While the attack infrastructure is co-located with the Great Firewall, the attack was carried out by a separate offensive system, with different capabilities and design, that we term the ‘Great Cannon’,” the researchers write.“The Great Cannon is not simply an extension of the Great Firewall, but a distinct attack tool that hijacks traffic to (or presumably from) individual IP addresses, and can arbitrarily replace unencrypted content as a man-in-the-middle.”Where the Great Firewall was a tool for largely passive censorship – preventing access to material and providing the Chinese state with the ability to spy on its residents – the Great Cannon provides the ability to effectively rewrite the internet on the fly.When used offensively, that ability can turn a normal internet user into a vector of attack. In the case of the GitHub attacks, the Great Cannon “intercepted traffic sent to Baidu infrastructure servers”, web servers run by China’s largest search engine “that host commonly used analytics, social, or advertising scripts”. Roughly 1.75% of the time it took that traffic and returned a malicious script, unwittingly enlisting the web surfer in the hacking campaign against GitHub. The scripts were not complex, doing little more than sending requests for content to GitHub; but the sheer quantity of users affected proved difficult for the site to handle.The researchers conclude that the Great Cannon, like the Great Firewall before it, is likely to be operated by the Chinese government. Both systems appear to be hosted on the same servers, and appear to share source code for intercepting communications. As such, its operation points to a shift in Chinese censorship tactics, “and has a highly visible impact”, the research says. “It is likely that this attack, with its potential for political backlash, would require the approval of high-level authorities within the Chinese government.”The Great Cannon’s first firing proved “exceptionally costly” to its target, GreatFire, and “may also reflect a desire to counter what the Chinese government perceives as US hegemony in cyberspace”, the researchers write.But the Cannon is potentially able to be more damaging still. A technically simple change in its configuration would let it target specific individuals, even if they did not reside in China, and intercept their communications the minute they communicate “with any Chinese server not employing cryptographic protections”.With the deployment of the Great Cannon, China is the third documented case of a government “tampering with unencrypted internet traffic to control information or launch attacks – the other two being the use of QUANTUM by the US NSA and UK’s GCHQ”.One major question left unanswered, the researchers say, is why the Great Cannon was first deployed in such a publicly visible fashion.“The repurposing of the devices of unwitting users in foreign jurisdictions for covert attacks in the interests of one country’s national priorities is a dangerous precedent – contrary to international norms, and in violation of widespread domestic laws prohibiting the unauthorised use of computing and networked systems,” they conclude.
There’s been a vigorous debate about the opportunities – or the lack of them – for black, Asian and minority ethnic (BAME) producers, writers and actors on British TV.In 2014,actor and comedian Lenny Henry called for new legislationto reverse a trend that has seen the number of BAME people working in the British television industry fall by 30.9% between 2006 and 2012.At the MIPTV conference in Cannes, a case study from one British production company suggested that online platforms like YouTube may also be able to play a role in persuading TV commissioners that there’s an audience for shows from a more diverse range of creators.PurpleGeko is the company behind Venus vs Mars, a comic drama thatstarted life as a six-webisode series on YouTube, but is now airing on Sky Living in the UK.Chief executive Victor Adebodun and writer Baby Isako said that the show was a response not just to the lack of diversity on British television, but also to the negative roles that existed for many BAME actors.“Baby’s script is a light-hearted romantic comedy in essence. It’s got a predominantly ethnic cast, but there’s no stereotypes in the show,” said Adebodun, while Isako said that with no formal scriptwriting background, she saw her chances of telling her story on TV as much slimmer than making a project for YouTube.Victor Adebodun and Baby Isako on stage at MIPTV.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianSix short-form episodes were shot for “more or less no budget” said Adebodun, who used his background in post-production to ensure that the show punched well above its weight in production quality.Related:Why black British drama is going online, not on TV“It was very entry-level camera equipment, but we had done research into what kind of hacks we could do with the footage and in post to make the quality as good as possible,” he said, noting that only around a third of the footage had to be reshot once Sky Living picked it up.Adebodun joked that Isako’s persistence in contacting broadcasters led to the deal – “Baby has a knack for annoying people!” – but more than 1m views of the series also proved that there was an audience for the show and its cast of “new and fresh” actors.Besides writing, Isako took on the role of promoting Venus vs Mars. “We made sure we had a platform on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, Snapchat. My job was to send out the message, the images, to make sure people knew when the next episode was coming out,” she said.Adebodun sees more BAME talent following in PurpleGeko’s footsteps in using YouTube as a platform to find audiences for stories that are not making their way through the traditional television commissioning process.“There’s a new generation of creators that are not waiting around for commissions, not waiting around for funding. They are getting up and doing it for themselves,” he said.“If you’ve got a true understanding and educate yourself to get the best out of the resources, you can truly make whatever you want … It’s a sense of ‘if you wanna do it, just get up and do it’.”
British children’s TV startup Hopster is expanding globally, launching its video-on-demand app in more than 100 countries at the end of April.The app, which has been installed more than 265,000 times since its launch in the UK in late 2013, is a Netflix-style subscription service, with parents paying £3.99 a month for its catalogue of shows and learning games.The expansion will initially involve Hopster’s iOS app and a catalogue of more than 600 episodes through global deals with producers including Nelvana, Millimages, Cake and Earthtree Media for shows including Max &amp; Ruby, Louie and Babar.Related:Pre-school app Hopster TV takes on Netflix with The Gruffalo in its corner“We raised some financing at the back of last year, and it was clear that one of the things it was going to make sense to do was to be in more places. One of the really cool things about a digital platform is it’s so much easier to be effectively global,” Hopster’s chief executive Nick Walters told the Guardian.“In the pay-TV world, if you want to launch in a new territory, you’re staring down the barrels of $700k in costs before you even launch. For us, at the end of the month we’re going to go into the App Store, flick a switch and it’ll be there.”For now, Hopster’s app will remain English-language, with the company hoping parents in other countries will see it as an opportunity for their children to learn English. Walters has high hopes for the app in countries like India in particular.“If you look at the size of the iOS App Store market globally, and you look at some of the third-party data sources, the education App Store category in India is one of the top three in the world,” he said.“The other interesting thing about India is that there are more smartphones than there are digital TV households. I think it’s got real potential for literally tens of millions of people in India’s first experience of rich, multi-channel media services to not be through TV, but through things they get on their phones and tablets.”One country that’s not part of this wave of expansion is the US, with Hopster biding its time before trying to crack the world’s most lucrative pay-TV market.“There’s a long and inglorious history of UK media companies charging into the US and then not getting it right. If we do it, we want to make sure it’s really right,” said Walters.Hopster’s most direct competitor is Latin American service PlayKids, which has also expanded globally. However, there are some even bigger companies in this space too, with Netflix and Amazon both increasing their catalogues of children’s shows, whileYouTube has its YouTube Kids app, albeit only in the US for now.Walters said that Hopster is happy to go up against Netflix and Amazon. “Does anyone, as a parent or as a content owner, want to be in a place where you only have one or two massive content warehouses doing all your video on demand?” he said. “Or do you think there is room for people who offer something a bit different?”Related:YouTube Kids ads row: how should we pay for children's entertainment?What about YouTube? Google’s video service is facing an investigation by the US Federal Trade Commission over the advertising in its YouTube Kids app, but it remains a massive player in the global children’s entertainment market.“I think YouTube Kids in some ways misses the point. What changed the industry was everything that YouTube had done for the previous three years. It was already a massive player in kids: there was loads of kids’ content there and kids spent loads of time watching it,” said Walters.“What they did was announce a sensible set of parental controls and a slightly different UX [user experience] wrapper, and that made sense. But when you do a word cloud of how people describe Hopster, the key words are ‘easy’, ‘educational’ and ‘entertainment’. I don’t think YouTube Kids is terribly easy, and I don’t think it’s terribly educational.”YouTube could be a rich source of content for Hopster as it strikes deals to add new shows to its app, however. One of its most popular strands already is Caspar Babypants, which started life as a children’s music channel on YouTube.“You’ll see us in the next year or so do deals with people who aren’t conventional kids TV companies. They might be people creating content for YouTube, or people who started life as games companies or doing design,” said Walters.He also stressed that Hopster is keen to pick up shows from independent TV producers who are struggling to get commissioned by the large children’s TV broadcasters.“Commissioning is really quite broken: the whole model of commissioning and distribution doesn’t really work any more. There’s far too much great stuff looking to get out on channels which increasingly aren’t commissioning, or are focused on a very small number of sources,” said Walters.“There’s definitely a great role or us in helping solve that problem by picking up shows and helping them find an audience. We’re curated and handpicked, and there’s a decent chance that a kid using Hopster will go into every channel at least once.”Related:TV industry faces its ‘ketchup’ moment: ‘Mobile is now the first screen’Hopster is sticking to its monthly subscription model for its global rollout. Walters declined to say how many of the 265k installs in the UK have turned into paying subscribers, but said he’s encouraged by the growth so far.“If you look at the App Store top grossing charts, we’re fairly consistently in the top 10 grossing apps for the entertainment category in the UK. That’s people paying. We’re growing subscribers overall certainly double-digits month-on-month, so I think we’re getting there,” he said.“You do have to work to explain why people should pay, but Hopster gets used by our subscribers for about half an hour a day, every day. If you think about that relative to the couple of quid you might pay for a magazine that lasts you a train ride, it’s pretty good value.”
“The word ‘millennial’ means a lot of different things to a lot of different people, so it’s totally useless really. Millennial means something that happens once every thousand years, like Hereford winning the Champions League.”Sam Barcroft, chief executive of Barcroft Productions, wasn’t entirely on-message with the concept of the “Future of Factual: What do Millennials Want?” panel session he was participating in at the MIPDoc conference in Cannes this weekend.“Everyone should reset that phrase. It’s used by advertising departments when the CEO rings up to say ‘I’m gonna sack you because our advertising revenues are so much worse than last year,” he continued, claiming that figuring out who millennials are and why they’re watching less broadcast TV has the television industry in a flap.Related:From YouTube to Vice – 10 trends that are changing how we watch TV“What they’ve realised is that there’s a new generation of people who are digital natives: they are people who were born with the internet, and who go to the internet first,” said Barcroft.“The millennial thing is just a panic button for most people, which is why Vice have done so well: ‘We understand millennials, that’s our tactic. We’re super cool, we know what millennials are’. When they went in to see these companies, everybody went ‘Really? I don’t know what they are, but I want to reach them.” But digital natives is what you want to concentrate on.”Barcroft Productions is reaching a fair few of those millen … digital natives, particularly with itsBarcroft TV YouTube channel, which has grown to more than 1m subscribers and 950m views with news reports built for social sharing – from crocodile-eating snakes and lion-tossing buffalo to “Instagram’s most famous butt” and a 175lb pit bull dog.‘Everything from D-Day to sharks to brain science to UFOs’The focus for the MIPDoc panel session was on whether young people still want to watch factual programmes: news and documentaries. Barcroft TV’s biggest hits tend towards the sensational, but its founder’s fellow panellists said that the millennial appetite for factual goes beyond the bizarre.Greg Diefenbach, managing director for US documentaries companyXiveTV, said that his company specialises in longform documentaries. “History, science, adventure: everything from D-Day to sharks to brain science to UFOs, but all longform: no clips,” he said. XiveTV distributes its shows through platforms like Amazon and Hulu, but also as a standalone app for iOS, Android and connected TVs.Diefenbach talked about a “legacy attitude” from YouTube’s early days. “There was this perception that online video is really about clips: nobody’s going to watch anything but clips,” he said. “One of the myths we’ve exploded was that people won’t watch longform content on IPTV platforms. They do.”He also agreed with Barcroft that the least interesting way to define “millennials” is to focus on their age – basically anyone who came of age between 2000 and now – preferring to point to other defining characteristics.“They’re generally tech-savvy, and they came of age and went into the marketplace at a time when the economy was not favourable to them, so they don’t have a traditional positive relationship with established businesses. They didn’t get paid well: they were generally broke as young people in tough economic times,” he said.“And third, they were bombarded with advertising from the time they were born. They’re generally very sceptical of traditional advertising messaging: it doesn’t work very well for them as they very easily filter out and turn off advertising messaging. So they have to be reached through other means. Peer group – peer-to-peer – messaging works very well. Traditional advertising works very poorly.”Greg Diefenbach of XiveTV at the MIPDoc conference.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianThe third member of the panel was Jeremy Lee, executive producer at UK factual production companyNerd TV. Lee suggested that the TV industry sometimes gets the wrong end of the stick when assuming younger viewers want completely different kinds of factual shows to older generations.“They are interested in stories that have strong narratives and long arcs and they’ll go wherever to find those stories,” he said, citing US series The Jinx – a miniseries about Robert Durst, who wassubsequently arrested on a murder warrantdue to comments he made while being filmed – as a recent example.“They want good compelling story which will engage them, but they also want shared viewing experiences,” said Lee. “In the UK, The Island at the moment is generating quite a lot of heat. So are things like Bake Off. They still want those experiences that linear TV can deliver.”Diefenbach agreed, suggesting younger viewers are far from completely divorced from the subjects that documentary makers have concentrated on in the past.“History, yeah. Science, sure. Sharks, yes. The difference is they’re seeking an authenticity – a voice – an authenticity around the presentation of that material that is unlike what we were accustomed to in the past,” he said.“If it feels slick, overproduced, if they’re being manipulated by a network … it feels pitchy, and that’s not resonating very well. If it feels like it has a point of view, it’s authentic, it’s shareable with their friends? That’s what’s going to do better.”Should established TV channels be chasing after the millennials audience? Barcroft didn’t mince his words with his opinion. “They have to, because otherwise all their viewers will die and there’ll be nobody left to watch their channels, which is what’s happening in newspapers,” he said. “What’s happening in cable TV is mirroring what happened in newspapers amazingly similarly.”‘People are watching our long docs on mobiles’Barcroft also talked about the importance of other screens, noting that his company tried 50 hours of longform documentaries on its online channel in 2014. “It turns out that 40% of our longform viewing is on mobile phones. People are watching our long docs on mobiles: that’s just what kids do,” he said.Diefenbach returned to the theme of YouTube’s early culture leading to some misconceptions about what online TV is good for – mainly shortform clips.“The interest in clips was moulded by the early technology: it was glitchy, it couldn’t load quickly, the resolution wasn’t very high. You’re not sitting down to watch an hour-long documentary. But as the technology improved, longform became more and more watchable and more deliverable online,” he said.“We deliver in-depth exploration of a subject in a way that traditional linear television is not willing to do, at least in the United States. For our Easter special, we did 18 hours on the history of the Bible and the origins of christianity. A super-deep dive for an audience that wants to drill deep.”Related:Messaging apps' next threads: encryption, payments, media and adsThis turned the conversation to the question of whether the assumption that younger viewers have shorter attention spans, with Barcroft encouraging his peers to pay more attention to neuroplasticity studies of how people’s brains are adapting to changing viewing behaviours.“Our brains are reprogramming in new ways which means attention spans are going down,” he said. “Networks have asked me to pitch series in 15-minute shows instead of half-hours. People are looking for shortform.”He pointed to two camps within the TV world: one that believes it doesn’t matter how long a show is as long as it’s engaging, and the other that thinks “shorter is better and longer is better but the middle bit is the bad bit”. He also warned that every show faces huge competition from other forms of entertainment – games, for example – with young people willing to turn off as soon as they get bored.“Your stuff has to be noisier, more compelling, and have an emotional kickback. It needs to make them feel something in their body. ‘Visceral’ is a good word,” said Barcroft. “You’ve got to use more of the tools in the toolbox to really connect.”Lee agreed. “Regardless of longform or shortform, it’s about engaging people really quickly,” he said. “If you can hit someone with a very powerful scene right at the start of your documentary, you’ve got their attention and they’re more likely to stick with you.”Barcroft had the last word. “Our golden rule is if the first 10 seconds doesn’t knock your socks off, nobody’s going to watch it,” he said.
Return to Drangleic and you will find the haunted land not entirely as you left it.Dark Souls II: Scholar of the First Sinis more than a graphically updated or DLC-bundled version of the dark fantasy RPG. All three of the “lost crowns” areas come on the disc, along with a higher frame rate and the choking darkness that the original game lacked. Now there really is a need to agonise over whether to carry a shield or a torch – should you prepare for an attack or see it coming more clearly?Scholar of the First Sinshows developer From Software at its best, with lots of tweaks to the mechanics and storytelling. Familiar levels are populated with familiar enemies, but in new patterns that drastically change the experience. Relying on memory from the previous game will not work – a favourite farming ground may now be a death trap. Think ofScholarlike a remastered audio track or the director’s cut to a beloved film; expert hands have pushed something already great to the next level.Between this andBloodborne, there’s never been a better time to be a masochist. Even veteranSoulsplayers will find something to love here.
Times are hard in Japan, and particularly so for the makers of single lens reflex (SLR) cameras – those one you see professionals touting,especially their digital (DSLR) variant. Combined worldwide sales of DSLRs and their sibling, mirrorless digital cameras are slumping year after year, according to data from Japan’sCamera and Imaging Products Association.Shipments of film cameras essentially died in 2006; DSLRs, which had been rising since 2000, quickly took over, ramping up until they reached a peak in 2008. The financial crisis in 2009 depressed sales badly but, after recovering in 2010 to a high of 120 million, they have gone down to a forecast of just over 30 million this year. Mirrorless cameras, which are more compact than SLR styles, have seen some growth, but they can’t make up for the overall indifference of the market to Cipa’s members’ offerings. Cipa isn’t the whole of the world’s camera industry, but it represents the vast majority of the high end – and so the money. And those numbers show that the money is pouring out of their business.This stark reality seems to infuriate people who love SLRs and DSLRs. Browse a few camera sites, and you’ll find people fulminating about the rubbish quality of photos taken with smartphones; you’ll also find them commenting on articles comparing the picture quality from various smartphones. Yes, DSLRs capture more light, because they have a larger sensor, and they have lots of settings to fiddle with. Their problem though is that they aren’t connected, and they don’t have a ton of apps devoted to sharing photos on them. They don’t (in general) have 3G or Wi-Fi connectivity. In 2013 Samsung made an Android-powered mirrorless stand-alone camera, the Galaxy NX which included 4G connectivity; it cost £699. Despite the apps and the Wi-Fi, there hasn’t been a follow-up, which I take to mean that it didn’t sell very well.Digital stand-alone cameras might be able to take better pictures (though probably only in the hands of a professional), but most people aren’t professionals; and they don’t want to carry around a second device.A cameraman sets up his equipment. However, now even professionals are also using smartphones to capture events.Photograph: Scott Heppell/APIt’s very noticeable how hard the top smartphone makers are trying to make the camera modules in their devices better and better. They’re not just trying to edge out stand-alone cameras; they’re trying to destroy them and own their space. Apple, in particular, having started with a pretty shoddy 2-megapixel offering in the first iPhone in 2007, has poured resources into its camera software and image processing. By the end of 2014 this put the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus to the top of camera siteDXOMark’s testing in October, just ahead of Samsung’s Galaxy S5; we await its tests on the Galaxy S6.And it’s not just stills where the smartphone is beginning to threaten traditional camera makers; video is the natural followup. In December 2014, the BBC’s Ed Campbell needed to get somevideo of the chaos inside Heathrow’s departure terminal; his phone was already outfitted with the BBC’s in-house iPhone app for newsgathering, PNG. He took some video, found a Wi-Fi hotspot, and uploaded it to the BBC’s system; and it was used on the10 O’Clock News. It didn’t, he thought, look that different from the footage taken by a professional with a shoulder-mounted camera.So what’s the future for the members of Cipa? Well, there is some good news. Top-end smartphones are selling in ever-greater numbers, and they need top-end sensors too. Sony announced recently that it’s going to increase its production of image sensors by 45% over the next 18 months to meet growing demand. Sony’s imaging division (which makes the sensors) is one of its most profitable divisions. Its customers include Xiaomi, the fast-growing Chinese smartphone maker, and Apple. When there’s a gold rush, sell shovels.
Interestingly, while Capcom has recently seemed intent on turning the Resident Evil series into a bombastic triple-A rollercoaster ride, the father of survival horror,Shinji Mikami, chose to take the genre back to its roots. He did so withThe Evil Within,which, while a little rough around the edges, was a wickedly crafted lesson in terror, taking players on a journey through the mind of a psychopath.The first of three planned DLC releases,The Assignmentadds another four hours’ worth of madness and despair, this time in the shoes of Juli Kidman – the rookie sidekick of the main game’s Sebastian. The gameplay shifts focus away from the combat and traps of Sebastian’s game, and Juli is forced to rely on hiding and deception to stay alive. It’s not the most ambitious DLC chapter, but is a worthy supplement for those with the stomach to handle it.
It’s Monday, suckers.
Created by Hal Laboratory, the studio behindKirbyandSuper Smash Bros,Boxboy!is intriguing not only as a unique puzzle platformer but one that stands in stark contrast to the saccharine, colourful worlds of the developer’s previous games, for this is a visually basic, monochrome experience that wouldn’t look out of place on the original Game Boy.Its simplistic look is deceptive, however. Players control a box with legs that can create other boxes (how many depends on the level). Their purpose is to create shapes with these boxes to navigate through the game’s more than 20 worlds and 150-plus levels. The latter can be completed in a matter of seconds, with each world introducing new elements – from conveyor belts to lasers – in order to keep the gameplay fresh.The main story worlds are gratifying without being especially taxing, while there are bonus worlds available for those wanting a sterner test. It may have a rudimentary exterior, butBoxboy!is as compulsive, charming and inventive as Hal’s more celebrated franchises.
“The TV industry will have to work on a mobile-first strategy. Not a digital-first strategy, but a mobile-first strategy, because mobile is now the first screen, and it’s taking time away from the TV.”Eric Scherer is director of future media at French broadcaster France Télévisions, so understanding – surprise! – the future of media is a key part of his job. In a speech at the MIPFormats conference in Cannes this weekend, he outlined the digital trends that he thinks are presenting traditional TV firms with headaches, but also huge opportunities.“We are in a growing business. We are not in the print business, we are in the video business, and it is a growing business,” said Scherer, before warning his audience of television industry executives that they must adapt fast to changing technology and habits of viewers.Related:YouTube is 10 years old, but what will it look like in 2025?Among the trends picked out by Scherer was the emergence of “a new syntax, a new grammar, a new vocabulary” for news, particularly when delivered through “the new kids on the block” in the form of apps including Instagram, Snapchat and Periscope.“They are always mobile, they are always social, they are always interactive … and it is more and more live,” he said, before turning his attention to YouTube and the growth of multi-channel networks (MCNs) like Maker Studios, which wasbought by Disney in 2014.“These are the people who are the new big players,” said Scherer, showing a slide of fresh-faced YouTubers. “These are the kids now ruling the entertainment, and it’s just the beginning of it. Again, new grammar, new syntax, new vocabulary.”Scherer added that the TV industry is realising that data will play a crucial role in helping it to increase the size of its audience; to have a stronger relationship with those viewers; to improve its shows; and to forge better partnerships with big brands to make more money from digital platforms.He warned TV firms not to abuse the privilege of having access to big data on viewers and viewing, though.“Trust is the next killer app when you talk about data,” he said, noting that at a time when governments and big technology firms alike are under scrutiny about how they track internet users: “You better have a good relationship with your end users. Trust and transparency are considered as new services.”Eric Scherer at the MIPFormats conference.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianScherer also talked up the idea of “immersion” as a key trend in TV viewing, including 4K-resolution screens and shows delivered not just by broadcasters and online firms like Netflix and Amazon, but also from companies like GoPro, with its next generation of wearable cameras.Virtual reality headsets are also on his radar. “VR is a total immersion inside the content, inside the fiction, inside the news, inside the documentary. Of course now it’s often in a very huge and very ugly helmet … but Samsung, Google, Sony, the big guys are all working on that,” said Scherer. “This immersion is the big new media of the next few years.”Scherer’s warning that TV firms must be thinking about mobile-first strategies was delivered alongside the claim that young viewers are not interested in what’s on the big screen in their living rooms.“The young people will not come back to the TV screen: at least the major TV screen that we knew for the last 40 years,” he said, while pointing to the booming video viewing on Facebook as one reason why.WhileFacebook has said that it is currently averaging 3bn video views a day, Scherer quoted a different statistic: Facebook now has more videos with more than 1m views than YouTube does. A stat that may be slightly misleading, if Facebook’s metrics count videos that have automatically played in people’s news feeds.Related:From YouTube to Vice – 10 trends that are changing how we watch TVScherer said the key challenge for the television industry is to move from “a mass media in a few markets – we were basically carpet-bombing without knowing where we were dropping our content – to a more precision media where we can target, and will more and more be able to find the market niches”.Earlier in his speech he also claimed that the forces influencing this shift have accelerated dramatically in 2015 alone.“This disruption has been expected for years now. We knew it was coming but we were short of some concrete evidence on this disruption. And guess what? In the last few weeks, the last few months, boom. Everything is coming almost at once,” said Scherer.He likened the shift to banging a bottle of tomato sauce for a while before it suddenly pours out. “We can call it the ketchup moment, if you want. TV is changing very quickly, and this change is right now.”
When I was five, each time I brushed my teeth I was rewarded with a gold star on a homemade chart. It worked out quite well, as I haven’t had a toothpaste-induced tantrum for around 20 years. Toothbrush technology has improved as dramatically as my behaviour since then. A simple stick with some splayed bristles isn’t good enough for the information age – now, the star chart is on your smartphone and every brushing session is recorded via Bluetooth.TheOral-B Pro 6000is the Ferrari of toothbrushes. It comes with brush-head holder, travel case, and a wireless LED timer that congratulates you with a smiley face when you’ve brushed for two minutes.The promotional bumpf says the toothbrush has “more calculation power than the Apollo 12 guidance system”. The bulky handle has a bright blue dashboard to show when it’s connected and rear lights that flash green when it’s time to move to another area of your mouth. If you press too hard, the lights turn red, the bristles slow down and an unhappy face scolds you on the timer. As with other good electric toothbrushes, the powerful buzzing and oscillating heads of the Pro 6000 make for an excellent clean. The “whitening” setting gives a satisfying rev while the soft “sensitive” brush head makes my teeth feel like they’re being buffed by cherubs who live on the iCloud.To connect the brush to a phone requires Bluetooth version 4.0, which rules mine out. I borrowed a better model from my datahead uncle and start to record my daily brushing habits with the Oral-B app. I can now see how long I have brushed for over a week and how close I am to beating my “brushing streak” record.More animated faces and motivational slogans like ‘‘All right! You’re great!” add a strangely warm glow to something I had mistakenly believed to be a rather banal event. The app’s extra features read like a list of incentives for those who need a serious nudge when it comes to oral hygiene. You can win “achievement” trophies for remembering to brush your tongue every day for a week, or build in more allocated brushing time for problem areas. It also provides you with world news and facts, which lead me to sprinkle my uncle’s phone with fluoride flecks while leaning in to read them.However, it is technical issues, rather than the absurdity of it all, that loses the brush points. The connection between the phone and toothbrush is relatively unstable and cut out at random. The Bluetooth function means that the handle takes a tedious 24 hours to charge and in my experience it lost power far quicker than the advertised 10 days.Once, the brush’s power cut out at 1:56 and I only got a three-star rating, and no smiley face. I had to suppress my five-year-old tears and resign myself to old-fashioned hand power. I’d probably continue to use the brush for its cleaning credentials, even if I’m not going to be uploading my brushing stats to Facebook any time soon. And I can’t deny the twinge of pride I felt each time the smiley face appeared – perhaps the age of the adult star chart really is upon us.Oral-B Pro 6000SmartSeries Bluetooth toothbrush RRP £99.99 atjohnlewis.com
ANGELA SASSEProfessor at Universty College London and director of the UK Research Institute in Science of Cyber SecurityPeople are fed up with battling to remember dozens of passwords. Entering them several times a day on various devices disrupts users’ flow and wastes time. Employers and service providers have started to realise this and are offering alternatives in the form of sensors and biometrics. Fingerprint biometrics have been available on mobile phones for a while, but the addition of Apple’s Touch ID marks a point of no return in the second coming of biometrics. While some security experts may be concerned about the use of fingerprints on their own, for customers it is a welcome escape from the struggle with passwords and the widely disliked two-factor authentification the banks inflict on them.RAMESH KESANUPALLIFounder of Nok Nok Labs and vice president of Fido Alliance, an industry body that seeks to standardise authentication methods beyond passwords.We are at an inflexion point where biometrics are ready for consumer-scale adoption both from quality and cost standpoints. You will see more and more Fido-enabled services in the field in the next 18 to 24 months. However, for a considerable amount of time, passwords will still be there as a recovery process. You will see Fido not only addressing the business pain, but also addressing the user pain. Each one of us has 20-25 accounts. We all use two or three passwords. Every one of us is accessing our emails and financial accounts using cell phones, where typing user names and passwords is not much fun. The server-side hacking to harvest accounts is a major problem. There will not be any server-side global attacks possible if you deploy Fido. There is no single type of authenticating solution that is going to be number one in the market. There is going to be a heterogeneous environment. Fido alliance brings all of them together.DR STEVEN MURDOCHPrincipal research fellow, University College London, and security architect at the Vasco Innovation Centre, CambridgeBiometrics show promise, but only as part of an authentication solution which optimises security, privacy and convenience. Biometrics let you authenticate without noticing you’re doing so, but this strength can also be their weakness. Your biometrics are continually exposed: your fingerprint to everything you touch or your face to every camera; and your biometrics can’t be changed (whether they’ve been compromised or for privacy). You can have a different password for each service and change them when compromised, giving control of who you authenticate to. We need to ensure that authentication solutions accept only biometrics shown by a real person (not recorded ones), that individuals can choose who they authenticate to and for what, and that everyone’s privacy is protected.STARBUGSecurity researcher at Telekom Innovation Laboratories, Berlin, Starbug showed how to hack Apple’s fingerprint sensor in 2013.It seems with Apple introducing fingerprint to their iPhone and the integration of face and iris recognition into Windows 10 the triumph of biometrics cannot be stopped. And for most users it’s better to use those features than weak or no passwords. But you have to keep in mind that biometric systems are not that much more secure than long passwords and if your biometric feature is stolen or lost you can’t get a new one. You leave biometric traces on things you touch and show your features in public.
Take us back to the beginning - what first gave you the idea to start vlogging?Well, back in 2009, I loved the idea of being a makeup artist, so went to college in my home town, Norwich, to learn. They’d just started uploading tutorials on to the internet, mainly to help students – how to do a smoky eye, stuff like that. They told me I should start a YouTube channel as a creative outlet, to practise makeup looks and get people’s opinions. That’s how it all started.How did it take off - sudden or steady?Slow, organic growth over the course of five years. One day, I’d get five new subscribers, next day 10, then it gradually grew every day. I had no idea it could turn into a career. I didn’t know you could make a penny from YouTube, I figured it was just a hobby.Has the way you make the videos changed much?When I started, I didn’t even have my own computer. I was using the inbuilt webcam on my boyfriend’s . I did that for a good couple of years before I invested in an HD camera, my own computer and so on.The content has changed too, hasn’t it? It’s no longer just beauty tips …Yes, it’s much more general now. Yesterday, I vlogged about going out for lunch and doing yoga (laughs). It started as strictly beauty because that was all I knew. I didn’t think people would want to watch stuff about my life. But as I started getting more viewers and got to know them, I realised they were just interested in me and what I was up to. I found I was passionate about sharing everyday stuff and people could relate to it. So now that’s mainly what I film.Tanya Burr says the subject of her posts has changed.Photograph: Tanya Burr/InstagramYou have 2.9 million YouTube subscribers, 1.6 million followers on Instagram and 1.3 million on Twitter. What’s the secret?I really don’t know. In the comments, people say I make them feel good, I’m relaxing to watch and they like my positivity and outlook on life.Do you look at those numbers and have to stop yourself getting big-headed?(Laughs) Not really, that’s not in my nature. My family help with that too. Even though I made the move to London, I still go back to Norwich and my life hasn’t changed. Social media’s part of my job so I have to do it, but it doesn’t ever feel like work. I love instagramming and tweeting. I’m kind of addicted.Do you ever think: “Stuff it, I can’t be bothered to make a video today”?Absolutely! But everyone feels like that about work sometimes. You might be thinking: “I can’t be bothered to interview that Tanya Burr.” (Laughs) Occasionally, I reschedule stuff if I don’t feel up to it. Earlier this week, I put in an admin day to get loads off my to-do list, then filmed the next day.What’s the appeal of YouTube over conventional TV channels?Much more up-to-date content. There’s nothing I want to watch on TV most of the time, whereas YouTube is like top-quality reality TV. And in the true sense – I don’t likeTOWIEorMade In Chelseabecause they’re so set up: “Go and stand on this cross and talk to this person about that.” Whereas vlogs are like being in someone’s house, chatting with them. It’s an insight into people’s lives.Ever been tempted to capitalise on the popularity of gaming vlogs by making a beauty-Minecraftmashup? You could scoop both markets.(Laughs) Safe to say I’ve never been tempted. I’m terrible at gaming. It wouldn’t be much fun watch me getting stuck on loads of levels.You’ve spoken about your battles with stress and anxiety. Was that difficult to bring up online? The internet can be a hostile place …That’s why I started talking about it on my blog rather than my YouTube channel. My blog has a much smaller audience and I get to approve all the comments, so it’s a much more controlled environment. I wanted to get my story down in an organised fashion, rather than babbling on in a video and crying or saying something I’d regret. Now people know about it, I can bring it up occasionally and it’s fine. I’m glad I did. It’s good to raise awareness and reassure people it’s OK, they’re not crazy. Because that’s what I thought when I was younger when I had no one to relate to.Tanya Burr started out by offering tutorials on makeup.Photograph: Tanya Burr/InstagramDo you still get negative reaction? How do you deal with trolls?Yes, every day. They usually tell me I’m boring or ugly – sometimes worse. It used to get to me but now I’m immune to it. I try to avoid reading them and don’t seek out the hate.You’re engaged to fellow vlogger Jim Chapman. Are you going to vlog your wedding?No. Jim and I were together three years before we started YouTubing and actually keep our relationship pretty private, contrary to what some people might think. We might post the odd cute Instagram or appear in each other’s videos but that’s quite a rare occurrence. Our relationship is so precious to us, we don’t feel comfortable putting it online or making money from it. We get offered couple’s shoots and joint projects all the time but we’re not up for that. I share a lot of my life online but that’s something I want to keep just for us.Did you ever consider using a pseudonym, like Zoella?No, Zoella has a real catch to it but I didn’t try any out. Pseudonyms can become a millstone. My friend Ingrid is Miss Glamorazzi and now she’s trying to get rid of it and return to her real name.Are you and Zoella friends or rivals?(Laughs) Friends. We get on very well and we’re not competitors in the slightest. Our styles are so different, we do different work and have different career goals. We don’t even live in the same city.Do you sit on the hallowed front row at London fashion week nowadays?Yes, I’ve been on the front row since my profile’s risen but when I first started going to shows, I’d be in the digital press area, standing at the back. Now I get invited as a face of the brand.You recently published a book,Love, Tanya. How was it going back to an old-fashioned medium?It was lovely. I’m amazed by how well it’s done. I did lots of signings and it was so cool to meet my viewers and put faces to names. Loads of them were like: “My Twitter name is @Sweetyballs” or whatever, and I was like: “Oh, I know who you are!”What’s next for you?Lots of exciting stuff – some of which, sadly, I can’t talk about yet! But what I can say is that I’ll be expanding my makeup line this summer. I’m also taking acting classes and hope to start auditioning for roles soon.BRIEF LIFEJune 1989Born in Norwich.October 2009Started her own YouTube channel.December 2012Engaged to vlogger Jim Chapman.January 2014Launched her own line of lip glosses and nail varnish.April 2014YouTube channel hits 2 million subscribers.September 2014Released first fashion collection for Very.co.uk.January 2015Released her autobiography,Love, Tanya.
Part of the inspiration behindRook– an app offering free access to ebooks, which is being shortlisted for awards even before it launches – lies in a pirated version of21 Jump Street. As Rook’s co-founder Curtis Moran tells me, he’d had no inclination to watch the film at the cinema, but when he took a chance on an online stream he found it surprisingly enjoyable. When the sequel (22 Jump Street) came out, he organised a cinema trip with his friends.Experiencing something for nothing, or next to nothing, can be the start of a fruitful relationship between consumer and producer. Library users buy more books, as do Kindle Unlimited users, according to a recent Nielsen survey. It’s risky to part with £17.99 on an unknown author, but take a punt for nothing and you might be so enamoured you’ll pre-order their next at the bookshop. Or so the theory goes.Launching in beta later this spring, with the support of two independent publishers who will be named at theLondon Book Fair(where it is also up for an innovation award), Rook provides “location-based free access to ebooks”. A user sitting in a Rook spot, which might be a cafe, a hospital or a train, can read ebooks for nothing, provided they remain within that location. If they leave, they can choose to buy the book.The biggest hurdle to overcome will be publisher suspicion about a great ebook giveaway. Fine if Rook spots are confined to a few cafes in London, but if their number swells to include the entire transport network, then the incentive to buy books will surely be reduced. Moran is confident that publishers have been softened up enough by subscription services to be open-minded about a platform that gives their content away in exchange for data and discovery, but I’m not so sure.
It’s 4am on a Tuesday when my phone pings. Still in the depths of sleep, I reach out and grab it, knocking a cold cup of coffee over the unread mountain of books on my bedside. I swear loudly, mop up the mess with one hand and look blearily at the message on my screen. It’s from Otis, 27, who I have apparently just matched with on Tinder: “Hey sexy like ur curls. Wanna come over n get naked and I’ll show you my curls.”And that was the day I deleted Tinder.There is no denying that the pursuit of love in the 21st century has become littered with digital landmines. There are now more than 91 million people around the world on dating apps – and most of that is thanks to Tinder. The first dating phone app of its kind, Tinder arrived on the scene in 2012, first in US colleges before spreading outwards, nationally and internationally, from Rome and London to Rio de Janeiro and Cape Town. The concept itself was simple – make people’s image front and centre, emulating how we first encounter people in real life, and ensure only people who have mutually approved each other’s profiles can start chatting. And finally, make it as simple and addictive as a game.Thanks to humanity’s universal enjoyment of passing aesthetic judgment on others, the app has grown at a phenomenal rate. In January it was reported that Tinder makes 21 million matches and processes 1.5 billion swipes every day – as of the start of this year, it had made 5 billion matches.But it has also emerged as a place where women regularly have to put up with the kind of sexist, vulgar and aggressive messages that, if said in real life, would see you instantly shunned as a pervert. Entire websites, blogs and even books have sprung up – such as the Instagram accountstindernightmares.comandByeFelipe– documenting the daily obscenities received, unprompted and unwanted, by millions of women. They can range from the relatively harmless (“I am sensing that you have magical boobs”) to the aggressive, with words such as “slut” bandied about freely.The founder of Bumble at Perla’s restaurant in Austin, Texas.Photograph: Jeff Wilson for the ObserverIndeed, during the 48 hours I dabbled with the dating app, Otis’s 4am message – while proving the straw that broke the camel’s back – was on the tame end of the scale. Even my male friends acknowledge it happening among their peers. Speaking to Oliver, 26, he recounted how he had been sitting with a friend who, flicking through Tinder, had matched with two girls in quick succession. Instantly he sent them both a pornographic message. I’m appalled, I say. What kind of person is he? “Oh, a really nice guy, just come out of a seven-year relationship. He’s really quiet and likes krautrock,” says Oliver. Why the messages then? Oliver shrugs. “Because he can, I guess. It’s horrible, but no one’s going to call him out on it.”Much of the blame for the unpleasant experiences had by women on dating apps has been put down them being mainly developed in the “boys-club culture” of Silicon Valley. It is an environment where only 11% of executives are women, an imbalance that seems to have filtered into the mindset of many dating apps. According to one developer, this has been perpetuated by the fact that dating sites and apps still make most of their revenue from men.“The biggest problem is women have always been ignored as a customer group,” he said. “Because no one has ever addressed the creep factor, women are constantly chased off dating websites and apps. So from a dating company perspective, they know that women are very fragile on the site and so often can’t be monetised. Therefore men have always been the focus, which has just perpetuated the problem.”However, the tide appears to be turning. A new generation of app developers, many of them women,are launching a digital fightback through a wave of female-orientated dating platforms.From apps where women are thegatekeepers to initiating conversations, to others where men can only be invited by women, the movement to ensure digital dating is no less fun for women is quickly gathering momentum. And the woman leading the charge is not who you might expect.I meet Tinder co-founder Whitney Wolfe in the airy surroundings of Perla’s restaurant in Austin, Texas, where lobsters and other edible crustaceans leer down at us from vast fish tanks. The chatty waiter who comes to take our orders opens with: “Howdy y’all,” in his friendly Texan drawl, and a stream of people dressed in cowboy hats, tassels and tie-dye filter past the window, on their way to the city’s famous South by Southwest festival. We are 1,242 miles away from Los Angeles, the home of Tinder, and 1,500 miles away from Silicon Valley, but frankly we could be in another world entirely.Related:Dating app Tinder facing sexual harassment lawsuit from co-founderWolfe, 25, lives here partly because it is the home of her oil tycoon boyfriend, but also because it signifies a distance that is both physical and metaphorical between her and her former life. Last year, she found herself the reluctant subject of a notably unpleasant media furore after she launched alawsuit against Tinder– the company she had worked at as both co-founder and head of marketing for almost three years. Her complaint was sexual harassment and discrimination against fellow co-founders, Justin Mateen and Sean Rad, alleging that when her romantic relationship with Mateen turned sour, he had sent her a stream of “horrendously sexist, racist, and otherwise inappropriate comments, emails, and text messages”. After Rad allegedly refused to deal with the situation, and even threatened to fire Wolfe, she resigned from the company.The resulting legal showdown – which was played out entirely in the public eye last summer – proved nasty and malicious, bringing out the worst in Silicon Valley’s notoriously misogynist culture. “Oh the irony,” screamed the internet. “The founder of a hook-up website is claiming sexual harassment.”Wolfe’s role in setting up Tinder was called into question by Mateen and Rad, and the stream of vindictive texts Mateen had sent to her was published online.The saga was eventually settled out of court last September with no admission of wrongdoing from either party. Wolfe was given a reported $1m settlement and stock in the company, while Mateen left his executive role at Tinder, closely followed by Rad.Open, warm and endearingly verbose, Wolfe becomes a closed book at the mention of Tinder: “The lawsuit was not about money, that is not what motivates me and it is not how I find fulfilment,” she says. “But I felt I had played an important role at Tinder and they tried to erase me from the company’s history. It was about being recognised for my work.”She sighs. “Look, the Tinder story is very tired. I find it really upsetting that the lawsuit still defines my story and I’m qualified by what happened at Tinder rather than the fact I am now a successful female CEO of a tech company at 25.”Indeed, it is this new venture that is the main reason behind our meeting.Bumble, which she set up just over six months ago, has swiftly established itself as one of the pioneering new dating apps designed toimprove the experience for women.Related:Sexism in Silicon Valley: Tinder, the 'Dave rule' and tech's glass ceilingOn the surface, it doesn’t seem all that different from Tinder. Profiles are connected to your Facebook (to prevent the use of fake profiles you have to have a certain number of friends to sign up) and users can scroll through pictures, swiping left to dismiss and right to match up.The game element that makes Tinder so addictive remains. But it has a few fundamental differences, mainly that once a match is made it is only the woman who can strike up the conversation. If they don’t talk to their match within 24 hours, the guy disappears.The thought behind it, says Wolfe, is simple. Having spoken to so many women who had been put off dating apps by a constant stream of creepy, uninitiated and often abusive messages from men, there seemed an obvious need for a platform that offered some level of female empowerment in the digital dating sphere. Revealingly, Wolfe admits she has never once used Tinder.I tell her I have some less admirable male friends who swipe right on everyone, without any discretion, just to increase their matches and chances of a hook-up. She nods. “That can be pretty common on certain dating apps. But Bumble gives the man a chance to not feel like the aggressor, and gives the woman a chance to take a little more control than society says is OK and steer the conversation from the beginning. This is all about women reclaiming that online dating space.”Wolfe adds: “What we are trying to be is the radical first step, because if someone doesn’t then nothing will change. Bumble is about establishing equality. I can’t speak on behalf of the entire male population, but in my experience when a man feels rejected, or fears being rejected, they respond with aggression. So if we eliminate the rejection, what is there to be aggressive about?”But before we get down to the nitty gritty of whether such an approach is attractive, or even viable, to the young single masses, I have to ask Wolfe why she would possibly want to get back into the world of dating apps? After everything that happened at Tinder, wasn’t she not tempted to retreat to a quiet corner of the world and just open a bookshop or take up gardening?Wolfe laughs and shakes her head. It’s clear that for a born entrepreneur who, at 19, set up her own successful business at Southern Methodist University designing charity tote bags, gardening is not really on the cards. “It was a no-brainer that I would stay doing something in technology, but to begin with I didn’t want to go back into the dating space at all,” she concedes. “It was not even a thought for me.”She was convinced otherwise by Andrey Andreev, the Russian entrepreneur who co-founded the billion-pound social networkBadoo, which, while not enormous in the UK, has 250 million users worldwide. Having met Wolfe while she was working at Tinder, he got in touch with her last August to discuss a new joint business venture.Whitney Wolfe.Photograph: Jeff Wilson for the ObserverWolfe initially wanted to make a positive social platform “somewhere between Snapchat and Instagram” that would encourage only positive behaviour between young people online. Andreev loved the angle of social responsibility and empowerment, but persuaded her to channel the ideas back into the turbulent world of dating apps. And so Bumble was born.Alongside turning the accepted social convention of men “always making the first move” on its head, part of Bumble’s raison d’être is championing that elusive concept of online accountability. It is most evident in its photo messaging. While matched users can send pictures to each other, each is watermarked with their name and photo, discouraging anyone from sending something (naked shots, for example) that they do not want screen-shot and forever attached to their identity online.But does Wolfe agree that the fundamental flaw in dating apps so far is that they are built by men, operating in a highly sexist environment?“In the past, women were brought in for perspective but they were not brought in to lead,” she says. “But as we know, getting her to give an isolated input is very different from putting it in her hands and letting her take charge.”“It’s interesting, because there’s this age-old question of, ‘What do women want, what makes women tick?’ Well, it seems obvious – put a woman in charge and she will show you. And I think that is what we are beginning to see happen with apps like Bumble.”She may well be right. Female empowerment in the world of dating apps now seems to be en vogue in the world of tech startups, and even Tinder, as part of itsnew subscription Plus packagelaunched in March, has introduced new reporting systems to try to stop men behaving badly. This new generation of dating apps includes the controversialLulu, where women can publicly rate men on everything from appearance to sexual performance, andThe Grade, which lets users score each other on the quality of their messages and speed at replying, therefore hopefully weeding out any creeps.I speak to Susie Lee, the creator behind another such “female-friendly” app calledSiren, where a woman’s photos are hidden to men until she chooses to match with them.Lee, who is a digital artist with a background in molecular biophysics, set it up less than a year ago because she felt the current models were unsafe and exposed, particularly for women. “If you allow women to control their photo visibility then it does two things very elegantly and quickly – one, it allows women to feel safer about navigating online socially and, two, it allows men to have a clear, more personal signal about who’s interested in them and puts a stop to those aimlessly aggressive interactions. It also stops people, be it your clients, your students, or your boss, seeing your full profile on the app, which women have also said was very important to them.”Susie Lee, creator of the ‘female-friendly’ app Siren.Photograph: Joseph FreemanThe app’s “siren call” feature lets women broadcast temporary messages to all men or only a select few, encouraging spur-of-the-moment dates. While it is currently only available on the west coast of America, Siren has proved so popular it is expanding globally in the summer.Even more interesting isWyldfire, which proves it is not only women taking on the so-called “creep factor”. Brian Freeman and Andrew White set up the app last year after both came out of long-term relationships and quickly lost faith in Tinder.“The bottom line was that your everyday girl was not super-enthusiastic about the prospect of using an online dating app to find a meaningful relationship, because it had just become associated with hookups and having to deal with creepy or aggressive behaviour,” said Freeman, 31. “But we didn’t think it needed to be that way. So we went and asked women: well, what do you want out of a dating app? It turned out be security, safety and enough information to make a decent decision. And the best way to do that in our minds was to have the women vet the men.”Wyldfire’s initial unique selling point is that only men invited by women could be a part of the app, though it has recently introduced an “election” feature where men can offer themselves up, without the recommendation of a female, to have their profile vetted by the women of Wyldfire who will decide if they should be let into the community. In a bid to get its members meeting up in real life, it has also limited the first interaction to 20 messages. “We’ve struck a chord,” said Freeman, citing the fact that the app has more than a 1,000 new members signing up every day.“Our point is, how much better would it be for everyone if women did not expect to receive those disgusting one-liners?” added Freeman. “We wanted to re-create the better parts of life online and we don’t want to isolate men, or make them feel sub-par or a different class of citizen, because we are also guys. So we want women to feel safe and we want guys to feel challenged.”An exemplary conversation from tindernightmares.comBack in London, I am intrigued to see how my male friends respond to the idea behind Bumble. After all, for a successful heterosexual dating app, you need both sexes on board.Wolfe had assured me that men love it and to prove her point she took me through the eligible men in Austin that Bumble has to offer, including several clean-shaven lawyers, a very muscly man called Wally, who seemed overly into hiking, and a trilingual artist. All impressive, but were they exceptions?Fred, 26, who just came out of a three-year relationship, jumps at the concept of Bumble. “I hate the pressure of always having to make the first move,” he tells me. “And so many girls on Tinder seem so jaded by the whole thing and never reply anyway, it feels like a wasted effort.”On my instruction he signs up to Bumble, starts swiping through the profiles and soon matches with a girl called Charmaine.“Hiya hun, how are you?” she messages him not soon after. I don’t want to intrude, but I text Fred a few days later. So what’s the verdict on Bumble? Is it true love with Charmaine?He texts back. “Charmaine happened to be into Comic Con. I am not. I wished her all the best, but not my cup of tea.”“Ah well, Fred,” I reply. “Better luck next time.”Which goes to show that while dating apps might be on their way to weeding out sexism, chemistry will be a harder problem to solve.WOMEN-FRIENDLY DATING APPSSIRENHere, women are given control of their visibility and are required to make the first move to create an online environment where they don’t feel unsafe. Profiles are built up over time from responses to daily questions generating a more accurate picture of people’s character.WYLDFIREThis “men by invitation-only” app hopes to create a network of desirable gents. Women can sign up freely but men need to be invited by the female users in an attempt to reduce the number of “creeps”.BUMBLEOn the surface, Bumble seems similar to Tinder, but women hold all the power. The notorious swiping left and right remains. However, once matched, conversations must start within 24 hours or they will disappear and can only be initiated by women.THE GRADESomewhat brutally, The Grade lives up to its name and marks users from A+ to F depending on th eir popularity, quality of messages and responsiveness. Users need to make a D average or higher, or they will be banned from the app.THE CATCHWomen browse men’s profiles and invite any they like to play something similar toBlind Date. The first four men who agree are set three questions to answer. Any responses are kept anonymous until a winner is chosen by the female inquirer.THE LEAGUEUsers’ LinkedIn profiles are mined to provide potential matches considered professionally and educationally equal. Despite being criticised as elitist, the app has some merits. Only five individuals are presented to users per day, removing the “binge swiping” which is frequently associated with Tinder and other dating apps.HAPPNDesigned to help you meet people whose path you have crossed, the app shows users within a 250-metre radius and tells you how many times you have been in the same area. You then hit the red love heart if you want to connect and wait to see if it’s mutual.DATTCHOne way to ensure no unwelcome male attention is to use Dattch, the UK-based lesbian dating app. It allows users to upload pictures of themselves and also of things they like that can convey their personality.
