The Seat Ibiza is what's known as a "supermini", which is essentially a more exciting way - how could it not be? - of saying "small hatchback". In effect, that's also the aim of its new design: to find a more exciting way of saying "small hatchback".Alas, it's not possible to be too exciting with small hatchbacks, because then they would probably become expensive small hatchbacks, thereby defeating the purpose of the whole concept - an affordable little car for the masses, or, more accurately, thrifty but style-conscious urbanites.The Spanish-based Seat (it sort of rhymes with Fiat, the company on which it was originally modelled) has ambitions to make major inroads into the supermini market, a sector already jammed with such models as the VW Polo and the Skoda Fabia. Both those cars happen to fall under the capacious Volkswagen umbrella, as does Seat, another subsidiary of VW, and the Ibiza shares a great many parts and underpinnings with its sister cars. As they're all more or less cannibalised versions of each other, the competition is perhaps less about performance than appearance. And the new Ibiza, like so many visitors to the holiday island from which it takes its name, looks determined to make the most of its modest assets.The chassis boasts more creases than a New Romantic's trousers. Along the side doors and panels runs a funky, Z-shaped line, as if at some point in its assembly the car had enjoyed an uncomfortably close encounter with Zorro.Assuming the Errol Flynn or Antonio Banderas role at Seat is one Luc Donckerwolke. With a name like that, you could do with a compensating sense of splendour. And Donckerwolke, Seat's chief designer, is no slouch when it comes to flamboyant gestures of elegance. He used to work for Lamborghini, where he conceived the Murcielago, a terrifying &uuml;berbabe of a sports car.The move to Seat must have been a bit like giving up epic poetry to become a tabloid journalist, which may explain the origin of the Ibiza's decorative flourishes. But has the lusty spirit of a 6.2 litre Murcielago - top speed 205mph - been infused into the functional confines of a 1.6 litre Ibiza?Well, not exactly, but it does suggest sportiness, which is no mean achievement for a five-door supermini. Apparently, this update is roomier than its predecessor, though the back seats are still suitable only for children or people who enjoy flying long-haul in economy. What's more, it's even quite perky in town traffic, nipping and tucking with the ease of a busy cosmetic surgeon.On the motorway, however, it's better to forget all about Donckerwolke's Lamborghini roots. Especially when going uphill. Driving to Dorset, I spent extended periods with my foot pressing the accelerator pedal right down. Granted, this seemed to cause more stress to my ankle than it did to the car, which behaved as if it were on cruise control. Nonetheless, it's probably wise to avoid getting into burn-offs with any passing Porsches.But then you don't buy a supermini to hang out in the fast lane. And in any case, outside of the dodgems, when do you ever get the thrill of "flooring" a car? Certainly not in a Lamborghini.Seat Ibiza 1.6 16V 105PSPrice:From £10,895Top speed116mphAcceleration0-62 in 10.5 secondsConsumption42.8mpgCO² emissions157g/kmEco rating6/10At the wheelVictoria PendletonIn a wordBalearic
If only all films were either as good as their trailers or the trailers could help you predict if you were going to like a movie. Saving you the trouble of having to go to a cinema to see them, this site houses every trailer of every upcoming movie and plenty of long-gone movies too. To help navigate there's a handy Top 150 chart, currently led by George W Bush biopic W. and Kevin Smith's Zack And Miri Make A Porno. For blogging types, all the clips can be easily embedded, while those tired of low-quality clips will rejoice because it's all in HD.
The Force UnleashedPS2, PS3, Wii, Xbox 360 (reviewed)While previous Star Wars games have given you control of a lightsaber, none of them managed to make you feel particularly powerful, and nearly all have been awful. Unleashed sets itself apart by handing you Force powers that manage to feel quite big and dangerous, so even though its lightsabers are as puny as ever, you're left with a sensation of being able to perpetrate bad things - as a Sith this is important. Battles consist of any number of enemies hurling themselves towards you for dicing or dispatch by Force powers, while levels feature the mix of starship interiors and alien worlds that will be familiar if you're enough of a Star Wars geek. Held back from greatness by repetitive and nuance-free combat, Unleashed still supplies lightweight entertainment firmly aimed at the casual gamer.• Activision, &pound;30-&pound;45Pipe ManiaNintendo DS (reviewed), PC, PS2, PSPWith a tap at one end and a drain at the other, each of revived classic Pipe Mania's levels fires you a random selection of plumbing parts, which you need to assemble into a coherent maze of pipes, guiding effluent and, later, electricity from source to end point. The journey is complicated by increasing numbers of obstacles and more stringent requirements on the length of piping that must be laid to gain even a shameful bronze ranking, marking a gentle progress through its gradually more complex levels. There's a superfluous story about seeing off a rival called Buffalo Bonzo; the music is, frankly, agonising; and the graphics might charitably be described as workmanlike. For all that (and using the DS stylus), it offers moments of tension and the odd desire to keep trying to improve, but lacks that elusive magic.• Empire, &pound;20
I yield to few in my love of gadgets: let a new gizmo arrive in the post or be brought back from the shops and you will see me fall on it like a lion on an antelope - I will savage the hard, clear, welded plastic packaging with my teeth and let out growls of drooling hunger and mews of pleasure. Out tumbles the doodad and straight away I will plug it in, install its drivers, power it up and connect it, and to hell with the manual. No matter how gimcrack or futile the toy might be, the adrenaline will surge, the lips part and the breathing come in shallow stertorous pants of ecstasy.Actually, there's a rider to that - aside from apologising for using the phrase "pants of ecstasy", I ought to make it clear that there is one genre of gadget that over the years has proved so preternaturally disappointing, so remorselessly useless, that I receive it with dread. I am talking about the so-called Universal Remote Control. I have drawers full of them. Over the years I have bought more than 50, and not one was any use. Someone gave me a cheap market stall giant URC as a joke and that - oddly enough - is the only one I use, but it is configured only for the TV, which brings me to the principles underlying these wastes of plastic.It ought to make so much sense. We sit hunched on our sofas while a lapping tide of remote controls surges towards us, threatening to flood every spare square inch of surface. Why not unite them into one remote? It really ought to work, I do see that. And yet... The configuration processes, whether by code look-up table, online software connection or IR "learning", never work satisfactorily, unless I have been unlucky 50 times on the bounce, which is possible, if statistically improbable. I won't claim they have never worked, but they have proved more cumbersome and annoying than the problems they were designed to solve. Maybe it is just me, but some mixture of muscle memory and brain mapping has meant that I have been happier with the complicated routines of the six or seven devices I know than with the streamlined convenience of one URC.It was with low expectations, then, that I unpacked the Logitech Harmony One and the Philips Prestigo SRU 8015. Each has a colour LCD screen and claims to solve your remote control problems in one fell swoop with ease and power. After half an hour with each, I wanted to hurl them out of the window. They are not as dreadful as what has gone before, they are much worse: worse because there is so much more (badly implemented) technology to come between the problem and the solution. They both come - and this should alert anyone with an eye sensitive to technology - in the shiny piano black that was fashionable some years ago. Both Logitech and Philips have always had poor design sense, and this is demonstrated by their desire to copy colours and forms precisely at the moment they become tired and dated. But that shouldn't matter if the functions are taken care of.The Harmony One is configured with your DVD, satellite, TV, amplifier and games machine by connecting it via USB to an online computer. You go through a tedious and ill-designed process, on PC or Mac (beware the Mac online update to the software that comes bundled with the remote - it simply does not work: I am not alone in finding this out; forums and user group sites are alive with furious users who have had to uninstall the update) and eventually five or six of your devices can be controlled by the Harmony handset. Only they can't, because the system stinks.The maddeningly non-intuitive Philips Prestigo uses inbuilt codes and works little better. Between them these two useless implements have sucked four hours out of my life. Usually I don't mind when time is frittered away in digital device play, but somehow when it is lost trying to use objects whose only purpose is to simplify and harmonise, I get very cross indeed.Initials of the weekURCUniversal Remote Control or Useless Rotten Crud...
I've just had the pleasure of reporting a somewhat unusual fault to Virgin: the problem is that my telephone line is working fine. It shouldn't be. I discontinued the line (along with Virgin Broadband) a couple of months ago.At one time, my little suburban semi had three landlines and three (or maybe four) broadband connections: BT Business Broadband, Virgin cable, a satellite internet service, and a Vodafone dongle, if you want to count that. Oh yeah, and four or five mobile phone lines: it's hard to keep track.Under pressure from my financial controller, who prefers to invest in handbags, we've reduced our communications infrastructure to a more normal level, and her Virgin landline was one of the ones to go. So I was a bit surprised this afternoon, when Mrs Schofield's "dead" phone started beeping to tell me it was off the hook.Click, it works. I dialled 1-2-3: yes, I can make calls. I called my mobile: it's not a number that has ever belonged to us. So it looks as though a neighbour has asked for a Virgin landline, and they've connected it to us by mistake….I don't expect you have ever tried to report a fault where "The fault is that my landline is working perfectly, and it shouldn't be." Customer services departments are flummoxed if you call them on a line that is not listed on your account. Fault department procedures are set up to deal with lines that are not working correctly. It's not a problem anybody wants on a Friday afternoon….Anyway, I think I got the message across, but I still have a working Virgin landline. I'm now waiting for it to ring, so I can ask: "Who are you trying to call?"
As you will have noticed, we're now using a new design and new blog software for Ask Jack. One of the things I asked for was the prominent display of a useful bit of information, which is that if you want to ask a question for publication, you must email it to Jack.Schofield (at) guardian.co.uk -- so I'm still working on that.Sorry, there is no simple way you can ask questions online. I could provide a post to let you do that, but then I would not have your email address….PostsThe big question now is how you would like to read posts. If you look down, you can see there are several options. I can show just the intro, or the intro and the query, or part of the post, or the whole post. Which is best?Of course, if I publish whole posts, the "Most viewed" list becomes meaningless because there's no way to register the click that shows you viewed something!CommentsPreviously, you were not able to add comments to posts after four or five days. I think I have now extended that to 14 days. Is that too long, not long enough, or the right compromise?What about old posts that pop up under Most Viewed?LinksI put together a list of what I hope are useful sites under "Sites we like" on the right. They reflect the most frequently asked questions. Which sites are missing that really should be in there? (Which do you find most useful?) Are there any sites that you think shouldnotbe in there?Any other thoughts? I'd appreciate some help ;-)
In Chicago, district judge Matthew F Kennelly has dismissed a lawsuit against Apple without it going to trial. The lawsuit claimed Apple did not "immediately tell customers about the limited life of batteries for its iPhone or their $86 replacement cost, including delivery," reportsBloomberg."Apple disclosed on the outside of the iPhone package that [the battery has] 'limited recharge cycles and may eventually need to be replaced by Apple service provider'," Kennelly wrote in his Sept. 23 opinion, quoting the packaging. "Under the circumstances, no reasonable jury could find that deception occurred.''In any case, I can't imagine many people were taken in. I expect most iPhone buyers already have iPods and are therefore familiar with this basic Apple design flaw, and it's not a very significant flaw. Some people carry phone chargers around, but hardly anyone carries a spare battery for their mobile phone. Not even I do that.
What's your favourite piece of technology?MyBose Portable SoundDock.How has it improved your life?I now have the means to listen to any song on my iPod as loud as I want, whenever and wherever I want, with no compromise to sound quality.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I was driving with my mate last week and his car stereo wasn't quite up to par. I set the SoundDock up on the back seat and we had our favourite sounds blasting on our drive up north.What additional features would you add if you could?A sleep timer would be great, so you could leave it playing, knowing that it would shut down on its own, but that's being finicky. It's a stellar product.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?People will always want good quality, portable sound, and if the source is an iPod, then I doubt docks will be obsolete anytime soon.Do you consider yourself to be a Luddite or a nerd?Advancements in technology are inevitable, but I struggle to keep up. So I'm gonna say that I'm somewhere in the middle. I'm a "Ludd-erd" !What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I'm a great fan of Kurzweil stage pianos. They set me back a fair whack each time I upgrade.Mac or PC?Mac … do people still use PCs?What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played list?Van Morrison's Moondance.Will robots rule the world?Yes. One day some super-smart guy will make a robot slightly smarter than all of the super-smart people.  Then the Terminator movies will come true.What one piece of technology would you most like to own?Something that can transport me between New Zealand and the United Kingdom faster than is currently possible. Either some form of teleportation device, or an Aston Martin DB9 with a jet engine!Will Martin's debut album, A New World, is out now
This week I've explained a number of little things about the way the Guardian Technology website works to help you get a little more out - firsthow our site's organised, then some details onour RSS feeds.Today I'm going to explain a couple of things that are direct benefits of registering to leave comments on the site.In order to comment on any article on the Guardian website - including some news stories, opinion pieces and all of our blog posts - you have to register. It's a bummer, in many ways, but it does help weed out the trolls a little.One added benefit, however, is that every commenter gets their own user profile page at guardian.co.uk/users/username (here's mine, for example. We're planning on adding extra functions to user profiles over time, but what exactly can you do with it right now?Well, first of all it keeps all of your comments in one place. That's great if you can't remember exactly what you said, or where you said it. Just click on the 'show all comments'  - or go straight to guardian.co.uk/users/username/commentsThis can be useful for you, but also handy to checkotherpeople's comments. Suspect somebody's a troll? Check their most recent comments to see if they just spend their days trying to wind people up across the site. Or perhaps they've got a serious thing for complaining about one pet hate, and you don't need to bother responding. Whatever, you can make a more informed choice about how you comment and talk with other users.Also on the user profile page you can see clippings. This is an internal bookmarking service that we've got for the Guardian, and one we're planning on expanding over time. Just press the little pink scissors icon visible on the right hand side of any articleto keep a copy on file. You can even build your own special pages pulling together articles from across the site - over on our Inside Guardian blog earlier this year, my colleague Sean Clarkeexplained how it works.Oh, and you get an avatar too. Right now you can't upload pictures to your profile, but you can at least choose a colour for your Cluedo-esque virtual representative on Guardian.co.uk.There's more to come in this area - and suggestions are always welcome.
You may have noticed that besides getting younger, police officers are also flaunting a lot more technology. Besides their walkie-talkie, pepper spray, truncheon, stab vest, handcuffs and notebook, they're starting to wield all sorts of other gadgets – route-finders, BlackBerries, you name it. The average police car now resembles a baby Stealth bomber; press the wrong button on the dashboard and you'd probably launch an attack on whoever we're at war with this week.But it occurs to me that our problem is not that the police have too much technology. Quite the opposite: a little bit more of a system that's already being used for fun – and looking for a home – would make policing both more reliable and more effective.So here's what to do. Equip police officers with little video cameras able to record every moment of their working day. The technology already exists: Microsoft's Cambridge Research team has been demonstrating something like it for years, under theSensecamname. Their idea was that it could be useful for people with memory problems who wanted to remember where they left their keys, though it only does photos, not video. But of course we've now got incrediblycheap handheld camcorderslike Pure Digital's Flip and the Kodak Zi6.Yes, I know that the police already havewebcams on their helmets in some places. But this goes far beyond that. Those cameras are expensive and limited in storage. I'm talking about something small, unobtrusive, cheap and, most of all, used all the time.The principal problem for the police is that they still spendtoo much time filling in forms. Second, the number ofcomplaints about police behaviour has increased dramatically. Though a police spokesman insists they're unjustified.Having the Sensecam – or its big video brother – attached to a police officer would simplify things. There'd be a pinhole camera and microphone attached to their uniform, linked to a solid-state store on their belt (say). What they see is what the camera sees. If they're trying to arrest someone, they'll see their face, and so will the camera. If they stop and search someone, the details are going to be audible. At the end of the day they can plug the storage into a computer at the police station, where it'll be downloaded, tagged and stored.Here's the next part: if they need to fill in details about an arrest or search, then they call up the film, zip through it to the relevant bit, and tag that to the document they're filling in – which of course, in our newly minted police world, will be on a computer. Less typing involved.If that sounds a bit unlikely, consider that we're already used to seeing in police videos. Car chases (with GPS and speed displayed on the bottom of the screen) have become standard fodder on TV channels; footage of police custody interviews is often released after a defendant is found guilty. We're also accustomed to fly-on-the-wall footage of the police going about their business arresting people who are too drunk to stand up properly yet somehow not drunk enough not to fight.Policing has changed radically. Up to the 1980s, when tape-recording of police interviews became mandatory, it was still a defendant's (and their lawyer's) word against the police's about precisely what had been said in the interview room. But with audio recording, and the addition of video, we can hear and see for ourselves what really happened.I'm not saying it would solve our policing problems overnight. Police officers would feel uncomfortable with the idea that their chat while they're on the beat would be recorded, perhaps for all time. They'd feel observed. There'd be the problems of lenses or microphones being conveniently obscured to cover up malfeasance. There'd be the problem of teaching a generation of police how to operate video. There'd be the hassle of storing the data and keeping it backed up; storage demands would soar.Yet with the cost of storage halving every year, this has to be feasible. It might not come soon, but with people complaining about the police, and the police complaining about form-filling, it's got to be an improvement. Everyone keeps talking about getting police back on to the streets and away from the keyboard. So let's be having you, officers, and don't forget the battery pack for the video.
Accordingto Kotaku, Jack Thompson, the - how shall I put this? -well-knownanti-videogame campiagner has been disbarred by a Florida judge for misconduct. From the official complaint document:Over a very extended period of time involving a number of totally unrelated cases and individuals, [r]espondent has demonstrated a pattern of conduct to strike out harshly, extensively, repeatedly and willfully to simply try to bring as much difficulty, distraction and anguish to those he considers in opposition to his causes. He does not proceed within the guidelines of appropriate professional behavior, but rather uses other means available to intimidate, harass, or bring public disrepute to those whom he perceives oppose him.Thompson'sresponseis vintage stuff:The timing of this disbarment transparently reveals its motivation: This past Friday Thompson filed a federal civil rights action against The Bar, the Supreme Court, and all seven of its Justices. This rush to disbarment is in retribution for the filing of that federal suit. With enemies this foolish, Thompson needs only the loyal friends he has.Why is there no documentary series following this man? If the Guardian will pay, I'll gladly make it.But is this good news for the games industry?I don't think so. Thompson was the games industry equivalent of a UFO conspiracy nut. There's a theory that the US government actively encourages and facilitates the UFO fraternity, because a) they discredit the whole concept of clandestine government activity with their mad beards and tie-died clothing, and b) because they divert attention away from what the military-industrial complex isreallyworking on - i.e.pain raysandanti-riot stink bombs. Thompson made the anti-game movement look nuttier than a Snickers factory - I wouldn't be surprised to discover that he'd been a Rockstar stooge all this time.But of course, being disbarred won't stop him. Emancipated from his responsibilities as a professional lawyer, he'll be free to redouble his efforts against the industry, this time with no heed to the restricive vagaries of the legal system. He was a loose cannon, now he's an Exocet missile with poorly wired guidance controls. "...this should be fun, starting now," he apparently wrote in an email to Kotaku. This, lord help us, is just the beginning.
The world's love affair with the mobile phone shows no sign of abating, with the head of the UN's agency for information and communication technologies predicting that there will be 4 billion mobile phone users - or more than half of the planet's estimated 6.7 billion inhabitants - by the end of this year.Hamadoun Touré, secretary general of the International Telecom Union, said growth has been driven by consumer take-up in developing markets such as China, India and Latin America.Speaking at the UN's session on the Millennium Development Goals in New York, he added: "The fact that 4 billion subscribers have been registered worldwide indicates that it is technically feasible to connect the world to the benefits of information communications technology."The mobile phone industry has boomed over the past eight years, recording average year-on-year subscriber growth of 24%. At the start of the century, just 12% of the world's population had a mobile phone. Now that figure is well over 50% and is estimated to reach about 61% by the end of 2008.The reduction in cost of mobile phone handsets and the fact that in many developing countries the fixed line infrastructure is patchy at best has made mobile communications extremely attractive to consumers in developing countries and markets. The so-called BRIC countries of Brazil, Russia, India and China are expected to account for over 1.3 billion mobile subscribers by the end of this year.At the same time, the more developed markets such as western Europe have reached saturation point, with competition and regulation reducing prices. As a result, many of the major western players are looking to the developing world for their next stage of growth.The ITU said the figures count subscribers so would include some double counting of consumers who have more than one mobile phone - as is often the case in countries such as Italy, where people have different numbers for work and personal use. But the actual number number of mobile phone users may be higher, as some subscribers, particularly in developing countries, share their mobile phone with others.Joss Gillet, senior analyst at Wireless Intelligence - the mobile market data service from GSM Media which is part of industry body the GSM Association - said about 600m new mobile phone connections will be added this year.Africa and the Middle East are the two fastest-growing regions with yearly growth expected to reach, respectively, 27% and 25%, followed by Asia-Pacific on 23.6%. Operators in India, Bangladesh, Iran, Ivory Coast, Uganda and Afghanistan have recorded the fastest growth so far this year.Of those connections, mobile phones using the GSM standard - as found in the UK and across Europe - are expected to account for 80% of the total connections by the end of this year. The CDMA family of technologies found in China and the USA will have just over 10%, with the rest using new high-speed 3G networks.Gillet said the industry should be able to weather the current economic turmoil. In Europe, mobile revenues grew faster than GDP last year and "in 2008, we expect to see a similar relatively healthy growth in mobile revenues for operators in western Europe where competition is getting tougher."Operators in mature markets are now focusing on revenue stimulation and fighting churn through key competitive factors such as: price elasticity, network coverage, loyalty policy, quality of services, value added services and market segmentation."
Friday's the weekend is nearly here edition of Chatterbox.
Anyone who usedMuxtape- a neat little web tool for sharing short playlists of songs you owned with friends - knew it was going to be targeted by the litigious sectors of the music industry... so it wasn't really a surprise when itsuddenly disappeared last month.I tried contacting creator Justin Ouellette at the time to find out what was going on, but he kept quiet. Now, however, he's put apost up on the websiteexplaining the whole saga in detail - essentially saying that even though he was in licensing discussions with the record labels, the RIAA shut him down.Was he naive? Perhaps. But it felt like he'd cottoned onto something exciting, and it was certainly a shame to see it killed off so young (there's an open source equivalent calledOpenTape, but you have to host it yourself).Instead, Justin says he's relaunching the site as a tool for bands to spread their music with other people; "I didn't get into this to build a big company as fast as I could no matter what the cost, I got into this to make something simple and beautiful for people who love music, and I plan to continue doing that."
The manufacturer of BlackBerry smartphones upset Wall Street by delivering below-par profits last night, sparking concern that the economic downturn could be causing cutbacks in technology spending.Research in Motion announced a 72% jump in second-quarter profits to $495m. But the figure was below analysts' expectations and the Canadian company was cautious on its future profit margins.The figures were released after the closing bell but in unofficial after-hours trading, RIM's shares slumped 15% in a rare setback for a once high-flying stock.RIM's co-chief executive, Jim Balsillie, offered little hint of disappointment, describing the year as "extraordinary" for the company and its partners."Our enterprise business remains strong and our momentum in the consumer marketplace continues as we head into the holiday buying season," he said.The technology firm, which is based near Toronto, sold 11m of its popular phones during the first half of the year in spite of vigorous competition from Apple's iPhone. Its second-quarter revenue was up 88% to $2.58bn.RIM has struggled with a delay in the crucial US launch of its latest product, the BlackBerry Bold. Industry commentators said the company's prediction of a 47% gross margin in the next quarter was significantly short of anticipations."This is a surprise and not a positive one," said Peter Misek, an analyst at the Canadian brokerage firm Canaccord Adams. "Gross margin is way lower than we thought."Since the device's launch in 1997, the BlackBerry's emailing capability has turned it into a must-have gadget in the business world. RIM generates much of its revenue from corporate accounts but the company has insisted  it has seen little downturn resulting from the credit crunch and problems afflicting the financial services industry.
Remember back in April when Radioheadran a competition that let you remix their song Nude?The end results were, in some cases,stunning- and we're told more than 2,250 remixes were uploaded and listened to more than 1.7m times.The whole enterprise was so successful, in fact, that they've decided to do it again. Over atRadiohead Remix, they're offering up some of the parts of another track, Reckoner.buy the 'stems' from iTunesand then remix them in Garageband or Logic, and do whatever you like with them after that - putting them on the RR site, or on your own pages. So, even thoughthey're not on MySpace Musicyoucanput their music on MySpace.
A German computer gamer is being held in connection with the murder of a British university student after an apparent cyberspace dispute escalated into a killing.The 21-year-old from a town near Frankfurt is accused of travelling to the UK to murder Matthew Pyke, 20, who was found last Friday.Police are exploring the possibility that the two men fell out over Wars Central, Pyke's discussion forum.Pyke's girlfriend, Joanna Witton, discovered his body with several stab wounds at their Nottingham city centre flat. There were no signs of forced entry leading to police to believe the dead man may have known his killer.The two men are believed to have made contact via Pyke's forum, an internet site he ran with Witton.The suspect, who has not been named by police, was tracked through internet postings and arrested in Limburg-Weilburg, near Frankfurt, on Wednesday evening on suspicion of murder. Extradition proceedings are under way.A spokesman for Limburg-Weilburg police said: "A 21-year-old man from the rural area of Limburg was arrested by officers from the West Hessen police headquarters in H&uuml;nfelden. It is suspected that on September 19 he killed a man in Nottingham with a knife. After intensive investigations in collaboration with Nottinghamshire police it is believed the two got to know each other over the internet."Pyke, who was due to rejoin Nottingham Trent University next month after dropping out of a physics course, used the online alias of Shade to discuss tips on strategy, characters and plots for the Nintendo game, Advanced Wars. The game pits armies of cartoon characters against each other.The dead man was from Stowmarket, Suffolk, but moved to the city two years ago. On his MySpace page, Pyke listed his general interests as Guitar Hero, the Ace Attorney series, Gran Turismo 4, Metal Gear, Evil Genius, Unreal Tournament, Super Smash Bros, the Metroid series, adding "and that's just the video games".His parents, William and Kim, left a tribute on his Facebook site, reading: "Darling Matthew. We love you so much and miss you. You were a truly good, sensitive person. Your smile will live on in our hearts." The Wars Central forum was closed to new entries last night, but a post left by a gamer using the alias "Eggy" said: "I'm not normally at a loss for words but this is something where I just can't speak."
MySpace, the social networking site, last night launched its long-awaited music service, which offers millions of streaming tracks on demand in the US, and revealed plans to launch it worldwide. But it provoked a furious reaction from the largest independent record labels, which accused it of leaving them out in the cold.They claim that having built a user base of 120 million largely off the back of its reputation as a place to discover new music, it was "disappointing and astonishing" that the Newscorp-owned company had not offered them comparable terms to their major-label rivals.Among the artists that will be missing from the service at launch will be Arctic Monkeys, Radiohead, the White Stripes, Basement Jaxx, Arcade Fire, Dizzee Rascal and Vampire Weekend.The four majors that have signed up to the new service - Sony, Universal, Warner and EMI - have all received an equity stake in the venture, which in addition to advert-supported streaming tracks offers users the chance to buy downloads through Amazon."It is both disappointing and astonishing that MySpace, built on the music of independent artists and labels, should, now it has the majors as partners, choose to launch without those that have been at its heart, and whilst treating independents as second class-citizens," said Martin Mills, chairman of Beggars Group, the largest independent in the UK.
Autism experts, politicians, lawyers and civil rights campaigners are urging Jacqui Smith, the home secretary, to intervene in the case of the British hacker Gary McKinnon so that he can be tried in Britain rather than being extradited to the US.McKinnon, recently diagnosed with Asperger's syndrome (AS), has exhausted all legal challenges but Smith can intervene on compassionate grounds.McKinnon, 42, from north London, is accused of hacking into US military and Nasa computers and causing $700,000 damage. Having lost appeals against extradition to the House of Lords and the European court of human rights, he could be extradited to the US any day.Karen Todner, his solicitor, said yesterday that she was still waiting to hear from the home secretary regarding a plea that he be allowed to stand trial in the UK."I hope that she will be brave enough to make the right decision or, at the very least, ensure that he would be allowed to serve his entire term in this country," said Todner.Autism specialists are also calling on Smith to exercise her discretionary right. "I believe Gary to be 'guilty' of having AS," said Dr Luke Beardon, senior lecturer in autism at the autism centre at Sheffield Hallam University."That he hacked into the Pentagon is apparent; it is also crystal clear to me that he did this as a direct result of following the obsessional interest which drives him, with no malicious intent to harm the computers or any human beings whatsoever."Sir John Stanley, Tory MP for Tonbridge and Malling, wrote to Smith earlier this month expressing his concern about the "one-sided nature" of the UK-US extradition agreement.Campaigners are due to protest against the extradition outside the US embassy in London on Sunday.
According to brainiacs in Brussels, more and more people in Europe areditching their landline telephones in favour of going purely mobile. You might be one of them: around a fifth of households in Western Europe now operate this way, apparently, and for every 100 landlines, there are 112 mobiles. But is that progress? Dropping your landline might make sense in terms of cost - certainly for cash-strapped families lower down the earnings ladder. But losing your landline also means forgoing a broadband internet connection (and I'm not convinced that mobile 3G counts). Where does that fit intoGordon Brown's vision of broadband Britain?
Yesterday I shared afew little tipson how to get more out of the Guardian's Technology website. Today I thought I'd talk a little bit about one of the little bits of magic baked in to the Guardian's website: RSS. In the old days we supported RSS in a number of ways, but today pretty much every page on the site has a webfeed associated with it.That allows you to do plenty of stuff, not least subscribe to updates inGoogle Reader, or another RSS reading program.By taking a look through ourA-Z list of technology subjects, you can go and find RSS feeds for every category of story that appears on the Guardian's Technology pages - but that's not all.There are also feeds for every contributor, via their profile page: if you want to see everything I write, for example, you could subscribe to the feed fromguardian.co.uk/profile/bobbiejohnson.Or you can subscribe to get the latest updates to our regular columns and series - like our Technophile review slot - by picking up the feed fromguardian.co.uk/technology/series/technophile.There's another little trick which allows you to roll your own RSS feeds which scan for activity involving two different keywords. So, imagine you want to find every article about Microsoft thatalsoinvolves computer security - just take the two relevant tags and add them together with a plus sign:guardian.co.uk/technology/microsoft+security.Everything mentioned earlier still applies, so you can use contributor tags. If you want to see everything Charles writes about Apple (profile/charlesarthur+apple), or you want to see posts on the technology blog written by Jemima, you can takeguardian.co.uk/profile/jemimakiss+technology/blog.You can also add in a series or column. For example, say you want to listen out for any edition of the Tech Weekly podcast (which lives atguardian.co.uk/technology/series/techweekly) whichalsomentions Google (guardian.co.uk/technology/google). Then you wantthis page.And you can combine feeds from anywhere on the Guardian site, sometimes coming up with odd - and interesting results - such as tracking down everything that Richard Williams, our chief sports writer,writes about films.One RSS request we've had from readers since we changed the blog design is to offer full-fat feeds with none of those annoying attempts to make you click through to our website. That's the way we already deliver feeds of our main technology news and comment articles, and we're working on bringing that across to everything we produce.Tomorrow:Contributor profile and user pages
ThinkPanmure analyst Vijay Rakesh has pointed out thatAmazon's listof best-selling laptops is now dominated by netbooks or minibooks such as the 8.9 inch Acer Aspire One (currently No 1) and Aus Eee PC (currently Nos 2 and 4). Apple doesn't appear in the top 10 except for the fifth-placed 13.3 inch MacBook, which is three times the price of the Acer Aspire One.According toCult of Mac: "This is an abrupt change from the past, where Apple had been a mainstay" of the list.The site quotes Rakesh as saying: "We believe this to be the effects of a more price-conscious consumer and global slowdown."Price is no doubt a factor, of course. In the back-to-school season, it may also be that people just want smaller, more portable, more convenient machines, and Apple doesn't offer any. It has never made a subnotebook (unless you count the Newton MessagePads and/or eMate), and the feature-deficient MacBook Air is bigger, heavier, and much more expensive that a typical netbook.Cult of Mac says:As a result, Rakesh lowered the target on Apple to $170 from $200 per share and fiscal fourth quarter estimates to $7.8 billion from $7.9 billion.Apple's first fiscal quarter of 2009 will likely be $10.8 billion, down from the $11.5 billion previous estimated, according to the analyst.AsBarron'snotes, Rakesh also cut his targets on Intel. It says:Intel is addressing the netbook market with its Atom processor, so the company is not being cut out of the food chain; but Rakesh notes that Atom processors sell at much lower price points and carry thinner gross margins. The Atom, he notes, sells for $20-$40 and carries a 45% gross margin, while the Core2Duo sells for $140-$250 and carries a gross margin of 56%.Microsoft is in a similar position. The top netbooks on Amazon's list are running Windows XP (the first Linux machine is at No 7), but Microsoft probably makes about half as much on a ULCPC deal as it would if someone bought a Vista laptop.Still, it would not be wise to get hysterical about this. First, Amazon is a very poor guide to what people are actually buying (which is Dell and HP notebooks, as a matter of fact). It could easily be affected by Mac buyers buying more from Apple or Apple stores instead of from Amazon.Second, it's not yet clear how many people are buying netbooks instead of mainstream laptops, rather than as second or third machines. If they're substitutes, suppliers are taking a hit; but if they are incremental sales, they're benefiting. I expect it's a bit of both….It's much like the shift from desktops to laptops, and as I pointed outback in March, suppliers just have to do well enough for the extra sales from new platforms to outweigh the lost sales from old ones. "That's not necessarily easy, but nor is it the end of the world."
I'm confused about this whole Spore situation. Right now, there are lots of articles likethis oneon ZDNet claiming that the backlash against the game's Draconian digital rights management may mean an end to the whole concept of DRM. If you've not kept up to date on all this, the game uses a pimped version of the SecuROM system, and among other 'features' limits the number of computers a purchaser can install the game on (originally to three, now five). It initially also required regular online validation, although EA laterconceded to public pressureand amended the requirements, so that validation is only needed when downloading updates.The backlash has indeed been messy. There have been a lot of protest ratings on Amazon - seemingly the gamer's positive action of choice these days. There's also been aclass action lawsuit, targeting EA's non-disclosure of the SecuROM installation. And more ironically, there have been a heck of a lot of illegal downloads - over 500,000 according to arecent piece in the Washington Post, which may make it the most pirated game ever. So it would seem EA has lost on every front.Except it hasn't. The publisher announced yesterday that it has sold over a million copies since the game's launch. Okay, that's not up there with GTA IV, but then Spore is a game about evolution and the nature of existence rather than about shooting people and running over hookers. There's been lots of bad PR, but it has mostly been contained within the hardcore fraternity. To most people invasive DRM is no different to the hundreds of other pop-ups and warning windows that arrive uninvited on their PC desktops every day, demanding updates, registrations, installations and passwords. Just another barrier to click through in order to get to the software itself. And of course, the whole music download industry has already turned us into zombie consumer cattle, slavishly accepting bizarre re-use restrictions on our MP3s. Wait a minute did I sayourMP3s? Christ, what a naive Luddite. Ownership is so over.DRM is our fault, of course. We accept invasive registration and installation requirements, we have accepted the restrictive downloads foisted on us by music download sites, and, yep, we do love bittorrent. Regardless of the Spore, Mass Effect and Bioshock controversies, game publishers will probably take the PR hit because it doesn't affect the mainstream user - the one all the expensive ads are targeted at. Of course, the 500,000 illegal downloads might do more damage, but then will EA think 's**t everyone hates DRM, let's scrap it', or 's**t, our DRM's not good enough, let's make it tougher'?
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Next time you're in Sainsbury's picking up essential supplies (ie those 200g bars of Belgian dark chocolate with whole hazelnuts*), you might just be tempted to add aMedion Akoya Mini E1210to your basket for £299.99.The Mini E1210 has a 10 inch display, 1.6GHz Intel Atom processor, 1GB of memory and an 80GB hard drive. It also has a webcam, a built-in microphone, and a good set of ports including three USB ports. It's Windows XP only, but various people have loaded it with different operating systems, including Mac OS X.It seems to be a Medion-made variant of the MSI Wind/PCW Advent 4211 but with draft 802.11b/g/n Wi-Fi and no Bluetooth.We'd expected this machine at £279.99, so if you want one, it may pay to shop around. The extra £20 buys quite a lot of chocolate.* Not Ritter Sport, but the name escapes me, due to not eating enough of them…
Google's "internet evangelist" Vint Cerf has been in the UK and in the headlines this week, visiting the British Computer Society andThe Guardian, among others. Both the Times and the Telegraph have picked up the scary "news" that theInternet will run out of IP addresses by 2010, warns Vint Cerf, or just a touch less accurately,Father of the internet: 'web is running out of addresses'.It is certainly true that IPv4 (Internet Protocol version 4) is running out of addresses, because technically it only supports 4 billion of them (2^32). However, we saw this coming at least 16 years ago, and the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) adopted Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) way back in 1996. This provides up to 2^128 addresses (340 trillion trillion trillion), which means there's well over 4 billion addresses for everybody on the planet. Indeed, according toWikipedia, IPv6 can provide 2^52 addresses for each of the 70 sextillion observable stars in the known universe, which I think may constitute "comfortable headroom" even for a pan-galactic internet.Further, most of us already have computers that can support IPv6, without even downloading an update. IBM's Unix started offering IPv6 support in 1997, and most other versions soon had IPv6 available.Microsofthad an experimental stack in 1998, it has been part of Windows XP SP1 and Windows Server since 2002, and it's the default in Windows Vista.Ciscoalso started introducing IPv6 support for routers in 2001.The problem is getting people to change over. Plenty of organisations don't seem to want to change anything until they don't have a choice, which will be when they finally start to run out of IPv4 addresses. Estimates vary as to when this might be. However, it could be as early as 2010, andas Vint said in 2006: "I think we will start to see some real pressure around 2008". It looks more likely to happen in Asia – where internet use is exploding – than in Europe or the USA.The transition will probably involve "dual stack" versions of IP that support both IPv6 and IPv4. So if you want to help Vint Cerf push IPv6 along, be sure to ask whether your router ("internet modem") supports IPv6 before you hand over any cash.It should, of course, be possible to flash the firmware in a router to add IPv6 support – assuming there is enough room on the chip. However, boycotting anything that only supports IPv4 is the simplest and strongest way to get the message across. And it could save you having to buy another router in a couple of years.
Google has just photographed my road and caught me on camera as well. I have emailed them to say that they do not have my permission to use my image. Do you have any details on how to stop this ridiculous breach of privacy?Samantha SamuelIt's perfectly legal to photograph people on the street - CCTV cameras do it all the time - as long as it's not for commercial gain. In any case, the UK's independent Information Commissioner's Office has already given Google the go-ahead to take photographs for its Street View service. It said: "Although it is possible that in certain limited circumstances an image may allow the identification of an individual, it is clear that Google are keen to capture images of streets and not individuals" (PDF).Google has developed a system for blurring numberplates and faces and in difficult cases can remove someone altogether. It also provides what the commissioner said was "an easy mechanism by which individuals can report an image that causes them concern to Google and request that it is removed". You don't write in. You find the image online and click Street View Help in the top right hand corner of the image window. Then you select "Report inappropriate image" and fill in the form.
I am a self-employed accountant, and my Microsoft Outlook emails contain important advice or comments that I would like to be able to organise and store on my hard drive for future reference. At present, I keep all my emails in my in and sent boxes. I occasionally save individual emails in client folders with Word documents etc but they become overpopulated.Keith KnowlesThere are lots of add-ons for Outlook, and the one that sounds most suitable is QuickFile 4Outlook (addins4outlook.com), which you can try as shareware. There is a special version for lawyers that's also worth a look: it may meet your needs, and there's an online demo (outlook4lawyers.com).A newer plug-in is Xobni, which is 'Inbox' backwards (xobni.com). This is less oriented towards files and more about managing relationships (clients).Another solution is AskSam (asksam.com), which limits your exposure to scary Outlook PST file problems. I've mentioned it a few times, but often feel I must be the only user. It's a sort of free-form database into which you can chuck almost anything: emails, Word documents, PDF files, web pages, spreadsheets etc. You then have one file per project (or client), which allows fast, sophisticated searching. There's a 30-day trial version. You'd probably find you loved it or hated it within 30 hours.However, nowadays, it's probably easier just to sort files into lots of subdirectories and useGoogle Desktop Search.Backchat: Andy Slade says my answer seems over-complicated, adding: "Outlook will allow Keith to do what he wants by a simple configuration: for each of his required group of emails he can create a PST folder with a location at a convenient place on his hard drive. Then, using the Rules Wizard, make sure that the appropriate emails are directed to these folders. In this way he has an organised arrangement for his emails that are automatically saved in as many files as he wishes on his hard drive. These can be restored when he wishes and can be turned 'off' when he no longer requires them."
What is the best way to set up an email account for our proto-teen daughter?John PageTry ZooBuh, which has versions for small kids and teens (teens.zoobuh.com). This lets you set up incoming and outgoing contacts lists, have mail copied to a parent and remove images and links from incoming mail. After 30 days, it costs $1 per month per child.An alternative is KidMail (kidmail.net), which recommends IncrediMail (incredimail.com) for older children (ages 9-12). IncrediMail offers lots of elaborate graphics and sound effects but requires a Windows software download and is paid for by advertising.Yahoo also offersFamily Accountsthat can include children under 13.
Why does Adobe Reader always open in the My Documents folder instead of one I choose?Frank ShackletonI don't know of a way round this except by never using Adobe Reader's file open dialogue. You don't need to open PDF files: just find them in Windows Explorer then double-click them.You can find files quickly and easily in Windows Explorer by adding selected folders to your list of Favorites. Put them in the My Computer folder and use the mouse to move this to the top of the list.If you can't see how to do this, go to Start, select Run, type infavoritesand click OK. Then go to the menu, click Favorites, and choose Add to Favorites.
If "liliputers" are becoming more widespread and more useful, which is the most Linux-friendly printer manufacturer?Nick FisherMost "liliputers" (mini-books or netbooks or subnotebooks) are sold with either Windows XP or Linux. For the Linux ones, theLinux Foundationsuggests Epson or Hewlett-Packard models, but says: "The recommendations do not necessarily mean that these printers will be automatically recognised and configured by your distribution, merely that the printer can be made to work well with Free Software."
I can no longer defrag Windows XP. Apparently, MMC cannot open dfrg.msc. How can I restore it, or is there a decent (free) defragger I can download?Mike CalvertThe simplest fix may be to download the latest copy of the MMC management console. Go tohttp://support.microsoft.com/kb/907265, look for the "Windows XP, x86-based versions" section and downloadWindowsXP-KB907265-x86-ENU.exe.There are, however, several free defraggers. These includeDiskeeper Lite(an old but free version of a commercial product),Auslogics Disk Defrag, and the open sourceJkDefrag.
How to deal with piratesI read with great interest how Cliff Harris went from "being demoralised by pirates to [being] inspired by them" (Developers face up to the pirates, September 11). As Bobbie Johnson rightly points out, Harris's tactic shows a more progressive attitude than the "large stick and small carrot" approach adopted by much of the entertainment industry. It is clear that pirates cannot always be beaten, so why not join them? As other entertainment industries have demonstrated, online distribution does not always equate to loss of revenue. If games publishers were prepared to approach online distribution with the same level of innovation they bring to game development, consumers will be able to play for free while the industry continues to profit.Ariel Napchi,HIRO MediaGiven changes in technology and formats, I think a nosedive was inevitable for music. The industry's fight against piracy does, however, help determine the angle of that nosedive.coolfer.com/blogMost of us know that the internet is for sharing. But it seems to me that some of these pirates want more than their fair share of the pie.cathlawson.com/blogI've long held that piracy occurs mainly because publishers (not creatives) fail to engage with the full range of potential customers. Recent legal cases totally miss the point about piracy by actively punishing potential consumers and creating animosity. It will, I am prepared to suggest, lead to more, not less piracy.blog.david.bailey.netI'm with the pirates on this, though. Most games are just not worth the price. Usually it's because they were thrown out to the market before they were what they could have been because of the time constraints the publishers put on the developers. It's not just a product, it's an art in its own right, and the fact they have to "Hollywood" the industry for pure profit turns them into what they're not, toys. It's like rushing out a book: it just ruins the story when you have to cut content and revise the vision it was intended to be, all for the sake of $$.applegeeks.comGold in the virtual hillsSounds far too easy, doesn't it? (Getting on to the virtual property ladder, September 11). That's what I thought, but then I saw how much money people are making. A domain name costs as little as &pound;10, you spend a couple of hours improving the site, then sell it on ebay for &pound;50 upwards. Imagine how many you could buy and sell a day! Big bucks to be made ... I feel an experiment forming!philiphowlett.blogspot.comWhy Apple won't biteMusic subscriptions do not work (Apple updates its iPods but leaves audience asking for more, September 11). That is why Apple has not announced one. It's a business model doomed not to succeed: ask Napster. People want to keep thier music and not be tied to some monthly payment. I can see why Apple is steering clear.Stephen Hooker, RotherhamRingmaster at workChairman Bill is using Jerry Seinfeld to try and connect with real people using Windows Vista (Jack Schofield, September 11). Sad to say, the ads aren't working for me. On a side note, Bill Gates is ageing well. Better than Steve Jobs, anyway.rightonblog.comLarge benefits of LHCThe LHC could be the nexus or the springboard for the next generation technology BOOM and a great enhancer of the lives of our children and, hopefully, including us, if scientific discoveries arrive on time and at affordable costs (Newly asked questions, September 11).prudentinvestornewsletters.blogspot.com&#183;Read all this week's letters in full atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technologyWrite to:Letters TechnologyGuardian119 Farringdon RoadLondon EC1R 3ERTelephone:020 7239 9925Fax:020 7239 9933Email:tech@guardian.co.ukEdited by Charles Arthur
The problem facing physical newspapers is how people will be reading them in five years time, if indeed at all. A steady decline in the "paper" versions has been offset by a huge switch to the web. Some 18 months ago, I reviewed a US version of Sony's e-reader (recently launched in the UK). Although its size was limiting for reading newspapers, I was so bowled over by how pleasant it was to read books that I entered a balancing comment saying it probably wouldn't work on a beach. The next morning an email came from Australia saying "it works fine on Bondi, mate". Since then a string of similar devices - Amazon's Kindle, iLiad and Cybook Gen 3 - have emerged, all offering a good reading experience for books.When I noticed that the first of the next generation of reading devices, manufactured by Plastic Logic, had been very well received at a demo in the US, I hopped on to a train to the Cambridge Science Park to see an updated version of something that has been in development for years, after being spun out of Cambridge's Cavendish Laboratory. The big breakthrough is that instead of using glass and silicon, it uses plastic - which is cheaper, lighter, more scaleable and can bend. You can drop it without fear of it breaking. The prototype had a screen size of 210mm x 160mm, somewhat smaller than the space occupied by the type on a typical page of the Guardian's G2 section. They claim it is nearly three times the size of a Kindle, yet about the same weight.There are no buttons, apart from a home key, and only a tiny USB port (to sideload documents from a computer) on the side. It was easy to turn pages and navigate by pressing the screen. It was frustrating not to have web access, but assuming that gets sorted as early production devices roll out this month, then it will be possible to download an entire newspaper and read it in a way that almost mimics normal reading experience. The battery life is several weeks. Like other devices employing e-ink, it only uses power when the pages are turned. This gives a slight flash of black that you get used to, but which might be irritating to some. It will be in the shops next year priced "competitively" with other e-book readers.The target market is mobile professionals wanting to load all the documents and spreadsheets they carry around in briefcases on to one device. It is not competing with devices such as the BlackBerry - though it can do email synchronisation and can store anything that would normally be output to a printer. Newspapers around the world have been showing a strong interest, particularly in France.The problem is that since it is not a substitute for a phone or a computer, you have to carry an extra device around. People may not be prepared to do that for a newspaper, though PlasticLogic claims it is not an extra device but a substitute, since you don't have to carry the paper versions around. It offers the prospect of being able to charge for a newspaper or fund it by advertisements that could be targeted to a reader's personal tastes. I could see myself using one if I were already carrying a briefcase around. But, sadly, the market newspapers are losing to the net - web-savvy youngsters used to free news delivered in chunks - are unlikely to buy another device to read the whole paper. Older people might. Smaller devices using the same e-ink are likely later.The company, backed by more than $200m (&pound;108m) of venture capital, is the latest success from the Cambridge Science Park and marks the first major British entry into the e-book market. Unlike UK dotcom startups of a decade ago, this venture will start life as a fully fledged international company with its HQ in the US, manufacturing facilities in Germany (Dresden) and a research base in Cambridge. We are at last learning the rudiments of international success.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;This article was amended on Saturday September 27 2008.  The first of the next generation of reading devices was developed by Plastic Logic, not EasyPlastic as we said in the article above. This has been corrected.
The Filter wants to be the aggregator's aggregator, tapping into your brain to suggest music and videos on the basis of your tastes. So far, soLast.fm, and music-sharing is certainly the site's most developed element - film and video features are in fledgling states, while the TV recommendation service has yet to launch.Start the signup process and you're asked to pigeonhole your tastes into a handful of vague genres (you can skip this if the prospect is too traumatic). You can also integrate your Last.fm and Flixster profiles - or pinch someone else's as no password is required. There's no security risk with this, but it keeps things rather impersonal.There are both PC and Mac desktop applications as well as a mobile version that works with some Nokia phones. Like the Genius function Apple added to iTunes 8, the desktop application creates playlists based on what you're listening to. Unlike Genius, The Filter also offers to use the genre rather than the song to generate a playlist. How worthwhile this is depends on how you categorise your music. There are a few other options to help tailor the process, such as the Popularity Booster, which takes sales figures into account.You can also rate everything you view on the website, influencing future recommendations, and once you've started to build up a profile, you'll be offered personalised lists of "what everyone's into now". But if you want to search for something you'll need to know what it is - a band, an album title, a film - as there's no general undefined search option, so it's no good just picking up a word or two from the radio or in the pub unless you're prepared to engage in some tedious trial and error. In theory, The Filter mashes together some of the best elements of Last.fm, Flixster and critical aggregators likeRottenTomatoes.com. It has the potential to be great, but only once it ups its game.The web video section in particular leaves much to be desired. Something of a poor man's YouTube, it recommends videos that aren't family-friendly (such as Show Me Your Genitals Pt. 2, a sweary, sexually explicit rap) without any prior warning. And while The Filter offers some useful functions, the content it's shown me has failed to enter exciting new territory. Last.fm constantly turns up new artists I wouldn't otherwise discover. For now, The Filter fails to compete.Pros:Blends useful bits of other aggregators; PC and Mac versionsCons:Content lacks breadth; fails to flag up adult contentthefilter.com
Because people hated it so much they were giving the game foul ratings on Amazon. And no publisher can stand aloof from that in this connected age. Especially not when it has virtually bet the company on its game's success.The problem began when Electronic Arts (EA), mindful of the game's production cost - estimated at between $50m (bit.ly/spore2) and $80m (bit.ly/spore3) - decided that it really needed to keep the pirates at bay. To break even, it needs to sell somewhere between 5m and 8m copies of the game.To that end, and mindful of its statistics which showed that 75% of people install and play a given game on only one machine, and less than 1% ever try to play on more than three different machines, EA built in restrictions so that you had to verify the licence online, and could only install it three times before you'd have to call EA and persuade them to let you install it once more - basically, like verifying Windows XP or Vista. And each copy could only have one screen name associated with its licence key - something of a downer for people who play in families.To some people this seemed too much of a pain to be worth bothering with, so when hackers managed to find a way around those restrictions and uploaded a DRM-free version on to a bittorrent network, it did fantastically well. Unfortunately for EA, more than half a million copies have been downloaded, making it probably the most rapidly pirated game in history.People also expressed their ire in other ways: of 2,900 reviews on Amazon US, 2,500 were just one star - solely over the licensing restrictions. Is that likely to encourage people to buy it?So last Friday, EA capitulated. It released a patch to fix some small glitches and also to install it on up to five computers (or five times) - though that isn't actually mentioned in the update details. And each licence can have up to five screen names.Why? Frank Gibeau, president of EA Games, said: "We've received complaints from a lot of customers who we recognise and respect. And while it's easy to discount the noise from those who only want to post or transfer thousands of copies of the game on the internet, I believe we need to adapt our policy to accommodate our legitimate consumers."EA had to move fast, because any further lost sales through piracy or bad reviews might become self-reinforcing. EA's share price has been heading south since mid-August, and is presently at a five-year low; that's not too important, but it has made a loss in three out of the past four quarters - which is.Billy Pidgeon, an analyst with IDC, said: "A lot of [people who complain] share cracked software and won't be happy with any solution. In the end, this will blow over because Spore is a fun game, and people will want to try it."
British voters have been allowed to watch their elected representatives on television since 1989, and on the web since 2002.  But when it comes to making footage available for re-use in the web 2.0 age, Parliament seems stuck in the mindset that landed the great agitator William Cobbett in hot water when he first published its proceedings two centuries ago.While proceedings are open to free viewing, any re-use is subject to licensing by the Speaker of the House of Commons. This states that material "must not be hosted on a searchable website and must not be downloadable". The reason for the restriction, Helen Goodman, parliamentary secretary to the House of the Commons, told MPs earlier this year, "is to ensure that it is not re-edited or reused inappropriately for campaigning or satirical purposes".Web activist charity MySociety is challenging this position in the latest phase of its campaign to open government up on the web. With the help of a small army of volunteers, it has created a searchable library of video clips of MPs speaking in the Commons, indexed by name and subject, on its website,theyworkforyou.com.So far, says Steinberg, "they haven't kicked up a fuss". One reason may be that some individual MPs like the idea: on the site's roll of honour, name number 82 is that of Tom Watson MP, a ministerial advocate of free data.More battles may lie ahead, however. Another MySociety venture, the freedom of information clearing-house sitewhatdotheyknow.com, has had a head-on collision with Parliament over the issue of copyright. A request for information made through Whatdotheyknow has been refused because "the material could not be posted on the whatdotheyknow web pages without breaching copyright".The decision, which is being contested by MySociety, has been referred for an internal review. Steinberg says the situation is absurd."Parliament is supposed to be the home of the core of transparency and accountability, yet sometimes it seems to be the least responsive and least culturally open of the 100,000 bodies covered by Freedom of Information."&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog
Proselytisation of the cult of Wikipedia has reached new heights. Jimmy Wales, co-founder of Wikipedia, has joined a speaker's agency (amusingly, he's advertised just above Karl Rove). Note that he keeps all fees, which can exceed $50,000 (&pound;27,000), maintaining that such engagements "are inviting me in my personal capacity" (bit.ly/seth8).His pitch (bit.ly/seth9) starts: "Imagine a world in which every single person is given free access to the sum of all human knowledge ... To create and distribute a free encyclopedia of the highest possible quality to every single person on the planet in their own language - That's who I am. That's what I am doing. That's my life goal."But history tells a different story, one extensively entangled with commercial goals and ad-supported websites. An old "Overview" page (bit.ly/seth10) at Wikipedia states: "Originally all of Wikipedia was at the .com address. Bomis, the company owned by Wikipedia patron Jimbo Wales, hoped to make Wikipedia profitable, or at least cover the costs of operation, so it was at least theoretically a commercial operation. At one point, Jimbo was planning on placing unobtrusive advertisements on Wikipedia, but that plan has since been completely abandoned."In the early days, nobody foresaw how successful Wikipedia would become. The structural turning point seems have been the 2002 departure of Wikipedia co-founder Larry Sanger (bit.ly/seth11). With costs reduced, Wales wrote: "All plans to put advertising of any kind on the wikipedia is called off for now. We will move forward with plans for a nonprofit foundation ..." (bit.ly/seth12). Basically, it was a small side project which then became popular far beyond imagining - primarily, I believe, as a result of a quirk in Google's search ranking algorithm, a little-discussed factor.Nowadays, Wales often presents Wikipedia as a precursor or prototype for his venture capital-backed startup company, Wikia Inc. Note that the for-profit Wikia has no significant financial connection to Wikipedia's owner, the nonprofit Wikipedia Foundation. However, Wikia derives enormous intangible benefit from the name recognition and mental associations of Wikipedia.Wikia is sometimes summarised with the slogan "Wikipedia is the Encyclopedia. Wikia is the rest of the library." But libraries are not dedicated to making profits by selling advertising on every page of their books while having authors write the books for free (How will Wikia cope when the workers all quit the plantation?, July 31,bit.ly/seth13).A recent article (bit.ly/seth14) in Trader Monthly Magazine provides a particularly blunt business analysis, one that contrasts strikingly with the evangelist glurge often found in press articles. It describes Wales's previous failed entrepreneurial ventures, leading to "... his effort to take the success - and, indeed, the underlying philosophy - of Wikipedia, and commercialise the hell out of it".It's informative to observe how long Wales has been pursuing a strategy of selling advertising around other people's work. Some observers see a journalistic cheap irony in Jimmy Wales being philosophically an Objectivist (the fanatically capitalist intellectualism created by Ayn Rand). Supposedly this is in contradiction with the altruism that motivates massive amounts of free labour.In fact, Wales speaks a language of corporate collectivism that would not be out of place in Rand's novels. Hyperbolically, it's where docile workers express joy that wonderful capitalists have provided the means of production, enabling glorious collective enterprises such as a laissez-faire market. This sounds strange to people who don't know about esoteric business-worshipping ideologies, and so mistakenly assume that phrases like "collective action" automatically indicate communism. Just think of a viewpoint which regards a powerless proletariat labouring to produce wealth for owners as being the highest social achievement, and the connections should be clearer.Beware corporate executives posing as social visionaries. The hype may be about the fulfillment of human potential, but the reality is the exploitation of digital sharecropping.sethf.com/infothought/blog
The winner of the main event of the World Series of Poker Europe, which started last week and which players pay &pound;10,000 to enter, will not be a poker bot.Even if one could enter, no-limit Texas Hold'em at this level is beyond current levels of processing power and research. But in July, programs developed by the University of Alberta's Computer Poker Research Group, just about licked a team of top poker professionals.This was the first tournament victory against professionals for Polaris, the collective name for the Research Group's bots. The score was close: three wins to Polaris, two to the pros, and one draw.Military intelligencePoker offers a well-defined domain in which to investigate some fundamental issues in computing science, such as how to handle deliberate misinformation and how to make intelligent guesses based on partial knowledge. The obvious applications - besides poker tournaments - are business and the military.A byproduct of this is that technology will improve standards of play in poker. "Computer programs are going to teach a ton of stuff to humans," says Dr Darse Billings, former lead architect of the University of Alberta's poker software bots and now consultant to the project. "Humans don't actually play poker very well." There are precedents: backgammon was transformed once computer analysis revealed that intuitive strategies were wrong; and chess openings have also changed as a result of computers.Humans are already learning a lot by developing their poker game with technology. The winner of the World Series is likely to be young: last year's champion, pocketing &pound;1m, was Annette Obrestad, an 18-year-old Norwegian. Grizzled veterans don't dominate because they're outnumbered by younger online players, who can learn much more quickly than the old school ever could. In a casino, a dealer will deal between 30 and 40 hands per hour. Online, it's around 100. Also, most online players play multiple games simultaneously. John Tabatabai, the 22-year-old runner-up in last year's World Series, finds playing six games at a time easy and aims to play 50,000 hands a month.Online players also hone their skills with computer simulations and data-mining, analysing their own and opponents' play. Programs like PokerTracker track every hand you play, so you can determine optimal starting hands dependent on your position in relation to the dealer and the playing characteristics of your opponents.This "development by experience" is converging with the ideas and analysis of game theory practitioners. Andy Bloch and Chris Ferguson, who have both won several million dollars as professional players, have developed game theory-based computer simulations to model thousands of poker hands. Ferguson became a big tournament winner with very little tournament experience, because of the edge he'd got. Bloch was a member of one of the MIT blackjack card-counting teams that won millions from the Las Vegas casinos. The story was told in the book Bringing down the House and the film 21.Most poker games can be converted to linear programs, says Bloch, and then solved using algorithms. Simple game theory is useful for bluffing. He considers a psychological understanding of a poker situation in live play as "an additional variable in the equation - not that I'm actually working out an equation, but sometimes I am".Ferguson, who has a PhD in computer science from UCLA, has written several research papers on game theory in poker with his father, a maths professor at UCLA. His research shows that the correct hands to bet on are your best and worst hands, and that you should bet on your bad hands approximately one third of the time. Which, it turns out, is what most successful tournament players do. "The intuitive player comes up with the same strategy in most situations that the mathematical player comes up with. They just come at it differently," Ferguson says.Don't tellBloch and Ferguson are less gung-ho than Billings about computers teaching humans about poker. "I think humans play pretty well," says Ferguson. "They're much better at taking advantage of mistakes by their opponents. Computers aren't very good at doing that. Computers aren't good at reading tells [unconscious body language indicating how good the player's hand is], but they make up for that by not being readable themselves."So where does all this leave ordinary online players worried that poker bots will take their money? The work that the Alberta team has put into Polaris should allay some fears - modelling Hold'em involves addressing the quintillion (million million million) states of the game.However, at a very low online level, bots do play, and they might beat you. But it's estimated it takes about 2,500 programming hours to get an off-the-shelf bot up to earning &pound;3 an hour.Says Billings: "If there are programmers who are really sharp, at both programming and poker, then it is conceivable to write a bot that can win. But someone that smart can take a hell of a lot more money legitimately than by writing a poker bot."
On the plus side, Namco's latest tennis-fest certainly looks the business with Rafa, Roger &amp; co lending their likenesses and extensive options to design and train your player from scratch. Alas, the problems begin at 0:0 in the first set, when sloppy mechanics render all this effort largely superfluous. Running down balls only to find your player refusing to swing, or striking down the middle when you wanted it on the tramline soon becomes infuriating. And the AI is just as maverick; your opponent sticking doggedly to the baseline yet almost unbeatable when he ventures to the net. It all makes for a game that looks good in highlights but never feels fun to play. Pity.
Someone at Nintendo must have leftfield tastes in electronic music. How else to explain the Korg DS-10 which, while it isn't a game, is one of the finest toys ever created. It's a perfect reconstruction of the Korg MS-10 - an analogue, monophonic synthesizer that has had rave reviews ever since it arrived in 1978. The DS-10 is slightly better than the MS-10: while it faithfully recreates the former's sound, it has a Kaos Pad interface which the MS-10 lacked. As well as a virtual keyboard and sequencers galore, it has knob-and-pinboard patch panels for tweaking synth and even drum sounds to near-destruction. As it lets you combine two synth sequences and a drum track, it basically lets you conjure up electro-techno tracks from thin air in a matter of minutes.
One Sunday in July, the images began to wink out on the popular micro-blogging service Twitter. The photo-sharing site SmugMug flashed up "Service unavailable". Jungle Disk, which advertises "Reliable online storage", stopped working. The reason: Amazon's Simple Storage Service, known as S3, went offline for up to eight hours. It was the second significant outage this year, following a similar but shorter incident in February.Amazon S3 is a celebrated example of cloud computing, meant to be the wave of the future. "Using Amazon's S3 has about the same cost and complexity as hosting the images ourselves, but we had thought that the reliability of Amazon would be significantly higher. But that now seems wrong," said Lukas Biewald, who runs an image assessment service called FaceStat (bit.ly/cloudy2). Failures like this have a domino effect, and the more cloud computing catches on, the bigger the impact. Amazon does offer a service level agreement, but reimbursed fees are small compensation for loss of business.So what is cloud computing? "There's a lot of confusion because everyone is tagging what they do with the word 'cloud'. It's the buzzword of the moment," says Tony Lucas, chief executive of XCalibre, a UK ISP which has created an on-demand computing service called FlexiScale (flexiscale.com).Somewhere, nowhereFor some people, cloud computing simply means that their stuff is out there on the internet instead of being on a laptop or office server. A classic example is Google Mail - along with the word processing, spreadsheet and calendar applications called Google Apps - which can be used from any web browser. If your computer is stolen, the data remains safe on the net. Research shows that, at least in North America, 69% of web users make some use of such applications (bit.ly/cloudy3).Google's Chrome browser and its mobile phone operating system, called Android, are developed specifically to enable cloud computing. Features in Chrome include desktop shortcuts to websites, a fast scripting engines and a set of extensions called Gears which allow web applications, when suitably coded, to continue working even when offline (see panel).But cloud computing is not just about web applications. The idea behind businesses like FlexiScale is that instead of setting up their own computing infrastructure, businesses purchase it in the same way that they buy electricity and gas. The implications are far-reaching, and the industry giants are jostling for position. On August 1, IBM announced a $360m (&pound;194m) data centre in North Carolina "to enable IBM to deliver Cloud Computing capabilities to clients". A few days earlier, HP, Intel and Yahoo had announced a joint test bed for cloud computing research and education. Dell has nabbed the URLcloudcomputing.comfor its Data Center Solutions and tried (unsuccessfully) to register "Cloud Computing" as a trademark.Amazon, already a web retailing giant, is also a cloud computing pioneer. S3, launched in March 2006, behaves like an infinitely expandable hard drive. Developers can store and retrieve data without needing to worry about where it is physically located. "S3 now has 14bn objects and 30,000 transactions a second," Jeff Barr of Amazon told a conference in London earlier this year. Later in 2006, S3 was joined by the Elastic Compute Cloud, or EC2, which lets users create virtual computers on the fly. "You build a structure called an AMI, an Amazon Machine Image, and on that AMI you put your operating system, your applications and any data that you would like," Barr says. "You take that whole AMI, copy it to S3, then we can launch one, 10, 50, however many you like." Amazon bills customers for virtual computers by the hour, and also charges for data storage and internet data transfer (amazon.com/aws).According to Lucas, cloud computing is not only about saving money on servers. "If you compare the cost of running a server on Flexiscale with a dedicated server of the same specification, you will save money but not a dramatic amount. It's more the flexibility. You can set up servers up straight away rather than having to wait for servers to be bought, delivered and installed and you've got the benefit of not having to have your own backup hardware."Cost-effective, scalable, green: cloud computing has a lot going for it. Unfortunately it can also be a single point of failure, as the S3 outage proves. There are other snags. Lock-in is a concern, particularly with offerings likeSalesforce.com, specialists in customer relationship managemen (CRM), which has a capable but proprietary on-demand platform. Another problem is security, auditing and compliance. The location of personal and confidential data has legal implications, which does not fit well with services like S3 where customers are not meant to care where the data is actually stored.Virtually thereLucas agrees that reliability is a concern. "I don't believe any business should take the risk that it couldn't happen," he says, adding that occasional large outages are actually more likely than minor ones. "You'll find that no small failures occur, because that's what the redundancy is built in for, but what you will get very occasionally is a major failure." This happened to FlexiScale at the end of August, when human error took the entire platform offline for two days. Does that make cloud computing hopeless?Lucas says the key is to develop interoperability between clouds. "We've got a customer who has half of what they run with us, and half of what they run with Amazon, and can switch between the two," he says. It is not easy to do this at present, but it could become so if standards were agreed between cloud providers. Lucas is optimistic. "I see the interoperability problem being fixed, because it needs to be for this market to grow."Virtualisation, where several virtual computers run on a single physical computer, is increasingly popular within enterprises as well as up in the cloud. If all these systems were compatible, then businesses could move virtual servers between their premises and one or more cloud providers at will. "Internal resources inside enterprises will be a cloud-type structure," Lucas says. "You'll ask for the resources you need and they'll be automatically allocated, and you can outsource it to an external cloud instead of using your internal one."Virtualisation specialist VMware has just announced what it calls vCloud (bit.ly/cloudy4). This allows customers to run virtual data centres on the internet, and to move applications on demand between their on-premise servers and those on the internet. The cloud may yet be ready for business.The Google view"I hate 'cloud computing'," says Sam Schillace, Google's "cloud advocate" and founder of Writely, which became Google Docs. He thinks it's a horrible term, perhaps because it doesn't suggest any of the social aspects that make it useful. He says: "We care about the social artefacts, not the technology. We care because the things we do online are about connecting with other people: email, instant messaging, blogging and so on." He says that 20 years ago, having an internet connection was unusual, but today, no one would want a computer that could not get online.Of course, not everybody can be connected all the time, so Google is trying to deal with the problems of being offline. One example is Google Gears, which, he says, "is essentially a very rich browser cache, in some ways. And it reduces latency" - the delays that come from communicating with a remote server. Gears gives web apps another gear. Schillace's job is to develop Google's cloud computing applications. "There has to be a real trust relationship with users, built around privacy and security and change," he says. If people don't trust Google, they won't use its apps. So "this company really does want to do the right thing".Jack Schofield
Music is on the cardsUS retailers will try selling albums on SlotMusic (MicroSD) memory cards.slotmusic.orgVideogame museumThe National Media Museum in Bradford is to house an archive of videogames.www.nationalmediamuseum.org.ukThe &euro;50 laptopPortugal has started rolling out 500,000 locally made versions of Intel's Classmate PC to schools at a subsidised price of &euro;50 (&pound;39.50) each.bit.ly/magellanThe 24-hour laptopHewlett-Packard reckons its EliteBook 6930p Notebook PC can run for 24 hours using its optional ultra-capacity battery.bit.ly/hpeliteGorilla-powered electronicsThe Ethical Superstore says its Solar Gorilla Laptop Charger (&pound;139.99) can charge a laptop and a mobile phone at the same time.bit.ly/solgorPlay onGuitar Hero World Tour will include 86 "master recordings" from the likes of Jimi Hendrix, The Doors, Nirvana and Van Halen.guitarhero.comYou Got Photo!UGA Digital's forthcoming YouGotPhoto  will allow users to send images to digital picture frames and desktop widgets anywhere in the world.yougotphoto.comPhoneAbility for 2012A free seminar is being offered in October to help those designing Olympic Games-related systems to cater for disabled users.tiresias.org/phoneability/gamesconferences.theiet.org/games
If I were in charge of the world, I'd change a few things. First, I would have three lives, just like in a computer game. That would allow me to carelessly - and frequently - throw myself from clifftops, walk into the path of oncoming danger and make hairpin turns around slippery corners while driving at 150mph. My fun bonus would be instantly upgraded, and I would have  mega-extreme XP in no time. Second, I would need to be preposterously buff and obscenely proportioned to cope with any of the bad things the world threw in my way. But that goes without saying, really.Perhaps this isn't what David Wortley, director of the Serious Games Institute, meant when he challenged the attendees of the Serious Virtual Worlds Conference last week to demand from our real lives what we expected from our virtual ones. His examples - personalisation and community - are inspiring visions of the future, from the architecture of clever buildings and interactive fashion to a new way of approaching and engaging with advertising.For example, smart structures that recognise a visitor as she or he comes through the door and adjust sound, temperature and lighting to suit, adapt the ideas behind RSS feeds and iGoogle and integrate them into the real world. The embedded physical structure and its human adaptations, only possible through technology, creates a personalised and richer experience. Unfortunately, it also creates ethical quandaries about personal privacy, data collection and identity ownership.Another approach inspired by virtuality is to use technologies to identify people in physicality who shared your interests without having to share them, based on user-generated tags drawn from profiles and other virtual activities. The fantasy: a recommendation service that moves beyond Amazon's "You Might Also Like..." function into real-world meetings and cuts out the time and energy spent in social situations fishing around for common interests. It's at once exciting and sinister: more common ground from the get-go means getting down to business more quickly, but the fine art of small talk becomes obsolete, as well as its welcome offshoot, discovering something new.Advertising has been revolutionised by interactivity. Witness the vast library of viral videos and Flash-based advergames, pimping unwanted products, services and brands and taking up hours of valuable work time. I don't doubt that there are still greater depths the industry has to scrape, but out of the mire have emerged some fascinating approaches to engagement that have influence real-world design, politics and community action.Unfortunately, my fantasy computer game-inspired world also has a few drawbacks. For starters, everyone around me would be terribly dull, with only a small cache of things she or he could say. They'd only unveil cryptic clues designed to get me to do something somewhere else. And any time I reached what I thought was my destination, another of these people would maddeningly direct me to another castle, another door or another series of perilous chasms full of fireballs. Perhaps I'll stick with my real-time generated meatspace instead, even though I do like the idea of so many lives.After all, the inspiration for virtual worlds and other social networks was to take the tools and tricks we use in the real world and apply them to an interconnected international community. Rather than take back what went in, we should probably celebrate what we already have - and celebrate the differences.
I'm just loading the ASA's pageNow that's what we call citizen journalism: a Boston-based owner of an iPhone compares the speed of page loading in the advert with real life. The advert's finished before the first real page loads.http://bit.ly/youc35Help! Get me out of this truck!In Japan, where earthquakes are a common occurrence, children are taught what to expect by sitting in an "earthquake truck". But shouldn't they dive under the desk, not just hold hands?http://bit.ly/youc36Ernie and Bert's gangsta rapThis has absolutely nothing to do with technology. Or games. But we defy you to watch it without laughing.http://bit.ly/youc37&#183;Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
Snapped by GoogleGoogle has just photographed my road and caught me on camera as well. I have emailed them to say that they do not have my permission to use my image. Do you have any details on how to stop this ridiculous breach of privacy?Samantha SamuelJS:It's perfectly legal to photograph people on the street - CCTV cameras do it all the time - as long as it's not for commercial gain. In any case, the UK's independent Information Commissioner's Office has already given Google the go-ahead to take photographs for its Street View service. It said: "Although it is possible that in certain limited circumstances an image may allow the identification of an individual, it is clear that Google are keen to capture images of streets and not individuals" (bit.ly/aj0034- PDF). Google has developed a system for blurring numberplates and faces and in difficult cases can remove someone altogether. It also provides what the commissioner said was "an easy mechanism by which individuals can report an image that causes them concern to Google and request that it is removed". You don't write in. You find the image online and click Street View Help in the corner of the image window. Then you select "Report inappropriate image" and fill in the form.Taming OutlookI am a self-employed accountant, and my Microsoft Outlook emails contain important advice or comments that I would like to be able to organise and store on my hard drive for future reference. and at present I keep all my emails in my in and sent boxes. I occasionally save individual emails in client folders with Word documents etc but they become overpopulated.Keith KnowlesJS:There are lots of add-ons for Outlook, and the one that sounds most suitable is QuickFile 4Outlook (addins4outlook.com), which you can try as shareware. There is a special version for lawyers that's also worth a look: it may meet your needs, and there's an online demo (outlook4lawyers.com). A newer plug-in is Xobni, which is 'Inbox' backwards (xobni.com). This is less oriented towards files and more about managing relationships (clients). Another solution is AskSam (asksam.com), which limits your exposure to scary Outlook PST file problems. I've mentioned it a few times, but often feel I must be the only user. It's a sort of free-form database into which you can chuck almost anything: emails, Word documents, PDF files, web pages, spreadsheets etc. You then have one file per project (or client), which allows fast, sophisticated searching. There's a 30-day trial version. You'd probably find you loved it or hated it within 30 hours. However, nowadays, it's probably easier just to sort files into lots of subdirectories and use Google Desktop Search.Teen emailWhat is the best way to set up an email account for our proto-teen daughter?John PageJS:Try ZooBuh, which has versions for small kids and teens (teens.zoobuh.com). This lets you set up contacts lists, have mail copied to a parent and remove images and links from incoming mail. After 30 days, it costs $1 per month per child. An alternative is KidMail (kidmail.net), which recommends IncrediMail (incredimail.com) for older children (ages 9-12). Yahoo also offers Family Accounts that can include children under 13 (bit.ly/aj0037).Reader's foiblesWhy does Adobe Reader always open in the My Documents folder instead of one I choose?Frank ShackletonJS:I don't know of a way round this except by never using Adobe Reader's file open dialogue. You don't need to open PDF files: just find them in Windows Explorer then double-click them. You can find files quickly and easily in Windows Explorer by adding selected folders to your list of Favorites. Put them in the My Computer folder and use the mouse to move this to the top of the list. If you can't see how to do this, go to Start, select Run, type in favorites and click OK. Then go to the menu, click Favorites, and choose Add to Favorites.Printers for LinuxIf "liliputers" are becoming more widespread and more useful, which is the most Linux-friendly printer manufacturer?Nick FisherJS:Most "liliputers" (mini-books or netbooks or subnotebooks) are sold with either Windows XP or Linux. For the Linux ones, the Linux Foundation suggests Epson or Hewlett-Packard models, but says: "The recommendations do not necessarily mean that these printers will be automatically recognised and configured by your distribution, merely that the printer can be made to work well with Free Software" (bit.ly/aj0038).Defrag goes walkaboutI can no longer defrag Windows XP. Apparently, MMC cannot open dfrg.msc. How can I restore it, or is there a decent (free) defragger I can download?Mike CalvertJS:The simplest fix may be to download the latest copy of the MMC management console. Go tobit.ly/aj0039, look for the "Windows XP, x86-based versions" section and download WindowsXP-KB907265-x86-ENU.exe. There are, however, several free defraggers. These include Diskeeper Lite (an old but free version of a commercial product), Auslogics Disk Defrag (bit.ly/aj0040), and the open source JkDefrag (bit.ly/aj0041).BackchatMany readers want to dispose of old computer equipment and I suggested eBay and Freecycle. David G P Williams says: "Any electronic equipment can be taken to the big distributors such as PC World and Comet at no charge, whether you bought it from them or not. I have done this for three items without a problem."&#183;Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.ukblogs.guardian.co.uk/askjack
Can a platform have gatekeepers? That is, can you define as a platform something that has gatekeepers? I think not: if it's got people who stop stuff going in, you call it a "walled garden". In which case the iPhone, which had looked for, oh, at least a few weeks as though it would be a platform, is actually a walled garden. And that's not good for its long-term future, especially not now that Google has teamed up with T-Mobile to launch the first mobile based on Android, the open mobile phone platform.Of course, if you're inside Apple's garden and standing in just the right spot, things are pretty rosy. Since the iPhone App Store opened on July 11, at least one writer has collected a cool $250,000: Steve Demeter, writer of Prism, a game that relies on the iPhone/iPod Touch's accelerometer (bit.ly/charles5).That quarter of a million is only 70% of the revenues; Apple keeps the other 30%, or $107,000. That's good business (developers usually get a lot less than 70% of the sale price via traditional third-party distribution). And that's just one application among thousands of paid-for ones.Only if you can get inside, though. And the walls of the garden are strangely defined. Most egregious is the case of Podcaster (bit.ly/charles6), which downloads podcasts on to an iPhone via Wi-Fi; this was rejected for "duplicating functionality of iTunes". Two things: first, it doesn't; second, why should Apple care? It's not as if iTunes is going extinct. And is Apple seriously saying it's a problem that an app does something better than iTunes does?More recently another program called MailWrangler, which lets you check multiple Gmail accounts on the iPhone, has been rejected (bit.ly/charles7) because it "duplicates the functionality of the built-in iPhone application Mail without providing sufficient differentiation or added functionality, which will lead to user confusion". So your program can't be better than Apple's; and it can't be as good as Apple's. I think I'm starting to get the picture.But just to be sure, I asked Apple to clarify its rules on programs' eligibility. They said they'd have an answer next day. A week later, there's still silence. As Wil Shipley, writer of the Mac application Delicious Library, points out, Apple clearly has no problem with developers duplicating each others' functionality: there are loads of sudoku programs available. It's when they "duplicate" Apple functionality it gets all huffy.Shipley offers (atbit.ly/charles8) a simple rule: "Publish all software submitted to Apple, as long as the software isn't actively harmful to users, [or] illegal, and does not violate Apple's agreements with cell phone vendors."Shipley is hardly delighted about Apple's rules on rejection, which it seems to have discovered down the back of a sofa in Cupertino during a latte break from approving 4,000 different iPhone apps that let you use it as a torch. He says it's "unethical and antithetical to the whole idea of an App Store for Apple to be censoring applications based on criteria they have never given to developers, and only told developers after the developers put in all the work of writing an app".Precisely. You can't have a half-open platform; it's like being half-pregnant. Openness to all comers constitutes the difference between a platform, like Android, and a walled garden, like the iPhone (and, to be fair, pretty much every other mobile phone). RIM doesn't have gatekeepers for the BlackBerry, and Microsoft doesn't with Windows Mobile. Once Android developers get their feet under the desk, there will be some very interesting applications, and they'll all fight to be noticed on a stage even more disorganised than the iPhone App Store: the world wide web.Google won't be setting up an Android App Store, and while T-Mobile might, I doubt it'll be as successful as Apple's, because one will be able to put pretty much anything from anywhere on to Android. All the cash will go to the developers, if they can capture it.But I know, I know: $250,000 in three months. I don't think that any application will make that much money for Android in the next three months, and perhaps not in the coming year.However, that's not the point of Android. It's much more about getting people to use the net all the time. Ultimately, the iPhone makes money for Google too, because it gets people using the net. Apple's not about to ban that. Which means Google will win - in time.
We had a Googlephone at the Guardian today, but not officially:Vint Cerfcame in to be grilled for lunch, and Google's excellent PR minder, Anthony House, was using his G1 for email. I was obviously concentrating on other things at the time, but it reminded me of the old Sidekick device, only much smaller. I'd guess anyone who has used earlier HTC phones with slide-out keyboards would spot the family resemblance, it seemed to be responsive, and it was certainly effective for making calls. But it also didn't look glamorous enough to attract iPhone, Nokia N95 or BlackBerry Curve/Bold users. As ZD Net'sMatthew Miller puts it:It has its strengths and weaknesses and is not bad for a first generation device, but it isn't the ground breaking, blow-me-away type of device I was looking for from Google and HTC.Some of the G1's limitations are a bit bizarre. For example, it locks you to one Google account, and a lot of us have at least two (one business, one private). You can use the IMAP facility to run a second Gmail account, but it's less than ideal. Also, you can only watch YouTube videos -- and given the iPhone's shortcomings in the video department, you might have thought Flash would be an obvious feature.The G1 also doesn't offer synchronisation with Microsoft Outlook, which is silly. The ability to cross-sync multiple devices via Outlook, and have them business-ready in a couple of minutes, is what keeps multiple device users sane. Synchronisation with Google is nice if you're a new born baby and have no prior attachments (or you're geek enough not to have a life), but people with a decade or two of baggage have usually got it stashed in Outlook. Miller says:There is no support for Exchange or BlackBerry syncing services and no way to sync even to Outlook via a cable. There is no ability to tether the device to your laptop and I am not sure that developers will be able to provide this. You can view Office attachments sent in an email and they do look quite good, but there are no editing, zooming, or saving capabilities. I asked about a notes or task list application and was told for the 1000th time that developers may provide this. I think enterprise wants more control than this for security and standardization and it just isn't an enterprise device. Nothing syncs or connects to a PC and there is no central Google webpage to manage all your data or apps so you can quickly go to an "Android data management page", like there is for the Sidekick. Apps can only be purchased on the phone with no desktop option and the ability to back them up concerns me a bit.If someone could put a G1 on a MicrosoftLive Meshring, of course, some of those problems would be solved…..It's also not clear how far it's locked to T-Mobile, though apparently you can get it unlocked after 90 days. This can be important if you travel, because you may well want to stick in a different SIM for use abroad.The lack of astandard headphone jackis also a silly annoyance, particularly for people who use their mobile phones as music players.Anyway, I've seen enough to know I won't be in the queue to buy one. And I suspect it won't be a long queue, unless T-Mobile follows the Orange Poland trick ofpaying actors to stand in linefor iPhones….
