"It's-a-me, Mario!" Nintendo's mascot hits E3 in his convertableGiven that Microsoft has just attempted to transform Xbox 360 into Wii, could it be that Nintendo was about to go the other way? Nah, of course not. In its press briefing this morning (PST), the company unveiled a new range of family-hugging games, having already announced its Wii 'Motion Plus' add-on, which provides, "more comprehensive tracking of a player's arm position and orientation." (Morehere.)And to champion the new 3D movement control device? Wii Sports Resort, a follow-up to the console's most dearly loved title:Scheduled for release in spring 2009, Wii Sports Resort includes new game experiences such as Sword Play, Power Cruising on a water scooter and Disc Dog, along with the new Wii MotionPlus accessory and Wii Remote Jacket at no additional cost.FromIGN:The first game shown was a frisbee throwing minigame where players have to try and thrown a plastic disc to a certain spot so that their puppy can catch it.The second game was a jet skiing minigame. Reggie Fils-Aime demoed the game, using the Wii Remote and Nunchuck as the handles of the jet ski. Accelerating is done by revving the Wii Remote like a throttle.Sword fighting is another game that uses the Wii Motion Plus controls to simulate 1:1. Players can duel each other using lightsaber looking plastic swords. Nintendo demoed the game by having Nintendo executives try to kill each other on screen.Having executives try to kill each other on screen is scientifically the best way to show off new games. And jet ski racing? Is this the closest we're going to get to Wave Race Wii?Click on the links below to see a couple of cute screens:View imageView imageAnd now Animal Crossing: City Folk...Yes, it's the latest title in the life simulation series from Nintendo's Entertainment Analysis and Development division. The emphasis with these lovely games has always been on community, though in the past its been confined to each individual gamer's virtual world. Butsince 2006, the game's director Katsuya Eguchi, has been talking about having friends to visit your town, even sending them emails when you're not there yourself. Hence:There is also the opportunity to catch a bus into the new urban city area. Though you'll never see other players in the city, you can connect with them in new ways using WiiConnect24, such as bidding on your friends' items at the auction house or visiting the Happy Room Academy headquarters to see the top-rated player house. Another new feature in Animal Crossing: City Folk is the ability to visit friends' towns and chat with one another using the new WiiSpeak microphone. The WiiSpeak microphone is sold separately at an MSRP of $29.99 and allows Internet voice chat among Wii Friends - not just from person to person but from room to room.It's social networking, online chat and candy sweet community building in one package - an inevitable development, perhaps echoing the likes of Club Penguin. Here are some images:View imageView imageFinally, Nintendo revealed its own take on the growing music entertainment genre. Coming on like an audio version of Mario Paint, Wii Music is a sort of simplified composing package. From the press release:Wii Music transforms the Wii Remote and Nunchuk™ controllers into more than 60 different instruments, including a violin, steel drums, electric guitar - even a cowbell. Players strum, shake, tap and drum along to the music in a pressure-free musical playground where there are no mistakes. They can improvise on their arrangements by skipping a note - or adding 10. The music always sounds great, but it's up to players to come up with creative arrangements that they can then send to friends and family who have Wii Music. Those Wii Friends can then put their own spin on the arrangement and send it back and forth over WiiConnect24. Wii Music will be available in the United States for the holidays.Here's a picture of a grown woman pretending to conduct an orchestra:View imageMeanwhile, on DS, Nintendo unveiled Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars. Due out this winter it's a new exclusive take on the series. From the press release:This is a game that will deliver a rich, fast-paced and intense 'Grand Theft Auto' experience that will be truly unique to Nintendo's handheld platform," said Sam Houser, Founder of Rockstar Games. "Rockstar Leeds, along with the team at Rockstar North, has built upon a decade of progressive design on Grand Theft Auto, and has created something fundamentally fresh and immersive."Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars is an entirely original entry into the critically acclaimed Grand Theft Auto series, and brings a new level of interactivity to its sprawling open environments. With the use of the DS touch screen, players will navigate their way through the streets as they uncover the truth behind an epic tale of crime and corruption within the Triad crime syndicate, delivering the unprecedented amount of depth that has become a true trademark of the franchise.There's an official websitehere.Finally, Guitar Hero On Tour: Decades and Spore Creatures are both coming to the handheld platform. There's lots more info atNintendo's E3 site.What do you think? Any surprises?
Apple is suing Psystar, the intriguing little Miami-based company that first came to everyone's noticeback in Aprilwith its promise to sell computers running Mac OS X "Leopard", but in a PC chassis. This, of course, would apparently break the End User Licence Agreement on Leopard, and so many people thought that Apple's fast-acting legal department would jump on it.Well, it's been more like a slo-mo kung fu panda sort of jump, but jump it nevertheless has. Adrian Kingsley-Hughesgot the scoop(by my newsfeeds), though he says he got itvia Jorge Espinosa(he's a lawyer)Larry Dignan, also at ZDNet, has the gist of the complaint:Here's the short version: Apple is great. Psystar isn't. Psystar used Apple's intellectual property and diluted the Apple brand to boot. We're going to sue Psystar into submission. Ok that last part wasn't stated that way in the complaint, but you get the idea.Ah well. It was very noisy and fun tracking you while it lasted. Even though it'snot clearthat the EULA really bans Psystar from what it's doing, it may not feel that it's worth the financial struggle.(Bonus link: in April, Iarguedthat Apple should cut its margins to stop the cloners:If enough startups make cloned Macs, Apple gets just $129 per machine (the price of Leopard at retail) - or perhaps only the wholesale price (which, Sir Alan would tell you, is probably two-fifths of the retail price, or $51.60). Apple's 10K stock filing shows that its net sales per computer sold are $1,532 (compared to $181 per iPod sold). We can't be sure how much profit each generates, but it seems a fair assumption that it's more than $129, or $51.60. Letting people make clones is financially bad news for Apple. With more than $18bn in the bank, it could afford to shave its margins to stave off cloners.But maybe lawyers are cheaper in the short run.
Curiously enough, YouTube now has aPeriodic Table of Videos-- 88 so far -- based on making a little video about each element. The videos are being made at the University of Nottingham.Yes, they have already done uranium. No, they didn't show someone cutting off a slice and pitching it into a bucket. But the series covers quite a few elements you probably don't know much about, and there are plenty of amusing asides on things like, for example, the origin of the namePersil.viaBoing Boing
As theFortune 2.0 blog notes,In a report to clients issued a few hours before Apple's announcement, [Gene] Munster [of analysts Piper Jaffray, who follows Apple closely] had estimated that Apple had sold about 425,000 iPhones worldwide and that it would take Apple at least 17 days to hit the one million mark.But instead the magic number came up in just three days. How's that happen, then?One explanation for the discrepancy may have to do with how Apple counts sales. Sales at Apple Stores are recorded at the register. But sales to its partners — in this case, AT&amp;T and the overseas carriers — are recorded when the devices leave the loading docks in Asia. In other words, some of those 1 million iPhones recorded as sold by Apple (AAPL) may still be in transit.Indeed, Munster makes the same point in a revised report issued to clients later Monday morning.But certainly Apple's sales were gigantically faster this time round, as Munster explained: "The improvement is driven by two key factors: 1) international availablilty in 21 countries, and 2) a 60% lower entry-level price point." No argument there. But we'd really like to see some solid numbers from O2 and other partners.
Those who forget history are doomed to repeat it.For example: say you're an entertainment executive looking to stop some incredibly popular kind of online information transmission – infringing music copyright, say. Where would you look to find a rich history of this kind of online battle? Why, the Spam Wars, of course. Where else?Electronic spam has existed in one form or another since 1978. For 30 years, networks have served as battlefield in the fight between those who want your mailbox filled with their adverts and those who want to help you avoid the come-ons.The war against spam has been a dismal failure: there's far more spam today than ever before, and it grows more sinister by the day. Gary Thuerk's 1978 bulk email advertisement for a new Digital Equipment model (widely held to be the first spam) was merely annoying and gormless. Today, the spam you receive might hijack your computer, turning it into a spyware-riddled zombie that harvests your banking details and passwords and uses its idle resources to send out even more spam. It might encrypt your files and demand anonymous cash transfers before unlocking them. It might be a front for a Spanish Prisoner scammer who will rob you of every cent you and your loved ones have.And (practically) everyone hates spam. It's not like copyrighted music, where millions of time-rich, cash-poor teenagers and cheapskates are willing to spend their days and nights figuring out how to get more of it in their lives. In the Spam War, the message recipients are enthusiastic supporters of the cause.Let's have a look at some of the spam war tactics that have been tried and have been found wanting.Content-based filtersThese were pretty effective for a very brief period, but the spammers quickly outmanoeuvred them. The invention of word-salads (randomly cut/pasted statistically normal text harvested from the net), alphabetical substitutions, and other tricksy techniques have trumped the idea that you can fight spam just by prohibiting certain words, phrases or media.Unintended consequence:It's practically impossible to have an email conversation about Viagra, inheritances, medical conditions related to genitals, and a host of other subjects because of all the "helpful" filters still fighting last year's spam battle, diligently vaporising anyone who uses the forbidden words.BlacklistingAnti-spam groups maintain blacklists of "rogue" internet service providers and their IPs – the numbers that identify individual computers. These are ISPs that, due to negligence, malice, error, or a difference of opinion on how to best block bad actors, end up emitting a lot of spam to the rest of the internet. Again, this worked pretty well for a short period, but was quickly overwhelmed by more sophisticated spammers who switched from running rogue email servers to simply hijacking end users' PCs and using them to send spams from millions of IPs.Unintended consequence:IP blocking becomes a form of collective punishment in which innocent people are punished (blocked from part or all of the internet) because one person did something naughty, and none of the punished had the power to prevent it. A single IP can stand in for thousands or even millions of users.The blacklists are maintained by groups whose identity is shrouded in secrecy ("to prevent retaliation from criminal spam syndicates") and operate at Star Chambers who convict their targets in secrecy, without the right of appeal or the ability to confront your accuser. Allegations abound that blacklisters have targeted their critics and stuck them in the black holes merely for criticising them, and not because of any spam.Blocking open serversEmail servers used to to be set up to accept and deliver mail for anyone: all you needed to do to send an email was to contactanyknown email server and ask it to forward your message for you. This made email sending incredibly easy to set up and run – if your local mailserver croaked, you could just switch to another one. But these servers werealso juicy targets for spammers who abused their hospitality to send millions of spams. A combination of blacklisting and social pressure have all but killed the open server in the wild.Unintended consequence:It's infinitely harder to send legitimate email, as anyone who has ever logged into a hotel or institutional network and discovered that you can't reach your mailserver any more can attest. And still the spam rolls in: legitimate users lack the motivation and capacity to learn to send mail in a block-ridden environment, whereas spammers have the motivation and capacity in spades.There have been other failures in the field, and a few successes (my daily spam influx dropped from more than 20,000 to a few hundred when my sysadmin switched on something called greylisting). But these three failures are particularly instructive because they represent the main strategic objectives of the entertainment industry's copyright enforcement plans.Every legislative and normative proposal recapitulates the worst mistakes of the spamfight: from Viacom's demand that Google automatically detect copyright-infringing videos while they're being uploaded; to the three-accusations-and-you're-offline proposal from the BPI; to the notion in the G8's Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement of turning copyright holders into judge, jury and executioner for what content can travel online and who can see it.The Spam Wars have shown us that great intentions and powerful weapons can have terrible outcomes – outcomes where the innocent are inconvenienced and the guilty merely evolve into more resistant, more deadly organisms.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
A teenager from New Zealand who was accused of stealing millions of pounds has been let off without a conviction, despite pleading guilty to hacking into computers around the world.18-year-old Owen Thor Walker, known online as "AKILL", was ordered to pay just £5,500 in costs and damages after a high court hearing in Hamilton, New Zealand, and could even end up working with local police to help them understand online crime.Lawyers in the case told Associated Press that officers were interested in using Walker's skills for positive purposes, and although Detective Inspector Peter Devoy said that "there is no offer on the table", he admitted that the "option is being kept open".Walker was arrested in November last year after an investigation involving the New Zealand police, FBI, US Secret Service and Dutch police, and was initially accused of leading a computer hacking ring that had stolen more than £12m from victims around the world.After a high court hearing, however, police said Walker was in fact employed by the group to write software which they then used to access people's bank accounts. According to police, Walker did not directly take money from people's bank accounts, but the software he wrote was used by other criminals.Walker pleaded guilty to charges of accessing a computer for dishonest purposes, accessing computer systems without authorisation, interfering with computer systems and possessing software with the intent to commit crime, but Justice Judith Potter dismissed the charges and ordered him to pay damages and costs of $14,000 New Zealand dollars (£5,500).The case was part of a wider crackdown on the group, which has seen eight people around the world charged or convicted since last year. Arrest warrants have been issued for 13 others.The group, said police, had built a massive network of more than a million zombie computers – known as a "botnet" – allowing them to steal credit card information, manipulate stock trades and crash the systems of large companies.
Lyndsay Williams of Girton Labs says she really misses the "tactile feel of old traditional potentiometers, sliders and push/toggle switches, as on musical instruments and hi-fi, so I designedSenseSurface. These are three-dimension knobs that attach to a laptop LCD." The site says:The magnetic knobs can be removed and repositioned immediately by picking them up and moving to a different part of screen. A unique sensing surface is attached to the rear of the laptop screen to detect the control's position. The rotary controls are low friction and there are no screen finger prints as with normal touch surfaces. Linear sliders and switches can also be used on the LCD surface. The number of controls on the screen is only limited by the size of the screen.There are obvious applications in the pro music and graphics markets, but if you had knobs, what would you want to use them for?IinterviewedLyndsay Williams for the Technology section last year.
Whilst most people who work in the games industry make an average wage, there are some game developer innovators who make such a packet of cash that they're able to do the most astonishing things.Case in point,Richard Garriott, aka Lord British, and programmer/creator of the massively successful Ultima series, is handing over a whopping £15 million of his fortune to a company calledSpace Adventuresin exchange for a 10-day trip to the International Space Station on the RussianSoyuzspacecraft.Yeah, it may be old news now (it was announced in September last year), but seriously - how cool is that.From theofficial website:Richard's main objective for his mission is to encourage commercial participation. By fostering the involvement of individuals, companies and organizations in his spaceflight Richard hopes to demonstrate that there is commercial potential in private space exploration, while furthering the understanding of space. Richard plans to demonstrate this by taking on various commercial projects, corporate sponsors for his mission activities and by helping companies market their products though their association with an actual space mission.He won't just be kicking back with anintergalactic gargle blasterthough; he's got a severalobjectives to complete on his mission, including scientific and environmental research. His dad, an astronaut himself, is Richard's chief scientist.Garriott will be heading to the outer limits later in the autumn.
A high-tech company in the US has created a games controller that you playwith the power of your mind. According toPhysorg, EPOC is the, er, brainchild of Emotiv, a San Francisco start-up. The technology builds a new interface between thoughts and action on a screen:A videogame will be included with the headset when the package goes on sale for 299 dollars at the Emotiv website and select shops.The martial arts fantasy game has a rural Asian setting. An animated "master" leads players through exercises that include lifting mountains with their minds.A test of the headset showed that after "training" the EPOC system for less than a minute one could spin, push, pull and lift objects onscreen, or make them vanish, by simply thinking about it.Fantasy? Possible. We'll find out at Christmas. You canpre-order here. Before you do that, thought, keep in mind what snwboardn said in the comments,Now the only thing that's left is a device that takes input from the game and puts it into your mind.Other games that do your head in:Gameboys instead of anestheticand thehead-controlled Wii.
The European commission will tomorrow defy a high-profile lobbying campaign by composers and songwriters and order a new pan-European system of selling online music rights.Songwriters marshalled by Robin Gibb of the Bee Gees and including Bryan Ferry, Paul McCartney and Mark Knopfler have enlisted French president Nicholas Sarkozy and German chancellor Angela Merkel to back their campaign.But despite their lobbying efforts and claims that hundreds of thousands of small writer and publisher firms would be wiped out under the proposed system, Neelie Kroes, EU competition commissioner, will rule against the monopoly of national groups that collect performing rights.Her decision, in an anti-trust case dating back six years, means that composers will no longer be obliged to register with the collecting society on their home territory and can shop around for the most efficient management of their performing rights. The commission says choosing one society to act for them across the EU will maximise their income and cut the management fees the societies "cream off".Kroes will also give the go-ahead for broadcasters, whether online or by cable and satellite, to negotiate an EU-wide licence with one society - rather than having to negotiate separately with the 24 agencies operating in the EU,  to promote online music sales in Europe, which lag behind those of the US and account for less than 10 percent of the market.The commission case has won the backing of trade lobby European Digital Media Association, which embraces firms such as Amazon, Google, Microsoft and Orange. It insists that collecting societies are vital in ensuring that songwriters/composers are paid fairly and efficiently but have been guilty of anti-competitive behaviour. It was also supported by AER, a lobby of more than 4,500 private or commercial radio stations in Europe that says it pays out &euro;325m (&pound;260m) a year for music rights to collecting societies.The European Composer and Songwriter Alliance argued earlier this month that the whole system would collapse if collecting societies were forced to compete with each other across national boundaries on price. Songwriters and composers would withdraw their repertoires and refuse to allow their work to be played. But Kroes's officials said the national collecting societies would remain free to negotiate and set the level of rights paid to songwriters and composers on their own territory and would not be allowed to discriminate against "foreign" nationals
eBay has won a four-year legal battle with Tiffany over the jeweller's complaint that the online website amounted to a "rat's nest" auction of counterfeit watches, bracelets and necklaces.A judge in New York ruled yesterday that eBay could not be held responsible for policing the contents of its site, and that it was Tiffany's role to draw fake designer jewellery to the auctioneer's attention.The verdict is a relief to eBay which lost a similar case in Paris two weeks ago when a French court ordered it to pay &euro;38.6m (&pound;30m) in damages to the luxury goods manufacturer LVMH for allowing the sale of fake bags, perfumes and designer clothes.Internet experts had suggested that a series of verdicts against eBay could threaten the business model of many customer-to-customer websites, although others maintain that a crackdown on online fraud is overdue.In a written ruling, US district judge Richard Sullivan said: "Tiffany must ultimately bear the burden of protecting its trademark." But he said he was "not unsympathetic" to Tiffany's complaint, and hinted that US law might need a fresh look. "Policymakers may yet decide that the law as it stands is inadequate to protect rights owners in light of the increasing scope of internet commerce and the concomitant rise in potential trademark infringement," he said.The dispute between eBay and the 170-year-old jewellery boutique dates from June 2004 when Tiffany lost patience with the quantity of silver merchandise available on the internet which claimed to bear its brand.In court, the jeweller described eBay as a "proverbial rat's nest" of knocked-off goods, and testified that the auctioneer earned $4.1m of revenue from purported Tiffany goods over a four-year period.eBay did not deny that counterfeit items sometimes appeared on its site, but argued it removed them swiftly whenever they were flagged up."Today's decision is a victory for consumers," said eBay in a statement. "The ruling appropriately establishes that protecting brands and trademarks is the primary burden of rights owners."The outcome was greeted by NetChoice Coalition, a group representing hi-tech companies, which said a Tiffany victory "would have ended up foreclosing an entire category of ecommerce".
Okay, so last month's massiveinfo leaksremoved some of the impact from Microsoft's pre-E3 briefing, but the mega-corp still had a few surprises and surprising details up its wizard-like sleeves. In a press release entitled 'Xbox 360 Unveils Gameplay for Every Passion', the company today revealed its ambitious plans to compete with the mainstream phenomenon that is Wii. First, Xbox Live is being completely re-designed around a channel structure and will now include a personalisation element (apparently entitled My Xbox) allowing gamers to create their own avatars, designed by Rare. Other stuff includes:Xbox LIVE PrimetimeA new Xbox Live channel, launching in the autumn and offering a range of massively multiplayer quiz games. The service is kicking off with a Live version of 1 vs 100, an interactive version of the Endemol TV quiz show. Allowing, yes, 100 gamers from all over the world to compete in the knock-out Q&amp;A action, the game features a 'live host' and 'great prizes'. An interesting extension of the trivia game genre re-ignited by Buzz.MusicSeveral titles here. We'd heard about Lips in the aforementioned leak, but Microsoft confirmed the details today. It's a singing game which lets you employ your own CDs and offer wireless, motion sensitive microphones. Motion sensitive?! Will it test your dancing skills too? Oh please no. It's being developed by Microsoft and Elite Beat Agent creator,Inis. Also mentioned were Guitar Hero World Tour, Rock Band 2 (pictured), featuring new online capabilities and instrument options, and DanceDanceRevolution UNIVERSE3 (Konami), with Xbox Live multiplayer, new DJ and Quest modes and 70 songs.Party!There's a new Live Party system which lets eight friends seamlessly meet up online, chat, play games, share photos and movies, and watch Netflix movie downloads together, chatting while the film shows. This is US-based though - I don't think there's any word on a UK equivalent of the Netflix service.There are also several games tied in to Microsoft's social/party plans including bizarre-sounding B-movie maker, You're in the Movies (Codemasters): "Using the Xbox LIVE Vision camera, players' actions are captured and placed into short, riotous films. Performances never end up on the cutting-room floor, and are never the same." Scene It? Box Office Smash is a follow-up to last year's quiz game, this time featuring the My Xbox avatars as well as downloadable questions and localised content for various territories.Update 1:Square Enix is releasing Final Fantasy XIII on Xbox 360. Morehere.Update 2:More infoon that Xbox Live re-design from Microsoft's Marc Whitten.Elsewhere, there were several Xbox Live Arcade and major retail release announcements. It's getting late so I'm going to cheat and paste the key press release summaries below...Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts &amp; Bolts (Rare Ltd./Microsoft Game Studios)"Available exclusively on Xbox 360 in November, from the creative masterminds at Rare, Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts &amp; Bolts is an action-adventure game that breathes new life into a franchise that has entertained people of all ages for a decade. In a platform genre first, players create their own abilities by building vehicles for Banjo to pilot over land, sea and air in a variety of Challenges where their choice of vehicle and tactics determines the course of the adventure. Players can test their customized vehicles against other players' creations online or simply compare and share their inventions with friends. The original Banjo-Kazooie also debuts with Stop 'N' Swop on Xbox LIVE Arcade later this year."Galaga Legions (NAMCO BANDAI Games"The arcade shooter Galaga has captivated players all over the world, and now the legend lives on with Galaga Legions. Featuring table-turning game dynamics, updated graphics and vast waves of ferocious enemies, Galaga Legions was created by the same team that developed the best-selling PAC-MAN Championship Edition for Xbox LIVE Arcade. "Galaga Legions" will debut exclusively on Xbox LIVE Arcade in 2008."Geometry Wars: Retro Evolved 2 (Bizarre Creations Ltd./Activision)"The latest version of the frenetic retro shooter, Geometry Wars: Retro Evolved 2 debuts exclusively on Xbox LIVE Arcade in 2008. Newcomers and pros alike will be blown away by the screen-melting intensity and insane new features, including six action-packed gameplay modes, new enemies, scoring strategies and a diverse list of exciting Achievements. Geometry Wars: Retro Evolved 2 also supports multiplayer mayhem for up to four players, with versus or co-op modes, and features razor-sharp 1080p graphics and new, pulse-pounding music."Portal: Still Alive (Valve/Microsoft)"Portal: Still Alive features the full award-winning Portal single-player game from Valve plus a new challenge mode. Designed to change the way players approach, manipulate and surmise the possibilities in any given environment, Portal has earned more than 70 industry honours for its innovative gameplay, with more than 30 Game of the Year Awards. Solve physical puzzles and challenges by opening portals to manoeuvring objects, and yourself, through space. The game is debuting on Xbox LIVE Arcade in 2008."South Park (South Park Digital Studios/Doublesix/Microsoft)"Based on the Emmy and Peabody-award winning show, a South Park game (title TBA) is coming exclusively to Xbox LIVE Arcade in 2009."
As usual, Engadget's Ryan Block has blogged theMicrososft press conferenceat the E3 games trade show in as Angeles. Peter Molyneux from Lionhead says "Fable II is finished!" Cliff Bleszinski demos Gears of War 2. Square Enix says Final Fantasy XIII is coming to Xbox. NBC Universal has started supplying video (Heroes etc) via Xbox Live, plus Netflix will stream more than 10,000 movies to Gold members who are also Netflix subscribersat no additional cost. In other words, it's just like Roku's Netflix Player but you don't have to spend $100 on a Roku. Microsoft has apress releaseabout the deal. (Also, ourGamesbloghas much more detail, but didn't when I posted.)The Nintendo and Sony press conferences are on tomorrow (Tuesday). More details and trailers:http://www.e3expo.com/Update: Among the interesting responses, some sites are asking, like Venture Beat,Did Microsoft just destroy the Apple TV?I've long thought the Xbox 360 was superior to the Apple TV as a living room digital entertainment device -- and not just because of the gaming factor. Apple TV changed my perception a bit with the ability to rent movies, but now the 360 is back with a vengence.The Xbox 360 does pretty much everything that Apple TV does, except connect to Apple's proprietary iTunes not-a-website. Unlike Apple TV, it also plays pretty much any kind of video, including DivX and Xvid, it plays DVDs with upscaling, it plays games (doh), and it connects to the Xbox Live service. On the other hand, it's bigger, much noisier, and costs more, especially if you include the Netflix and Xbox Live subscriptions. And being able to play games is not much of a selling point if you don't actually want to play games....In the end, then, I think it comes down to different products for different purposes. And from Microsoft's point of view, it probably doesn't care about the Apple TV, which is a tiny market. It certainly does care about having Xbox 360 features to sell against Sony's PlayStation 3.
Unsurprisingly, last week was dominated by a certain mobile phone launch, a subject I'm tackling in my Technology column this Thursday. For now, though, I'll just mention that mobile game publishers were determined to get in on the action, firing out press releases about their iPhone gaming round-ups.At the moment, it seems most are playing it safe, working on simple casual titles - partly because they're not sure about the technology (wah! It's got no keyboard!) and partly because casual titles have been going down well on iPod.Gameloft, for example, is bringing over a few of its 'Platinum' range of puzzlers including Platinum Sudoku and Platinum Solitaire as well as a couple of cheeky takes on familiar classics, Bubble Bash (Bubble Bobble) and Diamond Twister (Bejeweled). Both of these add support for the accelerometer, though - Bubble Bash lets you move the bubble-shooting cannon by tilting the phone, while Diamond Twister, lets you rotate the phone in order to choose from which edge the diamonds fall. You can see videos of the gameshereEA, meanwhile, has Tetris ("The touch screen allows players to pinch, drag, tap, and shake to clear rows and rack up points in a whole new way"), EA Sudoku and, only in the US and Canada I'm afraid, Scrabble. The latter lets you shake your phone to mix the letters up at the beginning of the game! Sadly, it doesn't seem that you can do it mid-game, thereby allowing players to have a virtual strop.Naturally, Popcap is porting ultimate gem-shifting puzzle legend Bejeweled (or rather Bejeweled 2) over to the platform. The press release says: "Tuned specifically for the iPhone, Bejeweled 2 offers touch screen support with intelligence to determine which gem a player meant to touch (select), even when the player hasn't used precise finger strokes to "hit" the second gem perfectly. Additionally, the game will use the accelerometer to detect orientation and automatically shift between vertical and landscape modes depending on how the user is holding the device." But of course, iPhone already has its own gem tumbler in the shape ofTrism, which has been drawingexcellent reviewsfor its imaginative implementation of the motion controls.Elsewhere, Capybara has shoved its brilliant titleCritter Crunchonto iPhone, while Glu has launchedSpace Monkey, which involves spinning a simian around trying to grab rubbish as it floats through space. Okay.You may also be weirdly interested in Freeze Tag'sEtch A Sketchconversion which uses the phone's multi-touch technology, allowing you to twiddle both drawing knobs at once - just like the real thing! But on iPhone!Finally, it's worth noting that mobile ads companyGreystripeis providing an iPhone SDK so publishers can implement the company's in-game ads system into their titles (more infohere). Which means lots of free games. Unless you doubt the veracity of the term free when used in conjunction with advertising. In which case, you're too smart and cynical to be caught up in all this iPhone 2.0 excitement anyway. Right?
When I bloggedGoogle's launch of Lively, I mentioned several similar systems includingImvu, But I did notice a couple of comments to posts on other blogs to the effect that Google hired one of Imvu's co-founders to help it produce its knock-off. Was this true?Apparently so. At least, I've now got a (widely circulated) email from Cary Rosenzweig, Imvu's CEO, who says:That Lively has IMVU elements should come as no surprise. Google offered to buy IMVU in October 2005. Four of the five co-founders rejected the offer, and IMVU continued as an independent company. The fifth co-founder, Mel Guymon, left to lead this IMVU-like project at Google.Ahem, isn't that the sort of thing Microsoft is supposed to do?Of course, nobody owns any specific type of application and 3D worlds have been around for a decade or more. It's far better to do what Roseweig does and say: "IMVU welcomes Google's validation of the virtual world space." However, this could turn out like Apple welcoming IBM into the PC market. Apple was the US market leader at the time, and almost got validated out of existence.
Apple has just announced that it - well, with its partners, surely? -sold1m iPhone 3Gs in the first weekend of being on sale, and that10m downloadshave been done from the iPhone App Store.(Image fromBoing Boing)Which is of course lovely news for Apple - although we'd be interested to know how many of that million have activated: Twitter isperiodically alivewith messages from people whose iPhone has fallen over, or won't talk to iTunes, or whatever hassles get in the way of making it live.And there's a vast - and growing? -list of peoplecomplaining about the service they've had from Carphone Warehouse in trying to activate their iPhone. (At present it stands at 63 people - which, OK, isn't a scratch on 1m, but then again Apple only said it hadsold1m, not that it hadactivated1m.)Some people though are finding a quite different problem: first-generation users (you know, the people who don't have the latest one) are finding that after they install the 2.0 firmware (meant to bring the latest and greatest, such as iPhone Apps) the previous phone-mast/Wi-Fi-based location-based system has fallen over.Currently, that's frustrating people over atApple's discussions boardand at theMacRumors forums.People in the UK seem particularly hard hit by the update - though no indication why.Apple is as ever welcome to get in touch with us and explain so that we can post here. Alas, it seems that via other channels it's giving it a "not aware of this problem" response, which would imply that nobody there still has a 1.0 iPhone, or that they don't have this problem. We're unsure quite how that could be true.(Thanks to Damien for the tip on LBS.)
Dell's new Studio range is targeted at more design-conscious consumers, and fits between the functional but cheap business machines and the high-end XPS customised models with great graphics. This is a market segment where Dell hasn't competed before, and it's one that's becoming increasingly important to Dell as it expands from direct sales into retail sales.Having a distinctive consumer range helps justify the higher prices charged in the retail market, and should help Dell to avoid cannibalizing its huge online sales business. However, if it works, it could hit both Hewlett-Packard (with its Compaq brand) and Sony, which is the high-priced supplier.Dell's ambitions for the Studio range have been underlined by its launch ofDesigned for Dellperipherals that are available in a wide range of colours to match the colours offered on Sudio notebooks. The peripherals themselves are being produced by Belkin and Targus (bags etc), Creative Labs (earbuds and speakers), Iomega (external hard drives) and Logitech (mice).There won't be a viable market for the add-ons unless Dell sells millions of Studio computers. However, I'd assume that the Dell E series of minibooks (subnotebooks) will come in the same colours, and enlarge the potential market.Anyone placing bets on Dell getting back the number 1 spot in the PC market?
The first major British battle against computer game piracy is in the docks, according toMCV. Over 100 UK game file sharers, individuals who upload copyright protected materials to p2p networks, are expected to be taken to court byTopWare Interactive, a small development house based in Nevada, USA. This move comes after a successful prosecution of four file-sharers earlier in the month, when the distribution of TopWare'sDream Pinball 3Dcost the hapless pirates approximately £690 each.Unsurprisingly, anti-piracy units are singing like songbirds. The first successful, large-scale sting operation is underway, and this means a strong message is being sent out to would-be UK file sharers.Yet the affected company is neither a major player, nor is it a UK-based company, and the game at the centre of the hearing is hardly a AAA title. Why is a US-based small fish successful when the legions of top-whack British game producers aren't? A quick peek at an online sharing service shows that other AAA British-developed games are easily accessible; surely Codemasters (for example) has the clout and the cash to track down and prosecute people who've shared Flashpoint or Colin McRae Rally?Around the blogosphere, therejibessuggestingthat TopWare's motive for taking this case to court is actually a publicity stunt. Perhaps the real story is the other way around, and we should be looking at why the large UK companies haven't been successful at cracking down on piracy themselves.
In 1997, the nameSlashdotwas cool, because most people really weren't familiar with the idea of web addresses: we'd tell them to go to "slash slash slash-dot dot org" and their eyes would glaze over. The /. site was pretty cool, too. It was billed as "News for Nerds" and the net had a very high proportion of nerds back then.What it didn't have was a plethora of blogs where someone could post a short story with a link so that thousands of people could pile in and discuss it. But at the time, I thought of Slashdot more as a replacement for Usenet newsgroup discussions than a precursor of blogging.Either way, Slashdot soon became so popular that it gave rise to "the Slashdot effect". Slashdotters would see a new user-submitted story and click the link, and the target site would promptly collapse under the sheer weight of visitors. Sites that carried stories about Linux and open source, and geeky science news, usually hadn't been set up to handle huge spikes in traffic.Naturally, many people tried to exploit the Slashdot effect, including me. There was no quicker way to get noticed.Unfortunately, one of the downsides of nerdy sites is that they attract loads of nerds. These are the people who don't have girlfriends or proper jobs; who live on pizza in their parents' basement, and rarely see the sun; who have an encyclopedic knowledge of Star Wars but no common sense. It's a running gag on Slashdot that everyone is like that, even though they're not.Slashdot's standard nerd hypocrisy is another running gag. Everyone knows that anything related to Apple/Linux/open source is innovative and cool, whereas if Microsoft had done exactly the same thing, it would be evil and monopolistic. Double standards rule.But unlike Usenet, Slashdot has an innovative and cool Karma system to bury a lot of the rubbish. Comments are labelled (flamebait, troll, redundant, insightful, interesting, informative, funny etc) and rated, and Slashdotters can vote them up or down. The perceptive comments should therefore get voted up to +4 or +5 while the stupid ones are voted down to -1. If you browse Slashdot with a threshold set at +3, you can read the best and ignore the rest.The good stuff on Slashdot is still very good, but perhaps the site is past its best. Although it has expanded beyond the nerd ghetto into politics and YRO (Your Rights Online), the site has been superseded by newcomers such asDiggandReddit,TechmemeandTailrankand other sources of news links. Slashdot's responses to this competition – which includeIdleandFirehose– don't seem to have the same sort of momentum.Any site that has signed up more than a million members and has several million visitors a month is clearly getting lots of things right. It's still the primary place for nerds to discuss news. However, as the internet grows, the proportion of nerds declines, and so does Slashdot's relative importance.
It seemed like a welcome relief when Microsoft walked away from the Yahoo deal, but the company has now got heavily involved with "billionaire investor Carl C. Icahn," which seems like a way to pick up Yahoo's search business on the cheap.During skirmishes over the weekend, Yahoo rejected a new search-related deal, while Microsoft declined to buy Yahoo at the old $33 price, have already made several higher offers. According toThe New York Times:But the offer proved tough for Yahoo to swallow, these people said. It would have effectively led to the sale of Yahoo's search advertising business to Microsoft, leaving the remaining operations in Mr Icahn's hands. Yahoo also believed that the promised revenue of the latest offer [$2.3 billion a year] was less than it would earn through the Google partnership.The latest deal would also have replaced Yahoo's board, which seems to be a big part of Icahn's game plan. So the question now is whether Yahoo's shareholders will do that. Yahoo's annual shareholder meeting is scheduled for August 1, so we may soon find out.Any deal with Microsoft could, of course, be delayed by regulatory investigation, and the Yahoo/Google dealis already being investigatedby US anti-trust regulators. So it looks as though we may be stuck with this farrago for at least a few more months.
Star Wars games used to be great. Think the original arcade game in the '80s. Or the"Super" SNES gamesand the likes of Tie Fighter and Dark Forces in the 90's. But the last ten years or so haven't been kind to fans of the Force. Remember gaming atrocities like - shudder -Masters of Teras Kasi,Obi-Wanand the official prequel games. If you missed them you're lucky. If you're curious then feel free to splash out a quid or two for each on ebay. Of course there has been the occasional good 'un but interestingly these games - Knights of the Old Republic, Battlefront and possibly the early days ofGalaxiesif you're feeling generous - were all developed externally. So the pressure is on for next Star Wars game -The Force Unleashed. Released on Sept 19th the game is being developed in-house and has the added expectation of being marketed as the "next film". Luckily then what I've seen and played so far looks like it could banish thoseSuper Bombadera memories for good. I recently spoke to LucasArts Project Lead Hayden Blackman about Force Unleashed, George Lucas and the stresses of creating a new Star Wars game.You have been developing the game since 2004 - why has it taken so long?We spent the first year concept and prototyping the game. We had over 100 different concepts which we whittled down to 20. We then talked to consumers and whittled them down to 7. Then we spoke to George (Lucas) and elements from these seven ended up being the Force Unleashed. The next 6 months were spent on nailing down the story. Then we went into a year's worth of prototyping, building levels and starting the PR and marketing. Early 2007 was the start of full production which took around a year. And since then we have done the bug testing, submission and tuning. Ideally we would have had longer in production.How do you keep the team excited and focussed over such a long periodIt was tough at times. You could find yourself without an illustrator and that could hold things up for 2 weeks. We run a lot of morale initiatives. So we have the Jedi Awards which is a kind of team sprirt thing. I handed out the first one and then the winner each week hands it on to the person they think best defines team spirit. The only rule is you can't hand it someone in your own discipline. So an artist can't give it to another artist. We also held regular team celebrations of the game. If you are head down in audio creation you probably have no idea how some of the wider game looks. We also showed the team any big press coverage. But for a while you just don't know if the game is going to be any fun or not. That was a low period in the early days. We turned a corner when we hit a mid production milestone and then things just motored from there. But I wont lie to you, keeping the team fresh and excited was one of my biggest challenges.The likes of Mass Effect have pushed videogame characterisation to the next level. How important are things like this, the cinematics and story to TFU?Obviously it depends on the game but for us it was hugely important to have a powerful central story line. High quality cinematics and facial capture was very important for us. As a company we want to experiment with different ways of telling a story. Cinematics are one way but there are lots of different ways to tell a story.What kind of audience are you going for with Force Unleashed?At Lucasarts we have this philosophy that we don't make games for ourselves we make them for the players. So we do lots of focus testing. I was adamant with the team that we wanted to make TFU easy to pick up and play. So if you're a fan of Star Wars but a casual gamesplayer you can play on easy and have an enjoyable experience. We have people on the team who are horrible gamers and they are a litmus test of this. So people can play it easy, and run and gun their way through. But if you want to take a stealthier tactical approach you can do that and will be rewarded for it. We are also launching on multiple platforms. So the experience on the Wii and DS will be different to 360 but there will still be the same story and characters.Some of the best Star Wars games like KOTOR and Tie Fighter focus on playing as the bad guy. Was this something you focussed on when developing TFU?For us it wasn't so much playing the bad guy, even though you are playing as Darth Vader's secret apprentice. It was more about putting down a challenge in front of a gamer. We thought hunting down the last of the Jedi would be a fun for gamers. When we focus tested the concepts we didn't tell the testers anything about the story. One of the overriding feedback answers was that they wanted the apprentice to be human, athletic and powerful. Not too powerful though, as he shouldn't eclipse Vader. But the key thing was that they wanted to look at the character and see that he could be redeemed. Obviously redemption is one of the key themes of the Star Wars saga. They all said it was great hunting down Jedi and being Vader's dog but ultimately they wanted the character to be redeemed.How important are things like character customisation in the game?Costumes are just costumes to unlock, though they do look cool. But the lightsaber stuff is the most fun. You can upgrade your saber throughout the game and change more cosmetic things like the colour of it. You can increase all your Force powers too. There is also some levelling or ranking that powers up your character and Force powers. So some powers will recharge quicker and do more damage. There also what we call talents which are passive skills that rank up with you. There are a range of combos too that customise around your play style, whether you are melee or Force focussed.TFU is set the game between films 3 and 4. Was this a deliberate marketing decision so the game appeals to those younger fans who prefer the prequels as well older fans of the original films?Not really. It was more about looking at what time period would make the best setting for a new story. We talked to George and wanted to find out what the most fervent time period would be. He felt between the two trilogies was the best. Internally that time period was completely off limits until the third film was done. We went to speak to George after episode 3 was done. He then made that period on limit and riffed a lot about what was happening in that time. You've got all the stuff about Vader and the Emperor's relationship and a lot of the major players were involved. We just felt it was the perfect place in the Star Wars story to set a game. But yes we do think the game will help bridge the generational gap we sometimes see where younger fans prefer the newer films and the older ones are more loyal to the original trilogy.Did technology drive the game or was it the other way round?It was a bit of both really. The technology is important obviously but we wanted to make a great game first and foremost. Early on we started talking to the guys behind the physics engineEuphoriabut we had already created some concept videos at this point which showed the whole unleashing of the Force concept. Initially we had assumed we would use Havok for the physics. We didn't talk to the DMM guys until later on. So the early focus was very much on the story and game ideas rather than tech. Of course when you get something likeDMMand Euphoria it brings on new ideas. We realised we could get these great environmental effect with DMM for example where we change materials on the fly. It helped and inspired us to create a planet full of giant mushrooms for example. So a bit of both then but TFU was driven more heavily by the game than the tech.You are pitching this game as the "new film". Was this is a conscious decision from the early days or purely marketing hype to create a bigger buzz amongst Star Wars fans?It happened quite organically early on when began nailing down the story and where the game was set. I love a lot of our games like Knights of the Old Republic and Dark Froces but they don't have Darth Vader and they don't deal with the big events between the two trilogies. Once we got the storyline and once we realised there were some big beats and twists in the plot and characters we saw that the game had started to become more of an event. We realised we had a fun game in development and then the action figures and comic guys got excited and signed up. As games people we had to get excited about the game first and then we got the rest of Lucas excited too. We've got a great team here. We've gone through adversity but hopefully we've created a great game.Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is out for 360, PS3, Wii, DS and PSP on Sept 19th. No joy for PC gamers though.
Europe's mobile phone companies are braced for a clash with EU regulators this week as telecoms commissioner Viviane Reding calls for the cost of sending texts when abroad to be more than halved. The EU is also set to announce a clampdown on mobile ringtone services that offer "free" downloads to snare teenagers into signing expensive monthly contracts.The EU's consumer protection chief Meglena Kuneva has looked at more than 500 such services across the EU as part of an investigation into possible breaches of consumer protection legislation. She is understood to want national regulators to take legal action against ringtone providers that do not make it plain to consumers they are signing up for a paid subscription service. She wants anyone selling subscription services - which cost consumers several pounds a day - to be barred from using the term "free" on promotional texts and adverts.The Office of Fair Trading and the UK's premium-rate content regulator, PhonepayPlus, have been involved in the inquiry and on Thursday - the same day as Kuneva's announcement - PhonepayPlus will unveil its proposals for a wide-ranging shakeup of an industry that across Europe is worth more than &euro;500m (&pound;400m) a year. PhonepayPlus said recently that it has seen complaints about such services double over the first three months of this year.The hidden charges behind ringtones hit the headlines in the UK three years ago when parents complained that their children had unknowingly signed up for subscription services when they downloaded the popular Crazy Frog ringtone.PhonepayPlus's new proposals, however, include not just ringtones but cover the advertising and promotion of other forms of mobile content such as games and are designed to make it very clear to consumers what they are paying and what they will get when they sign up.Reding, meanwhile, has become increasingly annoyed with the mobile phone industry's failure to reduce the cost of using a mobile phone overseas. She has already clamped down on the cost of making calls abroad and will tomorrow set her sights on text roaming prices.The commission reckons that the average consumer is charged about &euro;0.30 (24p) to send a text from abroad and Reding wants that slashed to &euro;0.12. She will also call for reductions in the cost of using the internet abroad through a mobile phone, known as "data roaming", which has become a particularly contentious subject recently because of the introduction of the iPhone.The average cost of downloading 1MB of data in the EU is &euro;5.24 (&pound;4). The commission is understood to be considering calling for the price that the mobile phone companies charge each other - known as the wholesale price - for that amount of data to be slashed to &euro;0.35.
We don't have room in print for all your letters and blog pingbacks. But we do here - so click through to see what people really got worked up in during a week of self-reproducing machines, Opera, and the Disgo media recorder.REPRAPWhatever happened to the fab@home machine that you featured years ago and did the same thing? Vinny Cleary, Nottingham [Sean Dodson says: The programme is ongoing. The reason i excluded it is thatthe fab@home cannot self-replicate.]&gt;&gt; I concede it is hard for me to get my mind around what that reality would be like.restivethoughts.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; We are really asking for it.chrisjackson.tumblr.comCONTACT LEDS?&gt;&gt; the idea of a HUD type of holographic workspace really does fascinate me.winextra.com&gt;&gt; Man, I can't wait for the future, it's gonna be sweet!numiko.com&gt;&gt; Like something from a Vernor Vinge novel, it seems that LED computer displays contained within a contact lens are becoming reality. Just one more step in mankind's gradual transformation into cyborgs.michaelsidney.thehoskincentre.comOPERATIC TROUBLE?I have used Opera since Windows 3.1. You and your author did a big disservice to your readers in describing Opera 9.5. Look at the Opera forum athttp://my.opera.com/community/forums/forum.dml?id=26and read stories about people who lost their email, crashes, broken features that have worked for years, pages that used to work but don't now, missing extensions in file cache , pages that still don't work, and on and on. Even Opera admitted ,"We have fixed the worst issues after 9.50 and are preparing for a 9.51 update." athttp://my.opera.com/desktopteam/blog/A general release for mass distribution is not supposed to have "worst issues." Version 9.27 is fine. I have to question did Brown actually use Opera or did he write from a press release. Given the crashes and problems universally reported from users, why didn't he have any. Why didn't he have any of the problems that other people had. It looks like he was using earlier releases and assumed that 9.50 would work like the prior ones. Opera 9.5 was not ready for public distribution M Smith (no post town given)BYE BYE XPVista really is ok - honestly - it just takes some getting used to. The graphics are awesome, much better than XP, and the security system seems far better also. Once you work your way around the laptop and RTFM (read the flamin' manual) it's actually very easy to work things. My only problems came with the fact that I bought my laptop in March 2007, before Vista's service pack upgrade, so there were lots of little probs..., but you just have to google the problems, and someone nearly always has an answer (and I am no computer boffin - honestly, I'm more, just a little anally retented and like things to work...eh..?). The other big problem was that the laptop was sold to me with only 1gig RAM which has been a hassle. Vista needs more than that to operate properly. I shouldn't have been sold a laptop with Vista if the RAM specs weren't up to it... Bought extra RAM now so all ok... This email ain't useful, but it's better telling you guys than my girlfriend again... David Luff, Stoke Newington&gt;&gt; this is yet another sign that Microsoft is actually floundering having a bit of trouble trying to get their direction. First they say yes and they say no then they say yes. Then they say no to going back and forth and back and forth about Windows XP and they are doing this because the market in general public really and truly does not want Windows Vista.my.zestead.comDISGO A GO-GOI just wondered if you knew about the Popcorn Hour networked media player? I've been using one for the last few months and must say it's the best way I've found of getting video from my networked storage and computers onto my TV. It has ethernet as well as a number of video outputs - HDMI, component, composite, and s-video. The user interface is currently pretty basic, I think at the moment it's being targeted at the more computer-literate user. It's certainly not as slick as the Apple TV! As the product line develops, I can see this kind of device coming more into the mainstream. I ordered my unit from the company's own site - taking advantage of the USD-GBP exchange rate. It worked out at roughly £140 all in. Take a look -http://www.popcornhour.comColin MacLean, LivingstonCharles Arthur (July 3rd Technology Guardian) praises the Disgo too highly - the 640x480 resolution he mentions is somewhat less than SD PAL which is actually 720x576 non-square pixels. Roger Shufflebottom, HertfordINTELLIGENT GAMERS?&gt;&gt; I like this story in The Guardian, not only because it highlights us, but because it presents how much it's not only about "shallow vs. deep" or "violent vs. peaceful," but about a real passion to diversify the interactive audience and present new models to think aboutimpactgames.comOYSTER STILL YOUR WORLDIn response to Stephen Moffitt (Technology, Letters and blogs, July 03) I would reassure all Barclaycard OnePulse customers that in the unlikely event of the Oyster function of a card being manipulated, it would not make the payments part of the card vulnerable.    The two applications are entirely separate, both physically on the card's chip and in terms of the software used to operate them. Barclaycard is always looking to provide innovative products that make life easier for our customers but security is paramount. Richard Mould, Head of contactless card development, BarclaycardI write to reassure Don Keller (Technology, Letters and blogs, 3rd July) and all TfL customers that no personal information is stored on an Oyster card, whether you use pay as you go or a season ticket. Personal data is held securely on a remote database. Far from being complacent about claims from Radboud University, TfL has re-examined its security measures and found them to be robust. Londoners can have confidence in the security of their cards and details on the Oyster system. This was a manipulation of a single Oyster card not a hack of the Oyster system. Shashi Verma, Director of Fares and Ticketing, Transport for LondonBAN DAB!DAB radios should be banned! We know the sound quality is inferior to VHF and CD, they cost more than VHF and they use more electricity (up to 4x as much), and most of us dont want another 30 stations to listen to. And we have seven VHF radios in active use in our house (two HiFi mains, two bedroom alarm clocks, two portable, one car radio), and it is environmentally horrific to think of 10 million households chucking out and replacing 70 million radios. David Williams, CirencesterVIRGIN AND COPYRIGHTMy virgin experience is interesting in relation to this latest story, 1 month after virgin net became virgin media my internet connection became amazingly erratic, i'm pretty tech savvy so could monitor the situation and found the solution after some time. after i had bought a new router and wireless hub before isolating the issue. I had enabled a piece of software on my mac that would look for american tv shows, this in turn would start up a torrent program. The connection problem was directly tied into this, the second any torrent software was opened or activated the connection would cut off, and would only restart again after the torrent software had been quit and the router rebooted. They may be saying that they are not threatening to cut users off but this technique of disabling the connection once one of the torrent ports are activated seems to suggest otherwise. I suspect that there will be a sharp increase in incidents like this from them other ISPs as the pressure from music companies increases,as it is completely deniable, and very simple for them to do. Anyway after two months of arguing with the premium rate telephone support, i just quit the service and went to be, with who everything has been happy every since. (name and address supplied)BIG SKYI have just noticed the article "TV innovators who think inside the box" from last November (better late than never, I guess). You make mention of the free Copy+ software (www.skycopyplus.co.uk), which I run the website for (a friend and ex-work colleague of mine writes the actual software that goes onto your PC). First of all, many thanks for the mention in the article. In it, you make mention of Paul Kinsler upgrading his Sky box to a 250 GB hard drive. Bigger hard drives have been impossible in the past mainly due to a bug in the Sky software that prevents anything above 270 GB from being recognised. However, Copy+ is able to correct for this and it is known that a 1 TB drive can now be operated in a Sky box. That's a lot of television. David Artiss, Website Manager, Sky Copy+
"What started as a microprotest on Mr Culberson's Twitter page became a macroconflict on Capitol Hill with the two sides feuding on blogs, BlackBerrys and the old-fashioned way -- face-to-face meetings in the halls of Congress," saysThe New York Times.Because of rules proposed by Mr Capuano, Democrat of Massachusetts, "to prevent members from using public money to communicate on outside Web sites featuring commercial and political advertisements," Culberson tweeted:"Before I could post a Tweet I would have to get approval of the twits that run the House!" And an hour later: "The Dems will do this unless the Internet community stops them."But Mr Capuano says in a statement: "We are not currently seeking to address anything other than video -- not blog postings, online chats or any other written form of communication anywhere on the Internet. Any assertion to the contrary is a lie."They'll probably work something out. New technologies emerge, and some politicians will always try to get an edge by using them before they become widely accepted. Still, the gap between emergence and exploitation is getting shorter all the time....
USA Today is claiming that women are doing better in technology, in a story headlinedWomen break to front of tech. It says: "A wave of female CEOs is putting a new face on the once male-dominated industry. These technically astute up-and-comers are benefiting from more start-ups, plenty of funding and lower costs to start a Web 2.0 company."The evidence includes Eva Chen from Trend Micro, Michelle Peluso from Travelocity, Gina Bianchini from social-networking Ning, Teresa Phillips from Graspr, Tina Sharkey from BabyCenter.com and Selina Lo from Ruckus Wireless. Anther woman in a position of some power is Marissa Mayer at Google, though she's not CEO. There's also Sheryl Sandberg at Facebook, and Sue Decker at Yahoo.On the other hand, the tech industry can no longer claim some once-prominent leaders: eBay's Meg Whitman, Hewlett-Packard's Carly Fiorina and Autodesk's Carol Bartz are all now former CEOs. And however much influence she might yield, Hillary Rodham Clinton is probably not going to end up running the USA soon, as once seemed likely.Indeed, on Friday, The Mercury News headline wasFemale CEOs at top Silicon Valley tech firms down to zero, following the shock replacement of VMware's Diane Greene (below). The story says:"The valley's abuzz" about Greene's departure, said Nicole Woolsey Biggart, dean of the graduate school of management at the University of California-Davis, which conducts an annual survey of women executives and directors at the state's biggest public companies."It's certainly a moral blow for women who see her as an aspirational model, whenever someone who is widely admired leaves a very visible position," Biggart said.At best, we seem to have gone from "hardly any" female CEOs to "very few", which doesn't seem much to boast about. But do you think Web 2.0 will actually give women a chance, or will it turn out to be business as usual, just like the computing and software businesses?
MondayMobile MondayTuesdayMicrosoft think Wii is a noveltyVirtual policy 08Wikigame toddling along nicelyWednesdayFeeling Lively?Will we ever get a new Elite game?Go SchizoidThursdayNintendo music funiPhone and gamingBest of Chatterbox
Car names can be pretty stupid, can't they? I mean, take this one. Agila means eagle, I believe. And yet this nippy little city car is about as uneagle-like as it's possible for a car to be. Vauxhall Sparrow would have been better. Perhaps it is named after the Visigothic King of Hispania who ruled the Iberian Peninsula in the middle of the sixth century. I doubt it, though - unless King Agila was a small and frugal man, smart but hardly regal. Or maybe it's meant to sound like agile (is the g soft?). To make things even more complicated, the Agila is almost exactly the same as a Suzuki Splash, presumably so called because you have to splash out a bit more on it.Anyway, name aside, the new Agila is very nice. It's certainly a big improvement on the old Agila, which should have been called the Vauxhall Box. Perhaps it doesn't have the character of the new Fiat Panda, but I can still see owners giving theirs names. I would call mine Christina. Christina Agila.I can also imagine the kind of driver an Agila would attract: a confidently stylish, professional woman, possibly in PR, nipping cheekily through the traffic. Look, here she is, in fact, in the Vauxhall brochure. Judging by this, and the other pictures, it's certainly women they've got their eye on. I think I need to get the opinion of one ...Oh. My so-called girlfriend's gone backpacking in bloody Bolivia, and she's the only one I know. Knew. Well, there is my mum, I suppose - she's not exactly in PR, but she is a woman, she'll have to do. I go round to see my mum, to introduce her to Christina.Mum thinks I could have done a bit better. The seats - which are blue - are quite hard, she says, not as comfy as the ones in my brother's ancient Volvo. And the noise of the indicators annoys her. I think she's being harsh on the seats, but she's certainly got a point about the indicators, which emit a mournful wheezing sound, as if to say, "This corner is my last, before I die."We don't have any PR meetings to drive to, and neither of us wants to go to the gym, which is somewhere else I can imagine an Agila going. So we head instead to a garden centre. I want to get a fuchsia, so we can put it behind us and say we're driving back to the fuchsia, but Mum doesn't want a fuchsia. So we get a nice bushy cistus instead. So bushy it doesn't fit in the boot. There's just about room for a laptop back there, and your gym kit. And, if you believe the pictures in the brochure, a buggy - though this isn't really a car to put kids into. Or shrubs. The cistus has to go on the back seat.On the road, it's exactly as you'd imagine - nippy, agile, without being exciting. You wouldn't want to throw it into corners, and not just because of the cistus on the back seat. This car is for the city, not the racetrack. My only criticism, apart from the indicators, is that I'm too tall to read the rev meter that pops out of the top of the dashboard like an afterthought, or a frog's eye. But then this is a lady's car, and ladies are less tall, on the whole. And actually it's superfluous because ladies are, on the whole, less interested in revs. Mum doesn't even know what they are, apart from the ones you find in churches.Price:£9,959Top speed109mphAcceleration0-62 in 12.3 secondsAverage consumption51.4mpgCO2 emissions131g/kmEco rating8/10At the wheelBridget JonesIn a wordUneagle-like
Over recent years, it has become a staple image of the technology industry: hundreds of gadget fans queueing all night to get their hands on the latest trendy gizmo from Apple. But eager devotees across Britain were left angry and frustrated yesterday after a series of problems hit the launch of the Californian company's latest product, the iPhone 3G.The latest version of Apple's mobile phone - a faster model than the original iPhone released last November - was unveiled at shops around the world with much fanfare yesterday morning.Instead of getting their new toy, however, thousands of British customers were delayed as a glitch hit the computerised credit checking system belonging to the mobile network operator O2."We can confirm that Apple stores are having technical issues connecting to the O2 systems," a spokesman said at the height of the problems. "We are working to get the systems back up to full speed as quickly as possible." Hundreds of customers arrived early at shops around the country for the launch at 8.02am - even the time itself chosen to squeeze out a little extra publicity for the launch. Minutes later, however, queues began to back up and new purchases failed to register."I was in the queue from 7am and didn't get served until 11.30am as their systems went down," said one disgruntled customer on the Guardian website. "It took around 40 minutes for each customer's credit decision to be made and at the end of all that they only had four 16 gigabyte models in stock - and this was the flagship Manchester store." Some dedicated customers took several hours to get their hands on an iPhone, while others simply gave up. "It's not ideal, but that's life," said 26-year-old Chris Moorby, who had queued outside the flagship Apple shop in Regent Street, London. "I'm leaving now because I've got to go to work."Last night the problems were being blamed on the sudden influx of customers, which crashed the system and forced staff to run manual checks on all new accounts. However, it remains unclear why O2 did not anticipate the surge in demand. Carphone Warehouse, another chain selling the handset, had already announced that interest in the iPhone 3G was up to 10 times greater than its predecessor, and last week O2's website collapsed under the weight of traffic when it opened for orders.But it was not only O2 which was struggling. A customer from Stafford, who had ordered his iPhone 3G online through Carphone Warehouse, said he had received a guarantee on Thursday evening that it would be delivered the next day. "I stayed at home for the delivery, but it never arrived," he said. "I finally got through to them on the phone and they said nobody would be receiving their orders until after the weekend. I've now cancelled my order."Observers largely blamed the crash on onerous new sign-up procedures to try to reduce so-called "unlockers". These customers - who fail to sign up to a contract and use their iPhones on a different mobile network - are now forced to sign on the spot, and must provide photographic ID and detailed personal information.Apple is desperate to make an impact on the enormous mobile phone market. The iPhone 3G boasts faster internet connection, satellite navigation and access to an online shop full of downloadable programs.O2 has an exclusive contract to provide service to iPhones in Britain, and could come under pressure from the US technology giant if such problems continue.Ian Fogg, a mobile industry analyst with Jupiter Research, said that all would be forgotten if O2 managed to get its systems working smoothly - but customers could still find it hard to get hold of an iPhone 3G if the gadget proved as popular as it appears. "Really these day one teething problems are just that," he said. "One of the big challenges for hit products is making sure that you've got enough to meet demand."
I have some photos on an old Samsung E350 mobile that I want to upload to my PC - but the software doesn't recognise that the handset is connected. It doesn't have Bluetooth capability. Can you help?If the information you want is locked in your old sim card, then all you'll need is a card reader. This inexpensive gizmo (about &pound;15) plugs into your USB port and should let you pull your data straight on to your PC. However, lots of people with this model phone have reported similar problems without many answers. You could try downloading a newer version from the support pages atuk.samsungmobile.com, or buy a cable and software pack from a website such asdatakits.co.uk(&pound;6). In the end, though, your best bet may be sending the pictures as a multi-media message to somebody else and asking them to download them.I have an Ion USB turntable that lets me download my vinyl records as files. Can I use it as an ordinary deck to play LPs and hear them through the speakers on my mini hi-fi?The Ion has RCA outputs - that means you should be able to plug it into a hi-fi's AUX port using ordinary phono cables, although many mini stereo systems can't take external outputs.
1978, Blantyre, Malawi. Beneath a bough of bougainvillea, a 10 year old is talking about a revolution. Crouched by a wire fence, I'm using a large spoon and my mother's Grundig Music Boy to liaise with President Nyerere's troops across the border in Tanzania. Our joint mission: to overthrow the dictatorship of Hastings Kamuzu Banda, the Malawian leader.Soon after, I'm in serious trouble, having snapped the Grundig's telescopic antenna. Of this I am certain: had I had my father's much larger Eddystone Marine short-wave set, with its own wire aerial that drapes from tree to tree, President Nyerere would have replied.1980, Tarbert, Kerry. At the back of the stables, a big Bakelite radio is unearthed. It works! I wheel the creaking dial back through Helsinki, Luxembourg, Athlone ... I decide I'm going to dismantle it, in order to make a transmitter. I remove valves from their sockets, lift the cable from tuning wheel, unwind transformers. In the midst of it all, wax is discovered, slathering chunky capacitors, covering insect-like resistors. Nothing comes of the dissection. No transmission is ever heard again, never mind sent.It is fantasy. These radios are just receivers. When in the depot of my boarding school's army cadet corps, I glimpse from under my beret a big British Army wireless (complete with microphone and headset), I set my heart on genuine transmission. Seeing the vast array of equipment of a blind great-uncle who is a radio amateur whets my appetite further.1982, Malvern, Worcestershire. Beginning with a Radio Shack breadboard, I assemble according to instructions a morse code transmitter. It makes dots and dashes appear on nearby television screens. Later, I graduate to an illegal CB radio set, complete with whippy aerial. I stash the transceiver in my study bedroom, running coaxial cable up to a roof parapet where the antenna can stand.I achieve some success with my "one four for a copy" bids for contact. For a brief period, CB becomes a means of meeting girls in town. And there they end, my radio days. The desperate need to communicate is diverted into relationships - and that other world of joy and pain, writing.As the years go by, CB goes legit. Mobile phones arrive, the internet comes on stream. On a vast scale, the desperate need is fulfilled; yet at the same time, curiously, it's denied all the more. Meanwhile the radio amateur, like his shed-bound confr&egrave;re the practical engineer, is edged further to the fringes of society.What use, then, the Motorola Tlkr T5s, a pair of stylish two-way radios (&pound;59.99, fromamazon.co.uk, or Currys stores nationwide)? They're certainly not much cop in the city - obstructions affect the range of transmission - but the baby monitor function is useful. The T5s come into their own during outdoor adventures. I achieved good results testing ours on Exmoor, in a spot where mobile phone reception was not available. There are five call tones, so a number of T5s could effectively be used as a mini phone net. After mobiles, it's hard getting used to the stop-start effect of send and receive.My Motorolas come under the PMR 446 (Personal Mobile Radio, 446 Mhz) licence exemption of the European Union. This exemption is for consumer-grade walkie-talkies to be used anywhere in Europe. PMRs give an average range of four miles, depending on terrain.But radio waves can do strange things. The long-distance record for PMR 446 is more than 300 miles, from Blyth in Northumberland to Almere in the Netherlands. There are eight standard channels and any PMR 446 radio from any brand should be compatible with any other PMR 446 radio. The Motorolas also have 121 subchannels, which gets round the problem of too many other people using them. Then again, I didn't hear another soul apart from my young son squawking "over, over". His radio days are just beginning.They may involve these kinds of radios; all over Europe, people are using a combination of the internet and PMRs to set up outfits such as the Free Radio Network (freeradionetwork.nl) as a way of sidestepping mobile phone operators. So the revolution continues.
The Industry Standard knows how to hold a grudge on behalf of Apple-lovers everywhere: note who dissed the iPhone before it launched, and thenask them a year laterwhat theynowthink.So they line upSteveDan [ta, MrProject] Gillmor:the dazzle is based in siginficant part on the way it works.. definitely a breakthrough in that category for at least some uses... No other device does exactly what the iPhone does. Conversely, the iPhone doesn't come close to matching the most valuable features of the devices I do use, namely the Blackberry Curve and Nokia N95.He hasn't bought one.Next: Tim Wu, of Columbia Law School and Slate magazine, who earlier said "Saying the iPhone is a pointless gadget is a bit too strong. But it isn't yet a revolutionary device."Now he says that "by comparison most other phones are intolerable." But he insists that he wasn't saying it wouldn't be successful, but that it wouldn't change industry structure. (Think he's right there.) He's had a hacked (1.0) iPhone "for a while now."Lucas Mearian, storage channel editor at Computerworld, Geoff Long of CommsDay (who wrote a column saying "Why the iPhone will fail") and Rob Enderle of, um, the Enderle Group who said "Not everyone buys the hype" all get their day in court - Enderle says he is "a little bit surprised, given how poorly it does email and texting" and that "without Apple marketing I doubt it would have done nearly as well."And then there's Steve Ballmer, who said in a TV interview: "Five hundred dollars? .. That is the most expensive phone in the world. And it doesn't appeal to business because it doesn't have a keyboard."And now? Ah, um. "Unfortunately," said the PR firm, "Steve is unable to participate in this interview request due to his busy calendar."John Dvorak said "there's no likelihood that Apple can be successful in a business this competitive." Did not, it seems, reply to email. And then even Bill Ray of good old Blighty's Registerwho said"After a year a new version will be launched, but it will lack the innovation of the first and quickly vanish." Apparently he couldn't comment because of the terms of his contract with El Reg.So there you have it. Who'd have thought we'd see the day when Steve Ballmer and The Register would offer the same responses on the iPhone?
ThePaidContent bloggot scooped on its own story, which is: "Almost six years after our company started with paidContent.org, we have been acquired by Guardian News &amp; Media (GNM), the news media division of UK-headquartered Guardian Media Group (GMG)." Scroll down and it also has the press release.The site says: "We will be part of Guardian Professional group, which is the B2B media division for GNM, and runs targeted sites such the MediaGuardian, as well as online data businesses and conferences."Media Guardian also has the story, by Jemima Kiss (Guardian News &amp; Media buys PaidContent publisher) who used to freelance for PaidContent. She's also just blogged it at ourPDA blog.I think Kara Swisher broke the story on the Wall Street Journal'sAll Things Dsite, saying: "In what will be seen as a new media coup, sources tell BoomTown that Britain's Guardian Media Group is set to announce this morning that it will buy the company that runs the high-profile digital media news site paidContent for a price 'north of $30 million'."AtBuzzmachine, media guru, journalism professor, blogger and Guardian columnist Jeff Jarvis says: "I think this is a great move for both."
Executives from Activision and Vivendi Games are celebrating the completion of their $19bn (£9.7bn) merger today, after shareholders approved the deal.The new company – to be known as Activision Blizzard – brings together two of the expanding interactive entertainment industry's largest players, which between them are responsible for some of its most successful titles.Activision, headquartered in Santa Monica, is most famous for games such as Guitar Hero and the Spider-Man franchise, while Vivendi Games is best known for its flagship studio Blizzard – creators of the hugely popular World of Warcraft online game, which has more than 10 million paying subscribers.Activision Blizzard is set to be the single most profitable video games company in the world, with one analyst suggesting that annual profits in its first year are likely to exceed $1bn (£511m).It also allows the new organisation to challenge the dominance of Electronic Arts, maker of popular games such as The Sims and the Fifa football series, and surpass it with combined annual revenues in excess of £2bn."Activision is a leader in the console business, and Vivendi is a leader in the online PC games industry," said Jean-Bernard Levy, chief executive of parent company Vivendi. "I think this combination makes us a very powerful leader in the industry."Although Vivendi will own a 52% stake in the new group, executives decided to ditch the French parent company's brand in favour of its better-known subsidiary.Robert Kotick, the chief executive of the new company, said that he aimed to build on recent successes in Asia, adding that Blizzard had "a level of awareness among consumers in Asian countries that is much higher than usual for a western company"."They've also invested hundreds of millions in infrastructure around the world which we can use," he said. "Plus we get the association with Vivendi and the opportunities that brings – the chance to work more closely with Universal Music in our Guitar Hero games, for example, is an affiliation which is bound to be helpful."Despite concerns that an economic downturn could lead to a drop in consumer spending, Levy said he was confident that the new company could survive a downturn.He told the Guardian that he expected the price of the recent generation of games consoles – including Microsoft's Xbox 360 and the Sony PlayStation 3 – to continue falling, without consumers cutting back on the amount they spend on games."We are a very cheap way to get entertained in terms of cost per hour," he said. "If and when people tighten their belts in terms of entertainment – which won't happen as quickly as with travel costs, for example – it's quite likely that we won't suffer too much."
DefectiveByDesign.org, a project of Richard Stallman'sFree Software Foundation, has posted5 reasons to avoid iPhone 3G.Obviously they're not concerned about the iPhone's well known lack of commonly-used features (no voice dialing or video recording or copy-and-paste or MMS or memory card slot etc), but they are concerned about the lack of some not-so-commonly-used features, eg "iPhone won't play patent- and DRM-free formats like Ogg Vorbis and Theora".The post also plugs a potential rival:* iPhone is not the only option. There are better alternatives on the horizon that respect your freedom, don't spy on you, play free media formats, and let you use free software -- like the FreeRunner (http://www.openmoko.com).Full credit to DBD for hitching a ride on today's iPhone mania, but I suspect they are not going to get very far with potential iPhone buyers. Not only do they not care about Freedom, they are probably very happy with Apple's beautifully Orwellian marketing strategy: Slavery is Freedom (as long as you're a slave to Apple).In any case, Slavery is the modus operandi in the mobile market, and probably will be until Google'sAndroidorLiMo(Linux Mobile) or an open source Symbian provide some real competition. The FSF is based on the belief that Freedom is more important than things like design and usability, and that's not going to have much impact on people who just want the latest well designed, very usable, shiny shiny trinket.[Note: an early GSM version of FreeRunner ison sale nowin the UK. "It comprises functional hardware with a very early, incomplete software stack." But it's open source, so you can write the missing features yourself...]
So, finally, the third-party iPhone and iPod Touch apps are here. It's only taken Apple, what, a month or two short of seven years to turn the iPod from something that people laughed at and dismissed into a fully-fledged platform on which other people build applications. (I've written previously about how important these third-party iPhone and iPod applications are to Apple.) For the phone itself, only about 18 months.And what do we find are the fruits of that labour?Courtesy of John Gruber, who's been watching what people downloaded on the first day, we discover that the most popular paid-for application was Sega's Super Monkey Ball,with 10,955 downloads (at $9.99 each) in the first 24 hours. He calculates that to be $109,440 in total, about $76,000 for Sega and $33,000 for Apple under the 70–30 revenue deal.He also notes that when people have a choice of free vs paid apps, they split (at least to begin with) about 50–1 in favour of free. That 2% "conversion rate"  is certainly interesting (though of course once people have been using the phone for longer, the figure will probably rise).But if you thought that the first appearance of the iPhone's third-party apps would be marked by people producing fantastically clever applications that would let you calculate your carbon footprint and amortise the price of a gallon of petrol while controlling your washing machine, you'll be disappointed. And if you thought too that Apple's reputation for producing products with great engineering and user interfaces would somehow be transmitted over to third-party builders, prepare to be doubly disappointed. People have such strange ideas of what makes a good interface.For example, have a look at theSudoku game(with sound effects!) on the linked video. Now ask yourself: is that as legible as it could possibly be? Is it as simple to use as it could be? Why, for example, have a dark star background? Why not white? And when you're entering a number in a square, why not have the list of possible numbers come up in the square? (I'll admit to a slight Sudoku addiction – though obviously I could give it up any time – and useSudoku Susseron my computer, which while having a quite horrendous user interface away from the grid, does at least start with a clean, black-on-white grid. Honest.)There's also plenty of criticism of iPhone interface design: Gruber and commenters pretty muchflayed the work of a company that wrote a "trip-meter" called TripLog1040 to measure your distance travelled. At first glance you might think it was acceptable.  On the iPhone, though, millimetres matter. It may be the first screen where that's the case. (Other people tried redesigns: here'sone, andanother.But such elementary mistakes in design are the sorts of things that you have to expect from a nascent platform. After all, what do we all remember from our first unfettered experiences of using Microsoft's Windows? Yup, discovering the games – solitaire and Minesweeper, which were designed to train people not used to using the mouse, while they thought they were just bunking off.It's like the evolution of a rainforest: you can't have the soaring canopy of trees and the rich wildlife below without first having all the compost at the bottom. Some of the free apps are probably ofnegativevalue, inasmuch as they take up storage space you could use for something else: anyone forYes/No(iTunes-only URL)? This app will make those hard decisions for you without your having to toss one of those expensive "coins". OrHold On, in which you "compete to see how long you can hold the button"?Yeah, well, don't worry. The trivia won't necessarily get washed away; it'll exist, somewhere in cyberspace. But in time we'll start to get the really useful products. Indeed, some of them may already be there.Fraser Speirs's Exposure, a Flickr client, has the fascinating "Near Me" button: click it and any geotagged photos on Flickr that were taken near your current location will be shown – because the new iPhone has GPS, of course. That's just the start. The rainforest is growing. Don't worry about all the compost on the ground. It's all just getting started.
Nicolas S has 17 online friends, among them the glamorous Rachida D and debonair Bernard K. His religion is listed as "all of them — as long as they love me," and favourite quotes include "How much is that Rolex?" and "Can I borrow your yacht?"Facebookfans have no fear: President Sarkozy has not decided to bare all on the ever-growing social networking site. But he has fallen victim to the latest internet craze in France: a satirical website that harnesses the collective clout of the internet and takes aim at the political elite.The brainchild of two students who wanted to create an irreverent portrait of the country's leaders and their opponents,Failbookis a spoof networking site which allows members of the public to create politicians' profiles.Although still in its early days — the site only launched last week — thousands of visitors are already logging on and delighting in the opportunity to poke fun at their chosen target.For its creators, who want to remain anonymous, the similarity between forensic media coverage and obsessive social networking was too tempting to ignore."We live in a world where the slightest development is covered in the media, and, at the same time, we have Facebook, where people have killed off their private lives and build up reputations by putting everything up in public," said one. "We wanted to use this analogy for a lighter treatment of politics. We're so used to seeing the same analyses day in, day out that we wanted to dramatise it a bit — and send it up."Yesterday on Failbook the understated prime minister, Francois Fillon, joined a group called: "I don't like Carla Bruni's new album and I don't mind admitting it." Marine LP (Le Pen) writes excitedly on her father's wall about a film she has just seen portraying an all-white Paris "with no Arabs and no blacks".The spoof of Jean Sarkozy — the president's son, who himself was recently elected to political office, describes his religion as "ambition", while Justice Minister Rachida Dati's interests are listed succinctly as: "Dior tailoring, Chanel shirts and Stalinist authoritarianism."According to Pierre Brechon, professor at the prestigious Sciences Po university in Grenoble, the younger generation in France is less idealistic and more critical of its political leaders than those before it. That tendency, combined with the new platform of the internet, has led to new forms of parody, he said."French satire has always existed, long before the web did, and it has often been extremely ferocious," he said. "Nowadays, through the web, it can reach a public which is much larger and much more varied than before."
Middle England's howitzers have turned full force on Google today, as theDaily Mailfinally wanders into the debate about the legal status of Google Street View.The paper's front page is screaming furiously that the arrival of Street View in the UK could be a privacy-invading nightmare - saying Google's cars "WILL PHOTOGRAPH EVERY DOOR IN BRITAIN".The story follows up in no uncertain terms:The internet giant's StreetView website will allow anyone in the world to type in a UK address or postcode and instantly see a 360-degree picture of the street.It will include close-ups of buildings, cars and people. Critics say the site is a 'burglar's charter' that makes it easy for criminals to check out potential victims.It's an issue we've been following for months, of course: with stories likethis one by Mary Bowers in April, andthis follow-up by Richard Wray in May. That's as well as posts by (among others)Kevin AndersonofJemima Kissalong the way, among others.For the Mail's part, the story fits with itslove hate relationshipwith surveillance technology, but doesn't take the facts any further than the storypublished by the BBC a week ago.However, the paper's influence and its spittle-spewing rage are new additions to the mix - and there's an extra political angle, too.Just as David Davieswins a by-electionstanding on a civil liberties platform, so the Mail continues to support the Tory leader, David Cameron.But in this case, Cameron has very close links with Google -as we've documented in the past- and it'll be interesting to see if the Mail gets the Tory front bench to take a stand on this issue, or if it just slides into history as another one of the paper's moments of fury.Personally, I'm torn. I use the US version of Street View a lot, but don't like the idea of a surveillance society. However, given the number of CCTV cameras which spy on me every day, I'm not sure that a Google car counts as the biggest infringement of my liberties right now.
Excitement over the launch of the iPhone 3G turned to chaos today as computer problems meant customers could not buy the new gadget.Around 150 fans were waiting at the Apple store in Regent Street, London, for the launch of the new phone but had to wait several hours to be connected.Problems with the O2 network, Apple's exclusive partner in the UK, meant hundreds of customers in the store were unable to register their details or process payments. Staff said the large volume of customers trying to register their new phones on the O2 server appeared to have caused the problem.A spokesman for O2 said Apple stores were having "technical issues" connecting to the telecoms company's online systems."Customer interest in iPhone has been phenomenal this morning," he said."We can confirm that Apple stores are having technical issues connecting to O2 systems. The systems are currently working but quite slowly. We are working to get the systems back up to full speed as quickly as possible."Both O2 and Carphone Warehouse stores nationwide have reportedly been affected by the server problems.The new iPhone 3G combines a mobile phone with the capabilities of an iPod to play music and videos, plus an improved web browser with a high-speed internet connection and GPS satellite positioning.Excitement over the launch of Apple's latest offering spread world-wide as some fans queued for up to 60 hours to be among the first to buy one.In London, David Suen, a 27-year-old economics student from Australia, was the first outside the Apple store at 6.30am. He had bought his place in the queue on eBay "for less than £50" from another man who had been waiting since 11am on Thursday.He said he was not blaming Apple for the delay in buying the new phone. "It's fine. It's O2's server that has the fault. It's not really Apple's problem," he said.Second-in-line Antonio Guerra, 19, a London fashion student, said he had been waiting for 19 hours but was happy to wait "a few more".Yesterday O2 warned customers that they did not have enough phones to keep up with demand.A message on O2's website said each of its stores would have just "a few dozen" iPhones to sell today. It said supply issues meant numbers would be limited for weeks but all customers who wanted one would have it "by the end of this summer".Both O2 and Carphone Warehouse had to suspend online orders for the iPhone earlier this week, citing "incredible demand".The new phone costs less than its £269 predecessor, but is still only available in the UK from O2, Carphone Warehouse and Apple stores. O2 and the Carphone Warehouse are giving away the 8Gb version of the iPhone to customers who sign up for tariffs costing £45 or £75 a month.The phone will cost between £59 and £159 for customers on other tariffs.
Well, the day dawns for the launch in the UK of the 3G iPhone, and the people who decided not to queue are getting about as many iPhones as the ones who did.A quick sample from the Twitterverse: Rory Cellan-Jones, the BBC's ubiquitous technology/industrial correspondent,decidedat about 9.50 am that "Can't believe queues at o2 and cpw in Ealing for iphone - giving up". (There's a picture of the queue athttp://twitpic.com/3iz2.)Shane Richmond of the Telegraphfoundat 10am that things were "Still not moving here in Lewisham."Mark Levittannouncedat 10.15 he had "No luck getting a new iPhone. Reading o2 store has a queue of 70 and only 25 16g iPhones." (To which Richmondadded"two hours in the store now and Lewisham O2 still hasn't sold a single phone." (Gotta love these citizen journalists, eh?)Aninteresting pointfrom Steve Lamb: while there are huge queues outside any O2 phone shop, "it's been amusing walking past non-O2 phone shops - feet on desks, no life whatsoever!" (Certainly the contrast in Cambridge, where I was last week, between the Apple Store there and all the other gadget shops, was dramatic. In one it looked like a permanent party. In the others, tumbleweed.)And that's before we get to the question of whether those queueing have brought the necessary ID. O2 has been asking people who want to get their paws on a new iPhone tosend scans of their passport and credit cards. Oh yes.As Scott Colvey explains it:A non-geographic (ie, costly) 0870 telephone number is provided for customers to call – 0870 4444713. This is not the usual O2 customer contact number and is answered in a different way to other O2 numbers. It doesn't Google reassuringly, either. Once answered, the caller is told they are being transferred to an attendent: the phone then rings and rings. And rings some more. We let ours ring for 45 minutes before wising up and calling the main O2 contact number for guidance.....But after spending £3.60 on hold listening to nothing but a ringing tone, we decided to hang up. No matter, our adviser said, we could submit the requested security details electronically. All we had to do was scan our passport or driving license and a credit card and email it to O2. Email is hardly renowned for being a secure method of exchanging personal documents, so we declined this suggestion.O2 later denied that people would really be asked to email their details; instead, it said, they might be asked to scan andfaxthem. Hey, well, that's all right then. It's not as if you don't know who's going to have access to your personal details and... oh, no, hang on.The upshot of the whole thing where O2 is in charge of distributing the 3G iPhone? In the words of Ned Flanders in the Simpsons, "bring out the non-alcoholic alcohol!"Update:Shane Richmondgot his: "got my phone (finally) at 10.20. the computer system was still down so i won't even be fully-upgraded until today or tomorrow." I think that counts as selling the bottle but not the bottle opener.Later:sheer brilliancefrom O2:At the time of writing, however, reports were starting to suggest that there were major problems with the launch once it began. Apple's stores have been unable to activate the handsets because the process requires Internet Explorer, while the stores all use Macs. Also, O2's credit-checking systems appear to have crashed, at least temporarily.For the uninitiated, there hasn't been a version of Internet Explorer for Macs in absolutely years. It might just about run on the modern ones.. though it would be far easier to use browser spoofing. Except, of course, if ActiveX, which is Windows-only, is required.I'm beyond metaphor and simile now...Later still:the Daily Mail has atypically restrained headline- "Fury as iPhone customers forced to wait hours for mobiles after computer meltdown" (meltdown? hours? fury?Fury?Citation for the "fury" stuff, please? The only actualquotein the story from anyone is this:First in the queue at Apple's Regent Street store, David Suen, was still trying to register his new phone an hour after the official launch. He said: 'I keep trying but it won't work. It's a shambles.'So, calling something a "shambles" indicates fury. And I thought that we were such a relaxed nation, as a rule.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Apple's new iPhone 3G went on sale this morning, as the Californian company's latest attempt to capture the public imagination.The first UK iPhone 3G was sold at 8.02am, in a stunt designed to promote the O2 network, which has an exclusive deal to provide iPhone service in the UK.Around 150 people lined up outside the Apple store on London's Regent Street for the chance to get their hands on the new gadget. First in the queue was David Suen, a 27-year-old student at the London School of Economics, who said he had bought his place in the line for "less than £50" from a man who had arrived at 11am yesterday."I've been waiting for this since the last iPhone because of 3G," he said. "It's very exciting."Suen is not alone in holding off buying the gizmo because of its previous lack of higher-speed 3G connectivity. That had been a common complaint among European consumers, who are used to subsidised handsets with faster connections than those in America.Both Apple and O2 hope that the new, faster model — which also incorporates satellite navigation — can drive up sales. The network and Carphone Warehouse, the only independent retailer that will stock the phone in the UK, have both reported greater consumer interest in the new device than its previous model, which went on sale in Britain last November.Not all customers will be able to buy a handset,  however, with O2 warning last nightthat it only had limited stock."On average, we will only have a few dozen iPhone 3Gs per store (some stores more, some stores less, dependant upon store size so we expect to sell out quickly)," the company warned on its website.The new iPhone also has access to a new online shop, which sells downloadable applications including games, web tools and even full copies of the Bible.The store launched yesterday amid much confusion, with customers around the world able to buy applications but not to download them, because the new version of the iPhone software had not yet been made available.
What's your favourite piece of technology?Predictably, my iPhone. I wasn't sure it was all that incredible at first, but realised that the more I use it and the longer I have it, the more useful and impressive it is. I like the way it makes itself better from time to time. It'd be good if all technology could do that.How has it improved your life?Well, "improved" is a strong word. It's still a phone, first and foremost, and at the moment it's just a much slicker and cooler BlackBerry, but I'm confident that in the next couple of years you'll be able to ask me that question again, and I'll be able to answer …When was the last time you used it, and what for?To type the words you're reading now, and in a moment I'll use it to send it to the man who asked me to do so. I'm walking down Upper Street in Islington right now, trying not to bump into bins as I type.What additional features would you add if you could?A torch and a shrill mugging alarm.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Of course. It will be laughable. But we'll still be telling our children: "It was actually very impressive back then." And they'll mock us, and ask us what steam trains were like.What one tip would you give to non-iPhone users?Buy an iPhone. Or come up with a decent argument against them, that does not involve the word "camera".Do you consider yourself to be a Luddite or a nerd?A bit of a nerd. I wear glasses for a start, so I am fundamentally halfway there, but I love new gadgets. Someone sent me a toaster that both toasts your bread and poaches your eggs the other day. It's only worth about 30  quid, but I was ridiculously happy.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?When I was a student I stupidly spent all my savings on a home cinema centre with 10 speakers. I only had a 10-inch TV and a room the size of a table. The entire place was just a bed and speakers.Mac or PC?Mac. Let us finally put this debate to rest.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?At the moment, it's Vampire Weekend, Oxford Comma.Will robots rule the world?Yes. I actually asked a leading roboticist this. He said they will definitely rise up against us. At the moment the only idea to stop them doing this is keeping their batteries within easy reach.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I think a really decent projector. I have a dream of a house in France, the side of a barn, a huge projector, a bunch of mates, an open fire, a crate of beers, and Wii golf …Danny Wallace's new book, Friends Like These, is out now
David Caminer, who has died aged 92, was one of the leaders of the postwar computer revolution. When the modern electronic computer was invented in the last years of the second world war, it was seen as a technology that could help in scientific and technical computations - the first American electronic computer, Eniac, was designed specifically to help the military with the calculation of the trajectories of shells.At that time, David was a soldier in the Green Howards, serving in north Africa. He was wounded at Mareth in Tunisia in 1943, losing a leg, and returned to civilian life by going back to his prewar job with J Lyons &amp; Co, of teashop and Swiss roll fame. He had joined in 1936 as a management trainee. On his return, he was appointed manager of the influential systems analysis office under the direction of John Simmons.In 1947 Simmons sent two colleagues, TR Thompson and Oliver Standingford, to study office innovations in the US. They came across the new electronic computers and realised that they could be used to solve the problems of keeping track of and accounting for Lyons' multiple activities in the catering and food processing world. Astonishingly, the idea was accepted by Simmons and the Lyons board.A new venture, the Leo (Lyons electronic office), was started under the direction of Thompson: its task was to build and bring into use in Lyons offices the world's first business computer, based on the Cambridge University Edsac. David joined this band of pioneers and saw immediately that the computer could do more than copy what was being done in offices by clerks with conventional business machines. With proper design, the computer could be used to support management activities and improve the way the company was run. As a result, many of the systems designed by David and his team were as advanced in concept as any are today. For a brief period, the work at Lyons led the world in the application of computers to business problems.As one of his team, John Aris, later suggested, David invented what we now call systems engineering. By 1953 the team, under David's detailed and imaginative guidance, were turning out a succession of business applications for Lyons and other companies, and in the following year the Lyons weekly payroll for nearly 1,700 bakery workers was automated, along with a stock system for the 250 teashops. The systems analysis office learned that successful systems depend on a complete under-standing of the business processes being examined and the need to work with the people who operate them.For those of us who worked for him, there was constant excitement as new ground was being broken. At the same time David's fierce and rigorous enforcement of meticulous standards could become a source of misery. He frequently drove his team to achieve the unattainable. By the time a piece of documentation had been returned to its author half a dozen times to correct the content, language and style,  frustration might have set in. But the lessons were learned. Working with David proved to be the most important period in our lives.In the 1970s, with the merger of the various branches of the UK computer industry into ICL, David was entrusted with the management of one of the largest projects attempted at that time, for the European Community. For completing that project on time and budget, David received his OBE (for services to British commercial interests overseas) in 1980 and, in 2006, he received an honorary doctorate from Middlesex University. In his later years, he could not understand the prevalence of failed computer projects. Would the methods he devised in the early years, combined with his vision, have saved many of the failed or failing projects?David retired in 1980, then set up the Leo Foundation and spearheaded the 2001 conference at the London Guildhall to celebrate the running of the world's first business application on a computer 50 years earlier at the Cadby Hall headquarters of Lyons. He was the principal author of Leo: The Incredible Story of the World's First Business Computer (1998).Born in Hackney, east London, David went to Sloane school, Fulham, and was a keen rugby player in his earlier years. He never lost his love for cricket - he was a member of the MCC - football (Chelsea) and rugby union. He was also an opera lover. He and his wife Jackie were still going to concerts, plays and sporting events until his final illness. Though not a man of strong religious beliefs, he had a high regard for the traditions of the Jewish community, to which he was highly committed.He took an active part in the battles against Oswald Mosley in the 1930s and 40s, culminating with his appearance as a platform speaker at a rally in Trafalgar Square rally in 1943. He continued to have a lively and trenchant view of politics. In later years, he took an active role in his local Labour party and spearheaded the Anti-Apartheid Movement, personally welcoming Archbishop Desmond Tutu to his borough of Richmond upon Thames in support of the campaign.He is survived by his wife, two daughters, a son and five grandchildren.&#183;David Tresman Caminer, business computer engineer, born June 26 1915; died June 19 2008
BT is in talks to buy Silicon Valley internet-phone software developer Ribbit as it looks to create a one-number web-based communications platform to take on the likes of Google and Skype in the burgeoning online telecoms market.Ribbit, founded two years ago and based near Google's headquarters in Mountain View, claims to be "Silicon Valley's first phone company". It has created software that allows programmers to design applications that tie together mobile phones, fixed-line phones and even social networking sites into a single online communications hub.Ribbit allows any software developer to use its technology to create applications, in the same way as Google has opened up its soon to launch mobile phone operating system android and Apple has allowed other people to develop software for the iPhone.There are a number of communications tools such as Evernote - which allows forgetful iPhone users to access their "to do" lists from their phone or computer -   which are designed to integrate the mobile phone with internet-based services.Bringing together the information stored on the web with mobile phones, a trend known as unified communications, has been mooted for many years. But the take-up of broadband and the creation of fast mobile phone networks has made it easier to achieve. Last year Google snapped up another Californian company involved in this area, called GrandCentral, for about $50m.BT is understood to have offered as much as $55m (&pound;28m) for Ribbit, although a deal has not yet been signed. BT refused to comment yesterday.Ribbit's technology has already been used by a number of third party application developers. American business communications group Salesforce.com has a Ribbit-based application that lets the company's sales people keep track of all their calls and contacts through a single web page.Ribbit is also testing a consumer platform called amphibian, which looks like a social networking site with a phone attached. It allows users to convert voicemail messages left on their mobile into text which can be read online, so users can search for keywords. Calls can be patched through from a mobile to a computer; not only will the caller's number be displayed but amphibian can pull up their profile and latest postings from sites such as Flickr, LinkedIn and Twitter. Calls from other web-based telephone services such as GoogleTalk and Skype can also be accessed.
A day late again, but lots to get through, plus the added confusion of us accidentally not putting up a Chatterbox post on a couple of days.Still, got there in the end, so if you missed any Chatterbox fun this week, here's the best of what the readers had to say. This week: tragic romance, facial hair and why you should never walk out of a film (especially not Don't Look Now, you muppet).Okay, brace yourselves. Here goes...Friday saw a smattering of talk about PS3's new trophy system, reined in slightly by the fact that only Super Stardust was compatible at the time. This inexplicably gave way to a short Manic Miner vs Jet Set Willy face-off, into which Lazybones lobbed the tangential, "Auf Wiedersehen Monty was a peak in gaming". There was talk of game trade-ins too, specifically, what you could hope to get for titles like GTA IV and CoD IV - it seems to vary from chain to chain, and even from store to store. It's topical stuff, of course, what with HMV'sdecisionto star dealing in pre-owned games.Monday began with an explosion of questions - what are everyone's favourite GTA moments? What does the Xbox 360 look like through a CRT TV? Was Andy Cole a good signing? OfficePest's 'best musical score' topic received lots of replies, with plenty of Japanese RPG classics cropping up. Briefly, the subject of girls and FPS games emerged prompting LarryLoxley's recollection of a familiar theory:Someone was doing a piece on this before. They argued that the reason why most 'blokes' like games is because men are all about the visual and the spatial (think of mens ability to read maps and enjoy p0rn) wheras girls are all about the emotional and the abstract. Hence a game about your 'feelings' and 'empathy' may switch around the roles of running around in circles whilst looking up at the ceiling.Continuing the feminine theme, a conversation developed about office crushes (or "workplace trouble", as they became known). This was instigated by DanBob's Morrissey-esque post about unrequited love amid the 9-5 routine (see below). What a sensitive bunch. From there, literature, specifically everyone's top five favourite books - Alan Moore, Joseph Conrad, George Orwell, Aldous Huxley and Raymond Chandler all cropped up. Is this a videogame site or just about the best darn book club on the web? (For the record mine are Catch 22, Treasure Island, Lord of the Flies, Great Expectations and Blue Afternoon by William Boyd).Tuesday felt like Déjà vu - More warhawk, Silvefox having router problems, someone asking if Ferrari Challenge is any good (It's okay! If you really like Ferraris!), lots of book chatter... Then a discussion about the differences between music festivals in the north and south: north = punk and nasty, south = cider and chilled. And chilled cider.The first mention of E3 took place on Wednesday morning. Then Roarrr picked up on something I meant to blog about but didn't get time - Sony's fascinating Zombie game, Last Guy, which uses Goggle Earth to create battle locations. With my typing 'skills' I'll have to be careful writing about that game in the future - how long before I inevitably get the vowels mixed up and create my own Google Earth/videogame lifestyle sensation?And then, somehow, shaving took over...Today. More football, more Linux, the rain, the rain... the rain it raineth everyday.MoviesThe Kingdom Wall-E Mamma Mia Hancock Stardust The Mist Don't Look Now Funny GamesGamesWarhawk Metal Gear Online Race Driver Grid Chuckie Egg MGS4 Buzz DMC4 Blood Siren WoW Harvest moonMusicNeutral Milk Hotel Sonny J Bon Iver (yay!)Questions of the weekAccrington Stanley? (Riffmagus) Best musical score in a game? (Office Pest) Anyone here with a knowledge of USB hard drives? (Amipal) What did you have for breakfast this morning? (Tony Hayers) Which films have you walked out of? (NickT)'Cultural' concerns of the weekSmoking bans in Amsterdam Installing linux (again!) Bonekickers King of Shaves living up to its brand name The fact that 'Monkey Tennis' has a Wikipedia entryQuotes of the week"It sounds like you have the London bowel-quake" Dr Lazybones gives a bug-ridden NickT the benefits of his medical expertise."Someone I 'know' on World of Warcraft reckons he's put in over 300-350 days of played time since release. It's only been released 3 years. So in the last three years he's spent nearly a third of ALL HIS TIME (including sleeping etc) playing the game. His really makes me want to weep." Beardofbees - areyouthat friend?"Damn, did I write a long wall of text again. Sorry I really am sorry I cant help it. damn.Typos, ah I cant be bothered right now. You know what I mean. damn." Gamesblog veteran GWX returns and proves that he's still very much running on incorrect firmware."It's strange when you share a tender moment with somebody, just when your eyes meet theirs, and for a second it's all so close, yet so far away. A divine sadness. I hope to God I don't start to stalk her." DanBob with a oddly moving/scary aside amid the game soundtrack chatter"Walkers Sensations Thai Sweet Chili Crisps are clearly the best. You know you all agree. And if you don't, eat one, and the dizzying high from the ridiculous amounts of addictive substances in them will change your mind." CBPodge goes where the Walkers marketing dept daren't."I'm from Canada, and quietly read Chatterbox when I get home. Don't mind me. I'll get the lights when I leave, like I do most nights. The place is empty when I get here, but I make sure I at least sweep the floor before I go." KidDork - Chatterbox goes pan-global!
I've never got the point of mobile games. Well, ok I get the theory - gaming on the go on a device you carry everywhere. Yes, I get that. But let's face it, the reality of mobile gaming is one of fiddly controls and unsatisfying experiences. Basically it's a pale facsimile of real gaming. Analysts constantly rattle on aboutmobile gaming's huge growth potentialwhile Keith does his best tounearth the gemsthat he assures me are actually out there. But I've yet to find a valid reason to leave the DS or PSP at home.Could that change tomorrow? Yup, like the rest of the lemmings/fans I'm going to try and pick up iPhone 3G in the morning. I resisted the first time round, mainly because I find 3G increasingly useful, but only lack of stock will stop me tomorrow. And for perhaps the first time ever I'm actually looking forward to playing some mobile games.This roundupshows the potential for iPhone gaming - it's all a step forward from the excruciating likes of FIFA on my Nokia. Anyone here getting a iPhone 3G then? And if so are you excited/interested in playing games on it?
O2 is preparing to face thousands of disappointed customers as the mobile phone company looks set to run out of the latest version of Apple's iPhone within minutes of some of its stores opening on Friday morning.The company is suffering from what one insider termed "Hype 2.0" - a play on the fashionable social networking term Web 2.0 - as the new 3G version of the iPhone goes on sale in the UK and 21 other countries on Friday.O2, Apple's exclusive network partner in the UK, ran out of stock for pre-orders within a few hours of the phone becoming available on its website on Monday. Many customers will be expecting to be able to go into its stores when they open on Friday and buy a phone over the counter.O2, however, warned tonight that it has only limited stock and is limiting purchases to one per customer."On average, we will only have a few dozen iPhone 3Gs per store (some stores more, some stores less, dependant upon store size so we expect to sell out quickly)" the company warned on its website.O2 claims that more than 200,000 people registered an interest in the 3G iPhone while 35,000 people registered interest in the previous version of the phone before it went on sale last year.Carphone Warehouse, the only independent retailer that will stock the phone in the UK, reckons interest in the new phone is 10 times greater than it was for the original version.The new phone coincides with Apple's opening up of the device so that third party application developers can create software for it. From Thursday the iTunes store will stock these applications and already there are 500 available - ranging from games and full copies of The Bible to iPhone versions of social networking sites and tools such as MySpace and Twitter.The new 3G version of the phone is expected to be more popular in Europe than the device sold last year because it runs over the new 3G networks which European operators have rolled out over the past few years.The 8GB version of the new phone — which can store about 2,000 songs — is free for O2 customers willing to sign up for 18 months at £45 a month, while the larger capacity 16GB phone is free for anyone on a £75-a-month deal.
Over onMake, Phil Torrone's posted up alinkto a collective of homebrew Nintendo DS music apps. Holy cow, there are so many of them. It's worth scrolling down through the comments to see even more.What is it about the DS that welcomes music-making? Suggestions, please, on a digital postcard.And speaking of music, I did say I'd post it...>Many thanks to everyone who recommended tracks and sent their good wishes. It was an absolutely awesome experience. If you ever have the opportunity to perform at a music festival to a couple hundred people, I highly recommend it.You can hear more about it onlast week's Tech Weekly podcast, plus an interview with the award-winningBlast Theory, purveyors of location-based games.
Yahoo is hoping to reduce Google's power by allowing other people to build their own search engines using Yahoo's back-end via an API (applications programming interface). This should result in dozens or even hundreds of new search engines targeted at more specific markets or offering innovative interfaces or whatever.Yahoo says:Our hope is that the resulting expansion in user choice will have the effect of fragmenting the increasingly consolidated search market in much the same way that cable TV dramatically increased programming choices for television viewers.Yahoo has launched BOSS (Build your Own Search Service) with some examples. These includeMe.dium, which includes browsing info,Hakiasemantic search, andCluuz, "a next-generation search engine prototype".Yahoo also says:In the coming months, we'll be launching a monetization platform for BOSS that will enable Yahoo! to expand its ad network and enable BOSS partners to jointly participate in the compelling economics of search.BOSS is free but monetization will, of course, lock you into Yahoo's advertising network. That's the quid pro quo.Still, I think it's a great move. Each search engine may only attract a tiny market share, but there's a chance that lots of tiddlers can nibble away at the Google shark. And since Yahoo is failing anyway, it doesn't have much to lose. Put it this way: Yahoo Search losing 10% of its audience to tiddlers is not a bad deal if the tiddlers can get 10% of Google's much bigger audience as well.Whether it will work is another matter. Since I actually believe that tech markets that work competitively tend to lead to "natural monopolies (PDF)," my long-standing belief is that (unless it really screws up) Google will eventually end up with 90% of the search market.So the real question is whether BOSS is a game-changer in a way thatNutchwasn't, five years ago. Well, is it?
