They may not know who Steve Jobs was or even how to tie their own shoelaces, but the average six-year-old child understands more about digital technology than a 45-year-old adult, according to an authoritative new report published on Thursday.The advent of broadband in the year 2000 has created a generation of digital natives, the communication watchdog Ofcom says in its annual study of British consumers. Born in the new millennium, these children have never known the dark ages of dial up internet, and the youngest are learning how to operate smartphones or tablets before they are able to talk."These younger people are shaping communications," said Jane Rumble, Ofcom's media research head. "As a result of growing up in the digital age, they are developing fundamentally different communication habits from older generations, even compared to what we call the early adopters, the 16-to-24 age group."Ofcom devised a "digital quotient", or DQ test to put 800 children and 2000 adults through their paces, which rather than measuring intelligence attempts to gauge awareness and self confidence around gadgets from tablets to smart watches, knowledge of superfast internet, 4G mobile phone networks and mobile apps.Among six to seven year olds, who have grown up with YouTube, Spotify music streaming and the BBC iPlayer, the average DQ (digital quotient) score was 98, higher than for those aged between 45 and 49, who scored an average of 96. Digital understanding peaks between 14 and 15, with a DQ of 113 – and then drops gradually throughout adulthood, before falling rapidly in old age.The nation is now being invited to test its digital knowledge withan abbreviated version of the questionnairethat will give any member of the public a DQ score, along with advice on how to improve their understanding and protect themselves and their families online.While half of all adults claimed to know a lot about smartphone and tablet apps, nearly half had never heard of Snapchat, the picture messaging service launched in 2011. The smart glasses being developed by Google, and the smart watch Apple is expected to launch before the end of the year, are also something of a mystery to older technology users, with nearly half of all adults unaware of these devices.More than half of children aged 6-15 claim to use and know a lot about smartphone and tablet apps, with only 3% having never heard of them. Snapchat is particularly popular, with 18% of children claiming to have used the app and a further 11% knowing a lot about it.The ways in which millennial children contact each other and consume entertainment are so different from previous generations, forecasters now consider their preferences a better indication of the future than those of trend setting young adults.The most remarkable change is in time spent talking by phone. Two decades ago, teenagers devoted their evenings to monopolising the home telephone line, dissecting love affairs and friendships in conversations that lasted for hours.For those aged 12 to 15, phone calls account for just 3% of time spent communicating through any device. For all adults, this rises to 20%, and for young adults it is still three times as high at 9%. Today's children do the majority of their remote socialising by sending written messages or through shared photographs and videos. "The millennium generation is losing its voice," Ofcom claims.More than 90% of their device time is message based, chatting on social networks like Facebook, or sending instant messages through services like WhatsApp, or even firing off traditional mobile phone text messages. Just 2% of children's time use is spent emailing – compared to 33% for adults. But 10% of children's device time is spent sending video and photo messages, sharing or commenting on photos via services like Snapchat, or circulating 15 second videos over Instagram's sister app Vine.Away from their phones, 12- to 15-year-olds have a very different relationship with other media too. A digital seven day diary shows live television accounts for just half of viewing for this age group, compared to nearly 70% for all adults. They spend 20% of their time viewing short video clips, for example on YouTube, or news clips distributed via Facebook and other social sites. The rest of their viewing is shared between DVDs, streamed content through Netflix or iTunes, or recorded television programmes.Young adults aged 16 to 24 are voracious consumers of almost all media, devoting 14 hours and seven minutes a day to communications, if the time spent multi-tasking, for example texting while watching TV, is added up. However, live radio and print based media have all but disappeared from their daily diet.Even among adults, television is becoming less important. The number of hours spent in front of the box fell for the first time since a new measurement system was introduced in 2009, from 4 hours and two minutes in 2010 and 2011 to 3 hours and 52 minutes in 2013. Had it not been for the London Olympics in 2012, television viewing would have fallen during that year as well."The jury is still out on whether it's a one off blip or the start of a new trend," said James Thickett, research director at Ofcom. "But younger people are moving away from live television and moving to streaming and catch up services."Television viewing among 16- to 24-year-olds has been dipping each year since 2010, but 2013 was the first year where researchers found viewing fell across all age groups. The theory is that tablet computers – among the most popular Christmas presents in the last two years – have brought many older people online for longer. With large screens and simple, touch based interfaces, tablets are being credited with a jump in internet access among the over 65s."For years there has been a very stubborn resistance by the over 65s to accessing the internet," said Thickett. "In the last three years we have seen that change and we think that's down to tablets."Britain is embracing internet enabled devices across the generations, to the extent that the balance between sleep and screen based activities has now tipped. The typical adult spends eight hours and 41 minutes each day communicating or consuming media, including old fashioned books and newspapers, and just eight hours and 21 minutes asleep.The scales are likely to tip further. Withsleep monitoring sensors linked to smartphone appsheralded as one of the next big technology trends, the nation may soon remain plugged in all night.
With its shuffling zombies, spooky mansion and jump-out-of-your-skin shocks, Resident Evil introduced horror gaming to the PlayStation generation. Now the game’s publisher, Capcom, is remastering the 1996 original for modern consoles.The new version of the game is based on the critically acclaimed 2002 remake, which appeared on Nintendo’s GameCube console. The refreshed remaster will run in 108op HD on PC, Xbox One and PlayStation 4 (720p on Xbox 360 and PS3), and features enhanced visuals and sound. However, the companytold Japanese games magazine Famitsuthat no other in-game content would be altered.On top of the graphical update, players will be able to select either the original 4:3 screen ratio or 16:9 widescreen. The tricky original controls are retained, which forced characters to swivel on the spot to turn around – however, a modernised alternative is also set to be offered. Most controversially, gaming news siteKotaku writes thatthe camera will now scroll more smoothly, replacing the highly expressionistic fixed angles of the original PlayStation title.Capcom has released a short video featuring producers Tetsuya Kitabayashi and Yoshiaki Hirabyashi decribing the project.Now part of a multimillion selling series, the first Resident Evil game introduced what creator Shinji Mikami called “survival horror” – a game about staying alive in a gruesome and deadly environment. The action involves an elite task force investigating a spooky mansion near the town of Raccoon City. What they discover is a lot of zombies, monsters and insane experiments conducted by the sinister Umbrella corporation. The title was a huge success, despite its laughable voice acting and complex control system.Resident Evil is due out in Japan in November and in the US and Europe in Early 2015.Is Resident Evil 6 the death of survival horror?Shock and gore: why video games are failing at horror
Lila Tretikov was still a child when the Soviet Union began to embrace glasnost in the 1980s. The new freedoms enabled Tretikov, an academically brilliant student, to move from Moscow to New York by herself, waitressing to learn English and pay for her last year of high school.By the end of the year she was top of her Shakespeare class. Tretikov has since spent 18 years studying computer science and working with collaborative, “open source” software – and in May beat 1,300 candidates to the job of executive director of the world’s fifth largest website, Wikipedia.For Tretikov, there are parallels between glasnost and Wikipedia’s own aspirations of transparency and openness. “Glasnost was a phenomenal, renaissance period in the history of Russia and taught me much about importance of freedom of information,” Tretikov told the Guardian in her first interview.“The only real way to improve conditions of civilisations is to provide open access to information for education and culture, and to be honest about the past. Otherwise we spend our lives siloed from each other and we repeat the mistakes of our grandparents.”Tretikov’s academic work on machine learning got her a job at Sun Microsystems in 1999, and she founded her own marketing technology firm, GrokDigital, the following year. It was when she joined Silicon Valley’s SugarCRM, which offers customer management software for businesses, that she was able to expand her interest in open source software, where the source code is published, shared and improved with the developer community.Speaking in soft, heavily accented American, Tretikov, 36, is ambitious about Wikipedia’s future. Yet her appointment was controversial among some of Wikipedia’s notoriously boisterous community of volunteer editors.The community includes a hardcore of around 3,000 volunteers who have all made at least 20,000 individual edits . When Tretikov admitted in a post that she had only just made her first edit on the English Wikipedia site there was an inevitable backlash, even though she explained that she had done so to understand the difficulties of first-time editors.“We ended up with an amateur, and that’s pretty frightening,” wrote veteran editor Pete Forsyth in a leaked email. “If she’s got no keel on the open sea, who knows where her take on the community will wash up? It doesn’t give me a lot of hope that she can chart a better course through the crippling dynamics of the last couple years.”Wikimedia’s general counsel, Geoff Brigham, chief executive, Lila Tretikov, and Wikipedia co-founder, Jimmy Wales, attend a press conference in central London on 6 August ahead of the Wikimania conference. Photograph: Carl Court/AFP/Getty ImagesOthers were offended that her boyfriend, developer Wil Sinclair, had joined a site that scrutinises Wikipedia and its editors, describing Sinclair as “her uninvited plus one”. It prompted a characteristically rational response from Tretikov. “I make my decisions using my own professional judgement,” she wrote at the time. “I don’t consult Wil on [Wikipedian] matters, ask him to do anything on my behalf or monitor his engagements with the community … We have always both been extremely independent.”There is often tension between volunteers and management in Wikipedia. A men’s rights group claimed a “feminist conspiracy” was censoring its views on the site. It is a challenge for Tretikov to gain the confidence of its male-dominated volunteers, many of whom have worked on the site for years to establish its processes and norms, while at the same time making the site more appealing and accessible to new, more diverse editors.Diversity is a big problem, with Wikipedia dominated by white, western men. Thirteen years since it launched, the site publishes and maintains more than 32m articles in 287 languages, all run through a complex and often exhaustingly democratic system of voting and consensus. But women are estimated to account for only 15% of the 80,000 regular editors, and volunteers in the developing world are also under-represented.“The most important thing for us is to lower the barrier to entry to this knowledge-building community,” she says. “Our mission is to educate, so the more open we can be to different types of thinking, the more diverse we will be.”As the only non-commercial site of its scale, Wikipedia is an anomaly among the household names of the web. It remains a uniquely complex organisation, and Tretikov will have to help sustain its finances; the site costs $29m (£17.2m) a year to run, and relies on charitable grants and donations from users, which increased from $4m to $45m under Tretikov’s predecessor Sue Gardner. If it chose to display adverts to nearly half a billion people that use the site each month – as some commentators have pushed for – it could make nearly $3bn per year, by one estimate.“Knowledge is all about trust,” says Tretikov. “Not being beholden to demands of the market gives us freedom to do the right thing for the user first and foremost. It allows us to be much more focused on the users and what their needs are.”A very early Wikipedia homepage from 2001.As the largest single source of free information in the world, Wikipedia also has to battle misinformation by corporations and governments, and is already being defended by some automated software or ‘bots’ that publish a Twitter notification when articles relating to Congress, parliament or other public bodies have been edited by an insider.Recent efforts have started to overhaul the site’s editing system to make it easier and less technically demanding for new editors, but automated software could help here too. The English language Wikipedia already has nearly 2,000 approved bots, and across the whole Wikipedia networks bots accounted for 15% of Wikipedia’s 19bn page views during July 2014. These programmes perform an array of mundane tasks from correcting spelling to updating standard census statistics and even reversing vandalism.“In the future, an editor without coding skills will have access to tools that could allow him or her to automatically scan, identify, and fill gaps in the knowledge with a few clicks of a button,” she says. “[Programmers] are thinking about how we can augment and improve what humans do by handing off the grunt work to the machines - enabling us to focus on the creative, ingenious tasks. Our biggest challenge is to understand how things are changing in the way humans experience technology and be there for those that aren’t even online yet.”Tretikov said she recognised concern about the increasing use of machines to automate human tasks. “But computers are definitely much better than humans at processing large amounts of information, which is why that’s where we use them most. There are emerging areas where bots could help us identify interesting things – that doesn’t make computers creative in and of themselves, but they do help us amplify our own creativity.”Given the site’s experiments with automation and Tretikov’s academic interest in artificial intelligence (she has co-authored several patents), it is no surprise that her vision for Wikipedia is to assert itself as a technology company, rather than a media firm. Her first real test will come on Saturday, when she stands before the real-world congregation of Wikipedia to set out her plans for its future.“The only thing we can do to change things, is to charge ahead and change things through actions, through trying. Who knows, in 50 years we could be trying to help men change the status quo of the world, where women have been proven the capable ones.”Wikipedia: in numbersNumber of articlesOverall, there are32,695,787 articleson Wikipedia. But in the English-language version, there are4,573,131 articles. In its first year (2001-2002),19,700 articleswere written. So far in 2014,160,280have been written. In 2013,280,000new articles were addedPopularityWikipedia is thesixth most popular websitein the world after Google, Facebook, YouTube, Yahoo! and Baidu according to Alexa, June 2014Global WikipediaThere are currently287 language versionsof Wikipedia. Eleven language versions have over 1 million articles. TheWaray-Waray Wikipediais one of these, with 1,074,000 articles. Waray-Waray is spoken in the Eastern Visayas of the PhilippinesContent30% of articles pertain to culture; 15% are biographical; 14% aregeographical; 12% are social sciences; and 11% arehistoricalControversyIn 2008, UK ISPsblocked accessto the article on 1976 death metal albumVirgin Killerafter child pornography complaints were made against the image used as the album’s title sleeveAccoladesIn 2006, Time magazine threw out the rulebook andnamed all of the peoplewho edited Wikipedia and other user-generated content as their Person of the YearContributors69% of editors say they had to fix an error. 73% of contributors like to share their knowledge. 19% of editors hold Masters degrees; 4.4% hold PhDs, and13% are women•Wikimania, the annual Wikimedia Foundation conference, runs from 6-10 August at London’s Barbican Centre• This article was amended on 12 August 2014 to clarify that Lila Tretikov edited the site for the first time to understand the problems of first-time editors.
Experts are divided over the role of robots over the next decade, with some arguing that they will create more jobs than they displace, and others worrying that they could lead to income inequality and a breakdown in social order.The findings come froma report by Pew Research, which surveyed almost two thousand individuals with expertise in artificial intelligence (AI), robotics and economics, to find out their predictions for the role of automation between today and 2025. The experts were almost perfectly split, with 52% predicting an optimistic path, and 48% worrying about the future.The optimists envisioned “a future in which robots and digital agents do not displace more jobs than they create,” according to Aaron Smith, the report’s co-author. But the pessimistic view was that automation “will displace significant numbers of both blue- and white-collar workers.“A number of the respondents warned that this aspect of technical evolution will lead to vast increases in income inequality, masses of people who are effectively unemployable and the possibility of breakdowns in the social order.”Almost all of the respondents are united on one thing: the displacement of work by robots and AI is going to continue, and accelerate, over the coming decade. Where they split is in the societal response to that displacement.The optimists predict that the economic boom that would result from vastly reduced costs to businesses would lead to the creation of new jobs in huge numbers, and a newfound premium being placed on the value of work that requires “uniquely human capabilities”. In the end, as Lee Rainie, another co-author of the report, puts it, it could result in a “freedom from day-to-day drudger that allows people to define work in a more positive and socially beneficial way”.Microsoft’s Jonathan Grudin told researchers that “Technology will continue to disrupt jobs, but more jobs seem likely to be created. When the world population was a few hundred million people there were hundreds of millions of jobs. Although there have always been unemployed people, when we reached a few billion people there were billions of jobs. There is no shortage of things that need to be done and that will not change.”But the pessimists worry that the benefits of the labor replacement will accrue to those already wealthy enough to own the automatons, be that in the form of patents for algorithmic workers or the physical form of robots.The ranks of the unemployed could swell, as people are laid off from work they are qualified in without the ability to retrain for careers where their humanity is a positive. And since this will happen in every economic sector simultaneously, civil unrest could be the result.“Unlike previous disruptions such as when farming machinery displaced farm workers but created factory jobs making the machines, robotics and AI are different,” says Nasa’s Mark Nall.“Due to their versatility and growing capabilities, not just a few economic sectors will be affected, but whole swaths will be. This is already being seen now in areas from robocalls to lights-out manufacturing. Economic efficiency will be the driver. The social consequence is that good-paying jobs will be increasingly scarce.”One thing many experts agreed on was the need for education to prepare for a post-automation world. ““Only the best-educated humans will compete with machines,” said internet sociologist Howard Rheingold.“And education systems in the US and much of the rest of the world are still sitting students in rows and columns, teaching them to keep quiet and memorise what is told them, preparing them for life in a 20th century factory.”The report is the fourth in a series from Pew Research logging at digital life in 2025. As well as a broad series opener, the reports have examinedthe internet of thingsandthreats to the open internet.Pew study points to support for internet freedom in emerging countries
Security researchers have expressed concern over the claim that more than 4.5bn user credentials including 1.2bn unique usernames and passwords have been amassed by a Russian cybercriminal gang.Security researchers from Kaspersky, Symantec and University College London have questioned the newsreported on Tuesdaythat private security firm Hold Security had identified a Russian cybercriminal gang called CyberVor, which had amassed a database of more than 4.5bn stolen records, including 1.2bn unique usernames and passwords belonging to 500m email addresses.Cybersecurity experts are concerned that Hold Security has not yet made the data public or available for confirmation by users. “We’ve had very little concrete information released,” said David Emm, senior researcher with security firm Kaspersky, talking to the Guardian.“I’m inclined to take it with a pinch of salt for now.”CyberVor raided over 420,000 websites to collect the stolen user information, Hold Security said, initially offering a commercial “breach notification” service requiring consumers and companies to see if they had been affected – but only if they paid a fee.The company still offers its commercial security services as part of the report, and later said it would allow consumers to check free of charge whether their usernames or passwords had been stolen.“Nothing has been released by an established security company – I personally haven’t come across Hold Security before – and we’ve had no information on the companies affected, or whether they’re still vulnerable,” said Emm. “There’s just what seems to me to be a pretty vague claim of the largest security breach to date.‘Plausible but we need more data’“There hasn’t been very much data released yet on exactly what these guys found,” explained Dr Brad Karp, a reader in computer systems and networks at the computer science department at University College London who researches internet and systems security.Hold Security allowed an unnamed independent security expert to verify the database of stolen user detailsat the request of the New York Times.“It’s plausible that they have found this many credentials, but whether they actually have or not we would need to see more data,” said Karp. “We’ve been told independent experts have verified it, but we haven’t seen what they’ve verified and we don’t know who they are.”Candid Wueest, principal threat researcher with security firm Symantec agreed.“Without having actual fact, it’s hard to say whether it happened like they explained or not,” said Wueest. “It is possible, but at the moment it’s speculation by one source and we haven’t seen any secondary proof, so at the moment we have to unfortunately wait and see how it evolves.”‘It could be too early’Companies affected by the breach have been notified, according to Hold Security.“I haven’t seen any major companies go public and urge users to change their passwords,” explained Emm who had been in contact with colleagues in the security industry in other countries who feel similarly about the report. “It could be too early, but the coverage across the world on this I would have expected something a bit more concrete and some notifications from companies by now.”Wueest explained that it is possible that it is just too soon for large companies affected by the breach to notify users, needing to fix the bugs that allowed hackers to steal the data in the first place before asking for mass password changes.“You would expect that at least some of the passwords would have been hashed and encrypted, so if it’s 1.2bn hashed passwords it’s not as interesting as 1.2bn clear text passwords,” explained Wueest.“There’s a big chance some of those passwords might not be active anymore or might just be test or throw away passwords – as seen in the Adobe breach with accounts simply made to download the latest software trials using disposable credentials,” he said.‘Web security and software is sufficiently bad’“The important takeaway is that it is possible due to the state of web security and software is sufficiently bad that a find like this is entirely conceivable,” said Karp.Whether verified or not, the security leak is yet another nail in the coffin for usernames and passwords as the security device of choice. Users are still advised to maintain strong passwords that are not easy to guess and that do not include real English words, but other solutions must be found.“This latest breach also offers more evidence that passwords are losing their effectiveness as a protection mechanism,” said Tom Burton, director of KPMG’s cyber security practice. “Individuals cannot possibly remember a different password for each website they use, let alone passwords with strength.”“You’ve got no real control as a consumer when a breach happens at an online provider you use, but you can minimise damage by making sure you use a unique password for each account,” explained Emm.‘Not the worst thing in the world to write down a complex password’Other methods could boost protection, including using another item of security, like a number-generating key fob or application on a mobile phone, called two-factor authentication.An alternative solution is to move to another device or mechanism for proving identity. Wueest explained that one potential solution would to be to use a mobile phone that confirmed a login via a push notification or text message that the user would verify to allow entry into a website or computer system.In the meantime, Emm says “it’s not the worst thing in the world to write down a complex password while at home”.“As long as you keep it away from prying eyes and separate from your smartphone or computer – the cybercriminal is not going to come through the front door,” he said.Security experts are advising that users keep aware of developments with the CyberVor breach, but that immediately changing all their passwords is not yet the appropriate action.Users should keep a close eye on their accounts, especially those with financial details attached, and heed warnings from companies who have been affected if they urge users to change their passwords in the near future.What to do if your email account gets hacked, and how to stop it happening againHow to protect yourself from phishing attacks
Wikipedia’s founder Jimmy Wales has revealed new details about what he describes as the site’s “censorship” under the EU’s “right to be forgotten” laws.Wales revealed that Google has been asked to remove five links to Wikipedia in the last week. Now the Wikimedia Foundation, the non-profit group which runs the collaboratively edited encyclopaedia, has postedthe notices of removal from Google online.Among the articles removed from search results are an image ofa young man playing a guitar,a page about the former criminal Gerry Hutch, anda page about the Italian gangster Renato Vallanzasca.Speaking at the launch of Wikimedia’s transparency report, Wales attacked people who would use the “right to be forgotten” ruling to remove links to Wikipedia.“History is a human right and one of the worst things that a person can do is attempt to use force to silence another,” he said. “I’ve been in the public eye for quite some time. Some people say good things, some people say bad things … that’s history, and I would never use any kind of legal process like to try to suppress it.”Wales, who founded Wikipedia in 2001, has been outspoken against the right to be forgotten, frequently describing it as “censorship” and “tyrannical”.He argued that Google’s decision over what to index should be seen as “editorial judgement”, the same as a newspaper’s decision about what goes on its front page, and that the state interfering in that decision is censorious.Google has always argued that it does not want to impose editorial judgment over its search results, and emphasises the “neutrality” of machine-determined results.Geoff Brigham, Wikipedia’s general counsel, said that many more links may have been removed without Wikimedia’s knowledge.“We only know about these removals because the involved search engine company chose to send notices to the Wikimedia Foundation,” he said. “Search engines have no legal obligation to send such notices. Indeed, their ability to continue to do so may be in jeopardy.“Since search engines are not required to provide affected sites with notice, other search engines may have removed additional links from their results without our knowledge. This lack of transparent policies and procedures is only one of the many flaws in the European decision.”Lila Tretikov, the executive director of the Wikimedia Foundation, described the ruling as creating Orwellian “memory holes”. “Accurate search results are vanishing in Europe with no public explanation, no real proof, no judicial review, and no appeals process,” she said.“We find this type of veiled censorship unacceptable. But we find the lack of disclosure unforgivable. This is not a tenable future. We cannot build the sum of all human knowledge without the world’s true source, based on pre-edited histories.”While accepting that there should be remedies for people who were the subjects of inaccurate information published on the internet, such as libel laws or corrections, all three of the Wikimedia executives were adamant that accurate, if out-dated, information should stay online, and should continue to be linked to by search providers such as Google. They all also insisted that there was no historical information that they themselves were tempted to remove.Zero requests grantedThe revelations about Wikipedia pages being censored under the right to be forgotten were made at the launch of Wikimedia’s transparency report. The foundation has followed in the steps of firms such as Twitter, Apple and Tumblr by publishing information about requests by state actors for user data and for content to be taken down.Between July 2012 and June 2014, the period the first report covers, Wikimedia received 304 requests for content to be taken down or altered, but did not grant a single one.One such request was to remove a “selfie” taken by a monkey, on the grounds that it infringed the copyright of the human photographer who posted the pictures. Wikipedia declined, arguing that the photographer did not, in fact, own the copyright.Another request came from a Tasmanian aboriginal language centre, demanding the removal of the English-language article on “palawa mani”, arguing it owned copyright over the entire language. Wikimedia says that “copyright law simply cannot be used to stop people from using an entire language, or to prevent general discussion about the language.Wikimedia was also asked to give up personal information 56 times during the period, and complied with the request 14% of the time.The foundation has also not been asked to give up data under laws such as the US’s National Security Letters, which gag the recipients from revealing the request. This disclosure is a form of “warrant canary”: if Wikimedia stops saying it, it can be assumed to have received its first letter, Wales explained.Profile: Jimmy Wales - champion of free speechWikipedia: meet the man who has edited 3m articles
Apple has generated $6.5bn in revenues for European app developers since the iPhone app store arrived in 2008, according to new data released by the electronics group today.The UK has 61,000 paid apps developers - as opposed to hobbyists and enthusiasts - registered to create content for the iTunes store, more than any other European nation. Germany comes second with 52,200 registered paid developers, while France has 30,000.In ablogposted this morning on Apple’s European websites, the company said: “With more than 1.2m apps and over 75bn downloads, the App Store has created an entirely new industry: iOS app design and development.”Europe as a whole has taken nearly one third of the $20 billion in global revenues earned by developers via iOS devices, both from sales of apps and purchases made within apps, such as extra lives in games. Apple takes a commission of 30% from any app sales on its platform, meaning the company has earned around $10bn globally since 2008.Forecasts suggest that In 2014, the overall app economy is expected to deliver $16.5bn in revenues to EU GDP, and this contribution is growing at a rate of 12% per year. Globally, the app economy will add an estimated $86bn in revenues to worldwide GDP in 2014.Google has also trumpeted its contribution to the digital economy via it’s Google Play app store, but Apple is believed to account for 80% of developer revenue in Europe. The company revealed Wednesday that it has helped create 497,000 iOS app developer jobs in Europe since 2008.A further 16,000 people are employed directly by Apple in Europe including 5000 in the UK and 4000 at Apple’s international headquarters in Cork, Ireland.With more than 4,500 suppliers in Europe the company claims a further 116,000 people are indirectly employed by Apple.“The App Store has created hundreds of thousands of new jobs that previously did not exist in the European economy,” Apple said, “enabling developers to launch new companies and and $6.5bn from App Store sales worldwide.”Apple reveals iPhone and iPad owners spent $10bn on apps in 2013
From the rooftop of the tallest skyscraper in Los Santos you can see for miles in all directions. There’s the densely crowded downtown area and the sprawling suburbs that surround it; there’s the industrial quarter down by the railway tracks, giving way to a blighted, gang-infested slum on the fringes. So much life and detail, but all to one end: the entertainment of players.Los Santos is a fictional city – the setting to crime adventure, Grand Theft Auto V. Here, the squares and public spaces provide combat arenas, the buildings are places to rob, and parking is very rarely an issue. In this lavish reimagining of Los Angeles, traffic jams only happen when the narrative demands them.But the intricate fantasy environments imagined for games like GTA V may well prove more useful than they seem. Now the technologies and tools developed by this multibillion dollar entertainment industry are making changes in the real world.Games as planning toolsJohn Isaacs, a lecturer in computing at the University of Abertay, is one of those exploring the possibilities of game engines. In 2011, he developed an urban mapping application for hisPhD project. TheSustainable City Visualisation Toolwas used to generate a 3D visualisation of the Dundee Waterfront, modeling different approaches to its regeneration. Built using the XNA game design tools created by Microsoft for its Xbox console, S-CITY VT enabled users to apply different proposals and see how they affected noise levels, energy consumption and other factors.Importantly, Isaacs’ tool helped residents to understand how the redevelopment would affect them. “One of the first things we did was to find out where [a resident’s] house was, and then spin the camera around so they could see the development from there,” he explains.Since then, the tool has been applied to a golf course flood-defence at St Andrews, models for solar building heating, and most recently to recreate a housing estate in Fife. Isaacs sees the next step as a move to a web-based approach, making it easier for residents to access and collaborate on plans.From Minecraft to village craftingAlthough they may not have the same level of detail as Isaacs’ tool, there are vastly popular building systems already on the market, sold as games.The United Nations Human Settlements Program (UN-Habitat) has a mission to create or improve 300 public spaces in the developing world by 2016. That mission led them to Sweden, and Mojang, makers of the insanely popular sandbox game Minecraft.The resultingBlock by Blockproject commissionedFyre, a British Minecraft community, allows users to build models of areas lined up for redevelopment. Groups of locals are then unleashed on them, guided by experienced Minecraft players, to build whatever they want to see in reality.Recently, Block by Block visited theLes Cayes waterfront in Haiti, which is lined up for a $2.5 million redevelopment. “Previously, the professionals would stand at one end of the room and ask people questions,” says Pontus Westerberg, UN-Habitat’s digital projects officer. “Now the citizens are presenting the professionals with their designs. That’s very powerful.”SimCityEDUalso draws on an existing, mass-market game – Electronic Arts’ SimCity – and modifies it for classrooms. The first title in the series,Pollution Challenge, sets students as young as 10 a series of environmental problems to solve without damaging their city’s economy.Jessica Lindl, general manager of developerGlassLab, notes that American schoolchildren spend an average of 13 hours a week playing video games and four hours doing homework: “Students are far more likely to feel comfortable with videogames, and feel at ease jumping into a challenge rather than taking a test”.The concept is similar to the versions of Minecraft and sandbox space sim Kerbal Space Program, converted for school room use by Finnish company,TeacherGaming. More than 200 UK schools are now usingMinecraftEduin lessons, using it to teach about geography and basic urban planning.Training soldiers to recover from warMake something that looks like a game and is fun to play, the logic of SimCityEDU goes, and its message will be absorbed by willing repetition.At the Georgia Institute of Technology, the assistant professor of computer scienceMark Riedlis developing an “open story generator” named Scheherazade. The program is capable of constructing virtual worlds and scenarios based on real-life events. It can collect written experiences from groups of people, work out collective themes and turn them into a simulation. His research has been funded byDarpa, which is interested in finding new ways toteach soldiers how to interact and behavewith indigenous populations in war zones.As Riedl explains, “Veteran soldiers can write down their experiences and if a number of people are reporting similar things, the program says, all right this is significant, lets try to learn from it and recreate it.” The aim is for Scheherazade to turn these reports into graphically authentic simulations, teaching a new generation of soldiers what their predecessors learned directly in the field of battle.Post-traumatic stress disorder is a consequence of war rarely explored in battle games – but they can help here too. Albert “Skip” Rizzo, associate director of theInstitute for Creative Technologiesat USC, used assets from Full Spectrum Warrior, a video game commissioned by the US Army, to create a virtual reality therapy for veterans with PTSD in 2005.The current version of Rizzo’s system is powered by theUnity3D engine, a popular game development technology. The patient wears a VR headset and moves around a simulation, while a therapist introduces triggers such as explosions or gunfire. Although it may seem counter-intuitive, this has proven effective in managing symptoms. In one recent open trial, 16 of 20 subjects no longer met the standards for a PTSD diagnosis after completing treatment.Gaming technologies are also being applied to physical war wounds. Vitalize was produced by Leamington Spa-based studio Radiant Worlds for the US Army’s rehabilitation centre in Texas. Commissioned to help soldiers with damaged or missing limbs to recover mobility, Radiant Worlds’ CTO Andrew Oliver initially expected to make a fitness game. “But every time we did the review boards, the soldiers said: ‘We’re soldiers. We want to be soldiers’.”Vitalize ended up as a combat game, where players perform prescribed motions in front of a Kinect motion sensor to destroy giant robots.Play all about itVideo games are also being used to explore and question the environments of war, both in terms of geometry and politics. Built byMolleIndustriaandJim Munroe,Unmanned,depicts the mundane life of an American drone operator – playing video games with his son, flirting with his colleague and occasionally killing “persons of interest”.At the USC School of Cinematic Arts, the researcher Nonny de la Pena has developed a project namedImmersive Journalismwhich uses virtual reality to place viewers into the environment of contemporary news stories. Once example, Project Syria, puts participants into a simulated street scene in the Aleppo district, just as a rocket hits. It was premiered at the World Economic Forum in January. The aim is to give people a very visceral understanding of current affairs.Such “newsgames” can be controversial. In 2004, Katharine Neil took the graphics engine behind first person shooters Half-Life and Counter-Strike and used it to create a game depicting the Woomera Immigration Reception and Processing Centre. She worked onEscape From Woomeraanonymously, for fear of losing her job. At one Australian games festival, she sat incognita in the audience as a text-to-speech program delivered her presentation.More recently, Endgame: Syria byGamethenewsis a mobile game aimed at highlighting the complexities of the Syrian Civil War. The title sparked discussion when it was banned from Apple’s App Store, and had to be resubmitted asEndgame: Eurasia. Apple has also excluded games dealing withpeople smuggling,sweatshop labourand theethics of smartphone maunfacture. “It would be good to see Apple move with the times and update its submission guidelines in line with how games are being used,” says Endgame: Syria developer Tomas Rawlings.Games are incredibly successful training systems – but all they usually do is train people how to play within fictional worlds. As the tools employed to make them evolve, the potential is there to engage with the real world. In this way, video games offer the power to capture, comment on and change lives.War games – developers find new ways to explore military conflictA serious game about sweatshops … you won’t find it in Apple’s App StoreFrom Watch Dogs to GTA V, why ‘video games are going to reshape our cities’
A lawyer suing Facebook in a class action over online privacy will limit the scale of the lawsuit after being overwhelmed with support.Up to 7,000 users a day from more than 100 countries have registered backing for campaigner Max Schrems’s David v Goliath legal challenge in the courts in Austria.The activist said the case, which could be the largest class and privacy action yet taken, will be restricted to 25,000 members of the social network in order to verify each account.Schrems said at peak times since last Friday a new user was joining the claim every six seconds.“We have hoped for large support, but the number of participants in such a short time exceeded my most optimistic expectations,” he said.Germany tops the list for the most people backing the case with 5,287 Facebook users signing up there, while there have been 944 users based in the UK and only 162 from Ireland as of 9am on Wednesday.The vast majority of users are based in Europe, and other countries where support is big are Austria with 3,712 users, the Netherlands with 2,438, Finland with 1,179 and Croatia with 1,106.Schrems said support has been in line with media coverage in most European countries.“We were well prepared for this huge amount of claims. Nevertheless, we have to limit the claims after this short time, because we will have to verify and administer every individual claim,” he said.“With this number of participants, we have a great basis to stop complaining about privacy violations and actually do something about it. If we are successful, the outcome will, of course, have a positive impact on all users.”When numbers top 25,000, the campaign at Europe-v-facebook.org will continue to register the name and address of users who wish to join the action and they will be prioritised if the claim is expanded.It is also thought the additional number of claimants will boost the campaigner’s case when it is expected to go to court later this year.Schrems is claiming damages of 500 euros (£397) per supporter in the courts in Vienna for alleged data protection violations by Facebook, including over the US Prism spy programme.The action is being taken against the Irish subsidiary of the New York-listed web giant.Schrems has been challenging the social network’s use of data through his Europe-v-facebook.org campaign and the Data Protection Commission in Ireland and has more than 20 active complaints of alleged data breaches filed with the watchdog.The class action claims Facebook Ireland is in breach of European law on users’ data and it violates rights by tracking internet use on external sites, including the use of “like” buttons.It also attacks Facebook’s analysis of users through what it calls “big data” systems.Schrems claims the company supports the Prism surveillance programme, the US secret service’s worldwide monitoring and data mining exposed by the whistleblower Edward Snowden.Facebook has several weeks to respond to Schrems’s claims.An earlier landmark battle launched in Ireland to find out what Facebook tells US spy chiefs was referred to the European court of justice by a judge in Dublin last month.Facebook has more than 1.3 billion users. Its shares are trading on the Nasdaq at around $72, making it worth in the region of $200bn (£118 billion).
Running is hard. It’s especially so forClaire Wyckoff, who has taken to sketching out her routes withNike+, in order to create some beautiful map artwork.The San Francisco-based runner has managed to find a way to distract from the fact outdoor running – while a sure-fire endorphin hit and a nice way to discover new things about the neighbourhood – can often be boring, cold, and wet.Not so for Wyckoff, who is “just trying tosave the world”. The copywriter and voiceover artist has developed a habit of “draw running” – planning out her routes with GPS to form pictures on the Nike+ map.Mostly, she likes to draw run penises.Amazeballs. Photograph: Running Drawing/Claire WyckoffBellendless fun. Photograph: Running Drawing/Claire Wyckoff.@allygreerit&#39;s not easy. first, you have to spend a lot of time looking for dicks on maps... countless hours of dick searching...&mdash; ClaireWyckoff (@ClaireWyckoff)August 5, 2014But Wyckoff’s brain isn’t only in her pants. The map artiste has also drawn a corgi, a Space Invaders alien,a pole dancer, andSlimer from Ghostbusters(yes, really).Cor! A corgi. Photograph: Running Drawing/Claire WyckoffDraw running...no longer an alien concept. Photograph: Running Drawing/Claire WyckoffWe love Wyckoff’s work. She’s keeping fit, having fun, and exercising the mind; it’s the whole package. And if you’re a running zealot and think this whole thing just makes a mockery of yourIronmantraining? Well…Giving running the finger. Photograph: Running Drawing/Claire Wyckoff•From Lara Croft to Bayonetta: what is a ‘strong female character’?
The Treasury has launched a review looking to turn the UK into a centre for virtual currency trade, the chancellor, George Osborne, announced at Canary Wharf in London.Officials will study the benefits and threats unregulated digital currencies including bitcoin, which peaked with a market capitalisation of around $14bn at the end of 2013 but has since declined to about $8bnaccording to bitcoin market watcher BlockChain.The study, due in the autumn, will detail the role that cryptocurrencies could play in business, as part of the government’s plan to stimulate innovation in the financial technology (fintech) sector.‘Cementing Britain’s position as the centre of global finance’“It’s only by harnessing innovations in finance, alongside our existing world class knowledge and skills in financial services, that we’ll ensure Britain’s financial sector continues to meet the diverse needs of businesses and consumers, here and around the globe, and create the jobs and growth we all want to see in the future,” Osborne said at the launch of Innovate Finance, a new industry body established to promote the interests of the UK’s rapidly growing fintech sector.“Key to the government’s long term economic plan is cementing Britain’s position as the centre of global finance,” Osborne said.Claire Cockerton, chief executive and director of Innovate Finance, said: “The time has come for radical transformation of the financial services industry. Whether you are a consumer, banker or young entrepreneur – we all see enormous potential for innovation and growth in the financial services sector.“While London and the UK provide the right talent, expertise, and market conditions, we believe our collective entrepreneurial spirit will lead us to compete and prosper on a global stage.”The move comes after New York State proposed a licensing scheme for the trading of bitcoin, which would see companies accepting or trading bitcoin keep records of the identities and addresses of customers. Companies will also be forced to keep an amount of bitcoin that is larger than or equal to the sum owed to customers.•Independent Scotland ‘could be bitcoin testbed’
Being an entrepreneur has never been more desirable, and I should know because I am one.At 34 I have ticked a good few boxes: I’ve had an exit, a failed business, raised more than half a million dollars for three different businesses and now run two startups with global ambitions.But despite living what some might think is the “entrepreneurial dream”, I have suffered from very bad depression throughout all of my success and failures.We aren’t meant to be a success and suffer from depression. Just like many others, I had lots of probably outdated misconceptions about depression and thought it would never affect someone like me. Yet I was running a business with 25 people when I first discovered I was suffering from it.In truth I’d had it for years, but because I worked in startups I just called it “stress” or “burnout”. But when the doctor said the word “depression” I was shocked. Angry, even. How could you have depression if you had a booming startup, a nice house, great friends and a lovely car?I’d been able to hide it for years, even from myself, because I had been working so hard. But when I started getting panic attacks, having to stay in bed for days at a time and generally working under a cloud of fog, I knew I needed to do something about it.There were times when I’d be perfectly fine at my desk one minute, and the next minute in a team meeting my head would start spinning, and I’d have to get out and race home to get under the covers in bed. Lock myself away from the world.The reality is that one in four people will suffer from depression, or some form of mental illness, in their lifetime. With those sorts of stats, it is inevitable that some startup founders, entrepreneurs and employees will suffer from it.Given the huge pressure that most founders come under during the early days of a business, it is actually even more likely that they’ll get it. I didn’t know what it was before, but now I know the signs I see it happen to people all the time. It is such a taboo subject though that nobody ever wants to talk about it because of the fear of being seen as a failure.It is hard enough to talk about it in normal life, but combine it with the bravado of the startup world and it means there are thousands of people struggling away every day. Not being able to talk about it only compounds the pressure.The good news is that for most it is easily treated. I was able to take medication and work through therapy to get over it and manage it. My businesses are thriving as a result of pulling through, but I do worry about others who have nobody to speak to.The most important thing from experience is to deal with it and talk to people – a friend, a co-founder or family. I decided to write a book and talk openly about this, in the hope that it might help even one person.The odds against a startup succeeding are slim enough, and those pressures often catch up on people and result in depression. I’m proof that with proper help and support the cloud can start to lift – and entrepreneurs can continue their plans for world domination.Niall Harbison is a Irish entrepreneur who co-founded Simply Zesty and is now CEO of PR Slides. His bookGet Sh*t Donewas published in June 2014.Social networking can lighten the darkness of depression
It's Wednesday.
WhatsApp has spawned a new generation of instant messaging superusers, with some teenagers and young adults using their smartphones to despatch up to 100,000 electronic messages a year, according to a study by Deloitte.The number of instant messages composed in Britain in 2014 is forecast to double this year, reaching 300bn by Christmas, after 160bn were sent last year – with some young smartphone owners making the most of almost free services such as WhatsApp, iMessage and Facebook Messenger to send more than 270 updates on a typical day.With many messages as short as a single emoticon – smiley faces and pulsating hearts are particular favourites – the number quickly adds up. The rapid to and fro of instant messages often replicates phone conversations or face to face chats, but in written form.The trend, says Deloitte technology, media and telecoms research head Paul Lee, is being driven by young love. "Teenage romance is appropriating technology for its needs," said Lee. "A constant among humans is courting and they use different tools to do it. It used to be hanging on the phone, now it's instant messaging."The average person sends seven text messages a day, researchers found, but for instant messaging the average rises to 46 a day – about three per waking hour (assuming a typical person stays awake for 16 hours).In a mobile report to be published next month, Deloitte reckons a small percentage are superusers, with about half a million young people in Britain sending thousands of messages a month.The volume of instant messages (IMs) overtook the old fashioned text last year – with 145bn texts sent. This year texting will begin to decline for the first time since its invention in 1992, with Deloitte forecasting a fall to 140bn.Younger users are gathering around the virtual water coolers offered by WhatsApp, or photo-based services such as Snapchat and Instagram, because at a fraction of the price of texts, they facilitate group conversations, allow the writer to decorate their sentences with brightly coloured stickers and emoticons, and send photos or videos.The revolution in communications is being driven by only a quarter of phone owners. In a survey conducted in May, Deloitte found 30% of smartphone owners and 25% of all mobile phone users reported using an instant messaging application in the previous week. By contrast, nNearly 90% of smartphone owners had sent a text and nearly 80% had made a voice call. Emails and social networks are more popular among smartphone owners, with nearly half of those questioned having used those services from their mobile.For the minority of those who use them, instant messages are not only replacing voice calls but competing with most types of remote communication. Messaging applications are now big business, and their arrival is threatening to take traffic from social networks. In February Facebook moved to shore up its hold over mobile interactions bypaying £11.4bn for WhatsApp, which is growing at a rate of  1 million registered users a day and charges members $1 a year."What they are doing with that acquisition is capturing the flow of conversations," said Lee. "Some of their users have gone from talking on Facebook to talking on WhatsApp. By acquiring WhatsApp they keep those users."
More than 17,000 Facebook members have joined a class action lawsuit accusing the social network of violating data protection law and supporting spying by America's National Security Agency.The suit was launched on 1 August by a 26-year-old Austrian law student, Max Schrems, who filed his claim to be heard in his home country. He called for 1 billion Facebook users to join his case.By Monday, 5,000 Facebook members had signed up for the action via a specially createdappthat can be accessed from desktop computers and mobile devices, handing over details of their Facebook memberships, their addresses and scans of identity documents. By Tuesday, more than three times that number were  on board.Schrems, who described the response to his appeal as "giant", told the Reuters: "The emails and feedback have been really positive and what is interesting is that many people say finally someone is doing something in this direction."The case is being brought against Facebook Ireland, which is based in Dublin and runs the network's activities outside of America."Our aim is to make Facebook finally operate lawfully in the area of data protection," said Schrems. "We love to complain constantly about data protection problems in Europe, now it's also time for us to enforce our fundamental rights. Within the framework of this class action individuals can also make a contribution to this effort."The world's biggest social network has 1.32 billion users, and its shares are trading at a record high, valuing the company at almost $200bn.But Schrems claims Facebook Ireland has committed unlawful acts, including "support of the NSA's 'PRISM' surveillance programme", tracking Facebook users on external websites, for example through "like" buttons, passing user data to external applications without authorisation, and not securing effective consent for many types of data use.The suit mentions in particular Graph Search, a Facebook feature which produces lists of named members in response to queries such as "Friends who live in San Francisco", or even "Facebook employees who live in London".The claim for damages has been set at a "token" €500 member. The suit is being financed entirely by Roland Prozessfinanz, a specialist litigation funding company, which will take 20% of any damages awarded. The rest of the damages will be handed back to the claimants, unless the balance is under €5, in which case it will be donated to charity."Because of our long history as a litigation funding company we are used to levelling the playing field in the fight between David and Goliath. In this case it is particularly necessary," said Arndt Eversberg, chief executive of Roland.Under Austrian law, a group of people may assign their claims to one litigant, in this case Schrems, thus creating a class action. But those who hand over their claim to Schrems will not be liable for any costs."We are only claiming a small amount, as our primary objective is to ensure correct data protection," said Schrems. "However, if many thousands of people participate we would reach an amount that will have a serious impact on Facebook."
Researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), working in conjunction with Microsoft and Adobe, have developed a method of reconstructing sound from a video of an object – letting them use a crisp packet, glass of water, or potted plant as a microphone.The technology is similar tothe laser microphonesused by spies around the world to eavesdrop on conversations by measuring minute vibrations in reflective surfaces.But rather than using expensive, specialist equipment, the researchers were able to extract audio from a high-speed video of everyday objects.In one instance, they even extracted recognisable sound from a video shot on a normal digital camera.“When sound hits an object, it causes the object to vibrate,”explained MIT graduate student Abe Davis. “The motion of this vibration creates a very subtle visual signal that’s usually invisible to the naked eye. People didn’t realise that this information was there.”By analysing high-speed video of a potted plant, for instance, Davis and the rest of the team were able to extract the recording of “Mary Had a Little Lamb” which was played alongside it.In another experiment, they were able to recreate the voice of a human reading the lyrics to the song from video of a crisp packet filmed through a glass door.As well as the obvious applications for surveillance and law enforcement, Davis plans on seeing whether the acoustic properties of objects reveal more information about their internal make up, calling it “a new kind of imaging”.“We’re recovering sounds from objects,” he says. “That gives us a lot of information about the sound that’s going on around the object, but it also gives us a lot of information about the object itself, because different objects are going to respond to sound in different ways.”Typically, the algorithm that allows them to extract this information requires a camera that records very high-speed video; the frequency of audible sound (the number of vibrations every second) ranges from 20 to 20,000 Hz, and a sound can only be extracted by a camera with a frame rate higher than the frequency itself.Conventional cameras, with a frame rate of just 60 frames per second, cannot be used to extract anything more than extremely low-frequency sounds.But the researchers came up with a second technique, using the “rolling shutter” typical on digital video cameras, to extract enough information from the video to still recreate high-frequency audio.Because such cameras don’t save the whole image in one go, but rather record the video line-by-line, far more data can be extracted from it. A simple digital SLR camera, shooting video of a crisp packet at 60fps, can then be used to recreate the audio being played to that packet.Alexei Efros, a professor of electrical engineering at the University of California at Berkeley, praised the work of the group as “new and refreshing”.“We’re scientists, and sometimes we watch these movies, like James Bond, and we think, ‘This is Hollywood theatrics. It’s not possible to do that. This is ridiculous.’ And suddenly, there you have it. This is totally out of some Hollywood thriller. You know that the killer has admitted his guilt because there’s surveillance footage of his potato chip bag vibrating.”The full paper will be presented at computer graphics conferenceSiggraphlater this week.•Laser spying: is it really practical?
“Strong female character” is one of the most loaded phrases in video game design. Often slung at any female protagonist who does more than act as a prize for a conquering male hero, its meaning is ambiguous, its usage often prescriptive and controlling. And sometimes it points in entirely the wrong direction.Lara Croft is perhaps the most famous woman in gaming. Since the original Tomb Raider arrived in 1996, the character has attracted criticism for her physical appearance – so when the most recent release in the series gave her a realistically proportioned body, the new Lara was praised as a more relatable hero. Removing the over-sized breasts and teeny, tiny waist is apparently all that was needed for the character to evolve from sex object to admirable “survivor”.In stark contrast, however, is the eponymous star of Bayonetta, a hyper-kinectic action adventure from cult Japanese developer, Platinum Games.Bayonetta is a powerful witch who battles angels, shoots from her gun-heeled shoes and transforms her hair into hellish demons that rip apart her foes. She is a super-idealised character who has all the ostensibly negative physical features of the old Lara, but whose body and sexuality are embraced and used as a weapon to control and manipulate her enemies.Sexuality and aggressionAt first glance, it’s easy to dismiss Bayonetta as just another male fantasy, another female character to be ogled and abused. But, in reality, the character is a power trip for and about women. Through her overt sexuality, her acceptance and love of her own body, Bayonetta makes the men in the game (and perhaps many of those playing) uncomfortable. During the story sequences, male agents of God become stuttering fools in her presence; she owns and shows off her body, she dances and straddles her foes; the camera often points upwards so that she is in effect thrusting her vagina into the face of the player.While Bayonetta fully embraces her sexuality, in the Tomb Raider reboot, Lara fades into her grueling, grey surroundings. Her focus throughout the game is Samantha, another survivor of the shipwreck that brings Croft to the game’s savage island setting, and everything suggests that their relationship is more than just a friendship; lingering smiles, gentle touches and the resilience with which they protect and defend each other. The game’s writer, Rhianna Pratchett, has evenhinted in interviewsthat she would have been interested in making the character gay.This was never acted upon. Perhaps the development team felt that her sexuality had to be repressed in order for her to become an acceptable female hero; perhaps she needed to remain “available” to the game’s male fanbase. Whatever, the carefully staged romantic tensions between the two are left incomplete and unrealised.Femininity, gameplay and narrativeDespite appearances, Bayonetta rarely panders to the imagined male audience. Yes, she’s ridiculously proportioned and scantily clad for most of the game, but far from being an object, she is portrayed as having complete autonomy and control over her body and femininity.Lara Croft has had to change to fit into the “strong female character” role, whereas Bayonetta whips it into submission and makes no apology for her love of lipstick, high heels or, indeed, herself. Everything about Bayonetta is determined by her womanhood and femininity, yet she remains dominant throughout: during the course of the game she spanks angels, submits them to humiliating torture attacks and transforms into a panther, clad with painted red claws and gold jewellery. Bayonetta is a powerful woman, she is not powerful in spite of being a woman.For all the praise of Lara’s growth throughout Tomb Raider, that maturation process is arguably nothing more than a jarring graduation from doubting, guilt-ridden girlhood into lean, mean, psychopathy. Her first kill is supposed to devastate us as it apparently devastates Lara but, almost immediately, we’re thrust back into a game which rewards us for killing. Lara is a character who is even uncomfortable in her own story.Parents, development and the ‘survivor’Tomb Raider’s tagline tells us, “a survivor is born” and Lara is put through horrific abuse before she can transcend from naïve youngster to hardened survivor. But within games and wider media, the “survivor” is a tired trope, women are survivors where men are heroes; they overcome rather than succeed.Lara’s constant doubts are always quelled by a reassuring, grumbled platitude from a male character, Conrad Roth, who takes on a father role. Only through Roth’s teaching and physical protection can Lara be born again as “survivor”. Throughout the game he whispers to her, “You can do this. You’re a Croft.” By virtue of her familial name, inherited from her father, Lara is granted the intelligence, agility and strength to survive the intense battering the game puts her through.Family also impacts Bayonetta’s story, but in a very different way. When, during one sequence, a toddler named Cereza addresses her as “mummy”, the titular character is plunged into perceived motherhood. Reluctantly, she cares for the child but remains the same lewd, extravagant and powerful woman we’ve come to know.It’s later revealed that, through a twist in time and reality, Cereza is in fact Bayonetta as a child. It’s strange but the message is interesting: by giving two parts of the same person different names, the line is drawn between womanhood and childhood, the sexed and non-sexed subject. Whereas Lara develops from woman to “survivor”, Bayonetta develops from child to woman. Whatever the intentions, Lara’s development casts women as synonymous with vulnerability whereas in Bayonetta’s development, vulnerability is left far behind.Bayonetta presents us with a truly empowering woman who’s unapologetically feminine, sexual and confident. Dismissed by many as an objectified fantasy, she is a woman without compromise who refuses to be ashamed of her body, who in one sequence giggles seductively as she grasps the pulsating heart of a heaven-sent deity and asks: “Do you want to touch me?”
Members of Mozilla’s developer community have been alerted about an accidental leak of email addresses and encrypted passwords, after the failure of a “data sanitisation” process the organisation was carrying out.Mozilla, which is most famous for its Firefox web browser, co-ordinates the development of a number of open-source software projects through the Mozilla Developer Network.“Starting on about 23 June, for a period of 30 days,” the organisation warned developers, “a data sanitisation process … had been failing, resulting in the accidental disclosure of MDN email addresses of about 76,000 users and encrypted passwords of about 4,000 users on a publicly accessible server.”The passwords were stored as salted hashes, an encryption process which renders it computationally impossible to retrieve the original password in a readable format, and Mozilla says that, by themselves, they “cannot be used to authenticate with the MDN website today”.But it adds that “it is possible that some MDN users could have reused their original MDN passwords on other non-Mozilla websites or authentication systems”.Stormy Peters, the company’s director of developer relations,says that“as soon as we learned of [the leak], the database dump file was removed from the server immediately, and the process that generates the dump was disabled to prevent further disclosure.“While we have not been able to detect malicious activity on that server, we cannot be sure there wasn’t any such access.”Beard confirmed as new CEOThe Mozilla Foundation recently named Chris Beard, its interim CEO, as the new permanent head of the Mozilla Corporation – a for-profit wholly owned subsidiary which publishes the Firefox browser.Beard had replaced Brendan Eich as CEO on a temporary basis in April, after the latterresignedowing to controversy surrounding his donations to a campaign against same sex marriage.“We know why people are hurt and angry, and they are right: it’s because we haven’t stayed true to ourselves,” said Mitchell Baker, the Mozilla Foundation’s executive chairwoman, at the time. “We didn’t act like you’d expect Mozilla to act. We didn’t move fast enough to engage with people once the controversy started. We’re sorry. We must do better.”Confirming that Beard was to stay on as CEO on a permanent basis,Baker said in a blog postthat “over the years, Chris has led many of Mozilla’s most innovative projects.“We have relied on his judgment and advice for nearly a decade. Chris has a clear vision of how to take Mozilla’s mission and turn it into industry-changing products and ideas.”Mozilla CEO Brendan Eich resigns in wake of backlash to Prop 8
Sverker Johansson is, indirectly, one of the most prolific editors on Wikipedia, the collectively-edited online encyclopaedia.The Swedish science teacher, who goes by the username Lsj on the website, is the creator of Lsjbot, an automatic editor of wikipedia whichhelped makethe Swedish language version of the site the eighth in the world to hit one million articles.So far, Lsjbot has created 3m articles across multiple versions of the site, and racked up more than 10m individual edits. Its main task, according to Johansson, is creating articles about all species of plants and animals, and most of those ten million edits are related to that task one way or another.Once upon a time, bots on Wikipedia were rare, but Johansson says that these days they’re an increasingly important part of the machinery of Wikipedia. His own story is typical: “At first, around 2007, I started editing Wikipedia ‘by hand’, the same way as everybody else; then, in 2011, I started editing by bot.”There are limits to what can be done by bots, of course. “Anything requiring real creativity or real language understanding requires a human mind directly at the keyboard,” Johansson explains. But of the tasks that can be done automatically, an increasing amount are.“[They do] lots of maintenance work. Locating and sometimes fixing syntax errors and other anomalies in articles. Identifying vandalism.” On English Wikipedia, the bots are also used for “repairing vandalism.” And everywhere, they can be found “updating stuff, archiving old discussions, adding date stamps to manual problem reports, etc. Changing [for example] the categorisation of articles.”Robots writing Nasa’s history?A major hazard of that approach, though, is that articles end up being created, not because they to the sum of human knowledge, but because they can be created automatically.In 2008 – almost prehistory, by Wikipedia bot standards – an algorithm called ClueBot II “wrote” 15,000 articles on asteroids, by parsing and rewriting public data from NASA’s database.Those articles sat there, being edited by other bots – one changed the tags, another linked to the Japanese version, a third corrected a style guide issue – until an actual humanrealisedthat having “an out of date, broken, copy of the NASA web site” wasn’t the best way to run an encyclopaedia.In 2012, the creation was finally undone, and today, all of Cluebot’s work lives in one ‘list of minor planets’.‘Bots go through an approval process’Erik Möller, the deputy director of the Wikimedia Foundation, which oversees the site, is unconcerned by examples like Cluebot.“There is a comprehensive policy governing the use of bots,” he told the Guardian.“Bots typically go through an approval process where a determination is made by humans whether the task they perform is useful. Bots that merely perform unnecessary busywork are either not approved in the first place or shut down.”But he concedes that “the structured data in Wikimedia projects in particular will increasingly be maintained in automated ways, which should help keep things up-to-date and reduce the potential for human error in manually importing or updating numbers”.Robot: freeing journalists to do journalismWikipedia is by no means the only site seeing an increase in the amount of content created by algorithms. Perhaps the most notable example is the Associated Press, which announced in June that a robot would be taking over the majority of US corporate earnings stories.The AP’s managing editor, Lou Ferrara,reassured readersthat the technology would “free journalists to do more journalism and less data processing”.“We are going to use our brains and time in more enterprising ways during earnings season,” he added.Johansson, for his part, defends the practice of automatically creating thousands of articles.“Once in a while some really obscure place ends up in the news – say there is a plane crash in some hamlet you never heard of… But since we can’t know in advance which hamlet will be in the news tomorrow, better make a stub about every single hamlet.”•Wikimania, the annual Wikimedia Foundation conference, runs from 7-9 August at London’s Barbican Centre•Wikipedia link to be hidden in Google under ‘right to be forgotten’ law
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamIcann bids to stop Iran web domain seizure &gt;&gt;&gt;BBC NewsThe attempt to grab the domains is part of a court case begun by the families of four Americans injured in a suicide bombing in Jerusalem in 1997 for which Hamas claimed responsibility.This is… odd.Europe envies how the U.S. procures tech, but it may lack the military might to mimic it &gt;&gt;&gt; The Washington PostThis is “procurement activism,” says Weiss, pointing to the fact that such iconic American companies as IBM, Boeing and Texas Instruments had defense industry bodies as their first big customers. Defense and intelligence dollars, Weiss details, fertilized the creation of everything from the Internet to Silicon Valley to the U.S. semi-conductor industry.War! What is it good for? Funding a military-industrial complex of the size and complexity needed to boot-strap a technology industry that can dominate the world.Hotel Fines Brides “As A Joke” &gt;&gt;&gt; Business InsiderThis morning, The New York Post’s Page Six reported that the Union Street Grand House in Hudson, New York, had a policy on its website that said they fine wedding guests $500 if they leave negative reviews about the hotel online. The story spread like wildfire, and lots of people went to Yelp to leave angry one-star comments about the way the USGH runs its business.Not entirely clear whether this is a reverse ferret or a genuine excuse, but either way, it’s stupid as hell.Electric Objects: A Computer Made for Art by Electric Objects &gt;&gt;&gt; KickstarterThere’s more art on the Internet than in every gallery and museum on Earth. But many of these beautiful objects are trapped. They’re trapped inside of devices like our phones, our tablets, our TVs, our laptops devices designed for distraction, living between texts, tweets, football games and emails from work. So we wanted to make a new way to bring art from the Internet into your home.Can Electric Objects revive the “digital picture frame”?I Want It, and I Want It Now: It’s Time for Instant Gratification &gt;&gt;&gt; Re/codeSix minutes later, there’s a car in my driveway. I flail to find some flip-flops and go downstairs to greet the driver, who pulls my order from an insulated bag and cooler in his passenger seat. It’s not like he has a whole pantry in there; I picked two of the four items on the SpoonRocket menu that day.Instant food is rather appealing.Two men convicted for keeping ‘truly disturbing’ porn on their mobile phones &gt;&gt;&gt; Mirror OnlineBoth men said they had received the content from an unknown source, and had been unable to watch it all due to feeling “sickened”. The videos and image were later recovered by police after they stopped the defendants, both from Essex, in London in January on an unrelated matter.A criminal record for being sent, and then attempting to delete, obscene texts doesn’t seem the best outcome.You can followGuardian Technology’s linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday. It's also my birthday.
Amobile phone gamein which players pretend to be the Israeli military bombing Gaza has been removed from the Google app store, a spokesman for the internet firm said on Monday after a public backlash.Bomb Gaza, which is designed for Android phones and tablets, had been downloaded up to 1,000 times since its release on 29 July 2014, according to app store data. Its stated aim is to “drop bombs and avoid killing civilians”.Seemingly designed to offend, the game reflects the real-life conflict in Gaza in which at least1,800 Palestinians have been killed. Many comments on the game’s review section expressed outrage that the game was given a platform by Google, though some also defended Israeli positions.Utterly shameful. Real people, many of them children, are dying in Gaza. Many of those who haven’t been killed face life with debilitating injuries, bereavement and without homes. Their suffering is as real as yours or mine, and to make light of it like this speaks of your essential failure as a human. Shame on the creators of this game, and those who ‘play’ it.–George CooteWTF There is ongoing conflict in which people are dying and you seem to find it acceptable to make a game of it. That’s fucked up.–William HowgateUsers angry with the game’s availability. Photograph: Google PlayIts maturity setting – designed to protect younger gamers from harmful content – was listed as ‘low”, which meant younger players were encouraged to play it.The developer,PLAYFTW, described “an improved performance” in a second release of the game which mentioned the addition of “Israel’s theme music”.Many people called upon Google to take the game down swiftly, and pointed users in the direction of the Report button.Please take this off the play store. It is offensive and I am really let down that Google actually allowed this. If this game isn’t removed I’m starting a Google boycott. –Oma AlApart from Bomb Gaza, there are other titles on the Android store which reference the ongoing conflict between Israel and Palestine. There is also a game namedGaza Assault: Code Red(with a five star rating) andIron Dome, based on Israel’s controversial US funded missile defence system.Gaza Assault: Code Red game. Photograph: Google Play“We remove apps from Google Play that violate our policies,” a spokesman for Google said, confirming that the game had been removed from the Google Play app store. Google did not specify which policy the game had violated.The Guardian has contacted Roman Shapiro, the developer responsible forPLAYFTW’s titles, which also include a piano playing game and aSpace Warsimulation.•Android ‘Fake ID’ flaw could leave millions open to attack
A tip-off from Google about the contents of a Gmail account led to the arrest of a 41-year-old Texan for possession of child abuse material, police revealed last week.Police say the search firm tipped off America’s National Centre for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC) about material that it detected in an email sent by John Henry Skillern, a registered sex offender from Houston.“He was trying to get around getting caught, he was trying to keep it inside his email,”Detective David Nettles told local news channel KHOU 11. “I can’t see that information, I can’t see that photo, but Google can.”Google would only say that “we don’t comment on individual accounts”, but the Guardian understands that the process is similar to the system that the company rolled out in 2008 to try and clear its search results of child abuse material.Images are hashed, a process that creates a unique identifier (known as a hash) while rendering it impossible to recreate the initial image, and the hash is compared to a database of known child abuse images. The technology used by Google to hash the image is unique, and was developed specifically to solve this problem.The hashes are then compared with a database of known child sexual abuse images, and if they match, the image is passed on to the NCMEC, or its British counterpart the Internet Watch Foundation. At that point the first human – a trained specialist at one of the two organisations – sees the image, and decides whether or not to alert the authorities.In 2013, Google expanded this system, partially in response to pressure from the Prime Minister. “Recently, we have started working to incorporate these fingerprints into a cross-industry database,” said the company’s chief legal officer, David Drummond, at the time. “This will enable companies, law enforcement, and charities to better collaborate on detecting and removing child abuse images.”“Google is in the business of making information widely available, and we’ve always supported freedom of expression. But there can be no free speech when it comes to images of child sexual abuse.”Google isn’t the only email provider that scans email for child abuse images. In 2013,another man was caughtsharing illegal images using his AOL email address. But providers don’t tend to shout from the rooftops that they operate such programs.That’s partially to balance the efforts to help organisations such as the IWF (which Google also part-funds) with the requirement to avoid disclosing details that will allow criminals to abuse the system. But it’s also because privacy campaigners tend to criticise the companies for handing over private emails.The ACLU’s Christopher Soghoian noted to The Virginian Pilot that the ability to scan emails for child abuse images can easily be expanded to other ends.“The impact of this system extends far beyond the company’s desire to assist in the discovery of this particularly horrible form of illegal content,”he wrote.“Such expanded surveillance can be performed, quite easily, if the government provides AOL with a list of additional hashes to add to the company’s database and then forces the company to detect the transmission of those other types of prohibited content.”How Microsoft, Google and ISPs aim to halt child abuse images
A festival is not a natural place to think about video games. At Camp Bestival this weekend, the sun was out, the crowds were swarming between stages; there were circus acts, acoustic sets, storytelling sessions for children. Everybody was enjoying being outside, surrounded by friends, music and the Dorset countryside – there were very few screens, apart from at the Skylanders Trap Team promotional area which drew excited kids and wary parents, mumbling to each other that they’d wanted to escape that kind of thing …But for an hour on Sunday, in front of a surprisingly large audience at the Guardian’s tent, I talked about video games on stage with Jemima Kiss. What we wanted to do was place games in a cultural context to show how they’ve evolved, what they have to offer and why the newspaper covers them. We wanted to show that games have a place at this table.The history of gamesSometimes people are surprised by just how long these things have been around – since 1958, in fact – so we started there. The sports sim Tennis for Two was programmed on an ancient analog computer by William Higinbotham at the Brookhaven National Laboratory. It ran on an oscilloscope screen.From here, our talk took in landmark titles in the history of games as an industry; from Pong through to Candy Crush Saga. There was Space Invaders, which popularised the shoot-em-up genre and introduced reactive sound, the looping four-note background music speeding up as the alien invaders neared your ship. We considered Pac-Man, one of the first marketable game protagonists, which introduced the idea of merchandising to the sector.We talked about Tetris and its perfection of “tidying up” as a game mechanic, and Street Fighter 2, and the way an error in the game’s character animation had the unexpected benefit of revolutionising the fighting game genre. Grand Theft Auto and Call of Duty, also figured, the former for kickstarting the open-world action adventure, the latter for, well, becoming the biggest entertainment franchise in the world.Grand Theft Auto 5 – inside the creative process with Dan HouserCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare – a non-gamer’s guideGames and violenceAware that there were lots of parents in the audience, we wanted to talk about violence. A myth I still encounter from non-players is that most games are about shooting and graphically depicted death. Actually, although shooting obviously remains a vital game mechanic, 75% of games released during 2013 were suitable for children under 16, and less than 10% were rated 18. However, we were keen to emphasise that 18 means 18; it’s not a casual suggestion, titles with this rating are absolutely unsuitable for children. Games aren’t a bogeyman but parents have a role in ensuring that children are protected from graphic violence. That’s a message people don’t often want to hear.As for the long-term link between game and real-world violence – after 30 years of interrogation, none has been scientifically established. Research into the matter is often limited (and, arguably, flawed) in its methodology and focus; short term spikes in aggression can be given undue prominence, while meaningful studies are often misrepresented by tabloid newspapers looking for something easy to blame the latest gun tragedy on. It is impossible to apportion specific blame when violence happens – myriad socio-cultural influences are involved.What every parent needs to know about video games: a crash courseVideo games and violence: a parents’ guideWhy do we cover games?That’s the question I really wanted to answer at Camp Bestival, where we were surrounded by culture and vibrancy. The simple answer is that video games are often beautiful, compelling and clever – they can be emotional, enriching and meaningful. They are inspiring a new generation of film makers (JJ Abrams, Duncan Jones and, oh dear, Michael Bay), they areinspiring interesting immersive theatre practitionerslike Punch Drunk and Rift, they inspire musicians, they inspire artists (look at the works of Blast Theory and Cory Archangel).Games are also reaching into other areas. I managed to avoid the dreaded term ‘gamification’, but obviously we covered Minecraft, and how it is beingused extensively in schoolsto teach everything from physics to story-telling. Games are providing distraction therapy in hospitals around the world,helping people to cope with chronic pain, or recovery from major medical procedures. Games help with hand-eye coordination, puzzle solving, planning, multi-tasking. In 2013, a team at UCL and University of Texas found thatStarcraft aided cognitive flexibility. This year, a team at the University of California found that 60-year-olds who regularly played a custom-designed video gameimproved their multitasking abilitiesto levels better than those achieved by 20-year-olds.But most of all, they have value within themselves. They’re fun. Amazing fun. Sure, we are suspicious of their systems of compulsion – Candy crush Saga is designed to entrap us, usinglots of psychological techniquesto keep our interest piqued. But I tried to show that Hollywood does the same thing with its famed three-act structure, a system built around the human attention span and engineered to manipulate our emotions. All the artforms are machines of pleasure.The absolute and inarguable beauty of video gamesHow long should we play?The key, as everyone always says, is moderation. One audience member asked me how long children should play. I pointed toresearch by the American Academy of Pediatricswhich suggested that two hours of screen time a day is a good idea for children. Beyond that, it’s up to parents - every child, every family is different. It’s important to remain pro-active, though – to play the games that come in to the house, to understand that all consumer devices, from consoles to iPads, have parental controls, to have an idea of what children are playing and what they get out of it. Games lose that mantel of fear and suspicion when you engage with them – and they can spark interest in other things: my sons are a heck of a lot more interested in geology and physics since they started playing Minecraft and Terraria.Is my child spending too much time playing video games?Jobs for gamersThere was another positive message too – that today’s gamers may well be tomorrow’s game makers. The UK has a strong games industry, it is one of the most important creative sectors in the country. There are over 500 studios here, producing both blockbuster titles (Grand Theft Auto, Batman, Forza Horizon) and offbeat independent gems (Dear Esther, Proteus, Sir You Are Being Hunted). Playing games can lead to a career in games, an industry where physicists, architects, artists, coders, musicians and actors work together. There are few environments this diverse. And actually, learning how to make games is also a valuable route into programming in general.How to get into the games industry – an insiders’ guideSexism, addiction and other questionsIn the Q&amp;A session that followed the talk, there were interesting questions about the difference between compulsion and addiction (the latter is a pejorative term we tend to avoid), and about the representation of women in games. We talked about the positives of representation (the way titles like Mass Effect and Sunset Overdrive offer gender options for lead characters) and the negatives (lingering sexism within the games community). There is a lot of growing up to do.Afterwards, lots of people came up to chat to me; a medical practitioner (who chatted to me about the use of game controllers in the teaching of surgeons), a social worker, a mum who thought that her son may well like to work in the industry. I hoped that people left the tent, blinking in the sunlight, and thinking that it wasn’t so strange to talk about video games here, amid the circus performers and musicians and crafting tents.Games are a part of culture, rewarding and enriching in their own right, but also expanding out into other areas. It is okay to play them, however old you are, it is okay to enthuse about them, it is okay to be inspired by them. From Pong to Call of Duty, they are thrilling and strange and valuable. The human race loves to play. Play can be a part of everything.
China’s government procurement agency has removed Symantec and Kaspersky from its list of security software suppliers, ensuring that the state can only buy antivirus programmes from Chinese providers.The move to block use of software made by Symantec, based in the USA, and Kaspersky, based in Russia, came to light following an announcement on the English-language Twitter feed of the state-owned People’s Daily newspaper.Govt procurement agency has excluded Symantec &amp; Kaspersky fm a security software supplier list, all 5 in are fm Chinapic.twitter.com/cSqCxVN0jI&mdash; People&#39;s Daily,China (@PDChina)August 3, 2014@PDChinaAll the five antivirus softwares in the list are from China, including Qihoo 360, Venustech, CAJinchen, Beijing Jiangmin and Rising&mdash; People&#39;s Daily,China (@PDChina)August 3, 2014Removal from the list of approved vendors could mean that no official in the vast Chinese state apparatus, which employs around 10 million civil servants, would be allowed to buy their security software from Symantec or Kaspersky.But both firms say that they have heard nothing of the sort.Kaspersky says “There is no evidence” that its products have been “banned” by the Chinese government.“The Chinese Central Government Procurement Center temporarily rescinded its endorsements of all foreign security providers, leaving only Chinese vendors on the approved list,” the company elaborated in a statement. “However, this restriction only applies to federal institutions whose funding comes from the central government procurement budget, and does not include regional governments or large enterprises. We are investigating and engaging in conversations with the Chinese authorities about this matter. It is too premature to go into any additional detail at this time.Symantec said in a statement that the firm “is aware of media reports about the company not being on a China government procurement agency list of anti-virus suppliers.“While we are investigating this report, we would like to clarify that Symantec continues to bid for and win governments projects in China,” it adds. “China is one of our most important international locations and we are committed to the local government and customers. We have been active in the country for more than 15 years and have nine different offices. We have invested significantly in China and are expanding our product development here.”The relationship between China and foreign technology firms has been strained since files leaked by Edward Snowden revealed the extent of the – sometimes unwitting – interplay between American tech companies and the US surveillance state.“This is just the latest in a long-running deterioration of relations between the US and China, underpinned by the security/spying issues highlighted by Snowden,” says Andrew Brown of analysts Strategy Analytics. “It shouldn’t be a surprise that the Chinese want to keep their own security ‘in-house’.”“China is notoriously protectionist and likes to have control over suppliers, which is why it has selected only Chinese vendors Qihoo 360 Technology Co, Venustech, CAJinchen, Beijing Jiangmin and Rising.”In March,it was revealedthat the NSA had specifically targeted Chinese telco Huawei, creating back doors into their networks.While the motive is seemingly to reduce the state government’s reliance on foreign suppliers, the removal comes aftera notice from the public security ministryin June warning that Symantec’s data loss prevention software was insecure, and that branches nationwide should stop using the software.At the time, Symantec told China Daily that “we are investigating the report and talking with the government.”“Symantec has a loophole detection team to ensure product safety,” it added.In May,China banned the use of Windows 8, in the wake of Microsoft ending support for the widely used Windows XP operating system. Last month, the state extended its censure of Microsoft, investigating the company for its “monopoly” of the country’s operating systems. Microsoft said “we aim to build products that deliver the features, security and reliability customers expect, and we will address any concerns the government may have.”Microsoft faces monopoly investigation in China
Hotel keycards are to become thelatest thing to be killed off by smartphones, as the Hilton chain announces a $550m investment in replacing key cards with smartphone technology. But the list of dead and dying technologies smartphones have left in their wake is long.The mobile phoneThe legendary Nokia 3310 is a dying breed. Photograph: Lenscap/AlamySmartphones are the evolution of the mobile phone merged with pocket computers. The rise of the smartphone and extinction of the mobile phone is almost complete in Britain, with an 80% penetration predicted by next year.While mobile phones are still on sale, and some are sticking to their phones that last a week or more on a single charge, the smartphone has rung the death knell and it’s only a matter of time before mobiles go the way of the dodo.Landlines and pay phonesThe pay phone, decomissioned. Photograph: Cultura RM/AlamyMobile certainly started the trend but the smartphone reinforced it. Pay phones are disappearing from our streets and being converted into anything from cash machines to lending libraries.Landline use is also on the decline as smartphones become the only phone many people feel they need, even if mobile phone signal can be dodgy at best inside the home.The point-and-shoot cameraCompact cameras replaced by smartphones. Photograph: Yuya Shino/ReutersThe moment feature phones came equipped with cameras, the days of the compact point-and-shoot camera were numbered. Smartphones really hit the nail on the head, with some far surpassing the quality of cheaper cameras.That’s not to mention video cameras, which were less popular to begin with. The best camera is the one you carry with you, and smartphones are it.The WalkmanThe Walkman and its many iterations through Discman and digital Walkman, even Apple’s iPod, all killed by the smartphone. Photograph: REXWhen was the last time you saw a Walkman or an iPod? Smartphones have become the music player too, with the last bastion of music players being small fitness-focused devices.Now smartphones are light enough and durable enough to go out on a run, and provide data on that run, the days of even the iPod shuffle or Sansa Clip are almost done.DictaphonesWhen was the last time you dictated something into a tape recorder? Photograph: Image Source/Rex FeaturesThe small voice recorders have been on their way out for ages, but smartphones with their sensitive voice mics and recording apps have made them redundant. The only thing most smartphones can’t do yet is record a line-in, but there are ways round that with adapters.Cheap computersTablets killed netbooks, now smartphones are killing off cheap computers and replacing tablets for some duties. Photograph: Burger/Phanie/Rex FeaturesPeople are buying fewer computers, mainly secondary laptops and cheap couch-surfing machines. Tablets have certainly eaten into that market, but it is the smartphone that’s going to seal the coffin.Teenagers especially are turning to smartphones to look up facts and figures or hit Facebook or Twitter, leaving the cheap laptops for dead.Portable TVPocket TVs weren’t popular to begin with, being expensive and with poor battery life, but smartphones put the nail in the coffin in the early days of 3G mobile broadband.Photograph: Terry Johnston/flickrThey weren’t really a mass- market thing, but the smartphone definitely killed them off with live streaming TV. Those and portable media players, but tablets had a go at those too.Pocket calculatorThe pocket calculator is dying a slow death propped up by schools. Photograph: Laurence Kiely/REX FEATURESSmartphones have basic calculators, but they also have scientific calculators that are capable of so much more than most push-button calculators. Not many people actually carried pocket calculators anyway, but schools are one of the last hideouts, as smartphones are not going to be let into exam halls anytime soon.WatchFor many the smartphone has replaced the watch, maybe smartwatches will buck that trend?Photograph: Reg Natarajan/flickrSmartphones tell the time. They’re always accurate – updated directly from the mobile networks – and don’t need adjusting when day light savings come into play. Quite a few people have stopped wearing a watch, simply pulling out their phone for the time.Cheap, non-jewellery watches seem like a dying breed. And then there’s the smartwatch to kill them off for good, if electronics manufacturers can convince people they’re actually worth charging once a day.Alarm clockAlarm clock, your days are numbered. Photograph: KAKIMAGE/AlamyThe humble alarm clock seems to have bitten the dust. Smartphones have taken that role, playing more than simply a beep or the radio when it’s time to wake.Now that sleep-tracking functions know when is the best time to wake you up, the days of the alarm clock are numbered – if not over already.Sat navsEven TomTom branched out with a smartphone app several years ago. Photograph: Richard Gardner/Rex FeaturesSatnavs were a thing once, but smartphones do the navigating job better in most instances. Even manufacturers like TomTom, Navigon and Garmin have realised the connected, multi-function tool is the future, releasing satellite navigation apps on smartphones.Coupled with great, free tools like Google and Apple maps, complete with live traffic reports, traditional personal navigation devices are on the endangered list.What’s next?RemotesRemotes, your days are numbered. Photograph: Andy Drysdale/Rex FeaturesMore and more smartphones come equipped with infrared blasters that can control the TV, the stereo, the Sky box, remotes might be the next to bite the dust.Medical equipmentBlood glucose monitors are in the sights of smartphones, but it will probably still mean pricking a finger. Photograph: Trevor Smith/AlamySmartphones also have medical monitors in their sights. Attachments for measuring blood glucose levels for diabetics and cholesterol for people at risk of heart disease are coming or already here in some instances, replacing often bulky or painful tools.Portable gaming machinesThe PS Vita might be Sony’s last portable gaming console, as smartphones take over. Photograph: Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesThe days of portable gaming consoles seem numbered, as smartphones and tablets become more powerful. The last holdout for the Game Boy and its ilk seems to be physical controls - joysticks, buttons and d-pads are simply better than touchscreen controls for quite a few games.Sony’s PS Vita has bucked the trend recently, mainly thanks to its link-up to the PlayStation 4, but it’s not hard to see it being the last of Sony’s portable gaming machines and the Game Boy could end with the 2DS.WalletsWho needs cash and a wallet when a smartphone can do it all? Photograph: OJO Images Ltd/AlamyDigital wallets have been promised for some time, but haven’t really taken off yet. Smartphones could be the one device for all payments, loyalty cards and tickets.Most banks already have mobile apps, some allow users to pay other users as well as some stores.From September some smartphones can be used to pay for London transport on buses, tubes and rail, and London isn’t alone in this. Other cities have already embraced or are embracing smartphones as the logical extension of contactless cards.Taxi metersApps like Uber could replace the taxi meter, and the traditional taxi service. Photograph: Peter Macdiarmid/Getty ImagesUber’s disruption of the taxi market has been widely documented, and it all hinges on smartphones being used as the method for monitoring journeys, replacing bespoke taxi meters. It might be a while before all taxi meters are replaced with smartphones, but Uber and other services are already pushing at that gate.What else could be killed off by the smartphone? What about those things that could never be displaced? What will survive the rise and rise of the smartphone?
OKCupid’s co-founder has attacked the concept of ethical oversight during experiments on internet users, following his defence of the practice in a blogpost titled “We experiment on human beings!”.Christian Rudder accepted blame for stoking the fires around the topic, admitting that his initial blogpost was “sensationally written”, but stood by the argument that experimenting on users was “just part of the scientific method”.Speaking to On The Media’s TLDR podcast, Rudder said that there was no consideration given to letting users opt-in to experimentation, because “once people know that they’re being studied along a particular axis, inevitably they’re gonna act differently.“I was in some psych experiments when I was in college, just because they give you 20 bucks to go to the department and you, y’know, you sign a form. But that is informed consent – which users can’t see, but I’m putting in quotes.”Asked by the host, Alex Goldman, if OKCupid had ever considered bringing in an ethicist to vet the experiments, Rudder said: “To wring his hands all day for a $100,000 a year?”.He then clarified that he “was making a joke. No, we have not thought about that”.He later asked “What if our algorithm was far worse than random? Then if we hadn’t had run that experiment we basically are doing something terrible to all the users. Like, this is the only way to find this stuff out, if you guys have an alternative to the scientific method I’m all ears”.How acceptable is it to ‘play’ with users’ data?Rudder explained that the motivation for his blogpost was trying to kickstart a conversation around the acceptability of websites experimenting on users. “If you think that OKCupid has unlocked the mysteries of love and has an ironclad algorithm,” he said, “and prophetically can tell you exactly who is right for you, you’re a crazy. Y’know?“So, we’re doing our best, for sure, and it’s the same thing. I think people will realise that that’s how these sites work, that’s how they evolve, they’re doing the best job that they can, and they also have their own interests as well. And, and maybe that’s the process that we’re looking at. And that’s the kind of, again the kind of conversation that I think Facebook on accident, and OkCupid on purpose, is trying to kickstart.”Rudder hadweighed into the conversationwith a blogpost in late July detailing the ways in which OKCupid performed experiments to assess the value of its service.While the company is known for its use of data to improve its services, for many users the approach to experimentation – actively interfering with the site, as opposed to passively observing – was unsettling.“First, going on ‘a date you didn’t like’ isn’t a frivolous thing,”wrote the journalist Tim Carmody. “It definitely incurs more material costs than not seeing a Facebook status. And bad (or good) messages or a bad or good date can definitely have a bigger emotional impact as well.“More importantly, though, don’t make this just a question about dates or feelings, about what somebody did or didn’t read and what its effect on them was. I don’t care if you think someone making a dating profile is a frivolous thing. Somebody made that. They thought the company hosting it could be trusted to present it honestly. They were wrong.”OKCupid: we experiment on users. Everyone does
In May, location-based social network Foursquare announced a surprising new direction. It was ditching the check-in - the core of the app throughout its five-year history - and hiving many of its social features off into an entirely new app, called Swarm.Now, the company has shown off a fully redesigned version of its main app, which finishes that split for good. But Jon Steinback, Foursquare’s VP of product experience, insists it’s not the end of the relaunch.“We’re at the end of the beginning, but not the beginning of the end … We’re no longer the check-in service, we’re about discovering places you’ll love anywhere in the world.”When Churchill made that speech, of course, Britain had stared down potential destruction in the second world war, and barely made it out to tell the tale. Things haven’t been quite so bad for Foursquare, but the launch of Swarm hasn’t gone as smoothly as it could have.The impetus behind the relaunch was to clear the association Foursquare had with “checking in” to a particular location. For years, the core of the app was built around that action: users would open it up, and be presented with a big button that let them tell their friends where they were. It was an idea that grew out of Foursquare founder Dennis Crowley’s previous company, Dodgeball: helping you find where your friends are in a busy metropolis.As Foursquare grew, it changed. The reams of data gleaned from the checkins let it expand into recommendation services, eventually building software that rivals leaders such as Yelp or even Google at helping users discover new places to explore. But the public perception stayed the same.“The idea here was never ‘create the world’s best checkin service’,” says Steinback. “It’s how do you create something that changes the way people interact with cities.”So the company took the drastic option, and split the checking-in functionality off to a new app. Ideally, that would have let the company focus on relaunching its brand with a new focus, while providing the checkin functionality to those users who still wanted to broadcast their location to friends.“The central insight is that there are two different types of behaviour that people have,” Steinback explains. “When you’re looking for a place for dinner, you’re looking for somewhere that matches your tastes. And when you’re looking for a place to get drinks after dinner, you’re looking to meet up with your friends. And those are really, like, the story of Swarm and the story of Foursquare in a nutshell.”But when the Swarm app was released, it felt incomplete, not least because it was fairly prone to crashing. In fact, the apparently unfinished state of the app prompted an angry “breakup letter” to the firm from David Weekly, a product manager at Facebook,who wrote that“Swarm sucked. It crashed. All. The. Time. On iOS. On Android. It introduced extra steps before checkin, force-prompting me to say something witty or attach a picture. It was slow. It hung. It consumed lots of data. And I couldn’t go back.”Steinback accepts that Swarm required a lot of work after launch. “Honestly, we’ve been spending more time than we’d hoped just like fixing some of the core stuff after we launched, cos instead of a couple of hundred testers we have a few million people all around the world, and that’s exposed a lot of stuff we have to fix.”But some of the flaws that Weekly highlights come, not from Foursquare moving too fast, but from it taking a breather halfway through the relaunch. While Swarm is co-existing with the old Foursquare app, inconsistencies are everywhere – not least a checkin button that does nothing but boot the user into a second app. All that should change once the new app launches. Hopefully, the new features will ensure that all is forgiven, and erase the rash of one-star protest reviews breaking out over the app store pages of the two apps.With the service split in half, the Foursquare team can focus in on what they had always intended the app to be: the best way to find new places that you would like to visit. (Meanwhile, the Swarm team focuses on helping you find and hang out with your friends). For Steinback, that’s epitomised by the new tastes feature.“It builds off this idea: what are the most easy to share pieces of information, that can help us deliver a totally customised decision for you? For us, that’s taste. And that’s because we’ve got tens of millions of tips that people have written.“We’ve done a lot of Natural Language Processing on top of that, to extract the tastes that are relevant to a location. When you download the new Foursquare app, we’re going to ask you to add a few tastes, really simply. And then from that, we totally customise your experience.”While accepting that there’s going to be a lot of “re-education” required in teaching existing users about the rationale for two new apps where one used to do, Steinback is convinced that the outcome will be worth it. “We think that the way people explore the world is going to change. This is the way that the industry is going to go, and we’re just kind of excited to push it forward.”Why Foursquare should be on everyone’s phone
It's Monday! Let's get through this with talk of games!
The designated driver question could soon be a thing of the past, as the government has greenlit the testing of self-driving cars on public roads starting next year.A funding pot of £10m from government is available for cities and research companies looking into driverless cars. Three cities across the UK will be chosen with tests beginning in January.While Google has attracted publicity for its prototypes, several research groups across the UK, including the University of Oxford and engineering firm Mira in Nuneaton, already have prototypes ready. Issues including who will pay in an accident still are not clear, but business secretary Vince Cable is convinced the UK is set to become the autonomous car capital of the world.• Miss deliveries no more. The SmartBell is an interactive doorbell that connects delivery drivers or any other visitor to an  app on the homeowner's smartphone wherever they may be when they hit the door bell. Callers can speak to those not at home via video chat or hear a prerecorded message, instructing them where to leave parcels when nobody's home. No more "we missed you" slips or trekking to the depot.• Hearing aid 2.0. The Halo hearing aid wirelessly connects to an iPhone to turn it onto a bespoke speaker for the hard of hearing. Using Bluetooth, users can listen to music, watch movies, play games or take phone calls via the hearing aid. It will even record audio through a built-in microphone to send via email to friends and family.• #wdtm? Twitter's hashtags are set to get easier to use. The social network is testing a new label service that explains what the often obscure hashtag acronyms represent. No more wondering #wdtm (what does that mean)?
A funny thing happened on the way to this column. Browsing idly through thePublishers Weeklysite, I came on the list of theNielsen bestselling books of 2014 (so far) in the US. The Top 20 list was dominated by "young adult" fiction, books such asDivergentby Veronica Roth and John Green'sThe Fault in Our Stars,plus the usual movie tie-ins. At No 9 ,there's a religious book,Jesus Calling: Enjoying Peace in His Presenceby missionary Sarah Young. At No 11 isHeaven is for Real("A little boy's astounding story of his trip to Heaven and back").Two slots further down there's a "junior novelisation" of the Disney film,Frozen. At No 15 is an "activity book", complete with 50 stickers, based on the same film.At this point, your columnist was losing the will to live. Is this, he wondered, what a free society really chooses to read? But what's this? At 16 and 17 there are two computer game manuals –Minecraft: Redstone HandbookandMinecraft: Essential Handbook.The only people in your household who will be astonished that two computer game manuals are selling like hot cakes are the adults. This is because they don't know what every child from the age of six upwards knows, namely thatMinecraftis the most absorbing and intriguing gaming idea since David Braben and Ian Bell createdElitein 1984.What's even more astonishing (for adults anyway) is thatMinecrafthas none of the CGI faux-realism of the blockbuster computer games marketed by Electronic Arts et al. Players are not compelled to act out the crazed, violent, misogynistic scripts dreamed up for them by programmers working for multimedia conglomerates. InMinecraft, there's no realism and no script.Instead, you find yourself in a virtual world made of 1x1 blocks. The analogy with Lego is unmistakable, but the Lego corporation had nothing to do withMinecraft. The virtual world has mountains, valleys, lakes and clouds, but the version of it in which you find yourself is uniquely yours – it's generated by an algorithm.And you are dropped into it with no instructions. So you spend the first few hours simply exploring it as a virtual tourist. And you find that you can do things with blocks, such as build a wall or make a cave.But then you notice that the light fading (aMinecraftdays lasts only 20 real-time minutes) and all of a sudden you are transformed from blithe tourist into frightened rabbit. Because inMinecraftthe night is full of horrors – spiders, skeletons, zombies and camouflaged creepers, all of which have an eerie ability to pursue you relentlessly and remorselessly. And the only way to stay safe is to build yourself some kind of shelter or dig out a cave in which to wait out the hours of darkness.With experience, you figure out ways of coping. You learn how to build elaborate structures and acquire skills that enable you to fashion weapons with which to combat the terrors of the night. And you can build anything you like, as long as it can be made out of blocks, which means that some people have built replicas of the Taj Mahal. Again, the analogy with Lego is compelling.What happens if you don't know how to build something? Answer: go to YouTube and type "Minecraft how to build…"And at this point you begin to appreciate the extent of theMinecraftphenomenon, because the number of people who have proudly explained in video how they constructed this or that in the game is staggering.But the most implausible thing of all is that this ostensibly simplistic and unrealistic game currently has more than 40 million players worldwide, many of whom are fanatical in their devotion to it. And it was created not by some large multimedia corporation but by a single Swedish programmer,Markus Persson, who has made hundreds of millions of dollars from it, and who is regarded byMinecraftplayers with the kind of awed respect that Linus Torvalds is accorded by users of the Linux operating system.TheMinecraftphenomenon runs counter to almost every trend in the contemporary computing industry, which is towards the kind of consumer lock-in and corporate control that we see in the "normal" games industry, in which teenagers frenziedly play a new game for a few weeks and then drop it. And perhaps therein lies the secret ofMinecraft's attraction: it'sopen-ended. Players' possibilities are bounded only by the limits of their imaginations – or by the limits of their knowledge. Which perhaps explains those book sales.
Price: £59,995MPG: 37.7Top speed: 130mphIn the countryside an hour north of London, you’ll find theMillbrook Proving Ground. It’s a private facility owned by General Motors and it’s crisscrossed by roads and tracks of every description. Its centrepiece is the speed bowl – a perfectly circular two-mile motorway. It is precisely banked so when driving at exactly 100mph you hardly have to touch the steering wheel. It’s great for setting endurance records – earlier this year a Vauxhall Astra covered 3,000 miles in 24 hours. An amazing feat, but surely one of the most pointless journeys ever made…I am lucky enough to be spinning round the bowl in the newRange Rover Sport. We’re cruising at a steady 100mph – “doing the ton” as my dad would say. The remarkable thing is that, even at this speed, the Sport feels so calm, composed and serene it’s almost boring. There is no sense of wrestling some fire-snorting beast that’s about to careen off the road in a fireball. Remember Steve Austin losing control in theSix Million Dollar Man: “She’s breaking up, I can’t hold her”? But we’re just sitting here chatting. We could be doing 40mph.The all-new Sport is the fastest, most agile and most technology-packed Range Rover that’s ever been made. The car was launched earlier this year by Daniel Craig. Afilm shows him hammering through Manhattanbefore arriving unruffled at a secret destination to reveal the car to a bunch of gawping celebrities. Employing 007 as a delivery driver makes sense as it highlights Range Rover’s impeccable British credentials (it’s built in Solihull), while New York is the model’s best-selling city.After belting round the bowl, I head on to one of Millbrook’s fiendish off-road routes, plunging through waist-deep water and blasting up muddy inclines. The Sport is so capable, it makes even this seem easy. A bit like Bond, I suppose.The Range Rover Sport’s electric power steering gives a lightness of touchI’m not a big fan of the aesthetics of the car. It has mean little headlamps which peer from its flat-fronted face like Clint Eastwood staring into the sun. It looks over-buffed, over-pumped, as if it’s been at the ’roids. But if you are after an imposing, assertive Alpha-car, you can call off the search – its road presence is undeniable and driving it makes you feel imperious. But that’s all just window dressing: what the Sport is really about is capability and functionality. It’s been designed to be driven hard on or off the road, all the while transporting you on a perfumed cloud of primped luxury. And in this department it has few equals.Its aluminium construction makes it half a tonne lighter than the outgoing model, which in turn means it is more efficient and responsive. All electric power steering gives a lightness of touch even when crashing through the undergrowth. There are several engines to choose between: from the bully-boy supercharged 5-litre 510PS V8 petrol to a more sensible 3-litre 258PS TDV6; a high-efficiency diesel hybrid is scheduled for later this year.I spent a day searching fruitlessly for any kind of limit to this car and in the end felt humbled to be sitting at its wheel. There really are some very clever people out there…
When originally released for PS3 last summer,The Last of Usenjoyed praise, awards and a place among the ranks of the true greats of game design. Here, the engrossing tale of survival in a contemporary post-apocalyptic world returns, with a technological spit and polish for the next-gen console where it remains a brilliantly written, graceful action game, both challenging and sometimes genuinely unsettling.But withRemastered, this intelligent story is also noticeably prettier. Animations are more graceful, detail is richer, and there are generally fewer instances where the illusion of struggling to exist in a collapsed society is interrupted by graphical impurities. Beyond this, there is also extra content originally released as separate downloads and a smattering of new features, such as customised support for the PS4 controller, meaning thatRemasteredis ultimately a subtle refining of a game released only a year ago, rather than a revolutionary reworking. But in the case of this masterpiece, that is more than enough.
There is something overwhelmingly 90s about the beat-'em-up genre, so it seems entirely appropriate that a fighter ported over to iOS should celebrate the era with pride.The King of Fighters 98(SNK Playmore, £2.49) is a celebration of button-bashing that collects all the combatants from the series' history and pits them against each other in three&nbsp;v&nbsp;three bouts.KoFmay not be as familiar as Capcom's street-based favourite, but the gameplay matches up well, with four buttons for light and heavy attacks, and the usual duck, dash, crouch and jump mechanism, using the d-pad. The fancy "desperation" strikes can be tricky to pull off, with finger-twisting combinations required, and the whole thing is much easier using a control pad rather than the on-screen buttons.Lack of online multiplayer mode is a shame, but local support using bluetooth seems apt for a genre that has its roots in the gritty, hands-on arena of the old-school arcade, where getting up close and personal with your foe was a necessity, not a hardship.
One of the chief amusements of the current technological age is that Twitter, a social network built on posts 140 characters in length, is constantly called upon to explain itself at exhaustive length.On the plus side, the social network claims 270 million users and 500m tweets a day and is one of the fastest and most useful sources of news and entertainment on the planet.But there are problems that cannot be answered in a tweet: the slew of management departures; the financial losses; and the rate at which it is gaining new users.Most analysts and users who follow Twitter's progress take an almost maternal tone, a protective sense of ownership that includes some sharp corrective tut-tutting about potential improvements. This is particularly true about the company's great strength – its rapid-fire delivery of information – which is also its great weakness in appealing to untutored users."Twitter may be great for the media, and great for people like me who care about very specific topics. That's extremely useful and saves me tons of time and money. But your average internet user is not going to use it," says Youssef Squali, an analyst with Cantor Fitzgerald. He suggests that Twitter's first order of business is to become more user-friendly: "The platform needs to be dumbed down."There is, however, no shortage of company defenders to rebut such criticism. More than one venture capitalist bristles when asked what Twitter could do better. "I think Twitter is amazing," says one investor. Jason Stein, the founder of New York social-media branding agency Laundry Service, calls Twitter an "incredible company" and an "awesome platform".And Twitter is making progress, albeit not as fast as many would like.The company's second quarter earnings last weekexcited investors, with revenues rocketing 124% to $312m and a 24% increase in users, including a 29% jump in coveted mobile users. On Wall Street, where only apathy is punished, Twitter gets some credit for its constant attempts at self-improvement. "The most important thing is the product, which has improved, and [chief executive Dick Costolo] has improved the user experience, increased new users and increased engagement. Those were the things that were very clear, that I as an analyst look for," says Anthony DiClemente, a digital media analyst at Nomura Securities.Twitter, by most Silicon Valley measures, is a success, one of the few companies that escaped the nerdy, limited orbit of techland and enters the global consciousness. And its potential growth is huge, says DiClemente: "It's still a company that's still in its infancy."But there are only so many breaks that critics are willing to give Twitter. It has yet to escape the shadow cast by the Death Star of social media, Facebook. Facebook is only a few years older than Twitter but many times the size, and it is customary for analysts to measure Twitter's progress in Facebook years: "Twitter is where Facebook was two years ago," or "Twitter reminds me of Facebook in 2009," for instance.This is, by any stretch, an intimidating comparison. Facebook has more than 1 billion users, increased its sales by 44% in a year, and is one of the tech industry's five biggest companies in market value. And that is the pressure point: If Facebook can launch itself into the stratosphere, the thinking goes, so can&nbsp;Twitter.Of particular concern to those who want Twitter to shoot for the moon is the company's slowing growth in the US, with the addition of only 3 million American users in the last three months. "That doesn't help them in any way," says Stein.Squali agrees: "If they add 10 million or 12 million or 15&nbsp;million users a quarter, it's not going to cut it. Facebook has proven you can get a platform that can get over 1 billion users. Facebook in 2009 was growing 100% a year. These guys are clearly not. They're growing at 30% a year."Another area where Twitter lags behind Facebook is user engagement."Twitter, at 270 million users, is one of the largest mass media platforms ever," says Squali. "If you look at that, then it's clearly a success. Then you look at user engagement at less than five minutes a day… [When you] compare it to Facebook, with 1.3 billion users and average engagement of 40 minutes, you think it's not as impressive."This is not an idle rivalry. Twitter and Facebook are competing for advertising dollars, which bring survival and growth. Stein says Laundry Service sees 75% of client dollars go towards advertising on Facebook, with only 25% going to Twitter.Companies like Stein's – shepherding corporate ad budgets to social media companies – may decide the futures of Twitter and Facebook. A survey of 1,700 advertisers by RBC Capital Markets andAd Agefound that 71% of the companies planned to increase their social media ad spending in the coming year, with Twitter and Facebook neck-and-neck and YouTube only slightly behind. Facebook is also making roughly $1.81 on each user in advertising dollars – far outstripping Twitter's $0.89 rate.Facebook has reached out to brands with sophisticated analytics that help them target users, alongside promoting content from those who pay for ranking. It is a neat trick to execute without losing users. Brands appreciate the effort: "On the advertising side, [Twitter] have a long way to go until they get as good at targeting and measurement as Facebook is," Stein says.Another issue that Twitter is frequently queried about is its management changes, which tend to happen quickly. Mark Mahaney of RBC Capital Markets noted that in the first three months of the year Twitter announcedthe resignation of its chief operating officer, Ali Rowghani, and replaced its chief financial officer withformer Goldman Sachs banker Anthony Noto. While Mahaney told clients he was "supportive" of Noto, he also added that "the magnitude of these two changes less than a year after Twitter's IPO strikes us as somewhat unsettling".None of Twitter's flaws are enough to kill the company, say analysts in that maternal tone. But everyone wants it to do just a bit better.Luckily, everyone has a suggestion: better curation, sharper algorithms and so on. If Twitter is indeed still in its infancy, the entire village of the tech world is ready to raise this child.
While venerated classics from gaming history such as 1962'sSpacewarand late-1970s sensationAsteroidsretain their considerable influence across generations of developers in a conceptual, rather than literal, gameplay sense, some modern titles do still borrow directly from the past.Siesta Fiesta, for example, revisits the ball-and-paddle gameplay of icons such as Pong and Breakout. Now, as then, moving a paddle along a 2D plane moves a ricocheting ball to smash blocks and score points.Yet, despite its retro roots, there is that is new introduced to the formula; most levels scroll in the manner typical of 2D shooters, and there are myriad contraptions that influence the path of the ball and hence the score. Equally, the levels bristle with a wealth of detail a world away from the simple playfileds of the past. The scoring can feel a shade shallow at times and considerable drama could have been added with more elaborately spiralling multipliers and greater rewards for risk. But Siesta Fiesta remains an object lesson in taking gameplay from an established form and breathing fresh life into it, where simple mechanics test the reactions, just as they did decades ago.
Google is set to restrict search terms to a link to a Wikipedia article, in the first request under Europe's controversial new "right to be forgotten" legislation to affect the 110m-page encyclopaedia.The identity of the individual requesting a change to Google's search results has not been disclosed and may never be known, but it is understood the request will be put into effect within days. Google and other search engines can only remove the link – as with other "right to be forgotten" requests, the web page itself will remain on Wikipedia.In May, the European Court of Justice ruled that citizens could ask search engines to remove particular links from results for a search made under their name, if the material was deemed to be out of date, no longer relevant or excessive.Google has already begun to implement the ruling, with tens of thousands of links removed from its European search results to sites ranging from the BBC to theDaily Express. Among the data now "hidden" from Google is an article about the 2009 Muslim conversion of Adam Osborne, brother of the chancellor, George Osborne.Jimmy Wales, who co-founded Wikipedia in 2001 and has overseen its transformation into the sixth most visited site on the internet, told theObserver:"It's completely insane and it needs to be fixed."Wales is one of 10 members of an advisory council formed by Google to decide how to handle takedown requests. The council will travel Europe, with a first hearing scheduled in Madrid on 9 September, before writing guidance for Google and other search engines, such as Microsoft's Bing, on implementing the new law.It was a test case brought by a Spaniard called Mario Costeja González, who wanted a 1998 article about his home being repossessed removed from search results, that triggered the change in legislation."In the case of truthful, non-defamatory information obtained legally, I think there is no possibility of any defensible 'right' to censor what other people are saying," Wales has said. "You do not have a right to use the law to prevent Wikipedia editors from writing truthful information, nor do you have a right to use the law to prevent Google from publishing truthful information. Wikipedia can and should work hard to do a good job, just as Google can and should work hard to do a good job."On Thursday, Google revealed that France, with 17,500 requests, had made more demands for changes to search results than any other European nation. Germany had made 16,500 requests, and 12,000 requests originated in the UK. Some 8,000 requests came from Spain, 7,500 from Italy, and 5,500 from the Netherlands.By 18 July, Google had received 91,000 takedown requests in total, relating to 300,000 pages.  Its privacy counsel, Peter Fleischer, revealed it had refused around 32% of them, asked for more information on 15%, and removed 53%.The European ruling is not intended to tackle incorrect information, with many of the links removed so far being to news articles whose accuracy has not been challenged. Wikipedia's open editing system means any member of the public can request a change to articles, so long as any new claims are underpinned by independent sources.
My body is in theObserver's offices in King's Cross, but my mind is in another world entirely.Strapped to my head is theGoogle Cardboardvirtual reality headset. Assembled from a handful of simple components, the cardboard contraption has whisked me away into a peaceful forest with red, orange and brown trees.I am completely alone, except for an grey animated rat chasing after a large orange hat. I turn my head to watch as a gust of wind blows the hat and can't help but stumble after the rodent, arms outstretched like a toddler taking its first steps.I look away and as I gaze upwards, the Samsung S4 smartphone in the headset detects my motion and the field of view moves with me. The forest canopy is captivating. When I return to the rat, he is where I left him – the storyline effectively paused when my attention was elsewhere. Eventually, the rat and his hat are reunited and I'm suddenly back in the real world. I am intensely aware that the bridge of my nose is being assaulted by the hard edges of the headset.Windy Day is just one of the apps for Google Cardboard, together withGoogle Street Viewand Google Earth, but is certainly its most charming. Google's do-it-yourself virtual reality (VR) headset is designed to give the public a taste of the immersive possibilities of the virtual world for around £50 – if you have access to an Android smartphone and can find some cheap glass lenses.But it's merely the crest of a growing wave of excitement about virtual reality, most famously led by Oculus VR, the company behind the Oculus Rift headset. Purchased this year byFacebook for $2bn, the Kickstarter that catapulted the company into fame in 2012 was one of the largest crowdfunding projects ever, raising around $2.4m. This is virtual reality's moment in the limelight; it's now time for the technology to deliver.The early 90s saw a similar amount of excitement about the possibilities of VR, with visionaries such as computer scientistJaron Lanierpredicting a future where we worked and played in virtual reality environments online.It soon became apparent that the technology wasn't ready. Virtual reality was a nice idea, but little more than that.This time around it's different, says Professor Albert "Skip" Rizzo, director of medical virtual reality at the University of Southern California's Institute for Creative Technologies."It's 1994 all over again. It's the same thing. But this time it's real," he tells me.Rizzo leads a team looking at the use of virtual reality environments in everything from classrooms for children with attention deficit disorder to exposure therapy for war veterans suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder.Advances in graphics, computing power and interface devices such as the Nintendo Wii or Microsoft Kinect have opened the door to a new level of sophistication of virtual reality, he says. Most important, though, has been the continuing drop in cost of virtual reality technology, a trend largely driven by the gaming industry."Right now, a headset is $2,000… if you could replace that with a $350 headset [such as the Oculus Rift] and have that be better then you're golden – that's the direction we're heading," says Rizzo, whose lab the Oculus Rift's inventor, Palmer Luckey, worked in before launching the headset.The Oculus Rift, which should go on sale next year. Photograph: oculusvr.comAccompanying the improvement in off-the-shelf commercial technology has been a boom in military interest in virtual reality. Put simply, without the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, virtual reality wouldn't be where it is today."The urgency of war required novel solutions," says Rizzo, noting that tens&nbsp;of millions of dollars of US military funding has "fed the scientists in my lab over the last few years". The reason for that funding is simple: virtual reality offers a means of rehabilitating war veterans effectively yet cheaply.One method being pioneered by Rizzo involves taking a veteran through a traumatic incident by immersing them in a recreation of that incident in a virtual world. Clinical trials of the method are still continuing, but "so far all the data has been promising and positive", he says.Just as virtual reality is being used to help soldiers reintegrate into society after returning from war, it is also being used to train them for fighting in the first place.TheDefence Science and Technology Laboratoryat the Ministry of Defence is investigating how virtual reality technology can be used to give the British army an edge in the field. Andrew Poulter leads the research and says that virtual reality training has a number of advantages over traditional training in the field.Take, for example, training soldiers driving in a convoy how to respond to an ambush or an improvised explosive device (IED) attack, as troops in Afghanistan have experienced. Recreating that experience in the field repeatedly requires a significant amount of time and resources. "In a simulation, you can reset back to the beginning and go straight away again," says Poulter. Indeed, research published in 2008, looking at US, Canadian and British forces, showed that soldiers appear to be better prepared for combat when they have been trained in a virtual reality environment as well as in the field. But Poulter is somewhat downbeat about the advantage immersive headsets have over simple desktop monitors, keyboards and mouses. "There's very little done with headsets," says Poulter, for the simple reason that a headset can also prevent the soldiers from performing simple tasks such as taking notes or operating a radio.In truth, VR headset technology still has several failings.The display resolution of virtual reality headsets is still far behind what can be achieved with digital monitors. Nausea is another issue; users of the Oculus Rift, including the CEO, Brendan Iribe, have reported feeling sick after using the headset, an issue the company says it's working to fix in future versions of the device. One sceptic of headset technology is Professor Robert Stone from the University of Birmingham, who has worked on virtual reality projects with everyone from local heritage sites to hospitals to the Ministry of Defence."I've been doing this for 27 years and we always get the question – what is the killer application for virtual reality? – and, to be honest, at the moment there isn't one, because the technology is letting the side down a bit," he says.For him, new headset technology is still held back by the same limitations that scuppered VR in the 90s and the alternative, namely large HD monitors, is a much better means for involving a person in a task or game. Furthermore, he says, VR headsets can be actively harmful to the goal of treating patients, distancing the patient from their doctor or nurse. He is also sceptical of Rizzo's work using the technology to treat PTSD sufferersIn the gaming industry, you find little of Stone's pessimism about virtual reality headsets. The Oculus Rift should go on sale in 2015, Sony is developing its own headset, theMorpheus, and several other companies are trying to get in on the game.Developers are taking note. In 2013, UK-based companynDreamsbegan working almost exclusively on games designed to be played with virtual reality headsets, including an adventure game calledThe Assemblyfor Oculus Rift and Sony Morpheus.nDreams CEO, Patrick O'Luanaigh, is optimistic about the future of headset technology, describing the terrifyingly real experience of playing space horror gameAlien Isolationon the Oculus Rift at June's E3 games conference in Los Angeles."When the alien came for me, I ripped the headset off in fear because it is so scary," he says. "That's the sort of reaction I certainly have never had before with a video game." The only comparable shift in experience, says O'Luanaigh, was the move from 2D to 3D gaming. He estimates that by Christmas 2015, virtual reality headsets will have finally hit the mainstream consumer market in a significant way. And once people start using them, they'll realise why the experience is "so special".After only an hour with Google's Cardboard headset, a low-budget and limited virtual reality experience, it's hard to disagree with him.
Toca, from the verb tocar, means many things in Spanish. Touch, play, perform, ring, press, and more. In the case of Séat's little city car, Toca is simply a new level of trim – better than Standard, Ecomotive and SE, not as good as Sport. It adds rear parking sensors – beeb beeb beeb before you bump – over the SE level below it. So, actually, no toca, you hope. Plus it has a neat little toca-screen above the dash, with satnav, radio, MP3, bluetooth, on-board computer, all that stuff, and a few flashes of blue about the place to give it a blue flashiness inside.It costs a bit more than the more basic models, of course, but it still comes in at four figures, and there aren't a lot of cars that do that these days (he says, sounding like a nostalgic old giffer, perhaps because he is one). There aren't many cars that can't do a ton these days, either. No, it's not quick, takes bloody ages to get to 60mph (there is a slightly more powerful 75ps version of the 1.0-litre three-cylinder engine that's slightly quicker and more relaxed on the motorway). But that's not the point of a Mii. It's for buzzing, cheerfully, cheekily, around town.At which it's the business: agile, well-mannered, entertaining to drive. There's a surprising amount of room inside, in the boot, too, and&nbsp;I'm enjoying my flashes of blue. Maybe a bit plain to look at from the outside, but you don't get beauty for less than 10 grand. Just ask Linda Evangelista. Still, it could be a little more striking to look at.Plainness aside, the only real problem with the Mii is that the nearly identicalSkoda CitigoandVW up!do all of the above, but the Skoda does so slightly more cheaply and the VW slightly more poshly. So if you're after the best value, you'd go for a Citigo, and if you're a bit of snob and after a more prestigious badge on the front, and you're not fussed by irritating punctuation, then the up! is for you (up! yours!).This leaves Mii (Please Don't Leave Mii) in no man's land, neither here nor there, in the middle. Who's it for? Malcolm In The Middle, The Inbetweeners, Buddhists following the Middle Path to nirvana, hoggers following the middle lane of the M40 to Birmingham (no, because I already said it's not really a motorway car), Lib Dems? Or maybe, and more probably, you compare all the different options and trim levels of the three cars, decide that beep-beep-beeping and touchscreens are important, factor in your own prejudices, and decide that this is the one for you. At which point I'd like to get neatly back to toca somehow, but neither my Spanish nor my imagination is up to it, so that's it, the end.Seat Mii 3dr Toca 1.0 60PSPhotograph: Simon Stuart-Miller for the GuardianPricefrom £9,995Top speed99mphAcceleration0-60mph in 14.4 secondsCombined fuel consumption62.8 mpgCO2emissions105 g/kmEco rating8/10Cool rating8/10
Facebook’s main site was down worldwide on Friday afternoon,the second major outage in less than two months.Users began reporting outages shortly after 4pm UK time, but unlike June’s collapse, the failure was spotty at first, with some users reporting continuous access well past 5:15.Many users of the site were instead confronted with an error page reporting that “the requested URL could not be retrieved”. Coverage was largely restored by 5:40pm.Facebook said “We’re working to get things back to normal as quickly as possible.”Sites that use Facebook IDs as login tokenswere also affected by the outage, leaving users unable to log in to services such as Skype for the duration of the downtime.June’s outage was the longest for four years, with the site completely unaccessible for more than 31 minutes. Whether or not this outage counts as longer depends on what time one counts it as starting at.If you can’t get on Facebook, why not kill time with happier memories, such as the time a fictionalised version of Mark Zuckerberg swore that Facebook would never crash, “ever”.
With more than 29m subscribers, PewDiePie is the biggest star on YouTube. Now he’s launched his own mobile app to keep fans watching his videos.Thefree app was released for iPhone this weekby multi-channel network (MCN) Maker Studios, the company to which PewDiePie – aka 24 year-old Swede Felix Kjellberg is signed.Fans can use the app to watch his videos, and create their own feed of favourites, while sharing individual clips with friends via Twitter, Facebook, text message and email.The app is an attempt to bolster PewDiePie’s popularity among a young, mobile-savvy audience – many of whom will already be watching his videos on their smartphones. According to YouTube, mobile devices alreadyaccount for nearly 40% of its global watch time.The PewDiePie YouTube channelracked up 351m views in June 2014 alone, while Kjellberg’s blend of gameplay, jokes and enthusiastic swearing has generated more than 3bn video views in the last year.The official PewDiePie iPhone app.For now, his official mobile app is a fairly basic way to deliver his videos to fans without having to rely on YouTube’s recommendation algorithms.There is be scope to add more features in the future, from chat and community features through to merchandise and PewDiePie’s charitable crowdfunding campaigns – earlier this year, heraised nearly $343,000 on Indiegogofor charity Save the Children.For both PewDiePie and Maker Studios, releasing a mobile app may also offer more independence from YouTube, with many MCNs talking publicly about their desire to build audiences on other platforms too.Maker Studios, which is in the process of being bought by Disney in a deal that could be worth up to $950m if the company hits certain targets in the future, has previously released apps for brands and YouTubers including Epic Rap Battles, Bart Baker, Ray William Johnson and PolarisGo.•YouTube multichannel networks stake claim to the future of TV
It’s time for our weekly roundup of the best new iPhone and iPad apps and games to have emerged on Apple’s App Store.As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app.Want more apps? Browse previousBest iPhone and iPad appsroundups on The Guardian. And if you’re looking for Android apps instead, browse the archives of the weeklyBest Android Appsroundups.APPSScratchJr (Free)The coding-for-kids category is getting crowded on the app stores, but ScratchJr comes from a fine source: MIT, which was responsible for the Scratch visual programming language that inspired it. Aimed at 5-7 year-olds, this app gets children to create stories by slotting together blocks of code. Huge potential.iPadRadio Times Magazine (Free + IAP)What need for a TV listings magazines in the age of electronic programme guides and smart TVs? Well, the Radio Times is still going strong here in the UK, and now it has a new Newsstand version for iOS: essentially a PDF version of the printed mag, but still useful for any couch potato.iPhone / iPadPewDiePie (Free)PewDiePie might just be the biggest TV star in the world, with more than 3bn views of his YouTube channel in the last 12 months alone. Now he has an official app, bringing fans his regular videos, including an option to customise their feed with their favourites. With a young, highly-mobile audience, this’ll be popular.iPhoneTelegraph Clearing (Free)Talking of young, highly-mobile people… This is the Telegraph’s app for 2014’s clearing system for university spaces in the UK: A-Level students who are still looking for a place post-results will be able to use this to browse available courses, with vacancies updated hourly.iPhoneBlue Note 75 (Free)Happy 75th birthday to legendary jazz label Blue Note Records, which is celebrating with a new iPad app showing off its catalogue. You can browse artist biographies, videos and photos from the archives, and if you’re a subscriber to Spotify, Deezer or Rdio, you can sign in to stream the music.iPadIndiegogo (Free)Every crowdfunding service wants their own app nowadays: first Kickstarter did it, and now rival Indiegogo. You can use this app to browse the campaigns trying to raise money on Indiegogo, or to check in on your own campaign if you’re running one.iPhoneCura TV (Free)Here’s an app to make you hungry: Cura TV is a collection of video channels from “speciality food sellers” touting their wares, which you can then buy: “from wine and beer to Italian and Greek food”. The food does look delicious, and the app uses mobile payment system Stripe to make buying it quick and simple.iPhoneAxel Scheffler’s Flip Flap Safari (£0.69)Axel Scheffler may be best known as the illustrator of The Gruffalo, but he has plenty of other projects on his plate. This characterful flip-book-app is the latest: aimed at children, it gets them to create hybrid animals by flipping through tops and bottoms – with each new beast getting its own poem.iPhone / iPadTimeful (Free)Styling itself as an “Intelligent Time Assistant”, this blends your calendar and to-to task list, then learns from your habits to recommend suitable times to schedule in those tasks. It works nicely with Google Calendar, Microsoft Outlook/Exchange and Yahoo! Calendar as well as your iPhone’s default diary, too.iPhoneCBeebies Storytime (Free)This is the BBC’s second official app for its CBeebies pre-school TV channel, and while the first (Playtime) focused on games, this is all about stories. Six stories, in fact, each based on a different show, with voice narration and light interactivity geared towards engaging children in reading.iPhone / iPadModern Combat 5 for iPhone and iPad.GAMESModern Combat 5: Blackout (£4.99)Gameloft’s Modern Combat series is mobile’s answer to Call of Duty: as much military first-person shooting as you can handle, with squad-based action, and a choice of solo or multiplayer online modes. It looks very good, with controls that work on the touchscreen – still not a given for this genre – and plenty of depth.iPhone / iPadTraps n’ Gemstones (£1.99)This may be the slow-burning sleeper hit of the week, judging by early reactions from people playing it. Made by Donut Games, it’s a platform-adventure that has you exploring pyramids in Egypt, recovering relics and fending off enemies. The kind of game where you start playing for a few minutes, and look up half an hour later.iPhone / iPadBlood Bowl (£2.99)I went through the Blood Bowl craze as a teenager, just after Dungeons &amp; Dragons and just before Championship Manager, as I recall. Playing this all-new mobile game brought back plenty of memories. If you’re new to it, Blood Bowl is a turn-based virtual sport: essentially American football with more elves, dwarves and monsters. Oh, and on-field deaths. The game does a good job of capturing its appeal.iPadCrazy Taxi: City Rush (Free + IAP)I’ve been a fan of Sega’s Crazy Taxi since its excellent Dreamcast version, so was nervous about its transition to a freemium mobile game. It’s a bit strange: part driving game, and part Temple Run-style endless runner, as you swipe to switch lanes. There’s still fun to be had picking up fares and driving as unsafely as possible to pick up tips – with the in-app purchases element bearable.iPhone / iPadKairobotica (£2.99)If you know Japanese developer Kairosoft, you’ll know what to expect from this space-strategy game: super-addictive resource-juggling gameplay. In this case, a mixture of town-building and alien-battling. If you’re new to the company’s charms, it’s a good place to start: but charge your battery first, as it’s very moreish.iPhone / iPad80 Days (£2.99)One for anyone who thinks any crossover between books and games will inevitably dumb down the former. This is a brilliant adventure based on the adventures of Phileas Fogg, with a whole world to explore, and a script that will hold your attention throughout. Interactive storytelling at its best.iPhone / iPadDance Party for Apple TV (Free + IAP)Who said you need a Kinect or a Wiimote to play dancing games in the living room? This is a really interesting idea: a music-rhythm game designed to be played from your iPhone on a nearby television – you’ll need an Apple TV set-top box, mind – as you cut some rug to five songs. It’ll also track the calories you’re burning.iPhoneRevolution 60 (Free + IAP)Here’s another adventure game to really get your teeth into: spiffing graphics, a proper plot, and (as its developer puts it) “a cast of complex, strong female characters” – sadly a breath of fresh air still in the modern games industry. Walks the line between animation and game well.iPhone / iPadQuizTix: Video Games (Free + IAP)There’s been a boom in massively-multiplayer mobile trivia games in recent times: QuizUp being the most prominent. The QuizTix games have been focusing on individual themes: football, films, pop music and now games. You answer questions on gaming history, competing against friends.iPhone / iPadThe Great Prank War (£1.99)Finally, a game from Cartoon Network for its Regular Show series: a tower defence game starring Mordecai, Rigby, Muscle Man and other characters from the show. The twist: you can go off sacking enemy towers, rather than just building your own to decimate their armies. Practical jokes are the theme, too: eggs, glue and whoopie cushions all make appearances.iPhone / iPadThose are our picks, but what have you been enjoying on iOS this week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section.•40 best iPhone and iPad games this year (so far)
It’s time for our weekly roundup of the best new Android apps and games to have emerged on the Google Play store.As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app.Want more apps? Browse previousBest Android Appsroundups on The Guardian. And if you’re looking for iOS apps, browse the archives ofBest iPhone and iPad appsroundups instead.APPSTynker Premium (£2.93)Tynker is one of a growing number of apps aiming to help children take their first steps in programming. It’s a collection of exercises – or “coding puzzles” – that teach kids about functions, subroutines and conditional logic, before letting them loose on making their own games. Fun and inventive.Bamboo Paper (Free)Bamboo Paper is the work of Wacom, and is the Android equivalent of popular iPad app Paper: a collection of virtual notebooks to scribble, take notes, sketch out ideas and then share the results digitally with your other computers, colleagues and/or friends as required. And Wacom, naturally, is happy to sell you a stylus to use with it.Madefire Motion Books &amp; Comics (Free + IAP)There’s a lot of work going on around digital comics, with Madefire one of the most interesting companies involved. Now its app is available on Android, selling in-app comics from publishers including DC Comics, IDW and Dark Horse. The famous brands may attract you, but it’s the deeper indie fare that will keep you coming back.CBeebies Storytime (Free)This is the BBC’s second official app for its CBeebies pre-school TV channel, and while the first (Playtime) focused on games, this is all about stories. Six stories, in fact, each based on a different show, with voice narration and light interactivity geared towards engaging children in reading.Facetune (£1.99)Isn’t it a bit vain to buy an app specifically to edit your selfie photos before sharing them with the world? Well, modern mobile devices have made plenty of us vain, so the appeal of Facetune isn’t hard to see: an app that offers simple tools to make your portrait photos look just so.ChoreMonster (Free)Finding it challenging to get your children to help out with household chores during the summer holidays? ChoreMonster may help: it’s an app that lets you set rewards for children helping around the house, then tick off the tasks – all through a friendly, easy-to-understand monstery interface.Digify - Share Files Privately (Free)Digify describes itself as “like an automatic NDA” – a way to share files with friends and colleagues on a read-only basis, with the ability to make them self-destruct whenever you like, Snapchat-style. It also works with cloud storage service Dropbox, if that’s where you keep the files you want to share.Atlas Web Browser (Free)There are plenty of web browsers to choose from on Android if you don’t like your device’s default option. The latest contender is Atlas, released as a beta with the promise of ad-blocking, toggling between desktop and mobile versions of sites, and its status as one of the first Android apps using Google’s new Material design guidelines.NPR One (Free)This app comes from National Public Radio (NPR) in the US: a new app for finding news and stories based on your preferences. The idea being that you listen to a daily feed of audio reports, tuning the topics to your liking, while sharing the stories you like with friends via social networks.YoWindow Weather (£0.52)YoWindow is a neat twist on the crowded weather apps genre, presenting you with a scene that reflects the weather in your location, then letting you swipe to look ahead in the current day and week. A simple, good-looking interface for some complex data.Thomas Was Alone for Android.GAMESThomas Was Alone (£3.59)Already a hit on browsers, PCs, PS3 / PS Vita and iOS, Thomas Was Alone is now available on Android too. Describing it as a platform game where you play a rectangle called Thomas doesn’t make it sound great, but it most assuredly is great: a proper script and characters, and sublime puzzling.Modern Combat 5: Blackout (£4.99)Gameloft’s Modern Combat series is mobile’s answer to Call of Duty: as much military first-person shooting as you can handle, with squad-based action, and a choice of solo or multiplayer online modes. It looks very good, with controls that work on the touchscreen – still not a given for this genre – and plenty of depth.Broken Sword 5: Episode 2 (£3.99)If you haven’t yet played the first episode of Broken Sword 5, do that now: it’s brilliant. A classic adventure game made for modern mobile devices, with well-planned puzzles and an equally well-crafted story. And now there’s a second episode which continues that story. Gripping.Blood Bowl (£2.99)I went through the Blood Bowl craze as a teenager, just after Dungeons &amp; Dragons and just before Championship Manager, as I recall. Playing this all-new mobile game brought back plenty of memories. If you’re new to it, Blood Bowl is a turn-based virtual sport: essentially American football with more elves, dwarves and monsters. Oh, and on-field deaths. The game does a good job of capturing its appeal.Traps n’ Gemstones (£2.99)This may be the slow-burning sleeper hit of the week, judging by early reactions from people playing it. Made by Donut Games, it’s a platform-adventure that has you exploring pyramids in Egypt, recovering relics and fending off enemies. The kind of game where you start playing for a few minutes, and look up half an hour later.The Inner World (£3.49)It’s a good week for adventure games: this is another Android title inspired by the heyday of PC point’n’click adventures. It was excellent on iOS, and looks to have made the transition to Android perfectly. The graphics have a style all their own, and there’s plenty of humour mixed in with the exploration and puzzle-solving.Moshling Rescue! (Free + IAP)This app comes from Mind Candy, maker of Moshi Monsters, but parents would be advised not to let their children play this new Candy Crush-style spin-off game. It’s a match-three puzzle game with in-app purchases that’s aimed at adults rather than kids.Batman Arkham Origins (Free + IAP)KAPOW! THWAPP! VRONK! There’s an amazing beat ‘em up to be made out of thefight words used in the original Batman TV show. This game, however, is based on the grittier modern Batman: a chunky brawler where you battle an array of thugs, earning (or buying) in-app currency to unlock new Batsuits as you go. One for fans.QuizTix: Video Games (Free + IAP)There’s been a boom in massively-multiplayer mobile trivia games in recent times: QuizUp being the most prominent. The QuizTix games have been focusing on individual themes: football, films, pop music and now games. You answer questions on gaming history, competing against friends.The Great Prank War (£1.76)Finally, a game from Cartoon Network for its Regular Show series: a tower defence game starring Mordecai, Rigby, Muscle Man and other characters from the show. The twist: you can go off sacking enemy towers, rather than just building your own to decimate their armies. Practical jokes are the theme, too: eggs, glue and whoopie cushions all make appearances.Those are our picks, but what have you been enjoying on Android this week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section.•40 best Android games of 2014 (so far)
France has submitted more “right to be forgotten“ removal requests than any other European nation, Google revealedin a 13-page response to European data regulators.About 17,500 individual requests involving around 58,000 URLs were received from France, with Germany second with 16,500 requests. The UK’s 12,000 requests placed it third, with Spain, Italy and the Netherlands following with 8,000, 7,500 and 5,500 requests respectively.The data was made public in Google’s lengthy response to questions raised by the EU’s Article 29 working party, after it was hauled in byEurope’s data protection authorities in July.Article 29, the collective working party Europe major data regulators, left Google, Microsoft and Yahoo a 26-point questionnaire demanding answers after Europe’s displeasure with the current handling of “right to be forgotten” requests.Around 53% removedGoogle has removed about 53% of URLs requested, with more information requested for around 15% of URLs. Around 32% of requests have been denied.The requests only affect European searches, which has led Google and others to only remove search results from their European domains, such as google.co.uk, google.fr or google.de. Requests from Germany, for instance, will only be removed from searches made through the google.de site.Google says that fewer than 5% of European users use its US domain google.com, of which it suggests travellers from the US make up a significant portion.The removals only affect web and image search, as well as Google News. It is unknown whether removals affect video searches.‘Ensures transparency and makes corrections possible’Regulators have shown particular displeasure over Google’s notification of publishers of link removals from its search results.Peter Fleischer, Google’s Global Privacy Counsel, defended the practice saying that it was an important part of the balancing act between the rights of citizens and information being in the public interest, as well as catching false claims.“The notice to webmasters both ensures transparency and makes corrections possible when a removal proves to be a mistake,” Fleischersaid in the letter. “We have received information from webmasters that has caused us to re-evaluate removals and reinstate search results.”Google does not yet have any formal way for publishers to respond to the removal notices.“In many cases, we lack the larger factual context for a request, without which it is difficult to balance the competing interests,” Fleischer explained.People conveniently forget to include current information that may affect a removal request, like a recent conviction as an adult when requesting the removal of links to news about juvenile convictions.Google is beholden to the accuracy of the information that the requester submits in many cases, making decisions over some nuanced removals difficult.‘Fifty per cent of removal requests originated with competitors targeting each others’ sites’Fleischer explained that abuse of removals procedures is already occurring through the right to be forgotten ruling, saying that some professional journalists have asked Google to remove articles that they wrote for a publication that they no longer work for.“We have seen see many cases of business competitors trying to abuse removals processes to reduce each others’ web presence,” he said. “We have also seen examples of data subjects who indiscriminately submit many URLs that are displayed as search results for their name, even though some URLs are actually about another person with the same name.”“Abuse of such processes is a well-documented phenomenon – one academic study based on Google’s published information about copyright-based removals estimated that more than 50% of removal requests originated with competitors targeting each others’ sites for removal from search results,” said Fleischer.Google also clarified how it goes about tackling removal requests, insisting that each submission had to be dealt with on a case-by-case basis and where automation is not possible.“Decisions about these removals is made by people. We have many people working full time on the process, and ensuring enough resources are available for the processing of requests required a significant hiring effort.”‘Still building out the serving technology’Google’s notification to users of the fact that links have been removed from specific search results has also irked regulators.Fleischer clarified that Google places an alert on all searches that involve a name of a person. The alert states that search results have been modified – suggesting users should use google.com rather than a local European domain like google.co.uk or google.fr if they want untampered with results.“Most name queries are for famous people – people search disproportionately for celebrities and other public figures,” explained Fleischer. “We have made a pragmatic choice not to show this notice by default for known celebrities or public figures.”“We are still building out the serving technology for the notification so the notice may sometimes not appear where it should, and vice versa,” he said.‘Difficult to bring any real accountability’“It is welcome that the letter was made public, though it still leaves many questions remaining about the reasons for or against deleting links, as well as the process,” said Julia Powles, a researcher in law and technology at the University of Cambridge. “Until we have fine-grained statistics and a sufficient range of deidentified cases to be able to assess empirically, it is difficult to bring any real accountability.”“That the ECJ did not anticipate or build in any public accountability mechanism (beyond appeal to national authorities against a rejected decision) is one of the major flaws with the May ruling,” Powels explained.“We are pleased Google has responded and look forward to discussing it with our colleagues at the Article 29 Working Party,” said David Smith, deputy commissioner and director of data protection for the Information commissioner’s office. “The key thing now is to move toward publishing guidelines in the autumn explaining the general approach data protection authorities, including the ICO, will adopt when handling complaints about name-based search results.”“We are confident that the judgment can be implemented in a way that gives important rights to individuals whilst recognising the significance of public access to information via internet searches,” he said.House of Lords slams EU ruling saying right to be forgotten is ‘unworkable, unreasonable, and wrong’A manifesto for the future of the ‘right to be forgotten’ debate
Summer is upon us, and with it a deluge of rain, kids on public transport, andout of office(OOO) replies. An out-of-office email is something you assume would be easy to write – you know precisely its purpose and what it needs to say. But, as with colleagues’ leaving cards and appraisal feedback forms, it’s often difficult to find the exact words.It’s not unfathomable that you spend more time crafting the perfect OOO than you do packing a suitcase, tidying your desk, or on the 10-hour flight to some far-flung holiday destination.Here are some tips to help you write the perfect automated reply that won’t end up going viral. Please let us know your own thoughts on the OOO in the thread below.Specify the exact dates and timesof your absenceSounds obvious, but make sure you do set the exact times and dates; and make sure to get them right. You don’t want to go on sabbatical to find people have been firing emails to you like paper planes the whole time you’ve been sipping piña coladas and “finding yourself” on the set ofThe Beach.Likewise, it’s tempting to set the date you’ll be back lunching at your desk and avoiding difficult colleagues as “five minutes past NEVER” (for the lolz) but probably best not to.Leonardo Dicaprio in The Beach. Photograph: Allstar/Cinetext/20 CENTURY FOXKeep it shortThe recipient of your OOO is inconvenienced by you having the temerity to be on holiday. You just screwed them. They don’t care about reading anything you have tosay after the way you’ve behaved. Just direct them on to who is best to contact, not write aWar and Peace-length explainer.Warn your colleagues if you’re redirecting to themIf you’re going to write: “I’m away, but please contact Clare”, then do let Clare know that you’ve basically ruined her life for the next couple of weeks. Clare is going to be up to her eyes in emails, drowning in overlong signatures, and spammed to death. She needs to know the fate that will befall her.It’s also a nice idea if you’re going on holiday to bring a gift back for Clare, as a way of thanking her. Because who doesn’t love aquestionably culturally appropriatedsombrero?Understand that the word ‘urgent’ does not mean ‘urgent’People arevery self-absorbed and egotistical. If someone is emailing you, it’s because they want something. If they want it, then in their mind, it is urgent. Do not give people the opportunity to call or text you if it’s “urgent”, because they will do.They absolutely will do.Don’t try to be funny if you’re not funny“I’m on holiday! But let’s hope when I’m back I’ll be in a better mood than I was in that accounts meeting on Friday!!!”“I’m not in the office. Sorry that you’re getting an automated reply but if I was here you wouldn’t get anything!!!!!!!”Check for typos. Then check againYou don’t want to get back to the office to find you have sent out multiple emails reading, “I appreciate your bust”, instead of “I appreciate you’re busy”, as a friend of mine who once worked for an MP did.And, even if it’s not that extreme, it will still be embarrassing if everybody in your contact list cottons on to the fact you can’t spell “logistical”.You can give detail, but don’t brag, bore or overshareKeeping it short is the best idea. But if you really want to tell the world why you are away, then do not brag, bore or overshare.For instance, if you’re going to one of the world’s most beautiful islands for four weeks and not even paying for it because your in-laws are really rich and hahaha it’s going to be amazing and you intend to spend the whole time on a beach pretty much naked 90% of the time with a tiny umbrella in a lot of pastel-coloured alcohol, then don’t feel the need to share your fabulous good fortune.People also do not want to read about: dead family members, colonoscopies, dolphins you’ll be swimming with, the $$$ you’re raising for charity.Kind regards,Hannah.Pretty much all you need to know. Photograph: ImgurDo you use Out of Office emails? If so, what do you write? What are the worst examples you’ve ever seen and the best? Let us know your thoughts and comments in the thread below.
When you’re involved in video games, whether because you work with them, write about them or are a passionate fan, you end up gathering an arsenal of sorts: Words about why video games are good for people. This is not your fault, but rather a learned response to decades of games’ scapegoating as the cause of all modern moral panic. You always feel like you have to defend games even before an argument has been levied.You learn to talk about how playing games can be a good outlet for stress, a pleasing theoretical space for you to experiment with identity and consequences, or a cutting-edge stage for you to do improvisational performance with other people. Those are all valid things to say.There is one of them that makes me feel a little bit disingenuous, though. It’s “games are social” and “they’re just another way to play with your friends”.“Social” is as big a thing in video games as it is anywhere else in tech and digital media. Social media, apps and games are supposed provide tech-enabled ways for us to increase our number of interactions with one another and our sense of community, in a world full of information overload and diminishing returns. Video games are, theoretically, just like your weekend kickball team or your Wednesday night book club.Multiplayer online games are supposed to be about the player first and foremost; there is, developers say, “emergent storytelling” derived from the experiences players have in game fictions that is richer and more meaningful than any linear narrative an author could design. Like that time you and your friends were doing a mission together and this happened and then that happened and it was so awesome and then supposedly you’re still talking about it years later. That kind of thing.On a practical level, though, “social” is a business model. It means content engineered to be “liked” or shared. It means fundamentally we spend anxious time doing free labour for social infrastructures, providing our personal lives, disseminating links, making those platform-holders wealthy with our exhibitionism and interaction. When it comes to games, it’s increasingly on the player to create the meaning in their experience.And passionate players provide unpaid labor to games development, too: games are being released in beta and updated in public, so that the end product will better meet their needs. Thus the eager frontline beta testers mitigate the expensive risk of developing a commercial tech product, just through the fuel of their social behavior.In science fiction and fantasy media, virtual realms have long been portrayed as spaces of limitless possibility, where people can be pure versions of themselves, free of the constraints of the real world, and where their dearest urges can be safely expressed and ratified. But it just doesn’t shake down like that in modern games, where people would much rather use an established vocabulary, would much rather emulate the constraints of the real.I watched a colleague of mine play through the beta of Bungie’s latest game, Destiny. It has all the beauty and heft of a massive, futuristic space opera, it has a gorgeous user interface, and it will be a high-end online game where friends can do missions together forever. It is a genius way to do business: create a game where the mode of participation is endless investment. As Destiny is a cutting-edge product you feel almost peer-pressured to participate.It is social in that business sense: you must collaborate with and keep up with your friends, ensure that your statistics and equipment – your fitness for competition – are ever increasing. You participate excitedly in this capitalistic metaphor.Yet are people really playing “together”? I sat by while my friend and his friend chased their avatars around a surreal galactic arena, co-ordinating themselves with no small amount of frustration over a headset. Their allies, useless strangers with garbled character sets for names, trooped around in the background, mucking things up. My friends had found their teammates in a weird sort of central plaza area where fellow players performed sinuous dance animations at each other, their avatars mashing together in a frustrated urge for connection.I had the distinct thought that any sort of social behavior, “emergent” or otherwise, was occurring in spite of the impressive infrastructure, not thanks to it. The writer Jenn Frank, an avid player of video games, hasanalysedthe complicated resentment she felt toward Destiny, a game world that is always on, that has no “pause” feature, where some stranger is always counting on you to some extent. She disliked seeing her fiance not quite able to disengage when real life came calling. Though the couple shared video games together as a hobby, this particular massive “social” universe showed its potential to create a wedge.I believe in the potential for games to create incredible collaborative environments for play. But let’s think about what a “social” play experience would look like if it served us, the users, and not the platform, whose only real desire is to have us use it, to have us serve and propagate it, to lend hours of our time to its cold lunar ecosystem.
The BBC has launched a second app for its CBeebies children’s TV channel, following 3m downloads of theCBeebies Playtimeapp it released in 2013.The new app, CBeebies Storytime, is a collection of stories based on shows including Old Jack’s Boat, Show Me Show Me, Something Special, Grandpa in my Pocket, Octonauts and Charlie and Lola.Whereas the Playtime app was a collection of mini-games, the emphasis in Storytime is on reading, with each story delivered using a mixture of text, voice narration and interactivity, as well as comprehension questions at the end.The free app is available forAndroid,iPhone and iPaddevices, although judging by the BBC’s strategy with the previous app, a Windows Phone version may follow in the future.“We’re hoping to create a general interest in reading and storybooks,” Lizzie Leadbeater, senior content producer from CBeebies Interactive, told The Guardian.“We want children to engage in reading all sorts of books and stories, so we’re using the devices’ features to make reading really engaging and fun, and hopefully compete with games as something they want to be spending time with.”CBeebies presenters Alex Winters, Andy Day and Katy Ashworth provide voice narration for the new app, while Leadbeater added that external producers have been supportive of the launch, even when they have their own apps already available.The app may run into familiar scrutiny for the BBC about its impact on the wider market: for example, whether a free CBeebies app will draw parents away from spending money on other digital storytelling apps from British companies likeNosy CrowandMe Books.Alternatively, with its limited selection of stories – six at launch, although more are likely to follow – CBeebies Storytime might encourage parents to explore some of those other apps, if their children have enjoyed it.“We’ve worked with an educational consultant on providing some really nice, fun, light tips for parents within the app to help engage children in reading,” said Leadbeater.“That includes being a good reading role-model, having fun with stories, and making time to talk to children about the stories you read together.”•25 best apps to keep kids entertained this summer
Until April, I worked at Tech City UK building new partnerships for the government within the tech sector, and helping to grow the east London tech cluster. It was fantastic to see the energy and growth emerging in this new wave of UK tech, especially given the country’s legacy in this space.Working with startups and trying to understand how to help them grow, it became apparent that poor infrastructure was stifling their creativity and growth. There was no lack of ideas, or ability to raise money.But accessing good broadband was a constant complaint, and, for some time, there was no access to fibre services at all. Several of the most promising companies listed inTech City’s Future Fiftylist struggled with the time it took to get new lines installed or existing lines transferred, and even with our ability to speak directly to the internet service providers (ISPs) we found it very difficult to help make this any quicker.A typical wait for a domestic, consumer broadband connection is a maximum of about three weeks. Moving a broadband line to a new address can take as long, and even after giving fair notice of moving dates, which means companies can be without a valid connection in their new premises for several months after they have moved in.BT provides the infrastructure for broadband resellers, and it quotes very quick installation times once the order gets to them. The problem appears to be the red tape between BT and the resellers. For small businesses these can be damaging delays as resellers negotiate with landlords to get access for installation. But there doesn’t seem to be any template or established process, meaning each case is dealt with individually and can take months to resolve.In my last day at Tech City, we gathered some key figures from the ISP community to raise this subject yet again. ISPs were keen to stress that their own part of the process is being delivered to the best of their ability and within their own targets, and also say that the UK’s overall coverage is comparable with the most advanced countries in the world.What we need is for Ofcom to look at the complete ecosystem from ordering to delivery and moving lines, both for consumer and business lines. Broadband needs to be installed along with other basic infrastructure - water and electricity - and not an afterthought.£3,000 voucher scheme is a money-maker for BTA new superfast broadband voucher scheme offers startups £3,000 to help with installation costs - an idea initiated after a senior MP visited Singapore, which has unrivalled speeds and access nationwide.The aim was to help drive take-up, yet the voucher can only be redeemed against the set-up costs for a business broadband package. That often means a leased line contract with sizeable ongoing costs that can outweigh the setup fees.If an SME is to commit to this package it needs a business plan that justifies these ongoing costs, which means many small firms will chose cheaper consumer lines. The voucher is not encouraging new connections, but discounting existing connections. In the City of London – one of the boroughs to launch the scheme – there was almost zero uptake when it launched.The scheme is being marketed heavily by the government, which is trying to push SMEs from consumer lines to more expensive business lines, in effect putting more dollars into BT’s pockets. I don’t believe that was the original intention.BT could argue that there are many other companies in this market and they should share the burden of solving this problem. Yet BT is still biggest player, and still owns and maintain much of the copper below the streets. It is also the UK’s oldest telecoms company and should be leading this discussion.Not just a business broadband issueNick D’Aloisio sold his business to Yahoo in 2013 for $30m. Nick started learning how to build apps at the age of 12, was 15 when he took his first investment and just 17 when he sold Summly, his company. He did the majority of the work from his home, and not an office.The government is trying to support the growth of the UK technology industry and encourage more people with ideas to make them a reality. The inspiration that leads to building a tech business comes from unrivalled access to the internet which provides everyone with a clear route to learning, research and facilities like cloud computing.We should stop investing in voucher schemes and concentrate on solving the complex issues around landlords, access and installation - not just for businesses, but for consumers too. If the UK wants to be the most attractive place in the world to setup a technology business then it should be the best in the world for broadband speeds, access and service.Pasa Mustafa was director of strategic partnerships at Tech City from January 2013 to April 2014. He is now chief strategy officer at Yonder and Beyond
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamArmenia: Citizens urged to write Wikipedia entry each - BBC NewsThe national campaign - One Armenian, One Article - aims to raise the number and quality of articles in the Armenian language and promote the culture, an ad on EU Armenia TV says. It could even be competing with Georgia and Azerbaijan in the Wikipedia stakes.Maybe we need something like this for the coverage of notable female figures from science and history? One man, one woman. Ok, the slogan needs work.HTC’s profit up, but no sign of recovery just yet &gt;&gt;&gt; CNETThe Taiwan-based mobile device maker on Thursday reported (PDF) revenue of NT$65.1 billion ($2.2 billion), down from the NT$70.7 billion it generated during the same period last year. While that was a disappointment, the company was able to boost its profit to NT$2.3 billion ($76.5 million) after taxes.Lower revenue, higher profit. A leaner HTC we have on our hands, but is that enough to keep it on the straight and narrow?Dark net drugs adverts ‘double in less than a year’ - BBC NewsThe number of listings offering illegal drugs for sale on the “dark net” appears to have more than doubled in less than a year, BBC News has learned. The US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) closed down the original online illegal drug market, Silk Road, in 2013. But new figures suggest the trade has actually increased since then. And other research indicates one in four British drug users has accessed hidden websites.Close one down, a dozen spring up in its place. Where have we heard that one before?Microsoft and pals applaud UK’s ‘Google Review’ copyright move &gt;&gt;&gt; The RegisterThe rest of Europe should follow the UK’s example and get rid of copyright levies, says an EU trade group representing Microsoft, Apple, Samsung and thousands of others.Bashing a large competitor, whatever next.Martha Stewart: Why I love my drone &gt;&gt;&gt; TIMELast year, while celebrating my birthday in Maine, I was given a drone fitted with a high-definition camera. After a quick introduction to the mechanics of operating the contraption and a few words about its idiosyncrasies, I loaded the appropriate app on my iPad and went down to the beach.Well that was unexpected.Bet you didn’t notice this tiny but revealing Facebook design change &gt;&gt;&gt; QuartzFacebook just made a barely perceptible change to its website. The notification icon at the top of its navigation bar is an image of a small globe, which used to show North and South America, no matter where you logged in from. Americans (and people looking at the iPhone app) still get that view, but now users in Asia, Africa, and Europe see an icon of the Eastern Hemisphere.Cute.8 reasons that Bitcoiners are the worst possible advert for Bitcoin &gt;&gt;&gt; Us Vs Th3mBitcoins: they get knocked down, then they get up again, but you’re never going to keep them down! Well, at least according to their insanely passionate fanbase (probably including members of Chumbawumba, let’s face it), who are convinced we should all give up boring old pounds and dollars, and use their exciting new cyber-money instead.Bitcoin fans: you aren’t helpingYou can followGuardian Technology’s linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
