If you have a task to do, find someone to share the work and you get the job done in half the time. That's the idea behind Distributed.net, a group that coordinates spare computer processor power from across the Internet to solve huge mathematical tasks which otherwise would take days, weeks, and in some cases, years.The tasks range from research projects to find large prime numbers, to cracking coded messages, to analysing radio waves emanating from space in the hopes of finding signals from alien civilisations. Distributed.net offers links to download a small program which sits on volunteers' computers.The program then downloads tiny chunks of the problem from the distributed.net site and works on that information in the background when the computer is on, but not being used.Anyone can help, whether you have a powerful workstation in the office or a small PC at home. Find out more about past, present and future distributed network projects and get the software at theirwebsite.You can read about their most recent success, when last week Distributed.net joined forces with the home-made supercomputer specially-built by the Electronic Frontier Foundation, www.eff.org. They cracked an encoded message as part of a competition to underline the weakness of the standard, US-Government approved algorithm used in some encryption programs. More than halving the previous record, they broke the code in under 23 hours (see page 9 for more on the conference).If you're one of those people who wonders if there's any more to Net reading than yet more news headlines, weather reports and cyber-horoscopes, try theArts and Letters Dailyand for science and technology lovers, the sister Website,SciTech Daily Review.Each day the two sites offer more than a hundred links to meaty writing on the Web — essays, editorials, books reviews, interviews and more.
Interested in getting a refund for not using the operating system pre-installed on your new computer? Then don't open the Windows. Apparently a little known clause in the End User License Agreement (aka EULA) for Microsoft's Windows notes that computer purchasers who refuse to agree to the agreement and never use Windows on the machine can request a refund from the PC manufacturer. A feisty bunch of users of (but of course) Linux — the inexpensive, and often free, renegade operating system created by Finn and geek iconLinus Torvalds— are organising a mass Refund Day on February 15, when they hope thousands will demand their money back from PC makers. <"www.netcraft. com.au/geoffrey/toshiba.html"target="_new">.Tenacityhas already bagged one Australian user AU$110.And you thought that in space, no one can hear you scream. Then just try listening to these recordings of William Shatner — that's Captain James T Kirk to you — singing Mr Tambourine Man, Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds, and It Was A Very Good Year (as in, "When I was 17"). All these and more are there at The Captain &lt;"www.loskene.com/singalong/
kirk.html"target="_new"&gt;James T Kirk Singalong Site, And wait, there's more! Hear Scotty, Lieutenant Uhura, Data and Spock belt 'em out, too. It's singing, Jim, but not as we know it. Captain Picard, however, limits himself to some tasteful storytelling.It looks kind of like a dentist's chair for the crew of the Starship Enterprise, but this offers oh-so-much-more value for your Federation sponduliks. Yes, it's theAura module, viewable at This cubicle for a new millennium addresses those annoying employee complaints about computer use-related discomforts "by giving workers electronic control over virtually every aspect of their individual work environments such as air flow, seating, lighting, and even sight lines". Users get a "microchip on a keychain" which will adjust any Aura unit in the office to their own, personal specifications. An Aura base unit can be yours for a mere $5,500 for the base unit. Just contact Canada's Poetic Technologies.Conduit, to be found at, is a Texan festival that "celebrates the convergence of various media and computing technologies by offering a showcase of cutting edge digital technology from around the world". In the past, along with discussion panels, screenings, parties and a games arcade, Conduit has featured shorts, animations, digital features, and music videos.This year's festival, to be held on March 14-15 in Austin, will spotlight computer games. If you've produced game-related "interesting high caliber animation done as cinematic interstitials, trailers, demos, tests or personal projects", or if you've done animated shorts or features, the organisers want to hear from you.Ever wondered where the rich and famous surf? OK, maybe they're not all rich or famous, but celebrities of various genres describe their browser bookmarks for their favourite sites at Encyclopedia Brittanica'seBlast site, Who'd have guessed that musician Marshall Crenshaw loves Camille Paglia's social commentary, or that legal thriller writer Scott Turow could be so unbelievably boring that he'd admit to buying seven used golfballs online and to regularly looking at his wife's homepage.
As the Web takes over the online world (and e-commerce takes over the Web), older online cultures have become the place to go for a reminder of the alternative possibilities the Net once seemed to offer. Take MUDs, aka Multi-User Dungeons (or Dimensions), for instance.Five years ago, these 
collaborative fantasy games — based on text on screen rather than images — were all the rage. Players from round the world logged onto remote computers offering different MUDs and typed up whole worlds together. Some were close to the role-playing fantasy games of Dungeons And Dragons. Others were based on famous works of fantasy fiction — Tolkien or Terry Pratchett, say — and let users improvise and immerse themselves in their favourite worlds. Others, known as TinyMUDs or MOOs (for MUD Object Oriented), were more social.Players tried to build 
communities, pondered 
politics, donned digital drag and generally messed around with their identities and had "Net sex" with each other. And the worlds continued to exist and unfold even when players went offline.Though they relied on text, MUDs proved to be incredibly immersive, much more so than the virtual reality goggles and gloves also being hyped at the time. Players were sucked into the worlds they helped to write. They spent hours in their favourite MUDs, sparking the first panic about Net addiction. In 1994, according to some surveys, MUDs accounted for 10 per cent of all traffic on the Net.Then the Web took off, and MUDs drifted off the mainstream cultural radar screen. But though they faded from view, they continued to thrive. "If you log onto the MUD Connector &#91;a Web site that lists active MUDs atmudconnect, you will see a list of well over a thousand MUDs, all of which are up and running right now," says Richard Bartle. It was Bartle who, with Roy Trubshaw, created the first MUD, at the end of the 1970s, when both were students at the University of Essex.Now this rather old fashioned area of the Net is the subject of a new book that feels more 
cutting edge than any of the recent slew of books on the online business. Julian Dibbell's My Tiny Life (Fourth Estate, £16.99), which 
documents a spell of intense "MUDding" by the author, is a clever mix of reporting and theory. Dibbell is the writer for The Village Voice, the New York alternative weekly, who wrote the most famous journalistic story about MUDs, A Rape in Cyberspace. The tale described what happened on LambdaMOO, a particularly bohemian MUD, when one player, Mr Bungle, used some sneaky programming to take control of the personae of two other players and "rape" them.In the process of deciding how to punish Bungle, the LambdaMOO community attained a new kind of political self-consciousness about itself. Dibbell himself became so fascinated by the story that, after it was published, he set up home on LambdaMOO and, for three months in 1994, spent a sizeable chunk of his time logged on.My Tiny Life relates the experiences he had during that time, using them as the basis for a fascinating and beautifully written investigation of the slippery realities of the "virtual life". While pointing out that the boundaries between the real world and the virtual one are never as clear cut as some would like, Dibbell does a brilliant job of demolishing some well established Net myths. For example, he's particularly good at describing the way Net sex really works, managing to avoid both sensationalism and cheap gags.Dibbell doesn't spend that much time in LambdaMOO anymore. But what he experienced there continues to inform his writing on technology in general. "Almost every sort of social and technological phenomenon I encountered in there has been reproduced elsewhere on the Net," he says. "Take this tension in the MOO between the communitarian types who wanted every decision to be a matter of consensus and the techno-libertarians who said the way to solve the problem is just to redesign the architecture. That is something that recurs all over the Net, for example with current discussions of how to deal with spam."Dibbell says he hopes his book shows that there is more to the Net than e-commerce. "This metaphor of the Net as a virtual shopping mall is really crowding out the older one of it being a virtual community. I would love for people to read my book and say, the 
possibilities for community are so much richer and stranger and livelier than what's being talked about."According to Dibbell, Pavel Curtis, the programmer from Xerox PARC who originally started up LambdaMOO, did at one point think that MOOs and MUDs might turn into some sort of general interface for a global network. But once the Web took off, he ditched that idea and began to realise that MUDs weren't going to develop into anything else. Rather like books, they were a stable technology, perfect at delivering a particular kind of experience.However, some people are trying to move the MUD idea forward. Bartle and Trubshaw now run their own company,MUSEat, and spend their time coding new MUDs, writing papers on the subject and doing consultancy for other companies in the area. Bartle says that MUDs could be used by the business world as role-playing training environments. He also says, rather cryptically, that MUDs could be a useful tool for social engineering.However, MUSE's current big project is a pure game, MUD2 — a vast fantasy world that has been running in some form for more than 10 years, and is one of the more popular options on Wireplay, British Telecom's online gaming service. (The game can also be accessed via theWeb, MUDs seem to be behind the service's current stress on "persistent world" games, which use images but continue to exist and unfold even when a player is not online. The old text-based games have been an influence, acknowledges Colin Duffy, who set up Wireplay and now is in charge of BT's mass market Internet services. MUDs embody the "holy grail of online gaming," he says. "They've got a sense of 
community and intelligent gameplay — because people are playing against other 
people and not AI routines."The computer games world in general has long tried to find a way to match the feeling of immersion players get from a good MUD. Some of the big online games — for example,Origin's Ultima Online— seem to owe something to Bartle and Trubshaw's creation. "The lessons learned about virtual communities on the Internet that were learned in MUDs have only just begun to be fully appreciated," says Raph Coster, Ultima Online's designer. "In terms of gaming per se, every single major online persistent world 
venture has teams that came from MUD backgrounds."There is a big difference of course between MUDs and Ultima Online. The latter is a graphic MUD. Players log on to a visual world. That can cause problems, says Bartle. "You can't represent anything you can't draw a picture of. In a MUD, I can say, there's a foul smell of decaying flesh emanating from the east. You can't do that in an online 3-D game. There's also no way of building any narrative tension." In a MUD, you can do that by writing ever shorter sentences, he continues. Then when the danger is passed, your prose can get looser and more relaxed. "You can't do that in a game like Ultima because you don't have that kind of access to people's minds. All you're doing is communicating with their eyeballs."The difficult thing, says Bartle, is overcoming prejudices and getting people to realise how accessible and powerful interactive text can be. With their stress on linguistic ability and communication, MUDs ought to appeal to female 
players, and yet they have a masculine aura, which puts many women off. Bartle is 
trying to write a MUD that will draw in women players. It's set on a Caribbean Island, in a hotel that doubles as a kind of Betty Ford clinic for recovering shopaholicsWhile he develops what he describes as this "postmodern MUD", Bartle is continuing to add to MUD2, a game which, though well over a decade old, shows no sign of coming to an end. He puts its longevity down to its low-tech nature, something that, he suggests, will ensure MUDs' continuing survival even as flashier parts of the Web crash and burn."Part of the reason people are still playing MUDs — and they've been playing them for 10 to 15 years, sometimes the same game, which you can't really say of any other online game — is because they're text. That endures far better than graphics. If I pull a game off my shelf which was made in 1990, it looks so crocky now. But text does last, so long as you've got the imagination."• Jim McClellan wrote the Guardian Guide to the Internet, published this month by 4th Estate at £6.99 and available from all good bookshops or by calling The Guardian Shop on 01483 20 44 55 (p&amp;p free)
The National Health Service is failing to address security and privacy concerns as it sets about compiling the largest electronic database of personal information ever seen in the UK, says a study due to be published next week. Computer records, coded with each patient's unique NHS number and accessible via a UK-wide network, NHSNet, will be linked to patients' names by a new tracking system, the NHS Strategic Tracing Service, to be developed by Sema, an IT company under contract to the NHS, over the next six months.Plans to protect privacy will not work, says Ross Anderson, lecturer in computer security at Cambridge University and editor of the critical study, Safety And Privacy in Clinical Systems. The proposed use of smart cards to access the system and firewalls between NHSNet and the Internet will be inadequate because of the large number of health staff involved. Many people will be motivated to abuse the system, he adds, because it will be the first ever up-to-date register of every UK resident."Other databases such as tax, national insurance and driver and vehicle licensing capture only some of the population, omitting children and some adults, and are very out of date in many cases. So the police and security services will demand access &#91;to the NHS system&#93;, and then the private detective community will get in, whether by using old contacts in the police or bribing a nurse. This will open the system up to everyone prepared to pay: jealous husbands wanting to find runaway wives, gangsters wanting to find runaway witnesses."Meredith Carter, Director of the Health Issues Centre in Melbourne, Australia, and one of the study's contributors, says: "The major users of the public hospital system are people on low incomes, consistent with their generally poorer health. Projects tracking use of public health services could build up significant dossiers on those people. This also applies generally to people with chronic illnesses, including mental health problems. People in higher income brackets are less likely to need health care and less likely to use public services and are therefore less likely to be subject to this surveillance."Carter says the solution is to strengthen the independent determination of what use of data is in the public interest, which may mean enhancing data protection law. Patients should have more control of the flow of information about themselves.She says the stakes are high, because it is vital for public health that individuals are confident their privacy will be respected. "If this confidence is lacking, the danger is that individuals may not seek treatment for conditions which may then put others at risk."Another solution, says the study, may lie in extrapolating to a national scale a new model for controlling access to patient data being tested at Conquest Hospital in Hastings, East Sussex. The model sets rules for access and monitors all transactions; for instance, nurses can see only records of patients who have been in their care in the past 90 days. It also sets out which types of clinician can access which types of data, with notes divided into security-coded sections. An override system allows clinicians to access data 
outside the normal rules, but 
a clear audit trail is created.The NHS Executive says security for the tracking system will follow two basic principles of the Hastings trial: access will occur only where there is a clear need, and all transactions will be strictly monitored. A full risk assessment is being carried out, says the executive, and security procedures will be reviewed at least annually.The study accepts that the efficient exchange of information could save lives. But what is needed is a balanced approach, says Chris Dowd, lecturer in multimedia and distance learning at the University of Sheffield and executive editor of the study. "There is a potential to cause harm at both ends of the scale, either by having inadequate safeguards for ensuring security or by being overzealous."It can be extremely difficult to know precisely what nurses will need to know, he says, because they care for the patient "holistically, 24 hours a day". And if a person has an accident far from home, they want a medic to be able to access their notes immediately.Dowd says that the key is ensuring clinicians take systems security seriously.10 reasons to steal your data• 1: Insurance companies may want to know how big a risk you are.• 2: Extremist anti-
abortionists may want to know who has terminated a pregnancy.• 3: Blackmailers could access health records of public figures.• 4: Information could be used to make obscene phone calls, or even to identify subjects for 
stalking or attacks.• 5: Lawyers may want 
to contact certain 
kinds of patient to 
suggest litigation.• 6: Government 
departments may be 
keen to access the data to check their own. records.• 7: Companies selling drugs and medical appliances could try to market directly to relevant people.• 8: Funeral parlours may try to find out who is 
seriously ill.• 9: Banks may try to access records of people to whom they have lent money.• 10: Firms may try to obtain records of prospective employees.Safety And Privacy In 
Clinical Systems, £8.75 from Sheffield Academic Press 
(Tel: 0114 255 4433)
Dr Strangelove says it all: men and their madness. At the end of Kubrick's masterpiece about the Cold War, everybody's standing around the War Room contemplating the now certain annihilation of the planet, when Strangelove pipes up from his wheelchair. He says about 10,000 people could survive — underground — and for breeding purposes the ratio would have to be one man to 10 extremely nubile young women. The guys in the War Room are CHEERED by this thought! Annihilation might have something going for it after allIt seems to me we've wasted far too much time on men and their endless efforts to construct a "democracy". WHERE IS IT? They've had millions of years to do whatever they want and they've made a right mess of things. Women have been very patient. We've been really BIG about it. But enough's enough. Time to gather ourselves.The REVOLUTION is nigh!!! What we need is a fascist female state in which the trains run on time, children can safely walk the streets and coffee always comes with lots of frothy milk: a MATRIARCHY! And finally we've got the means of creating it: Viagra. Test tube babies and cloning are all very well, but THIS
is what we've been waiting for. Little blue pills will 
be men's doom and our 
liberation!
The funniest thing 
about Viagra is that men seem to think it's for THEM, and women seem oddly indifferent to it. Are we too polite, too downtrodden, 
to admit that this is our chance to TAKE OVER 
THE WORLD? Forget 
bra-burning, stomping around, yelling, or trying to be more like men. Useless, feeble attempts. With 
Viagra we can take power GRACEFULLY, even GRACIOUSLY — for, 
with Viagra women can RELAX.For millions of years men have had it all their way because they could WITHHOLD sex whenever they wanted to and we couldn't. Male genitalia and the accompanying ego are so collapsible women have spent whole lifetimes — whole millennia — just trying to inflate them. We doll ourselves up, cook and clean, work for PEANUTS, all to make men feel good. We don't even dare FART, think, talk, take over the world — in case it results directly or indirectly in impotence. Men are apparently so easily emasculated, almost every human endeavour has to be geared towards keeping their erectile tissue in working order. We don't even KNOW how much of our behaviour is based on encouraging male sexuality — because WE'VE NEVER HAD A DAY OFF!Viagra changes all that. We no longer have to listen to a thing they say, we don't have to listen to their lies, their criticisms, their ideas, their systems, their SOFTWARE. We no longer have to show forbearance about the way they've run (WRECKED) the world.It no longer matters how vulnerable, insecure, abused, redundant, exploited, ignored, unengaged, or REPULSED men may feel, we can still have sex whenever we want — which I think may prove to be ALL THE TIME. And because of this the whole bloody world is going to change.THIS is what our so-called civilisation's built on: men's ability to deprive women of sex (we don't even get to see erections in PORN films!). Not any more. Not if we CAGE them (nice cages if they're good). Every woman can keep a few (some might not want ANY, so the maths should work out).Of course men's civil rights will be protected: they will be allowed books, beer and TV.It occurs to me that they might very inconveniently try to fight for their liberty, using every weapon at their command (which would include every weapon on earth except frying pans). They would no doubt be willing to annihilate the entire planet in the name of FREEDOM. This would not be good!If only they could be gently PERSUADED of the value of a female totalitarian system — before they know what's hit 'em.© Lucy Ellmann 1999
DON'T say hacker when you mean script kiddy, insider or cyberterrorist, writes Karlin Lillington. This plea comes from Marc Rogers, a Canadian forensic psychology expert at the University of Manitoba, who has devised a whole new range of terms for people who break into computer systems.His problem with "hacker" is that it is as vague a term as "criminal". Just as police need to know if they are dealing with a burglar, forger or blackmailer, says Rogers, they need to know what sort of digital delinquent they are up against. So he has produced this system of classification:• Entry-level hackers are script kiddies, newbies and cyberpunks. They have little skill, use other hackers' programs, and cause malicious damage such as defacing Web sites;• Insiders and coders usually write the programs themselves and often mentor newbies and script kiddies;• Professionals, hacktivists and cyberterrorists are the highly-motivated elite, often former security experts from the former Eastern Bloc, and use state-of-the-art equipment.Last week Rogers, who has worked with the Winnipeg Police Department's computer crime unit, explained what he calls "the hacker continuum" to the crowd who think they know it best: the 5,000 delegates at the annual RSA Data Security Conference in San José, California.These are mostly the people trying to keep out the hackers who last year, according to the FBI, caused an estimated $286 million in problems in the US. But also there are hackers of one category or another, who, if you ask them, prefer the more dignified title of "security consultant".Rogers suggested the delegates should get to know and understand all the hacker types, because the hackers certainly spent much of their time analysing them. "They respect their targets. They know a lot about us," he said."Hacker" has had a number of meanings since it entered the language in the late 1950s to early 1960s. Originally an admiring name for creative programmers, by the 1970s it described "computer revolutionaries" — entrepreneurial types who ended up founding many of today's best-known computer companies.In the 1980s, it was used for people "actively involved in breaking copyright on computer games" by copying them and selling them. In the 1990s, says Rogers, the word most commonly means "criminals or cyberpunks".Although they imagine themselves techno-prodigies, hackers "are no longer the technical elite. They're motivated by greed, power, revenge, and malicious intent", says Rogers.In addition, hackers are socially inept geeks, not brave new revolutionaries. According to Rogers, most are white, middle-class males of 12 to 28 years of age, have limited social skills and perform poorly in school, but have good computer skills. Basically sad loners, he adds, hackers "crave membership" and tend to participate in online computer discussion groups. "That's how most of these people get caught.They brag about their attacks online."
Judging by the buzz at the RSA Data Security Conference last week, 1999 will be the year in which commercial pressures may resolve the politically-loaded question of who is allowed to encrypt (mathematically encode) information, and how invincible the programs used for this purpose can be.For years, the US government in particular, joined by allies such as France and Britain, has argued for restrictions in the use of so-called "strong", or public-key, encryption — computer programs which use complex mathematical "keys" to encode and decode data, making it nearly impossible to decode information kept in computers or sent over the Internet.In some cases (as in France), governments have refused to let their own citizens use the products; in others (America), strong encryption cannot be used, except in carefully defined situations, to encode information sent outside the nation's borders. Governments argue that criminals and terrorists will elude them if strong encryption is generally available.Encryption advocates retort that codes have nothing to do with chasing criminals who have always been caught using other methods. They argue that encryption is now a free speech, privacy and business issue.Until now, the increasingly acrimonious encryption debate has been a bit of technological esoterica ignored by most computer users. But, as the RSA conference's spectacular growth this past year attests — attendance rose from 3,000 in 1998 to just over 5,000 — there's a growing demand for encryption technologies. As more individuals and companies send data across the Net's insecure lines, they want that information protected."We've said that public-key cryptography is a solution in search of a problem, and 
e-commerce is that problem," said Jim Bidzos, the president of RSA, the company which sponsors the conference and holds the rights to some of the main algorithms used for encryption.Business pressure clearly succeeds where rights organisations make little headway. As news came in that France would allow its citizens to use "strong" encryption products, in a sudden turnaround announced last week by French prime minister Lionel Jospin, most delegates attributed the change to the lure of e-commerce revenue.Certainly, at RSA this was the year of PKI — public key infrastructure, the term for the overall network of products, users, and certification authorities which will verify the identity of encryption users. Last year PKI was still one of many possible security tools. This year it was being presented as the tool.But as some of the session presenters pointed out, encryption is really only one element of the overall systems security picture. "Strong encryption is often like steel doors on a grass hut," argued David Safford, of IBM's global security analysis lab. He said he wasn't aware of a single instance in which hackers had broken into a system by cracking strong encryption defenses.Instead, most hackers make use of weaknesses in computer system structure or in applications. "The idea that crypto is the solution to the problem is terribly misguided," noted Peter Neumann, author of Computer-Related Risks and moderator of the popular Risks Forum Internet discussion list. "In a system that's not reliable, that's not robust, cryptography is essentially useless."Encryption experts also argued all week long that US government-approved encryption now may be useless anyway. For years, the government has designated an IBM-developed algorithm known as DES, or data 
encryption standard, to 
be the allowable format for non-classified information. Critics have long suspected that the US secretly weakened DES to enable surveillance teams to crack messages 
easily.To underline the weakness of DES, RSA has sponsored contests with cash prizes for people who can successfully crack a message that has been encoded using the standard. The latest contest, launched during the conference, lasted less than one day when a team composed of privacy advocates the Electronic Frontier Foundation and a group 
called Distributed.net broke the code in less than 23 
hours.The search is underway this year for a tougher, new algorithm, which will be 
called AES, advanced encryption standard.KL"This key won't fit"PLANS by the British Government to regulate encryption came under fire when California-based computer manufacturer Sun Microsystems opened its plush £1.8 million customer centre in the City last week.Sun's corporate affairs manager John Tutcher complained about the proposals for "key escrow", which means giving the keys needed to decode messages to a licensed "trusted third party" or TTP. If the Government wants to read an encrypted message, it can apply to the TTP for the key without the sender being alerted.The ostensible aim is to prevent criminals hiding their crimes. Tutcher argues that the TTPs are "an obvious source of vulnerability". He says: "If hackers can get into the Pentagon, are TTPs more secure than that?" There's also the problem that some may have rival commercial interests: "For example, would we want our keys placed with IBM? No, we wouldn't."At best key escrow "penalises the good guys" without doing anything to stop the bad guys, because the bad guys aren't going to hand over their keys anyway, Tutcher says.Sun hopes to take its complaints to a higher level next week when Scott McNealy, its outspoken chief executive, is due to meet Stephen Byers, the new Secretary of State for Trade and Industry.The Government has an all-party Select Committee willing to listen. It held its first public hearing on Tuesday, and has scheduled more. Members are keen to consider &lt;a href="www.
parliament.uk/commons/selcom/t&amp;ipnt2a.htm"target="_new"&gt;submissionsfrom all concerned, including Online readers.There will be lobbying for the other side from the police, secret services, and Jack Straw's Home Office.
The National Criminal Intelligence Service (NCIS) has not appeared before the Select Committee, but the start of the hearings prompted it to hold a press conference on Tuesday. 
John Abbott, director general of NCIS, said police enquiries into paedophile, murder and terrorist cases had already been impeded by encryption. "We are not asking for copies of everybody's keys; nor are we asking for any new powers," he said.If the police can tap your phone they should be able to read your encrypted e-mail.If it adopts key escrow, Labour will be going against its own election manifesto, which said: "It is not necessary to criminalise a large section of the network-using public to control the activities of a very small minority of law-breakers."
Ross Anderson, a cryptography expert from the University of Cambridge Computer Laboratory, says: "The UK Government's so-called ‘secure electronic commerce' proposals are a crude attempt to make the UK private sector use an obsolete and badly designed key management system."But to make e-commerce work, British firms will have to use the same systems used by companies in the USA, France and Japan. The proposals are about as likely to work as the law requiring motor cars to be preceded by a man with a red flag." JSB
Are computers important?Yes. The tools we've created till now have largely extended our physical capacities — a hammer extends that power of our hands to shape things, a car or an aeroplane extends our power to move ourselves, a phone extends the range of our voice.The computer extends the ability of our mind to model the world and manipulate that model — which is the capacity that allowed us to create tools in the first place....for you?Yes. It used to be that what a writer did was type a bit and then stare out of the window a bit, type a bit, stare out of the window a bit.Networked computers make these two activities converge, because now the thing you type on and the window you stare out of are the same thing....for the world in general?To the extent that electricity, telephones, radio, television, medicine, telescopes, microscopes, books and magazines, banks, trains and boats and planes and cars are, yes.What about the Internet?Does it threaten or enhance individual freedom? The Internet is open communication. I believe that the Chinese government still sees it as a threat, but I'd be surprised if anybody else did.Do you use an Apple Mac or a PC or something different?A Macintosh. They're generally faster, easier to use, an actual pleasure to work with and don't have a Year 2000 problem.What do you use the machine for?Just about everything.Any particular favourite software?Most software isn't nearly good enough yet. When it's good enough we won't notice it anymore.Anything you'd like but can't have yet?Software I don't notice.Any favourite Web sites?There are Web sites I visit a lot, but I think a list of them would be as meaningful to anybody else as a list of the phone numbers I call the most often.Do you get into dialogues with strangers on the Net?Yes.Do you use your own name when surfing?Yes.Do you spend long at the terminal?Yes.Are you a "geek"?What is a geek and why does it have those scare quotes round it?On a desert island, would you prefer a human or a 
computer for company?Depends on the human, depends on the computer, depends on the connection.Professionally, what's taking up your time?A movie of The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, and questionnaires.• Compiled by Hamish Mackintosh
Science fiction stories where toasters talk to teapots may have come a step closer to reality this week: Sun finally launchedJini, a system for connecting computers and home appliances together. It's based on the Java computer language, of course: that's where the idea for Java came from in the first place...However, others have already tried to do the same thing, with little success. Indeed, several have joined theSalutation Consortiumto try to ensure that one firm's coffee pot can say "hello" to another's audio CD player. (Oddly, Sun's chief executive, Scott McNealy, said he'd never heard of the group, which lists Sun as a member.) Jini could also be useful outside the home, for people who are walking collections of gadgets connected wirelessly inPANs, or Personal Area Networks. Already got the mobile phone, pager, handheld computer, MiniDisk player and digital camera? Yes?Now you need atapeless recorderor digital voice recorder. Both Olympus and Panasonic launched models this week: Olympus, the D-100 (170g, £299.99); and Panasonic, the DR60 (46g, £89). The Olympus has IBM'sViaVoicespeech recognition software built in to convert your voice to text. We've come a long way since getting sound out was considered clever, as it was 15 years ago last Sunday when Apple's co-founder Steve Jobs took thefirst Apple Macintoshto the Boston Computer Society: it wowed them by saying "Hello, I'm glad to be out of that bag".
It's 1200h Pacific Standard Time and Web surfers up and down the US West from LA's Digital Coast, through Silicon Valley to Microsoft in Redmond, Washington state, are online, packing the Net with users.It's also 1800h GMT and UK surfers are home trying to access the same Web sites. You type in the address of a Web site you just heard about: Yahoo!After a long wait your computer says: "A connection with the server could not be established." What went wrong? Does the site exist? Did you make a mistake? Or is it just overloaded?When you type in an Web site name, for example www.yahoo.com, and hit ENTER, your computer performs a predefined set of steps: first it finds out where www.yahoo.com is, then it contacts the Web site's computer, called a Web server, then it asks for the home page, called /, and finally it shows you the page. A problem in any one step can lead to a problem for you.Consider finding the Web server. Your computer uses the Domain Name System, or DNS and asks the Internet to change the name www.yahoo.com into a numeric address it understands. In this case the address is 204.71.177.71. 
That's a simple operation, but suppose you typed in www.yahooo.com instead. Not knowing the difference, your computer asks the DNS for the address and discovers that it doesn't exist. And that leads to an error message.If you have Windows, a quick way to test if this is the problem is to use the ping command — a versatile little program used to test connectivity in the Net. That is, it is used to test if there's a connection between here (your computer) and there (some place you specify).If you go to the Start Menu, select Run and type "ping www.yahooo.com" you'll see the message: "Unknown host: www.yahooo.com". That means that the DNS couldn't find the computer you were looking for, which is a pretty good sign it doesn't exist.But suppose you type in Yahoo!'s address correctly, and the DNS sends back the numeric address. Next, your computer contacts the Web server and does a Masonic-sounding three-way hand- shake — an exchange of three messages that establishes an electronic link between them.But this stage can also fail, and often does if the machine is overloaded. To get a feeling for how loaded the Web server is, and also the intervening piece of the Internet, we can ping it (by selecting Run in the Start Menu, and typing "ping www.yahoo.com").The ping program sends four messages to the Web server and measures (and displays) the time for each message to make the trip there and back. If these times are long, say more that two seconds, or if you see the message "timed out", then you are experiencing congestion on either the Internet or the Web server you are trying to reach. Call back another time.If the handshake works, your browser asks for the home page using the HTTP or HyperText Transfer Protocol. This simple protocol has a command that is used over and over again: GET. The first HTTP message sent is GET / (or give me the home page).The Web server replies with the text on the page and your browser displays it. Immediately after it sends more requests to fill in each of the graphics, one GET per graphic. Finally the page is done, you click on a link and the process starts again.To read about the details of HTTP you should visit the WorldWide Web Consortium'sextensive Web site. HTTP has a variety of versions, version 1.1, described in RFC 2068 from theInternet Engineering Task Force'sWeb site, is widely used.RFC 2068 also details the error messages that you receive when the Web doesn't work correctly. Each error message is numbered: the one you are most likely to have encountered is 404, which indicates a problem with a page name or URL.The page name consists of three parts: the protocol, the Web site and the page itself. These three parts come together to form a Uniform Resource Locator or URL. URLs are the Web's version of addresses, they contain all the information needed to find a specific Web page.From the URL, your browser knows what to do (the protocol part), where to get it from (the Web site name), and what to ask for (the page name).Now suppose that after you type in a URL the message "File Not Found", or "404 Not Found", appears. This means that while the Internet and the Web server are working, the page you requested does not exist. Perhaps it's been deleted or you made a mistake while typing it in.This can happen a lot when you use a search engine service (such as www.altavista.com). AltaVista may have remembered a link that now goes nowhere. The 404 error tells you that the page is gone.And if nothing seems to be working and your browser is serving up the electronic equivalent of a Blankety Blank chequebook and pen: make sure you are connected to your ISP! That's probably the easiest and most embarrassing Web error of all.Just don't tell your friends.• John Graham-Cumming designs software to manage computer networks. This is the third in a series of articles about living with the Net
Patriotic Gore"Imagine waking up in a world where not a single child has ever heard the word 'chemotherapy'. Imagine how it would feel to visit the Smithsonian and see a radiation machine next to an iron lung — rusting away like a relic from the past. This project could make that day possible."Vice President Al Goreon the Human Genome ProjectGive us the tools..."We have long believed that the behaviour of the whole organism represented more than just the sum of its constituent parts. Until recently, we have had neither the understanding of the basic parts of which we are made, nor the computational skills and tools to predict the function of the whole organism from the knowledge of its constituent parts."Allen Cowleyof the Medical College of Wisconsin on the problems of making sense of genomic researchSpeak to me, baby"Human languages are incredibly complicated; nevertheless, all children learn them with relative ease... The only way this could be possible, linguists reason, is if children are born knowing what the language will be like. However, this conclusion has an obvious consequence, which seems absurd: either children are born knowing all languages that have ever been or ever will be spoken, and then forget all but one or two, or all languages are the same."Mark Bakerof Rutgers University compared Mohawk and English to look for a universal grammarRom for improvement"The Large Hadron Collider will use very high field superconducting magnets cooled by superfluid helium, to 1.9 deg absolute. The detectors which will analyse the collisions are even more challenging. If you take the data that will be accumulated in one year and put it on CD-Roms so that it will stack up more than two miles high, how do you handle all that?"Chris Llewellyn-Smith, director-general of Cern in Geneva, on the heart of matterHow to plot a confusion"I can plot the number of ice cream cones sold in New York City on any day during the year against the plot of the number of deaths in Bombay, India, and those two lines will go up together and down together. But that does not mean that if you ban ice cream cones in New York, you are going to prevent deaths in Bombay, because there is a confounding factor, called the heat. More heat, more ice cream cones, more heat, more deaths."Christopher Schonwalder, National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, on epidemiology and toxic monitoringAmphibian anguish"We have the only alternative model for pain research that I know of. We are the only ones injecting morphine into frogs. I don't know if that's a claim to fame or not."Craig Stevensof Oklahoma University, on using amphibians instead of rats to study painIn the long view"In the closing years of the 20th century, we're learning enough to begin to peer across the gulf that separates our universe from its source at the beginning of, or perhaps before, the Big Bang. A story is emerging in modern cosmology that will, if it follows the pattern of earlier shifts in cosmology, change our culture in ways no one can yet predict."Joel Primack, University of Southern California, Santa Cruz, on life, the universe and everythingCompiled by Tim Radford
Say what you will about Norsemen, but they ran a tight ship. Dig up a Norseman, buried aboard his long wooden boat, and you'll not find a single box of man-size tissues. Did he deck out his craft with perfumed Christmas trees, or clutter it up with drink-can holders and plastic blinds with rubber suckers? Not on your life.A Norseman wouldn't be seen dead in your average saloon car. If car burials ever come into vogue, we've a lot of smartening up to do, I can tell you. The last time my car was pinched, I was forced to draw up an inventory of its contents. There was so much of it that I had to attach my own A4 sheet to the form. The stuff wasn't worth a penny, of course. What's the new-for-old replacement value of a six-foot rubber plant? Not a lot, apparently.And of course there were the gadgets - the stick-on clock with go-faster stripes; the non-slip dashboard mat; the compass (I swear to you, it was there when I bought the car). Oh the shame of it! If I didn't know insurance people to be the most honourable and professional individuals you could wish to meet, I'd think they were doing it to embarrass me. Never again, I vowed, would I allow so many possessions to accumulate in such a confined space. But you know how it is.Oh yes you do. I've been checking. A brisk walk up and down my road revealed that there are two kinds of motorist. Those whose cars have recently been ransacked, and who therefore have nothing on display but 2.5 pristine baby seats and an unused street map, need not concern us here. But those of us who have gone at least six months since the last enforced stock-take - what a squalid picture of a car-owning democracy we paint. We too have our maps. But ours are of the spiral-bound variety, with perforated pages that scatter themselves on to every seat. There they mingle with Ikea catalogues and paint charts, holiday brochures and estate agents' details, and all the paraphernalia of escapism that we cling to in stationary traffic.Our cars all have their scrapers and squeegees, their dusters and J-Cloths, their de-icers and water-repellent sprays in full view. And talking of water, how long has that moist swimming kit been on the back seat? Assorted fumigants grin from the front shelf, disguised as Disney figurines and held in place by their big sticky feet. Others dangle from rear-view mirrors, and these take the form either of fragrant traffic lights (I've never worked out if the red, amber and green bits are supposed to smell different) or scented Christmas trees. Judging by the number of these in my street, I can only assume the 'get rid of it by Twelfth Night' rule doesn't apply to the in-car variety.You don't see too many nodding dogs these days, although I did see a nodding sheep. Where are the dogs? Don't tell me. They're all gathered together in one place, which happens to be the rear shelf of a Vauxhall Cavalier in Melton Mowbray, yes? People are funny about rear shelves. They either use them for drying old newspapers, or they regard them as some sort of display cabinet. West Indians favour a small, ornate casket placed centre-stage. It took me years to work out that these gilded boxes contain nothing more exciting than paper tissues.The transportation of tissues in both their used and unused forms accounts for half of the fuel consumed by British motorists in the average year. In a bad winter, several billion tons of Brent crude might be soaked up by this worthwhile activity. Precisely why road users produce so much excess mucus continues to baffle the scientific community.My own car is chiefly used for driving orange peel into central London and back each day, and my small son's preference for satsumas may be explained by the fact that Nissan bred this variety to have a flat bottom in order that the fruit might be lined up on the front shelf of a moving vehicle. The irritating tendency of things to roll from side to side as cars change direction (don't you hate it when every bend is accompanied by a clunk from under your seat?) seems to be the force that gets a certain kind of inventor out of bed in the morning.Consequently, my neighbours are now able to 'keep those sunglasses within arm's reach' and 'grab that refreshing drink while on the move', even if it does mean that every square inch of smooth surface has some holder or clamp stuck to it like a limpet. Children account for much of the detritus in our cars, not least the dozens of cards saying 'Happy Christmas Mummy' produced by hard-working teachers in December, only to be left on the nation's rear seats until early spring.But while kids may be responsible for all the sea-shells and funny-looking pebbles, sand, single red wellingtons, cuddly toys (always with washing instructions uppermost), nursery rhyme tapes, balls, cushions, toy steering wheels, sweets and rubber Teletubbies that I noted on my travels, they can't be blamed for the strange, beaded seat covers that their parents purchase, presumably in the belief that if the act of sitting in the car can be made to look extremely painful, then other motorists will be encouraged to use bicycles, thereby reducing pollution, feeding the hungry, saving the otter and, er, making more room on the road.And what is it about windows? Why can't people just leave them alone? At home, they rip out perfectly good frames and replace them with plastic. Then it's the car's turn for refenestration. If it were legal, there would be stained glass on the road. As it is, the window-fixated must settle for tinted, which gives outsiders the impression there's some sort of orgy going on inside when really there's nothing to see other than a couple of bored kids and a lot more orange peel.Roller blinds come cheaper. And at the very bottom end of the curtain market, there are those tasteful panels of net, attached, like so much else in this area of our lives, by unreliable suction pads. If I had any idea what those big lenses are about - the ones people stick to their rear windows - then I'd bring them in at this stage. But I haven't. So I won't. I will admit that it is probably children, albeit with a little encouragement, who insist on hanging miniature football strips in the rear window, where they inflame drivers with alternative allegances and invite passers-by to accidentally run their keys along the bodywork.But to my knowledge, no child has ever placed a notice in the windscreen of a very old Datsun bearing the legend 'Doctor on call' written in wobbly green ink. Nor do children waste precious pocket money on useless electric fans that are supposed to run off the cigarette lighter but somehow never do. These are the work of the sort of adult who thinks that installing a rubbish sack in the form of a supermarket bag attached to the gear-stick by its handles is a good way of making the car look neat. Can you imagine even the most rapacious of Norsemen hanging an Iceland bag on the prow of his longship? And now, if you'll excuse me, there's a lady from the Neighbourhood Watch at the door who wants me to tell the nice policeman why I've been taking such an interest in parked cars this afternoon.
Get your brain in gearIt's shameless promotion, we know, but the Duckhams centenary quiz is rip-roaring good fun. So answer the following, for both 1899 and 1999... :1) The number of motorists in Britain?2) The cost of a gallon of oil?3) The number of consumer motoring magazines in Britain?4) Top speed restriction in Britain?5) The land speed record?6) The cost of a gallon of petrol?7) The legal requirement for tyre tread on motor cars?8) The price of a Daimler?Answers belowAll aboard the suitcaseEggheads the world over are making 1999 a bumper year for wheel-based innovations. Stunned crowds at the 23rd Toyota Idea Olympics gasped at an ingenious invention set to revolutionise airports - the motorised suitcase. Travellers simply step on and whizz off... meanwhile, a Welsh firm called Combidrive has smashed records with a lovely little mover that notched up 255.9mpg on the road. It's got three wheels, it's made of plastic, and it's called the Mouse. Very eek-o-friendly!Some deflating newsThey may have gained the vote, broken through the trouser barrier and got one of their lot into No 10, but it seems women still have some way to go when it comes to car matters. According to a Gallup survey, nearly all men (93 per cent) are able to change a tyre without help - whereas most women (61 per cent) said they wouldn't even know where to start. Need a hand darlin'?Quote of the week'Indians aren't the best drivers in the world. Think about it. Formula One is hardly littered with names from the subcontinent.' Jeremy Clarkson, Sunday TimesSo how did you do?Answers to the quiz at top of page1899:1) Around 700. 2) Between 1s and 1s 2d. 3) Three: Autocar, Automotor &amp; Horseless Vehicle Journal, Motorcar Journals. 4) 12mph. 5) 65.79mph. 6) 1s 6d. 7) Smooth surface. 8) £384.1999:1) 37.8 million. 2) £19.99 (4.5l of Duckhams QXR) 3) There are currently around 100 consumer motoring magazines in Britain. 4) 70mph. 5) 763.035mph. 6) About £3. 7) Not less than 1.6mm tread. 8) £53,205.
What are you driving?The Formula 3000 Tyrol team approached me about a year and a half ago with the idea of getting a motor-racing team together. Over the years, people suggested a variety of ideas, from owning the leg of a racehorse to opening my own record shop, but they didn't fire my imagination. These 3000s look almost identical to Formula One cars. They have 3-litre engines and 500 kilos of downforce, so you can practically drive them on the ceiling. There's really nothing in it between them and Formula One. I also have a Peugot 306. It's really nippy around London.What do you think your racing interests say about you?I would have loved to excel at a sport - ice hockey, for example. Being in the team gives me a chance to be up at the front and enjoy the action without actually sitting in the driver's seat, although I've done that for publicity photos, and it's a pretty claustrophobic place to be. It's a thrill reminiscent of going to see rock stars in their prime. My favourite part of a race meeting is early morning. You have to be there by 5am, and there's such anticipation of what the day will bring.Do you do any driving yourself?No. I help out promotionally. I would love to have a go, though.How would you describe yourself as a driver?I'm pretty sedate. I suppose my imagination runs riot occasionally - there's always the 'what if' factor.I'm probably a pretty defensive driver. In Canada, watching out for the other person was drilled into me. I love country lanes where you can just let go, or the Autobahn in Germany. That's great. I love driving in Germany because of the...Lack of laws?Yeah, you just get from A to B and that's good.How do other people describe your driving?I don't like to have people gasping or biting their nails when they're in the car with me. My biggest fault is getting wound up at the selfishness of others. Petty things get me.Ever experienced road rage?A friend and I were driving through west London and two cars sandwiched our car between them. Two guys came out and threatened us. When we got away they followed. We hadn't done anything wrong.Did they recognise you?I was doing Radio 1 at that time, so maybe.What do you listen to on the road?Jazz. Miles Davis or John Coltrane, or Americana. I love cheerful tracks, like Tom Petty. No depression stuff. My best album of last year was Billy Bragg's Woody Guthrie record.Have you ever had sex in a car?No. I've thought about it once or twice, as a nice little distraction. I had my first serious snog in a car, but it didn't go any further than caressing and that sort of stuff. I was 14 and it was in a VW Beetle. The girl took the initiative, so I was more in a state of shock.• Kid Jensen is a DJ with Heart 106.2 FM
The Chevrolet Blazer arrived just as the snow was settling on the black ice, and for once I was genuinely pleased to be the temporary owner of an off-road leviathan.One press of the 'Auto 4-Wheel Drive' button and I was safely away on the school-run, forcing back a sneer as I passed other parents in their conventional cars.Mind you, my previous experience of big 4x4s like the Blazer has suggested that sneering opportunities are few and far between - most of the breed combine gargantuan external size with a cramped interior, and thirsty engines with feeble performance. In short I'm no fan, but as I snuggled into the Chevy's leather seats, flicked on the climate control and got used to its car-like handling and ride, I began to see the attraction.The Chevy Blazer lives up to its name by being unashamedly American - umpteen switches and knobs pepper the dash, while a vast 4.3-litre V6 pulls the beast along.But it's not all yank-tankery. The 1999 Blazer even has its steering wheel on the right. It's also sensibly small by US standards, about the same length and width as a British family car, while that big engine has the power to keep up with traffic in all conditions, even when the optional and preferable 4-speed automatic gearbox is fitted.Inevitably, the Blazer's fuel consumption figures are inexcusably poor - around 20 mpg in mixed driving - but that's no worse than most of the US or British-built competition. And the Blazer is much better than the 4x4 it most nearly resembles, the heavy-metal song on wheels that is the Ford Explorer. It feels as roomy inside but is more manoeuvrable, boasts a better ride and more European styling.One feature the Blazer shares with the Ford Explorer is a tempting list price. The fully loaded LT automatic version I've been driving costs £24,925 on the road. There are airbags everywhere, the seats move in more directions than my bottom can cope with, and there's also leather, cruise control and a CD player. Heck, there's even an electronic compass for when you lose your bearings at Tesco.It really is a value for money package, and the Blazer beats our own Discovery in the gadget-per-pound count. But beware - if we slide into recession, second-hand Blazers will be hard to sell. Few people fancy a 20 mpg car when they've got more deserving mouths to feed. And there are only 12 Chevrolet dealers in Britain.That said, you could do worse than the Blazer. And if you're in the minority of 4x4 owners who do actually go off-road, the Blazer should still satisfy, thanks to a proper ladder chassis and plenty of ground clearance. But for me the secret to the Blazer's considerable charm is its big-skies American feel, which I find as comforting as a blueberry muffin on a British winter's day. Chorus of American Pie anyone?
Last week, an Israeli journalist, Shraga Elam, was stopped at Heathrow by Customs officers. At the behest of MI6, they confiscated his personal computer, documents, and notes. Elam was going about his legitimate business. 'It was a crude attempt to frighten me,' he says.Next week, a British author and journalist, Tony Geraghty, is due to appear at Hereford police station where he faces the prospect of being charged under the 1989 Official Secrets Act - an act strongly attacked by Labour cabinet ministers when in opposition.Geraghty was arrested last year after the publication of The Irish War, in which he describes the security and intelligence agencies' growing use of sophisticated surveillance systems. 'Having served its purpose across the water,' Geraghty asks, 'could this security-coalition machine be employed at home?'It is a plausible nightmare. For Elam, the Israeli journalist, was also also investigating British intelligence - specifically their involvement in an operation which led to an Israeli millionaire being sentenced to 16 years for supplying Iran with chemicals which could be used in weapons.Elam was stopped after he travelled to Britain to interview an Englishwoman, Joy Kiddie. She had worked with Nahoum Manbar - the greatest traitor in his country's history, as the Israeli premier Binyamin Netanyahu put it last year when he was convicted in Tel Aviv.Manbar, it emerged, had been a long-term informant for the Israeli security service, Shin Bet. Kiddie had already testified at the trial, mostly held in camera, that Manbar had been using his Iranian contacts to discover the whereabouts of Ron Arad, an Israeli pilot taken prisoner in southern Lebanon in 1986.Last week Joy Kiddie gave the visiting Israeli journalist some more material. She also told him she knew someone who could arrange a meeting with MI6. But instead, he was intercepted by Customs, who took away a tape of his interview. Customs say they are still examining his papers to see 'whether they contravene export regulations'.According to the Israeli newspaper, Ha'aretz, there is a particular reason for British misbehaviour.The paper says the operation against Iran not only included agents from the CIA, Mossad, the Dutch and Polish intelligence agencies. It also included Richard Tomlinson, the former MI6 officer jailed by Britain in 1997 for breaking the Official Secrets Act after he tried to write a book. According to Ha'aretz, Tomlinson was the MI6 man handling Kiddie.Tomlinson, who now lives in Switzerland, is unwilling to comment. The British media are in any case prevented under an injunction from publishing new information from him. But if the Israeli media - who are suggesting the Manbar case could hide a scandal as big as the Iran-Contra affair - are free to investigate, then why can't we in Britain?For, just as there are important issues about the present-day use of Irish surveillance techniques, so there are many questions about the Manbar case which remain unanswered.Manbar stopped trading with Iran in 1993, yet he was not arrested until 1997. Mrs Kiddie insists that Manbar 'would not do anything against his country'. The story, she says, is 'much bigger' than people realise.The cold war, which was used to justify so many intelligence agency excesses, has long been over. But Customs' action against Elam, the arrest of Geraghty, the obtaining of the Tomlinson injunction against the entire British media: these events suggest the New Labour Government is trying to ingratiate itself with the security establishment just as its predecessors did in the Labour governments of the 1970s.Home Secretary Jack Straw recently explained that Labour has dropped its proposal for a public interest defence in the Official Secrets Act on the grounds that Britain's security and intelligence agencies are 'fully accountable'.He cannot be serious. The Act imposes absolute silence on present and former agents such as Tomlinson - which John Wadham, director of Liberty, the civil rights group, says almost certainly violates the European Convention on Human Rights.So too, does the arrest and harassment of journalists for asking questions.
Every software company would like to own the software that runs the Internet, but an American libertarian "gun nut" and martial arts expert called Eric Raymond stands in their way. "If the Microsoft ninja attack squad comes calling, I'll be ready for them," he says, laughing heartily.Judging by the so-called "Halloween documents" - Microsoft's leaked analysis of the Linux operating system, which Raymond published on his Web site last year - they're more afraid of him than he is of them. "If ever there was an example of a company staring at the future and seeing its own Vietnam, the Halloween documents are definitely it," he says.Raymond's sudden rise to fame made him the star speaker at the UK's first Linux &amp; Open Source Conference, organised by NetProject at the Commonwealth Institute in London yesterday. He'd been invited in his role as self-appointed leader of the "open source" movement, whereby computer programs are developed co-operatively by enthusiastic users, instead of by hirelings in monolithic corporations. For this to be possible, the "source code" that makes up the program - the codes that companies like Apple, IBM and Microsoft guard jealously as their "crown jewels" - has to be published openly, usually on the Internet, where anyone can read it. To participate, companies that live by selling software have to give it away, though they can still charge for all kinds of services.It sounds an unlikely recipe for success, but "open source" is a rapidly-growing force. Linux, a Unix-compatible operating system, is "open source". Apache, the market-leading Internet server software for sending Web pages to browsers, is "open source", as are most of the programs used to run the Internet. And it was one of Raymond's papers - The Cathedral and the Bazaar, delivered at the Linux Kongress 97 - that inspired Netscape to publish the source code of its Navigator Web browser last year.The impact of this speech "was as much a surprise to me as it was to everyone else," says Raymond, because it was based on the tradition of "hacker culture" (where a hacker is a computer programming enthusiast, not someone who breaks into computers). Raymond and his friend and colleague Richard Stallman, founder of the Free Software Foundation, had been saying similar things for years (see The GNU-man v the gunman, below). However, Raymond was saying them in a new way to a new audience: one that, thanks to its experience with Linux, actually believed that free software could work."What I did was give the Internet hacker culture a rhetoric, a language, about its practices that it had not had before," Raymond says. "I didn't invent these methods; I didn't change reality on the ground. What surprised me was that, by happy accident, that rhetoric was readily comprehensible to people outside the hacker culture. Fortune 500 executives could understand it!"With the grass-roots "open source" movement starting to attract commercial attention, Raymond seized his chance to become, in his own words, "its travelling evangelist and carnival barker: Get Your Open Source Right Here! My thought was that in order to prevent this being a fluke, a one-off event, someone needed to go out there and explain to the world why they needed to pay attention," he says. "But my role shouldn't be over-interpreted. People like Linus Torvalds and his dotty band of kernel hackers are much more important than I am." (Torvalds wrote the small kernel or operating system core at the heart of Linux, with much of the rest coming from the Free Software Foundation's GNU (GNU's Not Unix) system.)With the help of advocates such as Bruce Perens, who worked for a GNU/Linux distributor called Debian, Raymond formed a non-profit organisation called the Open Source Initiative, trade-marked the Open Source name, and published a 10-point definition of Open Source software. "It doesn't just mean access to the source code," he says. When companies make software "open source", they also have to allow rivals to modify it and incorporate it into their own programs.Raymond's message to software buyers is that they should use "open source" software because it's more reliable, and cheaper and easier to maintain. "The way we get reliability in software is by independent peer review: by lots of people looking at and checking the code. That works, and it's apparent from over 30 years of experience with software engineering that nothing else works," he says. "Open source" software is cheaper not because it's (probably) free, but because it's easier to maintain: the cost of fixing bugs or software errors is shared by all the programmers and companies who use the code."But both of these &#91;advantages&#93; pale into insignificance next to the big one, which is strategic business risk," says Raymond. "If you allow your company to become dependent on 'closed source', you've put yourself in a position where your strategic business systems are hostage to the whims of a monopoly supplier. Now is that software going to be changed in response to your business plan, or in response to the monopoly vendor's needs? If you ask the question in that way, it pretty much answers itself."Naturally the monopoly suppliers have different ideas. Oliver Roll, director of marketing at Microsoft UK, says: "The good thing about 'open source' is that it's a great learning environment for &#91;software&#93; developers, who can dynamically share their skills. But in a business sense, it doesn't offer what the vast majority of our customers require: a stable, common platform with lots of applications, and a road-map on which they can bet their IT infrastructure and business processes."Raymond claims that IBM, the world's largest computer company, is a supporter and has released lots of "open source" code recently. But Tony Occleshaw, marketing manager for IBM's European software business, says not.He agrees that IBM has contributed code to Apache, an existing "open source" program, and IBM's "relatively independent" Java operation, AlphaWorks, shares code because that's the way the Java development community works. But IBM is still "formalising its approach" to "open source". Occleshaw says: "It's probably about 60 or 90 days before we go public with our position as a corporation. Which of our products should we volunteer as 'open source'? How should we support our customers? It's almost like going back 20 years. The corporates wonder who's going to support them: what's the infrastructure behind all these things?"Raymond has helped put the "open source" software movement on the industry agenda, but many questions remain. Can "open source" deliver the thousands of applications programs that are needed? If it can, will they be usable by ordinary people? Linux, Apache and other programs show that "open source" can deliver reliable programs, but they can be hard to use."That is a weakness for us," Raymond admits. "Although I'm confident that Linux will become dominant in the server space, I'm less definite about when I think it will become dominant on the desktop. Achieving majority market share on the desktop requires that we learn how to systematically address the usability problem, and we don't have a history of doing that really well."But surely the real threat comes not from software houses but from the big companies who are moving in to exploit electronic commerce. Aren't they going to take over the Internet? "Only if we let them, and we're not going to," Raymond replies.Comparing the hacker community to the craft guilds of earlier ages, Raymond says that the people these companies have to hire to run their Internet systems "are at least as loyal to their culture as they are to their employers. Often they're quite a bit more loyal to their culture and their colleagues than to an employer they're only going to be working with for another few months."It's kind of fruitful to view the whole Linux phenomenon, and everything I've been doing, as the Internet's response to the threat of outside control," says Raymond."Something that not everyone understands is that the Internet really does have its own culture, and it's a pretty well established one. The people who make it up are not very happy about anybody else running their network, whether it's a government or a large corporation. It's our network, we want to run it our way."The importance of being Eric"I am an armed man, prepared to use deadly force to defend my life and my freedom. I support the Second Amendment and firearms rights." Fighting words from Eric Raymond to be found, with a selection of hiswritings.He also confesses to being a founder member of the Eric Conspiracy. "Around 1987 someone on the newsgroup talk.bizarre observed that there seemed to be an awful lot of hackers named Eric around - 'and have you noticed they all have moustaches and they're all Unix system manglers?' He then opined that these must be the secret signs of an insidious conspiracy."Well, there went our deep, dark, ancient secret! No point in the hooded robes and solemn blood oaths of silence sworn by guttering torchlight anymore. Usenet has spoken. Yes, there is an Eric Conspiracy. You, too, may be eligible to join, use our nifty logo on your home page, and participate in our sinister plans for network and world domination!"To become an initiate you must:1. Be an Eric, Erik, Erich, Erica or Erika. We're not speciesist - one of the qualified members is a cat.2. Have a Moustache - real or virtual (Ericas and Erikas are encouraged to fake it).3. You must Mangle Unix.The gunman and the GNU-manRichard Stallman, founder of the Free Software Foundation, has done more than anyone else to create the free software movement. His GNU system (GNU's Not Unix) forms the basis of what's sold as Linux. However, he sees the freedom to change, to copy, and to share software as being more important than anything else, because it is an ethical issue.Raymond thinks it's more important for software to be good than for it to be free: "if we can't win by producing the best software then we don't deserve to win any moral crusades," he says. In other words, it's a business issue.However, Stallman points out that all the software that meets Raymond's special definition of "open source" also meets his own definition of "free" so they are talking about the same software. They're just saying different things about it.
For PC owners the debate has caused deep divisions. Is Unreal the greatest first person shooter, with its lush outdoor scenes and shuddering pace? Or does the prize go to Half Life, the frighteningly claustrophobic Alienesque sci-fi adventure? Or is Quake II still the master with its delicate balance of massive weapons and vile enemies?If you try to find an answer to these questions among action-game aficionados, be prepared for confusion. Bustling Internet chat sites reveal nothing more than the crazy passions of fanatical evangelists, all extolling their own view of this gun-'em-down world. Even magazine editors are divided. And if that's not baffling enough, a whole new generation of shooting games is on the way.First person shooters are precisely what they claim to be. Dating back to Id's superb Wolfenstein and, of course, Doom, they offer the user a 3D maze to explore, weapons and health repair kits to collect, as well as enemies of varying power and intelligence to defeat. It's all created in the first person, so - unlike over-the-shoulder shooters such as Tomb Raider - you never actually see your own character.All you're looking at are demons, monsters, creepies and killers popping up out of nowhere bristling with triple-barrelled nailguns, movement-sensitive limpet-mines, poisonous goo-bombs or simply very large sticks.For PC game developers, first person shooters are the leading technological benchmark. FPS games push polygons as fast as any racing game. They call for levels of artificial intelligence among computer opponents that's way ahead of even the best strategy games. After all, the computer characters have to "know" how to hunt, and how to avoid being hunted.Graphics and sound effects are always at the leading edge. New titles often cause rivals to delay their new launches asthey seek to outdo the competition. Daikatana by Ion Storm is virtually a byword for back-to-the- drawing-board delays. It was originally due for release last summer, but won't now appear until March at the earliest. Rumour-mongers insist the delays are partly due to unexpected advances coming to market, which have dismayed the producers.The major US powerhouses (Id, Epic and Valve) don't just create their own games, sequels and add-on packs in abundance. They even sell the technology on which their shooters are based (known as the "engine") to lesser developers who then attempt to create their own shooters. These generally feature some twist, such as a historical angle or even comic element.For example, Duke Nukem Forever, the sequel to the rib-tickling Duke Nukem, is based on the Unreal engine. But prior to a highly publicised change of heart by developer 3D Realms, the game was being crafted around the Quake II engine. The Duke Nukem series plays on the schlock value of violent shooters, setting the violence in inner-city locations with plenty of mock cliché characters. The new game will be set partly in Las Vegas, offering rich pickings for gags.FPS games also retain a huge online element despite the obvious difficulty - so much stuff moving around on screen at once means the games often slow down or even freeze. At peak times in the United States, thousands of games are being played simultaneously, each with up to 30 players online. Even on UK services such as BT's Wireplay, you'll always find a game of Quake II to join.Online's greatest players, such as the Californian Dennis "Thresh" Fong, are mini-celebrities commanding small appearance fees and even sponsorship money from the likes of joystick manufacturers.What are the games to look forward to in this dynamic environment? First up must be Quake III. The last version of this tremendously engaging game sold more than a million copies. Despite increased competition, this version will, despite increased competition, probably be an even greater success.The focus now won't be on mowing down dumb hordes of killers while searching for a passage to the next level. It will involve the player smartly outwitting highly intelligent opponents one on one.Id's creators believe the way to play Quake is online (in so-called Deathmatches) against real humans. They are trying to create a single person game that will convince PC owners to go online. A release date for Quake III has not been announced, but late autumn is a reasonable assessment.Unreal II is also being slated for release this year, at least by some optimistic people within publisher GT Interactive. But 2000 appears more likely. It's still at the design state with developer Legend being roped in by Epic to undertake the job.Epic itself is working on Unreal Tournament, a multiplayer-based version due this summer. What people enjoyed about Unreal over its competitor Quake II was the superiority of graphical environments. The game simply looked better, with state of the art water effects, realistic skylines and a greater variety of textures. It also attempted to offer an element of surprise, with quiet moments suddenly interrupted by the appearance of a satanic enemy.Finally, there's Half Life, the FPS of the moment. It tried to set an action game within a clearly defined story, not just a series of missions. Its realtime 3D introductory sequence is one of the best ever, setting the scene for a thrilling adventure.Developer Valve is working on Half Life Team Fortress, a multi-player team-based game. In this, the player chooses human team mates online to fight a group of human enemies who are seeking the same goal. That's often stealing a flag or taking a building. For online players, this element of teamwork with its allocation of specialised defensive and offensive positions is the most rewarding.Basically, it takes more thought than just killing everything the player encounters.Ultimately, if you've played a first person shooter and found yourself still playing into the early hours of the morning, be prepared for more late nights. One last point; if you play these games, do yourself a favour, and buy a 3D graphics card and a modem.Playing online, within the best graphical environments that game technology can offer, is going to be as much fun as you are ever going to have with a computer.
One day your prints will go"The primary role of journals will in future be to provide papers with an imprimatur of quality and to add editorial value. Their traditional role as a distribution outlet will diminish. This is already happening in physics where the Los Alamos e-print archives have become the primary means of communication, not just in high-energy physics but also in astrophysics, quantum physics, condensed matter theory, mathematics and computer science."Declan Butler on the Internet revolution in science publishing. NatureAbove us the waves"With the worldwide market in drugs derived from terrestrial plants currently valued at US$22bn, there is an obvious incentive for companies to tap into the secrets of the deep. The exploitation of marine natural products is still in its infancy - only about 10,000 compounds have been isolated from marine organisms compared with more than 150,000 derived from terrestrial plants."Marcel Jaspars, marine natural products laboratory, University of Aberdeen. Chemistry and IndustryPhysician, heal thyself"The entire species of physician-scientist is at risk - not only those doing patient-oriented research. Think of it as conservation biologists would: we've been so focused recently on the spotted owl (that is, physicians who do patient-oriented research) that we haven't noticed that all owls are at risk (that is, all physician-scientists)."Leon Rosenberg, a molecular biologist at Princeton. ScienceNot averse to science"Questions soon began to be asked whether science had suffered because it had been starved of poetry for so long and whether as a result science had become sterile and inhuman. Among the responses were hastily arranged poetry courses for science students; these however were to produce little noticeable effect... The practice still continues today in some quarters, apparently because of the widespread belief  that, without the spark of poetry, the flames of inspired creativity might never be kindled."Denis Rouvray, professor of chemistry at the University of Georgia at Athens, Georgia. Chemistry in Britain• Soundbites compiled by Tim Radford
The Bureau of Low Technology functions as a shrine to yesterday's gaming interfaces, offers talks on video game history and protects and preserves old games."We're at the very beginning of a kind of tech nostalgia dedicated to these dead media," says William Linn, director of San Francisco new media gallery Blasthaus, which while displaying installations by contemporary artists working in new media, also accommodates BOLT.The Bureau also carts a vintage arcade game collection to underground music events, so that patrons can indulge in a round of Mad Planets or Lunar Lander while chilling out to DJs spinning jungle and techno. Recently, the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art tapped BOLT for proper 80s atmosphere to launch works by the late New York graffiti artist Keith Haring.BOLT's success encouraged Linn to serve up Low Tech Odyssey, an exhibition of some 40 vintage pinball and video arcade games in association with vintage games collective California Extreme. For five weeks until January 10, offerings such as giant-screen Pong, the entire Pac-Man family, Red Baron, Elevator Action, Boot Hill, Bi-Plane, Tank II, Battlezone and Space Wars drew crowds to the little gallery. Among the visitors were some of the original Atari design team.For $5, visitors got unlimited playtime on all the machines as well as the chance to fiddle with stacks of Frogger, Berzerk and Asteroids cartridges and old gaming consoles like Mattel's Intellivision, Magnavox's Odyssey, a Fairchild Video Entertainment System and Vectrex, which looks like a narrow television turned on its side. While older visitors basked in nostalgia, 20-somethings marvelled at the simplicity of games like Pong ("I guess that's why they took drugs," noted one).Linn says viewers often feel alienated by contemporary technology, while early games interfaces "are very simple and speak this universal language". Almost anyone around the world can look at Pong and understand the basic concept.
"What's with this Internet?" an old friend called to ask me late one night last week. "I mean I know it's a big deal and all," she admitted, "but this is crazy!"By "this," she meant the recent spate of new Internet stock offerings, where securities issued in the morning at nine or 10 dollars per share are worth 10 times more by the end of the day.As a result, these tiny companies, with fewer than a couple of hundred employees, with no real assets to speak of, and no earnings whatsoever, end up achieving "market caps" (the total value of all their stock) equivalent to that of major airlines and defence contractors - companies that employ thousands, earn billions, and own planes, boats, factories, and real estate."How can this be?" my puzzled friend asked. She already understood that the prices of stocks are based on speculation more than valuation.She knew that the sky-high share prices of companies like Marketwatch.com and The Globe.com are based not on their current earnings (or losses) but on what people think these companies might earn at some point in the future. She knew that investors believe that the Internet and online marketing are going to be "the next big thing."What she didn't know, however, is that the frenzy with which the financial community is investing in Internet issues is based less on earnings projections than it is on the needs of the stock market itself. The Internet is the "next big thing" not because it will actually be such a big thing, but because the markets need a big thing, any big thing, to keep themselves and the economy growing.Consider, for a moment, if these Internet speculators are correct, and companies that conduct Internet shopping transactions will be making billions of dollars per year in the near future. Well then, if all this shopping is online what happens to the department store, the "superstore", the mall, or downtown itself, for that matter?Shouldn't the emergence of an Internet shopping universe also require the demise - or at least a major contraction - of the physical shopping universe? And then, of course, a corresponding collapse of the oil industry (no need to drive to the store) the banking industry (or at least the physical banks where we get our cash), and the commercial real estate market?And who is going to bring all this stuff to us? Won't this be a boom for the United Parcel Service, Airborne, and Federal Express? And, along the same lines, wouldn't this also be a great time to invest in chiropractic services, orthopedics, and other treatments for the ailing backs of all the delivery people?If investment bankers were earnest in their 21st Century earnings estimates for Internet companies, then they would also be calculating the impact of this consumption revolution on other industries and society at large. I suspect they are ignoring these effects not out of ignorance, but because they don't really believe that Internet future they are promoting will actually arrive.It's as easy, perhaps easier, to make money by predicting and provoking stock market gyrations than by accurately forecasting real shifts in the economic engine. When market valuations get into the stratosphere, it doesn't take a Goldman or a Sachs to understand that share prices have more to do with psychology than with fundamentals.As history instructs, an economy can keep growing only for a century or two before the resources fuelling its expansion reach their limit. Then, only a major technological innovation - like the steam engine in the industrial age - can boost production and consumption to the levels required to continue the growth in prosperity.The Internet is certainly a leap forward in technology, but it doesn't really increase productivity in the same way that mechanical devices did in centuries past. It simply replaces the means by which the same resources and products are distributed.While buying our goods online from distant warehouses may spur consumption by eliminating the added cost of retail showrooms and shuffling inventories, the only new things produced will be the computers and networks themselves.Will life be better this way? Do we want to buy everything we need online? No one's even asking those sorts of questions, because they have nothing to do with the real reason this vision of an Internet future is dominating the investment bankers' latest tip sheets.To brokerage firms, the Internet and the companies figuring out how to make it work are no more than an excuse to spur the Nasdaq average to new heights, and the best evidence of how an economy that is out of steam will find yet another "big thing" to keep the engine running.© Douglas Rushkoff 1999
Tesco may soon be ready to sell you a specially-adapted version of the 3Com Palm Pilot palmtop computer with a built-in bar code reader. Before you throw away that empty tin of tasty Millennium Bugs, you will be able to zap the bar-code with your pocket computer, send the data to your PC and merge it with your usual online shopping order.The system will save typing, unless you don't have a product with a bar-code to zap. The Tesco system has been developed by Unipower, in London, and uses a Palm SPT1500 computer from Symbolics. But it will only be offered to online shoppers who use Tesco's home delivery service. That's limited to 12 stores: 11 in London and one in Leeds. Sony also has plans to enter the pocket computer-organiser market with the SCPH4000 PocketStation. (Tech watch: ARM processor, 128K RAM,32 by 32 dot LCD screen.) It will play more than 30 games, and it has a clock and calendar built in. But the selling point is this: when plugged into a Sony PlayStation, it can be used to save games.Big shipments of long-promised PocketStations are expected to hit Japan on Saturday, but there's no news of a possible UK version. By the way, that tin of Millennium  Bugs is a not a throwaway line. The bug-shaped milk chocolates cost £3.50 for a 130g tin from Whittard of Chelsea, which has 117 stores (0800 525092). They're not stocked by Tesco, as far as we know, and Online has not taste-tested them.
Programming Satan's computer - that's how American cryptography expert Bruce Schneier describes creating encryption software, programs that use mathematics to encode digital information such as e-mail messages, credit card numbers or computer files."Most engineers are used to making things work," he says. "Security software is different. It's not about making things work. It's about making sure things do not fail."If anyone understands encryption's ins and outs, it's the laconic, long-haired Schneier. His 1994 textbook Applied Cryptography graces the shelves of everyone from the hardcore "crackers" who try to attack computer systems, to college students, security software CEOs, miscellaneous programmers, and government agents trying to keep up with the crackers, or who argue that, for security reasons, people shouldn't have access to the forms of encryption Schneier describes.Schneier has designed an encryption algorithm named, cryptically, Blowfish, which remains uncracked after years of "cryptanalysis", and has co-authored a new algorithm named Twofish. To polish off his geek credentials, he's a contributing editor to the granddaddy of computer publications, Dr Dobb's Journal, where he edited a column called Algorithm Alley.Paradoxically, says Schneier, it's impossible to guarantee that security systems won't fail, no matter how thoroughly encryption software designers gird their products against attackers. "It's not the attacks you know, it's the attacks you never thought of," he says. Cryptography is essential for a secure computer system, but does not automatically make a system secure. That insight led Schneier to take a topsy-turvy approach to received encryption wisdom. He's embraced a doctrine of fallibility - a perspective that surprised many encryption specialists last Monday at the world's largest gathering of cryptography aficionados, the annual RSA Data Security Conference in San José, California.Arguing that cryptography doesn't have to be perfect, but does need to manage risk, Schneier proposed to a packed conference session that cryptography shift from a focus on fraud prevention to fraud detection. His pointed questioning of traditional approaches contrasted with conference speakers elsewhere, who extolled the virtues of preventative security software methods such as "PKI", this year's hot acronym. Public Key Infrastructure is a complex system in which people encode and decode information sent across a computer network using mathematical "keys", all of which is managed through a network of "certification authorities" which verify the keys, and "verification authorities", which vouch for the certification authorities.But detection is not only easier than prevention, Schneier says, it's often more productive. He insists that it's a myth that society prevents crime - instead, "We detect crime after the fact," he says, "and through that detection you have a kind of backchannel for future prevention." What security software should do, he believes, is to audit break-ins in such a way that the software can provide evidence that can be used in court against crackers.He's discussed ways of creating software to do that in a paper co-authored with John Kelsey, a cryptographer with Schneier's Minnesota-based encryption software company, Counterpane Systems. Schneier says a successful program would detect any modifications made to a system or its contents by a break-in, log those modifications, and use encryption to make those logs unreadable to a cracker.To do this, Schneier and Kelsey worked out a system utilising "hash chains". A hash is a condensed, mathematical version of a text - the end product of an encryption method in which text is processed by an algorithm, or set of mathematical steps needed to complete a task.As a computer system runs, any modification to it is logged, and the log is turned into an encrypted hash. The next modification is logged, placed with the first hash, and a new hash of the two events is created. Hashing previous hashes, one after another, makes it impossible for a cracker to remove logs from the system - thus covering tracks - without creating a noticeable gap in the hash chain. "Attackers can't generate new entries or change the old ones," Schneier says.He finished with a comment he attributed to Microsoft's Cambridge Research Laboratory director Roger Needham: "If you think cryptography can solve your problem, then you don't understand your problem and you don't understand cryptography."
If the beleaguered law lord, Lord Hoffmann, is feeling friendless this week, he could do worse than peruse the Internet newsgroup uk.legal. Debate here on the Pinochet case has been of a high quality, with relevant judgments fully quoted and lawyers from the UK and Chile discussing the finer points. The result, Hoffmann would find, has been the unanimous opinion that although the Lords were right to overturn his ruling, he should not resign as no actual bias was found.Unfortunately for Hoffmann, however, this may not sway his colleagues as it appears that senior judges do not participate in Usenet debates. One regular user of the group has a vague memory of Lord Bingham once posting a message, and another once received a confidential e-mail from a judge after posting to the group - but that was about it. Not a very impressive tally, given recent noises from the Government about wiring up the legal system.The Lord Chancellor himself did put in an appearance of sorts in the newsgroup last week when an individual known as "The infamous culex" (which sounds legal, but is etymological) posted 19 anagrams of "'Lord Irvine of Lairg" including "Novel or frigid liar"; "Original for drivel"; and "Evil, drooling friar".All this pales into insignificance compared with the really meaty debate currently raging on uk.legal: whether a judge was right to dismiss a US juror in a case related to Whitewater for wearing a full Star Trek uniform - complete with phaser and tricorder - and whether the same would happen over here.Apparently the juror had been thrown off only after telling the media that the US justice system would be improved if it imitated that of the Intergalactic Federation. That was going too far, as she had sworn to uphold the laws of the United States.No one has yet asked what will happen if one of the Law Lords turns up to deliver the second Pinochet judgment in Star Trek gear - presumably it would be OK unless he was shown to have links with the programme's fan club.
Is the computer important... for you?... for the world?No more or less important than the wheel, the steam engine etc. It's a tool, remember.What about the Internet... does it threaten or enhance individual freedom?So far so good... beautiful chaos. Listen to all those voices out there.Do you use a Mac or a PC, or something different?iMac for the Net and an old warhorse of a Apple Performa 630 for basic music composition. Started with a Commodore 64 (1983) followed by Atari 1040ST (1987), moved to Macintosh in 1991.What do you use the machine for?As much as possible. Writing, composition, fax, e-mail, Web site design, banking, stationery, diary. I leave the house for milk, cigarettes and the occasional Bloody Mary. The Great Outdoors is vastly overrated.Any particular software, and anything you'd like but can't have yet?Unfortunately I never have the time to compare. I plump for one and upgrade. Cubase for music, ClarisWorks for word processing, for example. Director is the next leap. Multimedia is the logical way to go for the musician who loves to get above his station.Any favourite spots on the Net?I loveAnacam(24-hour voyeurism),Disinfois great. But I tend to just roam arbitrarily - spying is a good way to learn. I monitor all the Banshee boards and discussion groups until tedium gets the better of me.Do you get into dialogues with strangers on the Net?Of course. Having a guest book onmy siteis instant reaction to your work - something I never had as a member of the Banshees.Do you use your own name when surfing?Only if I want to be noticed, which is rarely. I can be tracked if people are inclined so the use of a pseudonym is pretty redundant.Spend long at the terminal?As much as I can. I could spend all day and night writing music, designing pages for the site, answering mail, but my two-year-old daughter drags me away to watch Sleeping Beauty - I'm not complaining.Are you a geek?When asked, my partner said I was a "morbid, old geek".Any favourite geeks?Ralph and Florian (Kraftwerk); Wendy, formerly Walter, Carlos (composer of suite Switched On Bach and the soundtrack to A Clockwork Orange).On a desert island, would you prefer a human or a computer for company?As long as I had warmth, a computer. Everything fascinating and stimulating about a human dissolves over time. Unlike the computer.Professionally, what's taking up your time?Being interviewed by e-mail! Next.• Compiled by Hamish Mackintosh
To find out what life on the road was really like for pensioners, I donned a hat, glasses and mac - and went off to my local car dealer, Dursley Garage in Gloucestershire, in search of an old man's motor.To be convincingly old, I needed the perfect cliche for doddery driving: a Robin Reliant Rialto, in road-rage beige. Having mastered the controls, I made for the Bristol suburbs to gain some vital first-hand experience.The poet Jenny Joseph once said that when she is old, she will wear purple and learn to spit. In the same rebellious vein, I vowed to get a Reliant and drive it very slowly. The first thing I noticed was that, this being a polite nation, no one points and laughs. I proceed at a genteel pace. At a sedate 18mph, everyone is waving - I never realised I had so many friends.Empowering my way around Bristol the Robin taught me a vital lesson in road-going ageism. To some, the sight of the bumper and my cap edging out ahead of them was enough to prompt an axe attack. For instance, when showing due hesitation at a busy junction, I am met with a seamless wall of traffic. No one wants to let an old man in a beige Robin out. Behind me, furious Vectra man flashed his lights. These people probably thought that, by the time they got past me, they'd need to pull over and join the pension queue themselves. That's if they live that long, the young fools. The road may be ruled by four wheels but take it from me, wisdom is a three-wheeled thing.Not everyone wanted to savage geriatrics though. When I stopped for some lead-laden fuel at a garage, I was stooped over the petrol cap for an eternity: the damn thing just wouldn't budge. Whereupon a nice young man from the workshop came out, produced a screw driver and removed the offending item, replacing it, free of charge, with a shiny new cap.
Next time you're in a traffic jam, here's a titbit to help pass the time: of all the people in the world who have ever lived beyond 65, half of them are alive today. If you suspect that the majority of these people are clogging up UK roads, you may be right. According to the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency's database, there are 5.8 million drivers aged 61 and above on the road. This includes five stalwarts aged between 111 and 120 who are still, officially, out there somewhere. The driving licence, it seems, is one of the few pieces of ID to stay valid beyond the grave. Should you die, the DVLA receives no automatic notification.Alive or dead though, the retired make up nearly 20 per cent of Britain's 32 million drivers. As a result, winning the pensioner pound will become ever more important in the design and marketing of post-millennial cars. However, many car-makers fear that popularity among the travel-rug-and-matching-cushion set can ruin their reputation among younger drivers.Proton is celebrating its tenth year in the UK with sales record mostly built upon older drivers, but the Malaysian marque is keen to attract the youth. And Rover has just spent £12m on a TV ad campaign to reinforce the image of the 200 and 400 models as trendy young things. Spokesman Nick Argent says it's not because the marque is ungrateful for its older buyers: "Some of our cars have been very popular with empty-nesters and that's fine, but they get older. We think it makes more sense to aim at people who will repeat purchase."Ford has decided to bring the perspective of aged drivers into the early stages of car design. For a first hand feel of what it's like to be getting on, Ford is using an 'empathy suit'. Teams in Europe and the US now clad themselves in the 'third-age suit' before stepping into the design studio. According to a Ford, the outfit "looks like a cross between a beekeeper's protective gear and a high-tech astronaut suit, restricts the physical agility of Ford engineers in order to simulate driving capabilities of individuals often 30 years or more older than themselves... the material also adds bulk and restricts movement to key areas such as the knees, elbow, stomach and back. Together with gloves, which reduce the sense of touch, and goggles that simulate cataracts, it gives engineers and designers a feel for the needs of an older generation as they design new vehicles."The suit was used to design the Focus, but Ford stresses it also uses real people. "We have a ladies panel, because ladies play an important part in choosing the marital car," says a spokesman. "And we recognise that older people drive our cars, so we have to take them into account, too." At the offices of the The Oldie magazine, Ford's idea raises a laugh. "It's slightly peculiar for Ford to think that old people can hardly move," says Caroline Law. "But they're on the right track if they think this is where the money is. The forties, fifties and sixties make a better target group. They're not spending their cash on CDs and clothes. Our own readers are quite happy to splash out on new cars. That said though, Mercedes is the only car maker to advertise with us."According to the word on the street, Britain's growing band of mature drivers need every bit of design guidance they can get. After all, they never indicate, drive the wrong way round the M25 while smiling calmly, run over your feet in the supermarket car park and leave a Benny Hill-esque trail of road rage wherever they go. Don't they? Not according to Bryan Lunn, chief examiner at the Institute of Advanced Motorists. Fresh (and unscathed) from assessing a 93 year-old-man's skills, Lunn says that, young, middle-aged or old, no one has a monopoly on dangerous driving."The general view is that all old drivers are doddery and all young drivers are mad, but there are good and bad at all ages. We do, however, have to be aware that as we get older, our reactions slow down, our vision deteriorates and physical movement becomes more difficult." An insurer's cost chart reveals an inevitable curve: teenage to 30-year-old drivers are liability in motion; from 30 to 59, we edge carefully across a plateau of social responsibility. During these years, the desire to overtake is muted by a new and obsessive interest in child seats, family holidays and DIY. It is only when retirement comes and goes that premiums start to rise again. But this return to high-risk status is not, says the Association of British Insurers, because we decide we might as well go out with our exhausts blazing."The risks drivers pose increase as they move into their seventies as their reactions start to slow down," says spokesman Malcolm Tarling. "By the time you reach 80, if you try to find a new insurer the chances are no one will cover you. Hence older drivers tend to stick with the insurer they've always been with."Nevertheless, the ABI stresses that, though old, slow drivers may trigger road rage, while young drivers between the ages of 17 and 21 are around eight times more likely to be involved in a true accident.So when should you throw in the keys and take the bus? Debra Harris of the DVLA says the driving licence is what is known as a "life licence". "It expires on the day of your 70th birthday," she says. "But a few weeks before, the DVLA sends a form asking if you have any medical reasons for preventing renewal. If none are declared, your license is renewed for another three years, then the same form is sent out again." The DVLA says the system "keeps an eye on the condition of older drivers", but it is self-policing: the responsibility for declaring oneself a dodgy driver lies with you. Where medical certification is necessary, such as after an illness, the IAM feels that the driver's GP, whose job it is to sign the form, is put in a difficult position, as at that stage, most people are on good terms with their doctor, who can feel compromised."We don't call for a maximum age limit though," says Bryan Lunn. "A cut-off point might be fair for 75 per cent of drivers, but not for the rest." At the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents, safety experts agree with the IAM. "The driving licence is too easy to get and too hard to lose," says Claudine Weeks. "But there is no correlation between age and skill. Truth is, no drivers fail to benefit from regular extra training, at any stage in their lives ."
Don't get me startedIf you've spent 50 grand on a car, you want it to do what it's told. We're talking voice-activated- controls. You tell it to turn the volume of the stereo down or put the wipers on and it does. The trouble is that not all cars understand all voices, as Mercedes have been finding out. So when Jimmy from Ayrshire tells his new E-class '"ch aye, hoots mon, it's a braw nicht fir puttin' on the licht", the poor car has no idea what he's on about. So they've called in the army. Really. British squaddies in Germany (the ones with regional accents) are helping out at Daimler-Chrysler - teaching the cars how to understand real English.The star's a car-buyerParagon Car Finance has researched star signs and the car-buying habits they inspire: Capricorns are the stingiest and Libras are the most extravagant - and also the most likely to buy a Skoda. Hang on, that doesn't really follow. So we won't bother with this silly survey any more.The field-good factorIf you're one of those 4WD owners who has never ventured off the school run route, let alone off-road, you can now live more easily in your shame. Splash-on Mud has arrived. Invented by Aussies Darren and Helen Sherren, you just add water, flick over the car, and impress the neighbours with stories of rugged outdoor adventures, even though you've never been beyond the M25.Quote of the week"Whenever a new car was launched, the Vauxhall PR department would telephone to see if I'd like a test drive. And in the interests of fair and balanced reporting, I would always say yes. And I'd hate it. They even sent me a V6 Vectra, but a dog turd is still a dog turd, even when you smother it with horseradish sauce" Jeremy Clarkson, Top Gear magazine.A touch of glassTwo winter driving tips. Clean your headlights: dirt can decrease luminous intensity by more than 50 per cent. And always carry your sunglasses in the car: winter glare can be extremely hazardous.
What do you drive?I've got two Mercs - an A-class and an estate.What state are they in?They're pretty new. I have 'em cleaned. There's no mess on the inside either. I'm quite clean.Do they have any extras?No, they're just as they are. I like 'em, new cars. What do I like? I like 'em new! Then you ain't got to keep having 'em done.What reg are they?New.Are they any particular colour?Normal colour. I don't want to tell you the colour, in case you come and run your keys down the side.What would be your dream car?The new Mercedes convertible. I just love it. I just love Mercedes. They're brilliant cars. They seem to run forever and don't need much doing to them.Any good beneath the bonnet?No.What does your car say about you?I don't know. I'm practical. It's a family car. I'm a family person. I wouldn't say it's flash. It's very basic.Describe your driving.Slow. Cautious. I might put my foot down once in a while, but I'd never go over the speed limit.How would other people describe your driving?Dunno. Just slow. I'm cautious and quite considerate. I drive a lot. Most people are all right about my driving.Anything you're particularly bad at?Dunno. I'm not really prepared for all these questions!Tell us how you passed your driving test.It was the third time around. I can't remember what happened the first or second time. They don't like to pass youngsters the first time, do they? There are enough cars on the road.Ever experienced road rage?No, why? Have you? I have the music on so I don't really react. It calms me down.What kind of music do you listen to on the road?Toni Braxton.Do people recognise you?Yeah. But I don't take no notice! I just ignore it and smile.Have you ever had sex in a car?No. Never. Why? Have you? You ain't from the Guardian, are you? What's your phone number? I hope you're not a hoax caller. It's the tabloids I worry about.• Patsy Palmer plays Bianca in EastEnders
There are two kinds of people in the world - those who use electronic mail and those who don't. And the more the former rave about it, the more the latter think they're nuts. Until, one day, they in turn take the plunge, and are rapidly transformed into raving enthusiasts. It's more like religious conversion than anything else. Parents whose children have just gone to university are particularly vulnerable because the kids now get e-mail addresses with their room-keys, and while they rarely phone and never write home, they will send e-mail.The web is wonderful but for most people e-mail is what makes the wired world go round. Every day hundreds of millions of messages flash across the globe. Some of them are, or contain, long documents - draft contracts, technical reports, academic papers, chapters of books. But most are more akin to electronic postcards - brief snippets torn from busy lives: a message from a parent to a daughter at university asking when term ends; a reply from same asking for the fare home; a thank-you note after a birthday lunch; a terse inquiry from an editor to a journalist asking where the hell is his copy. You name it, people do it on e-mail.E-mail is a distinctive literary genre - a unique cross between telephone conversations and letters. If you look at an archive of e-mail messages what you find is a string of hasty, informal, subjective, highly personal documents. And if they're not full of typos and grammatical infelicities, they're not genuine. There are people who run their e-mail through a spellchecker, but they're as rare as folks who collect their nail clippings in a bedside jar.The literary form derives from the technology. All e-mail programs present you with a kind of electronic memo-form, with slots for addressee, subject, other recipients, blind copies and an extensible space for your message. You fill in the slots, type the message and click on 'Send' - and your postcard is dispatched into cyberspace.So long as you've got the address of the recipient right, you can be pretty sure he or she will get it when they next log in. When they do, all they have to do is to click on the 'Reply' button and they are then presented with a memo form - but this time the header slots are already filled in with your address, the subject etc. So all they have to do is type a reply and click on 'Send'.Of course there's nothing you can say in an e-mail that you cannot say in a letter or a postcard. But how many of us will dig out a card, write a note, find a stamp and then trudge to the postbox just to say 'Hi! - I was just thinking about you'?To use this magical technology you need an account with an Internet Service Provider (ISP). This will give you:• An electronic mailbox in which incoming messages are stored until you log in to collect them• A unique e-mail address of the general form yourname@ISPname.com (or co.uk)• An e-mail program (sometimes called an e-mailer)An important difference between e-mail and the telephone is that you can only talk to someone if they're available to take your phone call, whereas with e-mail sender and recipient do not have to be logged on at the same time. It's a fire-and-forget system - indeed for many business people that is its main charm.Nor do you have to be connected to the net - with your telephone bill ticking away - while composing and reading e-mail. The best way to do it, in fact, is to compose and read offline, so you should use an e-mail program which allows you to do that. The most popular ones (Pegasus and Eudora and the programs provided with the major browsers - Microsoft's Outlook Express and Netscape's Messenger) all provide this offline facility. They enable you to log in briefly so that the program sends (uploads) your messages and fetches any that are waiting in your mailbox before logging off again.If you don't have your own ISP account but do have regular access to a computer with internet connections (eg at work or at a cybercafe) you can get a free e-mail account with companies like (HotmailandAltaVista. They're great for kids on the move (backpacking through Latin America, for example), and for picking up e-mail without lugging around a laptop. But because all your webmail transactions have to go through the browser, they tend to be rather sloooow. And you have to put up with lots of banner ads. Even in cyberspace there's no such thing as a free lunch.John Naughton is Director of the Press Fellowship Programme atWolfson College, Cambridge. He can be contacted atjjn1@cam.ac.uk
AmazonThe first and, for most people, still the best. Amazon?s vast online bookstore, already extremely successful in the US, recently opened a UK branch. Readers can receive personalised updates by email, submit reviews and rate books, which are usually offered at substantial discounts. This service looks likely to overwhelm several of its competitors.BOLBertelsmann?s online bookstore is about to launch in Europe and the US. The company promises a wide range of books and low prices. Having been rebuffed by Amazon in their bid to buy them, they?ll be going all out to price them out of the market so book buyers can expect to get aggressive prices from both sites.Barnes &amp; NobleThe American bookshop Barnes &amp; Noble will ship books to the UK, although all prices are in dollars, making comparisons with the UK cover price harder to calculate. The unadventurous selections and limited reviews fail to match Amazon?s scope, but it?s still a good source for US editions and imprints.The Internet BookshopAn excitable site, owned by WH Smith, which offers plenty of signed editions and discounts and a few first chapters to sample. Its promotions can be eclectic, and the bookshop is keen to promote new writing and work closely with authors.HeffersThe refined ambience of Heffers ? a Cambridge-based specialist in academic titles, art and architecture ? is impossible to recapture on the web. But clear navigation, few distracting discounts and interest-free monthly credit make this a natural choice for the exiled don on a foreign sabbatical. (Its Oxford counterpart,Blackwellsalso has a good site at  which is worth a look for its reading lists on humanities subjects.)Alphabet StreetAre you feeling in the mood for Summer Love? Spine-chilling? Cultural? And does a 50 per cent discount on the autobiography of Buster (ghosted by his owner Roy Hattersley) intrigue you? Then try London-based Alphabet Street ? or just head straight for Erotica (codenamed the F11 Section, in case you need to zip up your browser in a hurry) and buy Private Memoirs Of A Kentish Headmistress for under a fiver.British MagazinesOrder a subscription to one of 3500 magazines at this site ? including the ones you couldn?t quite reach at the newsagents. Despite the URL, foreign-language titles are available.WaterstonesThe online Waterstones offers a large stock and some modest discounts, just as the branches do ? but as yet there is little incentive to buy over the net rather than in one of the shops.Book PeopleThis is not a pretty site, but offers some very generous discounts: all books are at least half their recommended price, and many are less. Little fiction is available, but Book People is a good choice for audio and cookery titles.BlackstarA Northern Irish online book and music club with a substantial stock, but no discounts; postage is free ?on everything to anywhere?.
To access the internet you need a phone connection with a socket, computer, modem and a subscription to an Internet Service Provider (ISP). You can't directly connect to the internet without an ISP because you'd need a handful of super-computers, known as 'servers', in your home to deal with email, newsgroups and provide a permanent and expensive large gateway to websites.A couple of years ago it was complicated for novices to get online because you had to key in strings of seemingly meaningless numbers next to phrases such as 'IP address', 'DNS' and 'subnet mask'. After haranguing helpline staff, it often took two weeks to finally start surfing the net.Luckily, you don't have to deal with confusing jargon anymore, because ISPs have developed user-friendly software that makes it straightforward. It's easiest to connect if you've just bought a new PC equipped with Windows 98, or an Apple Macintosh iMac. Both of these have internal modems and internet setup software that directly guides you through several steps until you're online. If you already have an internet account and are using your own external modem, it means you'll have to fill out a few extra questions, such as adding your account details and selecting your modem's name and model from a provided list. Despite it all being relatively foolproof, if you have a problem you can ring your ISP's technical support helpline and an expert will guide you through the steps.One of the worst-case scenarios for beginners is using out-of-date hardware, such as a 386 PC with only a 3.5 inch floppy disk drive and a 14.4Kbps modem. Unfortunately, you'll have to face the fact that while surfing the net is possible with this equipment, it's going to be a frustrating and slow experience, so it's better to upgrade or use the PC at your local cybercafé.ModemsModems translate your computer's information so it can be exchanged via your phone line. Computers produce data that consists of digital signals, but your phone line only transmits analogue signals. So the modem needs to convert (modulate) the outgoing digital signals from your PC and turn them into analogue ones. Then it deals with the incoming converted analogue signals from other computers and translates (demodulates) these into digital signals.Most people are now using modems with speeds such as 33.6Kbps and 56Kbps. The higher number means it'll connect and call up web pages quicker, and this speed minimises your phone bill. Kbps is an abbreviation for "kilobits per second" and a 56Kbps modem can send 56,000 bits of data per second. In real-world conditions, even 56Kbps modems usually only download material at 41 to 44Kbps and, because of the way they work, can only upload at a maximum of 33.6Kbps.At the moment, the internet industry is still in its infancy, and there is plenty of incompatible hardware and software around that needs hours of tweaking to make it work. So complete beginners should stick to large brand-name 56Kbps modems, made by companies such as Pace, US Robotics and Hayes. If you simply have to own the latest model, contact your ISP first and check whether it has upgraded its software and hardware to support your new toy. Also, be wary of well-meaning friends who want to give you their old modems - while you might be saving money with a free 14.4Kbps model, you'll lose out in the long run because it will take ages to download any information from the net. To avoid disappointment, follow the crowd. For more advice on modems, visit Modem Help at www.modemhelp.com.Internet Service ProvidersAfter the expense of buying a PC and modem, most people then sign up with the cheapest ISP. After all, they're all selling the same product, aren't they? Well, no, and this is an area where you definitely get what you pay for. Some ISPs, such as Pipex Dial, BT Internet and Demon, have invested in a huge amount of hardware so you have a better chance of getting online quickly and reliably. However, even the best and more expensive ISPs sometimes have a morning or afternoon each month when you can't log on because of technical difficulties.Also, you need to look for a low 'user-to-modem' ratio - that is, don't join an ISP that has suddenly become incredibly popular overnight unless it has invested vast sums in extra hardware. Otherwise, the large number of new subscribers will slow the connection speed and reliability. Also, British Telecom (BT) charges a minimum 5p every time you dial your ISP, which means that if your online connection keeps cutting out, you'll have pay to log on again.Overall, choose an ISP with 24-hour helplines, a net access phone number that is charged at the local call rate, offers at least 5Mb of free web space, five email addresses, automatic filtering of junk email and a free trial disk. If you're keen to have guaranteed net access, it's best to have accounts with two ISPs - say, one that you pay a premium for and another that's free, such as Freeserve. However, be careful when you choose free ISPs, because sometimes they make their money from charging more for phone calls while you're online. When you've made a decision, it's best not to change ISPs too often, as the company's name is usually included in your email address, and this means you'll have to notify everyone with your new details if you sign up with a new ISP.Many new net users are concerned that most ISPs only offer Microsoft's Internet Explorer Version 4 (IE4) as their web browser, and internet magazine reviews often rate Netscape Navigator as being superior. There's no need to agonise over whether you should install IE4, as you can still add Netscape's browser later without any conflicting problems.Several ISPs, such as AOL and LineOne, are slightly more expensive because they provide easy-to-find information such as news services, films, TV guides, financial clubs and celebrity online chat sessions. These are excellent for beginners, but you can find similar content for free on the web. Many ISPs also have 'light-usage' plans, cheap pay-in-advance annual fees and discounts during your first couple of months online, so ring up and check the latest deals. The chart overpage shows internet magazine's ranking of the best ISPs.Getting connected using Windows 98 or 95It's pointless taking you through the steps to connect to the net if you've got Windows 98, because you just go through a quick series of questions and have your credit card handy. For the majority of net users who still have Windows 95, it's also very straightforward.•Close down all the programs you have running on your computer, except Windows 95.•Plug your modem into the phone socket.•Insert your ISP's installation disk, which should start up automatically. If it doesn't, use Windows Explorer to have a look through the CD's files and click on 'setup.exe'.•Click on 'install' and Windows 95's Connection Wizard will ask whether you want to install Internet Explorer 4 (IE4).•Whenever you install IE4, it asks whether you want to add the Windows Desktop Update. It doesn't tell you that this will turn your Windows 95 Desktop into a fancy-looking browser which slows your whole system down, so it's best to just say 'No'.•It asks you where you want to save the ISP's program on your computer. Look through the ready-made folders in Windows Explorer and choose somewhere sensible where you won't forget it, such as 'Program Files'.•It tells you to re-start your computer (that's why you should have closed down all of your other files in Step 1).•When you've switched your computer on, the installation program will automatically start up again to guide you through the final stages. If it has disappeared, check if there's a new icon on your desktop labelled with your ISP's name, and double-click on it.•Click on the 'new account' button and the software will automatically use your modem to dial the ISP.•Choose your username, password and email address. Have a couple of alternatives, as the names you've chosen may have already been taken. You'll have to use these a few minutes later when your account has been set up.•Look for the Internet Explorer icon and click on it to get online.Getting online with iMACApple's latest home computer, the iMac ('i' stand for internet), is designed to get you online within five minutes. You just plug one end of the power lead into the wall and plug the modem lead into a phone socket. As with all Macs, the biggest hurdle is finding the 'on' button - it's in the top right-hand corner of the keyboard. Then the Internet Setup Assistant automatically appears on your screen and asks you a series of simple questions that require 'Yes' and 'No' answers. It can automatically sign you up with three ISPs - BT Internet, LineOne and Direct Connection. If you want to choose another ISP, the iMac starts up your web browser and dials up to take you to the ISP's registration page. The main problem with choosing an Apple Macintosh computer is that 95 per cent of free software you can download from the net is only designed for PCs. Also, you'll need special internet access software and only a handful of ISPs have bothered producing Mac versions.Cotton Ward is features editor atnet magazine
YahooYahoo! is not, strictly speaking, a search engine, but a directory, the first of its kind and still the most comprehensive. It lists sites according to topic and (increasingly) geographic origin. Think of Yahoo! as a giant tree with first ten, then a hundred, then thousands of branches, all with their own links. Also carries news coverage from Reuters and an excellent accommodation finder.NetcenterPerhaps the most visited page on the whole internet, because it comes pre-loaded as the home page on Netscape, the most popular software for browsing the net. Allows you to search using many of the search engines listed here, and has a full site directory (although not quite as clear as Yahoo!'s). Also has news headlines from ABC News.AltavistaAltavista is probably the most efficient and comprehensive search engine - although to get the best results from it, you really need to master the advanced searching techniques. It speaks a number of languages, and will translate any webpage - with curious, but generally intelligible, results. Also has a site directory and carries news headlines.HotbotHotBot Search in different languages, within a specific period, or for sites with audio or video features; the search for an exact phrase (eg Weather in Honduras) is particularly effective. The DirectHit feature will give you the top 10 most visited sites for your keyword. The site directory is slightly quirky.ExcitePossibly the best UK option, Excite - like all search engines - would like you to stay all day, and will let you personalise the homepage to suit your interests. Try Powersearch for an advanced, easily comprehensible search.InfoseekIf you fall off one of Yahoo!'s many branches without finding what you want, try Infoseek's directory instead. This uncluttered and relatively uncommercial site will also allow simple keyword searches.MetacrawlerMetacrawler takes the best results from other search engines and directories. Then it adds a few from the Webcrawler. Surprisingly fast.LycosA reasonably useful engine, with advanced search capabilities.UK PlusRecommended for parents who are worried about their children searching the web unsupervised. All the sites are handpicked, which means that even the most provocative keywords produce harmless results.Deja NewsThe internet isn't just about websites, there are also tens of thousands of discussion groups, or to give them their technical tems - newsgroups. If you're interested in joining a newsgroup (and there are thousands of them), type in a few of the subjects that interest you here, or use the Dejanews directory. Be warned, some newsgroups are less than friendly to newcomers.BigfootLook up anyone's email address or web pages here. Bigfoot is not infallible, but it can usually track down someone you were at school with.Ask JeevesAsk Jeeves a question (where can I buy a car in London?), and he will do his best to answer it intelligently, offering a suggested collection of sites. In truth it's a bit of a gimmick, but it can be eerily intuitive.
To access the internet you need a phone connection with a socket, computer, modem and a subscription to an Internet Service Provider (ISP). You can't directly connect to the internet without an ISP because you'd need a handful of super-computers, known as 'servers', in your home to deal with email, newsgroups and provide a permanent and expensive large gateway to websites.A couple of years ago it was complicated for novices to get online because you had to key in strings of seemingly meaningless numbers next to phrases such as 'IP address', 'DNS' and 'subnet mask'. After haranguing helpline staff, it often took two weeks to finally start surfing the net.Luckily, you don't have to deal with confusing jargon anymore, because ISPs have developed user-friendly software that makes it straightforward. It's easiest to connect if you've just bought a new PC equipped with Windows 98, or an Apple Macintosh iMac. Both of these have internal modems and internet setup software that directly guides you through several steps until you're online. If you already have an internet account and are using your own external modem, it means you'll have to fill out a few extra questions, such as adding your account details and selecting your modem's name and model from a provided list. Despite it all being relatively foolproof, if you have a problem you can ring your ISP's technical support helpline and an expert will guide you through the steps.One of the worst-case scenarios for beginners is using out-of-date hardware, such as a 386 PC with only a 3.5 inch floppy disk drive and a 14.4Kbps modem. Unfortunately, you'll have to face the fact that while surfing the net is possible with this equipment, it's going to be a frustrating and slow experience, so it's better to upgrade or use the PC at your local cybercafé.ModemsModems translate your computer's information so it can be exchanged via your phone line. Computers produce data that consists of digital signals, but your phone line only transmits analogue signals. So the modem needs to convert (modulate) the outgoing digital signals from your PC and turn them into analogue ones. Then it deals with the incoming converted analogue signals from other computers and translates (demodulates) these into digital signals.Most people are now using modems with speeds such as 33.6Kbps and 56Kbps. The higher number means it'll connect and call up web pages quicker, and this speed minimises your phone bill. Kbps is an abbreviation for "kilobits per second" and a 56Kbps modem can send 56,000 bits of data per second. In real-world conditions, even 56Kbps modems usually only download material at 41 to 44Kbps and, because of the way they work, can only upload at a maximum of 33.6Kbps.At the moment, the internet industry is still in its infancy, and there is plenty of incompatible hardware and software around that needs hours of tweaking to make it work. So complete beginners should stick to large brand-name 56Kbps modems, made by companies such as Pace, US Robotics and Hayes. If you simply have to own the latest model, contact your ISP first and check whether it has upgraded its software and hardware to support your new toy. Also, be wary of well-meaning friends who want to give you their old modems - while you might be saving money with a free 14.4Kbps model, you'll lose out in the long run because it will take ages to download any information from the net. To avoid disappointment, follow the crowd. For more advice on modems, visitModem Help.Internet Service ProvidersAfter the expense of buying a PC and modem, most people then sign up with the cheapest ISP. After all, they're all selling the same product, aren't they? Well, no, and this is an area where you definitely get what you pay for. Some ISPs, such as Pipex Dial, BT Internet and Demon, have invested in a huge amount of hardware so you have a better chance of getting online quickly and reliably. However, even the best and more expensive ISPs sometimes have a morning or afternoon each month when you can't log on because of technical difficulties.Also, you need to look for a low 'user-to-modem' ratio - that is, don't join an ISP that has suddenly become incredibly popular overnight unless it has invested vast sums in extra hardware. Otherwise, the large number of new subscribers will slow the connection speed and reliability. Also, British Telecom (BT) charges a minimum 5p every time you dial your ISP, which means that if your online connection keeps cutting out, you'll have pay to log on again.Overall, choose an ISP with 24-hour helplines, a net access phone number that is charged at the local call rate, offers at least 5Mb of free web space, five email addresses, automatic filtering of junk email and a free trial disk. If you're keen to have guaranteed net access, it's best to have accounts with two ISPs - say, one that you pay a premium for and another that's free, such as Freeserve. However, be careful when you choose free ISPs, because sometimes they make their money from charging more for phone calls while you're online. When you've made a decision, it's best not to change ISPs too often, as the company's name is usually included in your email address, and this means you'll have to notify everyone with your new details if you sign up with a new ISP.Many new net users are concerned that most ISPs only offer Microsoft's Internet Explorer Version 4 (IE4) as their web browser, and internet magazine reviews often rate Netscape Navigator as being superior. There's no need to agonise over whether you should install IE4, as you can still add Netscape's browser later without any conflicting problems.Several ISPs, such as AOL and LineOne, are slightly more expensive because they provide easy-to-find information such as news services, films, TV guides, financial clubs and celebrity online chat sessions. These are excellent for beginners, but you can find similar content for free on the web. Many ISPs also have 'light-usage' plans, cheap pay-in-advance annual fees and discounts during your first couple of months online, so ring up and check the latest deals. The chart overpage shows internet magazine's ranking of the best ISPs.Getting connected using Windows 98 or 95It's pointless taking you through the steps to connect to the net if you've got Windows 98, because you just go through a quick series of questions and have your credit card handy. For the majority of net users who still have Windows 95, it's also very straightforward.•Close down all the programs you have running on your computer, except Windows 95.•Plug your modem into the phone socket.•Insert your ISP's installation disk, which should start up automatically. If it doesn't, use Windows Explorer to have a look through the CD's files and click on 'setup.exe'.•Click on 'install' and Windows 95's Connection Wizard will ask whether you want to install Internet Explorer 4 (IE4).•Whenever you install IE4, it asks whether you want to add the Windows Desktop Update. It doesn't tell you that this will turn your Windows 95 Desktop into a fancy-looking browser which slows your whole system down, so it's best to just say 'No'.•It asks you where you want to save the ISP's program on your computer. Look through the ready-made folders in Windows Explorer and choose somewhere sensible where you won't forget it, such as 'Program Files'.•It tells you to re-start your computer (that's why you should have closed down all of your other files in Step 1).•When you've switched your computer on, the installation program will automatically start up again to guide you through the final stages. If it has disappeared, check if there's a new icon on your desktop labelled with your ISP's name, and double-click on it.•Click on the 'new account' button and the software will automatically use your modem to dial the ISP.•Choose your username, password and email address. Have a couple of alternatives, as the names you've chosen may have already been taken. You'll have to use these a few minutes later when your account has been set up.•Look for the Internet Explorer icon and click on it to get online.Getting online with iMACApple's latest home computer, the iMac ('i' stand for internet), is designed to get you online within five minutes. You just plug one end of the power lead into the wall and plug the modem lead into a phone socket. As with all Macs, the biggest hurdle is finding the 'on' button - it's in the top right-hand corner of the keyboard. Then the Internet Setup Assistant automatically appears on your screen and asks you a series of simple questions that require 'Yes' and 'No' answers. It can automatically sign you up with three ISPs - BT Internet, LineOne and Direct Connection. If you want to choose another ISP, the iMac starts up your web browser and dials up to take you to the ISP's registration page. The main problem with choosing an Apple Macintosh computer is that 95 per cent of free software you can download from the net is only designed for PCs. Also, you'll need special internet access software and only a handful of ISPs have bothered producing Mac versions.Cotton Ward is features editor at.net magazine
1. All search engines have the same purpose, but they usually come up with quite different results. Don’t give up after one unsuccessful result.2. Try guessing a URL address if you know exactly what you’re looking for — with companies the simplest options to try are http://www.companyname.com or, if they’re British, http://www.companyname.co.uk.3. Use the search options available with your engine — spending a few minutes looking at the special or ‘advanced’ searches may save you hours of frustrated clicking.4. Inserting an underline (like_this) between words or quotes (‘like this’)
tells the search engine that you’re looking for a phrase, not isolated words.5. Word order matters. Search engines will usually prioritise the first word, so typing in ‘Augustine Saint’ will give better results than ‘Saint Augustine’ — there are plenty of saints, but fewer Augustines.6. Typing in a ‘+’ before a word will make sure that all the pages that are
listed contain that word.7. Don’t use very common words like ‘and’ or ‘the’. They can corrupt your search and produce flawed results.8. Try a Boolean search. It uses very simple logic to specify that you want to include or exclude particular words. For example, Laurel OR Hardy will find pages with Laurel, Hardy or both of them together.9. Similarly, Tandoori NEAR vindaloo will look for the two words within the same paragraph, rather than simply on the same page.10. Typing David Beckham AND NOT Posh Spice will find you a football site rather than a paean to the Spice Girls. (All these link words must be in capitals).
The internet is incomprehensibly big. It dwarfs every other source of information known to humankind. If it were a library, it would contain more than a billion books. If it were a book it would be more than 300,000 kilometres thick. Even more stunning is the fact that it has grown to this size in little more than five years and it is getting bigger by the day.Given its enormity and staggering rate of growth, it is little wonder that when you first get online, trying to find what you want can seem like looking for a very small needle in a very large haystack, while you're wearing boxing gloves, a blindfold and your hands are tied together.Once there was only one way to find what you wanted. You went to a site that allowed you to search the net - a 'search engine' - you typed in a word or phrase and, after a while, you had a list of 10,000 sites spat back at you. The problem was that most of these were often useless and that the site you really wanted was, in fact, tucked away at number 9,386, by which time you'd stopped looking.However, things are getting better - and the reason is that the technically impressive but often unhelpful search engines have matured into 'internet portals'. A portal is basically a site that is meant to act as your gateway to the net, so as well as allowing you to search directly for whatever you want, it will normally give you a full index of sites sorted by categories, and in most cases, it will also have the latest news headlines, sports results (normally US), weather and financial data.Your first step on to the internet will almost certainly probably take you into a 'portal'. When you start up Netscape or Internet Explorer, the software packages that allow you to see the World Wide Web, you will normally be sent directly to a pre-installed home page.It might be Netscape's ownNetcenter, or it might be a site set up by your internet service provider, it doesn't matter - all you need to know is that there are plenty of portals to chose from, all striving to outdo each other with their speed, comprehensiveness and clarity.Yahoo!, the most popular of the portals, lists over 150 others. Different portals suit different people and their different search requirements. Try a few and settle on one or two. Once you get used to them, they become much more useful. And when you find the one you like best, you can change your home page at any time (click on Edit then Preferences in Netscape, or View then Internet Options in Internet Explorer). If you're looking for a particular piece of information, say a biography of Leonardo da Vinci, information on vintage Lambretta scooters or Frank Zappa lyrics, then your best bet is still going to be a straightforward search. But remember to be as specific as possible when searching (give the full Lambretta model name, or the title of the Frank Zappa song as well as his name), and follow our guidelines (see panel) on which search engine might suit you and how to get the most from them.If you're looking for a general type of information or organisation - eg online encyclopaedia, travel agents, florists or car manufacturers, by far your best starting point is Yahoo! which does this job wonderfully, thanks to the way it groups sites together into categories and then allows you to search for those categories. Type in 'flowers' to most search engines and you will get back a massive and unhelpful list of sites. Type it in to Yahoo! and you will be offered a selected collection of categories offering you everything from dried flower manufacturers and florists to the Hothouse Flowers. You can then chose which category suits you best and continue.But the real secret when it comes to using search engines and directories is to know their limits. Given the size of the internet and the fact that most of the general gateways are automated and American, such orthodox searches will overlook some sites. To find what you want, you will often you need to dig even deeper into the information haystack. The internet retains much of its initial idealistic urge to spread its links around, passing on sites and tips. Almost every site will have a 'links', 'related links', 'directories', or a 'sites-we-like' section, giving links you can click on to get to other like-minded, or differently-minded, sites. In other words, the first site you go to might not be the one you're looking for, but it might give you a link to the site you're looking for.If you have a specialist interest, from playing cricket to playing the clarinet, you should be able to find a site with many more links on that subject than you would find on a general directory.For instance,Football Pages UKhas hundreds of links to different football club sites, official and unofficial, across Britain, while onLawcrawleryou can search for global legal information, and if you want to find music sites then you could do much worse than head toUnfurled.Even when you're in a site, your search may not be over. Some sites contain thousands of pages. Look for links to 'Help', 'About this site' and the 'Site map' to help you find what you want within them.The biggest problem after finding something you like, though, is finding it again. Which is why you should make an effort to regularly save the sites you like into your Bookmarks (if you use Netscape) or Favourites (if you use Internet Explorer). To do this, just press Ctrl-D when you're on a page you like, and it will be saved into your personal list of sites.It might all seem daunting at first, but after a few hours clicking around, you should realise that although the net will still be incomprehensibly big, it shouldn't be incomprehensible.
CelebritiesDouglas Adams:76206.2507@compuserve.comTom Clancy:tomclancy@aol.comQuentin Crisp:HRHQCrisp@aol.comMacaulay Culkin:culkin@writeme.comClint Eastwood:rowdiyates@aol.comBob Hope:bobhope@bobhope.comBob Hoskins:75300.1313@compuserve.comCourtney Love:lilacs00@aol.comMadonna:Madonna@wbr.comDemi Moore:Demim2@aol.comToni Morrison:morrison@pucc.princeton.eduBob Mortimer:bobmortimer@hotmail.comMichael Stipe: :stipey@aol.comOprah Winfrey: :harpo@interaccess.comGovernmentTony Blair does not have an email address for public disclosure, but there is adiscussion areaon the Number 10 site.HM Treasury: :enquiries@hm-treasury.gov.ukHome Office:gen.ho@gtnet.gov.ukBill Clinton:president@whitehouse.govHillary Clinton:first.lady@whitehouse.govAl Gore:vice.president@whitehouse.gov
Sainsbury'sSainsbury’s are trialling online ordering through 26 stores across the country. So if you're near the following shops you're in luck: Watford Dome, Herts; Kenton, Weedon Rd, Northampton; Denton, Manchester; Castle Court, Bristol; Purley Way, Croydon; Chase Lane, NE London; St Clares, Hampton; Cold Harbour Lane, Hayes (Middlesex); Monks Cross, York; Chester; Enfield, Middlesex; West Hove; Fulham, W London; Milton Keynes; Bamber Bridge, Preston; Fosse Park, Leicester; Letchworth, Herts; Broadcut, Fareham; Bybrook, Kent; Heyfordhill, Oxford; Darnley, Glasgow; Marshall Lake, Solihull; East Mayne, Basildon; Beckenham, London; Selby Rd, Leeds; Chaddesdon, DerbyTescoTesco will deliver to you if you're in Roundhey in Leeds, Hammersmith or a select group of London suburbs (Osterley Park, Romford, Purley, Lea Valley, Colney Hatch, Hayes, Sunbury and Sutton).Food FerryYou can try Food Ferry for home delivery of groceriesOrganic food federationAn umbrella organisation for a range of UK-based organic food producers. Delivers information on a range of organic produce, a list of shops in your area and a selection of online ordering services that will deliver.FromagesA whole site devoted to French cheeses (in English). Order cheeses direct from France, swap cheese tips online or join the international cheese club.Drinks DirectGift specialists that stock cases of wine, speciality beers, spirits as well as chocolates and luxury food. Boasts an impressive two-day delivery time anywhere in the UK.Hailsham CellarsWines by the case or the bottle from around the world, plus quality ports. Free UK delivery with orders over £80 with an extra charge if you want your wine delivered that day.
Entertainment ExpressA good serviceable site selling videos (and CDs) at high-street prices. No charge for postage and packing in the UK.Reel.comSo long as your video is set to play US format tapes you can buy from Reel.com's vast stock of 85,000 movies. If you want help, you can go to Movie Matches, type in your favourite film and get a list of suggestions.ScriptshopA vast collection of scripts, in their original typed format, can be ordered from this site, ranging from The Magnificent Ambersons to Straw Dogs to The Way We Were.  Prices range from $15-20The Internet Movie DatabaseCovers over 170,000 titles and has at least 2 million filmographies. Openings, news   and coming soon features are on offer, and there's even the option for insular types to switch to the UK site (uk.imdb.com)Film UnlimitedPreview of the Guardian and Observer’s new film sit –set to offer nationwide listings, an engine to match you up with a video to suit your mood, profiles of actors and directors and a pithy column, called Strictly Hush Hush, together with a link to the Internet Movie Database.Aint-it-cool-newsThis is the hippest underground movie site. It tracks and reviews pre-release sneak previews of major studio movies, often shown in an unfinished state to gauge audience reaction after which they are sometimes recut or even have portions reshot. It goes against every industry protocol to review a preview.CoronaComing Attractions: A compendium of constantly updated rumour, gossip and fact about a huge selection of films in development or production.Script-o-ramaLinks to sites where you can download scripts. An amazingly catholic selection ranging from 'Titanic' to an early draft of '2001' to various unused drafts of the 'Alien' series..
Sadly, as is still too often the case on the net, the best sites for clothing (Gap, J Crew, etc) are American and don't ship to the UK. We've listed an eclectic selection of the sites which do cater for the UK, to give you an idea of the range.APCThe deeply fashionable clothing label APC gives a choice of French, English or Japanese text on this minimalist site. The Soviet rather than chic production values make it hard to see what you're getting so it probably works best for diehard APC fans who can scroll through the entire catalogue (wool and silk sweater 600FF, oiled jeans 720FF).Bras DirectAn efficient and well-designed site, Bras Direct is also keen to keep the voyeurs happy, with leering close-ups of  Helena Christiansen and other lightly clad lovelies. Don't be put off though, it's still a godsend if you're an awkward size or want a wider range than you'll find in most high streets.BroraOffering stylish cashmere sweaters at affordable prices, Brora's straightforward site is well worth a look. Until Gap offers its BabyGap luxe range in the UK, Brora's cashmere baby cardigans (£39 in berry red, pink, blue or white) will  remain the smartest present for new parents. The site has had teething problems but these should be resolved by the time you read this.La RedouteA cheap but chic French clothes company, La Redoute is particularly good for childrenswear. For ease of reference, their site is probably best viewed with a copy of the vast catalogue, but they make it worthwhile to go online as they give a 10% discount on all internet orders.Lands EndOne of the still too-few big US sites which handles non-US customers, Lands End will ship any of their clothes to the UK. You can take advantage of the larger stock and internet-only offers available here.Piece UniqueSecondhand chic, web style. This is the site to track down those new and vintage  pieces at what apparently counts for discount prices in the rocketing market for secondhand designer clothes. It pools the best new and secondhand clothing/accessories from resale shops around the world; current finds include a vintage Pucci silk jumpsuit at $725 and a new Prada blue trouser suit, normally retailing at $900, here $598.
CdnowThe biggest music retailer on the net. This is based in the US, which means high shipping costs, but if you buy in bulk it can still be cheaper than nipping down to your local Our Price.Interactive music and video store (IMVS)Earnest attempt to deliver a UK site with the magnitude of Cdnow. Although IMVS falls short, it does offer a some good discounts and has exceptional jazz and roots sections.TicketmasterProbably the best place to start should you want tickets to any live music event (or theatre, or film, or dance...) in the UK. Searchable by area, artist or venue.CductiveCductive is another US site, but does offers reasonable rates for the UK. Especially good for electronica and hip hop and it even allows the compilation of personalised CDs.Classical Music UKA bit basic, but still the best classical music site in the UK. Listings, news and the chance to purchase CDs via Music Boulevard's online catalogue. This is a fairly new site so there are some gaps. Promising.GoodnoiseAnother good US site full of downloadable music, much of it free. Goodnoise acts more like a record company than a record shop, as it specialises in providing space for unsigned acts. They even claim to have their own A&amp;R department.NetRadioThe main alternative to choosing you own music on the web is having someone choose it for you. NetRadio offers over 150 free audio channels ranging from classical to hardcore. Lots of free services but selected features do require your credit card number. You'll need the Real Player (below) to listen.Jazz CentralStationThe definitive site for jazz on the web, Jazz Central Station offers not only the chance to buy jazz online but also news, chat and good listings.Mp3.comMp3 (short for MPEG-1, layer 3) is both a way of compressing CD-quality audio files to one tenth of their normal size and has the music industry running scared because it makes piracy so easy. This site has over 600,000 titles, music news and all the software you need to start making your own MP3s and playing other peoples.RealaudioReal Player is the software that allows you to listen to music in 'real time' experience without an initial download. Lets you try before you buy in most music stores, and to listen to online radio stations.
ExpediaIf the fact that Expedia is owned by Microsoft doesn’t deter you, this site has a great deal of useful car rental, flight and hotel information - although you should look elsewhere for cheap flights.Last MinuteThe way to revive a flagging relationship: take your partner to the theatre tonight, book a last-minute break, or send them flowers. Not for the unspontaneous or, equally, the dangerously impetuous.Bargain HolidaysLast-minute flights, holidays and breaks - basically direct access to the databases used by bucket shops. Experience the opiate-like rush of cheap holiday deal searches.TravelocityRegistering with Travelocity allows you to access SABRE - the flight database used by travel agents. You can also find and book holidays, rent a car or investigate the special deals.RailtrackDon’t abuse another Rail Enquiry Line assistant. Plan your journey here instead, at the pleasingly functional Railtrack site. According to the feedback, a ‘massive majority’ (actually 45%) of users find the site excellent, so it will almost certainly be more enjoyable than your journey.LeisurehuntFrom a bed and breakfast in Budapest to a weekend cottage in the Cotswolds, Leisurehunt has the lot, all searchable, with the option for online booking. Frighteningly efficient.
Homes-on-lineDon’t be fooled by the awkward look of this site, it is functional enough and packed with all sorts of information on buying, selling, letting and renting either property or land.London Property NewsWhile the majority of online property services suffer from either a lack of stock or are shackled to a single agent, this large functional site works best because it offers a range of properties from different sources. Easily searchable and with a good rental section.Mortgages onlineAdvice site, provided by Independent Financial Advice (IFA) online, dedicated to providing mortgage advice. Large site with lots of detail for all kinds of borrowers and worth it alone for the mortgage calculator.HousewebHard-working site for both house buyers and sellers. Good advice pages and lists of recommended solicitors and surveyors. Sections on holiday homes and house exchanges.UpMyStreetRecommended resource for anyone attempting to buy a house in the UK. Comprehensive list of property prices, searchable by postcode or address plus invaluable information on local doctors and schools.
JobsUnlimitedThe Guardian's online job section includes a range of useful employment tools as well as over 2000 jobs. 'Career manager' allows uses to personalise the site, lists of employment consultancies are included as well as a range of features taken from the paper.Reed EmploymentOver 2500 UK jobs online, plus good features like a regional salary calculator. Particularly good for accountancy, secretarial and insurance.MonsterboardSimply the first and last word in international jobs. There are over 50,000 of them, plus a good management system to help users find the right one. Details of franchises and self-employment opportunities are also featured.Recruit MediaThis fast-expanding employment agency specialises in media recruitment, it is also one of the slickest employment sites in the UK. Jobs in creative, marketing and sales, plus news for freelancers and details of training courses.Office AngelsJobs from the 50 or so branches of Office Angels, plus employment news. Good for City jobs but unfortunately this site only allows you to search by area, and not profession, salary scale etc.Gordon YatesCity specialists. Offers interview advice and has details of vacancies in and around the City, but the best bit is the web CV generator. A shame that a site as good as this does not cover the whole of the UK.PROSALThis tidy site for IT recruitment may not interest everybody. Worth a look, though, for its email alert service which allows users to set parameters for the field they're interested in and then 'alerts' them the moment it comes online.listing jobs and careersUK employment websitesVery good links page. Simple but user-friendly and including information on vacancies, newspaper articles, entrepreneurial opportunities and a dubious section entitled 'business scams'.TopjobsFunctional comprehensive site with good links, a host of blue-chip clients (including BT and Esso) and a section containing international vacancies.
Starting pointsFindA simply and clearly laid out site that has links to every financial services site in the UK. It gives listings for investments, insurance, banking, loans and mortgages.MoneyeXtraLaunched late last year, MoneyeXtra is produced in conjunction with the Microsoft Money 99 software and provides a particularly good and flexible portfolio tracker which includes current and savings accounts, unit trusts, shares and life funds.FTQuickenThe Quicken version of the Microsoft site is run in partnership with the Financial Times. Rather more sophisticated than the MoneyeXtra site, it can look a little daunting initially but it's impressively comprehensive. Both sites offer links to financial service providers.Investing - buying onlineElectronic Share InformationUncluttered UK share trading service offering portfolios and plenty of FTSE-related informationCharles SchwabOne of the first online stockbrokers in the US, Schwab's UK site allows British investors to invest in either UK or US equities. Head to the Europe section when you arrive at the front page.Investing – informationYahoo FinanceSolid markets and stock data, continuously updated.Motley FoolThe Motley Fool gives irreverent advice on investment and finance. It has a strong following from the registered 'Fools' who use its bulletin boards, customisable portfolios and Fool's School features.EdgarThinking of investing in a US company? This site will provide all the details of its market performance, activities and directors that you might ever need to know.NasdaqNASDAQ is keen to attract UK investors, and their site will guide you through the share performance and company profiles of every company in the index.InsuranceScreen TradeMany of the insurance companies have set up online operations but you can save time by using Screentrade, the world's first online insurance broker, which allows you to compare deals from several insurers for car, household and travel insurance and then book online.MiscellaneousFull Currency ConverterOf course, you can't exchange your notes at a virtual bureau de change yet. But you can find out how much your pound, rouble or Ethiopian birr is worth in 177 other currencies.EmuNetIf you're serious about the EMU - and it's hard to be anything else - then this site will be indispensable for your research.
You have a computer and you want internet access. Cotton Ward takes you through a few simple stepsTo access the internet you need a phone connection with a socket, computer, modem and a subscription to an Internet Service Provider (ISP). You can't directly connect to the internet without an ISP because you'd need a handful of super-computers, known as 'servers', in your home to deal with email, newsgroups and provide a permanent and expensive large gateway to websites.A couple of years ago it was complicated for novices to get online because you had to key in strings of seemingly meaningless numbers next to phrases such as 'IP address', 'DNS' and 'subnet mask'. After haranguing helpline staff, it often took two weeks to finally start surfing the net.Luckily, you don't have to deal with confusing jargon anymore, because ISPs have developed user-friendly software that makes it straightforward. It's easiest to connect if you've just bought a new PC equipped with Windows 98, or an Apple Macintosh iMac. Both of these have internal modems and internet setup software that directly guides you through several steps until you're online. If you already have an internet account and are using your own external modem, it means you'll have to fill out a few extra questions, such as adding your account details and selecting your modem's name and model from a provided list. Despite it all being relatively foolproof, if you have a problem you can ring your ISP's technical support helpline and an expert will guide you through the steps.One of the worst-case scenarios for beginners is using out-of-date hardware, such as a 386 PC with only a 3.5 inch floppy disk drive and a 14.4Kbps modem. Unfortunately, you'll have to face the fact that while surfing the net is possible with this equipment, it's going to be a frustrating and slow experience, so it's better to upgrade or use the PC at your local cybercafé.ModemsModems translate your computer's information so it can be exchanged via your phone line. Computers produce data that consists of digital signals, but your phone line only transmits analogue signals. So the modem needs to convert (modulate) the outgoing digital signals from your PC and turn them into analogue ones. Then it deals with the incoming converted analogue signals from other computers and translates (demodulates) these into digital signals.Most people are now using modems with speeds such as 33.6Kbps and 56Kbps. The higher number means it'll connect and call up web pages quicker, and this speed minimises your phone bill. Kbps is an abbreviation for "kilobits per second" and a 56Kbps modem can send 56,000 bits of data per second. In real-world conditions, even 56Kbps modems usually only download material at 41 to 44Kbps and, because of the way they work, can only upload at a maximum of 33.6Kbps.At the moment, the internet industry is still in its infancy, and there is plenty of incompatible hardware and software around that needs hours of tweaking to make it work. So complete beginners should stick to large brand-name 56Kbps modems, made by companies such as Pace, US Robotics and Hayes. If you simply have to own the latest model, contact your ISP first and check whether it has upgraded its software and hardware to support your new toy. Also, be wary of well-meaning friends who want to give you their old modems - while you might be saving money with a free 14.4Kbps model, you'll lose out in the long run because it will take ages to download any information from the net. To avoid disappointment, follow the crowd. For more advice on modems, visit Modem Help at www.modemhelp.com.Internet Service ProvidersAfter the expense of buying a PC and modem, most people then sign up with the cheapest ISP. After all, they're all selling the same product, aren't they? Well, no, and this is an area where you definitely get what you pay for. Some ISPs, such as Pipex Dial, BT Internet and Demon, have invested in a huge amount of hardware so you have a better chance of getting online quickly and reliably. However, even the best and more expensive ISPs sometimes have a morning or afternoon each month when you can't log on because of technical difficulties.Also, you need to look for a low 'user-to-modem' ratio - that is, don't join an ISP that has suddenly become incredibly popular overnight unless it has invested vast sums in extra hardware. Otherwise, the large number of new subscribers will slow the connection speed and reliability. Also, British Telecom (BT) charges a minimum 5p every time you dial your ISP, which means that if your online connection keeps cutting out, you'll have pay to log on again.Overall, choose an ISP with 24-hour helplines, a net access phone number that is charged at the local call rate, offers at least 5Mb of free web space, five email addresses, automatic filtering of junk email and a free trial disk. If you're keen to have guaranteed net access, it's best to have accounts with two ISPs - say, one that you pay a premium for and another that's free, such as Freeserve. However, be careful when you choose free ISPs, because sometimes they make their money from charging more for phone calls while you're online. When you've made a decision, it's best not to change ISPs too often, as the company's name is usually included in your email address, and this means you'll have to notify everyone with your new details if you sign up with a new ISP.Many new net users are concerned that most ISPs only offer Microsoft's Internet Explorer Version 4 (IE4) as their web browser, and internet magazine reviews often rate Netscape Navigator as being superior. There's no need to agonise over whether you should install IE4, as you can still add Netscape's browser later without any conflicting problems.Several ISPs, such as AOL and LineOne, are slightly more expensive because they provide easy-to-find information such as news services, films, TV guides, financial clubs and celebrity online chat sessions. These are excellent for beginners, but you can find similar content for free on the web. Many ISPs also have 'light-usage' plans, cheap pay-in-advance annual fees and discounts during your first couple of months online, so ring up and check the latest deals. The chart overpage shows internet magazine's ranking of the best ISPs.Getting connected using Windows 98 or 95It's pointless taking you through the steps to connect to the net if you've got Windows 98, because you just go through a quick series of questions and have your credit card handy. For the majority of net users who still have Windows 95, it's also very straightforward.•Close down all the programs you have running on your computer, except Windows 95.•Plug your modem into the phone socket.•Insert your ISP's installation disk, which should start up automatically. If it doesn't, use Windows Explorer to have a look through the CD's files and click on 'setup.exe'.•Click on 'install' and Windows 95's Connection Wizard will ask whether you want to install Internet Explorer 4 (IE4).•Whenever you install IE4, it asks whether you want to add the Windows Desktop Update. It doesn't tell you that this will turn your Windows 95 Desktop into a fancy-looking browser which slows your whole system down, so it's best to just say 'No'.•It asks you where you want to save the ISP's program on your computer. Look through the ready-made folders in Windows Explorer and choose somewhere sensible where you won't forget it, such as 'Program Files'.•It tells you to re-start your computer (that's why you should have closed down all of your other files in Step 1).•When you've switched your computer on, the installation program will automatically start up again to guide you through the final stages. If it has disappeared, check if there's a new icon on your desktop labelled with your ISP's name, and double-click on it.•Click on the 'new account' button and the software will automatically use your modem to dial the ISP.•Choose your username, password and email address. Have a couple of alternatives, as the names you've chosen may have already been taken. You'll have to use these a few minutes later when your account has been set up.•Look for the Internet Explorer icon and click on it to get online.Getting online with iMACApple's latest home computer, the iMac ('i' stand for internet), is designed to get you online within five minutes. You just plug one end of the power lead into the wall and plug the modem lead into a phone socket. As with all Macs, the biggest hurdle is finding the 'on' button - it's in the top right-hand corner of the keyboard. Then the Internet Setup Assistant automatically appears on your screen and asks you a series of simple questions that require 'Yes' and 'No' answers. It can automatically sign you up with three ISPs - BT Internet, LineOne and Direct Connection. If you want to choose another ISP, the iMac starts up your web browser and dials up to take you to the ISP's registration page. The main problem with choosing an Apple Macintosh computer is that 95 per cent of free software you can download from the net is only designed for PCs. Also, you'll need special internet access software and only a handful of ISPs have bothered producing Mac versions.Cotton Ward is features editor at.net magazine
This site is pretty well put together and easy to find your way around. As well as the usual corporate information and flight schedules it has three really useful features - a flight wizard, a car hire wizard and an accommodation wizard.Great for organising a trip: type in what you want and back it comes with matching suggestions which you can book online there and then.Slower than talking to a travel agent or using the telephone?Maybe, but much more personalised and the trip I was sorting out - a family skiing visit to New Hampshire - came together on Boxing Day and the Net was about the only resource available which allowed us to research options and agree where to go.I first started using the Internet in 1993. At that time, it was text-based and for enthusiasts only. By 1994 it had become the hottest topic of conversation in the telecommunications industry.It was clear to all of us that it would have a revolutionary impact but we weren't sure how or quite why.Now I am convinced it will revolutionise many businesses and quickly.This is the reason we launched Egg. In financial services the basic economics of doing business by the Internet are compelling - perhaps one-tenth of the costs of a conventional approach and this translates into lower charges and better rates for the customer.I believe that two-thirds of all financial services purchases or transactions will be done via electronic means in 15 years' time.The Internet generation (ie young people who have grown up with computers, professionals who use computers at work and other people at or near retirement who have discovered a new interest with the Internet) love to do business this way.The Internet is above all a medium which connects human beings together, allowing individuals to communicate, groups to collaborate and people to gather together in like-minded "communities".The Internet is also "uncontrollable" and this allows for the full range and expression of human creativity which means its development is rapid and its future unknowable - you just have to invent a business which is capable of living in such a world, hold on tight and ride the wave.• Mike Harris is chief executive of Egg, Prudential's new direct financial services company.
Internet Service Providers and Search EnginesThese mix gateways to other sites with their own information and guides. However, many sites are designed for American investors and often carry large amounts of irrelevant information for British investors.www.aol.co.ukAol, the world's biggest ISP, provides its own extensive content as well as gateways to other sites. Its money pages include guides to investments and markets, as well as business news feeds from Reuters and The Economist.www.yahoo.co.ukYahoo's money pages offer comprehensive business news and investment information but little guidance on other products such as mortgages and pensions.www.lycos.co.ukA friendly personal finance page offers guides to most financial services products. It also promises "Top 10 links" to mortgages, credit cards and Peps, but these do not rank the products and simply give the user a link to a product provider. Market information is supplied by Bloomberg.www.excite.co.ukExcite carries money and investing news supplied by the Financial Times and Quicken, a personal finance software provider. Also on offer are a window which keeps you updated on the value of your personal share investments and links to pages which promise to find the cheapest mortgage.Independent personal finance sitesThe two long-established sites are Moneyworld and Interactive Investor. Last year a major site, Moneyextra, came online.www.iii.co.ukInteractive Investor claims to be the UK's biggest personal finance site, with 150,000 registered subscribers. It aims to be a one-stop shop for private investors, who can e-mail questions to a panel of independent financial advisers. This week it launched a "Pep Centre" giving performance data, news and features on a wide range of funds.www.moneyworld.co.ukThe first major personal finance site and one of the easiest to use. Aside from sharedealing, mortgages, pensions and Peps it includes home and motor insurance and a travel club with 37,000 registered users.www.moneyextra.co.ukA co-venture between Microsoft and The Exchange, a service which collates information from all the major insurers in the UK to provide quotes for brokers. It boasts a powerful ability to provide comparative financial product information and quotes.Product provider sites Most product providers have their own web site, ranging from a few simple information pages to sites which can carry out transactions totally on the Net. Fidelity Investments and Eagle Star Direct are widely recognised as the two most advanced.
The launch of ISAs on April 6 is prompting investment managers to encourage investors to switch to the Internet when buying and selling a fund.In the USA one-third of mutual funds (the US equivalent of unit trusts) are bought or sold via the Net, but in the UK the number is miniscule. Hoping to boost that number is Fidelity Investments,www.fidelity.co.uk, the first investment manager to set up an ISA where investors can buy, top up, switch and sell units entirely over the Internet, using switch and delta cards. The Fidelity ISA account will also give investors an at-a-glance valuation of their fund on a daily basis.A major disincentive to using the Internet to buy financial products is that they can still be bought more cheaply using other methods such as direct telephone providers or discount brokers. For its ISA net account, Fidelity is giving Net buyers a 2.25 per cent discount off its usual 3.25 per cent initial charge. However, a Fidelity fund may be bought even more cheaply from a discount broker which usually discounts the entire initial charge.NetPep, which can be found atwww.netpep.co.uk, claims to offer a no-frills, low-cost index-tracking Pep where nearly every part of the transaction is handled online. Its charges are 1 per cent initially and 0.35 per cent annually, which, it says, puts it among the cheapest of the trackers. The money is managed by Barclays Global Investors.
I admit that I've been dragged into modernity kicking and screaming. I'm a reluctant Internet user; I only access it occasionally for specific reference points. So I wasn't aware of this site, but I did find it useful.The Holocaust is an important subject to access on the Internet because of its part in modern history and because it touches on issues of tolerance and prejudice. This site specifically gives the personal aspect of Holocaust history. It promotes understanding through witness accounts, testimonies of the children of survivors, and even artwork by modern school children, some of whom clearly have a good grasp of what the Holocaust means.It's an interesting example of the way in which strangers share intensely personal emotions over the Internet. I would like to have seen more of the wider factual and historical picture to complement that.I wonder about the ability of sites like this to promote racial tolerance. It's easy to feel sorry for 6 million dead Jews while staring at a screen. But if afterwards you still can't get on with a Sikh or Hindu on the high street, the screen experience hasn't been translated into real life. The Internet shouldn't be used as a substitute for meeting real people.I worry about the volume of abusive material on the Internet, not just anti-Jew but racist and sexist. That television, books and radio should have to conform to the Race Relations Act while the Internet does not is wrong.The danger of DIY websites is that you can't always tell who is behind them. I do feel that all sorts of nonsense is being put out on the Internet because it's a quick and easy means of self-promotion for people who can't get published any other way.• Jonathan Romain is rabbi of Maidenhead Synagogue.
My Tiny Life: Crime and Passion in a Virtual Worldby Julian Dibbell 336pp, Fourth Estate, £16.99You are in a non-world. No light, no scenery, no passage of time; just you. Growing tired of eternal nullity, you create a room for yourself to stand in. You write a subroutine to cycle through daytime, evening and night. You add a few more rooms, some furniture, maybe a pool in the backyard. Now what? There is only one thing left to do. You sit down at your newly made desk and start sending out invitations.So began LambdaMOO, a type of upmarket Internet chat room that allows participants to create their own surroundings and, crucially, their 'character description': they can be any size, shape, gender, race or species they choose. Physical laws go out the window; a mansion could float in a dewdrop if it was programmed to. Newcomers who visit this virtual masked ball find themselves in possession of complete control over both their environment and the anonymous character they play: total freedom and creative power, free of responsibility and limited only by one's imagination and ability to stay online for hours at a time. Is it any wonder that jobs and relationships have been lost to the addictive power of the MOO? Julian Dibbell, a writer for the Village Voice, began to drop in on LambdaMOO in the guise of Dr Bombay, 'a walking optical illusion'. Before long his spare time was sucked up by MOO-ing. As he became more involved in the social aspects of the virtual universe - and many people worldwide log on simply to chat and crack lame jokes - Dibbell realised that he was witnessing nothing less than the birth of a society from scratch. Enchanted, he decided to devote three months exclusively to LambdaMOO, and the result is My Tiny Life, a chronicle of the rapid and tumultuous growth of a tightly-knit community whose members had never met and never would.LambdaMOO was initially a peaceful place, revolving around the hot tub where visitors gathered to talk inconsequentially. It was a character the author calls 'the infamous Mr Bungle' who shattered the calm of LambdaMOO by staging a virtual 'rape' of several female characters with the help of a 'voodoo doll' program that allowed him to control their on-screen characters like puppets. One woman, for example, was startled to watch herself grab a steak knife, 'as if against her will,' and put it somewhere rather unusual. Mr Bungle was consequently the victim of a virtual murder when LambdaMOO's creators decided he was no longer welcome. The subsequent debate on power and its abuses was ferocious, marking the unreal universe's first step towards becoming a regulated society.Prolonged exposure to the Internet always seems to result in a loss of perspective, and Julian Dibbell is not immune. He perceived the raging controversy over 'the Bungle affair' to be as intense as Dangerous Liaisons. Indeed, his writing would have suited either affair: the upheaval in his beloved MOO is described in only the finest syntax and the most poetic of rhetorical devices. Sometimes it feels as though he has translated My Tiny Life from Latin. This is unfortunate, because Internet words coined by programmers are often self-consciously goofy, and Dibbell's high-flown meditations are repeatedly brought to earth with a bump by words such as 'wizardocracy' and 'newting'. It is hard not to laugh when he devotes one of his more histrionic chapters to the 'mythic moment' that was the Schmoo Wars, which he sees as a turning point on the scale of the Napoleonic. (Even when told by several people who were there at the time, he cannot quite bring himself to believe that it was, as they said, 'no big deal').There is something endearing, though, in an author who becomes so deeply involved in his research. Dibbell gives us brief peeks at his real life, but his cramped Lower East Side apartment and troubled relationship are pale and dull to read about - and, he makes clear, to exist in - compared to the moonlit beaches and exotic characters of LambdaMOO.One eloquent soul suggests that 'we, the people of the MOO, were all characters in a great, multi-faceted novel of our construction'. This is evident from the first page of My Tiny Life, which suffers from the same fate as so many books about the Internet: it is only interesting to people who have already done what it is describing, and, fatally, it is much less interesting than it would be to actually go out and do what it is describing. Plodding from page to page is tedious when the author can't stop enthusing about how marvellous it is to live inside an interactive, ever-changing novel in which you are the main character. Why keep reading? Join the herd and MOO! LambdaMOO can be reached by telnetting to lambda.moo.mud.org:8888
