I'm not sure who it was that first said "When you are able to keep your head while others around you are losing theirs, you probably haven't fully understood the situation" (the web gave me three different names, helpfully) but you could imagine they were working under some stress at the time. Maybe their office flooded and ruined all of their records. Or burned. Or exploded. Thing is, when something dire like that happens there's always some insufferable optimist on the horizon to tell you it could be worse, you mustn't grumble or - the platitude designed to get right up the nostrils of the listener in record time - worse things happen at sea. People actually come out with that after a flood.And annoyingly, the chirpy contingent can be right. Georgine Thorburn, managing director of Document SOS in London, specialises in recovering the unrecoverable and explains what happened to a writer client. "It was a man and wife, both writers, and they had a fire," she says. Everything they had was on paper, not backed up using any technology, so it looked as though all was lost. It started to look a bit more like all was lost when the fire brigade stuck the still-smouldering papers in a bucket, took them into the garden and soaked them just to make sure. "We dug up the garden," says Thorburn, "found the documents, cleaned them up and returned them - he was in tears, you can imagine, after thinking he'd lost five years' work."The trick in this instance was having a loss assessor rather than a loss adjustor on the scene, whose brief is to fight the corner of the claimant rather than to represent the insurance company. It also helped that the assessor knew of Document SOS which in turn understood that smoke and water damage did not amount to full obliteration of a document, once expert cleaning was applied.Fire is actually a pretty good way of getting rid of a lot of information, but it doesn't have to be as dramatic as a full-blown conflagration. Kris Butler worked in the public sector for a department he prefers not to name and was distinctly overwhelmed when he came across the literal rather than proverbial smoke coming out of the computer scenario. "It was a manufacturer's design fault - the hard drive burned out," he says. Hard drives burning out is one thing; taking two years of data down with them is another entirely.Butler's first reaction was to go to a disaster recovery specialist, at which point he learned the value of caveat emptor and shopping around "They took a lot of money from us and didn't restore anything," he says. Fortunately he had worked with another specialist, Kroll Ontrack, before. "The way public sector works is that it can take time to agree finance: once we'd got over that they had all of the data back to us on CD within a few days." The money paid was more than offset by the recovery of the data, he says. "It was contact details and confidential lists - losing two years of it would have been very serious."By now many regular readers will be shaking heads, clicking tongues and wondering why everyone doesn't just back up efficiently. The problem is that they do, and it doesn't always work. Paul Gillespie, partner at executive recruitment company Gillamore Stephens, was confident that his organisation's tape back-ups would suffice were there ever to be a problem. Yes, they backed up. Then the network server killed itself and they were into back-up territory - and it was here that the trouble started."Not all of the data was there, and it was very laborious restoring it," Gillespie says. In fact the process took four days, but this meant four days without a working business. "Our business runs on emails, databases and contacts - we were paralysed."The answer was twofold: first the company moved right away from dependence on a single server, and second it outsourced the duplication of its data to a company called ImperaData. Even if data is lost again, it won't take days to back it up. "I was a little nervous at first because there weren't any physical tapes to see for the back-ups, but once we'd had a practice and I could see it working we were quite reassured."The system also allows for rollbacks, which has been useful: "Only a couple of weeks ago someone over-wrote a customer-critical document and we were able to roll the systems back to two hours previously before the overwriting took place so we had the document back."Another company that had taken some back-up precautions is internet marketing agency Neutralize, whose eight-person head office in Cornwall suffered inevitably from the flooding that happened in November last year. Actually the November stuff wasn't so bad, says managing director Lucy Cokes. "It happened on a weekday at around 10.00am so people could see the water rising outside and were unplugging their PCs and basically throwing them upstairs." Throwing a system upstairs isn't in many technical manuals but scoff not, it worked - until the second bout of flooding arrived on New Year's Day. The servers were still on the second floor so no damage was done there, but much of the paperwork was irretrievable. "The insurance company basically said it was a write-off; it was damaged by water that might have been sewage-contaminated. The cleaner documents were rescued: "We became very good at ironing documents - someone basically spent two weeks doing just that," says Cokes. PC damage was mostly peripheral - the power supplies shorted out but luckily the data remained intact.What's interesting about the Neutralize case is that in spite of the procedural pain endured by the business, its use of technology ensured that its customers didn't notice any major service interruption. Its turnover has increased on last year regardless of the problem, it has been recruiting and it has retained 97% of its clients. "We kept working out of someone's home, we had an ISDN line and used that to service our clients." Not all of the clients actually knew there had been any problem, in spite of Cokes' statement that the business is only just recovering now. "It was a major pain," she says; you just wouldn't have known if you were a client because the company's technology made it agile enough to move anywhere at short notice. The two weeks spent ironing happened more at the company's own behest because it wanted to retrieve documents rather than because there was a business imperative. The insurers certainly didn't think it was a major issue.It's perhaps as much a statement about press coverage as anything that when people think "disaster recovery" they tend to think of IT and back-up. But the loss of paper documents is just as serious. New figures from Fujitsu Scansnap! say that 55% of businesses have no formal recovery plan if paper documents are lost, which, when contrasted with 24% saying losing paper documents would pose a serious problem to the business. 41% of respondents admitted it would be virtually impossible to recover lost papers because there was no back-up, while 30% of them backed up using a scanner - here the vested interests take over but the figures are worthy of consideration nonetheless. Of course some of the companies in the survey will have been aware of services such as those offered by Thorburn and her contemporaries; this will apply to by no means all of them.When it comes to electronic documents you'll find a lot of advice around the place telling you to back everything up, preferably offsite, and this is honestly a sound policy to adopt. At the risk of peddling clich¿s, nobody is ever going to get sacked for taking eminently sensible precautions and making data recovery easy if the worst actually happens. But it's worth bearing in mind that if you intend to start a regime of religious back-ups tomorrow and your systems go west this afternoon or a friendly neighbourhood arsonist strikes this evening, there  are alternatives other than praying very hard that could rescue the situation for you.Back up basics&#183;If damage happens, don't rely exclusively on IT - companies like Document SOS work best from paper documents and can achieve remarkable results.&#183;Check your insurance details, particularly when it comes to renewal. "We had our insurance come up for renewal but it wasn't clear that if we didn't check a particular box then we wouldn't be covered for business interruption," said one business manager contacted for this article. "Then we had our incident and couldn't work for a period of time."&#183;Do all the usual things like backing up and double checking that the back ups work - then bear in mind that there are specialists in fire, water, terrorism and other damage that will be willing to effect further repairs where necessary.
On a Saturday night in August last year, arsonists set fire to the head office of FDS Group, the field marketing agency, in Whitstable. The office suffered £2.2m of damage and was uninhabitable.On Sunday morning, the group's chairman, Alison Williams, the office manager and the head of IT came up with a plan for relocating the office's 70 staff. By Wednesday afternoon, all the employees had been rehoused, new IT equipment was in place, phones and email were working and data had been restored from back up tapes.The ability to get the business up and running in a matter of days was crucial if FDS wasn't going to go under, says Williams. "Our clients are the types of people whose businesses have to move forward no matter what. Many of them are large and blue chip. One of their suppliers having their head office burned down is not a reason that can be allowed to influence anything going wrong on their account."The company was, in some respects, lucky - because the firm was based in a small town, says Williams, she knew all the local people and was able to ring two people she knew who had office space. But it also had sound back-up procedures in place: it backed up its data every night and took the tapes offsite, so it was able to recover its data in full. Finally, it was covered by insurance policies, though Williams found that the insurance companies were reluctant to pay up in full, and hired a specialist to negotiate with the insurers.Getting back on track wasn't easy, however, and Williams believes the firm suffered as a result. Existing clients stayed, but FDS simply didn't have the time to look for new clients. "We spent a lot of time reassuring clients, making sure they were comfortable, and looking after our current business. What that meant was that new business went on the back burner." In the previous five years, the company had had 35% year-on-year growth; after the fire it was only 8%. But FDS was able to recover. Could you say the same if your firm experienced an arson attack? While most corporates have fairly strong disaster recovery processes in place, the response of all too many SMEs is to cross fingers and hope it doesn't happen to them.Research by the London Chamber of Commerce, published in May 2003, found that only 17% of the 4,000 London SMEs surveyed had a contingency plan in place, and of those that did, only 10% had tested the plan or had trained employees to use the plan.The truth is, it could happen to you. In August this year, we saw the impact of power cuts in both London and New York, while the past few months have seen a torrent of new viruses attacking computer systems all over the world. According to digital risk specialist Mi2g, August 2003 was, as a result of the SoBig and Blaster attacks, the worst month for digital damage ever. While most of us are now aware of the potential threat from viruses, other disasters are simply unforeseeable: no one could have predicted the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Centre. There are also attacks from hackers, natural disasters such as floods and lightning, human attacks such as theft and arson, and simple systems failures such as hard disk crashes or power cuts.In fact, the main causes of data loss, according to storage management consultant BI-Tech, are hardware system malfunction (44%) and human error (32 %). Natural disasters account for only 3% of incidences of data loss. Any disaster could leave your organisation unable to function. Estimates vary as to the impact of a disaster on a business: analyst firm Gartner's relatively cautious estimate is that 40% of companies that suffer a disaster go out of business within five years.If some firms are reluctant to pay out money, there are increasingly more immediate reasons to put disaster recovery measures in place, says Debbie Rosario, senior consultant at Compass Management Consultancy. "Large corporates are under increasing pressure to improve business continuity because of increasing regulation," she says. "That pressure will be pushed downwards to suppliers. What SMEs may find happening is that they lose contracts because of that. If the worst happens and they haven't demonstrated that they've taken good and reasonable care, you can get into the realms of liability. Not only do you lose your own business, but one of your large clients loses revenue and wants recompense."But the reverse might also apply, adds Rosario. "If SMEs are able to demonstrate they have taken good and reasonable care around business continuity, it could give them competitive advantage." You can even, says Rosario, ask your customers for help: "Go to your big clients and say, 'We want to look at improving our business continuity, is there some mutually agreeable arrangement we can come to?' The perfect time to be looking at something like that is contract negotiation."There are two reasons why SMEs tend to ignore continuity planning. One is cost - it may not seem worth paying out money for a contingency that may never happen. The other, says Simon Mingay, vice-president and research director at Gartner, is that "it never reaches the top of people's to-do list. It's a classic issue that's important but never urgent."But disaster recovery need not be expensive or complicated. Begin by carrying out an impact analysis, looking both at the likelihood of a particular disaster happening and at the impact it would have. This enables you to make a realistic assessment of where it's worth spending your money, says Mingay. "It's simply about asking some basic questions like: 'If this office were rendered usable, what would be the effect in the first hour? What would be the effect in eight hours, three days, a week, or a month?'"On the IT side, look at individual applications, look at servers, and ask, 'What would be the effect of this not being available?' And measure it in terms of lost revenue, lost credibility, and effect on customer satisfaction. Typically when organisations do that, it galvanises some kind of response."One crucial element of disaster recovery is disaster prevention; making sure the disaster doesn't happen by securing your IT systems with anti-virus software and firewalls is a better use of money than having contingency for when they're attacked. Even so, many SMEs fall far short of what is required to make their systems secure. In 2001, a small independent financial adviser called Trinity Financial Limited, which had no virus protection, was hit by a virus that erased all client records. It took two weeks to clear the virus and restore three months' worth of back-ups.Research by anti-virus vendor Symantec has found that that almost a third of SMEs did not have a firewall. Although 97% of businesses have some anti-virus protection in place, a survey last year by anti-virus vendor McAfee found that only a third of business update their anti-virus software daily - even though new viruses are being set loose all the time.Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at anti-virus vendor Sophos points out that even if you buy a brand new PC for your business, it may have been sitting on the shelf for months. Thus, it will not be running either up-to-date anti-virus software or the most secure version of its operating system.  There are strategies all organisations should have in place. You need to back up data, take the tapes offsite - and make sure that that policy is being followed, says Mingay. "One of the things that many organisations discover is that the things they said they were doing have lapsed because of complacency or change of staff."In February this year, Alison Williams and her staff relocated to their now-rebuilt head office. Dealing with the after-effects cost the firm a huge amount in terms of lost management time and business development. A year after, the business is back on track. How many firms would be able to say the same?What not to do&#183;When you're setting up a password for the first time, always choose the name of your partner or pet. Nobody at all will guess this so you won't have put yourself at risk of letting aggrieved colleagues or ex-employees (or even the competition) loose on your information at all.&#183;Don't worry about backing up your data. Mishaps don't really happen except to other people and you won't want to get to anything more than a couple of months old again. If you insist on backing up, at least don't try to restore any data to make sure  it works before an emergency actually happens.&#183;Store your backed up data somewhere easy to find. Next to the computers is useful, so that if your office or home office burns down it can keep the original data company. Or store it on the same hard disk as the originals -some older programs will happily let you do that.&#183;Make sure you do what a recent contributor to a web conferencing system did a few weeks ago and try downloading your anti-virus software from KaZaA or another file sharing system. You'll have no technical support and will be unable to download any updates, but who cares about detail? You've saved a few quid.&#183;Once you've installed your legitimate anti-virus software   don't worry about registration of updates. These are for wimps and nobody's likely to develop another virus to attack you after you've made the original installation, no matter how many years elapse. And your existing software will probably cover you - more or less - anyway.&#183;If your staff have sensitive data on their computers, make sure it's password-protected but don't worry about what happens if they leave their computers on overnight or while they're away from their desks. Password-protected screensavers are an extravagance,right?&#183;Back up all your data to CD. Buy a fireproof safe. Put the CDs in the safe. Have a fire. Remember you needed to get a heatproof as well as fireproof safe. Try to restore data from the warped CDs with which you are left. Kick yourself very hard.&#183;If you do any work from home, don't worry about insurance. Your domestic policy will probably cover any loss due to theft and accident, and business continuity isn't that much to worry about, so there's no need to check or talk to a specialist.&#183;Appoint someone to be in charge of your IT installation. When they leave or go on holiday, wait until they get back if there's a problem. (Say, a virus.) Having a back up plan is overly fussy: it's better to allow one island of information within your organisation.&#183;If you're installing lots of new technology, whether through upgrade or introducing it for the first time, assume your insurance will cover it if there's a problem. You'll be paying enough already and will no doubt want to keep overheads down. (And what they don't know won't hurt them.)
It seems that not even the involvement of the royal family can save dotcom companies these days.Getmapping, whose founding shareholders included the Queen, yesterday admitted it would have to quit the stock market to save what remains of its cash.The company is also dumping its millennium map, aerial photos taken across the UK which it sells over the internet, despite spending about &#163;2.5m on the project. Instead it will offer pictures of the most popular areas of Britain as well as historical photography.Getmapping raised &#163;10m in a flotation three years ago but has only &#163;500,000 in the bank and is still firmly in the red. It lost &#163;733,000 in the first six months of the year, compared with just over &#163;1m a year ago.Getmapping has been hamstrung by a competing service begun earlier this year by the state-owned ordnance survey.Chief executive Tristram Cary said yesterday that the OS service had lower overheads because it was subsidised through its monopoly position in physical maps. "I really do think it is a scandal 
 that the OS has been allowed to compete using what is in effect public money," he added.Getmapping had also hoped to resell OS's aerial maps on its website but contractual problems scuppered that plan.Sales of Getmapping's facsimile version of William the Conqueror's Domesday Book, which retails for almost &#163;7,000, have also collapsed.Mr Cary said it was costing about &#163;80,000 a year to retain a listing on the Alternative Investment Market, too much to bear as "we have to husband our cash resources".Shareholders will be able to sell their shares on a matched-bargain basis, but Mr Cary admitted that a longer term solution must be found. "We will be looking for an exit route at some point, which might be a sale or even a relisting ... There is no plan yet and we have had no approaches."The Queen picked up a 1.5% stake in the firm before it floated, paying &#163;50,000. The shares were switched into a nominee account so it remains unclear whether the privy purse remains a shareholder.At the height of the boom the stake was worth almost &#163;1m; at yesterday's share price that figure was &#163;30,000.
Power cuts, terrorist rehearsals, David Blaine - the scope for disasters in a business has never been greater. Worryingly, figures from AXA suggest 43% of companies suffering some sort of disaster never recover. Prompted by this, the company has released a business continuity guide on the web called Business 4 Tomorrow. You can get hold of a copy atwww.axa4business.co.uk. If yours is one of the over 50% of businesses in the UK that does not have a back up plan in place for when disaster strikes it can't do any harm to have a look.o O2 and Orange have announced their Christmas ranges and among the picturephones, gaming gadgets and phones with radios are the next generation of PDA phones. O2 will be selling both the XDA II, the sequel to its already successful Pocket PC-based XDA. This will now have Bluetooth built in for wireless networking and the new model is slightly slimmer than the old one. O2 will also be pushing the new Blackberry: primarily an email device, the new version works fine with any POP3 email system (the old one demanded a more corporate network) so if your primary need is for mobile email then this, with its colour screen and diary/ contact functions plus built-in phone, is your best option of the two. Orange, meanwhile, is set to launch the new Handspring Treo 600, a Palm-based PDA with full telephone functions. No Bluetooth on this one although add-in cards to ensure this sort of connectivity will also be available. All products should be available by the end of October.Many employers are by now hopelessly confused about email in the workplace. Nobody is unreasonable enough to suggest employees shouldn't use the work phone for personal calls at any time, and the cost penalty for internet use can be lower than for the phone. However, given research from Waterford Technology that suggests 35% of workplace emails are not work-related, people can be forgiven for wondering what they can do about it. Bearing this in mind, Waterford has joined with Robert Muckle Solicitors in offering a guide called Email Monitoring in the Workplace - a simple guide for employers, for which business managers can register atwww.mailmeter.com. It will offer practical advice on acceptable use policies as well as the risks being run by companies with unfettered email policies, and the regulations that exist around email.London-based businesses are about to receive a boost if they have under 250 employees - Internet Exchange, the network store chain, has secured funding to allow it to offer free training to every employee in companies that size. It also anticipates being able to offer the same service in Bristol very soon. The courses on offer can involve Microsoft certification up to Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer, a highly-regarded qualification that will allow businesses to carry out their own IT support.Sick of spam? Yes, we get spam messages with that heading in them as well. Rockliffe has added new controls over junk mail to its MailSite product version 6.0. Essentially, when a message enters the system the software looks to see whether it looks like spam: the network administrator gets to specify the criteria. It also stops personal email addresses from being lifted and put onto spam lists, the company claims. MailSite 6.0 costs from £595 and further information is atwww.rockliffe.com.IT practice Doherty IT Solutions is bringing two new services to the small business: a broadband-based network management tool to offer diagnostics and other services to small network installations, plus a free network vulnerability test. Clearly the first attracts a charge but the advantages should be many: the company aims to bring the sort of network management available in the corporate arena to the small and medium enterprise. Further information atwww.doherty.co.uk.Another business aiming to bring corporate-style services to smaller traders is Man Bytes Dog (www.manbytesdog.uk.com). It has just launched VITAL, a set of enterprise software services including full-blown Microsoft Exchange for better email services, Office XP Professional, offsite back-up, centralised management of patches and fixes and much else including remote working and security management. The downside is that this is available only to people with a broadband connection as you'll need a DSL line - although it goes through a private network rather than the internet for extra security.
Mobile applications haven't been that successful. Expensive and slow to deliver value, they never lived up to the promise of a connected workforce, able to access information anytime, anywhere. They weren't easy to build and deploy, as not only did you have to deal with networks that varied in speed and quality, you also had to deliver applications that would work with many different screens and platforms. The resulting high cost of development meant it has been difficult for mobile applications to demonstrate returns.At least that was how things used to be. A new generation of packaged, hosted solutions has rewritten the rules. Instead of spending months on developing applications from scratch, packaged solutions can be linked into back-end systems, customised to fit in with the way your staff work, and rolled out to users in a matter of weeks. They are not just systems you can build and deploy yourself, they are also systems that mobile operators are beginning to sell to their business customers.Orange has been working with Pervasic to deliver two products: Orange Sales Accelerator and Orange Service   Accelerator. These link back-end business systems with sales and service staff in the field. Perhaps best thought of as packaged middleware, the Accelerators are hosted at Orange and hook into your databases and applications using Open DataBase Connectivity queries. Information is delivered to PDAs or smartphones, and you just pay a monthly bill. Ferroli, a heating appliance company, is using Orange's tools to move its field service staff from a paper-based form system that used overnight faxes, to one that works in real time. This solution is saving them an hour and a half a day per engineer: a time saving that can quickly be turned into more service calls, and an impressive return on investment.Packaged mobile solutions have to be adaptable. No two businesses are the same, so they have to be able to be customised, and integrated with existing applications. While some solutions use replication databases, Dexterra offers solutions built around a data router that just passes information between central applications and mobile devices. It's an approach that is gaining traction with local government, and can support services that traditionally haven't been able to show any returns when   equipped with mobile technologies - including meals on wheels, and museums and galleries.It's not just about using or customising packaged applications. There are always going to be bespoke developments, and developers can take advantage of application frameworks. Location specialists Mobile Commerce offer access to their tools, treating them as component pieces for organisations that want to deliver network-agnostic applications, and to take advantage of their connections into, and relationship with, the main network operators. It is an alternate route being used for tracking assets or employees. Mobile Commerce's business development manager, Bryan Stockwell, describes his company's objective as "making it cheaper and quicker for people to   integrate components and get out there and market products".Mobile Commerce isn't the only mobile application infrastructure provider giving access to its systems. Webraska is selling fleet management tools based around its location and navigation services. With turn-key solutions on the market, it is easy enough for a large fleet operator to quickly manage their vehicles. French supermarket Carrefour is using a Webraska system to manage its delivery fleet, giving it more control over where its trucks are - and when they will make deliveries to stores.There are a lot of packaged mobile application solutions about. Talk to Palm, and you'll get a long list of tools and solutions. They cover everything from links to Oracle's Collaboration site and IBM's WebSphere, to   contact management tools that link directly to customer relationship management solutions. Packaged vertical solutions handle truancy reporting, and support GPs when they are out of the surgery. You will hear similar from mobile operators and handset manufacturers.An alternate approach comes when you take your existing applications, and deliver them to mobile users using technologies such as Citrix's Metaframe. Staffordshire police is equipping 60 officers with rugged PDAs and GPRS connections, giving them direct access to specific applications on the Police National Computer. While on the beat they can enter information and do searches, without having to go through a radio operator. The aim is to increase visibility of beat officers by 10% - so they don't spend time at the station filing reports, or waiting for responses. It also means that radio operators don't have to deal with routine queries, and can concentrate on managing emergency calls.Like all applications, mobile applications need support. It is not easy to see just what is on a smartphone's screen - especially if you are dealing with a field service engineer miles from home base, who is not expecting to be back on site for several days. UK start-up Intuwave's m-Network middleware platform for Symbian phones also includes its m-Support tool, which delivers smartphone screens to support desktops - speeding up problem resolution. Remote control also means that support staff can quickly demonstrate new application features or workarounds, while the phone's user is on the road.Mobile data is finally making a place for itself in business. Packaged solutions have helped, as they turn development and rollout into a quick and relatively easy process, and one that delivers measurable returns. In an economic climate demanding quick returns on IT investments, it is a comforting thought.
What do Microsoft's chief executive Steve Ballmer and Italy's prime minister talk about when they get together with politicians and officials from 46 countries.We can't honestly say. Although The Guardian was invited to Microsoft's first European "Government Leaders" conference in Rome last week (the company even paid the hotel bill), its reporter spent much of the event being turned away from sessions by pistol-packing security goons."I know there's been a little bit of frustration," said our minder from Microsoft Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA), "but to enable free discussion, we agreed with the Italian government that there wouldn't be media in the meetings." The company wouldn't even say who was in the audience - for "security purposes" - but the list apparently included five prime ministers.Sadly for conspiracy theorists, this is not evidence of a Microsoft/ Berlusconi masterplan for world domination. Rather, it is a sign of the concern the world's largest IT company feels about its relationship with European governments. It has run government leader events in Seattle for six years, but now feels that Europe needs a separate event.For Microsoft, Europe is now the frontline in two wars being waged. One is being fought over the legality of Windows' near monopoly in desktop operating systems. In its latest offensive, the European commission is threatening to force Microsoft to unbundle Windows Media Player from current and future Windows products.The other war is against open source software such as Linux, especially in government IT projects. With government currently the healthiest sector of the IT market, this is potentially bad for the bottom line. European administrations, led by Germany, are among the most active in specifying a preference for open source software in IT projects. The commission has also made several hints in this direction: the 2005 e-Europe action plan, adopted in Lisbon in 2000, requires governments to promote the use of open source in the public sector. Last summer, the commission published a working paper to promote interoperability based on open standards - interpreted by some to include open source.In the UK, for more than a year, Treasury guidelines have required public bodies to consider open source but decide on the basis of best value. IBM UK, which last week staged its own event to promote open source software to the British government, cites the Department of Work and Pensions and Oxfordshire County Council as recent Linux converts. "We're seeing quite a significant uptake of Linux by government," said Jeremy Wray, business development executive, public sector at IBM Software. "I would expect dozens of projects by the end of the year."Microsoft is responding to its European challenge with a feel-good campaign to spread the message that what is good for Bill Gates is also good for e-Europe. At the conference, the company announced a $250m global handout for IT in education. This includes cut-price software and FreshStart, a scheme under which   schools that have been donated corporate PCs with their drives wiped clean can obtain Windows free of charge with no questions asked. The offers apply to schools in poor countries, and poor schools in rich countries.Meanwhile, the company is vigorously lobbying against any move by governments to specify open source on principle."We have decided to be more structured in our approach to the public sector," Jean Philippe Courtois, chief executive Microsoft EMEA, told a press conference. "We need to be around the table to express our position: we were not around these tables a few years ago, which was probably a mistake because other people speak on your behalf."Microsoft's main argument against Linux in public administration is that governments don't need to worry about source code. The important thing is that systems can talk to each other. "Technology that is open may or may not meet the requirements of open standards," Courtois said, whereas Microsoft's support for standards such as XML means that its systems can. He called for "freedom of choice" and reminded us that, where access to source code is vital for national security, Microsoft provides it to approved governments (including the UK).How did this go down with the government leaders? Courtois wouldn't go into details, but gave a flavour of what was being said on the conference floor. "There were a lot of discussions about products... education is a common thread." Oh, and open source. "When it's not about emotions but about technology being   applied to solve concrete problems, we had some very good discussions."The conference climaxed with a barnstorming performance from Ballmer. (The press were allowed to watch on a video feed.) After dismissing those who say the IT revolution is over, and a call to arms against virus-writers and hackers - "these are not innocent pranks" - he mounted a passionate defence of proprietary software as an engine of wealth creation. For every dollar Microsoft earns, other companies make $8 in software and services, he said. "Over the next three years, 55,000 new IT companies will be created here in western Europe. When I hear suggestions that other models of software development can match this performance, I'm quite sceptical given the track record of our industry."Microsoft, however, welcomes competition, Ballmer says, and called for "neutral procurement policies" to allow governments to pick "the best software for the job". Two governments have recently evaluated open source and Windows - and gone with Windows. One was Riga, the capital of Latvia, which like several other EU accession countries is investing heavily in e-government. "I know that the Mayor of Riga is in the audience," Ballmer said.At last, a security leak. But it was the only one. After a final clarion call on behalf of lifelong learning - "we call it unlimited potential, or UP" - Ballmer said he would be happy to take questions from government leaders in the audience. And in the press room, the screen went blank.
What is the biggest surprise about the way the web has developed?It was always designed to be a universal space but I've been constantly and happily surprised at the diversity of ways people have found to use it, the creativity put into developing content for the web and new applications.What in particular?Going way back to when the web was very, very young and there were just a few websites, one was an exhibition by the Vatican of Renaissance art and culture. It visited the Library of Congress in the US where some of the manuscripts were scanned: the output was photographed and put on a pre-web FTP server and then in Europe,Franz Hoeselcreated a website that was a virtual tour of the museum accessible to anybody. I sat in my office in Cern in Switzerland going into the music room by clicking on a thumbnail and my 21in colour monitor was filled with a beautiful, illuminated manuscript of a piece of music.Disappointments?I had hoped for it to be collaborative space, really a playspace. You can make a photograph album but you can't really do it as if you are sitting beside someone on the other side of the world. You can write a document, and there has been progress doing remote meetings, but I feel we have only scratched the surface of its capacity for enabling collaboration. I wanted to make it somewhere where you can together build a hypertext view of what you are going to do so groups of people can easily do things together. InW3C, the organisation I direct, we've pushed this technology as far as we can. We have chat sessions but there's a lot of work you have to do around the system, such as management of groups and access control so people can share information and know who it will be shared with.What can be done about spam?The worst spam lies in the email headers in which, for example, the "from" address is forged. Society has to understand that information in the internet protocols such as email must be treated just like information on paper and that forging such information is a crime and should be treated as such. If you cheat the internet protocols, you can get more money or bandwidth or cheat people. We should make it clear that this is as illegal as fraud. Once you know who the email is from, it is relatively easy for a system to filter email so you won't see things you don't want to.Is there a danger of a catastrophic event on the internet?We always have to be on the watch. A major problem is email software that does not adequately help a normal user distinguish between safe and unsafe things coming over the network. From the beginning of programming, there have been programs and data. They are distinct.A picture is data while a script is a program. Scripts and programs are dangerous. Pictures are not. Email software should enable people to clearly distinguish between things that are safe and unsafe. It should not allow them to run programs without jumping through hoops. It should not store them on the machine as runable programs - just fixing that hole will make a huge difference to virus propagation, if not eliminate it.
As corporate battles go, this one has been epic. Oracle's boots-first attempt to take over PeopleSoft ignited a summer of hostility and boardroom brawling that enthralled a sector still reeling from the stock market blues.The database goliath's acquisitive $7bn (&#163;4.5bn) assault on its Californian cousin has had everything from counter-claims and intrigue to dark whispers of dirty tricks, developing into a four-month grudge match from which neither has flinched. Yet now, even as its opponents keep swinging, PeopleSoft's executives are claiming victory."Oracle's bid has failed. A takeover was never in the best interests of either the company or the market and we were always confident not only in our ability to resist it, but also that it was the correct thing to do," says Guy Dubois, PeopleSoft's international vice-president."With two powerful personalities like Larry Ellison and our own Craig Conway involved, intense media interest was inevitable, but speculation can stop now. PeopleSoft's strategy remains unaffected and so far as we're concerned 'the story' is over."If the triumph turns out to be true,   it will have been hard won. After it exceeded analysts' expectations to post record results for six consecutive quarters, few expected trouble when PeopleSoft moved in June to make customer relationships management specialists JD Edwards its fourth acquisition in 18 months with an amicable $1.75bn bid. But then Oracle's founder Ellison stepped in.He offered PeopleSoft's shareholders almost $2bn more than the company's market capitalisation. The man whose dexterity forged a $70bn leviathan in under 25 years was playing hardball. Pitching in with its first surprise bid within a week of the JD Edwards' announcement, Oracle argued that with consolidation inevitable in a sector where licence revenue plummeted 24.7% last year, resistance to the proposed merger was both foolhardy and futile.Denouncing the bid as purely an attempt to disrupt the merger, PeopleSoft and JD Edwards launched dual actions alleging unfair business practices and "tortuous interference" with customer relationships. The State of Connecticut filed an antitrust suit, but Ellison countered with a charm offensive to persuade PeopleSoft's customers that in an uncertain future, Oracle was the safest bet.Confidence in PeopleSoft's business was dented, its attempts to complete sales were hampered and the company was forced to promise a guaranteed refund should its product line be discontinued. Rivals SAP attempted to persuade customers that now was the time to defect."The tone of the past few months was extremely violent, yet at the same time we had to close our last quarter's results and continue growing the company as planned," says Dubois. "We have succeeded, but it has been a major challenge."Yet the speculation is that not only PeopleSoft suffered. The theory is that Oracle's confident bid disguises a growing anxiety over its position. Conway believes that consolidation has been a long time coming following the lavish spending on market ing, investments and acquisitions that became a feature of the IT boom, and that nobody can afford to rest on their laurels."The industry has been on a drunken binge and now it's deservedly suffering from the worst hangover of its life. Companies that should have known better have wasted fortunes on excessive promotional stunts and poured hugely optimistic levels of funding into business models that could never have been made to work," he says. "Everyone has been in a company that's lost its edge and it's not pretty.Larry Ellison decided to spend more time on his yacht and Oracle drifted," he added. "It all depends heavily on leadership. If the boss pulls back, then his company follows suit, no question."Suggesting that massive companies   rely so heavily on one man might seem fanciful, but such comments add weight to the notion that for Ellison, still confidently predicting that he'll have PeopleSoft in his pocket within weeks, the takeover saga is as much personal as it is business. Certainly Conway, credited with single-handedly dragging his firm from the mire since joining in 1999, pulls few punches. A straight-talker, he has never been reluctant to fire a broadside at competitors and is not about to change.Whatever the personal score, PeopleSoft claims that after sealing the JD Edwards buyout last week, it is now just six weeks away from completing a merger that will save $150m and prepare the expanded entity for its radical strategy of eschewing the corporate-only approach long favoured by the sector and pursuing a profit margin in the middle market."Dealing with middle-market businesses is like playing with rattlesnakes - they bite," says Conway. "You need a different implementation strategy, a different pricing structure and a whole new approach to sales. But if you can get it right, then there's a massive opportunity out there, and we intend to grab it."While his quarry insists the matter is no longer worthy of its time, Ellison has yet to concede defeat. Oracle's latest offer for PeopleSoft shares will remain open until late October and publicly at least, the company maintains that success is just around the corner.In the meantime, PeopleSoft's executives plan to continue with the business strategy they put in place before the takeover saga. "If there is one thing we have learned it is that in a difficult market, speed is essential," says Dubois. "Events can overtake you and get in the way without warning, so it is vital your plans are finalised. You must stick to that vision and push it through - irrespective of what is happening."
It's not unusual to hear the winners at music award ceremonies thank media types for their support - everyone from DJs and radio stations to friendly journalists. But according to the music blog Blissblog, when Dizzee Rascal won the Mercury Music Prize earlier this month for his debut album Boy in Da Corner, he took things a little further.In an excerpt from his award speech published on the site, the young rapper thanks the people you'd expect - his Roll Deep crew, his record label XL and his "Hackney and Bow peeps". But he ends by giving a big shout to "all my soldiers out there in the blogosphere".A bit of a first, both for the music business and the blogging world. But it didn't actually happen. Dizzee didn't thank bloggers everywhere. It was just a joke on the part of Simon Reynolds, the music writer behind Blissblog."I guess I was trying to blow my/our trumpet while also taking the piss out of that impulse to blow the trumpet! Because I'm damn sure Dizzee and the rest are totally unaware of our existence," says Reynolds. He points out that the communications network of choice for the music underground in which Dizzee Rascal operates is made up of pirate radio, mobile phones and SMS messages. "But the blogs had a big role in building buzz on Dizzee outside the underground scene itself. Someone as talented as Dizzee would rise regardless. But I do think 'we' helped get things started in terms of the music media. I reckon a lot of music journalists check out the blogs."So perhaps Dizzee really should have thanked bloggers? It sounds silly given the relatively small numbers of people reading individual blogs. But music industry types don't dismiss the idea. "Blogs don't have an impact on mass market sales," says NME editor Conor McNicholas. "But Dizzee's success is partly down to word of mouth through the industry. And the industry certainly does take notice of dedicated fan sites."Blogging can often seem like a self-involved, self-referential world. However, the music blogs are actually about something. As a result, they're finding a place in the larger media   ecology of the music business, becoming a place to find out about "the next big thing" and sample quality writing about music. For the music magazines in particular, blogs are a potential source of new writing talent. And, as their quality and range increases, they may even become competitors.That may be a long way off. But it's fair to say that as far as Dizzee Rascal is concerned, Reynolds and his fellow bloggers were there first. Last summer, Reynolds discovered Dizzee Rascal via pirate radio and specialist record shops. Google showed that no one was writing about him. So he set up Blissblog, in part to cover Dizzee and the scene he was part of, and last December nominated Dizzee Rascal's white label I love U as best single of 2002. Other music bloggers in the UK, US and Australia followed his lead."Lots of people tracked down the MP3 of I Love U based on what Simon said, and there was a lot of buzz around it then," says Tom Ewing, who runs a network of music sites including New York London Paris Munich and I Love Music, a hugely popular discussion board where music bloggers swap ideas and insults. Ewing and Reynolds point out that file sharing helped get Dizzee Rascal known much quicker than might once have happened.In the past, if you lived outside the range of the pirate radio stations that played his tracks or didn't frequent the few specialist shops that sold his white label records, you had to wait until a mainstream record label/radio station picked up on him to hear his music. In contrast, an MP3 of I Love U appeared on the file-sharing networks quickly. Hence, by the start of the year, Dizzee already had a network of fans here and in the US.The cultural acceleration enabled by blogging and file-sharing has its downside, Reynolds says. The "build them up, knock them down" routines of the music press normally play out over a couple of albums - a debut is praised to the skies and its follow-up is ritually slammed. In the music blogosphere, things move faster. Boy in da Corner was available on file-sharing networks two months before its official release, says Reynolds. As a result, a backlash set in a month before the CD appeared in shops.Reynolds and Ewing represent   opposing poles of music blogging. Reynolds is a well-known music journalist, who started out on the now- defunct Melody Maker and divides his time between freelancing and books. Lots of other professional journalists are also at work in the blogosphere. There is a good set of links on Reynolds' site. It's not hard to see why professional hacks use blogs. They let them try out ideas, showcase their work, raise their profile and possibly get more work.Ewing represents something different. Though he could make a living writing about music, he prefers to stay amateur and pick up a regular salary from a day job in market research. Ewing says "the hand-to-mouth existence of a music journalist doesn't appeal. Being a print music journalist now, you're subject to an awful lot of constraints. It might detract from loving the music."Certainly, bloggers have the space to write at length about the music they love, which can be great but can lead to over-involved rambling. However, for the music magazines, the multiplication of music media outlets has led to a fall in ad revenues, which means there's less space in magazines for writers to hold forth.On a more general level, music magazines are more targeted at specific consumer niches, says Ewing. They're more knowing about what their particular audience wants and less likely to take risks."The influence of market research means that the conversation music magazines have with their audience happens on this abstracted level, via focus groups and surveys," says Ewing. With blogs, though, writers are free to ramble and engage their readers in conversation. According to Ewing, aside from the range of material they can cover (unlike the music press, which is mostly focused around release schedules), this is the blogs' real strength. The mainstream music magazines have news and celebrity interviews, which the blogs don't, he admits, but they've lost the sense of a close connection with readers. "The old music press used to feel like a mate. It doesn't anymore."Some bloggers have said that if you're not interested in interviews, there's not much point in buying the conventional music magazines, you can get all the informed reviews you need online. Perhaps, just as file sharing poses a threat to the music business in general, free content on the music blogs might cause problems for the mainstream music magazines."I can see a generation of hipster/ music-obsessives emerging who will never buy or rarely buy music mags," says Reynolds. "The leading edge of opinion will go to the blogs and the webzines." But he adds that the blogosphere might help revive the mainstream as writers from blogs move on to mainstream titles.It's already happening in the US, says Ewing. Print titles such as The Village Voice and The Seattle Weekly have recently revitalised their music coverage by bringing onboard music bloggers.Might it happen over here? Actually the NME is already very active online. Its website is the biggest music site in Europe, says McNicholas. Their message boards are very active, with readers uploading gig reviews and photos. The site also polls its users, generating content that then finds its way into the paper - as in the recent survey of what readers thought of the Glastonbury festival.McNicholas says the paper keeps tabs on the blogs. "Good informed writing is good wherever it is. We keep our eyes and ears open. You never know - there might be people we want to nick for the NME."Blogs are also having an indirect effect on the NME's general style. "When I came in a year ago, I made an effort to get our style to be more conversational. It was terribly authoritarian. But having authority doesn't mean you have to sound like the Telegraph. We need to get closer to our readers. We should feel like the same people who are going out buying the music and going to gigs." Borrowing the feel of the blogs (if not the actual writers) can help here, he suggests.Dizzee Rascal's record label, XL Recordings, takes a similarly pragmatic view of blogs, according to Simon Wheeler, head of new media for the Beggars Group (which owns XL). XL was aware of the buzz surrounding Dizzee Rascal in the blogs and file sharing networks, he says."It backed up our opinion that Dizzee was someone who would inspire a lot of people once they were exposed to him." That's been borne out by post-Mercury sales. Boy in Da Corner is now well on the way to going gold. Wheeler suggests that in future, the record industry will treat influential blogs like any other form of media. "If there are people who are influential in a particular scene, you're going to want them to act as taste makers," he says.All of which means that next year, perhaps, bloggers won't have to blow their own trumpet. The winner of the Mercury Music Prize 2004 might actually do it for them.LinksBlissbloghttp://blissout.blog spot.comTom Ewing's network of music siteswww.freakytrigger.co.ukThe Village Voicewww.villagevoice.comThe Seattle Weeklywww.seattleweekly.comThe NMEwww.nme.com
It started with nuts. The pale boy with freckles was an eagle scout on the streets of Seattle, selling kernels to raise money for his troop. He could have eaten the nuts, or trousered the cash, but young Bill Gates took his scouting seriously and is said to have handed over all the proceeds to the troop. Thus begins the tale of history's greatest philanthropist.This week, several decades later, the founder of Microsoft travelled to a rural clinic in Mozambique to announce the donation of &#163;100m ($168m) to fight malaria in Africa and to reaffirm a promise to give away his &#163;28bn fortune before he dies.Gates is no natural baby-hugger, and he looked awkward sitting cross-legged on a reed mat with mothers at the Manhica clinic, but when addressing doctors, scientists and politicians, the money talk was fluent: $28m for new prevention strategies; $40m for new drugs; $100m for a vaccine. The slightly nasal voice sounded casual, condensing figures into one word: ahundredmilliondollars.Scouring the continent for projects to support, yesterday he was in Botswana meeting prostitutes to discuss sexually transmitted diseases and ways for the richest man in the world to save lives. Or, as one wag put it, to do to HIV/Aids and malaria what he did to Netscape.A new era of philanthropy has dawned, according to BusinessWeek magazine, with billions of dollars spilling from the likes of Ted Turner, George Soros and Paul Allen, and way ahead, leading the charge, is the Seattle nut-seller.The Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation, which he runs with his wife, overtook the London-based Wellcome Foundation several years ago as the world's biggest charitable foundation. It has already spent more than &#163;1.9bn of its &#163;14bn assets on health projects in developing countries.Gates has inherited the mantle of Rockerfeller and Carnegie and easily surpassed their largesse, says Stacey Palmer, editor of Chronicle of Philanthropy, a newspaper of the non-profit world. At 47, the software architect is younger than his predecessors, more hands-on, and rather than build libraries is confronting iniquities in global health, a huge humanitarian crisis.Having started out in the basement of his father's house, the foundation has moved to a two-storey building in Seattle that has no markings to indicate its purpose. Processing grant applications which would dwarf some governments' budgets is a small staff of around 200, headed by Patty Stonesifer, a former Microsoft executive who works at the foundation full-time for no salary. "What they're trying to do is extraordinary: to completely return their family's resources to society," she says in a telephone interview from Seattle.Despite relinquishing day-to-day control of his company, Gates is still chairman and tends to just have weekends free for the foundation. "We get emails from him on Sundays quite frequently," says Stonesifer.Currently working through a pile of applications from India, she confesses to occasional angst over rejecting proposals but says that such decisions help to retain a sense of value, useful for a man with a 11-digit bank account."When you can see $2, $4, being spent at a time, see the charts on the clinic wall showing children's health, that's what keeps the wealth so exciting. It keeps the money very, very real," she says. Wanting every cent to count, Gates grumbled about a South American proposal which insisted that a village's pigs be vaccinated as well as the humans.If a man who spends his spare time swotting up on parasites and viruses and carries round copies of The Morbidity &amp; Mortality Weekly comes across as unusual, his wife paints a picture of an ordinary family doing its best to spend extraordinary wealth.Curled up on a sofa on the eighth floor of Johannesburg's Park Hyatt Hotel, Melinda Gates, dressed in a white knit blouse and red trousers, brown hair pulled back over an open face with a hint of lipstick, seems resolutely normal. The only hint of plutocracy are small diamond ear-rings, an assistant who takes copious notes during the interview and a burly man with an earpiece patrolling the carpet.She and Bill field a constant stream of emails and reports relating to the foundation, she says. "I separately read the grants in whatever free time we find; sometimes it's late at night, or for me sometimes while the kids are at school. And then on the weekends we come together and take four or five hours. We'll take a walk, or be in one of our offices, or we'll be somewhere in the house where we can get quiet time to go through them."The couple are constantly asked why. Why give away their money? To soften an image battered by federal anti-trust suits, say some. To avail of tax breaks, say others. The truth, says Melinda, has more to do with family tradition.The eagle scout who raised funds for his troop was reared by upper-middle-class parents who volunteered for civic committees and raised money for charities in Seattle. "That was instilled in Bill very young as a child. It wasn't something the parents talked about on their own in the living room without the kids, it was part of the dinner-table conversation."That humanist impulse faltered after Gates dropped out of Harvard and started building a business empire, she says. "You have to understand Bill was heads-down focused on Microsoft for many, many years." But their marriage in January 1994, followed by his mother's death six months later, prompted a reevaluation."We were thinking a lot about how Bill and his dad would start working together now. Was there something they could do together that they were both passionate about, and philanthropy, giving something back, was something that his mom believed deeply in."Encouraged by her own parents, the young Melinda was also predisposed to philanthropy, volunteering for community service at her local hospital, school and courthouse. "I went to a Catholic school and an academy in Dallas where the motto was 'servium', which means to serve. For me personally there is a little bit of religious focus in &#91;philanthropy&#93;."One small downside to the couple's do-gooding crusade is the official functions. "It's uncomfortable when you go into a room and people are thanking you all the time for what you've done."The debate about whether the Gates' philanthropy is tinged by self-interest will continue as long as they give money but ultimately, says Jacqueline Bataringaya, HIV/Aids director of the NGO ActionAid, it is irrelevant. "Their motives don't matter to mothers with sick children. I think the announcements this week will have a big impact. And they set an example to other rich people and governments."Despite reading Andrew Carnegie's 1889 tract, The Gospel of Wealth, which warns that he who dies rich dies disgraced, Gates started cautiously, funding computers in libraries and schools around Seattle, then in Africa. But two moments appear to have prompted a change: visiting Soweto to see an impoverished community with little use for the computer plugged into a generator; and reading about millions dying from preventable diseases in the World Development Report 1993. Since then the foundation has given more than $1bn to Africa for the prevention and treatment of diseases.Critics complain that Gates and other foundations are vestiges of monarchism, that decisions are taken behind closed doors with little or no explanation and no right of appeal, while NGOs welcomed the philanthropy but were divided over whether it would be well-spent.Mohga Kamal-Smith, Oxfam's health policy adviser, was concerned that pet projects would be favoured over the likes of the World Health Organisation. "The Gates money is a good contribution but that's not the way forward to handle a big health crisis. It would have been better to avoid piecemeal funding and invest in a global research activity."But Chris Conrad, a regional director with Care International, which receives substantial backing from Gates, praised the "nimble, flexible" support. "They think outside the box, they're not risk-averse. And they don't ask for hundreds of pages of documentation before giving approval."On one point the NGOs agreed. Philanthropy could never solve the big problems on its own. Governments, those in developing countries as well as the west, were the ones with the power - and responsibility - to really make a difference.That's something the Gates foundation recognises, says Stonesifer, which is why it paid for dozens of journalists and photographers to accompany Bill and Melinda to Mozambique. "We decided to use the spotlight to elicit political will." A day after the trip a European government asked to collaborate on malaria projects, she says.Three people with a vested interest in the philanthropy are the three Gates children. It is, arguably, their money that Mom and Dad are giving away. Bill has said they will inherit only several million dollars. Might they not resent missing out on the trappings of stratospheric wealth? Melinda throws back her head and laughs. "They're one, four and seven so right now I mostly discuss their allowance with them. They'll certainly get something but we'll have these conversations when they get older. If we do a good job as parents, I don't think they'll feel any differently about this than we do."Top US giversPaul G AllenThe MIH's eclectic approach to philanthropy includes giving $250,000 to the Affiliated Tribes of Northwest Indians to help bridge the "digital divide", and money for research into how virtual-reality technology might distract burn victims from their pain. He's perhaps best known for sinking millions into Seattle's Experience Music Project, a $240m rock 'n' roll museum Allen built in 2000.George SorosAfter years pouring billions into central and eastern Europe, George Soros has turned his attention to the US. The Hungarian-born financier who says he indulges his "messianic fantasies in giving away money", directs his foundation, the Open Society, towards the improvement of care for the dying, alternatives to punitive US drug policies, the improvement of schools and lowering teenage pregnancy rates.Ted TurnerAfter pledging $1bn (in instalments) to the UN, Turner saw his fortune slashed by the AOL Time Warner fiasco. He has now turned his attention to the environment. As the largest private landowner in the US, he is trying to reintroduce buffalo to the central plains and create a viable market for their meat; a national chain of buffalo steak restaurants is under way.Thomas S MonaghanMonaghan, founder of the Domino's Pizza chain, pledged $220m to build a Catholic university near Naples, Florida.David GeffenThe former music mogul and co-founder of DreamWorks movie studios pledged $200m to the School of Medicine at the University of California in Los Angeles.Alfred B FordThe great-grandson of Henry Ford gave $10m to the Temple of the Vedic Planetarium, a house of worship to be built in Mayapur, India, for the International Society for Krishna Consciousness.Edward Helmore
"The PC is becoming more and more the center of the entertainment experience," Dell said during a 45-minute question-and-answer session at the conference. "The PC is not just a computing device--it's entertainment, it's music, it's videos and it's television." The story ishere. More in a conference call later today (Thursday).
Fear about online security is one of the main reasons why the take-up of internet banking has been slower than some experts predicted. Although consumers are now using the web to buy products and check their bank balances, many are still concerned that their electronic money may somehow "disappear".This perception is not helped by periodic stories of hackers removing funds from international banks, or members of the public unwittingly being able to access the details of other banking customers. But the real threat of online fraud is much smaller than most of us believe, according to Dave Smith, spokesman for Smile, the internet bank."The perceived risk is greater than the real one," he says. "You are far more at risk of fraud if you hand over your credit card in a city centre restaurant, where it could be copied, than when you use it online. If a customer is the victim of fraud it will be the bank that picks up the tab, so you wouldn't lose out."Smile, like other internet banks, is reluctant to discuss security for fear of encouraging hacking activity, but says it uses a security system which scrambles all information which passes between customer and bank. "In fact, it is easier to trace money which is stolen electronically than it is money taken from a cash machine," says Dave Smith. "Everything online is audited so we know where it is going, and we have checks in place to maintain security. Although there have been a lot of stories about identity fraud, we have a number of procedures which we use to identify these fraudulent applications."Mark Maguire of Egg agrees that security is a "taboo" subject that is rarely talked about for fear of inciting hackers. "If a bank stands up and says it is confident that its systems are secure then that is a challenge to the hackers, who will try to attack it," he says. "At Egg we have a 100% guarantee that if there is a fraud that is not your fault, you will be completely refunded." He suggests that customers need to be aware that "spoofing", where hackers mock-up a site that is similar to that of a bank or e-retailer, is becoming increasingly common. "Online fraud is becoming increasingly sophisticated, so it does pay to exercise some caution."Two years ago the Financial Services Authority (FSA) warned internet banks that they were not doing enough to protect themselves or their customers against fraud. Since then, many banks have reported tightening up their security arrangements, although the FSA refused to be drawn on whether it felt that the measures were sufficient. Dave Eacott, spokesman for the FSA, said: "We do have conversations with the institutions about how they address the issue of internet security. The reason we do that is because in our own rules there is a requirement to have good systems and that extends into the IT area as well."Banks tend to be reluctant to report fraud or incidents of hacking for fear of the damage such news could do to their business. However, there are a number of measures that you can take when you are online which will minimise any risk of fraud. In the past the FSA has also urged customers to be less "slapdash" and more security conscious when banking online.Speaking at a conference on e-security several years ago, the FSA's e-commerce team manager said research had found that 40% of people banking online used the word "password" as a password, or a phrase easily guessed such as their name. Around 50% of people left their password typed in their computer.In fact, it is often customers who are the weakest link in the security system. A recent report by Egg found that consumers' carelessness with PC and internet passwords could compromise their personal security.  The report found that over half the UK never change their passwords and the majority have only one password. Robert Schifreen, the UK's first prosecuted hacker and now respected security pundit, says: "The internet is now one of the safest places to bank and shop if people themselves don't fall foul to a few common mistakes."The most common mistake was using the name of your children (23%) and partner (19%); these were followed by birthdays (12%); football teams (9%); celebrities and music bands (9%); favourite places (9%); using your own name (8%); and your pet's name (8%).So here is how you can reduce the chances of online fraud:1. Make sure information is encrypted by the bank so that it cannot be accessed by a third party - you can check this by looking for a closed padlock or similar security symbol on your browser2. Keep your password and your Pin number to yourself and don't write them down. Try to use a password which can't be easily guessed3. Shop only with reputable companies, or check them out before you buy. Use a recognised high street company, or one of the many established online specialists4. Make sure you can contact your retailer. Steer clear of sites that list only a Post Office box number or no address at all. If you are not sure, give them a call, and if you are still not satisfied, then don't shop there5. If you are shopping outside the UK, check where the retailer is located. This is important, as you may not be covered by the Consumer Credit Act for shopping at sites outside the UK6. Just as when you shop in the high street and save your receipts in the event that you need to return or exchange an item, you should keep a record of all online transactions.
Microsoft's move to shut down all its UK chatrooms in an effort to protect children at risk from paedophiles has today come in for an avalanche of criticism from rivals, which have accused the US giant of being "irresponsible" and "reckless".While today's announcement has been welcomed by charities including the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children and NCH, Microsoft's internet rivals have furiously claimed banning chatrooms altogether was a short sighted approach that would force children to look elsewhere.All of the Microsoft's main rivals have today rejected out of hand the idea of following suit and have accused the company of a dereliction of duty, claiming that it is acting for commercial, rather than altruistic reasons."Walking away from chat rooms will only drive this underground," said Alex Kovach, UK managing director of Lycos.  "It is up to the big players such as MSN to offer 'safe' moderated environments.  With 25 million people online in the UK, chat rooms are not simply going to go away."Freeserve and AOL, the two largest internet service providers in the UK, also said  they would not countenance the idea of shutting their chatrooms. Rather than closing the services MSN should instead have invested in policing them properly, they claimed."We are somewhat bemused that MSN has managed to pull off something of a PR coup with this announcement, whilst giving the impression of being respectable and responsible, our own view is that what they are doing is nothing short of reckless," said a Freeserve spokeswoman.AOL said it had shut its "open" chatrooms earlier this year and now only provided the service to its own customers, for whom it has registration and billing details."It's better for kids to go to moderated chat areas. We have no intention of closing our chatrooms, and pushing kids out," said Camille de Stempel, AOL's director of policy. AOL had child safety features and parental controls included as part of the subscription to the service, she added.MSN said while it moderated its chatrooms to the best of its ability, there was no way of weeding out paedophiles and porn when it was used by over 1.2 million people a month. "Moderation is not 100% effective. This has nothing to do with financial reasons and everything to do with consumer safety," said Matt Whittingham, head of customer satisfaction for MSN UK."I was looking at one of our chat sites yesterday and a pornographic spam message went into a Harry Potter group. We got it down within a minute but the damage had been done. How realistically can you moderate every single message? The best solution is to close it," he added."It is right that MSN's irresponsible chat rooms be shut down but proper regulation and monitoring means children can have safe environments in which to chat online," insisted Mr Kovach, pointing out it had 97 moderators for its 100,000 chat users.For MSN to overhaul its chat rooms and comply with Home Office standards would be expensive. By switching them off Microsoft look like they're taking the moral high ground but in reality this is irresponsible," he added.Tiscali, the fourth biggest ISP, also added its voice to the chorus of protest, saying it was up to the industry to work with parents, MPs and charities to make chatrooms safer."Chat was one of the first innovations brought by the internet and shutting down chat is not the answer to child safety. Parents need to help their children navigate the internet safely," said Richard Ayers, portal director at Tiscali."The best analogy is letting your child walk home from school. Ideally you would walk with them yourself, but if you can't, you want them to walk with friends, take the safest route and if anything happens alert a responsible adult or policeman," he added.All of the portals and ISPs said they would continue to work with the all party internet group, through which they collaborated with the Home Office to produce a code of good practice earlier this year. However, they are angry that Microsoft chose to publicise its decision without consulting with the industry first."Had Freeserve been given the opportunity to consult with MSN on this issue, we could have worked with them to build industry-wide best practice and we are surprised by MSN's move because we know that like Freeserve, they were already working with the Home Office on this," said a spokeswoman for the company, owned by France Telecom's Wanadoo.But major internet players rejected Tory calls for the proposed Sexual Offences Act to be amended to make websites themselves responsible for any attacks which may take place as a result of paedophiles "grooming" youngsters through the web.Shadow home secretary Oliver Letwin today said he would be asking home secretary David Blunkett to amend the act to give courts the power to impose punitive damages on internet sites if they did not take reasonable steps to prevent grooming."While we are taking every step we can't make everything 100% safe. We will work with the relevant parties and, while we have a responsibility, it is a shared responsibility with parents, government and educators," said AOL's Ms de Stempel.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857
Microsoft is pulling the plug on all its UK chatrooms, used by more than 1.2 million people a month, amid growing concerns they are being used by paedophiles to find child victims.The company, which runs the world's leading internet service, has taken the radical step in a move which has been universally applauded by children's charities.Tens of thousands of chatrooms run by MSN - the internet arm of Bill Gates' Microsoft empire - will close on October 14. Subscribers will be given notice of the decision from today when they log on to the sites.Chatrooms have an increasingly tarnished reputation as they offer computer users a cloak of anonymity. They have been repeatedly used by paedophiles to groom young children for sexual abuse.A series of cases involving children abused by adults they encountered in internet chatrooms has precipitated Microsoft's decision. There have been at least 26 court cases in Britain involving child abuse   which have been directly linked to chatrooms.In June this year, Michael Wheeler, 36, of Cambridge, was jailed for three years after pleading guilty to 11 sex offences against young girls. He had abused two 13-year-olds after making contact with them via a chatroom.MSN UK said the move was to help safeguard children from inappropriate communication online.Gillian Kent, director of MSN UK, said: "Ninety-nine per cent of chat has been used appropriately by people. It is only a small number of people who abuse the service - but it is really serious abuse."There are spammers who use it as a way of peddling their wares - a lot of it porn - and then there are the perverts. We want to make msn.co.uk a safer place and we have been working on this for a couple of years with the children's charities and the Home Office. Because chat is open, it is open to abuse and we have had to seize the initiative."She said one in five people in chat rooms were spammers and there were a smaller number of paedophiles. "It is awful,   it is absolutely horrible," she added. "People have to be responsible for keeping themselves safe and just because people are using the internet at home, it doesn't mean it is safe."Earlier this year, the Home Office published the world's first code of good practice, which suggested chatroom operators should provide virtual panic buttons and prominent safety messages for child users to protect them from paedophiles.Yesterday, Paul Goggins, the Home Office minister who chairs the taskforce on child protection on the internet, said: "We welcome any development which increases the safety of children who use the internet. We are looking forward to continuing to work closely with Microsoft and other service providers as part of the taskforce on child protection on the internet."Together we are determined to ensure that a high priority is given to the protection of children in the services offered."
Freeserve, the UK's largest internet service provider, has hit out at rival Microsoft for pulling the plug on its UK chatrooms, accusing the US giant of cloaking a commercial decision in concern for children's welfare.The company, one of several expected to come under pressure to follow suit following Microsoft's decision to shut down tens of thousands of chatrooms, said today it was "very surprised" and "disappointed" at the decision.Microsoft announced today it would shut down all of the chatrooms, used by more than 1.2 million people a month, on its MSN site on October 14.But Freeserve accused it of making the well-publicised move because it wasn't prepared to invest in policing the chatrooms.The company said it had acted in the wake of growing pressure from MPs and children's charities for web portals to take action against the prospect of paedophiles posing as children and using chatrooms to "groom" potential victims."As a responsible leader we felt it necessary to make these changes because online chat services are increasingly being misused. These changes will help protect MSN users from spam and inappropriate communication," said the MSN UK director, Gillian Kent.The move has been welcomed by children's charities and the Internet Watch Foundation, the government-funded organisation set up to police the internet.But Freeserve, owned by France Telecom's Wanadoo, said today the move would simply force children to look elsewhere and could make the situation worse as they would end up conversing on less reputable sites."We know about the potential dangers of chatrooms and that's why we believe all responsible portals should invest in them. Chat is one of the most popular tools on the internet and it's not going to go away," said a Freeserve spokeswoman."All MSN is doing is forcing users to go elsewhere, potentially to non-moderated chatrooms with little or no protection," she added.Freeserve said  it would not be following MSN's lead, pointing out that it required all its chatroom users to register with the site so they could be traced."On top of this, we invest in proper moderation of our chatrooms for younger users so users always know there is someone in the chatroom watching out for them and their safety," it added."It sounds to us like MSN simply doesn't want to make this investment and we are not sure how this move sits with their web-based messenger tool which of course is a chat based service."MSN, the most popular site in the UK, insists that it has invested for years in chatroom moderators and also has a dedicated child protection officer but that the level of abuse of the chatrooms was such that it could no longer guarantee children's safety.In the US, the company plans to convert its chatrooms into a subscription service in an effort to weed out inappropriate use but a spokeswoman said there were no plans to follow suit in the UK, where the chatrooms will be closed down for good.Other major sites, including AOL and Yahoo!, will now come under renewed pressure from charities and MPs to close their own chatrooms. However, AOL will point to the fact that it closed its "open" chatrooms earlier this year and now only provides the service to its own customers.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857
MSN UK announces today that it'sgetting rid of its chatroomsin three weeks' time. The company is blaming spammers and paedophiles for polluting the chatrooms and forcing their hands. It's certainly a bold move, although not one that's being universally welcomed... we'll have more on this in tomorrow's Online.
Two of my favourite bloggers get back in the saddle after prolonged (for them, at least) absences.Tom Coatesfinds inspiration in dangling David Blaine ("hardly the most auspicious reason to get myself back into the weblogging habit" he admits, but give it a go - well worth a read). AndBen Hammersleyhas finally surfaced in Florence, lucky chap that he is, and is suffering from a delicious sensory overload in that most beautiful of cities.
The death knell has sounded for online chat rooms following a series of high profile cases which have led to the world's leading internet service taking drastic action. Today, messages will be posted on all of MSN UK's internet chat sites informing users that services will be withdrawn on October 14.The decision will affect 1.2m people in the UK who use the chat rooms every month in search of romance or friendship. But the chat rooms have also been targeted by paedophiles who, protected by the anonymity the chat rooms provide, seek to groom vulnerable children. A series of unpalatable stories directly linking chat rooms to assaults on young children has further sullied their reputation.Earlier this month, a 15-year-old schoolgirl was allegedly raped in Wigan by a man whom she had met through an internet chat room. The teenager was tricked into meeting the man after he claimed to be a teenager.A former US marine has been charged with abducting a 12-year-old girl who he met in an internet chat room. Toby Studabaker, from Michigan, sparked an international manhunt in July when he and the youngster disappeared. He said when arrested that he had thought she was older.John Carr, director of the NCH's children and technology unit, said he had witnessed an increase in the number of child abuse and child pornography cases over the last few years."When I first started to work in this area seven or eight years ago, there were one or two child pornography cases per month and one or two child abuse cases per year," he said. "Now there are child pornography cases going through the courts virtually every day and the scale of the child abuse cases has increased over the last year."Here we have the world's leading internet service acknowledging that unmoderated chat cannot be made completely safe for consumers and children. It marks the end of open access to unmoderated chat and it will bring an end to the abuse of anonymity."Mr Carr said that although there were concerns about displacement of users on to other sites, action needed to be taken. He hoped every other chat provider in the UK would reflect on how, or whether, they continued with open access chat.MSN will continue to operate its chat rooms in America, but customers there will need to provide a credit card number and billing address before they can log on.Childnet, the children's internet charity, supported the move. Stephen Carrick-Davies, its chief executive, said: "At a time when exciting virtual environments are being created with a blur between the boundaries of public and private, we must ensure children are always safe."The news will serve as an important wake-up call to other providers - especially those seeking to offer interactive services on new mobile phones - who will need to consider very carefully the child safety measures and whether they should offer such services."Childnet acknowledges online chatting can offer entertainment and educational benefits but it argues this needs to take place in more protected environments.The NSPCC's internet safety expert, Chris Atkinson, said it would help close a major supply line for sex abusers who go to great lengths to gain access to innocent children by grooming them online."For too long we have been told by the internet industry that chat rooms are global and that nothing could be done to stop their escalation and their use by adults who target children," she said. "MSN is showing that this is not the case, and we hope other internet service providers and chat room providers take similar action to allow children to use the internet safely."Michele Elliott, director of Kidscape, said: "People need to know that there are some very scary people out there in chat rooms."But Rachel O'Connell, director of the cyberspace research unit at the University of Central Lancashire, voiced a note of caution. Research by the unit last year suggests that one in five nine- to 16-year-olds use chat rooms and one in 10 chat room users have met in person someone they have communicated with online. More worryingly, threequarters of those who went to meetings were not accompanied by an adult."This knee-jerk reaction will precipitate a knee-jerk reaction among teenagers," she said. "I think it is completely naive to think that if we take away all the public web-based chat facilities that kids won't want to chat, although a smaller proportion will be stumped for a little bit. It will create a ripple effect and a far more complex set of problems."It will displace it into a mobile phone environment. At least with personal computers we have been telling people to put them in their living rooms. But this will create a domino effect."How to stay out of troubleAll users&#183;Chat is carried out in a 'room' in cyberspace, usually with a topic theme&#183;Rooms are generally public so that anyone can join in. For safety, never move on to chat in private&#183;Remember the risk: there is no way to check the identity of people in the room&#183;Keep yourself anonymous and on the move. No personal details; and change your Profile and Chat Nickname often&#183;Links sent by other chat users may open sites that you'd rather not seeParents&#183;Ensure that young children do not chat in unmoderated chat rooms and try to spend time familiarising yourself with your children's chat room habits&#183;Never allow a child to have an unsupervised face-to-face meeting with anyone they meet onlineChildren&#183;If you receive anything from a random stranger telling you not to tell your parents, do the opposite and tell them straightaway&#183;It's best not to pretend to be somebody you're not. If you do pretend, remember that some people can read between your lines and will play along for their own reasons
Birmingham students are to act as hi-tech guinea pigs, exploring new styles of learning with mobile phones and the latest computers at the university's Centre for Technology and Distance Learning (Cetadl).A partnership between Microsoft and Birmingham University was announced today by Charles Clarke, the education secretary, with the company providing software and £150,000 in cash to promote research into new learning styles. He was accompanied by Mark Greatorex, group director of platform evangelism at Microsoft Ltd.Professor Mike Sharples said the two-year-old centre pursued research and development in new learning as well as new technologies and was run as a club of innovators.The centre already runs a successful course for autism carers, blending printed materials, video and a website which allows discussions and sharing experiences. Numbers have risen to 400 and drop-out rates have been very low, said Professor Sharples.A masters programme on epilepsy run jointly with Dublin uses videoconferencing for lectures and tutorials and even for exam invigilation - students writing in Dublin were supervised from Birmingham.Professor Sharples said the new technology meant a specialised masters course could be viable by combining different centres.The partnership with Microsoft would look at more informal learning and group projects. More than 30 undergraduates on an engineering degree course would use the latest "pentablet" computers for collaborative working.For Microsoft there is the chance to get its software used by students, as well as ideas spotting. There will be no interference with publication of research findings, according to Professor Sharples. "It's been remarkably easy so far. There is a huge business opportunity as well as a huge educational opportunity," he said.Microsoft, which also funds work at Cambridge and Wolverhampton universities, has its eye on a global market, said Stephen Uden, education relations manager. "We are intensely excited about moving from the rather dusty lecture theatre with handout notes to something more collaborative," he said.
The value of lost sales to the music industry from file sharing networks such as Grokster and Kazaa will nearly double over the next five years to $4.7bn (&#163;2.8bn), according to a report published yesterday.The study by Informa Media said revenues from retail sites such as Amazon.com and legitimate download services such as Apple's iTunes will rise from $1.1bn in 2002 to reach $3.9bn in 2008. But internet piracy will continue to blight a music industry that saw global sales fall by 7.2% last year, the report warns.It predicts that so-called peer to peer networks, which allow fans to swap files containing songs over the internet, will evade the legal clutches of the record industry. The value of lost sales will rise from $2.4bn in 2003 to $4.7bn in 2008, despite the launch of legal services by the big record groups and the threat of lawsuits against people who download music illegally.According to Informa, CD sales will account for $2bn of the predicted $3.9bn in legal online music sales in 2008, with download and subscription services accounting for the remainder.Simon Dyson, the author of the report, said file sharing sites were now adapting to the crackdown on piracy by giving more anonymity to users."We belive that peer to peer file sharing will still be going in 2008. The likes of Grokster are changing their emphasis from ease of use to providing anonymity, making it difficult to see who you are, where you are and what you are sharing."The focus on anonymity comes amid a controversial crackdown on internet pirates in the US. This month, the Recording Industry Association of America filed 250 lawsuits against consumers for allegedly breaking copyright laws by downloading music illegally.The move was criticised after it emerged that the RIAA had served a writ on 12-year-old schoolgirl Brianna LaHara; her mother settled the case with a $2,000 payment.
Baltimore Technologies, the Irish software concern whose spectacular rise and fall epitomised the boom and bust of the dotcom era, reduced itself to little more than a cash shell yesterday by selling off the core business on which its fortunes were founded.The internet security company, which failed to find a buyer after putting itself up for sale this year, said it was selling its loss-making public key infrastructure, or PKI, operation to the American-controlled business beTRUSTed for &#163;5m.PKI is used to make e-business secure and was the core technology behind Baltimore's heady but brief elevation to the ranks of FTSE 100 corporations before the dotcom bubble burst two years ago.At the height of its fortunes the Dublincompany was valued at more than &#163;5bn and employed about 1,500 people.The PKI sell-off marks the completion of a controlled programme of asset sales that has raised almost &#163;21m over the past couple of months and will leave Baltimore with only a handful of employees in its head office and legacy technology support functions."It is the end of the story of Baltimore as a software company. This is the final paragraph of the final chapter," chief executive Bijan Khezri acknowledged yesterday.Mr Khezri, who left Baltimore in 2000 and returned the following year to oversee its restructuring, said shareholders would have the opportunity to vote on what course the company should take by the end of this year - possibly at an extraordinary meeting to approve the PKI sale in November.Options included returning cash to shareholders, allowing another business to reverse into the company, or making an acquisition."This transaction is our last significant asset disposal and will deliver on our commitment to eradicate operational cash burn and maximise shareholder value," he told shareholders.Baltimore shares fell 4.5p to 36.5p on news of the sale - a far cry from the &#163;13.50 peak scaled in March 2000.The PKI business - which includes hundreds of customers in the government, telecommunications and financial markets - generated revenues of &#163;19.3m in the year to last December but ran up losses of &#163;11.1m before interest and tax.Mr Khezri said the need for scale in the global infrastructure software market made the PKI disposal an obvious move. "The long term competitiveness of the PKI business requires critical mass, and beTRUSTed has emerged as an excellent partner to take our PKI technology and customer base to its next level."Up to 80 of the PKI's 180 employees are expected to transfer with the business to its new owners. A few more will be retained by Baltimore but the company warned that about 60 staff face redundancy.The new owner, beTRUSTed, said more than three quarters of its clients had made significant investments in Baltimore's PKI technology, which it had implemented and operated for many years."We believe beTRUSTed's ownership will provide the necessary stability and support for existing and prospective clients to build and deploy critical business applications that leverage Baltimore's technology," said the company's chief executive, John Garvey.
Picturesof the Virginia Tech PowerMac G5 cluster being unwrapped. 1100 G5s. In rows.
After a weekend trip to Scotland, negotiating Britain's notoriously accident and bollard-strewn roads, I was left pondering a lot more than my stupidity in not having booked a cheap airline flight north instead.I had quite a lot of time, mostly as a passenger in completely stationery traffic, to wonder just what happened to the promise of mobile data.Part of the problem, of course, is my SPV phone - it is a "smart" phone, the first I've ever owned that crashes, and it has a boot time akin to my old laptop.It was acquired cheaply (for £30) in the summer, but I suspect that I may end up paying for it, in a whole set of ways, right up until the end of the year's contract I had to sign to buy it.I could forgive the crashes. I could overlook the fact that I drop around one in three calls as the phone rings because it's so easy to accidentally divert them, even when the keypad is locked, to answerphone.Then there is the slowness, the little user-interface bugs that frustrate so much, and the error alert that is wont to blast, at speakerphone volume, out the earpiece as you press it to your ear.But most frustratingly, especially when all you can see is three lanes of red tail lights snaking into the distance, is the paucity of mobile information available, even when the phone is working perfectly.Trying to get time-critical information - in my case, traffic news - far enough in advance to avoid troublespots is a case study in frustration, an unholy union between patchy service availability and bad design.The bad reception is a straightforward enough problem: when you are on the move at any speed, most mobiles get a little interference from bridges, cuttings and so on.Trying to get data across on that kind of signal, when it sometimes isn't even good enough for a voice conversation, is going to be tough. A human brain, after all, is much more adept at filling in the blanks in a conversation  ("w ... l  b ... home ...  a ... midni ... t")  than a mobile is at spotting the gaps in a stream of ones and zeros.You can't put too much blame on the operators for that, especially when resistance to new mobile masts is huge. But do mobile operators compensate for the reality of the conditions their users are in? Not enough, it seems.On Orange, getting to the relevant traffic information page through the company's SPV portal requires you to snake through multiple screens, laden with decorative graphics. While all this is happening, you're praying that you do not lose the connection completely.The fact that you are actually paying for all this stuff adds a pinch of salt to the wound. The month after getting my new phone, I watched my mobile phone bill double.Much of that expenditure could be attributed to little mugshots of celebrities in the entertainment section that I don't read, or downloads of the Orange logo that I scroll straight off the page the moment it loads.Operators could simplify the pages: strip out the branding, get rid of the silly pictures, and offer more direct routes to the good stuff. That is something that would work across the networks, whatever the subject matter.Why wouldn't they do that? Maybe they think the graphics look good. Maybe they don't care. Maybe, we might wonder more cynically, there is no incentive for the networks to cut page sizes when users are paying them for every graphic widget and unnecessary photograph that they download.We would all be happier if networks were extracting our hard-earned cash for some wildly inventive services. For the stuff being served up to customers today is often little better, and sometimes a lot worse, than a cut-down internet.Even if the networks just aped the best of what is already out there, things would be better. The RAC's Route Minder service, for instance, can fire out relevant text message updates after you have told its website where you plan to go.The charge for that is £35 per year: they could probably extract even more if mobile networks used the information they have on someone's whereabouts to further target the news and offer suggestions for an alternative route.Not exactly rocket science, is it? After all, there are already services on the web that have that kind of functionality, or at least portions of it.But the mobile companies, apparently clueless about what to do with this new platform they are creating, combine with the limitations of the technology itself to stand in the way.That's bad news if they ever want us to do more than take the odd picture message, and continue using our mobiles mainly only to make phone calls.And it's bad news for us as we sit among the bollards and still traffic of a British Sunday night, wondering what happened to the promise of mobile data and vowing to plan ahead and fly next time.
ExtremeTechhas a round up of last week's Intel Developers Forum in San Jose.Comment: although it is all about Intel PC developments, many of the technologies eventually end up in Macs too, such as USB, PCI and Serial ATA.
"The Japanese unit of Microsoft Corp. has begun giving away CDs containing a full set of updates for its Windows XP operating system partly in response to prompting from the Japanese government after a recent series of virus and worm attacks," reports theIDG News Service. "The company began the giveaway at World PC Expo, Japan's biggest personal computer exhibition, which began in Chiba, outside of Tokyo, on Wednesday. Dressed in caps, red t-shirts and camoflage pants, the company's 'security patrol' had handed out 25,000 copies of the CD by the end of Thursday, said Akiko Yamaguchi, a spokeswoman for Microsoft Ltd. in Tokyo."
Two chief execs spoke at OracleWorld: ZD Net lets you watch the video clips and votehere.
Ten years ago it was the still the stuff of fantasy. James Bond might have been able to get a video message on a device hidden inside his hairbrush, but for most of us in the 1990s the closest we got to mobile video was a flickering picture on one of those portable 1in screen TVs. 
Fast-forward to the 21st century and it's a different matter. After spending a cool &#163;22.5bn on third generation mobile licences, operators like 3 have begun unrolling devices and services offering users anything from comedy and animations clips to football highlights and porn, all direct to their mobiles. But as 3 struggles with coverage, battery and handset problems on its way towards its optimistic year-end target of 1m users (it has just 150,000) a raft of new mobile video services on existing phones is springing up. Using 2.5G rather than third generation technology to deliver everything from football to porn, these new services beg the question: "Do we really need 3G?"Last week Vodafone revealed the fruits of its year-long negotiations with the Uefa Champions League, a three-season package of video clips, match data and ringtones for users of its Live mobile network. Based on a revenue share model - neither side is talking figures except to deride reports of &#163;7m to &#163;9m as "risible" - the deal kicked off with last Tuesday's thrashing of Panathinaikos by Manchester United, if you live in Holland, Spain or Greece, that is. Promising roll-out in the UK soon, Graeme Ferguson, head of business development and content for Vodafone Global, said the service's combination of video, text, pictures and ringtones will be a hit with the company's 2 million global Live subscribers. "Our message is that you don't have to wait for 3G, you can do a hell of a lot on 2G."Ferguson says Vodafone Live subscribers can watch the video clips as long as they have a video-enabled phone such as the Sharp GX20. How much Champions League action you get, however, has yet to be set. Vodafone says it will vary from country to country although anything longer than 30 seconds looks unlikely. In some areas users will download the clips, much as they do on 3's Champions League and Premier League service, in other areas it will be streamed. It is Vodafone's second video-over-mobile deal in as many   weeks. Just days before the Uefa one was announced this month the company also announced that it was teaming up with BBC Wordwide to offer clips of 1970s comedy Fawlty Towers to Vodafone Live users.Aiming for a much bigger market however is Oplayo, the Finnish technology outfit and developer of a technology that enables video to be streamed to lower cost handsets. "Essentially any colour screen phone bought since the start of the year that can run Java should be able to support the Oplayo product," says the company's UK chief Philip Bourchier O'Ferrall. Independent figures and those from mobile giant Nokia predict there will be 11m of those handsets in Europe by this Christmas and 55m globally by the end of 2005, rising to 210m by 2008.Looking at those sorts of numbers it's not surprising that Microsoft is getting in on the act. Earlier this month the computer giant signed a deal with Oplayo to bring its latest all-singing, all-dancing media-playing software Windows Media Series 9 to low cost mobile phones. While the deal should be good news for Microsoft's mobile ambitions - O'Ferrall predicts the pact will give   Microsoft access to around 10 times the current market share of rival Real Technology - Oplayo already has around 30 commercial customers using the software to deliver mobile video without the need for 3G. They range from the predictable adult content outfits such as Playboy and Private Media through to news providers like Reuters. "Our customers are fully head on against the 3 service. We've got far more content and far more handsets," O'Ferrall claims.Not surprisingly 3 says its service is streets ahead of rival 2.5G offerings, pointing out that third generation networks and handsets have been built specifically to transmit large amounts of high speed data, including bandwidth-hungry video, to mobiles. "It's designed to deliver what we are delivering - unique mobile video content; whereas 2.5G is really just a bolt-on to an existing technology," says 3 spokesman Ed Brewster.Aside from 3G's clear advantage in one key area of the video stakes - you can't make a video mobile call on a 2.5G network, while 3 has just introduced international video mobile calls at &#163;1.50 a minute - Brewster says video over 3G is a much better consumer experience. "We are delivering most content at between 84 to 128Kb a second compared to 2.5G at around 46Kb. The   clips from our Champions League games are 2 to 2.5 minutes long not 30 seconds and the frame rate is between 15 to 20 frames a second while with 2.5G the rates are under 10 frames per second and the sound isn't as good. They're just putting much smaller files across and if the network is busy the speed drops dramatically," he says.Vodafone, which is expected to launch its own 3G service in the first or second quarter of next year, admits there are speed and quality limitations with 2.5G but says they are a "long way" from becoming an issue. Ferguson admits 3G's higher frame rates give a "richer" video experience where "you can see more action-based video without it breaking," but says Vodafone will gain market share by delivering content to "mass market handsets rather than fully loaded phones."In contrast O'Ferrall suggests that for most mobile users, used to paying anything up to &#163;2 to download a single image, video quality isn't an issue as long as it's watchable. "Most people haven't seen mobile video on a small device before so if you say to them for the same price as downloading an image of their favourite model or popstar you get a 30-second video clip then that's going to represent value."He cites the example of mobile video operator Flix and the Daily Star, both of which were sending video to high-end Symbian phones typically costing around &#163;300 prior to transmitting to Java phones which can be bought for as little as &#163;100. "When they were running with Symbian-only handsets they were putting out between 400 to 600 video streams a day. After introducing video to Java phones they are now up   to between 3,000 to 5,000 streams a day charged out at &#163;1.50 a go. Consumers are obviously coming back for more."While the current version of Java is "watchable", he says, the next version due out in time for the Christmas market will offer video at a quality that is "better" than a dial-up internet connection. "You have to take what Joe Public is happy to watch. If it's the right content they'll watch it. Content churn is the key particularly in certain types of content where people just want to consume more and more." While Vodafone is putting its faith in football, O'Ferrall suggests the biggest selling mobile video content is porn with other top sellers including Jackass-style comedy clips. "People want to be entertained. Right now it's comedy and adult content that's doing it. People don't seem to care about football or goals."If he's right then it's bad news for Vodafone and 3 which are both counting on the sport to deliver subscribers. Vodafone says football is one of the few forms of content that will increase market share, while 3 maintains that football is one of its bestselling downloads alongside news, comedy clips and movie trailers. It won't, however, say how many clips its customers are downloading. Come the end of the Uefa Champions League, if Vodafone releases its own football clip downloads figures, 3 might well be forced to as well. This would then provide the industry with a better indication of whether fans are content with "watchable" video clips sent over their current networks, or whether they simply can't manage without &#163;22.5bn of 3G technology and the James Bond-style face to face video calls that go with it.3 bets on MTV contentTomorrow morning on buses and trains, plenty of people will be talking and texting on their mobile phones, a few will be checking email or getting the stock prices. But the occasional one will be watching the entire live performance of Radiohead's hit Just (You do it to Yourself). That mobile user will be enjoying the first day of a two-year, &euro;2m deal between the 3 mobile network and MTV.MTV video is the latest attempt by 3 to attract 1 million users by year's end, from 155,000 at the end of August. MTV content is priced per download, from 50p for two-minute video news to &#163;2.50 for live performances. MTV has created four video "channels" updated three times a week for 3 phones - a news service; a latest hits channel; a "live" performance archive; and a wrap-up of MTV's week.Already 3 users can download Premiership and Champions League football clips plus Monty Python sketches, ITN news, star interviews, film clips, and video wallpaper. Football is said to be the big draw. But with a brand as big as MTV linked music could rival it."MTV is a leading brand and a partner at the level and quality of content that we think is important," says Ed Brewster, spokesman for 3.It wouldn't give numbers, but 3 says the usage is "growing". Observers say 3's new customers are a result of lower cost voice pricing and handsets, not of video features. "Video has been seen as one of the new applications that will pull more revenues from subscribers, but it   doesn't look like subscribers have been too interested," says Stephanie Pittet, a mobile analyst at Gartner Group.Despite this, Pittet believes offering the latest single from Kings of Leon will attract an audience, but she is less sure how long the novelty factor will last. "How often and how much will you pay?" she asks.The problem for 3 is that Orange, Vodafone and others' 2.5G networks can do all the things 3 can, except send high-quality video clips or streamed video calling content. And Vodafone is likely to launch 3G services next year, so video phones won't be exclusive to 3. Backed by Hutchison Whampoa, 3 seems committed to a long game."In five years' time you will say 'can you believe you didn't used to be able to make a video call,'" says 3's Brewster. "This technology is built to deliver high quality video which is what distinguishes us from GPRS (2.5G) phones.""We haven't done deals with 2.5G operators yet because the clips they can run are very short with ropey picture quality," says Dave Sibley, vice president and general manager of MTV Europe marketing partnerships. "But I would anticipate more deals as the operators change their networks." MTV will roll out the service in other 3 markets in Europe in the next few months, watching usage closely. "We have had to go back and negotiate rights from the record labels for mobile and we are all waiting to see how big a market this turns out to be," says Sibley.KB
From smaller wireless TV cameras to whizzy new on-screen programme guides, the products and prototypes on show in Amsterdam last week will influence how we look at TV and use our mobile phones in the future. Some two years after the dotcom crash, the world's broadcasting industry has gone through some lean times, but the post-tech crash reality check has spurred more innovative products.Microsoft showed off its new video player technology, which will make it easier to download music and TV programming to PCs, TVs and mobile devices. The recently resurrected UK cable giant NTL was demonstrating a networked home system using digital radio signals to wirelessly move a personal CD music collection and photo album from the PC to the TV and even to an in-car system. "You can put your album of your holiday on the TV and show granny," says Simon Mason, head of new product development at NTL.The International Broadcast Convention has always been about unveiling new technologies, but products, prototypes and profit potential on display from the major companies was more firmly planted in reality than in recent years. For example, the long-promised savings of switching from analogue to digital systems have moved from the drawing board to the show floor."We've been an industry dealing in tape in various forms for ever," says Craig Dwyer, marketing director for BBC Technology. "Now there are new ways of recording and storing media."The BBC was displaying small wireless TV cameras for lower-cost news production, and next month the corporation plans to add simple text services for people listening to BBC radio through their Sky TVs, and there is also discussion about adding text to TV programming. It's all part of a realisation that people are watching TV while they are also doing something else, perhaps checking their email or listening to the radio.The new offerings from the more than 1,000 company stands were not limited to giants like Sony and Panasonic, but included smaller players like Norwegian company Pronto-TV, which had in a corner of its booth a video-on-demand (VOD) TV system sitting on a rolling rack that altogether was not much bigger than a washing machine. The low-cost technology is based on open-standard technology, including Linux software, that has been sold to hotels in Europe and used to power on-demand TV on a cruise ship, but now the makers are talking to cable and telephone operators about using it to bring VOD into the living room. In the UK, the VOD company Home Choice has struggled financially partly because of high equipment costs."VOD has been delayed because the equipment and the roll-out is too expensive," says Pronto TV CEO Jon Bohmer, adding that he hopes to have some residential trials of his service running by the end of the year.
NTL Broadcast's prototype system for taking content from the PC to the TV and on to mobile and in-car devices involved a series of joined-up laptops and used Microsoft's Windows Media 9 Series player and digital audio broadcast (DAB) technology to move the content around.NTL's head of business development for broadcast media solutions, Terry Howard, says that he is looking  for companies willing to commit to the system before NTL produces anything. "The technology is there, but it's about having the right business model," he says. One of the first takers for this, according to Howard, could be mobile operators such as Vodafone and Orange, which need to be able to expand the services they offer their subscribers without building expensive 3G wireless networks. "What we can offer with this technology is mobile broadcasting which is a lot cheaper than 3G," he says.NDS, the technology arm of News Corp, was showcasing a new, on-screen i-betting technology as well as an e-ticket technology to prevent the piracy of copyrighted content. "These are things that are really useful for the broadcasters," said Jesper Knutsson, managing director of Visionik, an NDS unit.In its most recent bid to extend its software dominance beyond the PC desktop, Microsoft announced at IBC that the video-compression software underlying its Windows Media Series 9 player has been submitted to the Society of Motion Picture Engineers, a break in tradition for the software giant, which likes to keep control of its technology. Microsoft wants to make its player a standard on set-top boxes, satellite broadcasts, internet-delivered services and consumer electronics, where it lags rivals like RealNetworks and Apple Computer. In the UK, Capital Radio and NTL Broadcast will begin a trial next month using the Microsoft player technology to test 5.1 surround sound on digital radios.There were also many examples of technologies that help turn telephone networks into TV systems, offering customers another way to get video services either on their TV through the phone line or on their PCs. Tandberg TV's CEO Eric Cooney says his company already makes these kinds of products and he is putting "significant money" into developing this technology further. "Today only 5% of my revenues are in telco video but it has great potential,"  says Cooney. "I"m convinced there is a business model and a sense of urgency from the telcos because they need to make sure that they stop losing customers to cable TV companies."And for the financially-challenged European cable TV operators, a product from US company Bigband Networks was on show that claims to allow operators to upgrade their systems from analogue to digital at a fraction of the cost of other technologies. This could help cable systems to launch new and better services faster in Europe.
The proof of any service provider is in the service it provides, and not all experiences with online banks are happy ones - even with something as relatively simple as a savings account.Clive Dutson of Warwickshire was less than satisfied when he tried to open an account with Dutch-based bank ING. "I tried to open an account on its website only to find it has the most stupid implementation of Quickaddress I have ever seen, which was incapable of accepting my postal address," he explains. He called the helpline number and was promised an application form in the post, but when this arrived it had an incorrect address for him already printed on it. "I tried ringing ING again, but after several minutes on hold I gave up, deciding that if this was how it treats potential customers, I couldn't bear to be a real one."But some people have much more positive tales to tell. Ronald Anlauf, a marketing consultant from Buckinghamshire, was attracted to the Coventry building society's Netsave account because of its interest rate and accessibility. He opened the account, which currently pays 3.75%, just over a year ago. "It was a very simple and straightforward process," he says, "and it didn't take long. I have had no problems running the account, either."Ronald reckons the only negative aspect to some online accounts is that they lure customers with headline rates which are then lowered a few months later. This is not an issue with the Coventry account, though, as the rate is guaranteed to be no lower than the base rate until at least the end of February 2004.
Banking can be a hassle - unless you're online. Internet banks are open 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, usually offer several options for withdrawing and depositing money, and pay better rates on credit balances than most high street banks. No wonder Datamonitor recently reported that the number of online accounts in the UK was 10 million in 2002 - and predicted that this will rise to 11.5 million by the end of 2003.Where can you operate them from?Several bricks and mortar banks offer customers the option to operate their accounts online, either exclusively or alongside branch, post and telephone options. But accounts that have been predominantly designed for online customers tend to offer much more generous interest rates on credit balances, even if you choose to operate your account offline, whether by phone or in branches. Alliance &amp; Leicester, Citibank, IF and Cahoot all pay the same rate regardless of how you use your account, though the amount of offline operation can be restricted.For example, the Cahoot account allows you to make deposits into your account through branches of the Post Office, as well as electronically - but you can't use branches of Abbey National for transactions, even though the ex-mutual owns Cahoot. Smile doesn't allow any offline operation at all, while A&amp;L and Citibank are happy for customers to use offline facilities, such as branch counter services, to operate their account.Online savings accounts can be more rate-restrictive, though. The Egg account, for example, pays 3.5% interest - but if you choose to operate the account by phone without a cashcard, the rate falls to 2%. Choose to have a cashcard as well and the rate drops further to 1.75%.Are they open to all?Not everyone can have an online account - you have to be at least 16 to open an Egg savings account, while most current accounts have a minimum age of 18. Cahoot and A&amp;L require you to be at least 21 before you can open one of their accounts, and Cahoot also takes only those customers who are UK-resident with good credit records.You might also have to pay in a minimum sum. Citibank, for example, requires you to either pay in your salary each month or deposit £2,000 initially, while Smile requires a regular monthly credit of at least £1,000.How do you open one?You don't generally need any special equipment - most systems will work from any computer with internet access, though you may not be able to operate an IF account from a Mac. Citibank has a facility on its site for checking whether your internet browser offers a high enough level of encryption for its service. Generally speaking, a Windows PC using Internet Explorer 5 and upwards will be fine for most accounts.     The process of opening an internet bank account is very simple. You will generally have to complete an online application form, which doesn't take very long and requires information about your address, age, nationality, residence, occupation and income. If you leave out information that is required or enter an incorrect value, the system usually prompts you to correct the mistake before moving on. Once this is done, you will generally have to provide proof of who you are before your account is operational - but the process varies considerably.With A&amp;L, for example, accounts can only be opened in branches, because a signature is required. With Citibank, you can either open your account at a branch and provide documentation at the same time or you can open an account online and send documentation through the post.IF - which allows accounts to be opened by phone as well as online - and Cahoot also require you to post proof of identity. "Most of the application process can be done online but documentation proving your identity must be provided," says Jennifer Blackwood of IF. "This is in accordance with anti-money laundering laws."Smile only accepts online applications, though it doesn't automatically request documentation proving ID. "We have a scoring system and if customers reach a certain score they won't have to provide any documents to prove who they are, though we do sometimes contact people for proof," says the bank's Duncan Bowker.How do you operate the account?Once your account is up and running, you'll need to remember certain details to access it - this usually involves a user ID, password and security questions such as your mother's maiden name, name of your first school or place of birth.If you run into problems, either while trying to open an account or at any point while using it, all the providers operate helplines where staff can talk you through the application process or sort out your query. For example, Cahoot's helpline can provide account details such as your current balance.A&amp;L can be reached by email and IF's customer services can also be accessed through a secure text-messaging service - this can be helpful if you want to keep your internet connection open to sort the problem but access the internet through your home phone. "This isn't interactive, though - customer services will ring you back rather than text you back," says Blackwood.
A chip technology that will be available within five years, code-named Vanderpool, will allow users to partition the processor inside their computers. In a demonstration, Otellini used a PC to beam an episode of "The Simpsons" to a plasma TV, while another Intel executive booted and rebooted a game with the same machine. "What we are doing is creating virtual machines inside the microprocessor," Otellini said. "You can run multiple versions of Windows or different operating systems," reportsCNet.
The debate surrounding the link between violent video games and violent behaviour has been catapulted back into the spotlight recently after two teenage boys aged 14 and 16 claimed that Grand Theft Auto III inspired them to open fire on a busy American interstate with a .22 calibre rifle.Blame for the incident, which left one person dead and several injured, has been well and truly laid at the door of GTA III's developer, Rockstar North, which is being threatened with a lawsuit for its alleged responsibility.It's not the first time that video games have been criticised in this way. In the aftermath of the 1999 Columbine High School massacre in Littleton Colorado, it was discovered that the young killers had played the computer game Doom.But despite the relatively easy accessibility of firearms in America, violent computer games, along with Marilyn Manson, became one of the scapegoats in a case where many people were understandably desperate to find someone, or something, to blame.Last year, a l9-year-old German student, Robert Steinhaeuser, shot dead several pupils and teachers during an exam. Steinhaeuser's apparent love of the famous terrorist-versus-counter-terrorist online first-person shooter Counter-Strike was touted in one German newspaper as being the "software for a massacre" and even claimed that that "the killer was trained by a computer game".But one factor that appears to predominate in news stories and features about computer games and violence is that the majority of people who cite games as a cause of real life crimes actually appear to know very little about them.Rarely are the people who actually know about the subject -  the gamers themselves - quoted in stories to speak up for computers games.Any gamer will tell you that the now nearly 10-year-old Doom, with its blocky graphics and lumbering monsters, is hardly likely to inspire a gamer to do anything more in real life than perhaps go and play a newer game.Gamer Tom Mayo sums it up: "On the one hand, it's certainly true that the designers of games like Counter-Strike want to make the enemy AI as realistic as technology allows," he says."On the other hand, the gulf between making an on-screen avatar shoot imaginary bullets at an imaginary soldier and actually going out, picking up a gun, pointing it at a human being, and pulling the trigger in the full knowledge you will end their life, is staggeringly huge."It's clear that there is still a great deal we don't know: about how playing computer games can affect people's mental state, at whatever age, and more importantly how they impact on someone who already has a multitude of other influences and grievances in their life.Steinhaeuser, for example, had been banned from taking the exam he burst in on. He also belonged to two gun clubs and had just received his licence.The interactive nature of computer games also makes them quite unique in terms of how they are perceived by players. Unlike a film, where you are passively watching characters in front of you, in a game you are the character and, to a certain extent within the confines of the game, you decide on how to act.Computer gaming has become something of the rock'n'roll of the 21st century; something enjoyed by the young that can be made into a scapegoat by those who don't really understand it in the same way.Therefore, if society really wants to get a clearer picture of what goes on in the hearts and minds of the players, it must first get a better understanding of the computer games they play.Chart: full price softwareOfficial UK Leisure Software Charts (c) ELSPA compiled by Chart-Track1) Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic (Xbox) LucasArts £37.992) Eyetoy: Play (PS2) Sony - £39.993) The Great Escape (PS2, Xbox) SCI - £39.994) Beyblade: Let it Rip! (PL) - £19.995) Dark Chronicle (PS2) Sony - £39.996) Madden NFL 2004 (PS2, Xbox, GC, PC, GBA) Electronic Arts - £37.997) Pokemon Sapphire (GBA) Nintendo - £29.998) The Sims (PC, PS2, Xbox, GM) Electronic Arts - £32.999) Norton Antivirus 2004 (PC) Symantec £39.9910) Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (PC, PS2) Take 2 - £29.99
A diary brimming with press conference invitations; a spare room overflowing  with products; ah, it must be September, the time when the world's gadget  makers focus on the serious business of launching new products for the  Christmas season.Yet away from the power briefings in the big London hotels, a host of smaller  names are attempting to get their gadgets noticed. Here's a round up of the  less expensive products I've recently played with, all of which deserve your  attention.Linksys WMA11B£160Philips has one, Sony has one and you can bet most consumer electronics  makers are working on one. So it is top marks to Linksys for beating the big  boys in becoming the first manufacturer to offer a wireless  entertainment-streaming device for the home. The WMA11B is a straightforward  concept in that it enables you to take MP3 files and JPEGs stored on your PC  and listen and view them on your TV set and home entertainment system. It  can function as part of a wired Ethernet system, or better still work  wirelessly over 802.11b. The system consists of a small cable model/router  style box with a large protruding aerial that connects to a TV/hi-fi using  S-Video or phono leads.It's not exactly plug and play, but after a  little help from the service department my TV boasted the device's menu  screen detailing how to access music and images. Scrolling through these can  be tricky, especially if you have a large number of MP3s. However, the remote  control that accompanies the adapter works well and allows you to zip  quickly though them. If you like surprises you can take the coward's route  and just have a random selection. The files appear in the same folders that  you have on your PC, although the adapter does allow the user to create  their own playlists.Even though the device was sited at the edge of my wireless network with  just 30% signal strength it had no problems in playing my music files.  Viewing JPEG images on the TV screen was a slightly more curious experience.  Once again you can select the images you want to view or run automatic  slideshow. You can do both simultaneously if you want.So the WMA11B works well. How often I'll be showing images on my TV is a  moot point, but it is great to hear MP3s in the lounge. I'd also like to  listen to Internet radio stations, but for this version of the adapter  anyway, there's no access to online streaming. Philips Sony and others will  have more sophisticated home streamers out next year that add net radio and  video to the mix. But this is great for starters.www.linksys.comCantor Mobile XDA£30 a monthIn what could amount to one of the bargains of the year, financial services  company Cantor Mobile is offering customers a free O2 XDA - the Microsoft  Pocket PC based smartphone/PDA. Even better is that already on board the XDA  is the company's superb new mobile software. A very clever use of GPRS  enables Cantor to offer rolling news and prices on the phone in real-time  with automatic refreshes every second or so. Trading stocks is also very  simple. Once a person has set up an account they can buy shares using just  two clicks. In addition to financial news, there's Cantor's sports service,  which creates a kind of virtual vidi-printer with updates of every booking,  penalty, goal and score. There's also a news video from CNBC updated very  hour.The catch? Users have to subscribe to O2's date service, which for £30  a month offers around 5MB of downloads. Also Cantor expects users to spend  at least £50 on stocks in 12 months. Users also get access to the XDA's  range of other features including e-mail, HTML web surfing, MP3 playback and  compatibility with Word and Excel documents.www.cantormobile.co.ukCrucial Hi-Speed 7 in 1 card reader£17Everything from PDAs to tiny phones now offer MP3 playback via a  memory card. But transferring large files, such as video or music, to a  card using one of those devices can be a long and trying experience. Much  better to invest in a smart card reader/writer to do the job faster and more  efficiently for you. One of my favourites is the new Crucial Hi-Speed 7in 1  reader. It's a very compact unit - imagine a thin cigarette packet. It also  covers all your smart cards with four slots that cater for MultiMediaCard,  CompactFlash Type I and II, IBM Microdrive, SmartMedia, Secure Digital,  Memory Stick, and Memory Stick Pro. Its USB 2.0 connector transfers files at  high speed and it will work with all Windows XP machines without the need  for any drivers. Best of all is the price of £17, which in our books makes  it an ideal stocking filler.www.crucial.com/ukTDK Outloud CD wallet£35If you haven't yet traded in your CD personal for an MP3 player this very  clever device from TDK is worth a look. It's a standard CD wallet with space  for 24 discs on one side and a thinnish CD player on the other. The neat bit  though is that it features NXT flat panels speakers powered by 3xAAA  batteries integrated into the case. It's unlikely to win any awards for  sound quality - there are better sounding travel speakers out there - but  for convenience factor it's hard to beat.www.tdk-europe.comAlba TRCD2000£35Fancy a bit of music while you shower? Alba's CD shower radio is a fairly  chunky unit that's home to a CD player and twin band tuner yet is not  adverse to a bit of wayward water (although total immersion finishes its  off). It can easily be hung up in the bathroom or mounted on its supplied  mini wall bracket. Sound quality is what you'd expect for £35, but then  again the acoustics of your bathroom probably aren't up to much anyhow.www.alba-radio.co.uk
Bill Gates, founder of Microsoft, is celebrating his 10th year as America's richest man after once again topping the rich list compiled by Forbes magazine.The 47-year-old chairman and co-founder of the computer software group is worth $46bn (&#163;28.5bn), up $3bn from a year ago as a result of an improvement in the share prices of dotcom stocks.After two years of decline, the list of America's 400 richest individuals, compiled for the 21st year by Forbes, registers a rise in their overall wealth. Even so, Mr Gates's fortune is still just under half of the $85bn he was worth at the height of the dotcom boom in 1999.Largely as a result of the revival of internet stocks in the past year, Forbes calculates that America's richest are now worth $955bn, an increase of 10% over the year.The share price rally had a significant impact on a number of executives in the hi-tech sector. Jeff Bezos's wealth rose by $3bn to $5bn after the Amazon internet company he   founded saw a tripling of its share price.Mr Bezos came in 32nd but his personal fortune is a trifle compared with those higher on the list, whose rankings are little changed on last year.Second place is still held by legendary investor Warren Buffett, who is worth $36bn. Third comes Paul Allen, another co-founder of Microsoft, who is estimated to be worth $22bn. Another Microsoft executive, Steve Ballmer, is in 11th place with $12.2bn.Places four to eight are shared by five members of the Walton clan who founded the Wal-Mart supermarket chain which owns Asda in Britain. Forbes gives each of them a personal value of $20.5bn, putting their combined wealth at $102.5bn.It also means that Alice Walton, daughter of Wal-Mart   founder Sam, and his widow Helen are America's richest women.Another family features high on the table - the founders of the eponymous Mars confectionery empire. Three members of the family are valued at $10.4bn each, earning them places in the top 20 of the 400-place ranking.Forbes calculates that to win a place in the rich list individuals need a personal wealth of at least $600m, which helped push a number of high profile Americans out of this year's rankings. The most notable is Gary Winnick, founder of now bankrupt Global Crossing.Newcomers to the list include secretive hedge fund managers Steve Cohen and Ken Griffin, as well as oil tycoon Patrick Taylor, who Forbes notes is using his $700m fortune to help send hundreds of students through college.Among other notable newcomers are Patrick Soon-Shiong, in 195th place with a personal fortune of $1.2bn. Forbes notes that the Los Angeles scientist is a self-made man as a result of his stake in   American Pharmaceutical Partners, which manufactures generic injectable drugs.He is one of 95 people on the list resident in California, which is now home to more of America's richest people than any other US state.The west coast of America is home to more of the country's wealthy than New York city, whose residents took 81 places the list when it was founded 21 years ago. This year 47 of the   400 reside in the city of New York.The magazine also tracked individuals who have had places in the list since 1982. It found that 54 are still on the list, four fewer than last year as a result of the deaths of philanthropist Walter Annenberg, newspaper publisher Edward Gaylord and property developer Samuel Le Frak.Motorola's Robert Galvin slid out from last year's 350th   place after a drop in his personal wealth.Forbes magazine forecast that Mr Gates's premier place on the list is secure. "Will anyone catch Gates? Not any time soon. Despite the technology industry's continuing woes, Gates is still $10bn richer than America's second richest man, Warren Buffett, and more than twice as rich than technology rival Larry Ellison &#91;founder of Oracle, at $18bn&#93;."
"Researchers this week identified vulnerabilities in two commonly used open-source software products. The more serious of the vulnerabilities affects Sendmail, an open-source program for managing e-mail. The vulnerability lies in the way the e-mail server software parses e-mail headers, according to Dan Ingevaldson, engineering manager for Internet Security Systems in Atlanta," reportsCNet.Comment: Yet another hole in Sendmail, the program implicated in the worst malware disaster ever to hit the Internet -- the Robert Morris worm, back in the late 1980s. If Sendmail had been a Microsoft product, they'd have fixed it a decade ago. Because there's a free version bundled with your average distro, this bit of security holeware continues to dominate the net, while the open source community remains embarrassingly unable to fix it.Some recent highlights:CERT Advisory CA-2003-25 Buffer Overflow in Sendmail Original issue date: September 18, 2003CERT Advisory CA-2003-12 Buffer Overflow in Sendmail Original release date: March 29, 2003CERT Advisory CA-2003-07 Remote Buffer Overflow in Sendmail Original release date: March 3, 2003CERT Advisory CA-2002-28 Trojan Horse Sendmail Distribution Original release date: October 08, 2002See also...
"Less than 24 hours after first being detected, the Swen blended-threat worm picked up steam Friday, gained a foothold in the US and the UK, and accounted for over 35,000 interceptions by e-mail filtering firm MessageLabs. Swen -- also called W32/Swen@MM, Gibe, and W32/Gibe-F -- masquerades as e-mail from Microsoft, and purports to carry a security update as its file attachment," reportsTechWeb.The e-mail exploits a bug fixed more than two years ago,here.
&gt;connecting to server...Current Host: Chris2Current Topic: How has the hotly contested Brent East by-election affected the future of the Labour government? Talk about the results here!Pashmina: no they back 2gether again nowHost_Chris2: is it the result you expected, piglet?Bronco: no they just broke up againcapitalistpiglet: not really. Then again, I'm not surprised by it eitherLadeezMan: the wedding is back on thocapitalispiglet: I suppose it shows that Labour needs to take stock. Then again, maybe not. The tories hardly look a threat.Host_Chris2: Pashmina what did you think of Brent East?Pashmina: dunno wots he been incapitalistpiglet: Brent East is an ethnically diverse constituency in north-west LondonPashmina: is heBronco: aint he a wirterLadeezMan: ur thinkin of brent eastwood ellisPashmina: OH NO BEN TOOK J.LOs DOGSBronco: no im notLadeezMan: their his dogsHost_Chris2: Yesterday Brent East had quite a significant electionPashmina: did he nowLadeezMan: you seem to know a lot about him Chris2Host_Chris2: ELECTION. I said ELECTION.Bronco: sound like a froidian slip to meLadeezMan: can u type a froidean slipHost_Chris2: it's not a freudian slip if you don't SLIPPashmina: dont be angery Chris2Bronco: wot would Brent sayPashmina: any update on ben &amp; jen broncoBronco: no but isabel has left virginia devastedLadeezMan: who r theyBronco: dunnoHost_Chris2: let's return to the topic peopleLadeezMan: which is wotHost_Chris2: you know very well what it isPashmina: i forgetBronco: me tooHost_Chris2: Brent EastPashmina: your obssesed!!!capitalistpiglet: I'm bored of Brent East. Let's go back to J.loPashmina: thats what ben saidBronco: lolHost_Chris2: very funny. who would like to be banned first?Pashmina: sorry Chris2. were just killin time til the next ben-jen reportHost_Chris2: Well I would appreciate an intelligent discussion of the Brent East poll. Big by-elections don't come along every day and I for one stayed up very late waiting for the results.LadeezMan: I'm not even gonna touch that one&gt;connection to server has been terminated...
Executives at some of the best-known internet names - Amazon and Ebay - have shot up the rankings of the super rich, according to an annual list of the 400 wealthiest Americans published today.In what has become an institution, Forbes magazine's annual ranking of mega-rich Americans shows internet stocks have made a comeback. Jeff Bezos, founder of Amazon, the internet retailer, added more than $3bn (£1.8bn) to his net worth with a tripling of Amazon's share price.David Filo and Jerry Yang of search engine Yahoo! nearly tripled their wealth, while the fortunes of Ebay's Pierre Omidyar and Meg Whitman rose almost 50%. Steve Jobs of Apple Computer moved up 44 places in the rankings to 78th.But Bill Gates, the founder of Microsoft, sits on top of the pile for the 10th year running with a fortune of $46bn, up $3bn on last year, which makes this latter-day Croesus worth more than the entire gross domestic product of Guatemala ($43.5bn) and Ethiopia ($43bn).In second place lies Warren Buffett, one of the world's most successful investors and a golfing friend of Mr Gates. He is worth $36bn, unchanged from last year. In a distant third place is Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen, his net worth rising $1bn to $22bn.This year's list - now in its 21st year - showed the fortunes of America's super rich growing after two years of declines. The total net worth of the top 400 rose 10% to $955bn this year from 2002.Forbes said the surge in collective net worth was largely due to gains in internet stocks and hi-tech fortunes. The gains are part of a continuing shift in wealth from the east to the hi-tech west. When the list was first published in 1982, there were 81 members from New York and 56 from California. Today, California boasts 95 Forbes 400 members, while New York has 47.
Ian Betteridgeasks, regarding Motorola: "How can a company that created the Star-Tac, one of the classic early mobile phone designs and for a while the hottest geek product in the world, go so wrong since then?"For me, the StarTac was when things started to go wrong for Motorola. I owned an early version of one of those phones; the dirty little secret about them wasthey sucked. The reception was so poor, I had more calls that cut out unexpectedly than calls that completed. They might have looked beautiful, but they simply didn't work very well, at least (I'm told) until later versions.By that point I was already lost to the company. Apart from a rarely-used tri-band phone bought second hand and on sufferance to aid working in the US, I've stuck to my vow never to buy a Motorola phone again. That said, the Microsoft-powered Orange SPV I picked up cheap in the summer appears to have inherited many of Motorola's crappy design sensibilities...
Persistent email spammers could face unlimited fines under new legislation announced by the government yesterday.From December organisations will need prior consent to send unsolicited emails to individual users, although sending messages to company email addresses will be exempt from the law.The legislation has been welcomed by companies, who see it as the first step in the fight against the many millions of unwanted messages that clog up email servers around the country.But anti-spam campaigners said the new laws would make little difference to individual users and will effectively legalise the spamming of company email addresses.Spam, defined in the legislation as "unsolicited email sent without the consent of the addressee and without any attempt at targeting recipients who are likely to be interested in its contents", has been growing exponentially over the past few years. Brightmail, a company that produces filtering software for internet service providers, estimates that up to 50% of global email traffic last month was spam, compared with 8% two years ago.The new legislation means that unsolicited emails or mobile phone text messages cannot be sent to users without their prior agreement or unless there is an existing customer relationship.Any organisation in breach of these terms can be reported to the office of the information commissioner, which has powers to then take the organisation to the courts. In the first instance, magistrates can levy fines of up to &#163;5,000. The organisation can also be referred up to trial by jury, where there is no limit to fines.But the laws only apply to mail sent from within the EU, which accounts for less than 10% of the total spam sent.Steve Linford director of the anti-spam campaigners Spamhaus said the fines were "laughable". Organisations intent on sending bulk emails to unsuspecting users would simply factor the fines into the cost of their work, he said.More worrying, he said, was that the legislation stops short of banning unsolicited emails to individuals in companies.The Department of Trade and Industry said: "It doesn't apply to business because in the consultations people felt email marketing was a useful business to business tool. We're not proposing to extend it ... but we'll keep it under review."Derek Wyatt, a Labour MP and chairman of the all-party internet group, says the legislation is the right model to adopt but that problems will arise with different approaches around the world. Of particular concern is the US position - there Congress is on the verge of allowing unsolicited emails to everybody with users themselves having to opt out if they do not want to receive the messages.Currently spam-mail comes from a relatively small group of individuals scattered around the globe. If mass emailing became legal in the US, the 23m small businesses there could all start sending bulk emails with no constraints. "That will cause an absolute nightmare," Mr Linford said. "It will literally end email."As a result, a delegation of MPs, led by Mr Wyatt, will travel to Washington DC in a few weeks to try and change the way Congress is approaching the issue.Mr Wyatt said the government had missed out on the opportunity to require filtering software to be installed on to computers. Mr Linford added that if opt in became law everywhere, then basically spamming would be banned. "At that point, we can mop up all the spammers using technology," he said.So far Europe has led the way in anti-spamming legislation - Italy has made spamming a criminal offence carrying a maximum three-year jail term. Australia is set to ban spam in the coming months.Net waste&#183;It is predicted that by February 2004 70% of all emails will be spam&#183;The vast majority of unwanted emails are sent by a core group of around 200 spammers who send at least 50m messages each a day. Their hit rate is one sale for every million messages&#183;The year-on-year growth of spam was 129% in 1999-2001, 261% in 1999-2002 and 300% in 1999-2003&#183;Adult material makes up 12% of spam filtered by Brightmail; financial help is offered by 14% of emails; improved internet access by 11%; products account for 20%; scams make up 10%; the remaining 33% includes health products, free holidays or offers of free psychic readings&#183;Top five spam emails according to Brightmail are:1penis enlargement2Viagra3prescription drugs4tech products5medical
They extol the virtues of modern communication to customers but staff at high street mobile phone retailer Phones4U have been banned from using one of the world's most prolific communication tools - email.John Caudwell, the chain's multi-millionaire owner, believes his 2,500 staff have been spending too much time sending and receiving emails and not enough time dealing face to face with customers."I saw that email was insidiously invading Phones4U so I banned it immediately," he said. "Management and staff at HQ and in the stores were beginning to show signs of being constrained by email proliferation - the ban brought an instant, dramatic and positive effect."He reckons that banning email will save staff up to three hours a day which translates to a saving of &#163;1m a month."Phones4U staff have been told to get off the keyboards, get face-to-face or on the phone to colleagues," he added.Mr Caudwell, who does not use email, said only internal email had been banned, customers will still be able to contact the company.Industry observers said the ban is the latest move by Mr Caudwell to rejuvenate Phones4U and take on the leading retailer Carphone Warehouse. He has been taking a more active role in management following the recent ousting of its managing director, Anthony Catterson.Over the summer Phones4U launched a &#163;20m price war, under the "phones 4 less" slogan and promised to match the price of rival retailers.Charles Dunstone, chief executive of Carphone Warehouse, said: "We trust our people to know how to use email properly."
"My phone has more buttons and features than Luke Skywalker's cockpit console. Trouble is, I think Darth Vader led the design team" writes Christopher Kenton inBusinessWeek Online. "I'm imagining violence. I've never had a phone I hated so much." Yup, he's bought a Motorola.
A book's acknowledgements are woefully under-read, but they often include revelations that shed new light on the accompanying text.Those for Dungeons &amp; Dreamers, John Borland and Brad King's book on the rise of computer game culture, do not disappoint."We set out on this journey together, sitting at the 21st Amendment brewery and restaurant in San Francisco, writing our first &#91;book&#93; outline on bar napkins," King writes in his effusive contribution.So far, so not very hi-tech. Later, though, King offers "extra special thanks" to his Palm i705 handheld computer, with which he transcribed interviews for the book.Here, in the introduction, the book's twin themes are laid out - the power of sociality and an interest in the latest gadgets and computer technology, not for how they look, but for what they can do .King and Borland have a knack of taking what could be seen as a dry subject and enlivening it by telling the story through the eyes of half a dozen or so colourful (for that, read wacky and/or geeky) characters, including computer game creator Richard Garriott, aka Lord British, who wears a homemade silver snake around his neck and lives in an "English castle" in Texas.These men (and they are all men) have helped to shape not only the multi-million dollar games industry, but have also created a new form that has taken its place in the cultural mainstream.The nub of the book is the overarching influence of the paper-based role-playing game Dungeons &amp; Dragons, hence the title."Scratch almost any game developer who worked from the late 1970s until today and you're likely to find a vein of role-playing experience," reads the introduction.Rather than the tabloid-esque caricature of the computer game addict sitting alone at his (and it is invariably his) computer in a darkened room, eschewing all human interaction, King and Borland illustrate that the origins of games lie in the social networks formed by the players of Dungeons &amp; Dragons and other role-playing board games.The technology is an enabler, but not the star of the show. "The people - the culture of the gamers - made the fun. The game itself hardly mattered. Technology allowed them to expand their pool of players beyond the artificial borders of neighbourhoods, dormitories and offices," they note in one chapter.The book also examines the charges laid against games in the wake of the Columbine high school massacre.King and Borland are careful to present evidence from both sides of the debate on violent computer games and their influence on adolescents, without explicitly coming down on one side or the other.Coverage of the issue of women and computer games is rather thin, however: there is reference to fears about negative images of women in games such as Grand Theft Auto: Vice City, but this argument is not fleshed out in the same detail.Hardened gamers may quibble with the way in which the authors look at the larger picture of games history through the lives of specific individuals rather than approaching the story via the technology itself.But King and Borland manage to make the book's language and themes accessible to someone who has never picked up a joystick, and it is all the better for it. Dungeons &amp; Dreamers may even enthuse gaming greenhorns to enter the virtual world.&#183;Brad King and John Borland will be live online on Guardian Unlimited to talk about their new book at 2pm tomorrow (Friday). You can post a questionhere
Until now, Motorola has seemed happy to leave the high-end smartphone market to rivals Sony Ericsson and Nokia. This week, however, it delivered a feature-packed handset to the market, the A920 available via the 3 network, and announced the impending arrival of another, the MPx200. Interestingly, the pair run different operating systems.The MPx200 is the first fruit of Motorola's deal with Microsoft to deliver a range of products - phones and PDAs - that use Windows Mobile operating system, which is the latest version of Microsoft's PocketPC-based software.Launched more than a year ago, Windows Mobile offers versions of Microsoft applications such as Internet Explorer and Outlook. It has received a lukewarm reception and has only appeared on the high-end SPV handset marketed in the UK by the Orange network.Aimed at mobile professionals, the &#163;230 MPx200 - available via Orange - features all the Windows Mobile applications (Outlook, Internet Explorer, MSN Messenger, Windows Media Player) that appeared on the Orange SPV, shoehorned into a   compact (48x89x 27mm) and lightweight (113g) clamshell handset.Motorola has also tackled several criticisms of Windows Mobile on the SPV by adding a faster (200MHz) processor and offering more memory (32MB Ram and 32MB Rom).Overall, the phone is a remarkable feat of miniaturisation. The 176 x 220 pixel 65K colour screen is just about big enough to enable users to read most internet pages. It also works well with POP3 email delivered via Outlook. Unlike the SPV, though, it limits users to one email account.Another neat touch is the phone's USB connector, which lets you recharge the battery simply by connecting the lead to a PC.There are, however, two key features missing. There is no integrated camera and no Bluetooth connectivity. Still, a smart clamshell phone with POP3 email and full web access as well as MP3 playback is a breakthrough. For users able to access familiar applications from the PC is also a plus. But quite how big the market now is for a phone without a camera is anyone's guess.At the opposite end of the size spectrum is the A920, which uses the Symbian OS version 7.0 and has just gone on sale this week through the 3   3G network for around &#163;100.It is a huge phone with a large touch screen - 40 x 60mm, 208 x 320 pixels, 65K colours - that can be used in both portrait and landscape modes. This enhances video playback and gaming. In terms of video performance, rated at 24 frames per second, it is far superior to 3's other handsets. For both video calling and viewing downloaded Premiership football highlights, this delivers a huge improvement in quality. Even when video fills the screen in landscape mode, it is largely free from glitches and dropouts.Its other headline facility is its location-based services, using GPS to deliver on-screen maps and directions to restaurants, pubs, cash points and petrol stations etc. It performs well and had no problems finding the short cuts from my home to a nearby pizza restaurant.Other features include an MP3 player, downloadable games and a digital still image camera.While the phone is sure to set gadget-lovers' pulses racing, its appeal to business users is more limited. It offers POP3 email facilities, but these are only available via 3's browser, which is not straightforward to use and doesn't work outside 3's video coverage area.Annoyingly, while the phone has a built-in web browser, 3 limits internet access to a limited number of sites. Also, although the handset uses the same operating system as the Sony Ericsson P800, most of the third party applications for that handset won't work on the A920.As a way to showcase the potential of 3G and, in particular, its video and GPS services, the A920 is superb. Yet its size and lack of full web access and email means we are still waiting for that perfect 3G phone.
By any measure, Ruth Bowen should be on the connected side of the digital divide. The 51-year-old teacher from north Somerset can get free access at home, and her husband and son are both users.But Bowen chooses not to log in. "It's not something I need to do," she says. Bowen is one of those exercising "digital choice", as it is christened by academics. And she is not alone. Research to be published tomorrow by the Oxford University Internet Institute says that just 4% of Britons lack any kind of internet access. In other words, most of those offline are opting not to log in.The findings are sure to reopen debate on the digital divide, and its key assumption: that people who don't use the internet are held back by cost, by poor telecommunications links or by inexperience. What if they just don't want to go online?The research, carried out for the institute by ICM, involved interviewing more than 2,000 people. It finds that 88% of Britons say they have access to the internet through a local library, 77% through an internet cafe and 75% through a mobile phone.However, the research shows that just 59.2% are current users of the internet, 34.7% have never used it and 6% are former users, having tried the net for, on average, between nine months and a year. This means that among the former users and the never-users are a significant number, like Bowen, who have the time and means to go online but choose not to."I have tried &#91;the internet&#93; a couple of times," she says. "I found it doesn't give me the nitty-gritty information I want." Once, she tried to find a local stockist for some guttering that   needed replacing. She found a site for the manufacturer. "The site went into all sorts of things," she says, including a section in German. But she couldn't find a local stockist or a phone number. "They wanted me to buy something straightaway, or they seem to expect me to know more than I do," she says.As a result of this and similar experiences, Bowen no longer bothers with the web. She doesn't feel she's missing anything, and she's not alone. Among those who have never used the internet in the Oxford research, just 1% think other people had trouble contacting them because they were offline, and only 0.7% believe they had been disadvantaged in seeking work or changing jobs.These figures remain low for lapsed users, with 3% answering yes to the contact trouble question, and 2.3% to the query on changing work.Of those in work, 78% of the former users and 83% of never-users believe going online would make no difference to how well they did their jobs. In both cases, those who thought it would help were nearly equalled by those who thought it would hinder their effectiveness."I write and I ring, so I keep in touch with lots of people," says Bowen. "I think &#91;going online&#93; would stop me doing this, as it's not personal enough. I haven't got time to sit at a cold machine - I would rather chat or write a letter."Professor Richard Rose, senior fellow of the Oxford Internet Institute and director of Oxford Internet Surveys, says of those offline: "They don't see it as useful. I think the non-users are open-minded, but would rather be shown that 'it's useful' than told 'it's high-tech'."A typical non-user is in his or her   50s and still in work. Rose says such people sometimes act as a "proxy user" if they have a good reason, perhaps asking their children to work the technology. Bowen asks her husband, and they have bought hard-to-find music and books online. The survey data shows that 6% of non-users have had someone make a purchase online on their behalf, 7% to send an email and 13% to find information. Of those who have made no such request, 54% know someone they could ask if the need arose.Women are slightly less likely to be online, according to the Oxford survey, although among pupils and students there is no difference, with 98% of both genders using the internet. Apart from age, education seems to be the biggest differentiator. Just 22% of retirees in the survey use the net, but this rises for 60% of those educated to university standard, and falls to 13% for those without GCSEs or O levels.Beyond lack of motivation, there   are other factors keeping non-users offline. When ICM asked non-users to comment on the statement: "I would be uncomfortable with lack of face-to-face contact when ordering on the internet," 48% agreed, while just 32% of non-users said they didn't know. On most similar questions, the don't know figure was at least 45%.However, when lapsed users are asked this question on face-to-face contact, those agreeing and disagreeing are nearly the same, and among current users, rather more disagreed (45%) than agreed (30%).Rose says that most people can get used to automated systems such as cash machines, but may fear them until they become users. "The non-users prefer to do things the way they have always done them. It's a matter of habit," he says.There was more resistance when ICM asked people whether they agreed with the statement that: "People who go online put their privacy at risk." Among non-users,   only 35% had no opinion, 4% disagreed - while 54% agreed. For lapsed users, the proportion of those agreeing rose to 65%, and for current users it was 54%.Bowen shares concerns about privacy and issues of control. "I'm wary after hearing about all these child sex cases," she says, mentioning reports of a woman who accidentally opened a pornographic website, couldn't close the web browser so turned off the computer. She was traced by police and arrested. "Her children were taken away for three months," she says.She is similarly nervous about spam. "You can tear up something that arrives through the post, whereas if it goes into the computer's recycle bin, you find you haven't deleted it."For regular users, pornographic websites that won't close and spam emails with X-rated suggestions become grubby facts of life, but imagine how they look for a new   user - especially given reports of apparently ordinary users being arrested for viewing child pornography. "I'm quite nervous about making a mistake because I'm not computer literate. I fear I could do something wrong and ruin the rest of my life," Bowen says.However, Rose says users will put up with such apparent dangers if they have good enough reasons. "When people get online, they are less inclined to worry," he says, comparing it to flying: there are real dangers that receive huge publicity, but most users end up ignoring them.The UK findings are supported by research in other countries. Oxford University recently joined the World Internet Project, started by the University of California, Los Angeles, three years ago. At a July conference of the Project in Oxford, before the results of the UK survey were available, digital choice was a hot topic.Research by universities in east Asia found that in the most modernised countries, including Japan and Singapore, lack of interest was the top explanation given for non-use, compared with lack of equipment for urban mainland China."We are finding more use of the internet at home, but it's the less sophisticated professional," said Andreina Mandelli, of the SDA school of management at Bocconi University, Milan. "Managers, at the beginning, worked at home &#91;using the internet&#93;. They are trying not to do it any more." Her colleagues from Sweden agreed that those with high education and incomes preferred not to have computers at home.In the US, such European concerns about work-life balance were not   apparent, said Jeffrey Cole, director of UCLA's centre for communications policy. "America has a peculiar reason," he told the meeting. "Across the world, we've found fear, cost and lack of perceived need. In America, we find a small percentage, about 4%, who won't go online because everyone else is online.""Some people are excluded as a matter of choice," said Professor Bill Dutton, director of the Oxford Internet Institute, summing up the conclusions from the 15 countries involved in the project. "It's not going to be like television."Many organisations setting up services for the internet have assumed that it is going to be like television - that virtually everyone will become a user. According to the government's general household survey, in 2001, 99% of households had televisions.Rose says that internet ownership has a pattern more like car ownership. The general household survey found that 72% of British households had a car or a van in 2001. Rose says one can also see a gap opening between the broadband users and those using dial-up access - perhaps similar to the 28% of households with two or more cars, and the 44% with one.But as with the 28% of households without a vehicle, there are many people staying or turning off the information superhighway. "I think it consumes a lot of people's time and attention - it's anti-social," says Bowen.&#183;ICM interviewed 2,029 people aged 14 or over at home, from May 23 to June 28. Oxford Internet Institute:www.oii.ox.ac.uk
Colin McRae Rally 04Xbox, PS2, &#163;39.99 Codemasters, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Colin McRae himself is having a tough time this season - Citro&#235;n recently announced that due to rule changes to next year's World Rally Championship, it will not be retaining his services. If he does find himself with a lot of time on his hands, the videogame that bears his name will provide plenty of consolation.Colin McRae Rally 04 is, simply, one of the best driving games ever. This year's iteration boasts graphics and visual details that are simply astonishing and, more importantly, hitherto undreamt-of levels of car feel and driving realism.For the first time in a rallying game, bumps in the road really do unsettle the car, and even through a gamepad, you can feel the differences between surfaces and between two-wheel drive and four-wheel drive cars. Codemasters has added an awful lot of new features, which will please fans of the franchise.You can, for example, test car modifications between World Championship rallies, a process much like the driving test in Gran Turismo, so that if you complete your allotted (and invariably tricky) task, your car is fitted with the new part. Plus, you can participate in two-wheel drive championships and even a group B championship, featuring many of the legendary rally cars dating from the days when they could pack 900bhp.Countering criticisms that the previous version of Colin McRae Rally was dumbed down, there is a fearsomely tricky Expert Championship. So all potential buyers of the game   are catered for - and none will be disappointed (particularly by the superior-looking Xbox version). McRae still wields total domination over the virtual rallying scene, at least.Steve BoxerGhost Recon: Island ThunderXbox, &#163;19.99 Red Storm/Ubi soft, &#42;&#42;&#42;There's something slightly Puff Daddy about the way Tom Clancy's name appears on most of Red Storm's games. Admittedly, he founded the studio but his personal hand is barely visible in the likes of Splinter Cell, Rainbow 6 or Ghost Recon.Island Thunder - the latest in the meandering Ghost Recon series - is another proficient slice of arcade strategy, albeit a thin one. Using the same engine as before, IT is a standalone mission pack, adding eight new single player missions and 12 more playable over Xbox Live.This time round, the setting is a fictional post-Castro Cuba, a pleasant change to the usual Equatorial or Russian climes, but effectively no more than a new set of 3D textures mapped on to the same old gameplay. You still get two three-man teams, mostly the same weapons and objectives, and the same mechanic of controlling one unit at a time.Admittedly, it's still fun when a fire fight breaks out, but you tend to rely on teammates for cover or "spare" bodies when yours is killed. When it   comes to planning moves in advance, the tactical options are limited and the map is tricky to use.As a multiplayer game, some of these limitations may be overcome. Imagine unreliable AI being replaced by up to 16 "real" cohorts and the game takes on new life. How successful it is depends on how many players log on to Xbox Live to find out - hard to gauge at the time of writing.Mike AnderieszWorld RacingPC, &#163;19.99 TDK &#42;&#42;At &#163;19.99, World Racing is a tenner cheaper than most new release PC games. Sadly, you get what you pay for. World Racing is a bog-standard racer, recommended only to die-hard Mercedes fans. Featuring off- as well as on-road tracks, the main attraction is the choice of motor. The majority of Mercedes' current production line are available to drive, as well as a stack of classic and racing cars, but the difference between most of the vehicles is negligible.Going off-road doesn't affect your drive as much as it should, with rivers and trees less of a barrier than expected. The AI of your competitors veers from driving school to Schumacher, with little in between. The graphics are pretty good. The tracks are big and varied, and the countryside offers tempting exploration.Greg Howson
Handheld computers cover a very wide range of capabilities at prices ranging from &#163;10 to more than &#163;500. At the low end, there are simple digital diaries and address books that you can buy cheaply on the high street. At the high end are systems with built-in Wi-Fi wireless or GSM telephony, which you can use as electronic organisers and games machines, and music and movie players, or put to serious business use.Some handheld devices are more or less dedicated to specific tasks, such as playing MP3 music files or collecting company email. And if you are going to buy a Creative Labs Jukebox, a RIM Blackberry or whatever, you don't need to know or care which operating system it uses. It comes down to features and price.But some handhelds are platforms, and only fulfil their potential if you   can load applications or plug in extra peripherals such as network cards, hard drives, or even a full-size PC keyboard and monitor. Platforms are much more versatile but also more complex and harder to use. You will have to do some research to make sure you can get the programs and peripherals you may need.The handheld market is split between Palm OS machines, mainly from Palm and Sony, and ones running Microsoft's PocketPC software from Dell, HP, Toshiba, Fujitsu-Siemens, NEC, Packard-Bell and others.Palm became the market leader with simple, monochrome devices that concentrated on ease of use. Microsoft challenged Palm's dominance with more expensive, but much more powerful, multimedia systems that pioneered voice recording, music and video playback, and high-resolution colour screens. More recently, Palm   and Sony have responded with handhelds that have comparable power and multimedia features to PocketPCs, but at comparable prices.Out of the box, the PocketPC is good for web and Wap browsing, collecting email and instant messaging. It can also be used as a terminal and for virtual private networking (VPN). It comes with "pocket" versions of Word and Excel, a Windows Media Player, synchronisation software, and a copy of Microsoft Outlook for your Windows PC. If you need all this, a Pocket-PC may be cheaper than it looks. If you don't need it, it has no real value.Today, the Palm remains the clear winner if you want a reasonably priced Filofax replacement, and low-end Palm OS machines have two big advantages over PocketPC devices: the choice of many thousands of applications; and long battery life. Palm is also the standard choice for Mac sup port. However, the PocketPC wins at the high end, particularly for business users, and offers excellent handwriting recognition. If your needs are somewhere in between, try both and see which you like.However, you have to ask yourself if you really need a PDA at all. Rather than carrying a handheld and a mobile phone, many people are now finding that a smart phone offers all the organiser functions they need.
Apple chief executive Steve Jobs unveiled a new range of faster, cheaper professional notebook computers this week, as well as a wireless keyboard and mouse, but flew away from the Apple Expo in Paris without answering the one question on the lips of most attendees.Amid the fuss surrounding the expected updates to the PowerBook range, the issue of when Apple's pioneering iTunes music store would arrive in Europe hung over the show - and continues to be unresolved.The store, which lets users download tracks by leading pop and classical acts for 99 cents a time, has been a huge hit in the US since its launch on April 28. Apple announced its 10 millionth download last week.Some in the music industry have gone so far as to hail the service - with its liberal copyright protection and a la carte approach to music - as being the future of the music business.But Jobs made no mention of the music store in his keynote speech to 3,500 Mac fans at the Palais des Congr&#233;s on Tuesday morning. Only later did he acknowledge there would be delays to the store opening, as first reported in Online last month, admitting that negotiations with record labels are continuing. "Obviously, we're hard at work on it," he said. "I think we'll do it next year." Record industry sources insist the store is unlikely to appear before next spring.Jobs said a version of iTunes for Windows users, which is expected to lead to a huge increase in revenues for Apple, will arrive - only in the US - before the end of the year.The company's music business,   which revolves around the iTunes store and the iPod music player, is becoming increasingly important for Apple, which has aggressively targeted niche markets as its share of the overall desktop computer market has fallen below 4% worldwide. Jobs announced the company had sold 1m iPods in the past 20 months, with 304,000 sold since the music store opened in late April.Jobs, dressed - as ever - in his trademark black turtleneck, blue jeans and greying sneakers, was more keen to talk about Apple's long-standing strength in laptop computers. He said the "year of the notebook" he had announced in January was being reinforced by the new PowerBook lineup.The new machines sport faster processors and speedier peripheral support, and Jobs said he hoped they would help push Apple towards a goal of selling as many laptops as desktop systems. Currently, laptops make up around 43% of Apple's sales.Phil Schiller, Apple's senior vice president of product marketing, said the growth of the laptop market was sparked by new wireless technologies, broadband and the increasing power of notebook computers. Customers who did not want the clutter of a second desktop computer were looking to notebooks as a compact alternative, he said."The capabilities of portables have really broken through," said Schiller. "Things like the size of the hard drive and burning optical drives means there are real benefits. Notebooks have become much more personal to us. "I can check my email on the couch and, because of the wireless connection, even in a multi-computer family, we're not competing for internet use."The likely top-seller of the new range is a new-look 15in PowerBook, which replaces the popular Titanium PowerBook first launched in January 2001. The aluminium-clad laptop has a bright 15.2in widescreen display and souped-up connectivity, including Airport Extreme (Apple's name for 802.11g wireless networking), Bluetooth, USB 2.0, FireWire and Gigabit Ethernet.A backlit keyboard that reacts automatically to light conditions is also fitted - a feature that had PowerBooks being shrouded from the Paris show's bright lighting.The recently introduced 12in and 17in PowerBooks are upgraded, with the 12in getting a faster 1GHz G4 processor and speedier internal components, and the 17in being fitted out with a 1.33GHz G4 processor and double-speed, CD and DVD-burning SuperDrive. Both are fitted with the USB 2.0 port that is quickly becoming a standard for connecting high-speed peripherals to PCs.Jobs also showed off the next version of Apple's operating system, Mac OS X. First launched in 2000, the company has produced a major revision of the system every year since. The latest, code-named Panther, is due to arrive before the New Year.Features include improved user switching, making it easier for multiple users of shared Macs to leave their applications, files and preferences secure and untouched while away from the machine, and switch back with a few clicks and a password.Jobs also demonstrated a video and audio chat system, built on top of its existing iChat instant message application, which allows Mac users with FireWire video cameras to hold video   conferences over broadband, or users with microphones to hold audio chats over a 56k modem.Panther will also boast a new graphics system called Pixlet which, claimed Jobs, will produce "the highest &#91;graphics&#93; resolution on a PC", and rapid processing of PDF files at   several times the speeds of rival Windows systems. The new system also adopts a more Windows Explorer-like method for browsing files, drives and remote servers.&#183;Neil McIntosh was one of a party of UK journalists taken to Paris by Apple.
Update timeThe MS Blaster worm rapidly infected many Microsoft Windows XP, 2000 and NT users when they connected to the internet last month. Their systems were vulnerable because of a flaw in the Remote Procedure Call (RPC) utility, for which Microsoft had published a patch on July 16. Now we may be due for a re-run. Microsoft has found even more holes in this ancient bit of RPC code, and has published another patch to deal with them. Following the success of Blaster, it seems likely the new-found flaws will also be exploited. To avoid becoming a victim, read Microsoft Security Bulletin MS03-039, posted on September 10, and download the appropriate patch fromwww.microsoft.com/technet.A glance at the list ofsecurity bulletinswill show that there are embarrassing holes in Visual Basic for Applications, DirectX and other programs, and there is a cumulative update for Internet Explorer (MS03-032). Under the circumstances, the best approach is probably to go to Windows Update - there is a link on the Start menu - and download all the patches marked critical. Windows XP users using the AutoUpdate feature should find these have already been installed.Incidentally, the current version of Windows Update is much more sensitive to the use of proxies and caches, including The Proxomitron pop-up blocker. Last week, I updated two machines, both running Proxomitron: one worked correctly but the other gave an update error   (0x80072F76) until I removed Proxomitron from the loop.Mac to PCThe powers that be have decided to migrate me from a Mac to a PC, and I'm now going through the process of transferring my files. However, being an Outlook Express user, I cannot see how I can transfer my account to full Outlook on the PC.Jonathan GrantJack Schofield replies:This can be a tedious process, but Bill Wright has written some scripts and instructions to help people move mail from a Mac to a PC, or vice versa. You can download them from OEexporter/ Importer atwww.emailman.com. However, the fundamental problem is that most mail programs save messages in their own format instead of using the internet standard, RFC-822.Matt Hovey has therefore written Emailchemy, which translates various types of email into RFC-822 format. A useful side effect is that you can move email between many popular mail programs by first translating them into RFC-822 format. Seewww.weirdkid.com/products/emailchemy.  You could also look atSig Soft's NameCleaner utility, which deals with the general problem of changing Mac filenames to make them usable on other types of machine.Bye IEI have been using the Mozilla web browser but I can't seem to get rid of Internet Explorer. Is it integrated into Windows XP?Oliver MorrisJS:The US Justice Department consent decree, which Microsoft signed in 1994, allowed it to "integrate" products but not to "bundle" them, so unfortunately it integrated Internet Explorer. But as a result of the recent settlement, you can hide it. When you install Windows XP Ser  vice Pack 1 (SP1) or Service Pack 1a (SP1a), Windows adds a feature called Set Program Access and Defaults to the Add or Remove Programs tool. This lets you change the default programs for web browsing, email, instant messaging and other functions, hiding the Microsoft offerings. You can also specify which programs are available from the Start menu etc. For more details, see Microsoft Knowledge Base article 332003,How to Change Your Default Programs and to Enable or Remove Access to Microsoft Windows and Non-Microsoft Programs..Web watchingAre there any utilities that will let me know when websites I visit update their content?Avram Dumitrescuwww.geocities.com/onlineavramJS: There are several options includingWatch That Page. For accounts of that and some alternatives, see the articles on monitoring web pages atwww.rba.co.uk/sources/monitor.htmandhttp://searchenginewatch.com/searchday/article.php/2178631.Backchat&#183;Lots of websites will tell you which IP (Internet Protocol) address you are using. However, a surprising number of readers, including Keith Nixon and Ian Reissmann, suggest opening a DOS box or command prompt and typing ipconfig, or ipconfig all to get the full details. Ian McRobert suggests double-clicking the "connected" icon in Windows then click the Details tab. Steve Woods adds that if you run Microsoft NetMeeting and select Help and About Windows NetMeeting, "there's your IP address at the bottom of the dialog box!"
There's a conflict between Sony's Dream World - which is the name of its global trade show - and reality, but the company hopes it has figured out what to do about it.In spite of the huge success of the PlayStation 2, Sony is in decline. Its annual revenues fell from $63.5bn in 2000 to $56.8bn in 2002, and profits collapsed from $1.2bn to $115,000. It started to restructure its businesses in 1999, and has just embarked on the second phase, "designed to secure an appropriate level of profitability for a leading company".This will include launching more expensive and perhaps more profitable products. For example, the ultra high-end Qualia range will offer lots of new opportunities   for conspicuous consumption. It will also introduce more stylish desktop and portable PCs.But Sony's big idea is synergy. It is, as Nobuyuki Idei, Sony's chairman and chief executive said at Dream World 2003 in Paris earlier this month, which I visited as a guest of Sony, "both an electronics company and an entertainment company". It doesn't just manufacture toys for boys, it owns the second largest record company and a giant Hollywood studio (Spider-Man, Men In Black, Charlie's Angels etc).In Sony's dream world, you can play a Sony movie or a Sony game on a Sony games console plugged into a Sony TV set, with the sound coming from your Sony hi-fi. You can use the TV to show images from your Sony digital camera, camcorder or movie   camera, all purchased from a Sony store. You may soon be able to download files from Sony's online music service, probably in Sony's Atrac3 format to your Sony PC, and copy them to your Sony Clie handheld or Sony Ericsson mobile phone using a Sony Memory Stick or a Sony home network. And so on.Idei likes the games business: "The profit is huge, because it is controlled by us," he says. He accepts that no one can control the whole entertainment network, but Sony can offer integrated packages that include hardware, software and content.The prime example will be Sony's Net Music Download, which Sir Howard Stringer, boss of Sony Corporation of America, described as "following Apple but doing it ourselves". The point is not so   much the music as the computers and portable music players. "The effect of &#91;Apple's&#93; initiative was to sell a lot of devices," said Stringer. "We would like to sell a lot of devices."The problem is that what sells devices - easy ways to make and share high quality copies of films and music - is exactly what Sony's music and movie divisions hate. It's piracy. When Sony's service arrives in Europe next spring, following a Japanese launch, digital rights management will be the key.But it should be fun watching Sony and Apple, who both have proprietary genes, slug it out, because the winner should be the one that provides the best support for the vast majority of the download market: PC users running Windows.Useful linksSony Qualiawww.sony.net/SonyInfo/QUALIAwww.dynamism.com/qualia.shtmlNobuyuki Ideiwww.sony.com/SCA/bios/idei.shtml
