As many as 300,000 people could see their computers go offline on Monday, as the effects of an FBI battle with a gang of Estonian cyberthieves over a piece of malware called "DNSChanger" reaches its climax.People whose PCs won't connect to the net from Monday may have to call ISPs to figure out a fix, which will involve changing settings in their computer used to look up websites.Those affected, who will already have ignored multiple warnings from services such as Google, may find that task challenging; more skilled internet users will already have heard about the problem.The affected computers, whose numbers have fallen dramatically from around 4m among 100 countries during the malware's peak activity between 2007 and 2011, will be cut off because the lookup system they use to find sites online, called the DNS servers, will try to connect to computers formerly owned by the gang which are being shut down. That means that attempts to connect to any site will fail.DNS (domain name system) servers provide a core function of the internet. They translates an address such as "guardian.co.uk" to a numerical one such as "77.91.248.30" – so that typinghttp://guardian.co.ukinto a web browser has the same effect as typinghttp://77.91.248.30.The "DNSChanger" malware began spreading in 2007 and affected computers by changing the settings on PCs so that they would use the Estonian hacker ring's DNS servers to look up addresses, rather than those of the user's ISP or other services.Affected computers would be pointed to advertising sites rather than the ones requested, earning the hackers an estimated $14m (£8.7m).But the FBI cracked down on the scam, finally getting control of the hackers' DNS servers in November 2011. Six people were charged in November 2011 after being arrested in Estonia, and a seventh was sought in connection with the crimes.The agency set up "Operation Ghost Click" and spent two years tracking the gang using the DNSChanger malware, eventually seizing 100 servers in New York and Chicago that they reckoned were part of the command and control infrastructure used to control the "clickjacking" business."They victimised legitimate website operators and advertisers who missed out on income through click hijacking and ad replacement fraud," the FBI's Janice Fedarcyk, assistant director at its New York office, said at the time.However, rather than taking them offline at once, which would have left huge numbers of people in the lurch, the FBI took the unusual step of bringing in a private company to keep the servers running, and offered diversion schemes to warn people their computers were affected.The number of affected users has been falling steadliy, but the FBI reckons that there are still around 45,600 in the US, and between 250,000 and 350,000 worldwide.The original plan had been to shut down the DNS servers in March, but the FBI delayed that to allow more time for security companies and ISPs to warn customers.How to checkIf a computer fails to connect to websites, the FBI and other companies are offering a testing service athttp://www.dcwg.org/detect– but affected machines probably won't be able to connect to that from Monday because it requires a DNS lookup.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe Fantastic Machine that found the Higgs Boson &gt;&gt; The AtlanticThese are pictures to make you go "wow".East London's 20 hottest tech startups &gt;&gt; The ObserverBritish, obviously.Check whether your computer is infected with DNSChanger (no download needed) &gt;&gt; DCWGFrom those cuddly people at the FBI. Even so, it works.Amazon 'robo-pricing' sparks fears &gt;&gt; FT.comHigh-speed trading tools pioneered in the stock market are increasingly driving price movements on Amazon's website as independent sellers use them to undercut and outwit each other in a cut-throat online market place.Product prices now change as often as every 15 minutes as some of the 2m sellers on Amazon's site join the online retailer in using computerised tools - often developed by former data miners at investment banks - to lure shoppers with the best deals...Last year out-of-control algorithms inflated the price of The Making of a Fly, a genetics book, to over $23m, according to Michael Eisen, a biologist who blogged about it.Also bringing the risk of "flash crashes" where all the algorithms decide to drop the price at once.The bad science and greed behind the "intellectual property inhibiting innovation" argument &gt;&gt; The TrichordistDavid Clowery:For some time now the web/technology lobby has been arguing that copyright and other forms of intellectual property rights are stifling innovation.  And if you don't actually  think about it you might agree.  I mean it sound sort of like the argument against government over regulation. Having to get permission from all those IP owners.  And then having to pay them?  Bad for innovation!But is this really true?No. And  the evidence is right in front of us.Some powerful arguments in here - especially about whether it's still easier (or quicker) to get music legally, or illegally.Your RIM questions answered: CEO Thorsten Heins responds &gt;&gt; The Globe and MailA straightforward question-and-answer from Heins. Note how some perceive BlackBerrys as for "old folk", where as he points out it has a strong following among young users outside north America.Alan Alda and the Customer-Service Headache &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comIn which Alan Alda - yes, that Alan Alda - tries to get McAfee to stop quarantining his emails on a service he doesn't use or pay for.DNS Changer - how not to lose your internet connection on July 9 [VIDEO] &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityYes, yes, if you're reading this then you haven't lost it, but you might know someone who has.Amazon Said to Plan Smartphone to Vie With Apple &gt;&gt; BloombergAn unlikely new entrant appears to by eyeing up the smartphone market.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
It's nearly a decade sinceProject Zero&nbsp;2'soriginal release (with the "Crimson Butterfly" addendum), arriving during a voguish period for ghostly Japanese horror –The Ring,The Grudge,Silent Hilletc. Set apart from the pack, this tidied-up Wii remake – Nintendo still ignoring pleas to call them "Wiimakes" – is easier to appreciate: a mournful corridor-stalker that forces players to engage with its spectral terrors.The premise, made more unsettling by lost-in-translation logic and creepily stilted English voiceovers, sees twin sisters Mayu and Mio exploring a village emptied by an unseen tragedy. What stops this from being another bump-filled haunted house is the camera obscura, which enables Mio to exorcise angry spirits by literally capturing them on film. It's a brilliant touch. In a genre normally built on escaping danger,Project Zeromakes thrilling, wide-eyed confrontation your only hope.
It should come as no surprise that the Games have their own game. Every major and minor competition (yes, even darts) throws up a spin-off, butLondon 2012, like the Olympics itself, has a much richer heritage than most – from the beloved track and field titles through to the repopularised sports games on Wii and Kinect.Much of which is here, in the variety of events on offer: from the aforementioned track and field, to gymnastics, swimming, shooting and weightlifting. Graphically, we are in standard territory, and while there's an impressive scoring system to help gamers get into the Olympic spirit, the real treat is in the gameplay, with controls reverting to an old-school combination of button-bashing coupled with the need for perfect timing, which gives each sport its own distinct challenge and sense of achievement.Unfortunately, the requirement for skill makes the Kinect features feel like something of a bolt-on. Yet, at its core,London 2012is excellent, a throwback in many ways but with a new look, new sound and, in the run up to the Games, a new purpose.
An old man named Johnny lies dying. His last wish, for reasons unknown, is to visit the moon. Playing as two doctors from the mysterious Sigmund Corporation, you enter his mind and wander through his thoughts, uncovering the secrets of his life and, eventually, implanting and strengthening his desire to make a lunar voyage. It's a concept fans of the movieInceptionwill be familiar with, but here the focus is on character rather than spectacle, and the game is filled with themes of regret, love and&nbsp;loss.Gameplay, such as it is, is a relatively simplistic hunt for artefacts in order to facilitate leaps further back into Johnny's memory. Prior to leaping you need to complete a puzzle that involves flipping tiles on an image to reveal the full item beneath. There's not a great deal to it, but the real hook of the game is its emotional story which, revealed in reverse chronological order, has a weight and poignancy that competes favourably with contemporary counterparts on screen or page.Presented in charming SNES-era sprites, with a gorgeously evocative score that channels the melancholy and sadness haunting the narrative, this retail reissue of last year's indie smash marks a stunning achievement in gaming and is nothing less than a work of art.
Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim - Dawnguard, Xbox 360Dawnguard is the first downloadable extension to Skyrim, the super-epic surprise bestseller of 2011.In it you'll either help slay Lord Harkon and his vampiric horde or join up and lead the blood-sucking onslaught, gaining powers that include the ability to turn into a cloud of bats and telekinetically choke enemies, Vader style. Life as a nine-foot vampire lord isn't all giggles, though: you won't fit through many doorways, can't loot treasure chests, and your blood boils in sunlight. Rather inconvenient, especially for higher-level characters, it's a trade-off that won't feel like a terribly good deal. Whichever faction you opt for, you can wield crossbows and shoot them from horseback at new monsters including death hounds, gargoyles and legendary dragons in this 10-ish hour jaunt. It's nice to meet more Skyrim inhabitants and beef up the skills of vampires and werewolves, but with only a few extra locations to discover, Dawnguard is fun, but hardly essential.Bethesda, 1,600 Micrsoft Points (approx £13.60)Spec Ops: The Line, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360Spec Ops: The LineYou're Captain Walker, leading a three-man special forces team into the collapsing remnants of sandstorm-ravaged Dubai in search of the lost 33rd Battalion and its renegade commander. That means pinwheeling between chaotic sand-blown exteriors and shotgun-strewn interiors, using gun turrets and pointing out targets for your chaps in a scenario that almost redefines "well-worn". It's lifted by its setting, though, which makes superb use of the crumbling opulence, juxtaposing abandoned supercars and vast tropical fish tanks with the usual head-stomping, corpse-charring brutality, and also by its retelling of Joseph Conrad's Heart Of Darkness, delivering countless opportunities for Apocalypse Now references. While happy to take pot shots at designated targets, your team mates aren't particularly lethal. The shock of shooting American soldiers never manages to feel especially unsettling, but it's an immersive few hours nonetheless.2K Games, £39.99Games newsBeat The Beat: Rhythm ParadiseOther games out this week include Nintendo's superbly inventiveBeat The Beat: Rhythm Paradise(Wii), which mixes unhinged Wario Ware-esque mini-games with rhythm action;Tour De France 2012(Xbox, PS3), which does its best to make a game out of the gruelling, drug-fuelled toil that is the world's best-known bike race; repetitious budget priced zombie-stabber,Dead Island: Game Of The Year Edition(Xbox, PS3, PC) for those who haven't yet had enough of fighting legions of undead with inexplicably delicate kitchen knives; andJonah Lomu Rugby Challenge(Vita) brings egg-shaped happiness to Vita. Meanwhile Valve has releasedSource Filmmaker, the tool it used to create dozens of short films using the characters of Team Fortress 2. It's currently in closed beta but will soon be available to machinima fans everywhere.
Remember those annoying adverts that were around when this car came out a couple of years ago? "I&nbsp;am Giulietta," said a beautiful and coquettish-looking blond woman. No, you're not, you're Uma (Thurman). Even I know that. The car in the background is Giulietta. What's it all about? Perhaps the strapline will help. "And I am the stuff that dreams are made on."Eh,&nbsp;dreamon? It's Shakespeare? Classy. From The Tempest, though, and not – as you might expect in an poster for an Alfa Romeo Giulietta – from Romeo And Juliet.To be honest, it's probably advertising nonsense and doesn't mean anything. They're trying to make the car seem enigmatic and glamorous. So – in a rather outdated way – they got a pretty lady to stand next to it. And, perhaps to make it seem less 1980s motorshow, they stuck in a bit of Shakespeare, albeit from the wrong play. Pah, that ain't fooling me. They want me to think it's sexy, and to associate it with sex. They might as well have drawn an arrow to the trademark triangular Alfa grille and written, "Check it out, fellas. It looks a bit like a... you know... a lady garden. Tee-hee."Pathetic. Obviously, I don't buy any of that cars-are-sexy stuff. That's for sad men who watchTop Gear. People are sexy (well, some people are). Cars are cars. They can be pretty, though, and this one is that, especially in red. Looks like a&nbsp;coupe, even though it has five doors; nice curves, in the right places; plus a bit of whateverje&nbsp;ne&nbsp;sais quoiis in Italian.Hell, perhaps a carcanbe sexy, and the Uma Thurman connection isn't so crazy after all. Wrong, obviously (Boo! Sexists!), but not crazy.It's nice to drive, too, impressively powerful for a 1.4-litre engine, and responsive. Phwoar, handles well, if&nbsp;you know what I'm saying, lads. Wouldn't mind getting behind the wheel of that, hahaha. The new thing is a semi-automatic gearbox, so you can purr along in automatic mode, the missionary position of motoring, or change manually if you want to be more in control, using either the gear lever (gear lever!) or&nbsp;by slapping the paddles (ouch, stop it!) on the steering wheel. You&nbsp;can even change to "dynamic" mode to spice things up further. Well, hello.I've turned. I've become not just a&nbsp;sad man who watches Top Gear, but one who wipes the sweat from his brow and boasts of the great drive he had. Maybe Giulietta is the stuff that dreams are made of. Sorry, madeon."What's in a name? That which we call a rose, by any other name would smell as sweet..." Yeah, shut up.Alfa Romeo Giulietta 1.4 TV MultiAir 170bhpPrice£23,155Top speed135mphAcceleration0-60mph in 7.7 secondsCombined fuel consumption54.3mpgCO2 emissions121g/kmGreen rating7/10Cool rating8/10
Facebook has apologised after it mistakenly deleted a free speech group's post on human rights abuses in Syria.The social network on Friday removed a status update byArticle 19, which campaigns for freedom of speech, that linked toa Human Rights Watch report detailing alleged torture in the Arab country.Dr Agnes Callamard, the executive director of Article 19, accused Facebook of acting like "judge, jury and executioner" in the way it removes material from the website.Facebook did not explain to Article 19 why it had deleted the material, but told the Guardian that the post was mistakenly removed after being reported as containing offensive content.The original status removed fromArticle 19's Facebook pageread: "@hrw publishes a shocking report into #torture in #Syria including geo-tagged detention centreshttp://ow.ly/bZ6Yl^OS".The link directed people to a report by Human Rights Watch detailing 27 "torture facilities" which the group claims are being run by Syrian authorities.A spokesman for Facebook said the post was mistakenly removed by a member of its moderation team, which receives a high volume of take-down requests.Facebook said in a statement: "The link was reported to Facebook. We assess such reports manually and because of the high volume, occasionally content that shouldn't be taken down is removed by mistake. We're sorry about this. The organisation concerned should try posting the link again."But Callamard complained that Article 19 had received no explanation or warning from Facebook before it took the material down. The group only received a pop-up message that read: "We removed the following content you posted or were the admin of because it violates Facebook's Statement of Rights and Responsibilities".Callamard said: "The deletion shows the looming threat of private censorship. We commend Facebook for creating tools to report abuse, but if your post was wrongly deleted for any reason, there is no way to appeal. Facebook don't notify you before deleting a comment and they don't tell you why after they have. Facebook act like judge, jury and executioner."She added: "Facebook is now widely recognised as a quasi-public space and as such has responsibilities when it comes to respecting free speech. They can't just delete content without some kind of transparent and accountable system. International law says that censorship is only acceptable when it is clearly prescribed, is for a legitimate aim – such as for public health – and is necessary in a democracy."Facebook'slengthy terms of usestate that it can remove content if it believes "that it violates this statement or our policies" and for infringing someone else's copyright.
I'm typing this on a Macbook Pro with a "retina" display, and it's breaking my heart. Having used it as my main machine for the past fortnight, in a few hours' time I'll have to wipe the hard drive, find the cables, and send it back to Apple.The world is going to go fuzzy again. Is this what it's like for people who wear glasses when they lose them?OK, I'm back on my old machine now - with its standard display resolution of 1280x800 on a 13" screen. That works out to about 104 pixels per inch.Know what? It's pathetic.Here's the fact of it: with the "retina" display on the "new iPad" (aka iPad 3, aka the version released in January of this year), you had to put it side-by-side against another one to see the difference (something Gawker exploited wonderfully by giving people an old one and telling them it was a new one and filming their delight… and then telling them the truth).The difference on this display leaps out at you. It shouts at you. "Retina-optimised" programs (especially browsers, but text and film and picture editing too) leap out at you, and demonstrate the precision. It has 220 pixel-per-inch precision, and wow, it's really stunning. Pictures on websites can't do it justice, because they're on websites, and those are only 72ppi, typically. Even TV can't really show you.So here's what we'll look at...AppearanceTAG-1Flash drives: because you're going there anywayProcessing: there's fast, and 'already there'ThunderboltUSB 3.0No Ethernet?No lights?Good news, Windows users!Downsides (there's a few)User-unfixabilityUnready webPriceConclusionYou may have seen the photos and the TV pictures and shrugged. Nothing special, you think. Consider yourself lucky that you haven't used it for any length of time and then reverted to something older. I have. It hurts. Displays with a quarter of the resolution look as if they're smeared with butter. (Or margarine, health fans.)Ironically, I can't show you any screenshots demonstrating the difference effectively, because we only do pictures at 72dpi - not the 144dpi that the "Retina MacBook Pro" (RMBP from here on) offers. Well, I can contrast how it appears on a browser (Google Chrome) that doesn't take advantage of the RMBP's text rendering, against another browser (Google Chrome Canary - the bleeding-leading edge version of Google Chrome; I found it very solid).Comparing the same site in a "retina-ready" browser and one which is not. Click for larger version.See? There's a real difference. But that doesn't tell you what the experience is like.Or try this:Comparing text display between a browser not optimised for "retina" display and one which is. (Optimsed one on right.)No Mac? No problem, for a whileNow, you might not use a Mac, and have no interest in doing so. Even so, you're likely in the next few years to benefit from Apple's decision to showcase high-resolution screens on its high-end laptops, because there's a high probability that that will first start appearing on more high-end laptops in the Windows world, and then - let's hope - on the cheaper ones.But that's not the only way that the RMBP is leading the pack. It's basically a showcase by Apple for all the best things in laptops today. The display is the standout feature (obviously, since it's what you deal with), but that's not the only thing that's attractive about this machine.AppearanceIn terms of thickness, it's nearer to the MacBook Air (and "true" ultrabooks, hard though those are to find) than the MacBook Pro. In heft, it's not significantly heavier (2.02kg, 4.46lb) than an older MacBook (2.99kg). Again, it's in between the "standard" MacBook Pro laptop and the MacBook Air (1.35kg).The 15in screen, though, is bigger than you can get on a MacBook Air (only 11in and 13in there). And when you open the lid, the screen seems to fill the entire space; the glass reaches to the edges, and though the bezel is obvious once it's illuminated, the feeling of being immersed in the screen is very powerful. It's also bright.Phil Schiller, Apple's marketing chief, introduced it to an eager room of developers at WWDC in June by saying that the company had tried to imagine an "ultimate" machine, the sort of thing that will be commonplace in the future. That turns out to mean Flash drives only (not even an option of a spinning drive), no DVD drive, Thunderbolt and USB 3.0 connectors, an SD card slot, surprisingly powerful (and bassy) speakers. And that display. "The pixels are so small you can't distinguish the individual pixels," he said. "It's the world's highest-resolution notebook display."Flash. Because you're going that way anywayFlash drives are what you'll have in your computer in five years or so. Per-gigabyte prices aredropping precipitously, while those of hard drives have actually risenover the past year because of last year's floods in Thailand. Apple offers three configurations - 256GB, 512GB, and 768GB. It also says that the throughput is three times faster; I asked whether this was due to its (rumoured, but pretty much confirmed) purchase of Israel's Anobit last year. As is the Apple way, I got a blank stare, rather like someone who'd just had their memories wiped in Men In Black; they wouldn't say. It seems a good bet, though.Processing: there's fast, and there's already thereI never managed to stress the machine; the Ivy Bridge CPU and NVidia GeForce GT 650M graphics card simply laughed at my simple text ways. Really it's built for heavy-duty pixel-pushing such as video editing, and I did demonstration machines simultaneously running four HD video streams, and switching between them. If you wanted to do real-time editing in the field, this would be the machine to do it on. The fact that it also uses a Flash drive means you'll get a far faster throughput.ThunderboltOther laptop manufacturers have been reluctant so far to adopt Intel's Thunderbolt technology, which allows you to chain displays and hard drives together - rather like Apple's proprietary Firewire did (with hard drives and disc burners). It has a throughput of up to 10 gigabits per second (Gbps) and can drive multiple displays.USB 3.0Finally, Apple is offering this. (It's now also on its lower-end MacBook Pro models.) Nice to have caught up with the Windows fraternity - or majority. Apple seems to have ignored USB 3.0 so that it could focus on Thunderbolt. Now the latter is settled, it's catching up elsewhere.No EthernetWired connections are a thing of the past, apparently, or should be. You can buy a Thunderbolt-Ethernet adaptor/connector, but the idea that you'd connect your professional-class laptop to a wired Ethernet is apparently too retro. Ethernet jacks are too fat and old; only slim Thunderbolt jacks (able to shift up to 10Gbp/s, mind you) count here.No lightsThere are no lights on this machine. Since about 1999, Apple laptops have had a little light on the front which, when the lid is closed, indicate whether it is "sleeping" (in the Suspend state) by pulsing slowly. If there's no light, the machine's off.Here, though, no lights. (OK, there is a light on the power cord connector, to indicate whether the machine is charged or charging.) The assumption seems to be that you'll always put it to sleep, and it will never run out of battery before being reconnected to a power point. Apple suggests it'll get up to30 daysstandby time.The lack of a light makes no difference to everyday use - unlike spinning drive machines, where you needed to wait for the drive to spin down before moving it (in case you caused a head crash), Flash drives don't care about movement, so you can shut the lid and the "suspend state" data gets written whether or not the machine is moving.This difference is really interesting, especially when you compare it to many Windows laptops, which have blue lights, green lights, red lights - it's like the Las Vegas strip once the hard drive gets working. Perhaps we needed reassurance that the hard drive hadn't died in the old days, hence the lights. Now, it's lights-out.Good news, Windows users!Although you can install Windows 8 on this device, and it will run perfectly well, and the Windows 8 elements will be sharp, the text itself doesn't get the fine-grained sub-pixel rendering, according to PC Pro, who have been trying it out.But, equally, now that Apple has shown the way it's very likely that other PC manufacturers will follow, and try to push high-end machines with these capabilities. If they want to keep any clients in the photographic business they will, because once any of those use one of these for any period, they'll not go back to a normal screen.Well, it worked (eventually) with the MacBook Air, imitations of which (with Flash drives) are busting out all over in the form of ultrabooks. High-res displays are sure to follow as manufacture gets cheaper.Downsides: there's a fewIf you're buying this machine and you haven't yet got Thunderbolt, you'll need to buy new display adaptors. If you've got an old MacBook laptop which uses the MagSafe connector (it attaches using magnets, rather than a socket, so if the power cord gets yanked nothing gets harmed), you won't destroy the computer.•User-unfixability. This is the big one, actually. You can't upgrade the RAM because it's fixed in place, so buy the maximum you can bear. You can't swap the battery, because it's almost moulded into place. Over at iFixit, Kyle Wiens haswritten at length about this- and not just as a critique of the machine itself, but of thegeneral trend towards unfixable appliance-ness, which he says is "leading humanity down a perilous path". You can think that he's being hyperbolic, but I agree with him. We've got plenty of landfill, and too much of it taken with gizmos sealed so tight they can't be recycled without melting them down - which uses energy we should be sparing.Suggesting that Wiens is just trying to preserve his third-party repair business falls, to me, is to miss the point. Computers don't always go wrong in times and places where you have the time, money or transport to get them to an Authorised Apple Repair Centre. These laptops are intended to be used by video editors in the field (as their processor punch indicates). Hell, what if a cat knocks your drink over your keyboard? And what if that happens while you're in the bush in Kenya making a documentary?We can hope that the SSD won't go wrong - but are we sure? SSDs can fail suddenly. When travelling, I carry a backup drive and the tools to fit it (thankfully minimal on the four-year-old MacBook I use)just in case. Laptops have never been easy to repair, but Apple did seem for a while to be heading towards standard connectors and fittings. No more.One could discuss whether the trend towards non-fixability is a reflection of our modern consumer society to become appliance-fixated, ignoring what happens to products after they've fulfilled their usefulness to us. But that's probably one for another time.•Battery life. Apple claims seven hours. Well, there are lies, damned lies, and battery lives. I didn't do a strict "let's see how long we can string it out" challenge; I simply used it with Wi-Fi running, and usually got battery lives of up to three hours. That's with a lot of applications (and Wi-Fi) running; quitting applications, turning the screen down and turning off Wi-Fi all increase the potential life. Three or so hours isn't terrible, but we still haven't reached the era when a computer will last all day. (It's those damn display pixels sucking up juice.)•Web ain't ready for it. Especially for the photographers who will be oohing and aaahing over this, visiting many websites will incur the feeling web designers get when you say "Hey, can we have a blinking sign that says 'Enter' on the home page of our website?" Most sites aren't doing 144dpi pictures, and likely won't be for some time; all the "legacy web" (ie everything pretty much up to this point) is going to be in grotty old 72dpi. I'm not sure much of it will ever get updated to a DPI requiring four times as much storage.Equally, the pleasure of using something that renders text so well is huge. (And Google will roll the text-rendering part of Canary into its main Chrome line in time, if that's your main browser; Safari already does. Firefox… well, that's not clear.)•Price. Well, yes, this stuff doesn't come cheap. In the UK, thestarting priceis £1,799 (15in screen, 8GB, 256GB Flash, 2.3GHz processor) while that for the non-retina, non-Flash 15in screen version is £1,499 - although for 8GB RAM and 750GB of spinning storage you'll pay £1,799. Frankly, you'd do better with the RetinaBook.It's that combination of price and user-unfixability (especially the latter) that really takes the star off. Mostly, the unfixability. Say all you like about how it's modular and great and how car engines all look like one single moulded piece of plastic when you open the bonnet - but this is meant to be for professionals. They have problems in the field, and they made need to solve them there.ConclusionIt's an amazing machine, and it's got every technology you're likely to need, and a screen to die for, and a price to gulp at.Personally, my heart says yes. My head says no - apart from my eyes, which say definitely, absolutely yes. My insurance broker says no.I guess I'll get a piggybank and start saving.
An estimated 45,600 computers infected with the DNSChanger Trojan could lose internet access on Monday when the FBI removes a temporary fix for computers infected with the malware.An organized criminal group called Rove Digital deployed the virus, which rerouted internet traffic,generating $14m in revenue for the group.In 2011, seven were chargedfor the internet fraud scheme that infected more than four million computers across the world. At least 500,000 of those computers were in the US and include computers owned by government agencies, businesses and individuals. Six of those charged were arrested, one remains at large.To keep victims from losing internet access, the FBI worked with a non-profit to provide victims with a temporary solution, which expires on Monday.Is your computer infected?To check if your computer is infected,click this linkfrom the FBI. The site features an image which will have either a green background (which means your computer is clean) or red (which means your computer is infected). If you are outside the US, a list of country-specific sites to check if your computer is infected is availablehere.What to do if your computer is infectedFirst, back up all valuable information on your computer. Then, take it to a professional. FBI has anin-depth rundown (pdf)on what to do if your Mac or PC has the virus.This websitealso provides a list of tools to clean up the malware.How the DNSChanger malware worksDNS (Domain Name System) converts user-friendly domain names, likeguardiannews.cominto numerical internet protocol (IP) addresses that computers use to communicate with each other. So every time you enterguardiannews.com(which you should do often!), your computer takes the numeral code IP, sends it to the DNS, which in turn sends your computer to the proper website.The scammers infected computers around the world with the malware, allowing them to control DNS servers. Once they gained control of computers DNS they were able control what sites the computer connects to, interfere with web browsing and make computers vulnerable to other malicious software. This is what tens of thousands of computers in the US are dealing with now.
Atari blew it. At the start of the eighties, the manufacturer of the world's best-selling console allowed its market to be flooded with mediocre games, published by reckless and cynical third-parties. Meanwhile, the company over-hyped and over-manufacturered its own monstrosities, the likes of ET and the awful VCS conversion of Pac-Man produced in their multi-millions. Then in 1983, amid other contributing factors, the console industry collapsed.And now, just as the economy is beginning to resemble the mess of the early '80s, so is the console business. It is an age of hubris and panic. While Nintendo has invested heavily in the dual-screen entertainment dream, pitching its Wii U console at families who watch TV while tapping away on tablet computers, Sony and Microsoft both seem to be flirting with a future in which the next-gen consoles become set-top boxes of mass, digitally distributed entertainment. It's domination or death. It's 1983.The specifics are very different but the patterns are familiar. In '83, we were looking at a saturated console market. There were too many machines competing with each other, vying for consumer interest – the Atari VCS, the Colecovision, the Intellivision... And right now, if you include handheld devices, we have too wide an array of platforms once again. Arguably, the most stable years for the console games business – the mid-ninties to the mid-2000s – were dominated by one machine, the PlayStation. There hasn't been an era since the early '80s in which three consoles and their handheld offshoots have battled it out so closely.Another similarity between the two periods is the encroachment of a disruptive new presence. In the '80s that was the dawn of the home computer – the Commodore 64, the Apple II, the Spectrum – machines that offered much wider functionality to a broader user base at comparable prices. In 2012, the disruption is coming from smartphones, tablets, smart TVs... all offering wider functionality to a broader user-base at comparable prices.Even the attempt to harness new information infrastructures echoes back to this period. TheAtari GamelineandIntellivision Playcableboth sought to bring downloadable gaming and linear content services to consoles. Even then, there was an understanding that digital consumption of varied content was the future.It's interesting that veterans of the eighties industry are re-grouping and re-assessing now. On Wednesday David Darling, founder of publisher Codemasters,wrote a blogposton the site of his new indie digital gaming company Kwalee about the "Jurassic" console business, and the need for Sony and Microsoft to abandon old distribution methods:Sony and Microsoft cannot let the retailers dictate game prices going forwards if they want to break free from the current over-priced model, their next consoles, PlayStation 4 and Xbox 720 need to be digital only, or they will fail. Once Apple add an App Store to Apple TV they could take over the living room games industry like they have taken over the handheld games industry with the  iPhone and its flexible pricing and lack of distribution costs. The industry is transitioning from boxed to digital games.If the next generation consoles have media drives like DVD to keep distributors and retailers happy so they can sell physical product this will make the machines uncompetitive. They will not be able to compete on price. The retailers will say to Sony and Microsoft: "You can't sell game X at retail for $60 and then sell it in your App Store for $2." However, console-makers will need to sell games for $2 or else they will not be competitive with Apple. Nintendo 3DS and Sony Vita are not currently competitive with iPhone and Android game prices.Meanwhile, on a much grander scale, Dave Perry has sold his Gaikai cloud gaming company to Sony for $380m. Perry started out in the early eighties coding games for the likes of Virgin and Mirrorsoft, and may now have a significant role in where consoles are heading. Ina fascinating analysis of the purchase, Digital Foundry's Richard Leadbetter, sees a future in which streamed gaming services sit beside traditionally delivered titles, offering true cross-platform gaming across Sony's array of platforms:Far from replacing existing consoles and simply streaming those games over IP, we could see the emergence of a brand new format, capable of experiences with a size and scale, and levels of interconnectivity we've never played before – games that could run on all of Sony's existing consoles, its HDTVs and PlayStation-certified mobile phones. Think about this for a moment: a Naughty Dog or Sony Santa Monica game built from the ground up, designed with cloud hardware in mind? The possibilities are mouth-watering.This sense of Sony including its other consumer technology products into the streaming content eco-system is an important one. It's something picked up by analyst Piers Harding-Rolls at Screen Digestin another interesting report:This extending strategy will be relevant to other connected Sony devices or even possibly to third-party devices if it makes commercial sense to the company, although at this stage it is clear that the company's priorities are to support sales of its own devices. As such Gaikai's technology is important in supporting Sony's TV division, which is under particular commercial and competitive pressure at the moment. IHS Screen Digest's forecast of over one billion active connected TV devices across the world by the end of 2016 underlines the significance of this device category for future entertainment content distribution including games.Microsoft's strategy with SmartGlass – its smartphone and tablet app capable of organising cross-platform connectivity with the Xbox console – is comparable, although for the Seattle giant it's more about pushing Windows 8 and forging a route into the smartphone and tablet markets. Both Gaikai and SmartGlass are about building an inclusive entertainment architecture in which the console is both the server and the service; the hub world in a integrated entertainment universe. Analysing the SmartGlass technology for MCV, Michael Frenchwrote on Wednesday:Microsoft knows that the market is moving on beyond the console, and moving onto devices it can never hope to dominate. And it has to follow. When an Xbox exec says 'we'll go wherever our users are', that isn't actually aspirational nonsense – it's a concession to the fact that Microsoft's users aren't just users of Microsoft's operating systems. They own devices that have software from sworn enemies Apple and Google.There are interesting rumours, too, about the next Xbox console. Microsoft haswrangled the Xbox 8 domain from a cybersquatter, leading to suggestions that this is the name of the company's next machine. Some have suggested this is an alignment with the Windows 8 OS, but put 8 on its side, goes the alternate line of conjecture, and you have the symbol for Infinity.Many have predicted that the next console generation will be the last (read our interview with Crytek founder Cevat Yerli). And that has always taken on an apocalyptic tone. But it could also mean that what Sony and Microsoft are currently building are boxes designed to be endlessly updated and reconfigured. Instead of annihilation, evolution.In 1983, the console business was almost destroyed by poor software quality control and an inability to establish more diverse entertainment offerings. Back then, the disruptive factors were cheap PCs and the first hints of an internet business. Now, console manufacturers have infrastructures built to embrace online distribution, they understand quality control and they have smartphones and tablets.The question is about how far they are willing to evolve: will the future of consoles be about hybrid services – with physical games existing beside downloadable and streaming products? Or will be see a major leap away from boxed goods entirely and into a solely digital future? If this isn't the end, is it really a beginning?
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?I have a rubber hamburger that squeaks. It's pretty awesome but I suppose it doesn't count as "technology". I have a mobile phone, andI learned to text on it. It hasn't really improved my life. Maybe if I was a human I'd say "My phone is AMAZING. I couldn't LIVE without it." Luckily I'm a dog. Humans are idiots.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Two minutes ago. I sent a text to the guy who "looks after me". It said "Buy me biscuits". I sent it 29 times so he doesn't forget. Now he's swearing at me. This is the kind of stuff I have to put up with.What additional features would you add if you could?A built-in grappling hook and night vision camera. Also, a hologram function that creates a decoy version of me. So I can sneak up on my enemies.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I just had to Google "obsolete". That was WAY too much effort. Please don't try to dazzle me with your sexy fancy words. To answer your question: I am a bulldog. On average, bulldogs live for 10-12 years. I've already done eight. My phone WILL be obsolete because before I die I will wee on it then bury it.What always frustrates you about technology in general?It's not built for paws. Also, most of it tastes awful. I want more bacon flavour technology. iPads that smell like sausages. Write that down.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I found a battery in the bin once. Whenever I licked it, it gave my tongue an electric shock. But I COULDN'T STOP LICKING IT. I hated that battery, but at the same time, I loved it. Now I feel like I want to cry. Thanks for bringing that up.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Bite it, then shake it.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Geez, I had to Google BOTH of those. Is there somebody I can text to get you fired? This is more work than I'd usually do in a month. I'm a NERD, because nerds are AWESOME. Plus, I look hilarious and sexy in glasses.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I had a really nice, really shiny laptop once. It was mine for about 15 minutes. My owner left it on the floor, and I managed to drag it all the way out into the garden before he caught me. I was just about to make love to it under a bush. Spoilsport.Mac or PC, and why?I've always admired the way Apple focus on the accessibility of their operating system and the aesthetic beauty of their products. However, I find Windows more useful for the day to day running of my business. (I just copied and pasted that off the internet, I have no idea what you're asking me.)Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?CDs and DVDs freak me out. Too shiny. Way too shiny. The last thing I downloaded was £150 worth of Abba records for my owner. It's a birthday surprise. He's paying for it obviously. It's funny because he HATES Abba. LOL.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?OH YES. But why stop at butlers? I think we could probably just get rid of humans altogether. You probably disagree but think about it, would it REALLY be so bad? REALLY?What piece of technology would you most like to own?Oh I don't know. I'm tired of your questions, and suspicious. Where are you going to print this? Will there be a picture of me? I want it to be black and white so I look like a model. I'm going to bark at something for no apparent reason. Goodbye.•Dog was born on a farm in Wales. One of five siblings, he was the runt of the litter and the last to be sold. This made him grumpy from an early age. At 13 weeks he was finally whisked away to the big city (Birmingham), where he spent the next eight long, disappointing years of his life. Dog spends his days trying to make sense of the world around him. His hobbies are sleeping, eating, staring aimlessly into space, and occasionally barking at things that have fallen over.He recently learned how to text. This knowledge has brightened his outlook considerably, as it means he can now annoy his odious, neglectful owner 24 hours a day. Dog is also a part-time crimefighter.
Why is Windows 8 so bonkers? Imagine a parallel universe where the mouse was never invented and you have your answer.Palo AltoWindows, Icons, Menus, and Pointers (WIMP) is one of the oldest acronyms in computing (though predated by RTFM, which to some extent it was meant to make irrelevant). And it has guided operating system design since the first machine to use it –The Xerox Alto– came into being. It was this machine that Jobs and Apple apocryphally ripped off to create the Lisa and ultimately the Macintosh.(We know this history, so I'm not going to labour it. However, the story is more subtle than that and features less larceny;here's a good piece on the topic. Let us speak no more of it.)What is clear is that the idea of pushing a mouse around on a desk and manipulating windows, hitting icons, and selecting from menus works. The market has pretty conclusively validated the principles of WIMP.But you know what other idea that the market has successfully validated? The iPad proves that we don't need WIMP anymore.FingersWhen you only have fingers to work with, lots of the WIMP proposition doesn't make sense. Moving windows around is fussy and difficult, not necessarily because of real estate, but because the "hit targets" that you're dealing with are so small. With a mouse you can be really confident of hitting the "minimise" button. By contrast a finger is so big that smushing the general area of the minimise button might hit what the screen thinks is the "target", or not. The solution then, as the iPad did, was to just get rid of overlapping windows.If we look at Windows 8, Metro-style apps run full screen. There are no overlapping windows. There's limited support for popup windows (eg, click on a button on the app bar and you might get a small window), but you rarely see dialogs. This, then, is where we can start to see the deprecation of WIMP in Windows: Windows 8 Metro-style has no windows.Next up: icons. There are icons on the iPad, I accept, but a different interpretation is that icons really become "files".This blogreferences Steve Jobs talking about deprecating the file system in iOS. Again, looking at market validation, people and businesses buy iPads even though iOS doesn't have a user-visible file system. In every version of Windows since v1 there's been a file systemfront and centre. In Windows 8 Metro-style, the file system is buried.Menus? Gone. On the iPad some applications use toolbars to access things like menus, but there's nothing like the ubiquitous menu bar in OS X. Likewise Windows 8 Metro-style apps don't have a pull-down menuing system like Old Windows. What you have instead is the app bar, which is a reinvention of the toolbar, not the menubar.Pointers? Well, obviously gone. But a subtle point here relates to why you can plug a keyboard into an iPad, but not a mouse. The expectation is that you will touch it, even if you're sitting down at a desk to work.So, if you're one of those people who still doesn't "get" the reimagining of Windows 8, just imagine that the guys in Palo Alto got it wrong, that every OS designer since then got it wrong, and that we're only just starting to get it right now.Why deprecating WIMP worksWell, we're not quite getting it right, because ditching WIMP on PCs doesn't work. And now you think I'm contradicting myself…Defining a "post-PC device" is not an easy task. The way I think about it is that post-PC devices are the first class of computing devices that we use that are not about work. Up until this point we've always co-opted devices designed for use in work and bastardised them so that we can do non-work things on them such as posting Facebook updates or hilarious meme images on Tumblr.Although manufacturers tweak devices to make them more palatable for domestic sale, the design of an HP desktop has a lot in common with an HP server sitting in a rack in a data centre somewhere. Think about things like the disk, the amount of empty space in it, connector standards, even the power buttons. True story: a friend of friend of mine use to have a Jaguar XJ220. That had the same door lock as a Ford Mondeo.The one thing that we've dragged into our non-work computing life from the commercial PC market is the keyboard. For me, post-PC devices do not have keyboards. If you want to getsemioticon it, keyboards are a symbol of work. This is why most people are perfectly happy to take an iPad to bed but not a laptop. Or perhaps more precisely, it explains why spouses normally object less when their partners bring an iPad to bed than if they pull the same move with a laptop.It's also why a Surface doesn't have a (proper) keyboard. TheSurface's quasi-keyboardexists solely to sell Office licenses and for no other reason.Given the current capability in our supply chain, if you want to build a computing device without a keyboard it happens to look like a tablet. Not all tablets are post-PC devices though. TheNexus 7, launched last week, is a simple and basic media player, just like the Kindle Fire that it's paying tribute to.While we're on the subject of the Nexus 7, can we please kill off this idea that post-PC devices are about consumption as opposed to creation? They're not. A well-timed tweet during the X Factor final is just as creative as a sentence in a doctoral thesis. And who's to say the next Banksy isn't out there ready to smear social satire all over Tumblr via his iPad?Windows 8 is a split operating system – one that you can take to bed, and one that you can take to work. One on which you can put together a killer report for the board, and one where you can tweet while watchingHot Shotsback in your dystopian Relaxation Pod.Using a non-work OS at workThere are two ways to use a computer at work – you can either spent all day staring at it and hacking away, or you can do something else but happen to need a computer available to you from time to time. A lot of people who have jobs where they're always in meetings or travelling, where most of the work they do is face-to-face, now find that they can just ditch a normal computer and use an iPad.And it's this part that Microsoft doesn't like. In the enterprise, the value proposition of Windows gets nibbled by people who can get on just fine with a web browser, iPad email and Evernote. In the consumer space, I'm going to go out on a limb here and say that unless you're a student or a hobbyist, you don't need a PC. Look forward 10 years and I believe virtually every home will have post-PC tablets for each family member – and zero PCs.So the side of Windows 8 that's based on Metro-style and doesn't use WIMP fits perfectly into that future vision. You can use it in the boardroom for checking football results-slash-taking notes, and you can use it at home for all of the social networking-type tasks that you fancy. Where Windows 8 feels a bit wrong is if you use a computer all day, every day.I don't want to labour this point – I wrote anot particularly gentle articleback in March about how the mismatch of Metro-style and Old Windows in Windows 8 doesn't work.I do want to revisit this though based on my experiences using Windows 8 over the past three months, and my thought is this: "What else could Microsoft have possibly done?" They can't not get rid of WIMP, but they can't keep WIMP either. Hence the tension between these two sides of the operating system. There's no neat A-B route that takes Windows 7 over to a world where Windows isn't required, at least not one where things don't get even more confusing than they are now.ConclusionWIMP is dead. Long live touch.If you're confused about Windows 8, there's one simple thing you can do. Remember that this is an operating system designed for a world where overlapping windows, menus, and pointers will become a niche activity in our world. Windows 8 becomes much less barking mad if you do that.•Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer and author based in the UK.  His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit
Apple says that the problem withapp corruption that hit scores of programsthis week has been fixed and was only a problem for one day, affecting only a "small number" of users - though the figure was immediatelydisputed by Marco Arment, the iOS and Mac developer who first brought the problem to widespread attention.Other developers also disagreed with Apple's claim that the problem only began on 5 July, pointing to problems from users who downloaded on 4 July. "We pushed an update [to the App Store] on Wednesday [4 July] at 11am London time and immediately heard back from angry users,"saidDenys Zhadanov of Readdle, whose Scanner Pro app - and users - were affected by the bug.Apple has begun removing one-star reviews given to apps as a result of the crashing bug.In a statement, Apple said: "We had a temporary issue that began yesterday with a server that generated DRM code for some apps being downloaded, it affected a small number of users. The issue has been rectified and we don't expect it to occur again. Users who experienced an issue launching an app caused by this server bug can delete the affected app and re-download it."The company declined to say precisely how many users were affected, or in which regions.The explanation of the problem agrees with that given on Thursday by Zhadanov, who suggested that the DRM [digital rights management] software protecting the apps had been wrongly applied.Chuq von Rospach, formerly Palm's development community manager, commented that that company had seen a similar problem once when a security certificate expired. Something similar may have happened to the App Store updates, though Apple has declined to offer more information.Arment disputed Apple's ciaims that the number affected was "small", commenting on his site that "based on my cumulative stats for July 3, Instapaper's corruption alone probably affected well over 20,000 customers, and there were over 120 other apps affected, including some very big names such as Angry Birds, GoodReader, Yahoo, and the LA Times. But I'm glad this is fixed." He had previously said that his principal aim was to bring the problem to Apple's attention and get it sorted out.The removal of the one-star reviews was seen as an important way to build bridges to the development community. "If they do [that] it will go a long way toward repairing their relationship with the affected developers," Arment commented.
Owners of Nintendo handhelds have never had to pine forlornly for top-quality platforming action. From Super Mario Land on the Gameboy, through Yoshi's Island and Mega Man on the DS to Super Mario 3D Land on the 3DS, this staple genre has always been well represented.The latest example is this shamelessly traditional scrolling 2D adventure, pitching a young boy named Max against an invading alien force, with only a jet pack and a water cannon to aid in his quest.Each of the compact, cleverly designed levels is a maze of patrolling enemies, moving platforms and falling hammers, requiring deft timing, pixel-perfect leaps and tight planning from players.Hit the jump button twice and you get a limited jet pack boost which is necessary for longer jumps but needs to be carefully employed, especially when hovering above spike pits to grab that last crucial diamond. These gems can be used in a shop to buy power-ups and weapon upgrades.The visual design is pure, harking back to the great scrolling platformers of the Master System and NES age. But there's a clever addition – the action takes place on three planes which Max can leap between using special launch pads.It means that there can be three different routes displayed on screen at once, and yet the design never allows you to become confused or disorientated.Instead, skilled players are able to plan routes and anticipate puzzles and traps – or just enjoy the detailed structures as they stack up beyond each other.It's not an easy or forgiving game. Disappearing platforms require excellent timing, and not thinking ahead can often mean leaping on to a platform already occupied by one of the many alien invaders, sapping one heart from your meter.There's also a timer counting down, leading to a more frenzied approach as the final seconds tick away.The eight-bit music, the blocky sprites and the uncompromising difficulty curve will all appeal to genre veterans, but at £8 via Nintendo's online eShop it's also a recommended purchase for any newcomers who want to find out what platform games were like 20 years ago.Not that this is an entirely retro title – the multi-plane visuals, hidden levels and subtle but proficient use of the stereoscopic functionality all remind us that this is 2012 after all.• Game reviewed on Nintendo 3DS
What is your app called and what does it do?It's called theRed Bull Racing Spyapp and it tells Formula One fans about what's going on behind the scenes in the world's premier motorsport series.What devices is it on, and what are your plans?Currently it's on iPads and iPhones but fear not Android fans, we have plans to bring you your own version very shortly.What's the business model and why have you chosen it?It's pretty much a combination of James Hunt meets Loose Women. Fast living and highly educated opinion meets glamour and fast cars.What's innovative about the app – what sets it apart?We have the usual F1 fare: lap times, results, championship standings, calendar… but also a whole load of gossip and insider information about people who have run away with the circus we like to call 'The F1 Paddock'.What's the competition – who else is out there in this area?There are lots of apps including the official Formula 1 timing app which tell the tale of what happens on the track, we like to think we're the only one which goes to races but doesn't actually concentrate on the racing.What are your future plans for the app?The Android version is a bit of a priority as is uncovering salacious gossip. I'm joking. Just giving the fans the best insight we can.Tell us more about the company behind it…It's a collaboration between Red Bull UK and the current Formula One world champions Red Bull Racing. It was made by Holler and our friends at the Red Bull Media House also lent a hand. But basically it was the Spy's doing. Who is he? It's a secret, but he's also on Twitter (@redbullf1spy).
May 2005: the day of the Nintendo DS handheld's Japanese launch and, rather than spend the afternoon celebrating, the company president, Satoru Iwata, instead chose to spend the afternoon with an elderly professor from Tohoku University.Dr Ryuta Kawashima had recently risen to fame with the bestseller Train Your Brain and, in response to one of Nintendo's older directors who wanted the company to investigate games that might appeal to the over-50s, Iwata (who used the book himself) organised an hour's meeting with the author.The meeting turned into a three-hour brainstorming session in which both men excitedly discussed how they could turn the book, which provides daily mental exercises to keep the brain young, into software.Iwata left the meeting and assigned nine developers to the project, giving them only 90 days in which to develop the game. Just 70,000 pre-orders were placed with retailers, but within a year Dr Kawashima's Brain Training had sold more than 2.3m copies in Japan alone.By 2009 the game and its sequel had sold nearly 18m copies worldwide, introducing gaming to the so-called "grey" retiree player. This widening shift in audience led Nintendo to begin advertising in magazines and on television spots targeted at retirees before, in 2009, launching a new version of the handheld, the DSiXL, which boasted larger screens and a greater heft to sit in the lap – hardware clearly tailored and subsequently marketed to the older consumer.Fast-forward to today and history appears to be repeating itself with the launch of the 3DS XL, a larger, heftier version of the company's current 3D handheld system.With a screen that's 90% larger than the original, and a much broader size – making it less suited to games on the go – ostensibly this is a system designed for an older generation. But the impetus behind its design is somewhat different to the DSiXL.Rather, this is a machine intended to fix some of the issues with the 3DS, principally its disappointing battery life, which required a charge a day for the enthusiastic player, and its relatively small screen size compared with rival company products.The 3DS XL doubles the battery life of the original, even as it vastly extends the size of the handheld's dual screens (the upper screen providing the impressive no-glasses 3D effect – the lower offering a touchscreen interface).The impact of these two changes is not to be underestimated, as now the system can be slipped into a bag on standby and carried around for a few days without the need for evening charges. Likewise, the widening of the window into the system's games gives the play experience or more airy, easy-on-the-eyes feel, once that makes the game more competitive when set alongside rival Sony PS Vita's generous, seemingly acres-wide screen.One immediate downgrade when you open the box is the lack of a charger. Indeed, the 3DS XL may be the first handheld to ship without a means to power it, Nintendo banking on the fact that owners will already own one (it's compatible with that of the 3DS, DSi and DSi XL models) or else be willing to buy one separately. Good for the environment, perhaps, but hardly the ideal solution for the consumer in that regard.At 93mm the 3DS XL is roughly the same depth as the original system, but the added width (156mm compared with the 3DS's 138mm) has the strange and welcome illusion of making the handheld feel slimmer in the hands. While the original system was all obelisk-like edges with a touch of the Walkman about it, the 3DSXL has smooth, rounded sides – rather like a large, sea-beaten pebble.In theory this sleeker form should add a contemporary sheen to what was, frankly, a rather ugly launch model, but it's offset by the size of the thing which, in the wrong light, makes the system look something like an overblown executive child's toy (at least the burnished grey model we were sent – it also comes in red and blue).That said, the matte finish is better than the original's fingerprint-clinging sheen and the hinge that opens up the clamshell is much more robust compared with our 3DS launch model. This is an important improvement that gives everything a sturdier, more expensive feel in the hands, as well as allowing you to soft lock the screen at different angles depending on how cramped your train carriage is when playing.Open the system up and there's a cheaper feel to the plastic – the green light next to the 3D slider dropped in favour of a simple plastic indentation. The buttons have a Fisher-Price feel, but these drawbacks are completely offset by the improved screens.Make no mistake, Nintendo's components here are a long way from the best in the market. Compare a 3DS XL screen with, say an iPad 3 or even Vita and Nintendo is a couple of evolutionary technological steps behind, but the raw increase in size (3.53in to 4.88in for the top screen and 3in to 4.18in for the bottom) makes a world of difference.Besides, ever since the original Gameboy this is a company that competes on an experiential front, not a technological one. That said, the apparent swap in plastic component for the touchscreen, which has much less give under the prod of a stylus, is a welcome one.Worth the upgrade? Possibly, depending on how much 3DS you play. Games such as Pilotwings, Mario Kart 7 and Kid Icarus gain a new lease of life in this physical casing, the play window's widening drawing you in to these tiny worlds more effectively. This is undeniably an upgrade then, rather than an alternate model for players with old eyes and arthritis-ridden fingers.But it's a straightforward upgrade, one that doesn't provide enough of a leap in form and function for the average 3DS player to warrant a re-buy. For newcomers, however, it's the system to go for, adding battery life, screen size and a seasoning of style to a handheld that is arguably still to truly find its identity.
A selection of seven new and notable apps for you today:Draw Race 2Developer RedLynx's touch-racing game sequel has been ported to Android by Chillingo. As with its predecessor, you have to trace your finger round the track to pick the best racing line for your car. It includes 180 challenges in solo mode, and online challenges for friends.AndroidApptivity WWE RumblersThis is Mattel's second Apptivity app for iPad. Like Disney's AppMates, it involves placing a physical toy onto the touchscreen, and using it to interact with a game. In this case, the game is wrestling, with a series of licensed WWE stars to battle.iPadSamsung: Take Part 2012Another day, another official Olympic Games app. This one's from Samsung, which involves 3D mini-games for running, swimming and shooting. Oh, and augmented reality penalty kicks and archery thrown in for good measure.AndroidMini EmpiresMini Empires is a massively multiplayer online blend of Advance Wars, FarmVille and Civilization, released for iPhone. An intriguing prospect, not least because it's the work of developer Midverse Studios, which was founded recently by Riz Virk and Mitch Liu, of Tap Fish app-fame.iPhoneMapleStory LiveInteresting to see this quietly appear on the App Store: "The Complete MapleStory Mobile Experience" for iPhone. MapleStory being Nexon's popular massively multiplayer roleplaying game, with tens of millions of players in its existing online version.iPhoneZombies, Run!Running game Zombies, Run! has made plenty of headlines from its versions on other platforms, but now it's available on Windows Phone too. The idea: you run (in the real world) while being pursued by (not-real) zombies, with a storyline from novelist Naomi Alderman fuelling your exercise.Windows PhoneCartoon ABCDreadful ABC apps are ten-a-penny on the App Store, but Cartoon ABC could be one of the good ones. Developed by Kids Academy Company, it promises well-designed flashcards and animated videos.iPhone / iPad
Yes, made it! What are your gaming plans for the weekend? Download Spelunky for a start!
A quick burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle I/O fireside chat: how Google is pulling an Apple with Google+ &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWebQ: When will the full API for Google+ be available for everyone?[David] Glazer: "We deeply wanted to be sure we were building a platform that worked for developers. And at the same time, we knew there were a couple of failure modes around doing that. The obvious failure mode is 'don't give you tools.' That's an easy one to avoid, and this question is saying 'I want more tools' - understood."But there are some other failure modes we've seen out there, and one of them is to provide tools before we know if it's a good idea and then to change our mind, and then to change our mind again, and then to change our mind again. The other failure mode we've seen is that it's possible with a platform that has insufficient guidelines or tone or doesn't nudge the experience in the right direction to build something that creates a tragedy of the commons, where the more [that] people build on the platform, the more it hurts the overall community. Once we know what sticks, we're comfortable opening up more widely."[Bradley] Horowitz: "We have a very high velocity team. You don't want to be chasing after a moving target."Wikipedia article traffic statistics for the top 1,000 pagesReally quite scary.Yahoo CEO search in final stages, with Levinsohn and Kilar in lead &gt;&gt; AllThingsDAccording to sources close to the situation, the search for a new CEO for troubled Internet giant Yahoo is closing in on several key candidates in the mix.But, said sources inside and outside the company, it appears to be coming down to a contest between interim CEO Ross Levinsohn and Hulu CEO Jason Kilar.Aren't you justthrillingat the white-hot rivalry for... oh, forget it.Olympus and Apple join Google with wearable computing &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comThe Meg 4.0 requires a Bluetooth connection to a smartphone, which is then used to share information back to the Olympus display. Pricing and a release date were not discussed in the release.Meanwhile, Apple also seems to be working on wearable computers.It's the next wave. Get ready.Gadgets: Failure to Launch &gt;&gt; PinterestRoss Rubin:These are products that looked promising but either never hit the market or were withdrawn within months launch.He's @rossrubin on Twitter. Let him know if you have any others to suggest. (Also: three Pinterest links in a day?)Find and Call: Leak and Spam &gt;&gt; SecurelistYesterday we were contacted by our partner MegaFon, one of the major mobile carriers in Russia. They notified us about a suspicious application, which was found in both the Apple App Store and Google Play. At first glance, this seemed to be an SMS worm spread via sending short messages to all contacts stored in the phone book with the URL to itself.However, our analysis of the iOS and Android versions of the same application showed that it's not an SMS worm but a Trojan that uploads a user's phonebook to remote server. The 'replication' part is done by the server - SMS spam messages with the URL to the application are being sent from the remote server to all the contacts in the user's address book.Kaspersky says it's the first malware they've ever seen in the App Store; it was also seen on Google Play. Apple has removed the app, though it had been there since 13 June. The developer apparently claimed the behaviour was a "bug" - though you'd think they'd have noticed that "bug" quite soon.CityDashboard: BirminghamAlso available: Brighton, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Leeds, London, Manchester. A UCL/JISC/NeISS/CASA production. Rather neat.Minneapolis street test: Google gets a B+, Apple's Siri gets a D &gt;&gt; Fortune TechPiper Jaffray published the results Thursday in a note to clients:o Google understands 100% of the questions (not surprisingly, since they are keyed in)o Google replies accurately 86% of the timeo Siri comprehends 83% of queries in noisy conditions, 89% in a quiet roomo Siri answers accurately 62% of the time on the street and 68% in a quiet room."In order to become a viable mobile search alternative," Munster writes, "Siri must match or surpass Google's accuracy of B+ and move from a grade D to a B or higher."Hang on, Google is only accurate 86% of the time? Something is wrong on the internet.Google Graveyard &gt;&gt; Frank Shaw's PinterestFrank Shaw is Microsoft's head of PR. A very clever use of social media. At the time of bookmarking, it's out of date - we noted on Wednesday that iGoogle and others are on the way out too.Microsoft Morgue &gt;&gt; Harry McCracken's PinterestAwesome, in all its senses. Google wouldn't respond to Frank Shaw, so McCracken, a journalist, did.Google annoys Opera users who won't switch to Chrome &gt;&gt; ZDNetI downloaded the Opera browser and dusted off my old, rarely used Blogger account to confirm that this behavior is indeed occurring.And you cannot make those nagging messages go away. Any visit to a page in the Blogger content-editing interface results in this nag screen, and although you can dismiss the message, it will keep coming back until you finally decide that the headache isn't worth it and click the "try Google Chrome" link that Google has helpfully provided for you.This is how monopolies work. Google's competitive position in online advertising is so impenetrable that Microsoft was forced earlier this week totake a $6.2-billion write-offas an acknowledgment that its$6-billion acquisition of Aquantive in 2007had failed to make a dent in AdWords, DoubleClick, and other Google-owned advertising networks.Opera has negligible market share in desktop computing, tallying only 1.6% and 1.77% in the latest numbers fromNet Market ShareandStatCounter, respectively.But it's a mark of pure arrogance from a company that isn't afraid to act like Microsoft (1998) when it needs to muscle out a competitor.The Google roadblock for Opera is crude. If you change the User-Agent string for Opera so that it identifies itself as Google Chrome, the Blogger editing and management screens work perfectly.It's the last paragraph that's the killer there. Behaviourfirst noticed by Bob Leggitt. "First they came for the Opera users, and I said nothing..."Revenue for Apple, Microsoft, Intel and Google over the past 20 years &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansSimple comparison; tells an interesting story.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Every new shooting game needs its own unique selling point. It needs to promise the player something more than the inevitable "you will aim a gun and sometimes throw grenades". These USPs tend largely, and lamentably, to be novel brands of violence.The Darkness, for example, disguised its classic aim-fire-reload gameplay by having its hero sprout super-strong demonic tentacles capable of tearing foes limb from limb. InSyndicate, it was computer-hackable human brains. InSniper Elite V2, x-ray headshots. Clearly nothing entices shooter players – homicidal neophiles one and all – quite like the promise of killing in a way they've never killed before.It's a relief, then, when a game offers something new that isn't just a different way of making people's heads explode. ForInversion(Xbox 360/PS3/PC) that all-important USP istemperamental gravity: battlefields warp and reverse polarity, enemies walk the walls and stand casually on the ceiling and, later in the game, the hero floats weightless from one piece of cover to another in three dimensions.The gimmick still has its violent purposes, of course. Early in the game, the hero picks up a nifty piece of gear that lets him reduce or increase the gravity acting on an object. Reducing it allows him to float rocks, rubbish and later cars in the air, then hurl them at his opponents, while increasing it pins enemies to the floor and sends floating debris crashing to the ground to act as makeshift cover. The result is the same: lots of people who aren't you, dead. But it's a more inventive way of getting there than I've seen for a while.Sadly your gravity powers are underdeveloped, underused and a little too slow and clunky for the heat of battle. Hurling boulders and cars – notionally among the coolest things the game lets&nbsp;you do – is frustrating, imprecise and fiddly. And, while it's an odd complaint to make of a game that plays so fast and loose with basic forces of attraction, the physics engine just doesn't live up to the promise of the game's ambitious core premise: it never really feels like the things you levitate and fling are being flung. Much of the game, as a result, is easiest and most satisfying to play through with barely a thought for your gravity-manipulation skills. At&nbsp;which point, it plays eerily like Gears of War. You take cover, shoot, move to new cover and shoot some more. Which is fine, but that was Gears&nbsp;of War's USP. By now it's neither U nor, I suspect, S, and arguably barely even a P.Failure to deliver the goods on the gimmick would be forgivable with a rock-solid story. But the writers have clearly felt the strain of making sense of a world where people casually warp gravity. You play as Davis Russell, a tough-talking cop with a heart of gold, compelled to wage war alongside his Latino buddy against an alien army in a quest to track down his missing daughter. Russell narrates in gruff, ludicrous noir style, describing his life before the alien invasion as a prelapsarian time "before war even existed as an idea". Which is an odd view for a guy who we soon learn carries an assault rifle in his car.The story's not lacking in cliche, either: Russell's heading home to deliver a birthday gift for his little girlwhen a band of hi-tech, leather-clad space-punk idiots appearand start shooting people left, right and centre. He then finds his wife dead and his daughter taken, gets captured, and wakes up in a desert labour camp. He and his buddy are put to work as miners, and decide for no apparent reason to refer to these aliens as the Lutadores, perhaps in a bid to make them sound as ridiculous as they look. They escape, take the fight to the enemy, and that's when things get really weird.Though I've only played a preview, I've researched the full story. Without ruining it, suffice to say there's one gloriously mad plot twist that, while it may go some way towards explaining the wobbly physics, also catapults the story into the realms of the tediously silly. In more ways than one, this is a game with some bold and original ideas. It may have set out to let its players warp gravity, but it ended up letting gravity warp the game.
Scores of apps, including the free version of Angry Birds, which have been updated in Apple's App Store for both iOS and Macs over the past few days are suffering corruption that makes them crash on launch, even when they are deleted and reinstalled.Apple told the Guardian that it is looking into the source of the problem.Developers suggested to the Guardian that the problem was temporary, and is now receding as revised versions reach servers offering the apps.The problem was first raised by iOS and Mac developer Marco Arment, who says that he believes it affects a number of apps that were updated between 3 July and 5 July, and that the only fix - "once good copies are being served again by the App Store" - is to delete and reinstall the app. But even that was not always sufficient to solve the problem, he notes.Scanner Pro, made by developers Readdle, saw a number of one-star reviews from users after updating on 4 July. But problems seem to have been limited. "105,000 people updated yesterday [4 July], but less than 1% experienced problems - they all were early downloaders" Denys Zhadanov, the marketing manager, comments. "Scanner Pro 4.1 was affected." One user complained that in the update they lost all their documents, while others complained that the app wouldn't start.Zhadonov told the Guardian: "Technically, it seems that Apple's FairPlay DRM [digital rights management] mechanism weren't applied properly to the application packages that are delivered to user when he or she downloads the update. After the installation, application doesn't pass DRM validation and terminates immediately."FairPlay is the DRM system devised by Apple originally to prevent copying of purchased music from the iTunes Music Store, but now attached only to apps.Zhadanov said that the number of affected users rose rapidly to around 5% of downloaders, but then fell off: "servers were affected, I think, and Apple was fixing that."In ablog post,Readdle said that most of the affected users seemed to be in the US and UK. But, it added, "the issue is almost fixed and we only receive occasional emails about it."Arment described symptoms of the problem that users see:The app crashes immediately on launch, every time, even after a delete and reinstall as long as the corrupt file is being served by the App Store.It doesn't even show the Default.png before crashing. Just a split-second of a partial fade to black, then back to Springboard [the iPhone's standard icon screen]It may only affect customers in some regions.If updating from iTunes, some customers might get a dialog citing error 8324 or 8326.Mac apps might show this dialog: "[App] is damaged and can't be opened. Delete [App] and download it again from the App Store."The console might show: AppleFairplayTextCrypterSession::fairplayOpen() failed, error -42110For Apple the problem is serious. Although it would have been greater if it had come near a product launch, the problem has spanned 4 July, the biggest national holiday in the US, when people would be expected to have spare time during which they would download apps.Armentadvises developersto wait for a few days before uploading updated apps to the store so that the problem can be sorted out.Other developers confirmed to the Guardian that they have seen the problem. Arment has collected a list of more than 70 apps that have been affected.The issue only arises if the app has been updated and uploaded by the developer in those crucial days. Apps already on the store which have not been changed seem not to be affected.The App Store for iOS - covering the iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad - has hundreds of thousands of apps, of which a sizeable number are updated every day. The Mac App Store, which offers a similar digital store for programs for the Macintosh range, has a smaller range, but often with higher prices.Arment warned developers in his post that updating before the cause of the corruption is identified and removed was risky: "all of your most active users, the people who will install updates within hours of them becoming available, will be stopped in their tracks. They'll think you're careless, incompetent, and sloppy for issuing a release that doesn't work."The issue appears to be unprecedented, and users of both iOS 5 and the in-test iOS 6, due for launch in the autumn, have been affected.
Google's UK privacy manager was a senior official at the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) during its much-criticised investigation into Street View, it has emerged.Stephen McCartney joined Google as its London-based privacy policy manager in November last year – 18 months after he was in charge of data protection promotion at the watchdog at the same time that itcleared the company over its secret data collection by Street View cars. The ICO reopened its investigation in June following fresh evidence from a US regulator.Rob Halfon, the Tory MP for Harlow who has been critical of the ICO and Google over the data capture, said he would raise the matter in parliament. He told the Guardian: "This is a pretty shocking revelation. It raises more questions about the information commissioner than it does Google because clearly the ICO has been asleep on their watch on this issue."McCartney was one of the top officials at the ICO at the time of its 2010 investigation. However, the ICO said McCartney was not involved in its original investigation.The news came to light followinga Freedom of Information request by a member of the publicwho noticed that McCartney, formerly the head of data protection promotion at the ICO, had more recently been writing to the ICO itself from Google as it responded to the latest investigation.The2010 probefaced a barrage of criticism by privacy activists who said it failed to get to the bottom of Google's mistaken capture of emails, passwords and other private data from internet users. The ICOreopened its investigation in Juneafter a detailed probe by the US Federal Communications Commission, which concluded that the data collection was not the action of a single "rogue engineer", and that one senior manager had been told that the system could capture Wi-Fi data.Google was fined $25,000 by the FCC, which could find no evidence of criminal wrongdoing under US law, but said Google had "wilfully and repeatedly" failing to respond fully to an official letter of inquiry.The news will also prove uncomfortable for Google, which has been plagued by the data scoop since first admitting it in May 2010.The ICO confirmed in the Freedom of Information request that McCartney formerly worked there. HisLinkedIn pagesays he was the head of data protection promotion and strategic liaison group manager at the ICO for seven years until November 2011.Halfon said that the ICO "acted after the horse had bolted and have been woefully lacking". He added: "Now it seems they have had a cosy relationship with the company they have been investigating."The ICO also released correspondence between its office and McCartney over the Street View issue from April to June this year.In one email on 4 May 2012 to the information commissioner Christopher Graham, McCartney – at Google – complains about "significant errors" in the reporting of a US Federal Communication Commission (FCC) investigation into the so-called "payload" data collection."We are aware that there have been significant errors in the reporting of the content of this notice by the media, and that some data protection authorities have made statements to the media on the basis of these errors," McCartney wrote to the ICO."We have always recognised that we failed badly here, and we are happy to answer any questions authorities may have. But we do feel that there are factual errors in some of the reporting that needs to be addressed."He then goes on to highlight four points from the FCC report, but does not give examples of misreporting by the media. In other emails, McCartney alerts the information commissioner to the planned publication of the FCC report, which Google voluntarily published at the end of April.A spokesman for the ICO said: "Stephen McCartney played no part in the investigation into the Google Street View project while working at ICO. In any event, ICO employees continue to be legally bound by a confidentiality agreement after they leave the organisation, as part of the Data Protection Act."The published correspondence between Google and the ICO clearly shows that Stephen McCartney was treated like any other organisation's representative, with his emails receiving nothing more than a polite acknowledgement. ""Stephen Eckersley, the ICO's head of enforcement, continues to investigate Google's actions with regard to the Street View project."A Google spokesman said: "We do not comment on individual employees."
NiGHTS Into Dreams, Sonic Team's beautiful flying adventure, is to get an HD remake. Sega has been teasing the possibility for a few days, but the project has now been confirmed.Originally released on the Saturn console in 1996, NiGHTS follows the adventures of two children who must navigate a series of dream lands, aided by the eponymous jester-like character. The game was a visual marvel at the time, with beautifully detailed landscapes and a clever amalgamation of 2D scrolling gameplay and 3D camera navigation. A re-make followed on the PS2, and a Wii sequel Journey of Dreams arrived in 2007, overseen by NiGHTS co-creator, Takashi Iizuka.The HD version will come to Xbox Live, PSN and PC in the autumn, complete with widescreen compatibility, support for leaderboards and achievements. There's no word on whether we'll get the extra Christmas NiGHTS levels, originally released in special bundled editions of the Saturn console, or if we'll see any of the extras included with the PS2 port, including the huge art gallery.But still, this is lovely news for veteran Sega watchers, and something we're likely to see more of since the company's shift to a largely digital business model.
Earlier this week, you may have missed potentially the biggest gaming story of the year.On Tuesday, the Court of Justice of the European Union published its judgement on a dispute between business technology company Oracle and a firm named UsedSoft, which sells second-hand licenses for Oracle software without the corporation's permission.Oracle took UsedSoft to court, the case was referred to the CJEU and the judgement came down in favour of UsedSoft.What this means is that, under EU law, software companies have no right to prevent users from selling their digital downloads to others; effectively, the software distributor's rights to control distribution are exhausted after the first sale.So if you download a piece of software, you can effectively re-sell it – as long as you delete the copy on your own hard drive.Hmm, let's go through this again, but this time with the help of Jas Purewal, a games and media lawyer at Osborne Clarke, who hasblogged on the subject."The EU court held that it is legal for a legitimate purchaser of software to sell it to another person, whether that software is digital or physical," he says. Which sort of sounds clear. But wait."At the same time, the case has raised a series of questions about exactly how this actually should be implemented and what 'software' means."Ah okay, so then this could actually be irrelevant to downloadable games? "No," responds Purewal. "The EU court said that you have to look at the reality, not the legal documentation."If the reality is that a developer or publisher is giving you ownership of a game for an unlimited period, then that is what you get – regardless of what the end user license agreement (EULA) might say, according to the court."Huge question marks still hover over the legal distinctions between reproduction and distribution, and between actually buying a product and merely purchasing a license to use that product.But in short, this rather ambiguous judgement may make it legal for users to download titles from places like Steam, Xbox Live or the App Store and then sell those games on when they've finished playing them.What the rulingdoesn'tmention is how exactly consumers will be able to sell their downloaded software. There's no facility in most digital download sites to allow the re-sale of digital goods (one example that does allow this is UK site Green Man Gaming).Here, the key question is whether software providers will be compelled by this ruling to actively facilitate the distribution of used digital goods. "It is probably going to be a little while before anything actually happens," says Purewal. "There needs to be some kind of legal catalyst to actually spark implementation of the case, such as a consumer lawsuit or legislation proposed by the EU or a Member State government".It is very likely that the software industry will challenge the ruling if it looks as though consumers are acting to redistribute digital wares.The EU judgement places very little value on the concept of the end-user agreement, and as this is a quintessential element of the digital distribution process, it is a significant chink in the legislation. With the games industry moving inexorably toward digital distribution and cloud computing, this is a landmark issue.What has really been decided this week then?"The case has changed the legal landscape by forcing us to re-examine second hand sales from a legal perspective in the EU," says Purewal. "However, it raises many more questions than it answers really."How do mobile apps fit into this, for example? And what about the US, which so far has been legally hostile to second hand sales?  I think that actually the EU has ushered in a new age of legal uncertainty regarding second-hand sales and it will be some time before it is clarified."
I spilt green tea on my laptop keyboard, and now it doesn't seem to want to do anything. I need to get it repaired. Is it something I can do myself?JamesIt's unfortunately common for people to spill liquids on their laptops, but the results are very variable, and can include both electrical and physical damage, ranging from short circuits to long-term corrosion. It depends a lot on the type of liquid, the quantity and how quickly you react.Water and green tea are at the better end of the spectrum, especially in small quantities. Drinks that include a lot of sugar – which includes anything sweetened with honey – and/or milk are at the bad end. The problem is that drinks often leave a residue when they dry. The bigger the residue, the bigger the risk. It's often easier to replace a keyboard than to clean it, if the rest of the laptop still works.A good first response to a spill is to unplug the laptop immediately, if it's plugged into the mains, and then remove the battery as quickly as possible. This will reduce the risk of electrical damage. If the battery is sealed in, the best you can do is shut the machine down. Either way, try to keep the laptop upside down to reduce the risk of liquid reaching the motherboard.It's natural to use whatever's handy to remove as much liquid as you can. Not many people carry lint-free or microfibre cleaning cloths, but a well-washed handkerchief is a good alternative. If nothing else is handy, use paper towels or tissues. Try to blot rather than wipe, bearing in mind that cloths and tissues can also leave residues.If the spill is quite big, tilting the laptop towards an air vent and shaking it gently can help get more liquid out. So can unscrewing the bottom of the case and removing the hard drive, though you should be careful not to touch any of the electronics. (A pro would wear an anti-static wrist strap.)If the liquid is from the bad end of the spectrum, and will leave residues from (for example) milk and sugar, wipe the laptop down with a damp lint-free cloth.When you have done as much as you can, leave the laptop propped up somewhere warm to dry for at least a day, and preferably for two days. Don't use a hair dryer, which will blow hot dust into a sticky environment.The next step depends on the size and type of spill, and the price of the laptop. If you've only spilled a small amount of clean water on it, you may well get away with it. If your laptop has been hit with a large caramel frappuccino (topped with whipped cream and extra syrup) then it will need a thorough cleaning. You can strip it down and do this yourself, but it takes a lot of time and effort. You can get a computer repair shop to do it, but with a cheap laptop, the cost may be more than it's worth.When you are sure the laptop is absolutely dry, you can replace the battery and see if it starts. If it boots the operating system, does everything else work? If the keyboard doesn't work, try plugging in a USB keyboard: most computer shops and many supermarkets sell keyboards at very low prices. This may allow you to retrieve any data that hasn't been backed up.You can remove and clean a sticky keyboard using a damp cloth or soft toothbrush and distilled water before drying it thoroughly, and in extreme cases, people try methylated spirits (ethanol) or solvents (isopropyl alcohol). However, given the low cost of replacement keyboards, it may not be worth the effort. With today's one-piece keyboard assemblies, fixed with only two screws, it's much easier to replace a keyboard than to clean it. It's a five-minute job you can do yourself.Search online for the brand name and model, and you will probably be able to find a repair (or field service) manual with instructions, thoughLaptopKeyboard.comcovers most models. There are also lots of YouTube videos that will walk you through the process, some of them posted by the manufacturers themselves (egDell).Drink spills are a risk to laptops in many environments, including coffee shops and aeroplanes. If you are using a laptop at home, however, you can reduce the risk and improve your health by putting your laptop on a riser (or a stack of books or whatever) and using an external mouse and keyboard. Try to raise the laptop so the top of the screen is roughly level with your eyebrows, while the keyboard should be roughly level with your elbows. This will put you in a better position, ergonomically speaking, and if you spill a drink, it's more likely to ruin the cheap USB keyboard than the expensive laptop.For the record, I once knocked a glass of orange juice into a much lovedIBM Model M, which was probably the best mass market keyboard ever made. I disassembled, cleaned and dried it twice, with the second attempt using warm, soapy water. It never worked properly again. On that basis, I suspect the chances of rescuing most of today's cheap keyboards from a bad spill are pretty slim.
With more than 60 million registered users, Moshi Monsters is already one of the most popular children's virtual worlds. Now it's set to go fully mobile before the end of 2012.The company behind it, Mind Candy, has already launched a few spin-off iOS apps, both with partners such as ustwo and Penguin, and under its own steam – the recently-releasedMoshi Monsters: Moshlings.However, the full Moshi Monsters experience is set to make the leap from desktop to tablet. Chief executive Michael Acton-Smith talked about the company's plans in a speech at the Children's Media Conference in Sheffield, saying a team is already hard at work on the app."We're hopefully going to launch Pocket Moshi or Moshi-on-the-Move or whatever it's called in the next few months," he said. "We're going to make it free, and hopefully have millions of kids playing it."Acton-Smith admitted that Mind Candy took time to come around to the idea that apps could be a big growth area for children's entertainment."18 months ago, we were saying like most people 'are kids really going to have mobiles? Are parents going to buy £500 iPads for their kids? And the answer is absolutely yes," he said."We really firmly believe at Mind Candy that the tablet device is going to be the dominant form of entertainment for kids over the next few years. As revolutionary and exciting as what Disney did in the 1920s… what Henson did with Sesame Street, and what Pixar did in the film world."What's more, Mind Candy has ambitions of solving the app discovery problem for parents – and developers. And not just with Moshi Monsters apps."This could be a great opportunity for promoting new apps that third parties have developed," he said. "We're almost thinking of Mind Candy as a publisher curating apps that we'd like to promote to our audience."Acton-Smith said the increasingly ferocious competition on Apple's App Store is what set Mind Candy thinking about the opportunity for this kind of curation role."Until recently, great ideas could get lucky and bubble up. We've seen Angry Birds and Talking Tom and a host great stuff, but that's geting harder and harder," he said."That's where we see potential for us to come along as a publisher… We can curate new apps and say 'this is fantastic', and present it to our audience."Acton-Smith says Mind Candy has been following the ongoing debate around the use of in-app purchases in apps for children, but didn't rule it out for future Moshi apps."We are still trying to figure it out," he said. "Some of our future games may have in-app purchase in, but we're only going to do it in a way that doesn't damage trust with parents. We're building this brand for the long term: we don't just want to make a quick buck and annoy people along the way."Acton-Smith said that Mind Candy is also looking to work more with creative companies in other ways as a publisher, ideally through acquiring their IP, although it will consider funding and traditional commissioning-style deals."We're open to preschool ideas, we're open to slightly older audience as well, maybe early teens," he said. "We don't want to paint ourselves into a box… The way we see Mind Candy is family entertainment, similar to how Disney sees it."Mind Candy has also considered launching Moshi Monsters on Facebook, although Acton-Smith said the social network's official no-under-13s policy led it to shelve the idea. This may change."If Facebook did develop a kids version, which has been whispered about for a while, we would absolutely look at putting our content on there."Even so, mobile and particularly tablet is the bigger focus for Mind Candy as it continues to build Moshi Monsters in a multi-platform brand."If we just focused on desktop, in the next year or two we'd be a dinosaur," said Acton-Smith.
Google is to launch its flagship Nexus 7 tablet computer in the UK without music, magazines or TV shows after failing to strike rights deals with several media groups.The company's first own-branded tablet computer will goon sale in the UK on 19 July, but many potential buyers could be put off paying £169 for the device without a full library of content.Google's closest rival in the tablet market, Amazon, also failed to settle rights issues with media groups last year, meaning it has been unable to launch its Kindle Fire in the UK.The setback makes it more likely that Google will struggle tocompete directlywith Apple's market-leading iPad, which is £160 more expensive than the Nexus 7 but boasts a huge library of music, films and TV shows.A Google spokesman said: "We want to bring different types of content to as many places as we can, but we don't have anything more to share on timing. We plan to continue expanding the Movies &amp; TV shows category to more countries in the coming months."International rights issues mean that manufacturers must strike deals for music and TV shows in individual countries. Both Google and Amazon have so far only managed to sign successful licensing agreements in the US.Analysts questioned whether it was worthwhile for manufacturers to spend significant time and money negotiating with major rights groups for cloud-based media."There is certainly a big question mark over how worthwhile it is to device manufacturers is building those relationships," said media analyst Mark Mulligan."It is not just the cost of licensing but the difficulties of licensing and how you might have to compromise user experience. It is harder for Google to get as much back from the very significant investment that this requires."The setback could prove further damaging for Google if it Apple decides to launch a smaller, cheaper version of its iPad.TheWall Street Journal reported on Wednesdaythat Apple has told component suppliers in Asia to prepare for mass production of a tablet computer with a screen smaller than 8in.The Asus-manufactured Google Nexus 7 has a 7in screen, the same as Amazon's Kindle Fire. The Apple iPad has a 9.7in screen.The Nexus 7 will be the first tablet computer to run Google's latest Jelly Bean Android software. It has a 1.2MP camera – unlike the Kindle Fire – and is available with 8GB of memory (£159) or 16GB (£199).
A selection of nine new and notable apps for you today:London – A City Through TimeAmid a sea of London-related apps hoping to capitalise on this summer's Olympic Games, Heuristic Media's stands out for its craft and depth. It's a reference guide with more than 6,000 articles and 2,000 images, along with 360-degree views, spinning Museum of London artefacts, audio tours, and a slick timeline to find your way through it all.iPadM&amp;SBritish retailer Marks &amp; Spencer joins the App Store rush with an iPhone app providing e-commerce, shopping tips, social features and barcode-scanning features, while synchronising your shopping basket with its website.iPhoneLondon 2012 Official Results AppFollowing the launch of the official Olympic Games 'Join In' app a few weeks ago, now there's an official app for the Games themselves. That means news, schedules, results and medal tables for all the events between 25 July and 12 August. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iOS version.Android / iPhone / iPadChildcareOr the Pre-school Learning Alliance Choosing Childcare App, to give this its full name. It's a way for parents in the UK to find nearby childcare providers and read their latest Ofsted inspection report, along with tips on how to get children settled in to childcare.iPhoneQuick FictionsThis is a nifty idea: a collection of short stories, each under 300 words, designed to be "read on the bus, in the subway/tube or while the kettle boils". Born out of an initiative from the University of Sussex, Aimer Media's app also lets readers submit their own stories.iPhone / iPadDigiBlogThis Android app is designed for Samsung's Galaxy Note – well, any Samsung device with a stylus – working as a "digital sketch book" tracking location and adding photos, videos, text and audio recordings.AndroidMushFind it hard to feel genuinely emotional about platform-game characters? Mush might change that. It's an Xbox Live-enabled Windows Phone game that involves changing your character's emotions as part of the gameplay.Windows PhoneVirginTrain TicketsVirgin's UK train service hits Windows Phone Marketplace with an app that includes timetables, journey-planning and ticketing. The latter includes buying tickets, and being sent them directly to the device.Windows PhoneFrogger: Hyper Arcade Edition"Stunning new graphics!" promises the App Store listing for this reboot of Konami's Frogger franchise. Well, that's rather optimistic – it still looks more like a game made 30 years ago. Even so, the car-dodging leapery remains intact.iPhone / iPad
What crazy game-related stuff has happened to you this week? Tell us all, right now!
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple's crackdown on app-ranking manipulation: Confused developers caught in the dragnet | VentureBeatFor a small developer who's just released an iOS app, a position near the top of Apple's App Store rankings could mean the difference between a million dollars in revenue and Top Ramen for dinner. So it's no surprise that some coders try to cheat the system -- and that Apple tries to stop it.But in the battle between Apple's police and the cheaters who employ automated bots or cheap Chinese labor to boost their rankings, some innocent startups are finding themselves banned from the marketplace -- collateral damage in a high-stakes war with real money on the line.Now a few of the castoffs are raising their voices to complain about Apple's secretive policies."It's hard to tell who is doing this ethically and who isn't," said one source familiar with the cheaters who asked to remain anonymous. "It's hard to believe the big guys aren't manipulating their ranks and that Apple is treating everybody fairly here."Question: to what extent does this happen in other app stores, and to what extent does it matter?Nexus 7 Teardown &gt;&gt; iFixitOne millimeter. That's the difference in thickness between the 9.4 mm glued iPad and the 10.4 mm retaining-clipped Nexus. That's the difference between being able to open a device and service all of its internals, and not.That's the negligible difference between extending the life of your device through repair, as opposed to tossing it in a landfill.And most of all, nobody will complain about that one millimeter difference in day-to-day use, but the user-serviceability it brings will make all the difference when the device breaks.User-serviceability ought to count for a lot, yet it doesn't. Why not?Microsoft's 'Lost Decade'? Vanity Fair piece is epic, accurate and not entirely fair &gt;&gt; GeekWireThe actual article isn't yet available on newsstands or online, but I've read an advance copy of the full piece, and it's pretty epic.Eichenwald talks with a bunch of former execs and documents Microsoft's problems during the past decade -- including its unsuccessful efforts to compete with Apple's consumer devices, its stubborn insistence that products revolve around Windows, its massive online losses, the negative repercussions of its stack-ranking system for employee evaluations, and much more.It's a well-written tale, and an entertaining read. Unless I'm missing something, Microsoft won't be able to point to any significant inaccuracies. There aren't any huge surprises for anyone who has been following the company. The internal emails cited by Eichenwald, for example, have all been made public previously through leaks and court cases. (I felt at times like I was reading a synopsis of stories I wrote years ago.)See below for the link you should read.Microsoft: acknowledging the aQuantive mistake &gt;&gt; Hal's (Im)Perfect VisionTo me there are three phases in Steve's leadership of Microsoft.Excellent, long, detailed blogpost by an ex-Microsoftie explaining how the company got where it is now. Read this rather than Vanity Fair.Who runs UK? 'Tories, Lib Dems and Google' says Labour &gt;&gt; The RegisterGoogle's huge lobbying influence over UK policy makers has been criticised by Conservative Party backer and entrepreneur Luke Johnson, who described the online superpower as a parasite, compared it to Rockefeller's Standard Oil, and suggested it should be broken up.Google paid for Tory Prime Minister David Cameron and his team to fly around the US in 2005 - before he took power at the last election - and leading party figures have close personal ties to the company's executives.[Labour deputy prime minister Harriet] Harman pointed to the Coalition's industrial policy - particularly its assault on the successful UK creative industries - as an example of the Coalition following a Google-friendly but ultimately harmful strategy.Don't expect any time in Google's jet, Labourinos.Galaxy Nexus ICS ROM restores Facebook contacts sync - SlashGearFacebook and Google may have fallen out over contacts sync, Google stripping support for adding Facebook friends into the Android address bookback in the Nexus S days, but that hasn't stopped modders from adding it back into Ice Cream Sandwich.Translation: ICS still doesn't support Facebook contacts sync.CERN scientists inexplicably present Higgs boson findings in Comic Sans &gt;&gt; The VergeFor many of us, the most shocking revelation to come out of CERN's Higgs boson announcement today was quite unrelated to the science itself. Rather, we were blown away by the fact that a team made up of some of the most undoubtedly brilliant people in the world believe that Comic Sans is an appropriate font for such a historic occasion.Sorry, forwhatof us? Remember, they were dealing with the media.RealNetworks CEO resigns, Glaser steps back into role for now &gt;&gt; Puget Sound Business JournalAfter only eight months on the job, RealNetworks CEO Thomas Nielsen has stepped down. Former CEO and current Chairman of the Board Rob Glaser will step in as interim CEO until a replacement can be found."The board and Thomas mutually agreed that the CEO position wasn't the right fit," Glaser said in a press release Tuesday.Remember RealNetworks?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Apple lost a key patent battle against smartphone rival HTC in the high court in London today, meaning that the Silicon Valley company cannot ban certain of the Taiwanese firm's products in Britain.As rumours intensified that Apple is about to launch a cut-price version of its iPad to grab even more of the tablet market, HTC won what one independent lawyer called a "significant" victory after the high court invalidated a patent  covering the "slide to unlock" method used to access the main screen. That means that Apple cannot ban imports to the UK of HTC phones that use a similar system – and the decision could affect other Apple cases in Europe against HTC, Motorola and Samsung.Elsewhere, Bloomberg reported that two sources have told it that Apple is preparing an iPad with a 7in screen – about half the area of its current 10in product. The smaller version could be priced to fight off competition from Amazon and Google, which both have similar offerings: Amazon's Kindle Fire, and Google's Nexus 7, made by Asus and expected to go on sale later in July.The UK court ruling is the latest round in an international patent war between Apple and rivals that make handsets and tablets using Google's Android mobile software, which is now the most used on smartphones worldwide.Earlier this week Apple won an injunction against Samsungpreventing it from importing its Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablets and Galaxy Nexus smartphone into the US. In response, Samsung and Google are working on a software patch to change how the devices work and circumvent the cause of the injunction.Peter Bell, senior associate in the intellectual property team at law firm Stevens &amp; Bolton LLP, said the decision was "a considerable defeat" for Apple in the smartphone patent wars: "Two of Apple's prize patents have been knocked out in the UK, including the patent that protects the 'slide to unlock' mechanism that consumers are likely to associate with Apple's products, and a third patent has been knocked out in part. The fourth patent that was in dispute was held not to be invalid, but not infringed by HTC's devices."Bell suggests that Apple will take the case to the court of appeal, while HTC will try to use the result in other ongoing cases around Europe. Richard Windsor, technology analyst at the stockbroker Nomura, said ahead of the ruling that: "The issue here remains Android. If these [Apple] patents stand up to examination at trial and are found to be valid then there are substantial implications for all Android devices, as it's that software where the infringement claims are being made."Apple UK on Wednesday declined to comment on the judgment, but reiterated its stance on patents, saying in a statement that "We think competition is healthy, but competitors should create their own original technology, not steal ours."Interest in a smaller iPad has intensified, meanwhile, with rumours that Apple will launch such a device, which have circulated on the internet since May 2010, growing as sources in the supply industry have begun to suggest it will happen. Apple has previously taken a similar approach in the music player market, which it dominated with the iPod as the iPad now does with tablets, offering smaller versions at lower prices to shut out rivals.Bloomberg declined to name its sources, or a date when the product might be launched, but many expect it would launch in the autumn, perhaps alongside a new version of the iPhone. Apple executives declined Guardian requests for comment.Apple has about 61% of the tablet market, which researchers DisplaySearch say will be worth $66.4bn this year. A smaller version could undercut Google and Amazon's ambitions to get a profitable slice of the market, Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne Agee &amp; Leach, told Bloomberg: he reckoned Apple could price it at about $199, the same price as the Kindle Fire and Nexus 7. "It would be the competitors' worst nightmare," he said. "The ball is in Apple's court." While Android tablets have a sizeable share of the market, none apart from Samsung has over 10%.Microsoft is also trying to shift into the tablet market, having announced that it will make and market an 11in device, the Surface, though no price or launch date has been given.Wu told Bloomberg that the gross margin on the latest iPad is about 37% of its price, and that Apple could earn a similar profit on a smaller iPad by using a cheaper screen, while charging a bit more than rivals – and even then not lose sales. "This isn't like the old days, when it cost thousands of dollars more to buy an Apple product," Wu said. "Fifty or a hundred bucks wouldn't be enough to make someone switch [from Apple]."If Apple releases a smaller iPad, it would directly contradict the late Steve Jobs's withering criticism of such devices in October 2010, when he said people would have to sandpaper their fingers to make the tips small enough to use the devices. But Jobs was not above misdirection either: in September 2005, asked whether Apple would launch iPods able to play video, he said it wasn't clear what the use would be. One month later, Apple launched the first iPod capable of playing video.• This article was amended on 6 July 2012 to clarify that the injunction Apple won against Samsung prevents it from importing its Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablets.
Disney is launching internet safety campaigns targeting 100m children and parents in Europe, the Middle East and Africa based on its Club Penguin virtual world, capitalising on the recent paedophile scandal surrounding rival Habbo Hotel.Disney says it will put up £3m of media to support the campaigns: essentially advertising space on its TV channels, websites and magazines across the EMEA region, as well as on Club Penguin and its other virtual worlds.Club Penguin co-founder Lane Merrifield – now executive vice president of Disney Online Studios following Disney's $350m acquisition of the virtual world in August 2007 – announced the initiative in a keynote speech at the Children's Media Conference in Sheffield."From the very start, our vision for Club Penguin was to create a safe place for my kids and their friends to play online. The scale may now be bigger than I could ever have imagined but that philosophy has not changed," said Merrifield in the keynote."Education is the final piece of the puzzle in terms of kids' safety online… As an industry I think we can help teach kids the lessons that they need to become responsible digital citizens."Club Penguin remains the largest virtual world for children, with 175m accounts created since it launched. It now has users in 190 countries. Merrifield's commitment to child safety is genuine, but the new education campaign must also be seen in relation to Habbo Hotel's recent troubles.A Channel 4 News investigation appeared to show that sexualised chat and sexual approaches to young users were common on Habbo. Investors 3i and Balderton subsequently handed back their stakes in the company, while several British retailers stopped selling Habbo gift cards.Rigorous safety measures are thus even more of a competitive advantage for virtual worlds aimed at children. Disney says Club Penguin has a team of UK moderators based in Brighton, who receive regular training from the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre.Club Penguin also has a relationship with Childnet International, which runs internet safety sessions in British schools.Myths about children and digitalMerrifield's keynote didn't just focus on child safety. He talked about the lessons learned since Club Penguin's launch in 2005, and challenged what he sees as five myths around how children play online.First: the idea that digital has changed the fundamentals of play. Merrifield drew a direct link between what Club Penguin does, and the toy soldiers he played with as a child."We know that unstructured play is a very good thing for kids. They love to be social, they love to role-play, and they love surprises," he said. "Unstructured play is not a new idea: it's been around since the dawn of time. All we did was take this unstructured play and apply it to the digital space."The second myth, according to Merrifield, was the notion that children are focused on themselves. "That kids ultimately are just selfish, and just care about what's in it for them," he said. "I don't believe that this is a core motivator for kids."Merrifield said that the children using Club Playground are affected by global events, and reflect them within the virtual world – from dressing pink for breast cancer or red for Japan to commemorating the anniversary of 9/11."We know that kids want to participate in making the world a better place," he said. "Appeals and support for causes shouldn't be something we just tack onto our entertainment experiences once a year just to tick a box."Myth number three: learning has to be structured and linear. "Much of our content doesn't push technology to its limits the way it could, or should," he said, suggesting educational content needs to be more dynamic, interactive and nonlinear – not to mention personalisable for individual children."We've invested millions of dollars in the last few years on innovating in this area," said Merrifield, promising an announcement in the coming weeks about Club Penguin's educational ambitions.The fourth myth targeted by Merrifield in his keynote was the notion that parents know best what children want – particularly when it comes to entertainment and digital content."If it doesn't matter to an eight year-old, it doesn't matter," he said. "This idea fuelled our decision-making… In fact, we bet our houses on it. Thankfully, kids will always tell you if they don't like something… Listening to our audience is key."Safety responsibilitiesThe final myth targeted by Merrifield in his speech is that responsibilities end with the digital experiences that companies create. The child-safety issue."We have to stand up as an industry and prioritise safety above all else," he said. "I dream of a day when safety is no longer a differentiator in the kids space." By which he meant a high enough level across every service, adding that Club Penguin has sat down with rivals to help them with their safety policies in the past.However, he also said Club Penguin has filed patents for some of its filtering and moderation technology, which jibes somewhat with the idea of safety not being a differentiator.This isn't just about paedophiles preying on children though: Merrifield talked about the importance of moderation in spotting people who might be in trouble – depressed and/or suicidal – and acting on that, in partnership with the police and other authorities."Building trust with parents means not simply marketing safety, but actually achieving it," he added. "I truly believe that self-regulation can work, but as an industry we need to be clear and accountable for the standards that we set ourselves."In the ensuring Q&amp;A, Merrifield was asked for his views on whether Facebook should be allowing children to officially sign up for that social network, as has been rumoured."I think they need to, I think they've got a responsibility to just based on the amount of kids that are on Facebook now," he said. "We're preparing for the potential of it. I actually think it would be a really good thing."Finally, Merrifield talked about the future for children's media, hailing the opportunities "as the boundaries of platforms are disappearing, and new methods of storytelling are emerging… I believe that storytellers of the future will need to be able to think three-dimensionally about their characters and story arcs."Merrifield also suggested that stories will evolve not just based on who's reading/hearing/playing them, but on what devices they're using to access them."If a child chooses to engage on a mobile device or through toys, their experience can be similar or different to a friend who chooses to use other platforms to engage with the story… It becomes the ultimate choose-your-own-adventure."
Video games have a strange relationship with death. It happens all the time, of course – a thousand times a second in one of the big online shooters. Death is part of the language, the very fibre of game design.But yet, games rarely question it, rarely confront it. While movies and literature have pored over its implications, its finality (or otherwise), games have been content to use it as a penalty, or a dramatic plot device in a cinematic sequence.Some titles, such as the Soul Reaver series have attempted to explore the duality of the physical and spiritual worlds, while ethereal adventures like Shadow of the Colossus and Limbo have dealt with notions of post-mortal guilt and purgatory. But mostly, death is just a glyph in the gaming grammar, a means of progressing from one game state to another.Beyond: Two Souls could be very different. The latest adventure from Quantic Dreams, the developer of last year's controversial thriller Heavy Rain, follows Jodie Holmes, a young girl with psychic abilities and a close, symbiotic relationship with a spectral being named Aidan.The narrative follows Jodie through 15 years of her life – from child, to teenager, to young adult – as she flees the police and the FBI, who know about and fear her unusual powers. At any time in the game, players are able to take control of Aidan, exploring the environment, moving through walls, and throwing objects using a telekinetic thrust. The sprint is also able to possess other characters, manipulating their behaviour.This 15-year period, however, could be just the beginning. During an E3 presentation of the game, Quantic Dreams founder David Cage, the writer and director of all the studio's projects, hints that play may well continue further, into Jodie's afterlife. Here, death is not about game over, or even about re-spawning; it is about transition."I was interested in the idea of how we grow, how we change and evolve through time," says Cage when I ask about this biographical structure. "But I was also interested in how the strong moments in our lives make us who we are – I wanted to write something about this; it seemed like a great opportunity to try something new."The other inspiration came from my personal life – I lost someone very close to me, and when you're confronted with death, it's always painful. It made me think about what comes afterwards – I just wanted to make my own story about that."His response is candid and emotional; we're talking in a back room off Sony Europe's E3 meeting area and for a few seconds I'm not sure where I should take this. Amid the bluster of the show, the simulated violence, the pounding techno, this feels suddenly incongruous. It feels raw.Apprehensively, I ask whether the project is some sort of outlet for grief, a means of coming to terms with it? "It definitely helps," he says. "It helps to try to find something that makes sense. As a storyteller your job is to give meaning to things, to life … heh, as if life had a meaning!"During his E3 demo of Beyond, Cage took journalists through a 10-minute sequence from the game. We see Jodie huddled alone and asleep on a train as it rumbles through the darkened countryside and slowly comes to a halt in the middle of nowhere. Police are milling about outside, and, taking control of Aidan, Cage is able to venture out and among them, learning that the cops are here for Jodie. Aidan wakes his companion by forcing a bag to drop on her and she's off, running through the compartment.From here, the control system has distinct similarities with Heavy Rain's contextual button pressing. Arrows and icons appear on screen, requiring the player to tap in the correct responses, allowing Jodie to belt through doors and over obstacles, kicking away at the police who desperately grab at her.As she rushes into a toilet, Aidan aids her escape by ripping a roof panel away, allowing her to climb out. Then she's into the forest, legging it through the trees – this part is apparently free to control, the player able to pick their own route through the undergrowth, the searchlights of a police helicopter strafing across the rain-slick foliage.I bring up the control system. It was a much-debated aspect of Heavy Rain. Some got on with it, acknowledging that this was a game more about narrative and emotion than controllers and interfaces; others complained about the restrictive nature, referring to the much-derided concept of "quicktime events" – the highly theatrical, barely interactive sequences dreamed up by game designer Yu Suzuki for his vast, similarly ambitious Dreamcast adventure, Shenmue.QTEs weren't popular then, either. Cage hates the term and is quick to explain how Beyond is an evolution of the system. "We built it on Heavy Rain, of course," he concedes. "We looked at what worked, what didn't work, and we tried to improve on it."But at the same time, the big difference is that now you can switch freely between the human being, Jodie, and this entity. And when you're controlling the entity you're invisible – you can do what you want. You can float through walls … for me it was very interesting to have this switch between interacting with the real world and interacting with another view of that world…"Jodie heads out onto a road and spots a group of policemen and a cluster of vehicles. Switching control to Aidan allows the player to see the spiritual auras of the cops – orange means the character is susceptible to possession. Inhabiting the body of one officer, Aidan gets in to a car and drives it across the road, blocking the rest of the squad from Jodie, who can escape on a motorbike.Again, the player gets free control as she rockets along the highway; she reaches a police ambush point, where Aidan creates a shield to protect her from their bullets. There's a constant sense of interplay between Jodie and her spirit companion; it will clearly provide a key element in the story's progression.The demo ends in a deserted dead-end town. Jodie is trapped, surrounded by SWAT teams, snipers on rooftops, police cars heading in. "If they're looking for trouble," she says amid the pouring rain, "that's what they're going to get".From here, it's apparently a sandbox situation. Using Aidan, the player can venture up on to the roof, possessing a sniper and making him fire on his colleagues. Possessing a SWAT team member gives you access to his grenades – which can be used in fiery combination with a nearby petrol station.Cage does all this, closing out by possessing a chopper pilot who crashes into the centre of the street in a mushroom cloud of flame and smoke. Surveying the wreckage, Jodie looks out at the survivors: "Tell them to leave me alone or next time I'll kill everyone," she yells. And we're out.It's fascinating stuff, the lead character veering between fear and intense aggression. Here, the casting is inspired. Quantic Dreams brought in Juno star Ellen Page to provide the voice and appearance of Jodie – and it's a great fit, this sequence recalling the mix of vulnerability and rage that Page brought to her breakthrough performance in the dark thriller Hard Candy."It's funny, because I really wrote the script with Ellen in mind, before knowing we'd work together," says Cage. "Jodie is young, she's fragile, but she has this strength and determination inside her. I just thought of Ellen."We talked about the character, I gave her a lot of direction but at the same time there were moments in the session where shewasJodie, she really merged with the character – it was really her, she knew what Jodie would do and wouldn't do. It was really amazing to see her on stage; I mean, she was laughing, smiling, crying, shouting, screaming, fighting, doing all these things – but it was always Jodie. She's amazing."Beyond the convincing performance, there's something troubling about this closing sequence. Jodie is being pushed as a sympathetic character, but yet, the finale is hyper violent and destructive. It's like the prom ending of Carrie. I ask Cage about this; do we have to accept violence as part of Jodie's story?"It's all going to be clear; it's going to be very clear to players when they see the full game," he says. "There's a context. I mean, keep in mind that Aidan is not a human being, he doesn't have morals or religious beliefs, he doesn't differentiate between what's living and what's dead, because maybe death is not the end, so he has a very different approach. I can't explain everything, but believe me, it will all make sense."We talk about the design process, about how game projects come together at Quantic Dream.  Cage tends to write alone, working for up to a year on a script, which can end up being 4000 pages long – he'll edit that down by half, and then the production process begins."I never think about a story without gameplay, or gameplay without story," he says. "Each must support the other in order for it to work. But what's really interesting is, when you start working, you think you know what you want to write; then after a year you realise that this is not actually what you're writing about – there are other themes that appear."It's like your unconscious writes for you, in a way. I thought I was writing about this journey, this road trip, I was quite blunt about everything – but actually what I ended up with was very different. That's what I love most about writing – that point where you discover what youactuallywrote!"I wonder if there's a moral element to Jodie's journey, and about the subtext that Cage discovered. In the West, we're used to a Judeo-Christian slant on the afterlife, of a clear dichotomy between good and evil, heaven and hell; does this factor into Beyond's universe?"There is a moral journey but not in a religious way," says Cage. "It's much more about Jodie'spersonaljourney, about what she wants to do with her life – where she wants to go, how she sees the 15 years she's spent through the narrative. This is not about heaven and hell; there is no God in my story. It's another vision of the afterlife."This is not the sort of conversation I usually have at E3, or that anyone usually has with developers at E3. There is no room for metaphysics or ontological enquiry in Call of Duty or NintendoLand. That's fine for some players, but as a medium, games are still so narrow and channeled in terms of what they can and can't explore – it feels like such a waste of potential.It's interesting how readily French studios – not just Quantic Dreams, but also Ubisoft, Delphine, Cryo – have happily embraced the more poetic, the more philosophical potential of this medium."Heavy Rain changed the way I make games, forever," says Cage. "From there, you cannot go back to standard conventions. We heard incredible stories from gamers – people told me that when they had to decide whether or not to kill somebody to save their son, they turned off the console for two weeks to think about it. That's meaningful; it's powerful."That's why I was working so hard in this medium, why I believed in it from the start – it was for this kind of story. And with Beyond, we want to explore the same things - we're interested in human nature, in relationships, in emotions …"He pauses, and for a few seconds the noise of E3 drifts into the room, the endless chug of machine-gun fire, the thumping drums of some thrash metal soundtrack."What I like about games is, they work like a mirror," says Cage, after a moment. "They ask you a question and you're supposed to answer it. And once you've made up your mind, the game shows you who you are; it makes you think about who you are."On this optimistic appraisal of the medium, we're done. But outside, a few yards down a hallway flanked by journalists typing furiously into their laptops, a thousand new games beckon, most depicting death in some way, very few asking questions of it or of us.• Beyond: Two Souls is due for release later in 2012
The European Parliament has overwhelmingly defeated the international Acta anti-piracy agreement, delighting its opponents and plunging its supporters into gloom.The vote is the first time that the parliament has used its powers under the Lisbon Treaty to reject an international trade agreement.However, other countries such as the US and Japan are expected to continue with implementing it.Acta could still be revived if the European Commission, the executive arm of the EU, considers that it needs to be implemented and wins a court decision over it.The parliamentary vote on approving the bill on Wednesday saw 478 against and 39 in favour, with 165 abstentions.The defeat brings to an end years of secret international negotiations, during which opponents of the treaty had complained that it was not being given sufficient public examination to determine whether its proposals were excessive or reasonable.When it finally surfaced and became the topic of European Parliament discussion, opponents complained that it could, if interpreted strictly, lead to censorship and loss of privacy online.Fears that the treaty would limit internet freedom had mobilised broad opposition across Europe, leading to demonstrations in a number of cities in the spring.Wednesday's decision means that as far as the EU is concerned, the treaty is dead – at least for the moment – though other countries may participate.A spokesman for the European Commission said it might try again after it obtained a court ruling on whether the agreement violated fundamental EU rights. If it did not, the EC might revive it – a move that the treaty's supporters called for after the vote.Frances Moore – chief executive of the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry, representing record labels – urged the European Parliament to make effective intellectual property rights enforcement a top priority in its external trade policy.Supporters said Acta, which stands for Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement, was needed to standardise international laws that protect intellectual property rights."Acta is an important tool for promoting European jobs and intellectual property," said Anne Bergman-Tahon, director of the Federation of European Publishers, a member of a coalition of more than 130 organisations supporting Acta."Unfortunately, the treaty got off on the wrong foot in the parliament, and the real and significant merits of the treaty did not prevail."Opponents of Acta were jubilant. David Martin, Socialists and Democrats Euro MP and author of the parliamentary report on the treaty, said after the vote: "ACTA is now dead in the EU thanks to the European Parliament."I am very pleased that the parliament has followed my recommendation and rejected Acta. The treaty is too vague and is open to misinterpretation. I will always support civil liberties over intellectual property rights protection in the EU."Jim Killock, executive director of the UK's Open Rights Group (ORG)said: "This is a tremendous victory for the movement, for democracy and for every European citizen that has demanded that their rights be respected. Acta must be abandoned. The commission must drop its calls to try again."ORG would like to thank the thousands of activists from the UK that helped persuade MPs to stand up for democracy."Supporters of Acta noted that its international status meant some countries would implement it anyway."[That] is a significant loss for the 27 EU member states," said Alan  Drewsen, executive director of the International Trademark Association.Socialists and Democrats president Hannes Swoboda said in a statement: "The commission and the council will now be aware that they cannot overrun the Parliament, which represents and defends citizens."But now it is time to look forward and tell the commission that we are willing to work hand in hand on fighting counterfeiting and protecting copyright with full respect to fundamental freedoms. This time we will do it in the light of public opinion and involve a wide range of citizens and stakeholders from the start."But Dominick Luquer, secretary-general of the International Federation of Actors, said: "The debate around Acta has unfortunately been framed in terms of censorship and 'breaking of the internet' rather than about protecting the economic basis for jobs in Europe."Organisations supporting Acta said that it had the backing of organisations which employed more than 120 million workers in Europe.
Social games developer FreshPlanet has launched a new version of its popular Song Pop game for iOS. The existing version is free to download and play, butSong Pop Premiumcharges £1.49 upfront.Why opt for the new paid version? Its App Store listing cites three reasons: the ability to "play with twice as many friends at once", as well as "extended, HD quality music clips" and the fact that the game is "totally ad-free, forever".Song Pop launched in early May, and is available on iOS, Android and Facebook's website. As a game, it follows the template laid down by Draw Something earlier in 2012, except with music rather than scribbling.Players play rounds where they have to identify five songs, before challenging Facebook friends in head-to-head matches to be quicker. Until now, the business model has been a mixture of advertising and in-app purchases for coins used to unlock additional music categories.Song Pop has been growing fast in recent weeks, thanks in part to a recommendation from Facebook's chief executive Mark Zuckerberg, whoposted"Song Pop is one of the most fun Facebook games I've played in a while," on the social network on 21 June.According to analytics site AppData, SongPop has1.9m daily active users(DAUs) at the time of writing, having added 400k in the last week. It has 5.9m monthly active users (MAUs), up 2m in the same period.Song Pop's active user base is still growing, although it has a way to go to match Draw Something, which despite slumping from its heyday earlier in the year,still has 4.4m DAUsand 21.1m MAUs.That said, it has lost 400k DAUs in the last week, raising the prospect – if both games continue on their current trajectories – that Song Pop could overtake Draw Something for DAUs within a month. The caveat being that Draw Something doesn't have a web-Facebook version.Adding a premium version for iOS follows the strategy adopted by Draw Something's developer OMGPOP, but also by Zynga for its With Friends series of games, which all have free and premium versions available on iOS.Zynga chief executive Mark Pincus is certainly aware of Song Pop. In fact, he's playing it, since his profile is available to challenge for his Facebook friends playing the game.The question now is whether Zynga will acquire Song Pop before one of its rivals does – or whether its experience with Draw Something's falling figures following Zynga's $180m acquisition of OMGPOP will put it off a second deal of that nature.
A selection of 12 new and notable apps today:Dead TriggerMadfinger Games' Dead Trigger made a splash on iOS last week, but now it's available on Android too. The zombie-strewn first-person shooter looks spiffing, while owners of devices with Tegra processors inside get extra ragdoll effects and water simulation. Remember, Googleshowed the game offat its Nexus 7 tablet launch as showcasing that device's grunt...AndroidSong Pop PremiumDraw-Something-For-Music game Song Pop is still growing fast – 1.9m daily active users at the time of writing – but until now its mobile version has been a freemium affair. Now there's a Premium edition costing £1.49, which promises no ads, "extended, HD-quality music clips" and the ability to have twice as many matches on the go.iPhone / iPadCloud DJThis is very interesting: an app capable of streaming songs from music service SoundCloud, and then mixing, scratching and sampling them in real-time. In other words, you can play DJ with whatever tracks have been uploaded to SoundCloud, on the fly.iPhoneOfficial Top 40 Chart AppBig news from Samsung in the UK, which has teamed up with startup MusicQubed to launch an app based on the Top 40 singles chart. For a £1 weekly subscription, the app downloads the entire Top 40 to play locally on your Android device. It'll be preloaded on Samsung Galaxy devices, and available on the Google Play store.AndroidGo 2012Getting excited about the Olympic Games yet? Here's a very stylish unofficial guide to the Games, offering the entire schedule in list or grid format, as well as news and a live medal table once they get underway. Actually looks like it may be easier to use than the official app.Android / iPhoneLondon Official City GuideTalking of the Olympics, Boris Johnson himself unveiled this official guide to the host city earlier this week. Based on content from the Visit London site, it promises a guide to events around the capital during the Games, as well as other tourist information. It's iPhone-only at the moment, but an Android version is coming too.iPhoneMy Aveda MakeoverBeauty brand Aveda has a new iPad app promising to help people "tap into your dream hair". Which means superimposing a range of haircuts onto your face, then sharing them on Facebook or Twitter for the admiring praise (or cutting abuse) of friends.iPadBarclaycard Wireless Festival 2012Vodafone has launched the official app for this year's Barclaycard Wireless Festival in London, with lineup details, a map, social features and weather. The link above is for Android, buthere's the BlackBerry versionandhere's the iPhone version.Android / BlackBerry / iPhonePhoto GeniusPhoto-editing startup Aviary has launched a new standalone app for Windows Phone. Photo Genius promises "quick and easy" photo-editing on the move, with a range of individual tools and a one-tap auto-enhance function.Windows PhoneBrighton &amp; Hove Albion: A New DawnEnglish football club Brighton's longstanding quest to find a permanent stadium won support from fans around the country – and indeed the world. Now the club's first season in that venue has been commemorated in an iOS app by the local Argus newspaper, offering articles from throughout the year.iPhone / iPadThe Sushi SpinneryIf you, like me, can't get enough of Japanese publisher Kairosoft's simulation games, here's a treat (albeit an Android-only treat for now). The company's latest game involves running a sushi bar, using the same upgrade/expand mechanics as all the company's previous titles.AndroidThe Voyage of UlyssesGreek myths are getting the interactive book-app treatment now, with The Voyage of Ulysses the work of developer Elastico. Expect lots of moving objects, animated illustrations and a physics engine to power them all.iPad• This article was amended on 5 July 2012. The original mentioned Vodafone's recharge truck, which will not now be present at the Wireless festival. This has been corrected.
Today, a small British game studio named Angry Mango will launch its debut game onto the Windows Phone platform.Mushis a beautiful platformer with a brilliant emotional interface, allowing players to access the special powers of the lead character by drawing happy or sad expressions on the touchscreen. Last year, the game won the prestigious Dare To Be Digital competition and has earned glowing previews from throughout the gaming press.But it hasn't been easy. The small team of students has had to endure financial hardship and endless bug fixing to get the game onto the Windows gaming platform. And it will be just one of the thousands of smartphone titles hitting app stores today.So how should a young studio approach the development process? Here, Henry Hoffman and Ahmed Zaman from Angry Mango tells us what they've learned from the last two years.Embrace university... and then your parentsThe Angry Mango team were all studying at the University of Wales, Newport, when they started work on Mush. Not only did this provide an environment of creativity and dedication, it also released them from the financial imperatives of the 'real world'."Staying afloat has been tough," says Hoffman. "Using our time at University for the first half of development was really essential, and when that came to an end, the noose tightened. We tried to continue full-time for a while, but in the end we had to get 'normal' jobs to support working on Mush in our spare time. I was generally working nine to five for my day job, then six to twelve in the evenings for Angry Mango."My biggest piece of advice for newcomers is to maximise time at university, where you're comparatively free from financial restraints. It's only with reflection that I see how valuable that really was. Alternatively, setting aside time to focus on a project between stints of work will allow for a healthier balance. Getting funding is a great way to do this, and some of my close friends have been really successful in this area".Small studios can apply for funding from various bodies in the UK. The University of Abertay offers a grant to independent developers, whileTiga, the UK trade body for British game developers, has launched a funding contest. Several UK universities and science parks also run incubation projects for small high-tech businesses, providing cheap office space and fast broadband to successful applicants.Finally, the practical advice every ex-student dreads. "Live with your parents while you can!" says Hoffman. "It might not be much fun, but it's often a lot cheaper. If you're head-down coding all day, it won't make much difference!"Embrace the communityGames development is more about community than competition, but the two can be combined. There are several national competitions for burgeoning studios, most notably, the University of Abertay'sDare to Be Digital, a nine-week residential game development programme, followed by prizes of £2500 for the three best titles. There are also dozens of game jams throughout the country every year, giving small teams the chance to developer their rapid prototyping skills while meeting like-minded people."Entering competitions is really important," says Hoffman. "Dare to be Digital is a great student competition that catapulted us into the deep end, and it's really where our game began. Right from the outset we had mentors from Rockstar, Ruffian and Rare helping us with making tough decisions, and that's something you won't get anywhere else."There's an emerging rule of indie development: no game is created entirely in isolation. Game competitions as well as online forums, social networks and developer programmes have put the global community of developers in touch with each other allowing ad-hoc collaborations at every stage. "From an early point at Dare to be Digital we found the Microsoft development community to be very helpful and supportive," says Hoffman. "The great thing about a set of tools that have been around for a while is the huge collection of open source libraries that we were able to use in development. Utilising them enabled us to concentrate more on making the game, rather than reinventing the wheel".Embrace mobileAlthough the glamour of console development is attractive, dedicated gaming platforms are tough to develop for and attempting a 3D action adventure for your first title is likely to lead to ruin and frustration rather than Uncharted 4."Mobile games are a great place to start," argues Hoffman. "They maybe don't have the glamour of console titles or the indie-cred of PC games, but the good ones focus on a simple concept done well. Simplicity is a lot easier to pull off when you're just starting out! Getting a game out there on mobile is a lot easier too, even if it's rough around the edges - the credibility that comes with having a published title is really invaluable".Embrace clean codeProgramming a game isn't just about hacking away, getting a single project on screen and working – it's about building a base for subsequent updates and maybe even sequels. That's how the commercial industry works these days."I must admit, we started off with very little experience programming full games," says Zaman. "One of the key things that we have learnt is the importance of maintaining good, clean code. 'Good programming practice' might seem unnecessary at first, but keeping the standards high really pays off in the long run. Especially further down the road, when you try to port, re-visit or rewrite code."I'd also want to emphasise the need to write portable code. This is a concept that coders realise once they've moved games from platform to platform, and really see the advantage later in the porting process. As there are so many mobile devices out there that use various combinations of hardware, software and tools, maintaining portable code becomes really important to allow for quick transferability between platforms - something that is vital for successful mobile games".Zaman advises young developers to test their code often and under as many platform scenarios as possible. "The latest mobile phones have started to come with features like fast app switching  and multitasking, so writing code that takes this into consideration is important. Sanitychecks are the easiest and cleanest way to save the game from crashing!"Embrace a business expert"Throughout this process, one of the things I've learnt is that I'm a much better games designer than I am a businessman," admits Hoffman. "I actually enjoy the stress that comes with games development, the crunching, the compromises, the arguments – they all feel like part of a creative process. When it comes to business though, there's lots of drudgery, paperwork, forms you don't understand and managing finance. If you're trying to stay creative and sharp, the business side of things can really bog you down."Another thing we've found is that some institutions look to take advantage of you. Companies recognise that you're young and inexperienced and try to exploit that. We could have avoided a lot of these sorts of problems by getting someone on board with more business nous from the offset. Business-minded people can also save you money in the long run, with their better knowledge of funding avenues and alternative income streams. This has been one of our biggest lessons learnt, and something we're looking to rectify quickly".Again, universities can help here, with most providing business advice to students, often as part of incubation programmes. Developer bodies like Tiga may be useful, too. And remember, this is a community – there is always someone on Twitter, at a game jam or a games conference who knows what you're going through.Mush is available now on Windows Phone.
[Editor's note: Technobile is the column, formerly found in print, where people get the hate for a piece of technology out of their system.]I'm starting to hate my iPad. There, I've said it. And I'm rather sad to have said it, because when I first got it, I loved it. (Though I did find afew things missing even then. Alarm clock, anyone?) I still think it's a beautiful piece of hardware, and I salute Apple for having created a whole new paradigm of computing (even thoughMicrosoft was talking about tablet computersway before Steve Jobs announced the iPad).But at just two years old, my iPad is now pretty much obsolete. And that's a deliberate strategy by Apple, which wants me – and you – to buy another iPad.There was a time when iOS upgrades made my lovely iPad even better: they bought cut-and-paste, the Game Center and Newsstand to the device. But then as subsequent versions of iOS rolled out, I started to be locked out of features. No Siri. No iPhoto. Officially, it's because the hardware isn't up to the fancy new tricks, though in fact you canforce iPhoto on to your first-generation iPad.The final straw, though, came with the announcement that the next version of iOS –iOS6– won't be available for my iPad.If you couldn't upgrade the operating system of a two-year-old PC, there would be uproar. We expect our computing hardware to last more than two years, and that seems pretty reasonable to me.In fact, you can upgrade pretty ancient PC hardware. I've got a very elderly Compaq laptop that originally came with Windows XP on it: I recently put the consumer preview version of Windows 8 on it, and it runs just fine.Which is more than I can say for my iPad. I've just about given up using it, because it runs like treacle. Particularly thick, sticky treacle. It's worst when I'm using the browser: finger taps take what feels like an age to respond, pages take a long time to load, there's a delay between tapping on a letter and it actually appearing on the screen.More generally, apps crash back to the desktop on a tiresomely regular basis, they load sluggishly, screens take just a wee bit too long to render and text input is laggy. I wish I hadn't put iOS5 on it, but you can't downgrade the operating system on the iPad as you can on a PC: Apple won't let you. (Well, you can, but it's fiddly and you have to jailbreak your iPad, which puts a lot of people off.)What makes me cross is that Apple has deliberately restricted the life of my iPad. If you look at itsfinancial results(PDF) you'll see that of its overall revenues of $39.1bn (£25bn) in the second quarter of this year, just $832m of that was generated by software. This underlines the fact that Apple is a hardware company, and as such, it wants you to keep buying its hardware.It's in its financial interests to hobble the hardware it makes with software updates so that you'll cast aside your now-sluggish iPad (or MacBook Air or MacBook Pro) and shell out for a new shiny long before the hardware itself dies.Well, I'm not buying a new iPad. If I buy another tablet, I want one that will continue to work well for more than two years, just as I expect all kinds of other hardware – PCs, stereos, cameras, fridges – to work well for more than two years. And I'll buy it from a company that doesn't deliberately hobble its hardware with its software.
Congratulations, you've made it to the middle of the working week. Now celebrate by spending the day with us, chatting about games!
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNew MacOS X backdoor variant used in APT attacks &gt;&gt; SecurelistTwo days ago we intercepted a new APT campaign using a new MacOS X backdoor variant targeted at Uyghur activists.But before we go into details, let's start with a quiz:The Dalai Lama walks into an Apple Store. Why?It does make sense, honest. More to the point: it seems that Mac-using activists are being targeted by Chinese-written malware.Spring cleaning in summer &gt;&gt; Official Google BlogMore services being axed: iGoogle (dying 1 November); Symbian Search App; Google Talk Chatback (embedded chat in websites); Google Mini (part of enterprise search); and, drum roll, Google Video - which preceded YouTube and was rapidly superseded by it.Crikey: EU rules you can resell downloaded games &gt;&gt; Rock, Paper, ShotgunWell here's some pretty huge news. The Court Of Justice of the European Union has just ruled that people should be able to resell downloaded games. In an environment where publishers are trying to destroy basic consumer rights like the ability to resell physical products you've paid for, this could be one heck of a turnaround for customers. And that's no matter what it might say in the EULAs. This could have absolutely enormous implications on how services like Steam, Origin, GamersGate and the like work, and finally restore some rights back to the gamer.Only if you can find the original packaging, though.Google patent filing would identify faces in videos, spot the You in YouTube &gt;&gt; EngadgetFace detection is a common sight in still photography, but it's a rarity in video outside of certain research projects. Google may be keen to take some of the mystery out of those clips through a just-published patent application: its technique uses video frames to generate clusters of face representations that are attached to a given person. By knowing what a subject looks like from various angles, Google could then attach a name to a face whenever it shows up in a clip, even at different angles and in strange lighting conditions.RIP Computer Science &gt;&gt; Andy Hedges(It's a big photo. Resize.)Microsoft's Downfall: Inside the executive e-mails and cannibalistic culture that felled a tech giant &gt;&gt; Vanity Fair blogEichenwald's conversations reveal that a management system known as "stack ranking"--a program that forces every unit to declare a certain percentage of employees as top performers, good performers, average, and poor - effectively crippled Microsoft's ability to innovate. "Every current and former Microsoft employee I interviewed - every one - cited stack ranking as the most destructive process inside of Microsoft, something that drove out untold numbers of employees," Kurt Eichenwald writes.A big piece coming up in Vanity Fair's August issue (on the streets very soon). It'll probably appear just as Microsoft has the embarrassment of making a net loss for the first time in its public history because of the aQuantive writedown.Twitter Transparency Report &gt;&gt; Twitter BlogHere's the full fat report.Twitter releases data on government requests for user information &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukAlmost 80% of all requests made to Twitter for information on its users to be released in the course of criminal investigations or other probes are made by the US government.The web is working for American businesses &gt;&gt; Official Google BlogIn fact, in 2011, Google's search and advertising tools helped provide $80bn of economic activity for 1.8m advertisers, website publishers and nonprofits across the U.S. You can see the state-by-state breakdown on oureconomic impact website.This sort of background-hum lobbying occurs when companies think they're under pressure from other externalities. Compare anexample from Microsoft in 2007. What's Google worried about?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
The government has paid consultants nearly £3m to help civil servants select companies to build a rural broadband network, only for the scheme to become trapped in a deadlock with Brussels.The BDUK process, under which the government has promised to spend £830m eliminating broadband black spots and bringing superfast speeds to rural locations by 2015, resulted in just two suppliers being selected and has been stalled for six months because European regulators are concerned it is not competitive.KPMG was paid £1,179,630 for "Temporary staff: interim managers" between 12&nbsp;July and 7 December last year, and a further £968,335 for "management consultants" between 12 January and 27 March this year, according to information published by the Department for Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS), which houses the BDUK team.A further £710,943 was spent with the law firm Pinsent Masons, while research house Analysys Mason received £68,000 for "modelling". BDUK is understood to have an administrative budget of £16.5m for the lifetime of the project, according to a job advertisement published by the agency last year.The government had originally hoped to design an open process in which community groups and private firms would be commissioned to build Europe's "best superfast broadband network".BDUK published a framework covering 35 local authority areas, which contractors competed to be allowed to supply.However, a number of companies including Geo and Cable &amp; Wireless pulled out last year and the selection criteria proved too high a hurdle for community groups. On Tuesday communications minister Ed Vaizey confirmed that only BT and Fujitsu had been selected.The companies signed contracts on Friday to become the exclusive recipients of millions in public funds, and will now begin to agree terms with individual councils. However, a DCMS spokeswoman said no work could start until Brussels gives the go-ahead."The European commission at a very senior level are very concerned that the incumbents [former national telecoms companies like BT] in Europe are not investing what they should be in fibre," said Malcolm Corbett, chief executive of the Independent Networks Co-operative Association (Inca), whose members include Geo and Fujitsu."Without competition incumbents will just go slowly. Fujitsu won't bid for all of the projects in the UK."If a significant number of counties end up with only BT bidding for their network what sort of deal are they going to get?"The sticking point with Brussels is understood to be that BT is not prepared to give companies wishing to rent its fibre or infrastructure sufficiently open access. Brussels wants rival companies such as TalkTalk and Sky to be able to rent BT's "dark" fibre and install their own electronic equipment to "light" it, as they do with copper broadband.Brussels may also want less restricted access for companies to lay their own cables along BT's ducts and telegraph poles.A BT spokesman said: "Discussions between the UK government and the commission continue on the issue of state aid. This is an EU issue as the commission is developing rules that need to work across Europe as well as taking the different conditions in the UK into consideration."We are working with the UK authorities for an outcome that both incentivises further investment in fibre broadband and delivers vibrant competition in broadband services."We believe there needs to be consistency with the wider regulatory framework which has given the UK the most competitive broadband environment in the world."
Free speech advocates have warned that online communications are being stifled by the growing efforts of US authorities to obtain records of messages posted on forums like Twitter.A judge in New Yorkthis week ruledthat Twitter must release three months of an Occupy Wall Street protester's online communications, and the website's owners have published data that shows theUS government is by far the most energetic pursuer of informationabout its users.Martin Stolar, an attorney for Malcolm Harris, one of 732 Occupy Wall Street protesters arrested on the Brooklyn Bridge roadway in New York last October, said warned of a chilling effect on free speech. "It sort of puts a damper on communication and peoples' ability to freely communicate if they know the government is going to be intercepting," he said.Prosecutors have pursued Twitter for details of Harris's tweets spanning three months in an attempt to find out whether he disobeyed police orders.Protesters argue that police did not give clear directions during the march, and in June a federal judge ruled that police hadfailed to give sufficient warningsagainst walking on the roadway. But Harris still faces a disorderly conduct charge.The decision to force Twitter to release Harris's tweets was handed down on the same day as a "transparency report" from the site, the first of its kind. The report logs the request for user information filed with Twitter by governments around the world. The United States has filed the most by far, with 679 such requests since January 1; Japan was a distant second with 98, and the United Kingdom came in third with 11.Elie Mystal, editor of US legal blogAbove The Law, said the legal ruling isn't a game-changer. "If you think about it, anything you tweet is 'public'," wrote Mystal in an email Tuesday. "If I wanted to use them against you, I could. If you tweeted 'I'm gonna stab Elie in the face' and then later I am stabbed in the face, certainly I would be allowed to look at your Twitter account and read that you had previously expressed your face-stabbing desire."Stolar, though, said the decision showed an outdated notion about the way people communicate. "I think the judge's opinion is from the last century," Stolar said.Last year, Sam Jewler relied heavily on Twitter to circulate an Occupy-published newspaper and raise awareness about voter representation in Washington DC. He said activists are aware – and wary – of the consequences."I think it's one of those mostly unspoken things that [people] are aware could happen," Jewler wrote in a Twitter message Tuesday. "We have to expect anything we post online to be used against us. If only government were so transparent."Twitter said in a statement on Tuesday that it was "disappointed" with the decision. "Twitter'sterms of servicehave long made it absolutely clear that its users own their content," the statement read. "We continue to have a steadfast commitment to our users and their rights."In a statement, chief assistant district attorney Daniel Alonso said he was "pleased that the court has ruled for a second time that the Tweets at issue must be turned over".He added: "We look forward to Twitter's complying and to moving forward with the trial." Harris's trial is expected to begin in December.
This week on Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoskiand Guardian technology editorCharles Arthurdiscuss profit warnings anddark clouds above the makers of Blackberry phones RIM(Research In Motion) and the announcement of a write down on the value ofMicrosoft's online advertising service aQuantive. Also Aleks talks to the authorAndrew Blumabout his new bookTubes: Behind the Scenes at the Internetwhich sets out to explain what the internet is made of and why it's important for us to think about how we purchase access to the web.
Crisis, what crisis? Thorsten Heins, chief executive of BlackBerry maker RIM, told a Canadian radio interviewer that he doesn't believe the company is in a "death spiral" and that "there's nothing wrong with the company as it exists right now".Heins was speaking less than a week after RIM unveiled quarterly results with an operating loss of $643m (£409m) and handset shipments which dipped to their lowest level since spring 2009, amid a smartphone market growing at 50% annually.Heins insisted to CBC Radio that "this company is not ignoring the world out there, nor is it in a death spiral. Yes, it is very, very challenged at the moment – specifically in the US market. The way I would describe it: we're in the middle of a transition".But, he added: "All that is in the making, it is in the works. This company is in the middle of it and I'm positive we will emerge successfully from that transition."Heins insisted that the BlackBerry 10 software platform, which has been delayed by almost a year so that it is not now expected until early 2013, would be a completely different way for RIM to address mobile computing.Analysts are less encouraging about RIM's future, suggesting that it could burn through its cash – about $1.4bn in cash and "short-term equivalents" and $800m in longer-term investments – if it does not find a rapid way to profitability.Heins took over in January after the board ejected the co-founders Mike Lazaridis and Jim Balsillie from their positions as co-chief executive and co-chairman, as RIM's woes deepened. It announced an operating loss of $142m for the quarter to the end of February; that deepened as handset sales fell in the succeeding three months.Heins said sales outside the US remain strong and that the transition to BB10 will be more than a product launch. The company is undergoing a huge staff reduction, cutting 5,000 of 16,500 jobs, and going through a cost reduction plan.Data released from ComScore on Tuesday suggests that the number of users of RIM's BlackBerrys among US consumers remained steady over the past month, though the company has lost users there in 10 of the past 12 months.
Thinking of attending the excellent Develop Conference in Brighton next Tuesday? If so, we have the perfect warm-up event for you. On Monday 9 July, Gamesblog is hosting its annual video game quiz at theCaroline of Brunswick pub.Teams of between four and five players are welcome to attend, and you'll be answering questions on the history of games and current industry affairs, as well as identifying screenshots and audio clips. This year, I'll be co-hosting the evening with my friends from digital gaming site,Hookshot, so you'll get to meet legendary games writers Simon Parkin, Christian Donlan and Will Porter. It's also a great chance to network with local games developers – who have, historically, fared pretty badly at the quiz.The evening starts at 8pm and you don't need to be signed up for Develop to attend – it's open to all.If you're interested in coming along and submitting a team, please do let me know at keith dot stuart at guardian dot co dot uk, or send me a Tweet at @keefstuart.See you there!
Activision has announced a new title in the blockbusting Call of Duty franchise, aimed exclusively at the Chinese market. Call of Duty Online is being released in partnership with internet service provider Tencent; it will be free to download and play, although gamers will be able to purchase items such as weapons equipment and perks, through an in-game store.The game will feature standard modes and multiplayer options from the Call of Duty series, but will have its own campaign story, based around a series of "Spec Ops" missions.The publisher has long had plans to expand its multibillion dollar brand into China, which has a vast audience of keen gamers. According to figures released by China's ministry of culture last year, more than 160 million of the population regularly play online. However, as in South Korea, the most popular titles tend to be free-to-play multiplayer games, which can be accessed via a web browser and which offer micro-transactions to more committed participants. Call of Duty Online fits more comfortably into this market than the console-based iterations of the series."We think China is one of the most exciting places in the world for us to grow our business and to develop innovative new games," said Activision chief executive Bobby Kotick. "Tencent is an ideal partner for Activision to bring Call of Duty Online to China. Tencent has a terrific track record of customer-focused innovation and deep market knowledge that will be invaluable to Activision as we build great games for China. We have worked closely with Tencent to create a game with broad appeal for the Chinese market. We look forward to laying the foundation for a long-standing relationship with Tencent and to launching a new and unique experience for fans."This news comes at an interesting time for Activision Blizzard. There arereportsthat media and telecommunications giant Vivendi is looking to sell its 61% share in the games publisher, due to pressure from investors to stabilise the company and boost its share price. Video games are seen as a volatile business with some punditspredicting a crash for the industry, due to an over-reliance on "safe" familiar tropes.With a value of about $10bn however, well-known industry analyst Michael Pachter of Wedbush Securitiesarguesa buyer is unlikely to be found and Activision Blizzard would instead be spun off into a separate company. For now, though, Activision is focusing its commentary on the lucrative Call of Duty Online announcement.
Thelatest US smartphone market data from ComScore, which surveys a huge panel of consumers every month, is in.What does it show? (Mobile users:image here.)US smartphone users added by platform, by month, Sep 09-May 2012. Source: ComScore, analysed by The Guardian• Apparently, that last month's drop in the number of Android phones being sold was a blip; they've returned to normal, and are level-pegging with the iPhone in terms of sales.  (Mobile users:image here.)Historical data: number of US featurephone users shifting to smartphones. Source: ComScore; analysis: The Guardian• 46.9% of US mobile users now have a smartphone ("nearly 110m" of 234m, according to ComScore; I've taken that "nearly 110m" to be 109.8, as tweaking it up and down between 109.5 and 109.9 actually has little effect on successive numbers). On that basis, with a historical average of 3m smartphone users being added per month, the 50% point of 117m users is about two months away (more if sales slow down over summer, less if they speed up with price cuts). (Mobile users:image here.)US smartphone installed base by platform, Oct 2009-May 2012. Source: ComScore• Although RIM has lost significant share of the market over the past year (more than halved from 24.7% to 11.4%), the growth in the market means that its loss in installed base among consumers isn't quite as dramatic - down from 19m to 12.5m. OK, that's a 50% loss in installed base, but we knew things were bad. In fact, though, from month to month the ComScore data suggests it actually gained 50,000 users, or at least didn't lose any - which fits with RIM's statements at its quarterly earnings that it had seen the loss of users stemmed in the US.However, don't celebrate yet. That's only the second month in the past 12 that it hasn't lost installed base.• Android's share of users is staying pretty steady at around 50%-51%, while Apple is inching upwards, from 29% six months ago to 32% now. Both are probably benefiting from featurephone owners trading up.• Microsoft has stemmed its past losses in installed base, though it only put on 90,000 users in the past month according to the sample. (Remember: all this comes fromsampling, which is robust if you have a large enough sample to be statistically valid; ComScore's is, and the people it's polling are the same.) (Mobile users:image here.)US smartphone installed base, by platform, Oct 09 - May 2012. Source: ComScore• in the overall phone market, Samsung continues to tighten its grip on the featurephone and smartphone market. There's no breakdown by manufacturer, but since September 2009 it has gone from being the third-largest in installed base (behind Motorola, which had 58.3m of the 234m users, and LG, which had 50.8m) to the leader, with 60.1m of the 234m. Next closest is LG with 44.9m, and after that Apple with 35.1m. Motorola has fallen to fourth place, with 28.1m.The point where we start talking about the "next 50%", and when theywon't have a choice about buying a smartphone, will definitely arrive in the US by Christmas. The effects then will be interesting to see. Will theUS carriers keep subsidising Apple? Will Nokia be able to make a breakthrough with the Lumias? Is Android going to get past the 50% ceiling? It's all to play for.For another view of the same dataset (with graphs showing different aspects of the data) there's Horace Dediu's analysis at Asymco. "At 50% penetration the US smartphone market is not showing signs of saturation."
You have to credit Google for its transparency regarding the install base of different versions of its Android operating system. The company publishes regularly-updated distribution figures, despite the fact that they fuel the debate around Android fragmentation.Thelatest numbers are out, covering Android devices that have accessed the Google Play store in the  14-day period ending on 2 July 2012.They reveal that Android 4.x Ice Cream Sandwich is now on 10.9% of these Android devices, up from 7.1% at the start of June. The tablet-focused Android 3.x Honeycomb has a 2.6% share (down from 2.7%), while Android 2.3.x Gingerbread remains installed on 64% of devices (down from 65%).Android 2.2 Froyo still has a 17.3% share – and remember, this is active devices in use – while even Android 2.1 Eclair accounts for 4.7%.Percentage of devices accessing Google Play (formerly Android Market) over time, by OS. Source: Google, Wayback Machine.(Charles Arthur adds: the graph shows, even if the numbers don't immediately, that Gingerbread has peaked - falling from 65% to 64% in a month. That probably doesn't mean fewer devices running Gingerbread, as the total of Android devices continues to climb by a million or so a day. Instead, it probably indicates rapid sales of newer devices running Ice Cream Sandwich.)The dilemma for developers is clear: take advantage of whizzy features added in Ice Cream Sandwich – announced back in October 2011, remember – means cutting your target to just over one in 10 Android users.The flipside of that, of course, is that this is still a lot of people. Google has activated 400m Android devices so far, although that's not the same as saying it has 400m active Android users right now – ruling out an easy 43.6m Ice Cream Sandwich devices calculation. But ICS isn't a tiny niche.Even so, the challenge for Google is how to speed up the rate at which new versions of Android make their way onto handsets, with operators and handset makers traditionally seen as the bottlenecks.Android 4.1 Jelly Bean,unveiled at Google's I/O conferencein June 2012, represents Google's attempt to tackle this challenge, with its new Android Platform Development Kit (PDK), which was also announced at I/O.It's just been made available to hardware developers – smartphone and tablet makers, but also chipset firms – for Jelly Bean. In the future, though, they'll get PDKs for each Android version two or three months before its official release.The idea: a smoother and faster rollout, with less device owners left waiting for the update (or, as is often the case, left waiting for mere news of when or whether they'll be getting the update).App developers keen to jump on the latest Android features hope the PDK scheme will bear fruit. Sceptics will point to a previous initiative – the Android Update Alliance –announced at I/O 2011with the aim of guaranteeing that new devices would get every new version of Android for at least 18 months after their initial release.Operators and handset makers seemed to forget about it immediately, while Google hasn't mentioned it since, either.An optimistic view of the new PDK initiative, though, is that its early access may be what handset makers need in order to deliver on the Android Update Alliance guarantee. Time will tell.
