Wednesday night sees the2011 GAME British Academy Video Games Awards, with developers competing in 16 categories, involving some of the biggest entertainment brands in the world.But while there are plenty of astonishing titles on the list, there are two key question marks. The nominations are dominated by a handful of core shooter and action franchises, and of the 40-or-so games up for recognition, only a fraction were developed in the UK. Why?To find out, I spoke to two members of the Bafta video games committee: the chairman, Ray Maguire, head of Sony Computer Entertainment UK, and the deputy chair, Ian Livingstone, life president of Square Enix. We talked about the health of the industry, where the interesting ideas are coming from and what can be done to get Britain moving back up the international games development table. Here is the first part of our discussion.How is the video game industry faring at the moment? 2010 seemed to be a difficult year, with several major publishers showing losses and both ChartTrack and the NPD Group reporting falling revenues.Ray Maguire:ChartTrack measures the EPOS data out of retail stores, which last year was reported to be 15% down on the year before. But the online side of the business is not reflected in that number. So actually, the industry as a whole is growing.At Sony, I can see that the online side is quite dynamic. We had a good year anyway on the retail side, but without a doubt, there's this transition into a blended model of retail and online. We have to start thinking about our industry as a growing and dynamic marketplace which has core gamers at the centre and then other people, younger and older, in the casual area – the people who are more into digital 'snacking' content. It appears on the outside that there's a decline – and there is on the retail side – but it's more than covered by the expansion of the online side of the business. So the industry is in good health in terms of revenue and especially in terms of audience reach. It's never been bigger.Is it the same story from a publisher standpoint?Ian Livingstone:If you read the headlines you'll think that the industry is in decline, but that's absolutely not the case. It represents $50bn a year in software sales alone, and it's estimated to be $90bn by 2015. The industry is at a crossroads, moving from boxed products sold at retail, to online services, and all the substantial growth is coming in the online space. There are some extraordinary stories out there: the rise of a company likeZynga– it didn't exist three years ago, then it released Farmville and had 80 million people playing. They launched Cityville on December 1 2010 and within 44 days they had 100 million monthly active users. We've seen 50 million downloads ofAngry Birds, there are 12 million people playingWorld of Warcraft, 35 million people have registered forMoshi Monsters…All of the opportunities, growth and investment is happening online, and certainly, traditional publishers have struggled in moving their super tanker of skills toward the new online world. They're going to have to do that through acquisition or via some radical organic growth internally. If you look at games that are doing really well at the moment, like FIFA 11 or Call of Duty, they've got significant online and multiplayer components. It's get online or get out.RM:Our business is a blend now. You still have to put some very large chunks of data into the market place – the Gran Turismo 5 disc is something like 40GB of content, which would be almost impossible to download. But then of course, your secondary revenue – where you make the money – is selling DLC afterwards. As the networks get better, there will be a higher percentage of download to retail, but at the moment [boxed games] are a very efficient way of getting a lot of data to the consumer. However, at the same time we have thePlayStation Minis, which are download-only content. That's the transition we're talking about, making sure we have product not only for hardcore gamers, but also the massive casual marketplace.IL:Clearly, console games still lead the way. They're interactive cinema with huge production values and graphical fidelity that's unmatched by casual titles. And they have amazing brand value: using Black Ops as an example, Activision will sell 20 million copies at 50 dollars a pop – that's a billion dollar franchise! That's hard to replicate in any other entertainment industry, with the exception of movies like Avatar. But it does mean there's a polarisation in traditional console gaming – everyone is buying the same titles, the best in class, and spending the rest of their gaming time snacking via whichever social media device they prefer.So we're heading toward something like the Hollywood movie industry, which is now being sustained by mega-budget blockbusters at one end and small indie titles at the other, with very little going on in between. Is that the case?RM:Yes, without a doubt. Consumers have only got so much time and money, so rather than buying four massive 40-hour games, they might buy one or two of those now and fill up with snacking content. Look at the retail model now: there's price erosion in the market place – a huge amount of aggressive pricing – so it has become much more of a challenge for stores. Consequently, the range is being reduced, and the games being eliminated will be the ones that don't rate highly on Metacritic. But then, a lot of these are B-type games that perhaps shouldn't be there in the first place...IL:There's also the issue on choice and price. Games that are delivered via physical media have a heavier cost attachment to them. You can buy one game on a console or get 40 on an iPhone for the same price. There's a lot of choice for the consumer now.But not everything in the middleground is a game that's aspired to blockbuster status but somehow failed. There are plenty of niche titles, that are amazing, buy can't and don't aim to compete against Call of Duty. I'm thinking, say, Vanquish, Mirror's Edge or Demon's Souls. What happens to those games now?RM:I think it's probably true that most studios are now quicker to cancel stuff if it's not living up to expectations in the green light process – the costs are so big. But, actually, the technology inside today's consoles means that we have the ability to tell stories in a better way, a much more graphic way, allowing us to get deeper into the narrative and become more creative in the way we put an experience in front of a consumer. In the case of Heavy Rain, that's an entirely narrative-driven game – when I used to work for Sega, I was introducing games like Golden Axe on the Mega Drive, narrative wasn't even part ofthatconversation! But now we have the technology, we're opening up new avenues of creativity.But then could Heavy Rain have been made without Sony's close firstparty support?RM:Thereisa funding issue. We as a platform holder have a duty to push the boundaries, we will gamble on using technology and exploring different experiences, because someone has to. But if you're a multiplatform publisher and selling to the marketplace that those platforms have created, then it's purely a commercial decision.Is Sony still planning to gamble on offbeat projects, with the market as it is in 2011?RM:Absolutely – it's fundamental to us.And how about Square Enix? Is it difficult to competeandthink about new IP?IL:Clearly, you need large capital reserves to invest in big Triple A pillar titles, and you're going to see a lot more consolidation in the industry going forward. That's why it made sense for Square Enix to acquire Eidos – it gives them a global publishing and development company.But at the moment there seem to be few safe bets. Activision has just canned Guitar Hero, once one of the biggest brands in the industry. Do you think we'll see more of this going on in the near-future?IL:Well, the market dictates these things – no one does it out of choice. But yes, I think we will see more of it. And also, if a game's not ready, it's not going to be just shoved out of the door – those days are over. With people's knowledge of games through the internet and word of mouth, it'll be destroyed. Instead, it's going to be delayed to make it the game it should be, to realise its full potential. But clearly, this means we're going to concentrate on fewer titles rather than having a broad portfolio as we've done in the past.The games receiving most nominations at the Bafta awards this year are the big 'core' releases: Halo, Call of Duty, Assassin's Creed, Battlefield: Bad Company... Is that a concern? Does it say the industry hasn't evolved?RM:You have to look at each of those games and ask, how have they developed? Look at some of the larger games: Call of Duty has more depth now than it's ever had in the past. All these games are progressing. In terms of creativity, this year we have had more than I've ever seen in the industry. Heavy Rain branches off into new areas, where your judgement actually steers the storyline – developers could apply that to any story. We could see the start off a new genre.Also, look at the film world and how transmedia conversations have started in a big way. The guys atPower to the Pixelput on a programme of events every year and you see how you can start blending film with ARGs… The same thing is happening within our own industry – people are making smaller games, homebrew stuff, all that is happening agan...But while the film industry is taking games seriously, the wider media doesn't seem to be...IL:There's a perception problem with games – we've always been seen as the unruly step-child of the creative industries. The media has tended to concentrate on violent games or on the idea that games are addictive, and that has a knock-on effect. Teachers and parents don't see games as a viable career options; politicians distance themselves for fear of rabid headlines in the popular press; and the investment community has not backed the industry like it should have done.Video game design plays to the strengths of the UK – we're brilliant at creativity and we're brilliant at high technology. With manufacturing and the financial services in turmoil, what better industry for the digital economy can you ask for than games? It ticks all the boxes: it's IP creating, it's knowledge-based, it's green, it's broadband-enabled... People need to understand what we're offering. 70% of the UK population play games and if you look at most of the content, less than 5% is 18 rated, which means that 95% of the content is suitable for family entertainment. Games have moved out of the bedroom as a single-player 'nerdy' pastime and into the living room as a social experience. This is having an effect on our culture. Games are as important, socially, culturally and economically as any other entertainment media.So why aren't we seeing games on the Culture Show?RM:I think that's a discussion to be had with the media channels! But the experience of gaming is personal and it's difficult to replicate that kind of emotional connection via TV. It has also been difficult to create news stories around the industry that capture the public's imagination. With movies, half the attention is about the star, not about their performance, we don't have that within our industry.IL:Our heroes are virtual!RM:If you want to sell a newspaper, bad news is better. I think we'll always have an issue with this, but as we start to tell more involving stories, which is what's happening right now, perhaps things will change.IL:Gamesarean artform! We get an emotional response out of people who play them. Happiness, sadness, fear – we can play with those emotions. And on a positive level, games teach you about solving problems, about intuitivity, choice and consequence, about social engagement, using a computer, even dexterity – these never get featured in the press.But do you feel that now, games are certainly understood within Bafta?RM:It's been a transition. We've only been here for seven years, but if you look at it from a board perspective, there are people around the table who are as passionate about games as they are about film and TV. We have a lot of work to do – the awards have grown in importance over the last three or four years and it took us some time before we got the right presenter. Dara is a fantastic host because he is a games lover – he was the first one not to go down the stereotypical media approach of, well, let's knock gaming. That's lifted the whole awards up. And you start to get a feeling that people are proud to be in the industry, because they know they are not just entertaining people, they are enriching people's lives. Well, if that's not culture, I don't know what is.You can read my accompanying piece on the Bafta awards and the UK industry from today's Media Guardianhere. Also, come back tomorrow for the conclusion of this interview, where Ray Maguire mentions the words, 'PlayStation 4'!You'll be able to watch the whole ceremony online and live viathe Bafta site.
A half-empty ballroom at the Hilton Hotel was the venue for a discussion about the estimated 30 million working Americans who can't make their pay cheques last to the end of the month. "The Future of Consumer Lending" paired a panel of entrepreneurs with chair Paul Leonard, an advocate for responsible lending. The result was an hour that revealed shocking statistics about levels of personal debt among working Americans, if not a sense that a solution is around the corner.The most interesting of the panelists was Douglas Merrill, a former chief information officer at Google and Rand Corporation staffer who is now in the business of providing small, "friendly" loans to individuals through his start-up ZestCash. His rhetoric about the social injustices endured by many of his clients – "My borrowers aren't trying to buy flat-screen TVs, they're trying to eat" – was matched by standard-issue Cupertino, California, zeal regarding the power of data and the efficacy of "clear" markets.Also on the panel were Ryan Gilbert of BillFloat – a company that pays bills directly for clients who then pay it back – and Dana Mauriello, the founder of ProFounder, which is in the slightly different space of crowdsourcing funding for local, small businesses. Each displayed a degree of evangelism about the work they were doing but weren't shy of declaring that they were in business for profit.As for what was absent from the event, two things stood out: 1) an idea of how much the application of data was really changing the nature of loans to high-risk – that is, broke – customers (Merrill has an algorithm that takes in 150 different criteria, but he wasn't saying which); 2) the sense that proper old-school advocate Leonard, while happy to share a panel with the entrepreneurs, was willing to endorse any of them.
Seth Priebatsch unleashed 180 seconds of organised chaos on SXSW Interactive on Saturday, turning the 4,000-strong audience into a giant trading pit. The charismatic, high-speed founder of business location tool SCVNGR wanted to show how game dynamics – in this case based on the classic card game Pit – can help solve real problems, giving everyone in the audience a coloured card to trade as a metaphor for organising action around climate change. It's all part of his vision for the next generation of the web, one he describes as "the game layer".The card-trading game was, he admitted, a bit of a gamble – he even had an alternative "consolation on your failure" slide lined up just in case. He was only about 60% sure it would work on this scale, but the room was buzzing with energy. "Climate change is a complex problem with no central lever, and with unequal distribution of resources. But I was confident in those game mechanics, that it would be exhilarating and that we could analyse the dynamics to show what had happened. If we can tie all that back into what we do, then even if we can't tackle problems as big as global warming, we can make them more manageable."SXSW Interactive keynotes are notoriously pressurised, with big audiences, big expectations and a high bar; recent keynotes have included interviews with Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg and Twitter co-founder Evan Williams – both of which saw interviewers Sarah Lacy and Umair Haque being subsequently slated. That Priebatsch was singled out for his moment of glory shows not only the popularity of both location-based services and the mainstreaming of games, but also confidence in the 22-year-old to hold the attention of an expert 4,000-strong audience for an hour.SCVNGR, which until recently had a low profile compared with the less commercially focused Foursquare and Gowalla, claims to be enjoying something of a boom. The service reached the milestone of 1 million users in late February, is about to be included as a native app on 4G Sprint Android handsets and, on the back of a $15m funding round in January, has announced its first major new project. LevelUp will see SCVNGR offer local businesses in Boston and Philadelphia a tiered loyalty scheme for customers that incentivises them to keep coming back to get better discount deals at shops, restaurants and local businesses. "The goal is to take the level-up game mechanic and implement it in the real world. One problem of the daily deals space is that it creates a local, social deal but doesn't get users to come back. And though there are 500 Groupon knockoffs in the daily deals space, no one is talking about loyalty."While the explosion of daily deals sites has created some eyewatering valuations in a very short space of time – Groupon stands at around $15bn compared with SCVNGR and Foursquare's $100m valuations, said Priebatsch - SCVNGR's careful, analytical and long-term approach could start to give those sites some real competition. "At the moment, only 4% of internet consumers use location-based services," said Priebatsch. "We've made a commitment to these research pilots to help move location-based services to the mainstream, an open way of inviting people back and making that business a more persistent part of their life. It's not just about checking in – we want them to level up into regulars."We are going to give them some nightmares, for sure. Groupon and Livingsocial are not going to be worried in the short term about anything we do because they are so big and making so much money. But they are not doing a good job because it's not enough to do 'one and done-ers'." This, said Priebatsch, is where the "superior implementation" of location-based services has such massive potential, because once the hype of daily deals sites dies down, businesses will start to question giving away high margins in discounts to customers who don't come back. "We haven't done it in a way that is mainstream yet, but as soon as we do they will have a lot to worry about."Seth Priebatsch: 'I’ve never felt threatened by Facebook'. Photograph: Bloomberg via Getty ImagesThat SCVNGR is pushing into one of the web's most lucrative areas, the daily deals space, says much of its ambitions. Priebatsch is unashamedly focused on applying his expertise and ambition to what he described as this "hybrid space" between location services, deals, local businesses and more pure forms of gaming. But referencing influential games designers Jane McGonigal and Jesse Schell in his keynote, he acknowledged that he has felt some push-back from more purist members of the games community over whether SCVNGR can really be described as a games firm."We're pushing the limits of what a game is, and they think I'm beyond this limit. There will always be purists but we've never got that push-back from businesses or consumers. Game dynamics are too powerful to leave bottled up in games." Priebatsch is also determinedly hands-on. Though games such as McGonigal's World Without Oil and CryptoZoo (which she designed for the American Heart Association) have a higher purpose, he seems to want to get his hands dirty with more tangible, business-facing projects. That impulse to see a result has led to a string of experimental campaigns, including a recent project with fast food chain Buffalo Wild Wings that garnered up 33,000 new users and saw 30% of them come back within seven days. The trick was setting challenges for users based around a basketball theme, so gamers had to take photos of themselves with players or complete tasks for a chance to win tickets to games as well as discounts at the restaurant."Crack the science of loyalty at scale for local business and that becomes something that can add a huge amount of value to an important sector of our economy. I like tackling problems that I can see making an impact on real people and real businesses immediately. We might not be purists, but we're a long way from being one of the Enrons of the world."His mantra is "instilling a sense of engagement between a business or brand and a person". That may seem a rather commercial message for the artsy SXSW crowd, but his objectives seem more high-minded than many of the increasingly marketing-focused sessions at SXSW. As he noted, with a marketing spend of close to $60m this year, some of the festival's technology grassroots seem to have been taken over by marketers.Priebatsch likes to refer to himself as a "proud Princeton dropout", displaying a virtual badge of geek pride for leaving his engineering degree after just a year so that he could pursue SCVNGR. "We are all naturally selfish, so if there is this great tech innovation from the social layer to the game layer, people want to do 'what can it do for me?'. School is the perfect ecosystem for something like that, for engagement – could you fix schools using game mechanics?"If the third era of the web is to be defined by what Priebatsch describes as the game layer, how comprehensive can that layer really be? Last year's EpicWin iPhone app showed how points and incentives can be tied to dull daily chores, but don't more commercial attempts to "gameify" the everyday risk adding nothing but a superficial layer of dynamics? Don't we risk building an industry that reduces friendship to the accumulation of points? "I don't use 'gameification' to describe the things SCVNGR does or the things we're trying to do because it describes this activity of bolting on game mechanics, whereas we like to think of building a new framework from the ground up where game mechanics are an integral part of the process," said Priebatsch. "If you're selling dog food, you can't just add game mechanics. We want to reclaim the term 'gameification' to mean something grander than just sprinkling something on top."Both Groupon and Foursquare are rivals. But surely Facebook, with its recent moves into check-ins and local business deals, must also present some intimidating competition? Priebatsch dismisses much of what Facebook has done in the local business deals space as "one-dimensional"; even its launch deal offering 10,000 pairs of jeans to Gap customers was just the result of both companies' top brass talking, he says. That's not a sustainable way of building the service, Priebatsch argued – and he claimed SCVNGR can back that up with research into the longevity of Facebook Deals customers. "I've never felt threatened by Facebook. The frightening thing would be if they had got people to keep checking into Gap regularly. Did that happen? No, because the experience is not that rich or engaging," he said. "But Facebook has the most to lose because it has a history of altering its privacy policies and not doing the most to protect the privacy of its users."If Facebook lacks "the science of loyalty" and the absolute trust of its users, doesn't it make up for that in scale? "It will pass, said Priebatsch. "Facebook will be like Google, Microsoft and IBM before them – they've been dominant for maybe a year and I'd give them maybe four more years."That's a shift, he said, that is inevitable – but it is clear from Priebatsch's raw ambition and tenacity that when Facebook's reign is over, that's right where he wants SCVNGR to be. "Shift happens! I'm working like hell to make that shift happen and be on the right side of it."
The SXSW festival in Austin has become something of a pilgrimage for social and/or location-based startups, hoping to follow in the footsteps of Twitter and Foursquare in using the event as a launchpad for success.At the same time, the ease with which developers can create location-based services by tying into datasets and APIs from Google, Facebook, Foursquare and others is driving a burst of activity around location and apps, principally around iPhone and Android.Here's a list of 20 apps that are part of this new wave of location innovation. All face the same three challenging questions:1How do they find an audience?2How do they make money?3If they're successful, how will they avoid being cannibalised by Facebook? Few have answers now, but this is nevertheless a snapshot of some of the more interesting ideas in the area.Ditto (iPhone)Rather than ask what you're doing right now,Dittoprompts you to update your plans for what you're about to do, and then get recommendations from friends for restaurants, films or attractions, hooking into Facebook's social graph.Yobongo (iPhone)Launching just in time for SXSW,Yobongois all about location-based messaging, promising to help its users "get started communicating with people around you". For now, it only works in New York, Austin and San Francisco though.Shadow Cities (iPhone)Location-based games are enjoying a second wind on iOS and Android, withShadow Citiesthe latest attempt to turn real-world cities into massively multiplayer games. Hugely popular in its native Finland, it's launching globally this year.Lonely Planet Audio Walking Tours (iPhone)Travel firm Lonely Planet recently launched fivewalking-tour appsbased on central London. Covering the West End, Covent Garden, the City, Spitalfields and the Southbank, they tie audio to location, plotting walks on Google Maps.Flowd (iPhone/Android/Nokia)Flowdis another Finnish startup whose app starts with Foursquare-style check-ins, but then wraps music features around them. Users can follow bands' updates and tips, while uploading photos from gigs and entering contests.StreetSpark (iPhone/Android)Location-based dating has some challenges to overcome – specifically concern about stalking – butStreetSparkis one of a clutch of apps looking to hook singles up spontaneously. Its social matching process aims to ensure they hit it off, too.Ask Around (iPhone)Ask.com started life as the Ask Jeeves search engine, but its latest spinoff is alocation-based conversation app. The emphasis is on questions and answers, with users able to tap into local knowledge when finding themselves somewhere unfamiliar.Screach (iPhone / Android)UK startupScreenReachrecently worked with Newcastle FC to allow fans at the club's stadium to vote for the man of the match using its Screach app. That's one use for Screach, but there are others – it can be used for coupons, content, voting and gaming.Situationist (iPhone)Situationistis less about meeting friends than it is about meeting strangers in surprising ways. Users choose from a selection of scenarios, from impromptu hugs to angry flashmobs, and then wait for other users to detect their presence and carry them out.My Star (iPhone)My Staris a collaboration between UK developer Mobile Pie and operator Orange. It's a social music game where players level up their character and jam with friends. The location aspect involves plastering virtual flyers in real-world locations.View (iPhone)Like Yobongo,Viewis an app making its debut at SXSW that currently only works in New York, San Francisco and Austin. Its focus is on discovering information and tips about nearby venues, tapping into the Foursquare and Google Places APIs.Love Clean London (iPhone/Android/BlackBerry/Windows Phone 7)Even London Mayor Boris Johnson has his finger in the apps pie, having announced this week a new initiative calledLove Clean London. Its app aims to encourage citizen activism, as people report graffiti and other "environmental crimes" by uploading photos.Short Stack App (iPhone)Australian pop-punk bandShort Stackare one of the first artists with their own social location app on iPhone. It lets fans check in to gigs Foursquare-style to earn points as part of the app's loyalty programme, which can then be exchanged for rewards.payasUgym (iPhone)The name says it all:payasUgymis all about buying one-off e-passes to use gyms, currently across London. Its iPhone app takes the process mobile, allowing users to search for local gyms on a map, and then buy an e-pass there and then to use them.Localmind (iPhone)Another startup hoping to make a splash at SXSW this year by splicing location with questions and answers. WithLocalmindusers can see who is checked in to a specific venue via Foursquare, Facebook Places or Gowalla, and send them a question – with a points system to reward answers.Broadcastr (iPhone/Android)Broadcastrstyles itself as providing "location-award audio and storytelling", and is making its debut at – you guessed it – SXSW. It lets people record audio clips and associate them to locations, for others to tune into when using the app in that spot.RedRover (iPhone)RedRovertakes a more niche spin on the idea of a location-based social network, focusing purely on parents. With a slogan of "make playdates on the fly", it helps groups of friends with children to arrange impromptu meet-ups, while finding child-safe locations.Heyo (iPhone/Android)Heyodoesn't revolve around locations, but around events – parties, meetups, sports and so on. It ties in with Facebook and Twitter to provide calendar notifications. There is a location aspect though, with the app identifying friends' events in the user's vicinity.Unsocial (iPhone/Android)A lot of social location apps put their emphasis on partying, but there's arguably as great a need for business-focused apps too.Unsocialties into LinkedIn to help people find relevant work contacts at events, such as conferences, including messaging features.Hot Spots @ SXSW (iPhone/Windows Phone 7)PR group Waggener Edstrom has its ownSXSW appthat aims to pinpoint the most popular events by crunching data from Foursquare check-ins. This idea of aggregating and analysing data from the bigger social location services is likely to fuel more apps in 2011.That's our list of 20, now tell us what we've missed. What innovative and interesting location apps have you seen that you think have a shot at building a business? Which of the ones above do you think have legs? Join the debate by posting your thoughts.
No one picks up an RPG for instant gratification, but Dragon Age 2 really takes its time to get going. The sword-and-sorcery heavy game is framed as a story-within-a-story, as secondary characters try to piece together the history of the hero. That's your character, Hawke – another meticulously customisable BioWare lead who can be created using the gender, attributes, haircut and cheekbones your quest-loving heart desires. (Although you only get to play as one race this time, a trade-off for the full voicing acting of the lead character.) It's a clear nod to the sagas and epics that inspire the Dragon Age world. The only problem is, it means the game spends the early stages holding you at arm's length when what you really want to do is run straight into the murky brown olde worlde and start swishing your blade around.The good news is that once the action warms up, you'll be thoroughly and happily involved in your heroic deeds. The plot puts you back in the fantastical land of Thedas, under attack from the evil darkspawn. With your homeland of Ferelden overrun by the blight, you have to travel to the city state of Kirkwald to seek sanctuary, do a bunch of quests, and ultimately realise your shining heroic destiny –a destiny that, for all the game's flashback conceit, is partially invented as you play, with your choices going to inform the kind of hero your Hawke will become.The map comes in two flavours: day or night, depending on which you choose to access, with the former offering a lot of markets for trading and inventory-tweaking, and the latter a lot of ruffians for hacking down. You can thrash through the main quest if you want to, but in practice, the tug of the sidequests is too strong. You get an intoxicating sense of freedom from pottering about, rinsing NPCs for information and picking the adventures you'd like to have. But just as importantly, Dragon Age 2 engenders a sense of responsibility that draws you deeper into the story. That's a big deal when you consider just how uninviting the world is in some ways.For one thing, it's not pretty. It's functional, but there are no LOTR-esque vistas to match the Tolkien-cribbing plot, and you won't see anything as brain-frazzling gorgeous as the spacescapes of sister title Mass Effect 2. Instead, it's earth tones, janky hair textures and pop-up baddies all the way. (Also – and this is just a personal thing – not/ every/ female character needs to have breasts the size of her head. Live a little, BioWare. Embrace the B cup.) And the dialogue, while mostly well-judged, clunks into mundanity every once in a while – there were a few times when I hit the "sassy remark" option, waited for Hawke to oblige, and then sank despairingly into the sofa as my character smirked out something not that clever at all.But the thing about choosing what you say is that, even if the words that come out aren't perfect, they're still yours. And tending your relationships with your family and your party becomes critically important as you find your way with the game. I wanted to have a little hug with someone after my actions scored me a bit of affection from my sister. "Look," I thought to myself, emotionally, "I made her /love/ me." The other major thing it gets right is the combat: chunky feeling, with hugely detailed but highly accessible skill trees and tactics menus to help you get the most out of each team member. Lopping chunks off the darkspawn feels good.And with those two elements in place, everything else begins to fit too. The world-in-peril plot, which could have seemed desultory, becomes genuinely urgent: dun-coloured it may be, but this is a universe worth saving. Dragon Age 2 has its flaws, but none of them are big enough to obscure the vast, absorbing whole of the game. This Hawke the slayer is definitely not rubbish.• Game reviewed on PS3
It's Monday, Greg is away and as I'm more meddling and prescriptive here are five possible chat topics!Sony Xperia Play phone to hit UK on March 31It's going to be the company's biggest ever UK launch apparently.Nintendo 3DS price warMorrisons is offering it at £187 to customers who pre-order.Games developers soup up titles for iPad 2They're enjoying the extra-fast processor apparently.Activision studios say publisher isn't "heavy-handed" with themAlthough this was during a talk at Pax East in which they were interviewed by... Activision's own social media manager...New Dwarf Fortress download availableComplete with crucial 'made dwarves get crutches properly' fix!Now chat!
On Wednesday, Bafta holds its annual video game awards, allowing people in the industry to taste the sort of glitz, glamour and mutual back-slapping that those in the movie and TV businesses enjoy on a more regular basis. Hosted by comedian and keen gamer Dara O'Briain, it's a big deal for an entertainment medium that often struggles to gain positive mainstream attention.Yet while big-budget blockbusters such as Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood and Call of Duty: Black Ops (which has so far earned more than $1bn for its publisher Activision) are doubtless set to be celebrated on the night, the  awards mask a difficult time for the industry. Many major publishers recorded losses in the final quarter of 2010, with leaders Activision losing $233m and Electronic Arts down $322m. Revenues are down too: the NPD Group estimated US video game software and hardware sales at $18.58bn in 2010, down 6% from the previous year. In the UK, Chart-Track put retail sales of hardware and software at £2.98bn, down from £3.31bn in 2009.Nevertheless, Ray Maguire, the chairman of Bafta's games committee and head of Sony Computer Entertainment UK, says these statistics do not represent the whole picture. "The online side of the business is not reflected in the figures," argues Maguire, who points out that Chart-Track data only refers to retail sales of boxed goods. "Although the headlines all talked about a decline, actually the industry as a whole is growing – it is in good health in terms of revenue, and especially in terms of audience reach. It's never been bigger."Ian Livingstone, the life president of global games publisher Square Enix, points to the sucess of Facebook games, focusing on Farmville owner Zynga. "They have 80 million people playing Farmville," he says, "then they launched Cityville on December 1 2010 and within 44 days had 100 million monthly active users. We've seen 50m downloads of Angry Birds, there are 12 million people playing World of Warcraft, 35 million registered for Moshi Monsters."Yet whatever the global figures indicate, the UK industry is struggling. Once a leader in game development, Britain is slipping down the international league table. Canada, meanwhile, is offering generous tax credits to technology firms and excellent university courses in games programming. And developers in China and South Korea have benefited from an explosion in the popularity of online multiplayer games.In the UK, in contrast, it is expensive to make games – wages are comparatively high and the government has refused to offer tax incentives –  and there is a growing skills shortage. Of the universities offering games-related courses only nine out of 141 are accredited by Skillset, the industry body focused on skills and training for the creative industries; many of the rest Livingstone dismisses as little more than lightweight media studies degrees rebranded to attract game fans.In a recent report on the British creative industries, published by Nesta and co-written by Livingstone, the problems were traced back to schools. "Many years ago the BBC Micro was the cornerstone of computing in the classroom, but since then the emphasis on programming has disappeared," he says. "ICT classes for children means learning Microsoft applications, Word, Excel, Powerpoint – that doesn' t give them the creative computing skills for high-tech industries."This reluctance to introduce gaming in schools is partly down to a long-running image problem. "We've always been seen as the unruly stepchild of the creative industries," Livingstone says. "The media has tended to concentrate on violent games or on the idea of addiction, and that has a knock-on effect for the industry. Teachers and parents don't see games as a viable career option, politicians distance themselves for fear of rabid headlines."This is an area where the involvement of Bafta could help. "One of the main things we're trying to do at Bafta is show that games are equal to film and television," says its head of communications, Thea Cole. "There is so much benefit to the culture they have developed, and there' s also a blurring of lines between different media now. If we can elevate the status of games, hopefully the effect is that they're taken more seriously."Bafta is also taking its message on the road. It holds regular video game discussion and demo events, and runs an annual Young Game Designers competition.But much of the responsibility for improving the industry's image is down to the games themselves. A browse through the Bafta nominations list reveals lots of titles such as Call of Duty and Battlefield: Bad Company 2, which appeal to young males. The worry is that, as the cost of development rises, the industry is becoming less  daring and more like today's Hollywood, cancelling original projects and concentrating on "surefire" triple-A prospects, which usually means sequels and shooters.Unsurprisingly, Maguire rejects this. "As a platform holder, we have a duty to push the boundaries – we will take gambles on different experiences. Console technology has given us the ability to tell stories in a better, deeper way. In our own case with Heavy Rain, that's a narrative-driven game – we're opening up new avenues of creativity."Innovative products are now also emerging from the growing indie sector. Thanks to broadband internet and digital distribution, small studios can find a worldwide audience. A key example has been Minecraft, an offbeat construction game, created by lone coder Markus Persson, which has been downloaded over a million times. But the awards event itself – as a spectacle worth watching – has a vital role in attracting mainstream interest. Previous attempts to broadcast the proceedings have been flawed, presented by hip young things who knew nothing about gaming. "Dara O'Briain was the first to go, 'actually, games are great'," says Maguire. "That's lifted the whole awards up." And after last year, the industry certainly needs a good night.
It was a speech delivered last autumn by David Cameron, setting out his vision for a "Silicon Roundabout" in Shoreditch, east London, that first gave ammunition to the conspiracy theorists."The founders of Google have said they could never have started their company in Britain," the prime minister told his audience of thrusting internet entrepreneurs."The service they provide depends on taking a snapshot of all the content on the internet at any one time and they feel our copyright system is not as friendly to this sort of innovation as it is in the United States," he added.The announcement that followed, of a wholesale review of the UK's intellectual property (IP) laws, was greeted with unalloyed delight at Google's California HQ – and left the music industry, ravaged by web piracy, with that all too familiar sinking feeling.Thereview into "Intellectual Property and growth", chaired by Ian Hargreaves, the professor of digital economy at Cardiff University and a former editor of the Independent, won't just impact on the ability of musicians to be rewarded for the work they have created.The outcome could affect publishers, film companies, designers, medical researchers and every teenager who has digitally altered a picture and posted it on Facebook or created a witty YouTube mash-up.The review panel, due to report to Vince Cable and George Osborne next month, will identify the "barriers to new internet-based business models" raised by the "costs of obtaining permissions from existing rights-holders". There's no shortage of examples of these barriers to innovation.Should a new, web-based radio station, for instance, be prevented from streaming a playlist of music by having to track down and sign individual licensing deals for every track? If a video whizzkid can create an entirely new work by editing The King's Speech into a three-minute YouTube clip in which Colin Firth is made to lip-synch to Lady Gaga, should such a talent be immediately crushed to dust by corporate lawyers?But most significantly for the conspiracy theorists, should a $190bn giant like Google, which has been sued by publishers over the mass copying of copyright-protected works, be allowed a change in the law to make it easier for its search engine to hoover up other people's content?Google has its claws in Cameron, say the critics. Rachel Whetstone, Google's European head of communications, is married toSteve Hilton, the prime minister's director of strategy.And the prime minister's declaration that he wanted to see a US-style relaxation of IP laws, creating a "fair use" exemption – giving space for startups to copy and create innovative products, sourced from material which might be copyright-protected – was top of Google's legislative wishlist.But by promising a new copyright regime "fit for the internet age", to boost the growth-led recovery he is pinning his electoral hopes upon, the prime minister even appeared to have pre-judged the outcome of the Hargreaves review."I was a Cameron supporter but he has been deceived by the people whispering in his ear," saysMike Batt, the songwriter, producer and founder ofDramatico, Katie Melua's record label."It's complete bollocks. The reason Google started up in Silicon Valley is because they have banks that understand the entrepreneurial thinking behind startups. We don't."Companies such as Google want to "eat the lunch" of the people who actually create popular works, says Batt, the deputy chairman of the BPI, the record industry trade body. "The review terms of reference are completely biased towards Google, the ISPs and anyone who wants to set up an internet company. Weakening copyright won't create a Silicon Valley here. It will hit the small music publishing and film outfits that create value for the economy by producing content."Feargal Sharkey, the chief executive of UK Music, argues that under the current copyright law, legal music download "startups" are flourishing, with 72 competing sites generating £350m in sales last year. He warns of the danger of taking "50,000 jobs from the music industry to create 20,000 in technology".Those fears are misplaced, insists Sarah Hunter, Google's head of UK public policy and a former Downing Street adviser to Tony Blair on the creative industries. "None of us are in the business of stifling great content online but we do think copyright law needs fixing in everyone's interest," she says.Google would not have set up in the UK, argues Hunter, because the lack of a "fair use" provision here meant that the founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, couldn't be sure that its search engine product would be legal. "There is a fair amount of case law to give you that certainty in the US but the copyright laws here are unclear about the extent to which exemptions do exist," she says.Entrepreneurs would reject Britain and take great ideas elsewhere, adds Hunter, who says Google wants a change in law to create a "climate for innovation" for new technology companies, not to undermine the creative industries.Yet that legal certainty identified across the Atlantic didn't prevent Google from being embroiled in a costly legal battle with the US publishing industry over Google Books' unlicensed copying of authors' works, in its effort to make "all of the knowledge contained within the world's books searchable online".The record industry has accused Google Search of directing fans to illegal "bit torrent" sites. But Hunter believes there can be a virtuous circle in which "Google enhances the value of rights-holders' websites because more people see their products and they can monetise those eyeballs".Take evidenceThe job of Hargreaves's panel, which has visited Silicon Valley to take evidence, is complicated by the number of competing interests among the180 submissionsit has received.The British Library wants stronger collective management of rights as seen in Scandinavia to so that it can embark on a mass digitisation of books and audiovisual recordings that are no longer commercially available – to unlock material that hasn't seen the light of day for a century.The speed of medical research could be enhanced by the ability to "format shift" computer programs from disks to files, and to incorporate gobbets of information from thousands of web sources without fear of infringement. Then there isMixcloud, the music internet radio startup, which told Hargreaves that it could thrive if there was just a single licence it could sign up to for permission to stream its playlist of reggae dancehall, jazz and electronica.Hargreaves warns that the status quo is not an option. "I don't think the current system is serving content creators as well as it should," he says. "For most of my working life, I have been employed in the creative industries. There are times when some change is necessary, in order to generate jobs for tomorrow. This is such a time."He is only too aware that his review follows the2006 Gowers Report on Intellectual Propertyand the2010 Digital Economy Act, now "frozen" as arguments over the penalties for repeat filesharers continue. Whatever settlement Hargreaves presents must stand the test of time and technological change, as he predicts that we are "only one-quarter of the way into the digital revolution".The Hargreaves inquiry could create a fair use review panel to rule over test cases, without the requirement for expensive lawyers.Pearson, the publishing company that owns the Financial Times and Penguin, has proposed the creation of an online global rights registry that startup companies could use to discover what they are able to do legally with someone else's publication, film or piece of music and make licence payments accordingly.The review is also expected to tidy up the anomaly of "format shifting" by making it legal to "rip" purchased CDs through computers and on to MP3 players.Hargreaves admits that Cameron "by design set up a Google versus others" contest in his Shoreditch speech last November. When asked if he could guarantee that there would be a net economic gain from any weakening of copyright law he might propose, he quotes Clint Eastwood: "If you want a guarantee, buy a toaster."He has, however, promised the music industry that he is not "about to tear up the whole copyright book". So is Hargreaves willing to disappoint Cameron, who is demanding a solution that will "encourage the sort of creative innovation that exists in America", and by extension, his friends at Google?The Silicon Valley trip was instructive. "In Palo Alto, the IP lawyers almost outnumber the software engineers," Hargreaves recalls."As we sped from Mountain View [the town where Google has its HQ], we passed an evangelical church with one of those comic billboards at its gate. Amid the glaze of the traffic, I think it said: 'Even Google cannot resolve every search'."• This article was amended on 15 March 2011 to clarify the British Library's position
Twitter has amazed and outraged developers by warning them that it will severely curtail their ability to build apps that use its output.Theannouncement on Twitter's development mailing list– which has notably not been repeated or referred to on itscompany blog– comes fromRyan Sarver, the head of platform and API at Twitter.The site, which has grown from 48m to 140m tweets per day in the last year, and which celebrated its fifth birthday on Sunday night, now says that it is going in effect to take over the process of writing "the best client" for connecting to Twitter.The move follows thetemporary suspension last monthof a number of Twitter apps for "violating Twitter's terms of service".But for the dozens of third-party apps which hook into Twitter's API, and which find themselves and their ongoing development through adverts, payments, or a combination of both, the announcement is a threat to their existence.Sarver wrote:"With more people joining Twitter and accessing the service in multiple ways, a consistent user experience is more crucial than ever. As we talked about last April, this was our motivation for buying Tweetie and developing our own official iPhone app. It is the reason why we have developed official apps for the Mac, iPad, Android and Windows Phone, and worked with RIM on their Twitter for Blackberry app. As a result, the top five ways that people access Twitter are official Twitter apps,"Sarver wrote. He says that 90% of active users use one of the official Twitter apps on a monthly basis.But, he added,"Twitter is a network, and its network effects are driven by users seeing and contributing to the network's conversations. We need to ensure users can interact with Twitter the same way everywhere."Which means:"Twitter will provide the primary mainstream consumer client experience on phones, computers, and other devices by which millions of people access Twitter content (tweets, trends, profiles, etc), and send tweets. If there are too many ways to use Twitter that are inconsistent with one another, we risk diffusing the user experience. In addition, a number of client applications have repeatedly violated Twitter's Terms of Service, including our user privacy policy. This demonstrates the risks associated with outsourcing the Twitter user experience to third parties. Twitter has to revoke literally hundreds of API tokens / apps a week as part of our trust and safety efforts, in order to protect the user experience on our platform."That opening phrase - "Twitter will provide the primary mainstream consumer client experience" - is the one that hits like an icicle in developers' hearts. It implies that Twitter itself is going to make it harder for third-party apps to provide the same experience that it does; notably, that it may outlaw the addition of ads in prominent places (which are used to pay for apps which people can use for free, such asEchofon)Sarver adds, on the topic of "Display of tweets in 3rd-party services" that:"We need to ensure that tweets, and tweet actions, are rendered in a consistent way so that people have the same experience with tweets no matter where they are. For example, some developers display "comment", "like", or other terms with tweets instead of "follow, favorite, retweet, reply" - thus changing the core functions of a tweet."The phrasing may imply that one of the many Twitter apps using the service has somehow managed to abuse it – but it seems more likely that the company is drawing its products more closely to it, and pointing developers to other areas.Indeed, Sarver said as much inanother tweet: "you [developers] can still build apps and use other apps. We're just giving guidance that it's not a good business."Responding to Sarver, Eric Mill wrote that Sarver cannot say Twitter has a "welcoming" developer environment: "All third-party Twitter developers, no matter what they make, are now walking on eggshells, constantly at risk of offending Twitter's ideas of how users should interact with Twitter."Twitter itself recently annoyed users with an update to its own app for the iPhone to include a "trending topics" and advertising element in a bar across the top of the screen that couldn't be removed - but which people didn't want. It wasquickly dubbed the "Dickbar", nominally after the new chief executive of Twitter, Dick Costolo.Dave Winer commented that the bar wasn't as welcome as advertising on Google:"Advertising works for Google because when you go to Google you're looking for something. That's why you went there. So they can show you something like what you asked for and hope in some way it comes closer to what you want. Or, like most advertising, it could be a distraction. We noticed that people who drive BMWs also like Starbucks. We don't know why, but we thought we'd launch our new coffee place by running an ad next to searches for BMWs. It might just work. Or not."Twitter quicklyupdated the app, and while it didn't make the bar removable, it did make it less intrusive so that it did not overlap tweets.But for many users, the "Dickbar" became a sign of what a world in which only Twitter writes the Twitter apps could be like: one without choice, unlike the situation that has prevailed so far, in which anyone could write an app via the API. That doesn't fill them, or developers, with delight. Duane Roslands, in another response to Sarver on the mailing list, put it more pithily."Wow," he wrote. "'Thanks for getting so many people interested in Twitter. Now get lost.' This is appalling."Shannon Whitley, another developer,suggested it is time for Sarver to return to the company and tell it to reverse course."I understand the thinking behind this strategy, 'We must control input to the system. We need to have X in place to generate revenue using Y'. I don't have to tell you how wrong this thinking is, but somehow it's moved beyond a bean counter's dream into reality. Somehow, everyone in the boardroom forgot about Twitter's history of amazing innovation due to having an open API. They forgot that Twitter is a beautiful messaging platform with unlimited potential. Twitter has unlimited potential specifically because innovation on top of the API has been largely unlimited, until now. You know this, and I apologise for preaching to you, but darn it, you guys have to step up. You have to go back to the boardroom and tell them, 'You're wrong. There are plenty of ways to make a ton of cash and continue to grow Twitter, but controlling all of the clients on every platform isn't necessary and will actually cripple our system's long-term growth.'"So far there is no sign of Sarver, or Twitter, changing course.
A burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhy I am not worried about Japan's nuclear reactors &gt;&gt; Dr Josef OehmenOehmen is a research scientist at MIT: "I am writing this text (Mar 12) to give you some peace of mind regarding some of the troubles in Japan, that is the safety of Japan's nuclear reactors. Up front, the situation is serious, but under control. And this text is long! But you will know more about nuclear power plants after reading it than all journalists on this planet put together."Well, apart from the ones who've read the post, obviously.Microsoft apologizes for using Japan disaster to market Bing &gt;&gt; Buzzblog"The first rule of using social networking as a marketing tool should be: Know when to do it and when not to do it.&#10;"The aftermath of an unfathomable natural disaster should be Example No. 1 of when not to do it.&#10;"Yet those responsible for Microsoft's Twitter account dedicated to its search engine, Bing, on Saturday afternoon treated the ongoing tragedy in Japan as an opportunity to spread the word about their product."It is simply toe-curling for a company with billions in the bank to be holding people's empathy to ransom at $1 per tweet - up to a limit of $100,000, of course. Charity has its limits.Rock, paper scissors: Should I get a Kindle, iPad or MacBook Air? &gt;&gt; Gravitational PullThe Kindle has been overlooked, but may already be one of the most widely-used "tablets" out there. And all without any great hubbub from Amazon.Interest in iPad 2 far outstrips interest in rival tablets | VentureBeat"The iPad 2 is far outrunning its rivals in terms of worldwide awareness, according to Google Trends... people are Googling the iPad 2 far more than they are the Motorola Xoom or the Samsung Galaxy Tab. The same holds true for rivals such as the Amazon Kindle, the HP TouchPad, and the RIM PlayBook."Possibly not that surprising, given the coverage and ads. But it shows the distance the others have to catch up.Apple iPad 2 GPU Performance Explored &gt;&gt; AnandTechThe smallest improvement, compared to the original iPad, is a trebling of graphics speed. The Motorola Xoom is also tested: AnandTech's benchmarks find it's faster than the original iPad, but nowhere near the iPad 2.How the Japan Earthquake Shortened the Earth Day &gt;&gt; Space.com"A new analysis of the 8.9-magnitude earthquake in Japan has found that the intense temblor has accelerated Earth's spin, shortening the length of the 24-hour day by 1.8 microseconds, according to geophysicist Richard Gross at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California."How we update Windows Phone software &gt;&gt; Windows Phone Blog"First, the engineering team here makes and thoroughly tests changes to our Windows Phone operating system software, adding new and improved features or making fixes."But ... The companies that make your Windows Phone handset - or even the chips inside them - also frequently provide us updated firmware that they've written, tested, and want us to include."This combination makes up our update, which we dispatch to the carriers around the world that sell Windows Phones. [They] then conduct their own tests to help ensure that the new software works correctly both on their networks and the Windows Phone models they sell."We work closely with our carrier partners, and encourage them to test our software as swiftly as possible. But it's still their network, and the reality is that some carriers require more time than others. By the way, this carrier testing is a common industry practice that all of our competitors must also undergo. No exceptions."&#10;So how are iOS updates simultaneous?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
If one thing was clear from the chaos surrounding the recent uprisingsin Egypt and Libya it was this: the Guardian covered these stories ina way that would have been unthinkable a few years ago. Where once wewould have simply deployed reporters on the ground, now we were alsolive blogging information sourced from social mediaand employing community co-ordinators to wade through the 1000 plus comments on the articles and re-publish the best ones above the line (in a myriad of forms, from Q&amp;As to comment articles).Traditional journalism played its role too - facts were being verifiedwith phone calls to on-the-ground reporters and trusted bloggers - butnonetheless this coverage showed how the Guardian had adoptedradically different working methods. So how else could mediaorganisations adopt a more open model of new reporting anddistribution in the future?This was the big questions atOpen For News: Turning Journalism InsideOut. And given the number of questions and ideas batted around byaudience members, an equally pressing question might be "How are wegoing to answer this question in an hour before the next panel comesto boot us all out?"The session's hosts - theGuardian's deputy editor Ian Katzandmediajournalist Jemima Kiss- were keen to explore ways in which we shouldbe reorganising our newsrooms. These included embracing new platformslikePosterousandStorify, but they weren't all as tech-focused as you might imagine - for instance, Kiss mentioned simple practicalsteps such as spending some of her working week sat up with developersto help her get a fresh perspective on things (she may have shotherself in the foot mentioning this, as Katz commented "So that'swhere you are when I need to find you!").There were other topics mulled over too. When should we collaborate ona project (as withWikileaks) and when should we simply repeatinformation? Are we too reliant on live blogs (some people cravedshort snappy summaries when all they could find was lengthyminute-by-minute coverage)? And does it matter where content ispublished (the Guardian are usingTumblrandTwitterto post a good deal of this year's SXSW material, for example)?Judging by the queue of people waiting to shoot around more ideas withKatz and Kiss as the next session tried to move in, these are allquestions that won't be answered fully any time soon.
The editor-in-chief and managing editor of the US technology site Engadget are leaving the site, adding to an outflow of staff this year.Joshua Topolsky and Nilay Patel are departing, with Topolsky sayingin a post on the site itselfthat he isn't leaving the technology industry or "the news game" and that he is staying on as editor-at-large.Owned by AOL, the site is one of the largest tech news sites in the industry, with about 14m visitors per month and a staff of more than 25.Kara Swisher of the AllThingsD site reports that Topolsky and Patel had had longstanding issues with AOL and that the decision was not triggered bythe acquisition of Arianna Huffington's Huffington Post sitewhich promoted her to head of content; instead she had tried to persuade the duo to remain, unsuccessfully.However there have been rumblings among the site's staff lately, with two other senior departures, by Ross Miller and (unrelated) Paul Miller: the latter wrote in arecent personal blog postentitled "Leaving AOL" about his depature, saying:"AOL has proved an unwilling partner in this site's evolution. It doesn't take a veteran of the publishing world to realise that AOL has its heart in the wrong place with content. As detailed in the [memo] "AOL Way," and borne out in personal experience, AOL sees content as a commodity it can sell ads against. That might make good business sense (though I doubt it), but it doesn't promote good journalism or even good entertainment, and it doesn't allow an ambitious team like the one I know and love at Engadget to thrive.".Miller was referring to a leaked copy of a58-page memo called "The AOL Way"which began circulating earlier this year and detailed requirements for more average page views per article – up from 1,500 to 7,000 – more concentration on video up from 4% of stories to 70%.Among the strictures in the document:• AOL tells its editors to decide what topics to cover based on four considerations: traffic potential, revenue potential, edit quality and turn-around time;• editors are told to decide whether to produce content based on "profitability consideration" - which balances what sort of ads can be placed against particular topics. Stories which cannot attract enough page views are in effect not worth writing;• in-house staffers are expected to write between five and 10 stories per day.The tensions for Engadget, which has broken a number of technology stories, would be obvious: some stories that its writers might judge important could equally be deemed unprofitable under AOL's calculations. It was the first site to have a full copy of the "burning platform" memo by Nokia's new chief executive, ex-Microsoft divisional head Stephen Elop, in which he set out the reasons why the company needed an entirely new strategy in its mobile phone business. Under AOL's costing system, it is hard to know whether Nokia - which has a miniscule market share in the US, where Engadget's princpal audience is based – would merit the coverage the site gave it.Engadget was founded in 2004 by Peter Rojas, who was the founding editor of Gizmodo, part of Nick Denton's group of blogs, but left after demanding an equity share. Within a year Engadget was bigger than Gizmodo, and it has retained that lead since – though Gizmodo has achieved some notable scoops, including a prototype of Apple's iPhone 4 which it bought from a person who had acquired it after an Apple employee left it in a bar.
4Chan, the influential internet subculture which spawnedAnonymous,RickrollingandRage Guy, is "misunderstood" as "the dark heart of the internet", its founder Christopher Poole said today.Outlining his case for online anonymity – complete with a dig at Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg – 24-year-old Poole argued that 4Chan's chaotic  messageboard is a fertile breeding ground for creativity."It's riffing on a massive scale," Poole told a packed audience in the Austin Convention Centre. "4Chan is misunderstood – people like to think that /b/ [4Chan's infamously random subforum] is the dark heart of the internet. It isn't just that."People want to think everyone on 4Chan is a young rambunctious male. That's not accurate – it's a wide range of people using it. One of the things that 4Chan does that's really special is the way people come together to collaborate en masse. It's the process at which you arrive at the product that is fascinating."Poole, better known by his online alias Moot, has long been a leading advocate of anonymity. It was one of thefounding principles of 4Chan. It is this that sets him in stark contrast to Zuckerberg, two years his elder, who described anonymous internet posting as showing "a lack of integrity"."Zuckerberg's totally wrong on anonymity being total cowardice. Anonymity is authenticity. It allows you to share in a completely unvarnished, raw way," Poole said, adding that the internet allows people to "reinvent themselves" as if they were moving home or starting a new job."The cost of failure is really high when you're contributing as yourself," he said.Around one in four of 4Chan's 25 million monthly users are active contributors to the forum, according to Poole.What would Poole do if he started 4Chan today? Well, it would look a lot like his weeks-old image manipulation and sharing project,Canvas. Still in closed beta, Poole says flinging open the doors to thousands of users would "dilute the culture" that already exists there – a stark contrast to 4Chan's early days (although Poole was just 15 at the time.)"One of the mistakes I've made is believing in an invisible guiding hand as far as moderation goes. And that if you give the community the right structure they could police themselves," he admits."I've underestimated the value of having a real staff presence, and encouraging them to police the boards behind the scenes. When it's not clear that we're leading things it's like we're not there and that we don't care – it's extremely detrimental to community."At one point, we let it go [to the extent that] we were so far behind the scenes that when we came back it was met with a mixed reaction [from 4Chan users]."
The BBC's Persian TV service has been the scourge of the Iranian government since its first broadcast little over two years ago.Without a reporter in the country, and in the face of systematic jamming by state authorities, the World Service channel has become increasingly reliant on video, audio and images published by Iranian citizens."Since the presidential protests [in December 2009], the government has realised the power of that footage and decided to work actively to not let the BBC and others broadcast it," saidSanam Dolatshahi, a London-based producer and presenter for BBC Persian TV."So they would jam our footage and show their own version of events – using the same UGC, but to tell a different story, a different version of events. They would also try to make us broadcast wrong stuff so that we would lose our credibility."Dolatshahi recalls receiving a number of reports – including from another BBC correspondent – that a marked police van had repeatedly run over and injured one Iranian protester during the uprising.However, in the absence of citizen footage of the event the news was deemed too unreliable to broadcast. It was three days later, when a series of videos which appeared to support the claims surfaced, that the channel ran with the news."Somehow it's as if our coverage is now dependent on pictorial evidence and video footage," Dolatshahi said."But if you rely on videos so much then you don't have enough to prove stories. It's very challenging for us when we're accused of feeding protests and showing wrong stuff. So we have to sit down and do more verification and cross-checking of our sources."The BBC received around eight videos a minute from the streets of Iran during the 2009 uprising. But it was far from a "Twitter revolution", Dolatshahi said."The reality was that people in Iran weren't using Twitter. It was people outside of Iran. We were just the receivers of this information."It was interesting after the election because people were beginning to hear about YouTube and videos. Some would take it from YouTube and share via Bluetooth on their cell phones. I can confidently say that since the election protests, and when TV channels showed YouTube, more people have started using those communication technologies."Raymond Li, the head of BBC China, says he circumvents the communist state's censors by publishing news on Twitter-equivalent sites, where regulation is less strict."Foreign media like us have been persistently blocked by China for a long time. Instead people are using proxy software or social media sites to come to us," Li said."By using microblogging sites the censorship of media seems to be less. By publishing news and content on microblog sites you can publish stuff you wouldn't get published in public media spaces, but you have to be careful and skillful."
Like the video phone call, the flying car was a promise that went undelivered for decades. And like the video phone, just when we all accepted we were probably better off  without it anyway, along  it comes.If all goes well, the Transition, produced in Massachusetts by a US company calledTerrafugia, may hit the market next year. It will not, however, provide you with an instant escape from traffic jams. The Transition's makers  call it a "roadable aircraft", which means it's not so much a flying car as a plane you can drive.  It still needs an airport to take  off, but when you land the wings fold up and the petrol engine that drives the propeller engages the wheels. It's aimed at eliminating some of the difficulties faced by light aircraft pilots – you can  still get where you're going in  bad weather, and you can store the plane in your garage – but  you couldn't call it a practical option: the Transition will  retail for about £120,000. You  can buy a plane and a car  for a lot less.
A great interviewer makes so much difference to a panel, as proven by Kara Swisher of AllThingsD interviewing Flipboard founder Mike McCue. He's at the intersection of publishing and social media, integrating both and making online content beautiful again. "It's the real-time principles of the web married to the timeless principles of print … the rhythm of storytelling, layout, typography has not made its way to the web yet," said McCue.• Some publishers don't what to be on the journey with you, points out Swisher. "We wanted to build something inherently friendly to publishers," he said, explaining that the pitch is to help publishers make their content shine on the web. "Banners compete for attention, for real estate – it makes the entire web experience feel clunky. The content and the advertising doesn't have room to breathe."• "To be a viable publisher in this new world you have to think about how your content is going to map to social real-time experience," said McCue. He used National Geographic as an example, and said they should have a Twitter list of explorers trekking right now in the North Pole and taking photos with their camera phones, teamed with the beautifully produced and rendered articles from print. That encourages a deeper bond between the journalists, photojournalists and reader.• Flipboard has raised $10.5m from Kleiner and Index, but is it benefiting from a frothy market? "Facebook and Twitter … there's real business value happening there It's not like in the later 1990s where it was all hype and no revenue." These are legitimate business with lofty valuations. "There are few companies in the world that you could legitimately say are changing the world, but Facebook and Twitter are. That has implications in government, in changing social relationships – we are living in a culminating time where the stuff we talked about in the 1990s is finally coming true."• There was a great moment when McCue demonstrated how Instagram is being used by Flipboard users to send supportive messages to people in Japan; Instagram doesn't support text so users are drawing or writing messages and then sending screen shots to Instagram.• "I love working with Apple …" Ripples of amusement in the room. "I'm a big believer in what Apple is doing with the tablet and we weren't going to launch until they did that. I have no inside information but wouldn't be surprised if Apple did their own newstand similar to iBooks … My biorhythms are attached to where we are in the app store charts…"  Kara Swisher responded: "The classiest fascist company in America."• McCue is on the board of Twitter, so what does he think of the company's decision yesterday to restrict APIs that let external developers build Twitter clients. APIs help grow the overall ecosystem and help a company flourish in a way that it couldn't do itself, but they have to understand how the ecosystem is evolving. "There will continue to be other clients that are better at other elements, but Twitter wants to make sure the APIs are not being used as a way of creating replica or competitor services, or those that take tweets but don't have a RT button."• Buying something is an emotional decision, said McCue. "I'm a believer in the mystery of advertising in Vogue magazine where you can't turn the dress around 360 degrees – the second you make it so I can see every angle and zoom in to the fabric – it takes the interest out of buying." Flipboard, McCue admitted, has zero revenues but the ads will come; 92% of ad spend is still offline, so there's plenty of room to beautify ads too. As for funding, Swisher offered some reassurance: "There's not enough rat holes to stuff all the money from Silicon Valley down at the moment."
Six years ago Jay Rosen wrote an essay arguing that it was time to abandon the sterile opposition between blogging and traditional journalism.On Saturday at SXSWhe was still trying to convince us. "It's one internet. The news system now incorporates the people formerly known as the audience."Rosen had sharp words for the partisans on both sides who were determined to keep the feud alive. The aggression many bloggers still direct at mainstream journalists "preserves some of the ragged innocence [of blogging] by falsely locating all power in big media." But in fact "the press is us, not them."For their part mainstream journalists were guilty of claiming a monopoly on tradition when in fact bloggers were the true heirs to great muckraking reporters such as Lincoln Steffens. "Bloggers are closer to Tom Paine than Bob Woodward is."Rosen contrasted Steffens, who once declared "I did not want to preserve, I wanted to destroy the facts", with the contemporary Washington Post, whose social media guidelines warn its journalists: "Nothing we do must call into question the impartiality of our news judgment."But "no one ever says I went into journalism because I had a passion for being objective". People become journalists because they want to change the world but "when they get there they find the professional codes prevent this".Modern American journalism, preoccupied with the idea of objectivity and detachment, had needlessly snuffed out its own voice. "What's really important is that people telling us about the world understand the importance of accuracy, verification, and transparency. Whether you voice your opinion is really a stylistic question."Mainstream journalists' antagonism towards bloggers, he suggested, was sustained by the huge stress they find themselves under, which stems from five developments:1. The collapsing economic model of newspapers.2. Journalists having to face new kinds of competition.3. A shift in power to the audience.4. New patterns of information flow in which information moves horizontally from citizen to citizen as efficiently as vertically.5. Erosion of trust and related loss of authority.Sneering at bloggers was a way journalists avoided confronting these developments. In short "this is fucking neurotic."
Despite its somewhat fantastical title,Tactics Ogre: Let Us Cling Togetheris a game actually built around the seeming mundanity of numbers and statistics, and of the acronyms and jargon that come to accompany the genuinely wonderfully strange world they create.Developed by acclaimed Japanese studio Square Enix,Tactics Ogreis a remake of a 1995 fantasy themed turn-based combat strategy game of the same name. Fundamentally, it is not hugely different from chess – put in charge of a band of warriors who each boast distinct defensive, offensive and magical talents, the player must outwit and defeat various squads of rivals.InTactics Ogrethe chessboard is replaced with rural realms realised in a visual style that evokes a sense of the gaming of the 1990s, and the rules are certainly more complex than most board games. Choices abound as everything from armour and team member recruitment must be considered. But, thanks to a well-balanced playing system, once you overcome the initial challenge of understanding its mechanics everything is very instinctive, and the battles that play out become increasingly elaborate and exhilarating.Never patronising and often demanding,Tactics Ogreis perfect for exercising the old grey matter amid a spectacularly colourful world of  warring knights and magical realms
Often misunderstood as an eastern take onGrand Theft Auto,Yakuza 4is to the Japanese role-playing genre whatMass Effect 2is to its western equivalent: a game where well-staged action sequences and gripping storytelling are just as important as character skills and stats.If there's less opportunity for the player to shape the plot here, the drama is every bit as compelling. Series regular Kazuma Kiryu takes a back seat, as the focus switches to three new characters:  Shun Akiyama, a noble loan shark attempting to help a troubled client; man-mountain Taiga Saejima who escapes death row looking for revenge; and Masayoshi Tanimura, an apparently corrupt policeman with a surprising secret.Their stories are cleverly intertwined, as Kazuma is reluctantly hauled back into action for a thrilling climax. Meanwhile, the four very different fighting styles add variety to the frequent, brutally satisfying, brawls. The true star, however, is Kamurocho, an authentically detailed take on the Tokyo district of Kabukicho – one of the medium's most vivid worlds – which is now crammed with even more distractions. It's one of many reasons why this ambitious and surprisingly tender crime epic deserves to be more than a cult hit.
Dragon Age 2frames its story as a tale-within-a-tale – a novel narrative device in gaming. Instead of playing through hero Hawke's entire quest – including all the boring goblin-slaying, getting lost and other general slow-time – you're playing the edited highlights, as told by an associate of Hawke's under duress to a mysterious captor. It's a clever conceit that strips out a lot of the drudgery that can make this type of fantasy role-playing game a chore.It also allows the story to cover a much greater timespan than most – 10 years, to be precise. You follow Hawke and company from bedraggled escapees to world-conquering heroes, but it's not a straightforward rise to glory. There's not even one clearly defined "evil bad guy" – it's more subtle than that. And it's one of many things thatDragon Age 2does to subvert expectations of the genre.Like its predecessor, the game is extremely violent. Blood spatters everywhere as you cut through hordes of demonic spawn, and it stays plastered all over your poor party members for dialogue and cut scenes too. But the combat itself feels more like an action-adventure than role-playing. At first, you're basically button-mashing to attack or throw spells, but as extra skills become available, it develops into a nuanced, tactical system. The combat isn't the only thing that has changed since the firstDragon Agegame, with many features from the level-up menus to the crafting system being transformed. It is no longer possible to customise your companions' armour and skills to the extent that you could inOrigins, for example.That might look like dumbing down – and sometimes it does feel that way – but the absence of these peripheral distractions signals a change in focus forDragon Age. It wants you to concentrate on the story and the characters and your decisions and the incredibly detailed world and history that it lays out for you to explore – not on managing an inventory or fiddling around in combat menus. Rather than a concession to accessibility or casual players, it's a conscious design choice.Dragon Ageis, believe it or not,  quite a political game – right from the very start, where Hawke arrives in a foreign city as, essentially, an asylum seeker and meets a less than warm welcome, the game lays out its sociopolitical and cultural intent. And, to be honest, that's far more interesting than making minute tweaks to a skill tree.
Yehuda Duenyas, as a little boy, wanted to be able to fly. Who didn't? But the New York-based artist and director, now 37, also "wanted to design rides for Disneyland" – dual ambitions that have finally mashed together in a new installation he calls the Ascent.Hard not to get excited by the sound of this one, which will be unveiled at the Experimental Media and Performing Arts Centre (Empac) in New York in May. It's a sort of flight simulator. Combined with a trapeze. Combined with a computer game. Combined with mind control.Duenyas explains that users are put into a wire-rigged harness and then fitted with a "futuristic-looking hat", which can read EEGs or brain waves ("Not thoughts, but the electric impulses that your brain generates"). In the right state of Zen-like relaxation, the user can trigger specific brain waves which then feed into special computer hardware and software – Duenyas calls this bit "the infinity simulator" – enabling mental control of the rigging.The videos of Duenyas and his team testing the machine (vimeo.com/20271253) look fantastic – and scary. Users can float up to about 30 feet. "The more you relax and clear you mind, the higher you levitate. It can be disquieting. Thirty feet is quite high..."Duenyas has also introduced spacy video and sound elements into the installation – users will be surrounded by video screens, also influenced by brain waves picked up by the headset – aiming to give the experience a dream-like feel. "I think we all want to be able to fly. The Ascent feels like what you imagine from your dreams."Anybody at Empac will be able to have a go. As for hopeful flyers in the UK, Duenyas hopes the installation will tour in the future.For more information, see Duenyas's website: ymdprojects.com
Price£116,6600-604.1 secondsTop speed194mphThere are certain phone calls a father dreads receiving from their teenage son. This was one. "Uh, hullo Dad, it's me, you know… Rufus." I recognised my 14-year-old's laconic drawl and total absence of consonants, but it was good of him to tip me off. "Well, you know that nice car you've got this week?"Do you mean the blisteringly fast, scarlet-hued R8 Spyder with a&nbsp;525bhp, direct-injection V10 engine and four-wheel drive? I chortled."Yeah, that one," he replied. And then I heard him pause and swallow. "Well, me and my friends were mucking about in it and, like, sorry and everything, but I think we've broken it…"It turned out that Rufus and his mates hadn't been thrashing the £116,660 supercar around the block, but had just been sitting in it, roof down, music up… and had somehow locked the roof in a half-up position. I&nbsp;couldn't really blame him. It's such a magnetically attractive car it's hard to keep your hands off it.The new Spyder, which introduces a bigger engine and folding canvas roof to the mega-successful R8, which was launched on a&nbsp;grateful nation two years ago, has a sort charisma forcefield that stops passersby mid-stride. Peering out of my front window at the supercar crouching under the yellow street lamps, it became a game to spot anybody whodidn'tpause and gawp. School kids dug out their phones to snap pictures of themselves doing gang signs next to it, men peered through the windows. When two teenage girls marched past arm in arm, without even registering it, I almost cheered.When the Spyder's hardtopped sister with its distinctive twin side blades was released it was instantly buried in an avalanche of accolades. I&nbsp;can think of few other cars that  had so many motoring journalists pinning their colours to the mast and, hands on hips, proclaiming: "This is the best two-seater I've ever driven." But now we have the Spyder – classier, curvier, lighter, fasteranda&nbsp;convertible… It looks like the best has just got bester.The folding roof is a masterclass in origami and tucks itself behind the seats in less than 20 seconds, even at speeds of up to 31mph (try at 32mph and, who knows, you might take off like a parasailer). It has a boot, too, that's big enough to store a pair of boots. If you are thinking of buying a Spyder – it's the most expensive car Audi makes – you'll need to ask yourself one question. Can you cope with the adulation? It's a car for exhibitionists. But then who wouldn't want to show off in a car that boasts such electrifying performance.It is so low and quick it's like sitting in a bobsleigh. Its swooping side-scoops mean you stick to the road like insects to fly paper. The interior is surprisingly basic. Yes, there's plenty of leather about and the square-bottomed steering wheel and touch points all have a glossy feel to them. There are parking sensors, LED headlights, satnav, Bang &amp; Olufsen stereo and a nifty phone mic in the driver's seatbelt, but despite all its pyrotechnics, the Spyder has a purity of purpose which makes you believe you aren't, in fact, a big-headed show- off. You just care deeply about things like, well, going very fast.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one place
Mobile games have been dominated by quite a narrow range of genres, which is not surprising, given the limitations and demands of the format. A vast, sprawling role-playing epic is not only hard to fit on to a phone, it also doesn't correspond with the demand for short, satisfying snippets of gameplay. It's pleasing, then, to see developers thinking carefully about ways to develop existing gaming themes.Bugs Wars(Chillingo £1.19, Apple App Store), for example, is a clever blend of both the shooter and tower defence genres. It tasks you with protecting a group of human survivors from waves of attacking alien bugs. Money is earned as levels are completed, requiring careful management of both the budget and the four weapon slots that keep the armoury suitably equipped. The controls work fantastically and intuitively, somehow overcoming the usual problems with the virtual analogue stick favoured by iPhone games, while eliminating the problem of obscuring the enemy with your aiming finger.The graphics are patchy – don't expect anyStarship Troopers-style visual flourishes – but the gameplay is absorbing, addictive even. The only real downside toBugs Warsis that it simply doesn't go on long enough, especially with no multiplayer option. Upping the score and grade achieved on each level is fun, but not enough to provide massive replayability. However, for the price, it's unfair to demand much more, and this is a very welcome example of developers approaching the mobile medium creatively.
Before Petra Nemcova was a supermodel, TV presenter and global philanthropist, she was a Czech schoolgirl too timid to talk. "I was so afraid to even read a paper in front of my classmates," she laughs. "It is very funny because at that point my teachers would never have believed that I could speak in front of an audience of over 2,000 people."They'd be even more incredulous if they knew what Nemcova had been through. When she speaks at theObserver/TEDx festival of ideason Saturday, it will, in part, be to revisit the emotionally and physically devastating experience of the Boxing Day tsunami of 2004, of which she has been having flashbacks since she awoke to news of events in Japan."My heart goes out to everyone in Japan. It's so overwhelming and impossible to describe what they're feeling," she says. "But the second feeling I have is one of frustration because it reinforced that people don't know what to do when natural disasters happen. We cannot stop natural disasters but we can arm ourselves with knowledge: so many lives wouldn't have to be lost if there was enough disaster preparedness."One of the thousands of lives lost in the Indian Ocean earthquake seven years ago was that of Simon Atlee, then Nemcova's fiancé. The couple were on holiday in Thailand when the quake caused a wave so forceful that it blasted away her clothes and swept her and Atlee from their hotel.Naked, and with a shattered pelvis and multiple internal injuries, she managed to cling to a palm tree for eight hours until she was rescued by air. Atlee's body was found months later.Nemcova, now 31, has not only recovered but has founded a charity, theHappy Hearts Fund, which improves the lives of children living in natural disaster areas. She doesn't think of her ordeal as a tragedy. Instead "it is about overcoming adversity and how the tragedy can bring lots of light to the person who's experienced it and to many others around them."Wanting to help and not being able to – that was the hardest," she says of her experience. "Because you hear children screaming on the next tree and then after a while you don't hear them any more. You can't get to them because of the debris and the injuries and that's horrifying, knowing that."She talks about all this with remarkable peace and credits meditation with helping her survive. While holding on to the palm tree, "I was able to stay very calm and focused, aware very much of everything that was happening. I guess I was more prepared because of it."She was in intensive care in Thailand for two months and then in hospital in the Czech Republic for another two, learning to walk. From the start, though, she wanted to go back to help. "I had broken bones everywhere, it was impossible, but I think the vision that was so strong of me going back helped with my healing process. Some of the doctors said that some people heal from the same injuries in two years but I healed in four months."In April 2005 she returned to Thailand with her sister and, while they handed out food and blankets, she began mentally creating a charity. By 2006, the Happy Hearts Fund had become a reality. It has grown, she says, "from a two-person team doing everything on our knees, literally, to rebuilding 47 schools and having a presence in nine countries".It differs from other charities in three ways, she says. First, it focuses on what's known as "the gap period" – the time between the initial response after a natural disaster and the rebuilding."It's usually when the cameras leave that the support leaves as well," she says. It can take up to a decade for government rebuilding to happen: "Sometimes a whole generation skips their education. And in areas where it's so poor already, they go even more down the spiral and extreme poverty is there for so many more years."But if you're able to rebuild the school, it's not just children who get opportunities for a better future, the whole community gets excited and uplifted. So that one school can bring the whole village to incredible opportunity and growth."The second difference is the emphasis on sustainability. The charity has partnerships with the model agency IMG and others which help communities establish small businesses around schools, meaning they don't have to rely on government. Finally, the charity has zero administration costs: they're underwritten by its board members which means "100% of our donations go straight to children".The charity isn't the only thing in her life. This year she became engaged to British actor Jamie Belman and says she wants a family, "but not that soon – there's still so much to do". Not least looking after the 31,000 children whom, she jokes, she already has.Nemcova speaks very fast, with still-accented English that can't keep up with the force and feeling of her thoughts. When she watched speeches at the original TED conference in Oxford she says she could feel her brain "radiating out excitement" but it's easy to see her having that effect on other people. It goes some way in explaining her commitment to the charity; so too does her own experience of education.She was born in 1979 in what is now the Czech Republic and had what she calls "a very simple but loving background": her father built houses and her mother is a teacher."I was very lucky because when my sister and I were in our teens my mother always knew all the tricks that we were trying to pull on her, so we could never get away from it. I grew up under Communism so we could only learn Russian, and then when Communism fell in 1989 we could learn a few more things and have the freedom to travel and the freedom of speech – and the freedom of dreaming, really."She places most importance on the practical power of knowledge. She cites, as an example, the story of the British girl Tilly Smith, then 10, who in 2004 recognised the warning signs of the impending tsunami on a beach on the Thai island of Phuket and raised the alarm. As Nemcova puts it: "A little girl who had a great teacher in geography saved over a hundred people."Nemcova and the foundation are based in New York, and travelling between the city and poor disaster zones is, she concedes, "quite strange".Modelling, I suggest, must seem inconsequential in comparison."I had a hard time after the tsunami to find the purpose in it," she says. "The first few jobs I found it very hard to find a deeper meaning. But I've realised that people in the fashion industry want to help. Because they focus a lot on bringing the glamour, bringing the beauty, they search and strive for depth and meaning. You strive for it because you need it in  your life."
Here's a tale of two societies. The South Korean communications commission is planning toboost broadband speeds in that countrytenfold by the end of 2012. That means Koreans will get one gigabit per second (Gbps) connections by next year, which is 200 times as fast as the 5Mbps ADSL connection which is common in the UK. Meanwhile, back in the middle ages (aka Whitehall next Wednesday), a ministerial summit on "net neutrality" convened by the culture secretary Ed Vaizey will hear how Britain's internet service providers (ISPs) plan to throttle still further the measly internet access they provide to the citizens of the UK in order to boost their bottom lines and reduce competition.Now it has to be said that the principle of net neutrality is not exactly a staple of saloon-bar conversation, so most citizens will assume that next Wednesday's discussions have nothing to do with them. In this, they are sadly mistaken – as they will discover if Ed Vaizey does indeed agree to let the ISPs violate or erode the principle. Their rude awakening will happen when, one future winter's evening, internet users decide that they would like to catch up on an episode ofQIon the BBC iPlayer and find that the download is so slow and erratic that it's unwatchable. What will puzzle them even more is that videos from Sky not only come down in a whoosh, but play faultlessly in HD. And then, perhaps, the penny will drop. By which time, of course, it will be too late.The reason the internet has been such an powerful enabler of innovation is that it is, at its core, a meritocratic network which is not owned or controlled by anyone. All it does is take data packets in at one end and deliver them to their destinations at the other. And it was designed to be agnostic about the packets – to give them all the same treatment. In that sense, it was "neutral" towards applications. If you had a good idea that could be implemented in data packets, then the internet would do it for you, no questions asked.It was this neutrality that enabled the explosion of creativity triggered by the network. As Barbara van Schewick explains in a compelling book,Internet Architecture and Innovation, one implication of net neutrality was that the barriers to entry to the online market were incredibly low: all you needed was a good idea, programming skills and enough money to rent space on a server. So it's no accident that some of the most iconic internet businesses – Amazon, eBay, Google, Blogger and Facebook to name just five – were launched without any significant capital investment by anyone other than their founders and their friends and families.This is what makes cyberspace so different from the "real" world – where anyone seeking to create an innovative, disruptive business has to find a way of placating or buying off the incumbents. Net neutrality enables something radically different, what one might call "permissionless innovation".The Harvard scholar Lawrence Lessig illustrates this witha nice storyabout two Massachusetts ferrymen, Tom First and Tom Scott, who invented a juice drink that proved popular with their passengers. Slowly, it dawned on them that maybe there was a business here, so they founded Nantucket Nectars and built it into a company that was eventually sold to Cadbury Schweppes.But, writes Lessig, "At each step after the first, along the way to giving their customers what they wanted, the two Toms had to ask permission from someone. They needed permission from a manufacturer to get into his plant. Permission from a distributor to get into her network. And permission from stores to get before the customer. Each step between the idea and the customer was a slog. They made the slog, and succeeded. But many try to make that slog and fail. Sometimes for good reasons. Sometimes not."Critics of net neutrality argue that while it might have been appropriate in the early days of the net to treat all packets the same, it no longer makes sense because different applications have different needs. So it doesn't matter if the packets which make up an email message are delayed, but it's a real pain if that happens to packets in a Skype conversation or an iPlayer stream. And that's true. It would be and daft to insist on a neutrality that stifled new applications and technological progress. So an intelligent position for the government would be to allow ISPs to discriminate between different types of internet application (so long as it's done transparently), but ban them from favouring individual content providers.If Mr Vaizey fumbles this, then will the last entrepreneur emigrating to South Korea please switch off the lights.
Dubbed "the gatekeeper of Google products", Marissa Mayer knows what she's talking about.Ultimately, it falls at Mayer's door to ensure the internet giant remains as agile, innovative and willing to experiment as it was a decade ago."The challenge is how to stay true to what originally built this big and successful brand, with a lot of experimentation and still moving really fast," Mayer said on Friday."Now, when new people come in [to Google] who say their products are 'not good enough for the Google name' you have to tell them that the Google name was built on building stuff, throwing it out there, getting feedback, seeing how it works, ramping it up, making it a success and then managing resource afterwards."What you end up with, then, is a proliferation of products. This is where Google has fallen short, Mayer admitted."Some of our products should be features, like Latitude and Google Hotpot," she said. "One of the things we need to do more is merge these products into core technologies, consolidate into Maps or Places. There's probably more than one product [Latitude and Hotpot could fit into] but we still need to condense somewhat."Mayer, an upwardly mobile Stanford University graduate who joined the Mountain View company almost 12 years ago, also admitted that Google Maps needs some form of customer support. (Late last year, Nicaragua refused to withdrawtroopsfrom a disputed parcel of land along its border with Costa Rica after Google Maps wrongly labelled it Nicaraguan territory.)"We do need to have some support there, and step up our customer service," Mayer said.About 40% of Google Maps usage is local, according to Mayer, with 150 million people using the mobile Google Maps. (And drivers across the world travel 12bn miles a year using Google Maps navigation – who needs satnav?)Location-based services, including new releases of Maps for mobile, check-ins, deals and augmented reality, are evolving into quintessentially Google products. The world of "contextual discovery" – organising information, reviews and deals around a given location – is the local play on Google's longest-standingambition.Asked by the Guardian how Google manages to assuage privacy fears with cutting-edge consumer products, Mayer said that its Street View technology had got "better and better at blurring" licence plates and other opt-outs.Mayer said Google is "transparent" about the data it needs to inform its products, adding: "There are actually a lot of places that have a lot of data about you that people don't know. I read the other week that credit card companies know with 98% accuracy two years before that you're going to get divorced – that's crazy."But it means that there's things that you don't even know about, like changes in your spouse's buying power. The real question is: because that data's always been there but now it's been recorded, the question is how are they handling it?"
Much of the focus of this discussion was inevitably focused on Facebook's photos product manager,Sam Odio, who disappointingly played the "not my remit' card when asked the most interested and pertinent questions about Facebook's use of users' photos, including facial recognition and how images might be co-opted by advertisers.• Facebook sees "a Flickr's worth of photos uploaded every month", said Odio. But it's worth considering the different values of those two services: Flickr includes some high-quality, well edited photography, while Facebook focuses on storytelling over quality. It doesn't matter, said Odio, if that first photo of your newborn nephew is blurry: it's the social context behind the photo.• Odio fielded a question by one delegate about how businesses and advertisers might start appropriating photos for commercial use. "We're not in the business of selling ads through people's photos and we want to prevent businesses having free rein over users," he said. "But businesses are users," pushed the delegate. Odio said Facebook would want the people in the photos to be telling the story – which means advertising would be there but more subtly, and directed by users.• As for ownership of photos, Odio said that comes down to the need to build the API in such a way that it can access your friends' photos. If each of those users retained ownership, that would become very complicated. "There are worries we are going to use photos in advertising but it doesn't really benefit us that much given how sensitive the subject is."•Yan-David Erlick, a serial entrepreneur who founded Mophot.to, predicted that social photos will become even more integrated with our lives through different sorts of tagging. "Timelines between items will mean that over time, these entities are not viewed as individual pieces of media but will have contextual attributes tying them to other pieces."• Odio explained how after struggling to keep his startup photo site Divvyshot going in 2009, ploughing in all his own savings, he got a random email one Sunday night. It was from Blake Ross, who later turned out to be co-creator of Firefox, at an address at Facebook. "He said 'Sam – your site looks interesting. You should come here.' I was living with six developers at the time and they were all looking over my shoulder to figure out if the email was fake or not." It was, and Facebook acquired Divvyshot in April 2010.• Feature requests aren't always the best way to develop a product. Odio said nobody asked for Instagram, which just raised $7m in funding, but now it is taking off. Facebook's engineers also have a monthly hackathon where they can work on whatever they like; that doesn't determine product direction but features such as drag-and-drop organisation have come out of that.• On facial recognition, all Odio would say is that Facebook "hasn't been able to move quickly on it given how sensitive it is", which does seem to imply it would have liked to do plenty if it could have got away with it.• Odio said a startup should make the product extremely simple; he had got distracted when trying to add too many features and functions. "Focus on one thing and do it extremely well. In early days the product needs to be explained to users in 10 seconds or less."• One delegate said he was concerned that Facebook is becoming such an important repository for his life, and that photos are the most easily accessible part of that archive compared to status updates or messages. Erlich described the web being used as an external memory for us all, from photos to phone numbers; this ties in with Clay Shirky's idea of cognitive surplus – if machines can take over the mechanical parts of our brain function, what can we do with the space and energy that frees up?
For a future-facing festival, SXSWi's opening interview of Tim O'Reilly by Jason Calacanis was surprisingly retrospective, including the observations that led O'Reilly to coin the term "web 2.0" and the acquisition of GNN – the web's first commercial portal site that he founded in 1993. A review of O'Reilly's achievements was a good way of introducing the most respected figures in tech publishing to a new audience, but that inevitably meant it lacked any fresh bite.• O'Reilly set a high bar for "most unlikely SXSW quote'" prize: "Reagan is the father of Foursquare," he announced, then adding that while he was president, Ronald Reagan had no need to open the navy and air force GPS systems to civilians, but he had nevertheless done so.• O'Reilly has a particular expertise in identifying and describing emerging tech trends. "What makes big idea into a brand? Big ideas are like trains – people have to what to go that way. The big promise is that it belongs to everybody who wants it."• Hardware used to be where the value was, and Microsoft was seen as a maverick for investing in software as the future. Then the value was in the open principles of the internet, and companies that thrived in the post-crash era were large consumer-populated databases: eBay, Amazon, Google, Craigslist. They collected value from their users – harnessing collective intelligence. As for Google and Facebook: "They are great companies because what you get when you talk to Sergey [Brin] or Larry [Page], or to Mark [Zuckerberg], is that you know there is somebody wrestling with deep problems they really care about, not just optimising something to make money." Google lost that for a bit, he said, but Page is a big thinker. "He's in his element creating real enthusiasm, like Microsoft when Bill Gates really got the internet and said Microsoft is going to be a contender."• What's web 3.0? O'Reilly is putting his money on sensors gathering information, rather than people entering information on a keyboard. (Think mobiles, with sensors including GPS, and sites like Facebook adding facial recognition.)• Here's something you may not know: O'Reilly sold GNN to AOL, though he unwisely sold his AOL stock off too early. In fact as soon as he released it "didn't have a clue". He admitted that Cisco later offered to buy O'Reilly Publishing and when he questioned why they would what to buy a publisher, they told him: "You've been first more times than anyone else but have failed to exploit it."• Calacanis asked why O'Reilly was interested in government and he said hewas always disappointed when seemingly intelligent people expressed an interest in politics. O'Reilly said it was important to differentiate between the two, and said the problem is the perception of "vending machine government", where people put in money and expect service back. Instead, the approach should be more of a platform, a technological analogy: "Citizen participation is not just a way to reshape the vending machine," he said, though he wouldn't commit to support either Republican or Democrat strategies on revising US state health care service Medicare, for example. "We need the smart people from both sides."
Egyptian Christians join hands to protect praying Muslims in Tahrir Square. Photograph: Nevine ZakiWith a tear in Clay Shirky's eye, the 500-strong SXSWi audience in downtown Austin broke into a spontaneous round of applause.It was halfway through Shirky's keynote speech, with a photo of Egyptian Christians joining hands to protect praying Muslims in Tahrir Square, that his rallying cry for "more responsive governments" really moved his audience. "I always tear up when I talk about it [the photo]," the leading web thinker admitted.It was the most poignant moment of SXSWi so far – and in a talk thathis criticswould find it difficult to file under "digital utopianism".Shirky admitted to "getting it wrong" in previous writings about how social media can affect political change. Although it is "still early days" in understanding at what point social media can be said to have affected social change, it is now clear that "disciplined non-violence [which brought down Tunisia's Ben Ali] doesn't come from synchronised turnout"."Governments have systematically overestimated access to information," Shirky said."They've also systematically underestimated access to each other. Access to conversations among amateurs is more politically inspiring than access to information. Governments are afraid of synhronised groups, not synchronised individuals."The history of print should make us sceptical of the theory that media is inherently political, or even that people are inherently political. Just because someone isn't talking about politics in their spare time doesn't mean they wont turn out in Tahrir Square when the serious business starts."Referring to the image of Egyptian Christians and Muslims, Shirky said: "All politics is local. If we want our country to help the Middle East then it can't tolerate anti-Muslim sentiment here."Asked about his hope for a more globalised, tolerant US, Shirky added: "My fear is that the US may be entering a period in which we retreat from the world. I wish I was more optimistic than I am."
Hammer &amp; TongsGarth Jennings, the film-making genius behind Radiohead's recent video featuring Thom Yorke's wild dancing, is also responsible for lots of other great stuff, most of which is housed on this marvellous site. Alongside producer pal Nick Goldsmith, Jennings made his name with a series of music promos, such as Blur's Coffee + TV and REM's intricate Imitation Of Life, before directing films such as The Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy and Son Of Rambow. Look here for a documentary on Jon Bon Jovi's pool cleaner ("he likes his lilo tight"), the Ali G Show opening titles, the Johnny Vegas PG Tips ads, and a compilation album of bad "on hold" telephone music.VYouAsk This Trucker from VYou.VYou is an addictive if slightly terrifying crossbreed of Yahoo Answers and Chat Roulette. Celebrities, strange folk and regular Joes all have their own page on which anyone can ask them absolutely anything and they respond via their webcam when the mood strikes. As with YouTube, some people have built their own video persona and are on their way to becoming internet celebrities. Ask This Trucker is a lorry driver up for revealing anything from his food tastes to sex life on the road. Elsewhere the Spontaneous Songs page will create a tune for you about anything you choose; I only had to wait a couple of hours for a track about evil octopi. Less popular and looking slightly uncomfortable about the whole ordeal is Piers Morgan.Blog roll: PhotosAdam West promoting Batman TV show found on This Is Not Porn.This Is Not PornRare and beautiful celebrity shots including Spielberg in the mouth of Jaws and Keith Moon relaxing with Ollie Reed.Faded LondonPictures of washed-out adverts, plaques and signs from the walls of London and beyond.The Ponytail PontificationsMusic and nightlife photographer Derek Ridgers with the stories behind his favourite shots.Born This WayLife-affirming photo/essay project for gay adults to submit pictures and tales of their childhood.Photo OpportunitiesHundreds of tourist snaps of the same landmarks layered to dizzying effect.The Daily WeirdPhotographic oddities from newborn elephants to basketball erotica.What we learned on the web this weekThe World Of Playing Cards.About theworld of playing cardsThe epicpoetry of Charlie SheenThe Beatlesinvented the thumbs upandMickey MouseThe perilsof street sportLiza Minnellisays what she's really thinkingOne inevery 13 people on Earth is on FacebookThe anatomyof a spiderWhy theinternet chose catsDavid Cameronhas a "tiny stride angle"No DogAsbo can stop RobodogNot everyoneis gaga over Gaga
Dragon Age 2, PC, PlayStation 3 &amp; Xbox 360At the beginning of a dramatic 10-year story arc, your party of bedraggled refugees arrives at the city of Kirkwall ready to discover their significance in the world. Using an improved version of the conversation mechanism from Mass Effect 2 and battles that demand strategic thought alongside the more usual hack-and-slash technique of repeatedly battering the "attack" button, Dragon Age 2 manages an impressive story to complement its more involved combat. Character development is detailed enough to allow scope for customisation without ever taking over the game, reflecting a masterful simplification of what could have meant spending all your time soldiering through menus. It's also nice to hear English accents from characters who are not moustache-twirling, pointy-nosed personifications of evil.Electronic Arts, £34.99-£49.99Pokémon Black &amp; White, Nintendo DsiPokemon Black & White.Despite being well known for turning kids into glassy-eyed automata, Pokémon actually sets out with the laudable intent of encouraging sharing and social interaction through playground trading and gentle competition. The result is an extraordinarily addictive cocktail of collecting, gradual levelling-up and social play – it's impossible to track down all the monsters without collaborating with friends. The Black &amp; White iterations are the most refined of the series, with healing, Pokémon Centres and Marts combined for greater ease of use, while the ability to fight other players no longer relies on schlepping to a special in-game building first. With fewer Pokémon and a more thoughtful approach to fights, Black &amp; White are fitting continuations of a Brobdingnagian franchise.Nintendo, £34.99 eachTiny Wings, iPhone, iPod Touch &amp; iPadTiny Wings.In Tiny Wings you control a bird whose ability to fly is severely hampered by the physical limitation alluded to in its title. Using just one finger to play, you tap the screen to make your bird plunge like a stone, timing its falls so that they coincide with the right points in the undulating landscape beneath to launch it high into the air. Get points for feats of height and speed and stay ahead of the always-encroaching sunset to win the game. That may not sound terribly entertaining, but its magic is in the feeling of hitting "the zone", seamlessly launching your bird from successive hilltops and soaring fast and high into the sky as a result. So, despite its incredible simplicity, Tiny Wings manages to get its hooks in swiftly – it's appallingly habit-forming and could well be the next uber-seller to follow Angry Birds' path to dominance.Andreas Illiger, 59p
Along with car doors and left-turning lorries, cobbles are one of a cyclist's worst enemies. It was with some dismay, then, that when I moved to Berlin recently, I found my new neighbourhood was almost entirely cobbled. So I&nbsp;scrapped plans to ship over my skinny-tyred road bike and started looking for an alternative.TheVelorbis Victoria Balloonis a good, if pricey, solution. This Danish handmade bike comes with tyres as fat as three bratwursts, which not only make light work of all lumps and bumps, but are also too wide to get stuck in the tramlines that criss-cross the former east of my new city.There is no getting away from the&nbsp;fact that this is a big, heavy, expensive bike – £700 is a lot to spend on something too sluggish ever to transport you very far, very fast. But – and this is a big but – it's both beautiful and indestructible. If you are forced to keep your poor bike out in the cold, this is a model that says, "It's OK, don't worry about me."Often, people with no garage or shed buy the cheapest bike they can, reasoning that there is no point spending much on something that will be rusty come spring. This is a&nbsp;false economy. Cheap bikes rust; the Victoria, with the frame and mudguards crafted from the finest German steel and coated with a special rust repellent, will not.Despite its beauty, the bike has a&nbsp;masochistic streak, as if it is begging to be abused. "I dare you to abandon me outside in the snow," it seems to boast. "I'll be fine." All the important components are hidden from the elements: the three gears are housed in the rear wheel hub and the chain is protected by a guard. The model I&nbsp;tested had a "coaster brake", which kicks in when you pedal backwards, instead of a conventional back brake. With that also hidden away, only the&nbsp;front brake is ever going to suffer the effects of bad weather.The Victoria also justifies its price tag with top-notch components: a Brooks saddle plus saddle bag and handlebar grips, and Sturmey Archer gears, which don't come cheap. It is fitted with the biggest bell I've ever had the pleasure of tinging, as well as an earthquake-proof rack with a nifty hook on it for&nbsp;hanging a briefcase.There is a great dynamo lighting system, too. I also liked the swept-back handlebars, which make for an&nbsp;upright, regal riding position. I&nbsp;wouldn't want to cycle too far on it, but for clattering along the cobbles of Kreuzberg, it's just the job.Velorbis Victoria BalloonPrice£695 for the basic three-speed model with coaster brake; £825 for seven speed freewheel modelFrameSteelGearsSturmey Archer three-speed hub gearsWeight18kgAdded extrasBasket, skirt guard, front rack. Can also be upgraded to include an electric motorIn a wordMasochistic• Bicycle: The Complete Guide To Everyday Cycling, by Helen Pidd, is published by Penguin at £14.99. Buy it from theGuardian Book Shopfor £11.99 (inc UK mainland p&amp;p).
"Bad writing leads to bad thinking which, naturally, ends in totalitarianism," so claimsJon Dahl, founder of video encoding startupZencoder.Dahl's SXSW opener compared clean writing, primarily that of George Orwell, beautiful composition – the "stripped-down minimalism" of the Clash – and good programming. Orwell'ssix famous rules for clear writing, he argued, should be rules of thumb for every coder in the land.Although Dahl couldn't name the finest programming he'd ever seen – could you, on the spot? how about your favourite book? or song? – his point was that unnecessary strands of writing ultimately makes everything more complex."If we consume good writing in other mediums, poetry and good composition of music, that will lead to better programming."Programming is writing. It's taking abstract thoughts and putting them into practice, like a poet or an essayist," he said.The evolution of classical music, meanwhile, shows how simplicity and complexity move in an equilibrium over time. And, like programmers, classical composers "work in an environment entirely unrelated to their end product".Johann Sebastian Bach, writing in a complex Baroque style, then along comes another composer who "throws it away" and you get the more simple, classical structure, with Mozart. Then Beethoven builds on this with bigger, more complex work. Then Brahms, Mahler and others follow."It's the composers – the programmers – who navigate this cycle of simplicity and complexity well who create beauty," Dahl opined. "The core of good programming style is minimalism, expressing really complex ideas in a simple, minimal style. Clear direct writing also enables clearer thinking about what's being written."And like the novelist may spend month – years, even – revising their purple prose until it's fit for the shelves, programmers should always clean up their code.How do you justify constantly revising your code to your investors and VPs, someone asks? "That's simple: Don't tell them."
In case you missed this, Call of Duty: Black Ops is now the best-selling video game of all time in the US. According to figures from market research company NPD Group, the first-person shooter has shifted 13.7 million units since its release last autumn, putting it above Nintendo's Wii Play.It's an incredible achievement for a title that some thought would struggle to equal, let alone eclipse, the success of Modern Warfare 2, the previous instalment in the series. It's also a success that Activision is desperate to capitalise on – in the absence of Guitar Hero, it looks like CoD is going to be a busy cash cow for the next two years, with a Call of Duty action adventure, a freemium online game, Modern Warfare 3anda mysteriousonline digital platformin development.Meanwhile, sales datareleased by Take-Two Gamesshows that GTA IV is closing in on 20m worldwide sales, bringing the total sales of the GTA series to almost100 million copies. Rumours are rife that GTA V is set to be announced over the next few months, especially after details of a Hollywood casting call for a new Rockstar project codenamed Rushleaked out, suggesting a modern-day LA setting. This was closely accompanied by news that Rockstar has registered a number of web domains, including CashForDeadDreams.com, SixFigureTemps.com, StopPayingYourMortgage.net, HammersteinFaust.com and LifeInvader.com – which all sound very GTA. Personally, I was hoping for a UK instalment this time round. Why not the developer's home city of Edinburgh? GTA meets Trainspotting?So big numbers there for two of the mega-brands of the gaming industry. But how do you feel about Activision's FPS behemoth nicking the title from Nintendo's family-friendly Wii vehicle? And will either Call of Duty or GTA be able to maintain this momentum going forward?
More than 300,000 PlayStation 3 consoles that were being stockpiled in the Netherlands can now be distributed across Europe after a Dutch court ruled in favour of Sony.In February, the Korean electronics firm LGwon an injunction against Sonywhich led to shipments of PS3 consoles being seized by Dutch customs officials.The action stemmed from a legal case instigated by LG, which alleges that Sony has infringed patents in the manufacturer of the PS3 console's Blu-ray drive. Meanwhile, Sony isalso taking action against LGfor allegedly infringing its own patents in the production of smartphones.It seems that LG must now pay legal fees of €130,000, a figure that may rise if not dealt with promptly. However, although the seizure order has been lifted by a court at The Hague, LG's patent infringement case against Sony is unaffected and is still going ahead.According to patent news blog, FOSS Patent, the first session in that case has been scheduled for November 18. LG is seeking royalties on every PlayStation 3 console sold so far, as well as all sales going forward.LG wants to receive a patent royalty between $2.50 and $2.55 for each Blu-ray device sold by Sony. Sony has already sold more than 47 million PS3s, and there are other Sony products implementing the Blu-ray Disc standard. In the total of PS3 and other Blu-ray product sales, LG estimated that Sony already owes it patent royalties amounting to $150-180 million for past infringement, plus more money for future sales.The FOSS Patent post also mentions another action by a US-based LG subsidiary named Zenith against alleged digital TV patent infringements by Sony. The console manufacturer also pursuing a legal case against hacker George Hotz, for allegedly obtaining and distributing the PS3 'root key' allowing pirated software to run on the machines.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?Everywhere I go I have to have my iPhone, my iPad, my Flip camera, my Macbook and my Leica digital camera with me. It's a lot to carry around, but every day I feel I need all those things. I'm a big Mac lover, and I feel that the iPhone is one of the best inventions ever.When was the last time you used your iPhone, and what for?About 30 seconds ago, to see a photograph that my husband [Simpsons and Spinal Tap star Harry Shearer] sent to me of him in full costume on a float at Mardi Gras in New Orleans. He looks like a very terrifying clown.What additional features would you add if you could?What else is there, really? I'm on my iPhone all the time, it's genius. I record stuff on it on the go, and I useTube Deluxein London all the time – it's the greatest app. Maybe if I could get my iPhone to do the hoovering for me as well ...Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I hope not. You don't want it to be any smaller because you want to be able to see things on it properly. I have a feeling that it will be wafer thin by then. I kind of expect everything to be obsolete in 10 years, because we can't imagine what will come next.What always frustrates you about technology in general?When I can't get on the internet, then I feel like someone has taken away my sweets, or my drugs. A lot of people probably feel the same way. I have a serious problem with hotels that make you pay for the internet – that's a crime against humanity, and airports are the same.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?There's nothing that I've ever hated that I've bought, because I always buy Macs and I love them. But I don't like reading books on the iPad, or an ebook – it doesn't feel comfortable to me. I iike to have a real book in my hand, and I don't like staring at a screen for that long, ether – it's more tiring for my eyes than watching a film.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Don't be afraid of it, and try not to panic. A lot of people hear the word technology, and they feel scared, but this is a technological age and they'd better get used to it. If I can do it, anyone can.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm a nerdite. I have definite nerd capabilities, but then again when it comes to things like books, I'm a bit of a luddite.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I would say it's the most remarkable concert grand piano that I'm renting for the show I'm in right now. It's a digital hybrid piano –a Yamaha AvantGrand– but it's the closest you can get to a real piano. There's not a string in there, it's purely samples, but as a pianist its a really incredible piece of technology.Mac or PC, and why?Mac. Oh boy, they're just amazing and intuitive. I think they are really great for people doing creative things, and artists and musicians. And they're very straight-forward and easy to get your head around. And they look so beautiful.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I buy CDs a lot. I buys as many physical CDs as I do downloads, because certain things I actually want to see, hold, feel, touch. But I'm not precious about that, because I download enormous amounts of stuff. I do buy most of my DVDS, I don't download a lot of movies. I like to have a physical library. The last one I bought was a box-set collection of Laurel and Hardy – a must-have for any person who has a sense of humour.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?No, no, no … I'll take a human butler any day. Harry is pretty much the butler in my life. I wouldn't be able to relax with a robot butler. A robot dog though, that I could get my head around – I wouldn't have to walk it or anything, it would be perfect.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Right now I'd kind of like to have a high-tech home recording studio, because I just love being in the studio so much.•Judith Owenis co-starring inRuby Wax – Losing It, at the Menier Chocolate Factory in London. She will also be performing an after-show concert at the theatre on Sunday 13 March.
We talk to a lot of developers on a regular basis. There is a growing need to find new business models that allow developers to monetise their ideas, and to provide a sustainable revenue stream.Charging customers to download apps puts a significant barrier in the way of adoption. If overcome, the pay-per-download model only presents the developer with a single-shot, one-off revenue generation opportunity.In-app advertising is an alternative but of course advertising is a volume game, so revenues are only a game changer for the most popular of apps.Where next then for developers?There is a relatively unheralded new opportunity – cloud-based APIs. These can open up the network infrastructure of mobile operators, which has previously been hidden behind complex processes and unfavourable commercial terms. Could these new APIs signpost the way to new revenue opportunities for developers?Simply speaking, mobile operators are beginning to expose their core capabilities, such as SMS text messaging, to developers, encouraging them to innovate with these capabilities, and most importantly, paying the developer for every transaction they create across the API.This allows a developer like Hamish Rickerby ofGlimmer Design, who currently has 11 apps in the app store for both iPhone and iPad, to integrate these new API business models into his current apps.Rickerby's latest app,Text Deck, is a Mac OS app that allows Mac users to simply and quickly send SMS messages from their Mac desktop. In this example, Text Deck is powered by the BlueVia SMS API, allowing Rickerby to directly monetise the SMS traffic created by the Text Deck application. In addition Rickerby has integrated the Google Gmail API, enabling Text Deck to easily import contacts from Gmail into the app so you no longer need to hunt for the mobile number of the person you want to text message."From a developer's perspective these technologies simplify integration and offer access to services previously unavailable," says Rickerby.As well as generating new revenue share opportunities, these new operator APIs are giving smaller developers access to markets they've never been able to reach before.Twitea.meis a service which enables people who do not have a smartphone or a permanent mobile internet connection in their phone or laptop to be in contact with their social networks – such as Twitter and Facebook - through SMS messages.The app has been developed by Arturo Garrido de la Rosa, an app developer from Mexico. His inspiration came from his hands-on experience of the Mexican market where the penetration of smartphones is not as high as Europe or the USA."Keeping in touch with friends, family and colleagues has been made infinitely easier by the launch of services such as Twitter and Facebook," he says. "However, there are millions of people who desire the convenience of connecting to their accounts while on the move but do not own a smartphone or permanent mobile internet connection. Twitea.me fills this gap, enabling people to be connected on the move with their social networks. Because it works with any cellular device, the user only has to register on the Twitea.me site and configure the social networks they want to use through SMS."These new APIs are addressing real developer needs, including offering additional business models, paths to market and network capabilities, which have been traditionally closed off by operators until now.But the upcoming proliferation of new APIs, from mobile operators rather than app store downloads, marks a shift in the way developers need to think about how their apps are designed, right from the initial concept stage.Those that do will find that there are ever-increasing opportunities to achieve direct paths to market and to generate revenue in the way that their innovative, entertaining, and exciting apps truly deserve to.
'I would say I was playing 15 hours a day at the peak," says self-confessed gaming addict Daniel, now 24. "I kind of half block it out because I hated school so much but the worst year I can remember was when I was playingEverQuest. I was 16, and I was getting up at two in the morning and going downstairs on to my mum's laptop to play. I was up until eight, and then I'd get back into bed saying I was ill."Daniel's story is not so different from my own; we were both miserable as teens, and we both played truant in the fantasy world of games. Daniel's attendance fell from 100% in his first year of secondary school to 45% in his last. Mine was less extreme – I would miss, on average, a day a week. In both our cases, every day spent off school was a day spent playing video games.At Widey Court primary school in Plymouth, teacherRichard Gribble made headlinesthis week after conducting a survey of the gaming habits of his class. Of the 26 children aged 10 or 11, he found that over three quarters were playing video games every night, and over a third were playing in the mornings as well. Some were staying up until 4am to play, others waking up at 5am before school. They were, he said, so tired they couldn't concentrate at all. A few were falling asleep in the classroom. Gribble wrote to his pupils' unaware parents urging them to curb their children's gaming time.To non-gamers and parents, I realise, such stories may sound inexplicably extreme. The very notion of a video-games addiction may seem odd, or even laughable. Drugs sure, drink sure, but games? Well, yes. Games are addictive in much the same way that a brilliant novel is impossible to put down, and a well-made thriller has us on tenterhooks from the first scene to the moment the credits roll. An addictive game, in short, is a good game.The figures speak for themselves: since 2008, sales of video games in the UK have outstripped sales of films and music. In 2009, first-person-shooterModern Warfare 2was the biggest-selling item on Amazon,outperforming blockbuster filmssuch as Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince. Even now, though, there is a stigma to being a gamer. As comedianDara Ó Briain put iton stage at the Hammersmith Apollo: "You're not supposed to like video games. It's the largest entertainment industry in the world and we're supposed to not enjoy it."Part of what makes games, and online games in particular, so much more appealing than other media is the fact they are potentially infinite time sinks. Once enthralled by a game we may stay that way for weeks, months, or even years. An online world is a real-life never-ending story, with the player as the protagonist. There is no happily ever after. The only real time limit is the need for the player to eat and sleep, and, in the most extreme cases, even those are ignored. Last month, a 30-year-old Chinese mancollapsed and died after a three-day gaming spree. He had eaten almost nothing, and hadn't slept at all.Not for nothing is Daniel's game of choice, EverQuest, known by the nickname EverCrack. It is what's known as an MMO, a massively multiplayer online game, taking place in a virtual world peopled by thousands of fellow gamers. MMOs are widely regarded as the most addictive games of all. "You can't play for a little bit with these games," he explains. "You have to play for a lot or not at all."Estimates of the rate of addiction among gamers have varied wildly. Figures of 8% and higher have done the rounds, but the true number is likely to be far lower. ProfessorMark Griffiths, director of theInternational Gaming Research Unit at Nottingham Trent University, estimates the real level of addiction at less than half a percent."I've got very strict criteria that I use for video-game addiction: it has to be the most important thing in that person's life. They have to use it as a way of consistently and reliably shifting their mood." An addict, he says, is unable to stop playing even when they know they ought to, with knock-on effects on their work and their relationships. "If you're unemployed with no partner and no kids and from the moment you wake up you play video games, and you play all day, that's not an addiction. Addiction has nothing to do with the amount of time you spend on something. If an addict is unable to play they'll get withdrawal symptoms."Looked at this way, intense gaming – for days, weeks, even months – may well be nothing much to worry about. Simply playing games whenever you have free time doesn't make you an addict, and some people, teenagers for example, have as much as 14 hours of free time a day. So long as you can stop when you have to for school, work, meals, friends and family, intense game playing is just like any other hobby. For a few, though, Griffiths is keen to emphasise, gaming addiction is a real problem. "In the future," he predicts, "it will be medically recognised, and there will be a formal diagnosis."Dr John Charltonis a researcher in the psychology of online games addiction at the University of Bolton. "There are studies," he says, "showing that the physiological bases of these types of addiction are similar to alcohol and drug addictions. The same part of the brain that appears active when people ingest chemical substances are active when people are playing these games."Despite such evidence, the American Medical Association has deemed the condition too new and unknown to be included in theDiagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, the world standard in the diagnosis of psychiatric problems. In the UK, doctors are often reluctant to treat computer-gaming addiction as a condition in itself, on a par with alcohol, drug and gambling addictions. Instead, it is often considered a symptom of some deeper problem."If people have problems with self-esteem or with their relationships with their parents they can use these massively multiplayer online games as a form of escape, just as some people use alcohol or drugs," says Charlton.His words struck a chord with me, and would likely do so with Daniel as well. For both of us, when our gaming was at its worst, we were deeply unhappy with our school life. My unhappiness was, at least in part, the product of low self-esteem. Gaming was a place where I could be anyone, do anything – save worlds, win wars, score a goal in the World Cup final; in short, be a hero, instead of a lonely and unpopular teenager.More than that, the world of games was safe – a place where nothing and no one could harm me, where I could die only to be reborn a second later, and I was always able, given time, to triumph over my enemies. It was a world I could fully understand and control, in marked contrast to the chaos of being a teenager, with a home life ripe with conflicts I could neither escape nor resolve. In the case of my teenage self, and, I suspect, in the cases of many addicts, the world of the game was a private and unassailable refuge from a seemingly hostile world.Perhaps then we shouldn't be surprised that addicts themselves are rarely the ones who seek help. Though Charlton is an academic and not a psychiatrist, he is often approached for advice and guidance. "It's not really the people who are addicted that tend to phone up, it's the people around them. I say: 'Have you tried your GP?', and they say: 'My GP doesn't want to know.'""There's no one we can go to with it," says mother-of-two Tina White (not her real name). Her 16-year-old son has been a gamer since the age of six, but in the last year – since he started playing Modern Warfare 2 online with his friends – his obsession has become a serious problem. "We have episodes of violence. He threatened to push me down the stairs, which is very unlike him. He's probably the nicest lad you could meet when he's not playing the game."When not at school he now plays games for up to 12 hours a day. "He really has just become paralysed," says White. "You can't even have a conversation with him if it's not about the game." In her quest for help, she approached social services, doctors and even the police. She was rebuffed at every turn. "It's quite an isolated world, without the help. This is an addiction. And any addiction can break up a family."One of the people White approached was Peter Smith, director of development atBroadway Lodge, a not-for-profit residential addiction care centre in Weston-super-Mare, Somerset. Two years ago, Broadway Lodge became the first UK clinic to offer treatment specifically for computer-gaming addicts. "Currently," he says, "we are getting one or two calls a week about gaming."The number of gamers who end up at the centre is fewer still. Part of the reason is that residential treatment costs money; whereas drug and alcohol addicts are often granted assistance with their care costs, there is no statutory funding for those with gaming problems.In some ways this makes sense. Drug, alcohol and gambling problems can leave addicts bankrupt, but most gaming addictions are remarkably cost-effective; after splashing out for the console and the game, the monthly costs, if any, are usually just a few pounds. It is far harder to see and understand the damage wrought by an addiction that consumes only time. It is nonetheless important that we do, and that, having acknowledged it, we look for ways to treat victims, rather than simply pouring scorn on gamers and game-makers.The blame game is of little interest to Peter Smith. Video-game designers are, after all, just trying to make good entertainment. "There's no point," he says, "producing a game that somebody doesn't get grabbed by. It's a big, big industry and it's about getting people hooked into it."Families, he says, must accept some of the responsibility. "The problem is at least partly of our own doing. Children upstairs in their bedrooms playing on the computer has been manna from heaven for parents. What we haven't realised until it's too late is that actually they have been playing on these things to the detriment of their homework, of their socialising and of their health."Early exposure is a common factor among sufferers. Daniel started aged seven. "The first console I got was an Atari Jaguar," he says. "Ever since then I've played games a lot. Before that I don't even remember what I did, probably a lot of drawing and Lego." I remember as a six-year-old begging and yelling for my mum to buy us a Sega Megadrive, spending hours fighting knife-wielding punks inStreets of Rage, and saving up for months to upgrade to a PlayStation three years later. I can remember very few times I spent pocket money on anything other than games.It was this exposure that gave later games such a powerful hold on me; experience had made me good at them, and being good made them reliable sources of self-esteem. Games were the one place as a weedy, nervous teenager that I could, as I would have said then, kick ass. It is hardly surprising that non-gamers and dabblers rarely see the appeal. I was never addicted to hearing the words: "You lose." As a teenager I kept going back because, unlike how I felt in life, in the world of games I was a winner.Now I go back to games for altogether simpler reasons. I play them because they're brilliant — exhilarating, rewarding, gripping – and just about the most fun you can have on your own. The proportion of gamers who become addicts may stay roughly constant but as games get better and better, and more and more people discover them, the quantity of addicts in this country is sure to rise."This problem is going to get bigger and bigger," says Smith, and, as it does, more money will be needed to deal with it. He is sceptical about the government's ability to find such funding in straitened economic circumstances. Leadership on this issue will need to come from the industry. "We would like them to come and talk to us. We are not saying that gaming is not a good thing, we are not saying there's anything wrong with gaming, but there is a very, very small percentage of people who are getting into problems, and would value some help." In other words: don't hate the game, help the player.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
iPad magazine sales have often failed to live up to their early promise, but Condé Nast Digital Britain is nevertheless upping its investment in bringing its publications to Apple's tablet.The publisher announced on Friday that Wired UK will release monthly app editions for iPad starting with its May issue, with British GQ making its tablet debut on the App Store with its July issue. Meanwhile, Vogue UK is to receive more "special edition" iPad issues throughout the year.The Wired and GQ apps will be overseen in house at Condé Nast, with GQ editor Dylan Jones and creative director Paul Solomons closely involved in the latter. Vogue UK's app will be produced in partnership with Spring Studios and Six Creative, following the one-off app of the magazine's December 2010 issue last year."Our Wired and Vogue December issue apps were a first toe in the water of our digital future on tablet devices," said general manager Albert Read. "They were admired in the market and sold above expectations."Condé Nast says that the Wired issue sold more than 8,500 tablet issues, while Vogue sold more than 7,500. Read expects both to top the 10,000 mark eventually, though. Earlier this year, Condé Nast also experimented with a "cover exclusive" spin-off iPad app featuring Lady Gaga.For now, the publisher is focusing on iPad and iPhone only, although its thoughts are turning to other devices such as the raft of Android tablets about to go on sale, and RIM's BlackBerry PlayBook. "Yes, we're looking at other platforms, though nothing to release at this point," Read told Apps Blog.For now, the pricing model will remain one-off purchases, too. Apple's recently introduced subscription billing system is also on Condé Nast's agenda, but only if the terms are right, according to Read. "We're in discussions with Apple in the US about how we might reach a subs arrangement that suits both sides."The publisher will also launch 21 iPhone apps across seven of its magazine brands this year, including GQ, Glamour, Vogue and Wired.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBing.com searches increase 5% [in ratio] in February 2011 &gt;&gt; Experian Hitwise" Google accounted for 66.69% of all U.S. searches conducted in the four weeks ending Feb. 26, 2011. Bing-powered search comprised 28.48% of searches for the month, with Yahoo! Search and Bing receiving 14.99% and 13.49%, respectively. The remaining 69 search engines in the Hitwise Search Engine Analysis report accounted for 4.68% of U.S. searches."Slightly more interesting: "success rate", where a search leads to a website visit, is higher on Yahoo than on Bing (which ranked second) or Google. But wait, Yahoo search *is* Bing. How does that work?Mobile Trojan mimics Android clean-up tool &gt;&gt; The Register"Google pulled the [malware-infected] games from the marketplace. That stopped further infections from spreading but failed to help eradicate the infection from already compromised handsets; hence the decision to push an over-the-air update (theAndroid Market Security Tool).&#10;"But sneaky VXers have developed a backdoored version of this clean-up tool, dubbed Bgserv-A by security firms, and released through third-party Android marketplaces. Bgserv-A lifts the IMEI and the phone number from compromised handsets, uploading this information to a remote hacker-controlled server (much like the original Trojan). Analysis suggests that Bgserv-A is targeting users of Google's smartphone in China."Actually, it's worse than that: there are other backdoored apps, including one for hotel reservations. All seem limited to China - which is now becoming the go-to country both for PC and smartphone infections.LinkedIn: Polls: Will you continue as a Nokia user when Nokia switches to Windows Phone 7?Ends on April 1; you need to be a member of LinkedIn to see it in full (with the comments). At present the "Somewhat or Very unlikely" groups (601, or 41%) are edging it on the "Somewhat or very likely" (580, 40%) groups. Unsure: 20%.Notable: so far, the "very unlikely" are more likely to be younger.10 million a magic number for Microsoft's Kinect &gt;&gt; CNET News10m makes it the fastest-selling piece of consumer kit ever (though some doubters are saying that's just "shipped to retail" rather than "bought at retail").Along with that, 10m Kinect games sold. (Is that paid-for or "transacted along with the Kinect"? Again, unclear.)But: the slowdown in numbers is interesting too. Will it get another bump next Christmas? Will there be the games to make it really worthwhile?Or will Microsoft figure out a way to make it an indispensable input device for PCs? Now that would make sales explode.Apple retakes World's Biggest Computer Maker Crown after 3 decades - with power of iPhone, iPad and Touch &gt;&gt; Tomi AhonenNever one to shrink from a controversial opinion, the ex-Nokia executive classes smartphones as computers, and puts Apple narrowly ahead of Nokia.Don't argue, either: "And for those who argue that a smartphone is 'not a proper computer' - please don't bother to argue that point here anymore. It is no longer worth arguing, if HP, Dell, Acer, Lenovo and Toshiba - the 5 biggest PC makers - all agree that smartphones are computers. I am happy to have comments here, but those postings that try to argue that smarthpones are not computers, they will be mercilessly removed. That train has left the station and I won't bother to reply to those. If the big computer makers think so - go argue with them haha, not me here. I only report the numbers for you."The iPad 2 &gt;&gt; Daring FireballJohn Gruber reviews the iPad 2: "Most of the 15 million original iPads sold to date do not need to be replaced by iPad 2s. That's not a problem for Apple, nor a failure for the iPad 2. A $500-800 device should have a useful life that is longer than a year. The same is true for all Apple's products: iPods, iPads, iPhones, and, of course, Macs. Anyone who argues that the iPad 2 falls short because it doesn't offer enough to get current iPad owners to upgrade is missing the point. Apple's target is not the 15-20 or so million people who've already bought a tablet. They're looking at the hundreds of millions of people who haven't yet, but will soon. The year-over-year delta between Apple products is almost always noticeable but seldom dramatic."Also includes lots of benchmarks. (He even got a game developer to write a custom app to test its speed.) The irony is that Gruber, whom many people see as an Apple 'fan', has written a dispassionate review.New iPad Appeals More to Emotion Than Reason &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comDavid Pogue gets to the core of the iPad's appeal: it's about the experience, not the technical specifications."And if you thought there was an intellectual/emotional disconnect before, wait till you see this thing.&#10;"On paper, Apple didn't do much. It just made the iPad one-third thinner, 15 percent lighter and twice as fast. There are no new features except two cameras and a gyroscope. I mean, yawn, right?&#10;And then you start playing with it."The iPad 2: Better Design, Speed and Power, but Cameras Are Mediocre &gt;&gt; WSJ.comWalt Mossberg struggles to find negative things to say about the iPad. Battery life not quite as good. Original iPad owners can stand easy. Then again... "It never crashed in my tests, unlike every Android tablet I've tested."Apple Safari, Microsoft IE 8 Hijacked by Hackers at Pwn2Own Contest &gt;&gt; eWeek.com"Pwnd! Safari on MacOS X and Internet Explorer 8 on Windows 7 fell in the first day of the Pwn2Own hacking contest at CanSecWest.&#10;"Despite the last-minute update from Apple, Safari was the first to be cracked by security researchers on the first day of the Pwn2Own hacking contest."Continuing Safari's 100% record of getting cracked in the first day of its appearance at the conference.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
The UK's most tangible example of how, contrary to the opinion of a swathe of the population, video games can be a force for good, is now up and running. The Accessible Video Games Centre, in Witney, Oxfordshire, was created bygames charity SpecialEffect, whose mission is to enable the severely disabled to access videogames and leisure software.The new centre acts as a drop-in hub, which the disabled can visit to try out SpecialEffect's adapted computers and consoles (which, for example, can be controlled by eye movements).SpecialEffect director Dr Mick Donegan said: "The SpecialEffect charity already helps a wide range of people with disabilities to discover how to use specialist technology through its website, roadshows, working with hospitals and home visits. The only thing missing was a central hub for people to visit."Eagle-eyed politics-addicts may notice that Witney's local MP is none other than David Cameron and, sure enough, the PM attended the launch, saying: "The work of SpecialEffect brings together three things that I am passionate about: helping those with disabilities, the innovative use of technology and corporate social responsibility."I began supporting SpecialEffect when I attended their launch in 2008 and I've been continually impressed with their commitment to helping disabled people. This new centre will enhance the quality of life for some of the most severely disabled people across the UK and I will continue to support SpecialEffect as their local MP. It's also good to see SpecialEffect working so closely with the UK's video games industry – it's a great example of how even a small input from business can help support the fantastic work that SpecialEffect do."Cameron, of course, had a son, Ivan, who suffered from severe cerebral palsy and epilepsy, and died aged six in 2009. With a young family, he is likely to be acquainted with Nintendo's Wii, and would undoubtedly cite the Accessible Video Games Centre as an example of the "big society" in action.Andy Payne, chairman ofUK games industry charity GamesAidand of UK games publishers' body UKIE, said: "Working with video games charity GamesAid, SpecialEffect have reached out to the video games industry and generated a huge amount of interest and support. Their use of the latest technology and commitment to developing bespoke equipment allows disabled people of all ages to interact with their peers on a completely level playing field, via the medium of video games. The video games industry often wrongly gets a bad rap. However, video games can have many positive social, cultural and health benefits and the work of SpecialEffect shows just a small part of the good work the video games industry does to improve people's lives."SpecialEffect caters for a wide range of disabilities, showcasing and helping to develop a number of different accessibility controls for computers and consoles such as eye-tracking and head movement-tracking.The charity's patron Matt Hampson said at the launch: "Following my rugby injury, I was totally paralysed. SpecialEffect's support adapted a computer that I could operate just by moving my head. This not only had a massive positive impact on my leisure time but I also believe it helped to build up my neck muscles, too."Like me, many other people with disabilities are interested to find out about the benefits of games and leisure technology for socialisation, rehabilitation and, of course, fun. Now they drop into a friendly centre and can see what it can do for them."•For more information head toSpecialEffectsandGamesAid
Free trials of Windows Phone 7 games appear to be paying off for developers, according to figures from Microsoft on the success of the try-before-you-buy mechanic.Paid apps with built-in trials are downloaded 70 times more than paid apps without that feature,according to a blogpost this weekby Microsoft's senior director of Windows Phone product management Todd Brix."Trials result in higher sales," he added. "Nearly one out of 10 trial apps downloaded convert to a purchase and generate 10 times more revenue, on average, than paid apps that don't include trial functionality."Note, Brix is talking about apps, but games are the app category most likely to be making use of Microsoft's trial API. It's not a new idea for the games industry, of course. Sites such as RealArcade used to thrive on offering one-hour trials of casual games before asking players to stump up to continue playing.Brix says that Windows Phone 7 users are making their minds up quickly whether an app or game is worth paying for, based on trials. "More than half of trial downloads that convert to a sale do so within one day, and most of those within two hours," he writes, while warning that apps do better or worse depending on their "quality and nature".There's an interesting contrast to be made with iOS and Apple's App Store here. Recently, Gameloft – one of the largest mobile games publishers across all platforms – launched two new iOS games using a similar trial model.Sacred Odyssey: Rise of AydenPlayers downloaded the full versions of Sacred Odyssey: Rise of Ayden and Starfront: Collision for free, but after playing a little way through the game were prompted to pay via in-app payment. Within a month,both had been relaunched on the App Store as paid games, with Gameloft referring in a statement that "feedback from many players, who did not feel comfortable with the new free model with in-app purchases".It's quite a contrast with Microsoft's positive stats. A cultural difference between iOS and Windows Phone 7 gamers, or simply a sign that these specific Gameloft games weren't quite right for the trial treatment? Post your thoughts – and your experiences with trial mechanics – in a comment.
Finnish mobile game developer Roviohas announced a $42m funding round, led by Accel Partners and Atomico Ventures. It says the funding will be used to continue expanding its Angry Birds franchise, while also developing new titles.The funding will come as a surprise to the industry, given Rovio's claim this month that it has made more than €50m (£43m)so far from Angry Birds games and related products.However, CEO Mikael Hedadmitted on-stage at the LeWeb conference in Paris last Decemberthat Rovio was in discussions with potential investors. "There is a lot of interest, it's good to have those kind of talks, but for now we've been keen to build our own business and see where we get to," he said at the time.The company appears to have got to the point where it feels investment is necessary to fuel its ambitions. It is planning to launch Angry Birds on Facebook in the coming weeks, and on consoles later this year.Rovio's executives have also talked regularly of their desire to make an animated film or TV series based on the franchise. The $42m injection may be used to produce that content in-house rather than relying on signing a partnership deal.The developer famously made more than 50 mobile games before striking gold with Angry Birds on Apple's App Store. The game has since gone on to notch up more than 75m downloads across all smartphones, exploring different business models including ad-supported and in-app payments.In a profile by Wired Magazine this month, Rovio's marketing chief Peter Vesterbacka made no secret of the company's ambitions for growth this year."We're building an integrated entertainment franchise where merchandising, games, movies, TV, cartoons and comics all come together, like Disney 2.0."Look at how Disney got started: Steamboat Willie created Mickey Mouse, then they added more characters. You can see the same pattern today, but everything is happening much, much faster."
I used to send and receive zipped pictures by email without problems using Windows XP. When I switched to Vista, however, the first time I wanted to unzip something, the computer produced a list of installed programmes and asked which one I wanted to unzip the file. As I did not have the faintest idea, I ticked the first one on the list, which happened to be Adobe Reader 9. As a result, I received then and ever after, a message saying Adobe 9 cannot open the file. I've tried countless ways to change this without success. I have been told that Vista has "associated" zip files with Adobe Reader and I cannot find any way to effect dis-association. Help! If I escape, what programs would open zip files in future?Michael DavidFiles were originally zipped and unzipped using PKZip, a program written by the late Phil Katz (PK) in 1989. This file format became popular and it was "given freely into the public domain", so lots of other companies used it. In 1998, Microsoft built zip file support into Windows to offer "compressed folders", which would enable users to store more files on their hard drives. This was useful without being powerful enough to stop users who wanted a more sophisticated zip program from buying an alternative, which might lead to further anti-trust lawsuits.With millions of programs using hundreds of file formats, some Windows XP users started to use the properties sheet for file associations. You can see this in XP by opening Windows Explorer, clicking Tools, selecting Folder Options, then going to the tab marked File Types. This lets you change a file association to a different program, should you so wish. The catch was that, because the zip function was built into Windows, there was no separate program for zip files. You hadn't installed a zip program in Vista so, I presume, you couldn't find an entry to use.In Vista and Windows 7, the properties sheet has been replaced by a Control Panel utility: select Default Programs and choose the option that says "Associate a file type or protocol with a program". Alternatively, you can right-click on a zip file (or other file), select Properties, go to the General tab, and click the Change button to change.The list of file associations is stored in the Windows registry, and since Windows depends on it, it's generally not a good idea to change it unless you know what you are doing. However, it is possible to change the registry by using simple text files that have a .reg file extension. There are lots of these files on the web.Winhelponline.com has two useful pages devoted to reg files that anyone can download. There are separate pages coveringFile association fixes for Windows VistaandFile Association Fixes for Windows 7. The Vista page includes fixes for 39 different file types, including avi, gif, html, mpeg, vbs and zip.All you have to do is download and save zipfix_vista.reg, right-click on the file and select Merge, then restart your PC. (You will need to be an administrator, or Vista will not allow you to change the registry.)Alternatively, Windows Annoyances has a page:How do I turn off Compressed Folders (built-in support for ZIP files) in Windows Vista and XP?This has files for turning Vista's zip support on (vistazip.reg) and off (vistaunzip.reg). Probably more people turn it off than turn it on.In the end, however, you will probably be better off installing a separate program. Most of these can handle a wide range of different file compression formats, including RAR, ZIP, CAB, ARJ, LZH, ACE, TAR, GZip, UUE and ISO, and will offer to set up the file associations for you. Corel's WinZip has historically been popular on Windows, but there are many free options includingPeaZip,7-ZipandIZArc. I'm not sure there is much to choose between them for most purposes, and personally, I preferWinRAR.You should also appreciate that there is not much point in zipping individual jpg images, because these are already highly compressed in a "lossy" format. The main benefit is that you can drop a number of images into a zip file or (in Windows) a "compressed folder" then send them all together as a single file. This is usually quicker and more reliable than adding numerous image files to one email.Against that, image files are now a lot bigger than they used to be, and it's not unusual for cameras to produce jpg images that are 4MB to 6MB each. A bundle of images can become too large for some mail services, and will add to the strain on company mailboxes. Users are therefore finding other ways to share photos, including Facebook, Flickr, Photobucket and similar services. If you use the Windows Live suite, which replaced Outlook Express in Vista and Windows 7, then you can easily use Microsoft's free 25GBSkyDriveto share files and photos. SkyDrive lets you create folders and specify whether they are available to "Everyone (public)", "My network", "Just me" or "Select people". You can send links to pictures via email, and SkyDrive also works with Windows Phone 7 mobiles. It makes a lot more sense than emailing large files.Another alternative is to use one of the file upload sites such as YouSendIt, RapidShare, FileFactory, MegaUpload and so on. There seem to be dozens. In the past, I've usedMultiUpload. You upload your large file to this single site, and the recipient can download it from half a dozen sites (RapidShare, MegaUpload, Depositfiles etc), so they can pick the one they like. This is useful now that some UK internet service providers, including BT, filter traffic to some file download sites, rendering them more or less unusable.If you are uploading files to one of these public repositories, you should use your zip program's password protection feature to keep the contents private. Also, avoid giving the zip file an attractive or even a comprehensible name.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
There's no doubt about the star of the recent Game Developers' Conference (GDC) in San Francisco: Nintendo's 3DS handheld console. The company's stand, equipped with demo 3DS units running many of the launch titles, was constantly mobbed, Nintendo's president, Satoru Iwata, delivered the conference keynote and for the first time, the man in charge of creating the 3DS, Hideki Konno, faced the press. Our own Steve Boxer was the only UK journalist to be granted an interview with the man who is essentially the father of the 3DS.Konno has been at Nintendo for 25 years, and is one of the company's top games developers. After cutting his teeth on Ice Hockey for the NES, his CV includes director credits for Super Mario Kart, Mario Kart 64 and Luigi's Mansion, and producer credits for Nintendogs, Mario Kart DS and Mario Kart Wii. He is also producing Nintendogs + Cats for the 3DS.Wry and self-deprecating in person, Konno discussed in detail how the 3DS took shape, how it realises the vision of the company's near-mythical former president, Hiroshi Yamauchi, and how it represents a third bite at the 3D cherry for the company. Plus he filled in many remaining blanks surrounding the 3DS, such as how the screen works, what its Spot Pass service will include and what its eShop, due to be introduced via a post-launch update, will be like.Steve Boxer:You gave the impression that you were almost surprised when Mr Miyamoto asked you to oversee the creation of the successor to the DS, given your background in software creation. Can you describe the very beginnings of the 3DS?Hideki Konno:I'd just finished Mario Kart for the Wii, and while I was doing a few other things, I was still in that period of relaxation when I was looking at the upcoming schedule, at what I was going to do next. Then Mr Miyamoto said: "Hey, you want to come over here and chat to me for a few minutes?" He showed me an early prototype of what we now call Nintendo 3DS, and said: "We're working on this new portable console, and I'm wondering if you'd be interested in taking on the producer role for the entire project?" I have to say it's something that I'd always been interested in doing – I'd worked with Mr Miyamoto and I'd seen him doing things similar to this before. But to be honest, I was surprised, because while I was interested in it, I didn't think that he would be coming to me and offering me this chance.SB:With your software background, what were the biggest challenges you found, and how did you have to change your mindset when taking on a hardware project?HK:The main thing is that when I was asked to do this and I agreed to it, I wanted to take the experiences I had as a software developer and apply them in a meaningful, useful way to the hardware. Street Pass is an example of this – it's something I had worked with previously on Nintendogs on the DS – adding that interaction through Bark Mode. I thought this time, it was something I would want to be used a lot, so I wanted to put it actually in the system. That really changed what we were planning with the hardware right away.With Nintendogs' Bark Mode on the DS, the user was required to do things like put the game in sleep mode, but this time around, with the 3DS, you close it, and everything pretty much goes into sleep mode. But the CPU is still running at full power, so it's able to go out and search for Street Pass data. We couldn't do that with Nintendo DS, because it just didn't have that CPU power. So taking some of those ideas I had from the software side of development, and presenting them to the hardware team, discussing them and getting their feedback, it was the first time I was able to take some of those ideas and really implement them into hardware development.SB:When did you first realise that glasses-free 3D was possible? Because you said that following less-than-successful previous 3D forays from Nintendo, such as the Virtual Boy, there was some resistance towards stereoscopic 3D within the company.HK:You're exactly right. During the NES period, in Japan, we actually released a 3D title that required goggles. And we also had Virtual Boy – unfortunately, neither of those went as well as we had hoped. What we learned from those experiences was that making it necessary to have glasses on your face to experience 3D wasn't a good match. It didn't look good and, whatever the reason, it didn't work out. Of course, technology is constantly improving, and the technology arrived that gave us glasses-free 3D, like on this LCD screen you see here. We are constantly searching and looking at all the different technologies out there, and trying to figure out if there's anything we can use to make our products better, more interesting and more engaging. We realised we were developing a portable handheld system and we had this glasses-free 3D technology, and since we had never abandoned the idea of using 3D, we thought: "Wow, it's here: the chance has finally arrived."SB:But you felt you had to make prototypes showing the 3D and different elements of the hardware, which you pushed around the Nintendo building on push-carts, to demonstrate to people that it worked?HK:Truthfully, we had had the NES experience and Virtual Boy. There's a proverb in Japanese which translates something like: "The third time is the actual one" or "The truth emerges the third time around". But even though we had that proverb, it wasn't enough. We had to show them something to get them to believe that yes, we can do this. You know, if you have a couple of non-successes and you stick to your guns and want to try a third or fourth time, I don't think there are a lot of people out there who do that. But if you do, you're going to have to bring some proof to the table. But Mr Iwata and Mr Miyamoto still had this idea of 3D.Mr Iwata makes these videos which go online called "Mr Iwata asks". In one episode, there is a conversation between Mr Iwata and Mr Miyamoto, in which they are talking about the former president of Nintendo, Mr Yamauchi. In relation to 3D, he said to them: "This is going to take off some day." So maybe that provided some of the impetus for them never giving up on it. Actually, when I first started at the company, I was always the demo guy, called on to demonstrate new technology to people, and Mr Yamauchi was always interested in seeing new 3D technology.  I remember coming to him with books that came with the red and blue glasses, and Mr Yamauchi sitting and looking at them, so I also have that experience.SB:How does the screen work – is it effectively two screens on top of each other?HK:It uses a parallax barrier. It's too technical – I can't really get into it – but basically, you have an image which is created for the left eye and another for the right eye. The parallax barrier separates the images and makes sure that each eye is getting the image it is supposed to, and adjusts that – it's called stereopsis.SB:So what does the 3D slider do?HK:Basically, it turns the parallax on and off first of all – all the way down, you have a 2D image. Basically what happens with the 3D depth slider is that it adjusts the image within the software itself. If you go to a 3D movie and it doesn't quite match up right, the 3D depth slider allows you to move those images around until you get what we call the sweet spot. It's not really doing anything spectacular; it's just making slight adjustments to those images. Really, it's not that difficult, it's just that people haven't done it – they could have put it in other 3D implementations.SB:What precisely does 3D bring to gameplay – you can see how it could help depth-perception when, say, playing a sniper game, or could help with the sense of speed in a driving game?HK:To sum it up really simply, it makes it easier to perceive distances more accurately. So that's depth, width and height: they all become easier to grasp. For example, in StarFox, there's the mode where you're flying through rings: on a 2D screen, sometimes that's hard to do, because you can't understand how far one ring is from the other. But now, with the 3DS, it's easier to see where they are. Also, with a golf game, you can see how the green undulates much easier – because that's so hard to do in 2D, usually in a golf game, when you go into putting mode, you'll get that grid; with 3D, you can see that yourself.SB:At the moment, it's difficult to visualise exactly what Spot Pass will provide. Can you give some examples of what it might bring?HK:Right now, we're getting together all the groundwork, so that we'll be able to provide a variety of different Spot Pass services going forwards. For example, if you register your wireless access point within your home, you'll be able to receive information automatically – it will look at your Friends list and if you've already registered certain people, it will say: "Hey, so-and-so is online, this person is offline" and so on. One thing that is really important is that this doesn't require any active steps by the owner – it's all being pushed out to you and is passive and in the background.SB:And that will include a lot of content? Mr Iwata, for example, mentioned 3D film trailers.HK:Of course we do have, as Mr Iwata mentioned, the 3D movie trailers – that's one thing. But also, we'll be able to send out data relating to specific games. For example, in Nintendogs + Cats, via Street Pass, users will be able to exchange data, and that includes snapshots of their dogs, Mii character information, as well as dogs and cats themselves. With Spot Pass, one thing we could do is send out data to everyone who has the game taking the form of a celebrity Mii character and their dog. And this is not just at wireless access points in your home – in North America, for example, we have a collaboration with AT&amp;T, which is providing us with 10,000 wireless hot-spots across the country. So if you pass through one of those hot-spots, just like in your home, data will be pushed out to you automatically – again, it's a passive transaction which takes place in the background; you don't have to do anything other than be within range.SB:Will those be generally available hotspots, or just for 3DS?HK:They aren't special hotspots created just for Nintendo 3DS, they're just hotspots.SB:Hopefully, we'll get those in the UK, too?HK:That's our hope, too – we don't have any details about that, but hopefully.SB:When Nintendo 3DS was announced, you received some criticism for not having an eShop at launch, but instead via an update later in the year. Why was that not available at launch?HK:Let me address eShop specifically. We had a version of eShop on Nintendo DS and Wii, but we weren't really satisfied with what we had. It was a browser-based tool, and the responsiveness and ease of use weren't up to what we had hoped. Another thing was that the actual location you went into to make purchases, and the area you had to access to see promotional materials were two different spots. I think everyone is the same: when you see something you want in a promotion, you want to buy it straight away, and you weren't able to do that. Obviously, we wanted to bring those together, so that's something we are planning to do.In terms of ease of use, we want to take it out of being in a browser, and make it work as a native operating system application. Our thought process was that we really want to take the necessary time to make this into the eShop that we want, and that's what's taking us this amount of time.SB:And I think that either Reggie Fils-Aime or Mr Iwata has confirmed that DSi owners will be able to import their DSiWare libraries into their 3DS consoles?HK:One of the things we will be providing via the update is the tool to take your existing DSiWare library from your Nintendo DSi and import it into your Nintendo 3DS, yes.SB:You talked a lot about your relationship with Mr Miyamoto, and you mentioned his saying, when you have a big task to perform, "Just move the box". What does he mean by that?HK:One thing that Mr Miyamoto is always adamant about is that, if the gameplay just doesn't feel right, there's no point in moving past that and doing a whole bunch of other things. If you look at a lot of designers and programmers, they don't want to present anything to anyone that isn't 100% brushed-up. So they're always saying: "I've got this thing, but I can't show you, because I want to polish it a bit." But Mr Miyamoto is like: "Look, fine, you have all those images of how you want it to look and feel in the end; just keep those in your head. Right now, just get that box moving around, and if it feels nice and if it works, then you can take it and run with it, and we can add this other stuff afterwards."Like, say, for Mario Kart, rather than going and creating all those cool kart graphics, character models and so on, it's a question of: "What's new? What feels nice in the game? What's good about controlling this? Just take a box and give me some controls for it – if all of those controls feel good, that's when you start." Until Mr Miyamoto sees that essential game element which feels like it's going to work, then that's not an official project – it's not going anywhere until that's done. It's just a prototype until you go over that barrier.SB:Are you happy with the developer and publisher support for the Nintendo 3DS?HK:That's one of the reasons why I'm here – this is the Game Developers' Conference, and I want the developers to get a look at the 3DS and hopefully get some really good ideas about what this device can help them realise. If you've got some ideas, even if they are little ideas, but if you work them well and use the Nintendo 3DS to bring them to the marketplace, you could make some money.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamStill no update &gt;&gt; Windows Phone Secrets"I'll try not to get all emotional here, but – WTF? Every day, several times a day, I check my phone to see if there's an update available. When there isn't, I plug it into the laptop, sync via the Zune PC software, and then check there as well. Nothing. 'Your phone is up to date.' No. No, it isn't."iOS 4.3 for iPhone, iPad walkthrough &gt;&gt; TiPbOnly for iPhone 3GS or third-generation iPod Touch upwards. Includes personal hotspot.About the security content of Safari 5.0.4 &gt;&gt; AppleInteresting to see the names and affiliation of many of the contributors of discoveries.A New Name for Stack Overflow (with surprise ending) &gt;&gt; Stack OverflowA new name, and new suitors: $12m worth of company goes to Index Ventures, Spark Capital, and more from Union Square Ventures. Onwards.Kinect Confirmed As Fastest-Selling Consumer Electronics Device &gt;&gt; Guinness World Records Blog post"The sales figures outstrip both the iPhone and the iPad for the equivalent periods after launch."Apple iPads take root at SAP &gt;&gt; silicon.com"Software giant SAP has rolled out 3,500 Apple iPads to staff since the tablets first went on sale in April 2010. "Staff across SAP - particularly the software development and sales teams - are using iPads to remotely access office, SAP and other corporate apps using a VPN and Citrix software. "SAP CIO Oliver Bussmann said: 'We teamed up with Apple to bring a consumer product into a corporate environment - from a security, asset management and application integration point of view.'" That's 3,500 - so far - among the 47,500 staff. They're replacing netbooks and Bussman says it's "essential" for an executive who wants to keep informed. Fad? (Thanks@jforbesfor the link.)The Challenges Facing Windows Tablets &gt;&gt; Steve Wildstrom on TechThe former tech writer for BusinessWeek magazine has a historical perspective: "The sheer bulk of Windows is a problem. A minimal installation of Windows 7 takes 16 gigabytes, the total storage of the smallest iPad. It includes dozens of services, many of which are of no conceivable use on a slate... Windows is essentially a one-size-fits-all product. So in addition to being recoded to run on ARM processors, as promised by Windows chief Steven Sinofsky, Windows 8 also must let tablet designers dump all of that excess baggage. "The user interface is a much bigger challenge. Microsoft's approach to date has been to add support for touch (or pen input) to the standard Windows UI.... But the result is still a keyboard-and-mouse UI with a thin veneer of touch features. Apps specifically designed for touch work well enough on Windows 7, but the truth is that it is hard to work for more than about five minutes without finding yourself really wanting either a keyboard or a mouse."Malvertising, malware and DNS forwarding &gt;&gt; Dasient Blog"Malvertising" (infected adverts) doubled from Q3 to Q4, malware-infected sites doubled in number to 1m, and the probability that the average net user will hit an infected page after three months' browsing at 95%. (A bit unsure about the last stat.) DNS forwarding services are a prime method of abuse.Amazon.com: Customer Reviews: ASUS Eee Slate EP121-1A010M 12.1-Inch Tablet PCIf a single one of these reviews is by a person who has paid for this tablet - which isn't released anywhere - we'll be astonished. Who's responsible for the astroturfing, Microsoft or Asus?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
This summer sees the cinematic return of Lightning McQueen and his four-wheeled friends as Pixar rolls out its much-anticipated (at least by junior petrol heads) Cars sequel. And of course, there will be a video game tie-in, once again courtesy of Avalanche Software, the team behind last year's surprisingly good Toy Story 3 conversion.The movie follows Lightning as he heads off to compete in the World Grand Prix, dragging Mater along in his slipstream. However, the lovable redneck pick-up manages to get caught up in an espionage sub-plot - and much hilarity no doubt ensues.And it's this spy theme that the game seems to centre on. Players are driven into CHROME (Command Headquarters for Recon Operations and Motorised Espionage), where they must train to become super spies, competing in "simulated hazardous missions". In a mix of Mario Kart and Spyhunter, racers get gadgets to blast other cars with and have quests to complete - though it seems all this will take place within a racing game structure.Apparently, players will also get access to a browser-based virtual world, Cars Online, featuring various well-known Cars characters. Rewards gained in the main game can be used to unlock items here - it's an interesting attempt to combine retail and free-to-play models into one; sort of like having your franchise cake and eating it.There's no word yet on the inclusion of a Toy Box mode, the level creation option that was one of the strengths of the Toy Story 3 title.Anyway, here's the trailer, exclusively available here for the day. Get your kids to have a look and tell us what they think.
