William Shakespeare's will is now available to the public to read online, nearly 400 years after the playwright put quill to paper.The historic document, in which Shakespeare famously bequeathed his "second-best bed" to his wife, has been put on the web by the National Archives.The wills of more than 100 other famous figures from the past are also available for the public to view in colour via the web, including William Wordsworth, Oliver Cromwell, Jane Austen, Sir Francis Drake, Samuel Pepys and Sir Christopher Wren.Shakespeare's will is particularly significant because it contains three of the last six surviving examples of his signature.The three-page document was dated March 25, 1616 - less than one month before Shakespeare died - and demonstrates the typical handwriting of the day, including three of the only surviving six examples of his signature, according to the National Archives.It includes bequests to his fellow actors, his neighbours in Stratford and the famous gift of his "second-best bed" to his wife. But as theShakespeare Birthplace Trustexplains on its website, this may not have been a snub: "The best bed, or indeed best of any type of item was usually regarded as an heirloom to be passed to the heir. It is quite possible that the best bed had been reserved for guests and that the second best was, in fact, the bed that William and Anne shared."The will is available for free download as a pdf file on theDocumentsOnlinesite, which is part of the Public Records Office. The other wills can be downloaded for a fee of £3 each.
The technology industry is busy packing its bags, ready to head towards Hannover for the start of the annual CeBit technology fair tomorrow.Hundreds of thousands are expected to attend. Germany's enormous electronics expo is now the biggest of its kind in the world, and although it won't be as busy as it was in 2000 when more than 800,000 attended, this year's week-long event is expected to show a slight year-on-year rise in visitors and exhibitors.The trouble is that Hannover - a city the size of Bradford - is struggling to cope with CeBit as it is. Despite a new metro system and the extension of the fairgrounds, the city will strain to accommodate the 600,000 or so visitors expected this week.The German public may love it, but you rarely hear anyone else speaking fondly of CeBit The show lacks the glamour of 3GSM in Cannes and it is not as newsworthy as Comdex in Las Vegas. It is simply too big, and it tries to cover too much.Of course, there will be a great number of product launches, news conferences and the buzz of  6,000 separate exhibitors from across the telecommunications and IT industries. In its 18 years, CeBit has cornered almost every aspect of technology except computer games, but this is also the problem. Since it spun-out from the Hannover Messe in 1984, the Centre for Office and Information Technology (CeBit) has grown into a monster.The hall dedicated to photocopiers is as big as some trade shows ever get.There have been trade fairs in Hannover since the middle ages, but it is in the post-war years that the city came into its own. In  1947, with the city half in rubble and hardly a hotel left standing, the mayor appealed to the people to provide beds for foreign guests. Enough did and it has since become a tradition. There remains a third more beds in private flats in Hanover than in hotels during the week of CeBit.Which is why Martin Courtney, a seasoned hack with IT Week, had to stay in a German teenagers' bedroom one year. He would awake every morning to posters of Claudia Schiffer and Michael Schumacher on the wall, his host family long gone and a plate of smoked meat and bread left for him in the kitchen. "You felt a bit like an exchange student," he recalls. "I just felt sorry for the poor guy who had to sleep on the sofa."Many other delegates are thrust out to Hamburg and Bremen, exhilarating German cities, but little fun if you have to endure a three-hour round-tip on the train. It is not unknown for some delegates to stay in Luton and fly in every day on easyJet."It's the most hated trade fair in the industry," groans Ann Morris, online editor of Total Telecom. "It's always in March and it's always dreadful weather." In 1987 a massive blizzard nearly caused CeBit to be cancelled, earning it the nickname of SnowBit.As you might expect of a German city, Hanover has world-class facilities. The fairground is the biggest in the world and includes the former site of Expo 2000. Deutsche Messe, the show's owner, is doing its best to make the show more manageable. This year's CeBit is a day shorter than usual and the public will only be allowed in at the weekend. There will also be free public transport throughout Hannover and a pool of motorised scooters to help delegates explore the 27 halls and nearly 500,000 sq meters of the enormous Messegelande.Even a slight rise in visitor numbers and exhibitors at CeBit is a good sign of a resurgent tech industry, but it's a mixed blessing for Hannover. The bigger CeBit gets, the worse it is likely to become.
"A start-up called Onfolio Inc plans to release on Monday a new form of personal information management software that makes it easier and quicker for people to use and share data discovered online. The Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company's software acts as a research vacuum, simplifying the collection, annotation and republishing of information found on the Web or in one's own computer. It bridges the gap between a raw information search on Google or Yahoo and the document filing system of Microsoft Windows," reportsReuters.Comment: Remember you need the .Net run-time.
"Typical of the new breed of 'bloggerpreneurs' is Markos Moulitsas Zuniga, who runs Daily Kos, a liberal political blog. Mr Moulitsas says he initially wanted to keep his blog ad-free, as a way of preserving his independence. But in December, he had to buy new server computers to keep up with growing traffic, and he started taking ads to pay the bills. Business was so good that in three months he was able to double his ad rates. Now, he's bringing in $4,000 a month," reports the Wall Street Journal (paid subscription required)."Another popular political blog, TalkingPointsMemo (www.talkingpointsmemo.com), also began taking ads; now, it brings in more than $5,000 a month, enough for head blogger Joshua Marshall to be able to hire a part-time assistant to help him do research."A company called Pressflex runs a Blogads service to connect advertisers with a network of bloggers, says the Journal: "'They said nobody would want to advertise on personal diaries. Even my wife thought I was crazy,' recalls Henry Copeland, who founded the company in 2002. Now, he has three programmers working for him in Hungary."The article also counts Slashdot (slashdot.org) and Drudge Report (www.drudgereport.com) as blogs.
The EU today took a step closer to a landmark antitrust decision against Microsoft as member states backed a ruling to force the company to strip out audio-visual software from its Windows operating system.The decision followed a meeting of competition experts from the 15 EU states, who approved the European commission's draft decision. The panel is an advisory body which usually follows the European commission's recommendations."I've just been informed that the meeting is over and that the member states have unanimously backed the commission's draft decision," Amelia Torres, the commission's competition spokeswoman, told reporters.Microsoft also faces the prospect of a fine expected to run into hundreds of millions of euros as part of the commission's sanctions against the company. Microsoft is certain to appeal against any EU decision it does not like.The commission is expected to issue its final decision on March 24, but Microsoft was still holding out for an amicable settlement, though this seemed an increasingly forlorn hope."We continue to work actively with the commission towards a settlement," a Microsoft spokesman said after the EU panel meeting.The draft favoured by the 15 member states reportedly gives Microsoft a deadline to satisfy the EU order or face additional action. The commission wants Microsoft to offer two versions of Windows, the operating system used by 95% of the world's computers.One version would have Microsoft Windows Media Player in the operating system, the other would have it stripped out. The aim is to free computer makers to sell Windows with rival audiovisual software such as RealNetworks RealPlayer or Apple Quicktime.Microsoft has insisted that Windows Media Player is built in and removing it would damage the operating system. RealNetworks has used demonstrations at an EU hearing to argue it can be removed.     Second, the draft says Microsoft has given rival makers of low-level servers too little information to compete. As a result, Microsoft's low-level servers, performing tasks such as printing and file handling, work better with Windows.The draft decision says the US firm must share more of its protocols with rivals, charging a reasonable royalty. It will be left to Microsoft to work out the precise solution, with close oversight by the commission.A negative decision would be the biggest blow for Microsoft since a US judge found it guilty of antitrust violations involving internet browsers in 2000. Microsoft reached a settlement with the Bush administration a year later that allowed it to keep its Internet Explorer in Windows, with some conditions.European authorities have taken a tougher line than their counterparts in the US, accusing Microsoft of using its quasi-monopoly in operating systems to ride roughshod over competitors providing alternatives for several applications, including media playing and server software which powers networked computers.By including the Windows Media Player with the operating system, Microsoft enjoys a huge advantage over its rivals. Competitors such as RealNetworks must rely on users to download its software separately, or on manufacturers incorporating the software in new computers. RealNetworks, which has testified in Microsoft's European hearings, recently sued the company for civil antitrust violations.Should the commission rule against Microsoft, the company's first move would be to ask a court to suspend the commission ruling until the case is completed, which could take three to four years and be subject to further appeal.
Are there any Spanish speakers among our audience? I'd be curious to know if technology played any kind of part in the remarkableseries of eventsin Spain since Thursday's bombings in Madrid. There was, clearly, a huge outpouring of grief and anger in the wake of the attacks. What was less expected, at least by the UK media, was the sudden lurch towards the Socialist Party in yesterday's poll. What was the catalyst? Did the Spanish blog world - which,we're told,is well-developed and very active - have any influence? What about text messages? SMS has, after all, played an important role in at leastone revolutionso far. Did a sense of anger at the Government's potentially hasty blaming of ETA find manifestation online and through the airwaves?Clearly, amid such a huge outpouring of grief I'm not imagining personal media played a major role in swinging the vote. But what is emerging, at least to someone sat in London, is that there was a backlash over the government's handling of the aftermath of Thursday's bombings that caught traditional media a little bit flat footed. It would be very interesting to know if the digital world played any kind of role. Anyone got any insight?2.10pm update:Aha -Andrew Losowskyemails to say Boingboing haddiscussionof this recently. Bloggers in Spain reported that protests were being organised by SMS and chatroom. This seems to strengthen the possibility that this tech also then had an influence on the vote itself...
Louise Fergusonnotes that the terror attacks in Madrid used mobile phones as triggers, continuing the age-old tradition of new technology having both good and very bad unintended consequences."The law of unintended consequences is often referred to in favourable terms, with ordinary people finding exciting uses for new technologies. The deaths provoked by the unintended consequences of the mobile phone in Madrid this week demonstrate that technological advance, even involving seemingly harmless artifacts, can also have a dark side."
The stock market's recent wobble has done little to stem the flow of flotations, with several companies expected to announce preparations for a listing this week, including an online financial services provider and the sports brand Umbro.Increased fears of the threat of terrorism saw the stock market drop late last week, but bankers believe investors' appetite for new issues remains high, even for internet stocks.The 36-year-old founder ofmoneysupermarket.comwill become a paper multimillionaire when his internet venture floats after the summer. The company, which Simon Nixon founded almost 10 years ago, is expected to announce this week that it has appointed financial advisers for the move.Based near Chester, the company is expected to raise &#163;75m to &#163;100m in an initial public offering (IPO) that will value the business at upwards of &#163;400m. Mr Nixon, who owns slightly less than half the business, has said he wants to raise cash for acquisitions and to fund expansion into Europe.Doughty Hanson, the venture capital group that bought Umbro five years ago for &#163;90m, is also expected to confirm this week that it has appointed Cazenove to advise on the possible flotation of the sportswear brand.Late last year there was intense speculation that Doughty Hanson was considering selling Umbro, which provides the kit for the England football team. Cazenove is expected to advise the company on whether a trade sale or flotation will provide the highest return.Analysts reckon a float of Umbro, which will gain a lot of publicity through the Euro 2004 championships in Portugal this summer, could raise about &#163;250m.Meanwhile, Investec Securities is understood to have been appointed by the owners of restaurant chain Wagamama to advise on a summer listing of the noodle bar operator, which started trading some 12 years ago. Its owner, Graphite Capital, expects to raise about &#163;50m from a listing of the chain on AIM, possibly as early as June.Today another gastronomic morsel will be presented to investors as PKL Holdings - which supplied the athletes' kitchen for the Sydney Olympics and will provide an even larger facility in Athens this year - publishes its pathfinder prospectus ahead of an AIM listing next month.PKL, founded almost 20 years ago, hires and sells temporary and semi-permanent catering facilities to the public and private sectors. Among its previous customers are 40,000 US marines, who were fed through its mobile kitchens in the Kuwaiti desert last year before the Iraq invasion.The company also has a healthcare business that hires and sells temporary facilities such as operating theatres and recovery wards used by hospitals as they renovate their existing facilities.PKL's business is growing - in the six months to the end of October 2003, it made pre-tax profits of &#163;2.1m, up from &#163;1.8m during 2002. Arbuthnot Securities has been appointed as nominated adviser and broker to the placing.&#183;The maker of Swarfega, the green handwash beloved of engineers, has been bought out by its management from the family of the man that invented the goo more than 50 years ago. Barclays Private Equity said yesterday it was backing a &#163;135m management buyout of the Deb Group of Companies, which is owned by the Williamson family. Alongside Swarfega, the group also owns the Cutan healthcare and Odex catering hygiene brands.
"The whole business of eroticism is to strike at the inmost core of the living being ... to destroy the self-contained character of the participators as they are in their normal lives," Georges Bataille said. And that's why last week's two sex-and-internet stories have been so fascinating. Two women were stripped bare: one intentionally, by selling the weblog of her life as a callgirl to a publisher; and one unwittingly, by pressing the "reply to all" button when sending an email to her boyfriend - within hours her sweet but decidedly down and dirty musings had been read by millions on the internet.In both cases, the media and a prurient public sniffed blood. One of the women - the callgirl - is still anonymous, and in control; the other is not in control, and rather a lot of people know who she is. Poor thing. (I refuse to add to the office worker's mortification by telling you her name.)What is the sniggering allure of her oh-so-private email? Its very normality. We're all at our most vulnerable when it comes to sex; it's the closest we get to revealing our true selves in all our banality, desperation and foolishness. The intrigue lies in the glimpses behind the masks we all wear in our public lives. For the truly erotic isn't about perfection and accomplishment - it's about shedding our protective armour, lowering ourselves, fumbling, being embarrassed.But the intense interest in both the accidental email and the weblog (which had a cult following long before the publisher snapped it up) is also explained by the tension between contradictory erotic forces within women, an ambivalence that's long cast its spell. Freud cherished it in the Mona Lisa, in whom he saw a "contrast between reserve and seduction, and between the most devoted tenderness and a sensuality that is ruthlessly demanding." These 21st-century internet stories are the embodiment of the fantasy of the demure office girl who's a sex goddess underneath. Their fumbling, horny emails, their internet diaries, allow us a glimpse into a woman's secret, dirty world. They're compulsive because this world is usually so hidden.Would men be as humiliated to be unmasked as our poor emailer was and the weblog callgirl is so determined not to be? I suspect not. Men don't have that pesky shame factor to deal with. The recounting of their sexual exploits usually has more to do with bragging - and it's less affecting because of it. Men's office emails never enter internet lore, because they are not seen as real, or vulnerable, but as pornographic - the magic and messiness of interaction between two people is deadened. When her office email was exposed to strangers it revealed an everyday woman's innermost being - and for a woman and a woman alone, that's mortifying.Anonymity, on the other hand, is empowering. All the publisher will reveal about the mysterious callgirl, known as Belle de Jour, is that she's highly educated and in her 20s. At this point, she's utterly in control.Her agent says she'll remain anonymous "to protect her friends and family". I really hope so. I've spent the past 18 months dealing with being outed as the anonymous author of the sexually explicit book, The Bride Stripped Bare, and it's been the toughest time of my life. Already the speculation has begun that Belle's confessions are a publicity gimmick, as it was said of my book. Well, why don't you try writing with ruthless, unflinching honesty about sex - and put your name to it. It's exhilarating if you're anonymous, but highly traumatic if, like me, you're a wife and mother of two little boys, not to mention a daughter of two gently bewildered people in their 60s.Belle and myself are far from unique in finding anonymity liberating when it comes to sex, and the office emailer and myself are not the only ones to feel mortified on being found out. A survey last year in the Journal of Sex Research found women lied more often than men about sex - and their answers changed dramatically when they believed they were answering anonymously. Embellishments under their own names included reducing the number of partners they'd had and lying about use of pornography: the respondents were extremely sensitive to social expectations about how they're meant to behave.Anonymity opens a door to a reckless, exhilarating world where you can be utterly honest as a woman. A lot of us can't face the thought of people seeing us as we really are - for it means we are losing control of the public persona we've so carefully maintained. And we never get closer to the truth of our dark, vulnerable, messy selves than with sex. Perhaps that's why the prospect of unmasking for these two new internet stars - and myself - is so very difficult to bear.&#183;Nikki Gemmell is the author of The Bride Stripped Baremrsnjg@aol.com
"A robot that looks and moves like a caterpillar to help the disabled in the home was unveiled in Britain on Thursday," reportsReuters."The Flexibot, which can clamp itself to specific points on the wall and ceiling, could be used to aid the elderly and disabled with domestic tasks such as shaving, cooking and cleaning. It has three pivots allowing it to move between points and a three fingered hand to grip objects."
"Move over Bionic Man and make room for BLEEX -- the Berkeley Lower Extremities Exoskeleton, with strap-on robotic legs designed to turn an ordinary human into a super strider. Ultimately intended to help people like soldiers or firefighters carry heavy loads for long distances, these boots are made for marching, reportsAP."The exoskeleton consists of a pair of mechanical metal leg braces that include a power unit and a backpack-like frame. The braces are attached to a modified pair of Army boots and are also connected, although less rigidly, to the user's legs."
There were no millionaires created in the Mojave Desert on Saturday, as all 14 teams vying to be the first to guide a driverless robot vehicle through a treacherous 142-mile route and cash in on a $1 million prize sputtered out within hours of leaving the starting line," reportsThe Washington Post."The Grand Challenge ended with more of a whimper than bang as robot after robot succumbed to one malfunction or another. Within 41/2 hours, all 14 vehicles had been withdrawn or were disabled and were being returned to the starting line."The Mercury Newsalso has a report.
"Intel Corporation took a hard line today with the Chinese government in declaring it would not meet China's deadline for adhering to a new standard for wireless computing. Intel, the maker of computer chips, said the new Chinese standard presents serious security issues and would hamper the growth of the emerging wireless industry. The company said it began informing manufacturers of personal computers last week that they may need to find an alternate supplier of microprocessors if they want to keep selling wireless products in China after June 1," reportsThe New York Times."We won't be able to build a part that meets our requirements for quality," said Chuck Molloy, an Intel spokesman. Mr. Molloy added that China's promotion of an incompatible standard is likely to backfire, and has "historically been ineffective.""In May, China announced that foreign makers of computers and microprocessors that want to sell Wi-Fi systems in China would have to adhere to the new Chinese technical standard for Wi-Fi, called WAPI, and work closely with Chinese computer makers on developing for it."According to China'sPeople's Daily: "Insiders analyzed why Intel is unwilling to comply with China's national standard is because it's reluctant to pay Chinese companies the expensive licensing royalties. Under the new wireless standard, foreign companies can only cooperate with the 24 Chinese companies with the encryption technique in order to get authorizations relating to the Chinese wireless technique. This involves the cost of authentication."Comment: China's WAPI (WLAN Authentication and Privacy Infrastructure) is incompatible with the WEP (Wired Equivalent Privacy) security protocol used by the IEEE 802.11 international open standard on which Wi-Fi is based.
"We picked a few of the most popular and well-supported codecs with free or cheap tools available and compressed several test clips with them. What follows is an analysis of four different popular codecs, each at two bitrates, on four different test clips. It is by no means a comprehensive review of all the video options available, but it should be a great help in figuring out what to use to compress video at home," saysExtreme Tech.Only four codecs were tested: DivX 5.1.1, Windows Media Video 9, QuickTime 6.5/Sorenson3 and QuickTime 6.5/MPEG-4."We give the nod to both DivX 5.1.1 and WMV9 -- it all depends on your priorities. If you're going to stick to computers as playback devices, the faster speed of DivX is welcome. If you want to play your stuff on the PDAs, portable video players, and DVD players coming out later this year and beyond, WMV9 has broader industry support and is worth the extra encoding time. Both codecs delivered quite impressive image quality."
What a difference a year makes. Twelve months ago, CeBIT, Europe's premier  information technology exhibition, was in the doldrums. The number of delegates  and exhibitors was down and even a rallying cry from the German chancellor,  Gerhard Schr&ouml;der, failed to lift the pervading gloom.Yet as the IT industry descends on the German city of Hanover for this year's  exhibition, they can look forward to the future with a degree of optimism.  European economies may still be struggling, but many of the signs from the  IT and consumer electronics industries are promising.So what's likely to be raising the temperature in the conference centre's  gargantuan halls on Wednesday? Here's a quick guide to the key technologies.Megapixel camera phonesUntil now, the problem with camera phones has been that even shots taken  on the best quality phone snappers aren't really good enough to keep.Not any more though for Hanover will be awash with mobile phone companies  touting phones with megapixel cameras. While the images these phones take  won't rival even budget digital cameras (they are more analogous to pictures  taken by digital cameras five years ago) they are good enough to saved and  even printed.Phone manufacturers are also souping up the cameras by adding a raft of  features such as zooms, lights and flashes. Whether they improve the images  users take is another matter.The first European megapixel phone, the Sharp GX30, goes on sale later in  the month. It will be followed soon after by a one megapixel phone from  Motorola (the MPX). Sony Ericsson will be delivering its own one megapixel phone (the S700) at the end of 2004. At least one other major player in the phone market  is expected to parade a megapixel camera phone this week.However, the big news could well be the arrival of a phone equipped with a two megapixel camera. Austrian maker Tel-Me, which has had a limited presence in the  UK market, is set to unveil its T939 a Microsoft Windows CE based PDA/phone,  and claims that when it debuts later in the year it will sport a two mega  pixel camera.3G newsAlthough many of the big announcements concerning 3G handset and networks  were made a month ago at the 3GSM exhibition in Cannes, at least one major  European network will unveil its 3G plans at CeBIT. T-Mobile is expected  to confirm a summer launch for 3G services across Europe. It'll be interesting  to see if the network makes any announcements about which handsets it will  be using. It will have plenty to choose from, as CeBIT will feature new 3G  phones from Sanyo, LG, Motorola and possibly Sony Ericsson.Push to talkPush-to-talk technology, which enables mobile phone to function in a similar  way to walkie-talkies - except that users can talk to someone on any network regardless of where they are - is also set to be another CeBIT hot topic.Many mobile phone companies are now coming round to seeing PTT, in alliance  with presence (part of PTT's feature-list which lets you know at a glance  who has their phone switched on and is available to talk) as a key feature  for persuading consumers upgrade to 3G phones.Nokia has already unveiled its PTT phone, the 5140. At CeBIT it is likely  to talk about how PTT functionality can be added to its existing high-end  handsets, and possibly unveil which network it is partnering on developing  as PTT service in the UK to accompany the summer launch of the 5140.Personal video playersHandheld devices that feature a hard disk and LCD screens that enable  users to store and watch video are expected to be big news at CeBIT. Many  Asian manufacturers, who paraded their personal video players at the CES  show in Las Vegas in January, will be in Germany trying to sell their devices.Microsoft is also expected to be major on PVPs, or Personal Media Centres  as it calls the products, showing off devices from Samsung and Creative  a few months before their European launch.Wireless systems for consumersMany companies showed their first wireless home entertainment style products  at CeBIT last year. They will be back this time round with devices that  enable users to watch video and listen to music stored on their PC's hard  disk on their living room stereo or TV. Philips will be displaying a raft  of products under its Connected Planet banner while Motorola is showing  a series of Wi-Fi products including a system designed for a car.In brief ...Synospherewill be displaying its Blue Dock system, which enables a PDA  to work like a desktop PC, in that it can be connected to a monitor, mouse  and keyboard.Siemenswill show off a pen phone that allows users to write letters and numbers  on any surface and enter the data directly into the device.Swissbitwill unveil a Swiss army knife that also includes a USB storage stick.Samsungis expected to reveal a range of new phones.02is planning to launch  several new handsets: no clues yet as to what they will be.
Telewest, the cable operator, said yesterday that losses dropped last year to &#163;272m from &#163;2.2bn and insisted that its fabled "triple play" of broadband, telephony and television is still a draw for customers despite adding only 9,000 new households in the whole of 2003.The company said its complex financial restructuring would not be completed until the second or third quarter of this year, further delaying the possibility of a merger with cable rival NTL.Telewest is trying to put together a deal that will leave shareholders holding just 1.5% of the business while cutting its debt of &#163;5.4bn by &#163;3.5bn.The reduction in losses was due mainly to almost &#163;2bn in one-off charges which Telewest took in 2002 to reflect the declining value of a string of acquisitions it made at the height of the market.Telewest, which is concentrating its meagre marketing resources on increasing its share of the high-speed internet market, has over 450,000 broadband subscribers with seven out of 10 taking the full triple play. "Broadband is our most successful product and fastest growing source of revenue. Bundled with telephony and television, it is proving popular and 17% of our customers now take the full triple play," said acting chief executive, Barry Elson, who took over after managing director Charles Burdick quit last month.Internet revenues surged by 386% in 2003 to &#163;34m, making up for a reduction in television and telephony income. Overall turnover, including its 50% share of its UKTV joint venture with the BBC, was up on the previous year to &#163;1.36bn.But its successful broadband service faces competition in the market. BT and competitors such as Tiscali have recently unveiled cut price broadband services for less than &#163;20 a month.Telewest said that over 1m of its 1.28m cable TV subscribers had been upgraded to digital services. Telewest and its rival NTL are expected to merge by the end of next year in an attempt to take on BSkyB, which has raced ahead in the fight for digital TV subscribers.
Rebel shareholders in Psion were defeated yesterday as investors in the British technology group voted to sell its stake in the mobile phone software venture Symbian to Nokia.The vote was by no means a resounding success for Psion chairman David Potter, who created Symbian five-and-a-half years ago. A third of shareholders voted against the move, which will give Nokia a 63% stake in Symbian and is seen as effectively a takeover by the Finnish group.During a three-hour extraordinary general meeting in London, angry shareholders accused Mr Potter of dumping Psion's 31% stake because he wanted to take a back seat at the parent company. Alastair Ainslie, a member of the Psion shareholder action group, summed up the mood: "I understand what the board are saying - they want to take the money and run."Fellow rebel David Sharman said Psion's paper value had dropped &#163;140m since the deal was announced last month while Nokia's shot up by &#163;2.4bn. "The markets do not believe this is a good deal for Psion. Clearly they believe it is an extremely good deal for Nokia."Another disgruntled shareholder said: "The directors want to confine Psion to the backwaters of mobile technology by abandoning the mainstream where the profits are going to be made in future."Mr Potter retorted that the company had examined all the options and, with floating Symbian out of the question because of Nokia's objections, the board believed it was in the best interests of shareholders to sell the stake for &#163;136m."There is no one more than I who wishes that Symbian could deliver its vision, my vision, as an independent company ... But the responsibility of the board is to reality for our shareholders. This is a hard-headed commercial decision."He rejected the accusation that his intention to take a back seat at Psion had influenced the decision. "This is not being done for my interest ... If I want to step back then I will ... If we need to steward Symbian for 10 years ahead then that should be done."It was not just retail investors who voted against the move. Phoenix Asset Management Partners, Psion's largest shareholder with a 13.5% stake, opposed the sale. Partner Gary Channon demanded to know why the company could not just retain its stake until Symbian broke into profit at the end of the year."It will become increasingly hard for any one shareholder to say the business is not ready for an IPO," he said, pointing out that the venture's existing shareholder agreement gave Psion "a legal route but he &#91;Mr Potter&#93; does not have the appetite for it".Psion will use the cash raised to beef up its Teklogix mobile solutions business. If no such deal can be found it will be returned to shareholders.Retail investor Frank Payer was unimpressed. "It's totally wrong for Psion to be selling out of Symbian, I have no faith in Teklogix or in the management."Wind up the company if you are going to sell Symbian. The person who should sell up is yourself," he told Mr Potter, who has a 12% stake in Psion. "You should shut up and shove off."Despite this outburst, Mr Potter called the meeting "an example of shareholder democracy". Mr Ainslie, however, lamented that "as usual the institutions have taken the safe option. Once again a trophy of British technology has been sold abroad on the cheap."
"A trumpet-playing robot has been developed by Japanese car maker Toyota. It showed off its musical creation at a Tokyo hotel, where the robot played When You Wish Upon a Star on a trumpet," says theBBCreport, which has photos but no sound file.Toyota "hopes to form a robot band to play at the 2005 World Exposition, being held in Aichi in central Japan."
"On Thursday afternoon, a pickup modified by brothers David and Bruce Hall of Morgan Hill to drive without any human intervention succeeded in completing a test course laid out for the DARPA Grand Challenge race Saturday. Team Digital Auto Drive, the full name of the Hall effort, is one of just seven vehicles to finish the qualifying round among a roster of 21 teams," reports theMercury News."This just about guarantees Team D.A.D. will be on the starting line for the 200-mile off-road race from the desert town of Barstow to the Nevada-California border. The vehicles are allowed 10 hours to complete the route, with no humans behind the wheel or intervening by remote control, and the first vehicle across the finish line -- if any makes it that far -- gets $1 million."BBC Newshas more about the race, and more photos.....
"IDG World Expo on Friday will release attendance figures for January's Macworld Conference &amp; Expo, held in San Francisco, Calif. Attendance for this year's show totaled 32,409, compared to 90,473 for the same Expo held in 2003. These numbers reflect a new accounting procedure implemented by IDG World Expo for January's show. According to the organizers, this does not represent an actual decrease in attendees," reportsMacCentral."Prior to Macworld Conference &amp; Expo 2004, [Warwick Davies, IDG World Expo group vice president] explained that attendance was calculated using a turnstile accounting approach. This means that if an someone attended the show on three separate days, they were counted three times for the attendance records. "
BT yesterday announced ambitious plans for new entertainment and communication services designed to boost the take-up of broadband internet access.The company is hoping for five million broadband customers by 2006, but with the two million mark passed last month, Pierre Danon, the head of BT's retail division, admitted "getting to 5m is not going to be a cruise"."What we need is to excite the market to show that broadband can transform the life of consumers."The group plans to take on the pay-TV industry with a new service enabling everyone from broadcasters to local interest groups to supply broadband users with shows and films of DVD-like quality. It has developed a complete digital rights management suite that will allow video to be distributed for a fee, and will announce a number of content partners early next month.BT also announced plans for a broadband telephone service that will allow people to make calls from PCs to other PCs, landlines and mobiles via Yahoo's instant messenger.Internet users worldwide spent 3bn minutes chatting on instant messenger platforms last year. BT reckons that one in 10 of those chats culminated in a phone call and it is hoping its voiceover internet protocol service will capture a slice of that market.There will be a trial of the service in May with a launch in September. While calls from one PC to another using the same technology will be free, calls to landlines and mobiles will be charged. Rival AOL will launch a similar service next month, with Tiscali poised to follow later in the year.BT hopes that broadband, on which the group said it should start making money next year, will help plug the gap left by declining revenues in its core residential telephone business. Speculation that the firm might buy back its former mobile business, MMO2, to speed up this process was quashed yesterday by Mr Danon. "That could cost us several billion," he said. "Frankly, we do not have the bloody money."Hopes that KPN will return with a revised offer for MMO2, after being rebuffed two weeks ago, were also dampened by news yesterday that the Dutch telecommunications group is spending &euro;1.4bn (&#163;950m) buying back shares and debt. KPN added that it is not in talks with MMO2
Telecoms giant BT today unveiled ambitious plans to boost subscriptions to high-speed broadband services, including taking on pay-TV companies with 'video on demand' television shows, including hit ITV series The Bill.Under the proposals, broadcasters and movie studios will be able to deliver a huge library of television shows and films to broadband users at a quality equivalent to digital TV or DVD.Although BT again insisted it would never become a content provider to rival the BBC or BSkyB, it claimed its new BT Rich Media suite of products would make it much easier for broadcasters to offer pay-per-view services to its subscribers.It has already sealed a deal with Fremantle to show episodes of The Bill on a pay-per-view basis and said it had 31 other major deals in the pipeline with UK and US broadcasters in the pipeline.For a monthly fee, BT will handle the distribution of the content and, through its Click &amp; Buy service, charge customers subscription fees or one-off payments to their credit card or BT bill. It said it could also boost the speed of the network when showing paid-for broadcast content so the picture is equivalent to DVD quality.The chief executive of BT Retail, Pierre Danon, said  the monthly charge could be as little as £100 in an effort to persuade community channels, regional services, special interest groups and even local football teams to broadcast over the internet.He insisted broadband lines would eventually deliver video on demand directly to subscribers' television sets. "It is technologically already possible, so I don't see why we wouldn't do it," said Mr Danon.Andrew Burke, the director of online services at BT Retail, said the move would make broadband complementary rather than competitive with pay-TV services from cable and Sky."If you want video on demand you'll be broadband and if you want broadcast TV you'll go to pay-TV," he said.The move ties in with another BT initiative unveiled today, allowing its broadband subscribers to upgrade the speed of their service at any time and, if they subscribe to the basic £19.99 a month product, purchase extra chunks of access.Rather than charging a high fixed monthly fee, BT anticipates slowly migrating its customers to a pay-as-you-go model, where they will pay a low fixed fee plus extra occasional charges to boost the speed of the service to watch films or download software.The flexible bandwidth service is due to begin trials next month and is expected to launch before the end of the year.The move is also a response to increased competition from other internet service providers. Unlike other European markets, where the incumbent telco dominates, BT has around four in 10 connections in the UK, with the rest split between 350 other ISPs.This is fuelling downward pressure on prices and an explosion in services. Tiscali announced yesterday it planned to undercut BT's premium 1Mb service by £8 and offer high-speed broadband access for £29.99 a month. It also launched a new service to match BT's £19.99 offer.BT, which has 2 million broadband subscribers over its lines, has promised shareholders that it will have 5 million by 2006 and said today's announcements were designed to appeal to those who saw no reason to upgrade. Including cable subscribers, there are now more than 3.5 million broadband connections in the UK."This is the second stage of the broadband revolution in the UK and we aim to drive it forward. Today's announcement underlines our determination to continue innovating to ensure broadband develops a 'must-have' appeal for millions more households throughout the UK," said Mr Danon.In partnership with US internet giant Yahoo!, with whom it last year launched the BT Yahoo Broadband ISP, it is also launching a new service called BT Communicator that will integrate instant messaging, email, text messaging and the ability to make phone calls over the internet to any fixed line or mobile phone through a PC.If the call is made to another PC with BT Communicator then it will be free, but calls to fixed line phones and mobiles will be charged at the standard national rate. The service will also allow users to make video calls.Gavin Patterson, the former managing director of Telewest's consumer division who joined BT earlier this year as managing director of BT's consumer and ventures division, said the new innovations would allow consumers to have more choice and flexibility in mixing the broadband services they wanted."In a marketplace with more than 80 million customers you need more than one front to fight on and compete in. There are several dimensions you can combine and in doing so you can provide more focused and targeted solutions to customers," he said.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
"Dave Winer, a fellow at the Berkman Centre for Internet &amp; Society at Harvard Law School who is commonly considered the arbiter of the RSS (Really Simple Syndication) format, proposed on his Scripting.com Web log that the format could merge with Atom, a competitor launched in the summer," reportsCNet."Sam Ruby, an IBM software engineer who launched Atom last summer as a way of bypassing what he and other critics called Winer's de facto control over RSS, appeared receptive to the idea. 'As long as it's under the IETF, it's fine,' said Ruby. 'The IETF has a good history of dealing with personality disputes of all types, and I imagine we'll work through them.'"Winer's post is actually on his Test site,here.
"Setting aside their rivalries to fight unwanted e-mail choking cyberspace, leading Internet companies announced Wednesday they have sued hundreds of people suspected of sending unsolicited junk messages known as spam,"APreports."The legal actions by Microsoft Corp., America Online Inc, Earthlink Inc and Yahoo! Inc represent the first major industry actions under the federal 'can spam' legislation that went into effect Jan. 1. The suits, which are aimed at shutting down the spammers, were filed in federal courts in California, Georgia, Virginia and Washington state."
How much money is enough? The singer George Michael thinks that he has reached the magic figure, whatever it is.The reclusive 40-year-old star has announced that his new album, Patience, his first album of original songs for eight years, will be the last he makes for sale through record shops, because he doesn't need the cash and is sick of the pressures of staying famous.Any future songs he writes and records will be shared with everyone free on the internet.   Fans will be invited to make an online donation, which he will pass on to charity."I've been very well remunerated for my talents over the years so I really don't need the public's money," said George Michael, in an interview with the DJ Jo Whiley on Radio 1."I'd really like to have something on the internet with charitable donation optional, where anyone can download my music for free. I'll have my favourite charities up there and people will hopefully contribute to that."The singer said he thought that his decision was unprecedented for a commercial star, but that it made sense to him."It takes the pressure off to have a collection of songs every so many years, which is what nearly killed me."I'm not pretending I won't be famous any more, but ... if you take yourself out of the financial aspect of things, ie you're not in anybody's chart, you're not making anybody any money, you're not losing anybody any money - believe me, I'll be of very little interest to the press in a certain number of years."George Michael has always had a troubled relationship with celebrity. He launched a long and costly legal battle against his record company, Sony, accusing it of treating him like a "pop slave".His private life has also been painfully rehearsed in public, culminating in 1998 with his arrest for exposing himself in a men's toilet in Los Angeles.The last song on the new album runs: "I think it's over/See, everything has changed/And all this hatred may just make me strong enough/To walk away."
Businesses thrive on information. It's what drives business processes, and what helps keep an organisation flexible and ready to deal with sudden changes in the market.Unfortunately, there's also far too much information, spread throughout a company, in too many different applications and on too many websites - and it's often uneconomical to completely redesign your business systems just to make things a little easier. One solution is to use an enterprise portal to aggregate information and applications, and deliver personalised views straight to your users' browsers.Portals have been around since the early days of the web. Early web portals such as My Yahoo! give users the ability to customise what they see, bringing news and information into a single place. Businesses were quick to follow, using similar technologies to deliver corporate information to users' desktops.The first corporate portals weren't popular. They were hard to customise, and often delivered irrelevant and out-of-date information.Today, things are different. The current generation of enterprise portals have built on the lessons of the past, linking content management, customisable layouts of "portlets" and application integration into a single framework. Instead of containing slowly changing static information, they have become places for collaboration and for managing complex business processes. By aggregating applications and information from all over the business enterprise, portals have become a vital tool for dealing with the proliferation of web applications and sites, a problem that Robert Duffner of BEA calls "web sprawl".BMW has been taking advantage of portal technologies across its UK business. One of its most successful sites is its dealer-facing used car portal. Dealers can use a web form to fill in the details of a used vehicle, and within 12 hours the car's information is on the portal. This includes all the appropriate point-of-sale information, ready to be printed, information that used to take seven days to be delivered to dealers.BMW uses its portal to manage   the details of up to 7,000 used cars, reducing dealer administration overheads. The same portal is also used to deliver car information to third-party sites and publishers.Enterprise portals are best thought of as a hybrid of content management and application server technologies. Capable of delivering a mix of content and applications, they offer a window into business processes and workflow. A well-designed enterprise portal will allow users to customise their view of the world, while delivering the information and tools needed to do their jobs.Plumtree was one of the first vendors to offer companies content-based portals, with personalisation tools to ensure that relevant information and applications were delivered to a user's "webtop". Businesses have realised that their users aren't just information consumers, and Plumtree has since added collaboration and knowledge management tools to its portal framework. Third-party vendors have been using Plumtree's tools as the basis for applications used throughout a business, delivering services that include Sarbanes-Oxley compliance.Aircraft engine manufacturer Pratt and Whitney is using Plumtree's enterprise portal tools to manage its customer portal. This includes a page for each individual engine it has manufactured, with maintenance information and manuals. Some engines will record performance data while running, and this can be automatically uploaded and included in the portal, making sure engineers have access to the latest information.Portals aren't just separate applications, and they're now part of the basic IT infrastructure. Oracle's portal technology is integrated into its application server. While developers can use it to build complex Java-based portal applications, two tools make it easier for business users to add their own services to a portal.Oracle's OmniPortlet is a browser-based tool that simplifies integrating and publishing data from different data sources and web services. A wizard guides you through selecting data sources and layouts. A similar Web Clipping tool can take web pages and web applications and turn them into portal content. This is a live connection to the raw HTML of the original page, making sure your portal will be updated when the page you're using changes.BEA has taken a similar approach, building its portal solution into its WebLogic application server platform. Unlike many portal solutions, BEA has focused on providing a platform that allows organisations to integrate multiple applications, using its portal to aggregate and deliver them in a single enterprise desktop.As businesses work to consolidate web applications, a portal provides a framework for shared services that can be used in many different applications - services such as single sign-on, common data models and common business services. The web's framework of open standards makes it possible for enterprise portals to bring together services from new and legacy systems, giving them all a common look and feel.Microsoft may not be seen as a portal vendor, but the Windows Server System contains all the tools needed to build a complex enterprise portal. Windows Server 2003 comes with the ASP.Net web application development environment and SharePoint Team Services, which allow you to build simple team collaboration portals quickly. More complex portals can be built by adding the full SharePoint environment, and developing your own "web parts" in familiar development tools (and even inside Office applications), Microsoft's term for its portlet technology.It's an approach that means your enterprise portal can grow with your business: what might have begun   life as a collaboration environment can grow into a service that can front-end business intelligence solutions and enterprise integration technologies.  The need for business intelligence can often drive the implementation of an enterprise portal. Newsagent WH Smith has built its solution on top of Business Objects' toolset. Changes in the newspaper and magazine market have lead to massive demand for information, both inside WH Smith News and   in its suppliers and customers.The portal allows them to share information securely, while letting publishers see how their titles are selling. The use of a portal also makes it easier for WH Smith News to develop and roll out new services in response to customer demand.  Over the next two years or so, enterprise portals are likely to become increasingly important.They will help IT departments combat the problem of web sprawl, reducing management costs and making it easier for users to find information they need, and provide an integration framework that will help organisations move to treating their portfolio of applications as services that support business.
Research In Motion's (RIM) BlackBerry device is becoming the handheld of choice for professionals on the move. Its unique selling point is its ability to automatically update users with new email and diary changes by using always-on high-speed GPRS (general packet radio service) wireless networks - but other devices will also offer BlackBerry facilities.The BlackBerry's ease of use was recently demonstrated when T-Mobile gave 5,000 to delegates at the IBM PartnerWorld conference in Las Vegas earlier this month. Delegates automatically received schedule updates and could make calls and send texts and emails.RIM is riding the crest of a wave in the mobile industry after announcing that, in the past six months, it has almost doubled its subscriber base to 1m globally. There are roughly 100,000 in Europe, around half of which are in the UK.With only 2,000 employees, RIM is now valued at $11bn, and has just secured $1bn from its latest share offering. Some of that will be used to farm out production so it can keep up with orders.Founded in 1984, RIM began sell ing a pager-sized BlackBerry in 1999. Many product updates later, the device is now also a mobile phone and much more of a personal digital assistant with a miniature Qwerty keypad. Distribution has also mushroomed through deals with 50 telecoms operators in 30 countries. RIM now provides the BlackBerry platform to more than 17,000 companies.In the UK, it has been particularly popular in the legal, finance and consultancy fields. It meets the need for a device to help senior staff deal with email, scheduling and contact lists while on the move.Law firm Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer started testing BlackBerrys six months ago and is now rolling out the colour screen 7230 to around 1,200 partners and associates across Europe, including up to 800 staff in the UK. "The BlackBerry has been amazingly successful because of the   simplicity of roaming, the always-on functionality, and the fact that it can be used at any time - which means it allows lawyers to do something useful whenever they have a spare moment. It also stands up well in terms of battery use, which lasts about a week before recharging," says David Hamilton, the firm's IT director.RIM makes money three ways: sales of the devices, sales of the BlackBerry Enterprise software needed to use the devices with Microsoft Exchange and Lotus Notes, and by receiving a percentage of monthly service fees from carriers.It is now seeking to extend the platform through what it calls the BlackBerry Connect licencing program, which allows other manufacturers to connect their handsets to the BlackBerry Enterprise Server. It has also launched BlackBerry Web Client services, which allows individuals and small businesses to use BlackBerrys without the server software.BlackBerry Connect supports Palm OS, Symbian OS and Windows Mobile. Handset partners include HTC, Nokia, Samsung and Sony Ericsson. Sony Ericsson recently announced that its P900 smartphone will support email from the BlackBerry Enterprise Server, following a similar announcement from O2 regarding its Microsoft-based XDA.The attraction for UK carriers selling BlackBerrys - O2, T-Mobile and Vodafone - is that users tend to spend twice as much time on the device than typical mobile phone users.But RIM does not have everything its own way. Its main competitor, GoodLink Software, which provides software that gives PDAs BlackBerry-like features, has just opened a UK office. Its latest version 3.0 software allows automatic wireless synchronisation between a PDA and a desktop PC, rather than the cradle - favoured by BlackBerry users - which is needed to update contacts.GoodLink has also worked closely with Microsoft to develop a version supporting the Phone edition of Microsoft's Windows Mobile for Pocket PCs, which it expects to launch in May. GoodLink has 1,600 corporate   customers in the US. Berlin-based Space2go has just launched software that gives Microsoft Exchange and Lotus Domino software BlackBerry-like facilities to push email to users.RIM is also fighting a legal battle with holding company NTP, which last year won a ruling against it in a patent-infringement case. RIM is appealing.Chris Jones, senior analyst at Canalys, says the attraction of the BlackBerry is its ease of use. "The key is its simplicity, which is often not the case when IT managers try to link other devices to office email systems. RIM will now have to respond to a changing market by providing more wireless connectivity such as Bluetooth."Jessica Figueras, senior analyst at Ovum, says that a mass market is some way off. "Because of the cost, it remains something of a perk, with typically 25-50 managers having a device, but that is quite a small market. At the moment, you can only really prove a return on investment at that level." She also believes that many IT managers balk at the idea of using BlackBerry because they see it only as an email device.But Rick Costanzo, European vice president at RIM, says that BlackBerry is no longer just a device favoured by professionals. "Since we launched a web client and made the enterprise server more open for developers, it is increasingly being used to support field service engineers and sales people." Costanzo says BlackBerry sales have risen sharply because of the combined effects of easier roaming on GPRS data networks and increased marketing from carriers. He says that typical costs begin at &#163;160 for the BlackBerry and &#163;25 in monthly usage charges.Costanzo believes that because of the expertise it has developed, RIM will continue to maintain a market edge despite licencing deals with other PDA and smartphone manufacturers. "It takes a long time to develop a good understanding of wireless data, and we believe we are ahead of our competition."
The idea, like all the best ones do, came from a friend. Back in the mid-90s, Nokia usability guru Christian Lindholm was impressed by a friend's "lifebook", a desk diary where he kept cuttings and photographs, lists of expenses, ideas for home decoration, notes about what he had been doing. It was a scattered, but in many ways brilliant, depiction of exactly what its owner had been doing, and when.Lindholm promised his friend he'd create something similar in the digital world. But it has taken until now for the promise to be fulfilled.Next week at the mammoth CeBIT show in Hannover, Nokia will unveil a new piece of software called Lifeblog. It's likely to be submerged under the thousands of big technology announcements at the show, but the software is an important signal of the rapidly changing mobile phone market, and a sign of what is to come.Nokia Lifeblog is designed to be a repository for the photographs you take, send and are sent on your mobile phone (although it will also import snaps taken with your digital camera). The interface, as previewed in Online this week, looks slick and carefully designed, avoiding what Lindholm refers to as "geeky" clutter.The application's single window holds text messages and video clips, already labelled by compatible Nokia phones, with information on who sent what and when (using the mobile cell information). The software will acquire the messages either when you dock your phone via a cable with your PC, or when you connect PC and phone via Bluetooth.What happens next is perhaps the   most appealing feature of Lifeblog. The software gathers the various bits of media and arranges them in chronological order: picture messages, SMS texts, video clips and annotations (added later), just like Lindholm's friend's lifebook.Unlike a physical book, however, the Lifeblog can be searched - Lindholm calls it "Googling your life" - using the information attached to each item. You can also move through the collection, by clicking on a weblog-like calendar or by scrolling horizontally. You can deposit "favourites" back on the mobile phone to carry with you. And picture message by picture message, text by text, a record is built up, the phone moving from being a communication device to what Lindholm calls a "life recorder".Nokia's Lifeblog software is also notable in that the most visible component of it runs on Windows PCs, marking Nokia's first serious foray into PC software. The company will give away limited versions with every Series 60 phone from this summer, and charge &euro;30 (&#163;20) for the full version, which will be activated online.Lifeblog is part of a first wave of applications attempting to tackle the problem of what do with all the digital content being thrown up by our increasingly gadget-filled lives. Windows XP and Media Center do the job on PCs, while Apple users have had iPhoto for years, but this is the first attempt by a big mobile handset manufacturer to organise pictures and messages created by mobile phones.For Lindholm, the blending of mementoes into a giant digital soup makes it easier for us to keep and   track our memories and share them with others. "People have always been gatherers," he says. "We have a habit of gathering stuff in the analogue world. But when it goes digital ... we are about to witness a content explosion."Mobile phones are certain to be a big contributor to that mobile explosion. On Tuesday, one of Nokia's rivals, Sony Ericsson, announced two new picture phones, including its first with a megapixel camera built in. At the same time, the company also said the acceleration in multimedia messaging was reviving the mobile phone industry: 55m camera phones were sold last year, with camera phones now outselling still digital cameras. More than eight billion multimedia messages will be sent this year, according to Ovum, a consultancy.But, while the quality of built-in phones is improving rapidly, camera makers will argue the comparison between their gadgets and mobile phones was a little unfair. Dedicated cameras still offer the best quality and are more expensive.The implications of Sony Ericsson's announcement, and of Nokia's new software, is clear, however. The much-promised convergence between mobile phone and digital camera is now here. "No longer is &#91;the camera function&#93; a gimmick," says Steve Walker, a Sony Ericsson vice president. "It's a true function."It is also likely to be a battleground for dominance between mobile phone companies, mobile networks and computing industry giants. Mobile phone networks are unlikely to be impressed by Nokia's new PC-oriented   software, as they are keen to carve out a future beyond the simple provision of mobile masts and connections. Lifeblog does not require messages to be sent over their networks to be stored - and so will generate no direct revenue for networks.Weblogging aficionados will also note that, despite using the word "blog" in its name, the Lifeblog does not (yet) allow sharing of its contents on the web. That, hints Lindholm, may change in future versions of the software. He's experimenting with the Typepad weblogging service, a web application that includes mobile weblogging features. But this lies in the future. "Weblogging tools are not mature enough," he says. "We're talking about taking blogging to a mass market, which is not going to put up with the complexity that exists today."
Delays to the introduction of new 3G services have forced T-Mobile and MMO2 to approach industry regulator Ofcom to try to extend their agreement to share networks to provide the technology.Brian McBride, T-Mobile's UK head, said yesterday that he hopes to launch a consumer 3G service over the summer but, echoing comments made by Vodafone's chief executive Arun Sarin two weeks ago, admitted that he was still concerned about a lack of appropriate phones. "Until I've got a clear line of sight as to price, volume and availability I'm not going to announce a full launch," he said. "I would not inflict the experience I had &#91;with handsets&#93; in November and December on my customers."A lack of phones that can use 3G, which brings services such as video calling to mobile devices, has forced T-Mobile and its network partner in the UK, MMO2, to ask the regulator for an extension to their network sharing deal. Last April EU competition authorities allowed the two to share their 3G networks in the UK for five years to speed up 3G roll-out.But yesterday Mr McBride admitted that the two will not be able to make a return on their investment in that period because 3G services, which were expected to launch two years ago, have been so delayed."We are both moving ahead with the plan but we are also letting the regulator know that the business case is challenged," he said. "Given that the whole 3G thing has moved to the right we're not getting five years of benefit out of it."He said the government should allow all mobile phone companies to share their 3G networks if it wants the new service to be available all over the country.T-Mobile's heavily-indebted parent company Deutsche Telekom yesterday reported a net loss for the last three months of 2003 of &euro;364m (&#163;250m) up from &euro;77m due to a one-off &euro;442m charge related to delays in rolling out a new toll road system it has developed in Germany.&#183;Nine companies including Vodafone, Nokia and Microsoft yesterday announced plans to form an internet names registry company to issue domain names for wireless devices. The move will simplify mobile access to the internet.
Four of the biggest email and internet service providers yesterday filed lawsuits in the United States against hundreds of the worst alleged offenders behind unsolicited junk emails, or spam.America Online, Microsoft, Yahoo! and EarthLink filed six suits, the first significant action under a new American anti-spam law.The suits were filed in federal courts in California, Georgia, Virginia and Washington State. They claim the defendants hid their identities and used other deceptive tactics to send out hundreds of millions of pitches for get-rich-quick schemes, pornography and other types of spam.Spam accounts for roughly half of all email traffic and continues to grow at near-exponential rates. Bill Gates, the Microsoft founder, is among those who have warned that the continued unchecked growth of unwanted emails could blunt the continued development of the internet.The cases will be watched closely by lawyers and the industry, marking the first real test of the new law, brought in on a tide of popular feeling against the deluge of spam.All four companies have previously attempted to use state laws to sue "spammers", but the new federal law sets national standards that could make the fight easier and more effective.The law, which came into effect on January 1, is titled Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing, and is better known by the acronym CAN-SPAM.It has increased the size of financial penalties available and raises the possibility of spammers being put out of business. "The lawsuits we file now have some added punch they didn't have before," said AOL general counsel Randall Boe. Other alleged offences include falsifying return addresses, routing messages through other computers to cover spammers' tracks and engaging in false advertising.The lawsuits claim that one group of defendants in Canada sent nearly 100m messages to Yahoo! customers in January alone, reselling the addresses of anyone who responded.But there could be some difficulty in finding some of the biggest offenders: 200 of the cases have been filed against "John Doe" - meaning that their identities have not yet been established.
Online is in the Guardian today, andon the web. Jack Schofield speaks to former Apple fellow and design guruDon Norman, I do more on Nokia's newLifeblogsoftware, first revealedhereon Tuesday, andDave Birchlooks for solutions to our gadget power problems. Plus... webwatch, Inside IT and - as they say - lots, lots more.
Someone or some thing using the email address Debby@aol.com - no doubt forged - is trying to seduce me into infecting my Windows PC with one of the latest viruses.To catch it, I would have to ignore the fact that this is very obviously a virus email, just like another dozen I've seen today. Then I'd have to convert the encoded attachment into a zip file, go to my attachments folder, unzip the file with the password supplied, and run the program.Depending on circumstances, I might also have to change Outlook Express's security settings, which now prevent access to attachments, and ignore warnings from anti-virus programs that recognise the virus.You might think someone would have to be very stupid to fall victim to a threat that requires so much active cooperation. But my mailbox is proof that viruses like this are working well enough to be a serious threat.As many of my contacts know, I hate attachments. It can be a huge pain in the modem downloading them over dial-up lines in hotel rooms in Seoul or San Diego. Sending unsolicited attachments is, at best, inconsiderate, and according to my favourite e-zine,Need To Know, "Sending &gt;500KB attachments is forbidden by the Geneva Convention. Your country may be at risk if you fail to comply". If this is not strictly true, it should be.I therefore delete all unsolicited attachments unread. If someone needs to send me one, they should   either stick it on a server and send me the address to download it, or ask first. Since this approach is almost virus proof, I wish more people did the same.Still, the growth in zipped viruses reflects changes in the desktop computer world. The first is that a zip utility is included in Microsoft Windows XP, so you no longer have to be geeky enough to download and install one. The second is that people are increasingly using zip files to get around company defences set up to block emails that include executable (.exe) attachments.One advantage for virus writers is that zip files are smaller, so they can send more of them. Another is that password-protecting zip files makes it harder for anti-virus programs to spot virus signatures. You   should check that the product you use can do this.Unfortunately, there are now so many people sending zip files by email that it's probably not a good idea just to block all of them, the way you block .exe. .scr, .pif etc. However, it might still be a good idea to block the filenames used by common viruses such as MyDoom. Examples include document.zip, message.zip and readme.zip. Anybody who is deliberately using such unhelpful names - instead of UK_bike_sales_04q1.zip, or whatever - just doesn't deserve to have their email delivered, even if it doesn't contain a virus.Strange as it may sound, file naming, and the ability to compose believable email subject lines, are now important life skills. You need to think about them.
Sphinx and the Cursed MummyPS2, Xbox, GC), &#163;34.99, THQ/EuroCom&#42;&#42;&#42;Despite being the main character in the game Sphinx, the young and brash demi-god isn't the real star of this piece; instead, it's the titular Cursed Mummy, who walks off with the best supporting character Oscar. This is a shame because Prince Tut, who is cursed near the start of the game and forced to wander the Earth as a pile of bandages, isn't given nearly enough gameplay time in the ancient Egyptian-themed platformer.Sphinx gets the lion's share of the gameplay and his fighting, jumping and puzzle-solving sections are very much like Zelda: the Wind Waker, and not terribly interesting. This is in comparison to the Mummy who, being technically dead, has no life bar and instead has to solve puzzles by letting himself get cursed, electrocuted and set on fire. This is aided by a slightly cartoonish look to the gameplay that works particularly well for the Mummy. He would have been a perfect candidate for some multiple Mummy action but, sadly, the game has no multiplayer mode.Despite nice visuals and humour, the developers have inexplicably decided to have no voice-acting for any of the characters. The reliance on pure text takes a lot away from the atmosphere. While much of the gameplay might seem familiar, it's solid fun and the addition of the Mummy, along with a nicely animated world, lifts this above being a dull platformer.Rhianna PratchettWhiplashPlayStation 2, Xbox, &#163;39.99 Crystal Dynamics/Eidos&#42;&#42;&#42;It is never easy to drum up much enthusiasm for action-platform games aimed at youngsters, although a few, notably the early Crash Bandicoot games, have sold well. But Whiplash is a creditable effort. It is one of those games where the plot and premise impress more than its gameplay.You play as Spanx, a weasel, and Redmond, a rabbit, who are shackled together. Both are inhabitants of Genron, an animal research laboratory, and, naturally, are on a quest to escape, freeing fellow animals along the way. In the wrong hands, the plot could have been ruined by political correctness, but Crystal Dynamics has infused Whiplash with plenty of well-observed humour, which will appeal to adults as well as youngsters.There are echoes of Nintendo's Wario games, as poor Redmond (who accepts his plight with a constant stream of wisecracks) has become indestructible. So, to solve puzzles, he must be set on fire, frozen in liquid nitrogen, inflated with helium and stuffed into toilets to cause floods.As the game progresses, the duo acquire abilities (Spanx learns to glide by whirling Redmond around manically). Despite some good moves - the pair can scuttle along rails, for example - the gameplay never quite convinces you of its originality. Nor is it particularly long. But Whiplash   will keep you and any offspring amused, as it is genuinely funny.Steve BoxerThe Cat in the HatXbox, PS2, &#163;29.99 Vivendi,&#42;&#42;&#42;It's all about knowing your audience. Launching a kids game on the Xbox is a bit like cycling the Alps backwards - not worth the effort. The average Xbox owner is male, over 20 and unlikely to be interested in colourful cartoon felines. Mr Halo is, typically, even less bothered about day-glo visuals and traditional platform gameplay. But for the handful of Xbox gamers yet to reach puberty, The Cat in the Hat offers passable entertainment.Based on the film starring Mike Myers, Cat sees you chasing Alec Baldwin's character around a lurid environment. Polished and mildly amusing, Cat is easy enough to pick up and play. But there's more than just jumping. By shooting enemies with his brolly, Cat can encase them in bubbles, which are vital, as they destroy barriers and baddies.There's strategy in working out how best to produce the super-bubbles needed to clear the way. But there is nothing that hasn't been seen before and aiming it at children is no excuse. Pokemon, for example, was full of novel features. Cat is adequate for youngsters but won't cause more than a ripple in the wider Xbox pond.Greg Howson
Hidden editsI have just read of SCO's embarrassment over a Microsoft Word document that had hidden within it alternative plans in their campaign against Linux. How do you ensure that a Word document does not contain hidden edits?Nick RouseJack Schofield replies:Word's ability to track changes with multiple authors, include comments, open earlier versions of a document   (under File|Versions) and multiple "undo" features are tremendously useful but, as many have found, not without drawbacks. Microsoft has finally released a free tool (add-in 834427) to remove this hidden data from Office documents. You can download it fromwww.microsoft.com/downloads. However, it only works with Office XP and Office 2003. There are also "known issues": see Microsoft Knowledge Base article 834636 for details.With Word 2000 and other versions, switch off both Allow Fast Saves and Track Changes to stop the program from saving multiple versions and edits, then save and close the document. You can also try saving the document as an RTF (rich text format) file. The file should be noticeably smaller - unless it is one that contains pictures and graphics, in which case it could be much larger!One advantage of the RTF format is that the files are held in plain text, not binary, so you can load them into a plain text editor such as Notepad and see exactly what they contain. Word documents offer features that RTF does not support, but it's often worth converting a file to RTF before sending it to someone else. Many programs can read RTF files even if they cannot read Word documents.ContentionI subscribe to broadband for £54.45 plus VAT per month. I   have been offered a similiar package for £33 per month, the difference being a "contention ratio" of no greater then 48:1, compared with 24:1 at the moment. I can't figure out how it could be measured and controlled. Is it   so much hogwash?Conor McNestryJS:The service provider does not have to measure and control anything, just connect the wires and let users fight it out for the available bandwidth. It's the same as having one water tank feeding either 24 or 48 taps. It works as long as not everyone wants to use the connection at the same time - which is why most ISPs don't like people who use peer-to-peer file-sharing systems.Email rescueUsing Outlook Express, by some accidental keystroke, I deleted an outgoing message which had taken some time to write, before it had been sent. Do you know a way of making OE create automatic backups of a message as it is   being written?Desmond DonovanJS:Outlook Express does not "auto-save" but, as with other email programs, you can save messages before sending them. If you select File and Save from the menu, OE   will save the mail in your Drafts folder. If you select File and Save As, it will save it in My Documents (or somewhere else, if you navigate there) using the subject line as the file name.Your chances of getting the lost email back are slim, but you can try. Go to C:\ in Windows Explorer, press F3 and search your hard drive for *.dbx files. Copy the file called Deleted Items.dbx into a temporary folder. You can then use DBXtract (downloaded fromwww.oehelp.com/DBXtract/Default.aspx) to extract the contents and see if your email is there. You can delete the copied dbx file and unwanted emails afterwards.Games hitchI recently bought a new Aries PC. One problem is that the graphics card does not play the latest PC games. The error message says the card does not support T&amp;L.Nick OngeriJS:Intel graphics products do not have hardware support for Hardware Transform and Lighting (T&amp;L), which I think appeared in GeForce cards at the end of 1999. Intel's website says: "In most games, transform and lighting calculations can be performed on the processor with acceptable performance. A small number of games that specifically check for hardware T&amp;L support may fail to run." The solution would seem to be to install a new graphics card.   I usually go toTom's Hardwarefor the reviews.Backchat&#183;Mike Whittaker complains: "You recently published an item containing a masl.to link to an article on   The Times website. However, accessing this article required a paid subscription." Sorry, the linked   page was freely available when I wrote the item. The article was   about "Weaselboy" Peter Francis-Macrae. For further information,   see the Register Of Known Spam Operations (Rokso), atSpamhaus.
Victoria ClimbiË's short and sad life continues to cast a long shadow over government IT policy. In theory, everyone is moving together to set up data-sharing networks to ensure that such tragedies cannot happen again. The Children bill published last week gives the government powers to require local authorities to create databases of every child within their borders.The idea, set out in the Laming report into ClimbiË's death, is that when one agency is alerted to the fact that a child is in trouble, these concerns will be flagged to others.Everyone involved has been aware for months that these systems, known in the jargon as identification, referral and tracking (IRT), are going to happen. Why then last week, did another government document warn local authorities "not to rush into decisions on IT investment at this stage"?The reason is that details of what will be stored on IRT systems, how children will be identified and even the geography over which the systems will work is still unclear. So, too, is the mechanism for signalling alerts between professions as diverse as social workers, doctors, teachers and police officers.Nearly everyone involved says that the cultural issues of getting these people speaking the same language are more difficult than the technical ones.   The education department last week promised "regulations and guidance". But what's driving everyone into a panic is the realisation that with today's mobile population, some kind of national child-alert system may be necessary. Although in theory the option exists to do things at a local or regional level, this is merely setting the scene for another ClimbiË to fall through the net because London and the west midlands have different IRT databases.Yet even if a national system could be made to work, it would be an expensive (and intrusive) nightmare.There's an alternative. This would be a national "spine" of basic data connecting stand-alone systems. The spine would contain   a unique identity number for each child, along with a coded system of alert flags. Professionals needing details behind the flags would get them from human custodians of local systems. Professionals talking to professionals.Sound familiar? The spine and local record model is based on the concept of the NHS care records service being knocked up by BT and LogicaCMG. However, until the service is rolled out nationally, and proven to be secure and reliable, it will remain just a concept.One component of the spine that could be of use immediately, however, is the NHS number. As government ID numbers go, it is relatively clean, with few duplicates. Every newborn child and every resident foreigner registered with a GP has one. One of the conditions on which it was issued, from the mid-90s, was that it would be used only by the NHS. The government should now have the nerve to change that. Doing so would be a classic example of "function creep" bemoaned by civil libertarians, but the alternatives are worse.
When you pack your bag for a trip, your routine probably starts off something like mine: mobile phone charger (if the trip is more than a few days), spare charged battery just in case, charger for Bluetooth headset, spare dock for iPod plus Firewire cable to charge it from Powerbook, spare charged battery for Powerbook, Powerbook airline seat adapter, mains power adapter for Powerbook and UK to US/European plug converter.Phew! Now we can start packing the things we really need, such as the mobile phone, headset, Powerbook and iPod. With any luck, there might be space for a washbag and some clothes. Power, or the fear of the lack of it, has become a real pain. Last time my iPod ran out, in   an airport, I was already bored to the limits of endurance. When the power went, it was the last straw.Fortunately, that side of things has improved. On my flight to the US last week, I plugged my iPod into its Belkin power pack and sat back to relax. Then I started to wonder why everything I packed for this trip was smaller, faster and generally better than everything I would have packed a few years ago, except for the batteries (the power pack runs on regular AAs).Progress in battery technology has become asymptotic: it is never going to go to another level. No wonder so much effort is going into the search for alternatives: shoes that contain piezoelectronics to generate power as you walk, clockwork power packs, portable solar cells and, for example, fuel cells.Fuel cells convert chemical energy into electronic energy in, generally speaking, quite an efficient way. There are various candidates for the kind of portable battery replacement I'm talking about. An example is good old CH3 OH: methanol. Apart from being explosive and poisonous, it's ideally suited because it packs a lot of chemical energy into a small space. I saw a demonstration of a mobile phone powered by a methanol fuel cell a few weeks ago, and it wasn't far away from being an acceptable size. (It was about the same size again as the Nokia it was powering.) Energy density looked quite good and the phone would run for a few weeks on a single cell. Waste gases are sealed inside the cell and the only exhaust product is water. Nevertheless, there is progress.Perhaps a better solution might come from an entirely different   direction. The human body generates an awful lot of energy during the course of the day and most of it is wasted, simply radiated away as heat. Perhaps our own bio-energy is the solution.Suppose you could wear some kind of patch that drew energy from your body and converted it into a useful form to power your laptop, cellphone, iPod, GPS, PDA, Bluetooth headset, torch and sonic screwdriver? In essence, your body would just be burning additional calories. This would have to rank as one of the greatest inventions in human history and its inventor would be rich beyond the dreams of avarice. As you talk on your phone, play Tetris on your laptop or groove away to your iPod ... you'll be getting thinner. A methanol fuel cell can't compete with that.
Local socialI have tended to see online social networking as an American phenomenon. However, Europe's largest social network, Ecademy, is now six years old, and has just launched a US version. Ecademy is "a trusted network, connecting business people to share knowledge, contacts and transactions", and it is free to join. People meet offline, too, and Ecademy says 200 to 300 people turn up for events in London. Its latest online clubs include "Pub is the Hub" - a campaign to promote the pub as the centre of the community in rural areas.www.ecademy.comhttp://us.ecademy.comMore ThumbshotsThumbnail images of websites are sometimes called thumbshots, and you can now get them with the DMoz Open Directory - a sort of open source version of Yahoo - thanks to Thumbshots.org. This is a non-profit project spawned by Smartdevil, which describes itself as "the leader in web preview technology". The site also offers guidelines to help Thumbshot's bots generate nice previews of their pages. You can see thumbshots in action at, for example, Domains of Spain.www.thumbshots.orgwww.thumbshots.org/guidelines.pxfwww.smartdevil.comhttp://domainsofspain.comChernobyl storyA Ukrainian woman posted a moving photographic journal of her motorcycle rides through Chernobyl and its surrounds. It's the kind of thing that might never get noticed, but in this case it spread via word of mouth and ended up on Slashdot, which resulted in the predictable death-dealing traffic spike. The original site, on Angelfire home pages, now says it is "under reconstruction". However, a Slashdot reader, sahrss, made a zipped copy of the site available, and it is also being circulated on file-sharing networks. It is a great illustration   of the real power of the net.www.angelfire.com/extreme4/kiddofspeedhttp://sahrs.net/chernobyl.zipCritter picsNational Geographic's Greg Marshall saw a remora clinging to a shark in the sea off the coast of Belize, and wondered if he could attach a camera in a similar way. He could. That led to the Crittercam, and a TV series. Most of the examples on the Crittercam site are of sea beasts, including whales, seals and king penguins, but there are clips from the first terrestrial effort: lions in Laikipia, Kenya. The site also offers previews of the TV programmes in RealPlayer and Windows Media formats.www.nationalgeographic.com/channel/crittercamwww.oceanlight.com/html/remora_sp.htmlZapmetaIt is always useful to have a meta-search engine to hand - one that gets its results by feeding the same search to several search engines. I've used Dogpile for years, but Zapmeta has some attractive features. You can select which of seven search engines you want it to search - though Google is not an option - and get nice thumbnail images of the sites that appear in the results. You can also do Boolean searches, sort results by Relevance, Popularity, Title, Source and Domain, and fetch old versions of pages. However, don't write off Dogpile. It has a new look, has just launched a UK version, and has handy tabs for looking up phone numbers. It also has a neat way of grouping results so you can refine searches. I like it much more than another new meta-search site, Queryster.www.zapmeta.comwww.dogpile.comwww.queryster.comChurchill and USAmerica's Library of Congress has produced a preview of an exhibition devoted to Sir Winston Churchill. Although there is a focus on his relationship with "the Great Republic", much of the material is drawn from the UK. The exhibition opens on June 26.www.loc.gov/exhibits/churchillOnly projectMany people have little projects to manage, but no desire to install a complicated project management package. Fortunately, you can do it using web-based software. Online Homebase has been mentioned here before, but there are alternatives. BaseCamp is the next step up, aimed at freelance designers, and small businesses. Top of the range is Project Desk from AskSam Systems.www.onlinehomebase.comwww.BasecampHQ.comwww.projectdesk.netNew &amp; notedNobody herewww.nobodyhere.com/justme/present.hereGum Blondeswww.gumblondes.comOpen source e-learning platformhttp://spaghettilearning.comPage tracking (not free)www.trackle.comSix of the best:Anti-virusOnline checkshttp://security.symantec.comhttp://housecall.antivirus.com/housecall/start_corp.aspFree checkerwww.grisoft.comwww.thefreecountry.com/security/antivirus.shtmlAV encyclopediawww.ravantivirus.com/pages/virus.phpNews and linkswww.virusbtn.com
Security flawThe claims of Microsoft's Stuart Okin (The last rites for spam? March 4) are ridiculous. It simply isn't true that MyDoom "did not use any vulnerability in a Microsoft product". This virus spreads because it includes an attachment that contains a program that scans the victim's files for email addresses and sends itself to those addresses. Seewww.cert.org/advisories/CA-2004-02.html.Microsoft systems have been designed to automatically open and execute attachments like these by default. This is an obvious and stupid security flaw. There is no reason for an email client to execute attachments. Even if there were, users should be warned before the executable gets started. If this vulnerability did not exist, neither would MyDoom and the other similar viruses that infest Microsoft products. Perhaps Okin would care to tell us which vulnerability MyDoom did exploit? Maybe he could also explain why MyDoom didn't work on non-Microsoft platforms?Jim ReidBothwellChallenge itI was surprised to see that you seem to be recommending the use challenge-response systems as a good way to fight spam. As the saying goes in spam-fighting circles: "Challenge-response messages are almost as bad as spam."Why? First, 99% of spam have forged addresses in the "from" line - either made-up ones, or addresses that belong to someone else. If it's a   made-up address, the challenge-response message will bounce around the internet, cluttering a system that is already congested. If it's someone else's address, the challenge-response message will add to the clutter in that person's mailbox - not a big problem if it's a single message, but a major problem if that person's address has been hijacked for an entire spam run.Second, automated messages (such as purchase confirmations and e-tickets) are often sent with a "from" address that is not actively monitored, which means that challenge-response messages will  not be actioned and important messages may not get through. The BBC web site recently carried a story of a family that nearly got stuck at a foreign airport over Christmas because advice from the airline of a schedule change got stuck in their spam filters!Third, if person A (who has a challenge-response system) tries to communicate with person B (who also has a challenge-response system), their messages may never get through. The two systems could create a mail loop by playing ping-pong of auto-responses with each other.One really needs to take the view that  all autoresponders are bad - whether they are vacation messages, challenge-response spam protection or any other kind.Angelika VossPenalise themNeil McIntosh says nothing about the spammers themselves. These spam messages promote goods and products. Each message belongs to an affiliate of that particular company. Can something not be done to those companies? They know who the affiliate/spammer is and they either know where they send their payment cheques or who they make direct bank payments to. If the companies do not stop affiliates spamming by closing their accounts, then those companies should be penalised. Every piece of spam can ultimately be traced back to a real person.Martin CreaneyGlasgowPixel perfectLast April (Ask Jack, April 24), Peter Paul Curran wrote to you asking if a dead pixel in an LCD display was legally unacceptable.Earlier that month, I bought a new PowerMac G4 and 20 Cinema display, with a view to enhancing my powers as a professional film and TV editor, using Final Cut Pro. Imagine my disappointment when the display for which I had paid more than &#163;1,000 had a permanently bright green pixel right where I edit.A phone call to Apple quickly brought me up to speed on the "pixel anomaly" issue, and how Apple gets away with selling substandard monitors with up to four "dead pixels" per screen, even though this is not mentioned in the exemptions section of the warranty. The supplier was equally unhelpful. To cut a long story short, I now have a perfect monitor.How? I started a claim against the supplier in the small claims court, basing my case on the Sale of Goods act, which states that a product must be fit for the purpose for which it was purchased - in my case, film editing. Nine months later and two days before the hearing, the supplier offered to settle out of court, provided me with a perfect monitor and repaid my costs. Is this a first? Or is the tide turning in favour of consumers who quite rightly expect perfect goods when shelling out such a large amount of money?Richard MilwardOut of dateIn his column, Jack Schofield twice makes reference to Windows XP being the 1991 version. I know it feels as though it has been around forever, but is it really this old?James Greasley&#183;Online replies: No, it is not that old. Thanks to all the readers who pointed out that XP has only been around since 2001.
China stands outChina excluding Hong Kong had 10.95m digital subscriber lines (DSL, providing broadband with standard phone lines) connected at the end of last year, more than any other country. According to data from telecoms firms, collated by analyst Point Topic for industry consortium DSL Forum, Japan comes second with 10.27m DSL lines and the US third with 9.12m. The UK comes 10th with 1.82m lines, but on percentages of phone lines with DSL it drops to 26th, with 5.2% connected. South Korea has the highest proportion, with 27.7%. Globally, there were 63.84m DSL lines, up 79% on the previous year.www.dslforum.org25 hours a weekThe average broadband user spends 25 hours online each week, according to cable network provider NTL. The firm, which last week said it has 1m UK broadband customers, says that 73% use their connection every day. Broadband users send twice as many emails as dial-up customers, and are around twice as likely to use facilities including online banking or maintaining a family website. Of broadband users, 54% regularly download entertainment, compared with 26% of those using dial-up connections, and 46% have more than one home computer.MusicDigital sellVirgin will start a US music download service this summer, with a UK launch following within a month. Zack Zalon, president of Virgin Digital, said the Windows Media Audio-compatible service will include new player software, designed to generate better sound quality. He says customers will be able to buy individual tracks, but expects the subscription-based Virgin Digital Music Club to be more popular.Pack a punchSamsung claims to have developed the world's smallest MP3 player. Just larger than an AA battery, the YP-T5, announced last week in Korea, is 5.4cm high and weighs 24 grams. It is available in three storage capacities, (128, 256 and 512MB), features Windows Media Audio (WMA) playback and has the option of recording external sources, such as a CD player, direct to an MP3. It can also moonlight as a voice recorder. Samsung has crammed a small LED screen into the player, which offers traditional MP3   information such as track ID and file navigation. There's no news yet on a UK launch.www.samsungelectronics.co.ukRival playersSony has confirmed that its revamped version of its MiniDisc format, which it is positioning as a rival to hard disk-based MP3 players such as the Apple iPod, is to arrive in the UK in late spring. The new discs, christened Hi-MD by Sony, are physically similar to existing ones, but Sony has ramped up the capacity to 1GB, enabling users to store up to 30 hours of music (128kbps MP3 standard equivalent) on a single disc. It will also have around 50 hours of battery life - as much as five times more than rival MP3 players. The new discs use a variant of Sony's ATRAC 3 compression technology and incorporate its OpenMG and MagicGate copyright protection. The first model to feature the format is likely to be the MZ-NH1, a top-end player selling for around &#163;300.www.sony.co.ukWebsitesBad connectionIt may have recently connected its two millionth broadband customer, but BT has the worst website of the UK's 100 biggest companies, according to new research. The telecoms group's site also had the slowest page download speed. Retailer Dixons came last on quality of web-page code, and asset management firm Schroders had the slowest server response time. The rankings were compiled by Business2www, using automated site-testing software. Ironically, the top site was mobile network operator MM02, once owned by BT, followed by medical products firm Smith &amp; Nephew.HardwareMirror, mirrorPhilips is to bring its innovative mirror TV to the UK next month. The MiraVision integrates a 23in LCD screen within a mirror. Designed for use in the bathroom, it can be incorporated within a home network to check email or surf the web. Once the screen is switched off, the MiraVision looks like an ordinary mirror. Philips says the MiraVision can also be used in a living room as a main screen as it uses polarised mirror technology, which can deliver a wide viewing angle. It will retail for around &#163;2,400.www.philips.co.ukSleep on it"Insomniacs can now stay up all night surfing the internet or playing games in the dark," according to NightOwl Keyboards Ltd. NightOwl has launched a range of illuminated ergonomic keyboards and mice designed in the UK by NightOwl's founder, Barbara Sexton. The coloured PS/2 keyboards offer five levels of illumination controlled by two extra hot keys, and can be used via USB adaptors with PCs and Macs. Keyboards cost &#163;60 from the Gadget Shop.www.gadgetshop.com/eshopTwice the funChinese brand Lenovo hopes to revolutionise the laptop by launching a twin screen model later this year. The PC, codenamed Vela, has a traditional 15.4in main display and a further 4in screen on the front of the laptop's case. This second screen will enable users to check email, search for contact details and read information about music play ing on the laptop. The Vela will also be among the first notebook PCs to include Intel's new Mobile Internet PC 2004 platform called Sonoma, which features Intel's next Pentium mobile processor, as well as facilities such as 802.11g wireless access.GadgetsKeep abreastBritish design company PDD has paraded a prototype of a PDA-sized device that works using Wi-Fi and GPS to keep the traveller abreast of their itinerary. At each Wi-Fi hot-spot, the device automatically accesses the traveller's dedicated website to discover the latest travel information. If, for example, a flight has been delayed, Plan-b will relay that information and prompt the owner to tackle other parts of their affected itinerary, such as hotel bookings. It also automatically downloads local tourist information. It provides real-time navigation information, such as the ability to point its integrated camera at a building and use GPS to name it. Plan-b's owners can also use the device to translate street signs and place names.www.pdd.co.ukStat of the week:Static sitesAlthough 13% of American adults have websites, the Pew Internet &amp; American Life project found that just 2% keep weblogs. That could help explain why so many rarely update their home pages. More than 40% of website owners let weeks pass without an update.
Olympus's new top-end consumer digital camera is its first model with a removable lens system designed for digital photography. Thanks to a standard called Four Thirds, introduced in collaboration with Kodak, which regulates the type and diameter of the lens mount, E-1 owners can choose from different lenses.   While Four Thirds offers unrivalled flexibility, it also locks owners into a system that is far from universal.The camera is a dream to handle, courtesy of an ergonomically sound design. The 1.8in 134k pixel LCD viewfinder is superb, while the control and the menu system can be mastered fairly swiftly. Images are   saved on to either a CompactFlash card or an IBM Microdrive (top storage capacity of 4GB). The five megapixel images are generally superb, with excellent colour resolution.But the E-1 isn't without foibles. There's no flash (an external one   costs &#163;350) and the autofocus was not as speedy as we'd expect from a camera in this range. The price (&#163;1,850 with a 14-54mm f2.8-3.5 lens) is high. Competition may come from the cheaper Canon EOS 300D and Sony's Cybershot DSC-F828.www.olympus.co.uk
Birmingham is on the brink of making history. If all goes well, on March 31 it will become the first British city to make all its services available electronically   to its citizens.This week, more   than 97% of Birmingham's services were e-enabled, says Glyn Evans,   IT director. "There are increasing levels of confidence that we'll get there."At the city's website,www.birmingham.gov.uk, it is already possible to pay your council tax, report an abandoned vehicle or book a sunbed at a leisure centre (approved users only).Birmingham won't be the first local authority to put all its services on the web - that honour belongs to Tameside, in Greater Manchester - but it does things on a different scale.   As the city's 52,000 employees   run almost every conceivable government function short of a defence ministry, this is proof that   e-government can be a reality.What is available, however, depends largely on where you live. Four years after the prime minister decreed that all government services would be e-enabled by the end of 2005, national government is about two thirds of the way there. The Office of the e-Envoy, in charge of the effort, this week said that 410 of the 607 things the government does for or to its citizens and businesses are now e-enabled.Online government gems include thepolice portal, which allows citizens to report non-urgent crimes online, and theNHS portal. Among other things, this lists current waiting times for appointments at individual hospitals. The planning portal www.planningportal.gov.uk accepts planning applications online (though only if you live in one of the dozen councils so far fully connected to the service).There are some odd omissions. One is renewing a car tax disc, which in 2001 topped a poll for the online government service that most people would like to have. The Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency is about to launch a pilot service for owners of cars less than three years old (who don't need an MOT certificate), but doesn't want any publicity. Car owners tired of queuing at post offices should keep an eye onwww.dvla.gov.uk.Another service being treated as a state secret is Transport Direct, the long-awaited web portal that will combine train, bus and eventually air transport information. It was due to go live in a couple of months, said a spokesman this week.Even when national government agencies get their act together,   e-government will be very much a local affair. Up to 80% of all contacts between citizens and officialdom are with local authorities (the e-envoy, Andrew Pinder, disagrees with this figure, which he says is exaggerated by monthly council tax payments).The authoritative annual survey of council websites, published last month, shows a huge variation in what's on offer. Every local authority now has a website, but many carry only promotional material: electronic versions of the leaflets about local attractions that clutter up every level surface in cheap B&amp;Bs.  According to the Better Connected report, from the local government IT managers' association SocITM,   23 authorities now have websites in the class of Birmingham's or Tamesides. The buzzword is "transactional" - they allow citizens to book transactions and handle two-way communications.Eight of the 23 are London boroughs (including the Corporation of London). Unitary authorities such as Brighton and Hove and Bracknell, which combine services of county and district authorities, also do well. Only three shire counties have transactional sites, and only one authority each in Scotland and Wales makes the grade.Predictably, the most commonly available transaction is paying council tax (244 authorities). Other popular transactions are reporting faulty streetlights and graffiti. The least commonly available were making a housing benefit claim and booking a sports facility (only 15 authorities).The SocITM researchers found much local innovation. For example, the City of Sunderland's planning system allows people who have submitted planning applications to check progress by entering a reference number. Derby's homefinder is an interactive database of council housing and housing associations. Leeds' site accepts electronic applications for council homes, by area and property type. Shepway district council takes graffiti seriously - an electronic graffiti form asks about the medium used and whether the graffiti is racist or otherwise offensive. The leader of Merton borough council in London holds an online surgery, publishing answers to questions submitted by form.SocITM says that people are starting to notice that government is online. The report says that between 3.8m and 5.7m people visited local authority websites in December alone. This is between 8.2% and 12.3% of the population over 15. But, unless they are lucky where they live, many of these visitors will leave disappointed.&#183;Better Connected 2004, a survey of local authority websites.www.socitm.gov.uk.
Soho unpluggedSoho is becoming a "hotspot" in the technological sense, as Westminster City Council starts to transform London into a wireless city. The pilot project in Soho allows CCTV surveillance cameras and noise monitoring equipment to be operated remotely, and council workers can connect to the city's network from the street. The idea is to create many similar hotspots and connect them into a city-wide system. The pilot project has been supported by several commercial companies such as Cisco Systems, Intel and Telindus, a surveillance solutions provider, who hope to benefit if the idea takes off. Councillor Simon Milton, leader of Westminster council, said that through the wireless city: "We will be better able to reduce the threat and fear of crime through a flexible approach to community safety, cleansing and CCTV - reacting to events and developments as they happen."www.westminster.gov.uk/news/PR-1853.cfmFCO wires worldThe Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) has completed a worldwide telecoms network linking 15,000 staff in   220 embassies in 140 countries, most recently connecting Pacific islands including Tonga and Fiji. The network supports voice calls, web-based applications including visa applications, access to a financial management system and the FCO's intranet, as well as providing email and internet access. The FCO told Government Computing News that the service, supplied by   telco Global Crossing under a £230m outsourcing contract, was installed quickly last year in new diplomatic posts in Basra and Baghdad in Iraq through use of portable satellite links.www.kablenet.comSavage packMicrosoft is warning software developers that Windows XP Service Pack 2 (SP2) will not be compatible with some existing applications when it appears later this year. This will be a cause for concern for many IT managers, who will not only have to roll out the upgrade to XP but will also have to apply third-party fixes and perform compatibility checks on in-house software and other packages. To help, Microsoft has created an online training course, a first for any service pack released by the company. SP2 is not the usual mix of bug fixes and new features but contains significant code changes to improve security.http://msdn.microsoft.com/security/productinfo/XPSP2Euro visionariesHewlett-Packard is launching the European HP Business Vision Award 2004, a competition for small businesses in the UK, Germany and France. The company is establishing the award in recognition of the contribution made   by small businesses to the broader economic environment. The winner will need to have demonstrated achievements in the areas of innovation, use of technology, marketing, promotion and business success. Entries will be accepted until May 16, and the UK winner to go to the European competition will be announced on July 15. The overall award winner will be announced on August 18.www.hp.com/uk/businessvisionWasted energyThe financial benefits and environmental effects of recycling computers under the EC Directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) are criticised in a book from the UN University and the European Zero Emissions Forum. In their book Computers and the Environment, Ruediger Kuehra and Eric Williams say that extending the life of a computer by reselling or upgrading offers up to 20 times greater energy savings than recycling. They assert that computers pose an environmental threat equal to refrigerators, and production requires 10 times their weight in fossil fuels. The current move towards laptops is compounding the problem by making it harder to recycle or upgrade systems.www.unu.edu/zef/publications-d/flyer.pdfOpen databasesAMR Research reckons it is now time to start piloting open source databases for non-mission critical operations. The report claims they will reach technical parity with proprietary software within the next two years. Despite cries from   IT departments that they already have too many databases to support, AMR concludes that open source's bargain-basement pricing will quell most resistance. Current offerings are limited in scalability and are only beginning to add advanced features such as stored procedures, but they are being used in new deployments for customised applications, websites and customer-facing data storage.www.amrresearch.com
How has Estonia, which joins the EU on May 1, become so IT-savvy?It was a question of taking the right political decisions at the right time. At the start of the 90s, the time of privatisation, we made a leap to get computers into all Estonian schools and villages. I remember a meeting in Brussels with Martin Bangeman, the commissioner responsible for industrial policy and we, with our broadcasting people, had this vision of what to do.What happens in your online    cabinet meetings?We have only computers on our tables. Ministers don't need paper because each can put speaking notes on to the computer and other ministers can make their own comments before the meeting. All ministers and their assistants have access to a ministerial chat room for this purpose. It makes things work fast.We don't discuss bills if they have been agreed in advance. When the government adopts a new bill, it will immediately, in real time, be put up on the internet in the briefing room. So when journalists come to the press conference after government meetings, they know what bills have been adopted. During meetings, of course, we speak into the microphone and talk directly to each other. But we don't discuss the things already agreed by everyone.Online voting?We are in the process of preparing for next year's local elections. To vote by computer is voluntary but you need to use an ID card. We have hired hackers whose task it is to test the system by breaking into it to inflict damage. We will make a final decision in the autumn.How is digital democracy working?The system has been built up on the principle that everyone who has something to say to government can write into the system called Tom. In the ministries, there are people who look into the proposals to see if there is anything serious. It does have a negative side if people write stupid things. Expenditures made by the government can be followed on the net in real time.What is broadband used for in Estonia?Most of Estonia's internet users are on broadband. All schools and libraries have broadband. Most civil servants use personal computers and   the internet. Some 60% of internet users use electronic banking and 80% of all banking transactions are electronic. I use a laptop with mobile phone during meetings of the EU Council of Ministers. I am the only one of the 25 who uses a laptop.Mobile phones?Parking is widely paid for using mobile phones and everyone can buy a ticket for trains and buses by mobile if they want.Gadgets?I carry a Flash memory disk so if I go to Brussels I do not need to take my computer because its contents are stored on the memory card. I can then use it with our ambassador's computer. I have an old Nokia phone because I am used to using it in the car and I also use a GPRS card with my home computer because I live in the country.News portal:www.delfi.eeForeign Ministry's website:www.vm.ee
The Electoral Commission suggests an increased risk of fraudulent voting with postal voting, but its chair, Sam Younger, admits this is hypothetical (Report, March 9). The government needs to address security, but must not lose its momentum in introducing new voting methods that have, on average, increased local election turnouts by 15%. Mori's polling shows nine out of 10 voters welcome the ease and convenience of postal, internet and telephone voting. We must deliver voting arrangements that meet our lifestyles in the 21st century.Chris Mole MPLab, Ipswich
Sir Richard Branson plans to tackle the online threat to his Virgin record shops head-on by putting consoles in store that will allow users to download music directly to portable players.With legal download sites including Napster and Apple's iTunes due to launch in the UK this summer, Sir Richard has signed a deal with US download service MusicNet to offer more than 700,000 tracks to consumers.These will be available both on a pay-per-track basis and through a monthly payment option that will allow subscribers to download as much music as they want, burn it to CDs and copy it to portable players."Passionate music fans have made it clear that they want their music when they want it, where they want it, and how they want it," said Sir Richard."Well, we've heard them. We're going to redefine the way that our customers relate to their music - we're going to take digital music into the stratosphere," he added.Record labels - battling with falling revenues due to a huge rise in physical piracy and the popularity of trading illegal music over filesharing networks such as Kazaa - now license hundreds of thousands of tracks to legal download services.Last week Universal, the home of acts including Eminem and U2, announced it had  cleared more than 300,000 tracks for sale through digital download sites, while rival label EMI completed its 50th individual distribution deal with pioneering legal peer-to-peer site Wippit.Meanwhile, the growing popularity of the iPod and other digital music players and the success of iTunes and Napster in the US have raised hopes that legal online music sales will take off in 2004.As part of its plans to promote the service, Virgin will put special consoles in its record stores around the world, allowing customers to download tracks directly to CD or their portable players.The move will be seen as a pre-emptive strike against online-only stores that threaten the business model of traditional high street retailers.It will also offer the service to compatible mobile handsets through its Virgin Mobile arm and work to develop new ways of selling digital music with MusicNet, whose shareholders include Sony, Universal, EMI and BMG owner Bertelsmann."This is an exciting opportunity for the millions of consumers who are as dedicated to music as we are," said Simon Wright, the chief executive of Virgin Entertainment Group."We will offer a 360 degree world of music through Virgin Digital with more selection, better sound quality, exclusive customer service features and the passion and attitude that defines the Virgin experience," he added.Zack Zalon, who helped build the group's Radio Free Virgin internet radio station into the most popular in the world, will head up the new joint venture.The chief executive of MusicNet, Alan McGlade, said he was "thrilled to be working with Virgin in a global relationship with significant reach and well known assets spanning online, wireless, retail and devices which promises to deliver the industry's most entertaining and accessible digital music experience".Virgin will not be alone in its desire to expand onto the web. Aside from iTunes and Napster, dozens of other companies have already launched digital download sites or have plans to do so this year.HMV, Freeserve, Microsoft, Coca-Cola and Tiscali have launched their own branded download sites through OD2, the digital rights company founded by former Genesis frontman Peter Gabriel.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Rebel shareholders opposed to plans by Psion to sell its stake in Symbian believe the company could have forced a flotation of the mobile phone software developer and secured a better return for shareholders.Shareholders in Psion are due to vote on Friday on the company's decision to sell its 31% stake in Symbian to Nokia, which already owns 32%, for &#163;136m. A simple majority is needed to clear the deal, but the vote has become increasingly contentious.Last week the company's largest shareholder, Phoenix Asset Management - which holds a 13.5% stake - said it would vote against the sale.In addition, Bracknell-based entrepreneur David Sharman is leading a group of rebel shareholders who speak for a further 11.5% of Psion and also intend to vote against the deal. He believes about half the shareholders are still undecided about which way to vote.Mr Sharman reckons that a close reading of the agreement which founded Symbian in 1999 shows that Psion decided to dump its stake too soon and that the company has short-changed shareholders.According to a fellow rebel, a City lawyer who has examined the relevant documents, "the entire Symbian agreement was predicated on an IPO of the business", Mr Sharman said yesterday.Last year, despite Psion's protestations, Nokia went cold on a float of the business, deciding instead to invest more of its own cash in the company. Mr Sharman believes that at this point Psion could have claimed that Nokia was in breach of the shareholders' agreement and either pushed for a flotation or used the threat of legal action to push up the value of its stake in the business.The company could also, he insists, have used as a bargaining tool its ability to block any attempt by Symbian to reduce the price it charges its customers to use its software. Nokia accounts for about 70% of Symbian's business and any reduction in licence fees has a direct benefit to the company."We are not emotionally attached to Symbian," said Mr Sharman. "We are agnostic as to what route they &#91;Psion&#93; go down, but what we are very clear on is it must result in a better value proposal for shareholders than what is currently on offer."Psion's chairman, David Potter, who was instrumental in the formation of Symbian, admitted yesterday that he had wanted a flotation of the business, "but if that was not actually feasible then it would have been idle to pursue some kind of fantasy and allow the progressive destruction of value" in Symbian."In order to have an IPO you do need unanimous agreement ... In practical terms it is not something that we can force," he added.He also defended the price Psion will receive for its stake in the business. The Nokia deal values the entire business at just over &#163;436m, which is considerably lower than many analysts had predicted the venture was worth in a float.But Mr Potter said yesterday that his legal advisers had pored over the shareholder agreement for months, and he believed he had wrung the best possible price out of Nokia.One of Mr Potter's advisers added that Mr Sharman's legal colleague was "just plain wrong" in his reading of the Symbian agreement.
I just had a fascinating meeting with Christian Lindholm, the Nokia usability guru who is now director of multimedia applications for the company. He was giving me a sneak preview of the Lifeblog Multimedia Diary, a blogging application developed by Nokia that's going to be unveiled next week at the Cebit show in Germany.Lifeblog is a very interesting app: one that pulls multimedia messages, SMS messages, annotations and video files off your Nokia Series 60 mobi, and creates a digital diary, arranged in chronological order. It's a bit like iPhoto for mobile phones (although, ironically, it will appear only for Windows PCs in its first incarnation). You can search through the application on your PC, and deposit favourite messages back on the mobile, all through a very slick interface that works horizontally (rather than vertically like this weblog) and without hierarchy. Lifeblog will work with a range of Series 60 phones yet to be launched (they arrive this summer).A disappointment is that the app does not publish to the web. At least,yet. The third bit of news from our chat, apart from v1.0 of Lifeblog, and the phones, is that Nokia has been experimenting withTypepad, the weblogging app. There's nothing going to happen between Nokia and Six Apart just yet, it seems, but Lindholmhas a Typepad weblogand is experimenting away. He sees publishing your memories as being very important, and I suspect Typepad is the best bet to do that - unless Nokia decides to do its own thing.Blogging, finally, for the mainstream? This could get very interesting indeed - and yet the mobile networks may not like it one little bit, I suspect. More on that - plus a screenshot - in Thursday's Online.
Britain and the United States are to work together to shut down violent sex websites, it emerged today.Officials on both sides of the Atlantic will decide how to act against extreme pornographic sites, which were implicated in the trial of the man who killed Brighton teacher Jane Longhurst.Initial steps were agreed by the home secretary, David Blunkett, during a meeting with the US deputy attorney general, Jim Comey, at the department of justice in Washington DC.Longhurst's family met Mr Blunkett in London last week as part of their campaign to ban sites that feature necrophilia and other extreme sexual acts.Mr Blunkett's official spokesman said: "The department of justice was very interested in what we had to say and we agreed it was a significant problem, not in terms of numbers but in terms of the evil of these sites."We agreed a specific group of officials would meet jointly to work out what the next stage would be."We also agreed we would put our heads together to get some action on the issue."The deputy attorney general said it was something they had been increasingly concerned about."Mr Blunkett's spokesman added: "The home secretary briefed the US officials on the Jane Longhurst case and they were horrified by the details."Longhurst was strangled by musician Graham Coutts, 35, from Hove, East Sussex, just hours after he viewed websites such as Necrobabes and Hangingbitches.He was jailed for life for murdering the young special needs teacher, whose corpse he stashed in a storage unit for 35 days.Coutts visited the body 10 times during that time.The spokesman noted the legal implications of a crackdown were "more complicated" than banning child pornography, for example, because of the first amendment in the US, which establishes freedom of expression.But possible action could involve work with internet service providers and credit card companies, whose services enable users to pay to access porn on the web, he added.
Martha Lane Fox, former dotcom co-founder of online travel site Lastminute.com, yesterday sold 20% of her stake in the business.Last November Ms Lane Fox quit her executive role at the company she founded with fellow Oxford graduate Brent Hoberman six years ago, saying she wanted a new challenge.Yesterday she gave herself a healthy cushion against any prolonged period of unemployment by selling 2m shares at 230p netting &#163;4.6m. She still retains 8.2m shares. Yesterday's closing price was 231.5p - down 3.5p .There has been speculation ever since her departure that the 30-year-old will not be out of work for long. She is rumoured to have been approached by Selfridges owner and Canadian billionaire Galen Weston to join his team. Along with Selfridges, Mr Weston owns furniture store Heal's through his Wittington operation.Talks between the two are rumoured to have been helped by Allan Leighton who is chairman of Lastminute and also sits on the board of Selfridges.But when Ms Lane Fox appeared on Radio 4's Desert Island Discs at the New Year she admitted that the only firm job offers she had so far received were to lead a recruitment drive for the army and be the frontwoman for lawn bowls. She turned down both jobs on account of being both anti-war and not very sporty.Lastminute.com chief executive Brent Hoberman said yesterday that he was not surprised that his former colleague had decided to sell some of her shares in the business, but stressed that the market should be reassured by the fact that she had not offloaded all her stock."There's no surprise that she is selling out, but I think there may be some surprise that she has only sold 20%," he said. "It is a sign that Martha still does believe in the business."Ms Lane Fox's resignation from her role as managing director coincided with the company reporting its first ever full year of profits.
As far as I was aware Boka Arufu had never heard of me. This West African militiaman, a onetime associate of limb chopper Foday Sankoh, was not the kind of person I would normally expect to come across.He was a participant in one of the worst regional wars in Africa and was looking to offload some hot diamonds. I am a London-based journalist too in denial of my own bank details to give them out at the first whiff of an unethical business opportunity.Little did he know it, but Arufu would reaffirm the grudging pleasure I take in spam. A recent deluge of offers of diet pills and hair restoring tonics had left me missing the offers of easy money from the tumult of Africa. And not all the diamonds in Sierra Leone could beat the feeling of having it back.There was a time when this type of spam was ubiquitous. The kind of people who follow it identified such scams as the 419 subtype, named after the relevant section of Nigeria's criminal code, and there was a certain charm to it.The long letters to "business associates" would, if the "business propositions" were ignored, give you a reasonable idea of which dictator had ruled where and how long they had been dead. It was also impossible to ignore that Mobuto Sese-Seko of Zaire and Nigeria's Sani Abacha had been remarkably corrupt if their relatives had all that money to share in return for me laundering it.An exhibition in New York last month took this a little further and celebrated the peculiar aesthetic of the emails. Subtitled Fossils from the Golden Age of Spam, it raised the question of what future historians would make of our era if spam were all they had to go on. Imagine if we really did live in a sex and diet obsessed world, where large parts of one continent had endured decades of conflict and wealth-hoarding dictatorships.We may get the spam we deserve in a wider karmic sense but that does not stop it being a pain, and there are various plans to end the flow. Microsoft boss Bill Gates made the headlines in January when he promised - somehow, but no one quite knew how - to put an end to spam within two years.Last week he announced a system based on a calculation attached to each email (hashcash.orghas been suggesting something similar) that would take the sending computer a few seconds to compute, therefore slowing the rate at which major spammers can send out millions of emails around the clock.But spam does not just come from the spam barons. A regular PC infected with a virus - a virus machine - can send out spam. You can send enough emails if you have enough machines doing your bidding.Europe and the US have passed laws as concern has grown. The US act follows the American fashion for turning legislation into snappy acronyms. The USA Patriot Act promised to "unite andstrengthenAmerica byprovidingappropriatetools" etc., and the Can-Spam act was all aboutcontrolling theassault ofnon-solicitedpornographyandmarketing. However, its detractors say it literally means you can spam because the act puts the onus on the email user to opt out of mailing lists.Lindsay Marshall, a senior lecturer in computer science at Newcastle university, points out that the volume of spam most people receive has not decreased since Can-Spam or the European directives outlawing the trash emails were passed at the end of last year. He is also scathing about the fact email users should be forced to opt out of spammers' lists."Why should you trust these people?" he asks. "Most of them are criminals. If it is coming from a legitimate business, and you know it is from a legitimate business, there should be a removal box &#91;on the email&#93; and it should work.""But the vast majority of spam is still from people who are breaking the law in some country somewhere, and it is still coming out of virus machines. This is the whole point about stupid laws - criminals don't obey the law by definition. So they are not going to obey new laws."Marshall does not believe there is a simple way to conquer spam - or that it should be made harder for individuals to email, or that switching over to new ways of emailing are especially viable - but thinks getting the internet service providers to clean up their acts and throttle large numbers of emails from a single connection would be a start.The crudest anti-spam weapons are the keyword blockers, the pieces of software that detect giveaways such as "Viagra". The battle between spam and the blockers has put the emails under an extreme evolutionary pressure.Like living organisms on a speeded-up laboratory camera, English mutates before our eyes and such magnificent misspellings as "guanarteed to work or your menoy back" enter our inboxes.   Or utterly nonsensical subject fields such as "Careful Foxhall Mafia", a favourite for its suggestion of organised crime, a tense gathering and foxes.Spammers used to boast to those to whom they wanted to sell their mailing lists that anyone on the receiving end had to read the subject field at least. You can see there is a point where this will stop working.A more advanced method of anti-spam is that employed by Spamhaus, the UK-based group that maintains a database of IP addresses of spam sources. It supplies this information to organisations and email hosts that want to keep their systems free of bulkmailed junk.Itsregister of known spam operations, an additional service, lists bulkmailers who have been thrown off internet service providers three times or more. It is also a far better read. "Spamgang with east European roots, Latvia and Romania. They do some porn spam, but seem most heavily into pharmaceuticals," reads one.The changing aliases of spam masters and their associates - this list contains many of the 200 people believed to be responsible for 90% of all spam - are tracked and kept on the register until the operations cease spamming for six months, therefore offering them the chance to enter legitimate business. Until then the service will tell you where they live, their email addresses and phone numbers.Anti-spam is a growing business with software firms and others offering you a life free, or at least more free than present, of the irritant of random and unwanted emails. But beware, there are some sharks about. One email I received recently read: "Hi, If you hate S pam like I do, you o w e it to yourself to try this, and send this email to all of your friends. Together lets clear the Internet of S P A M!"Predictably, it was a piece of spam. Maybe its sender knew Boka Arufu.
