Unplugged: Jeffrey LewisWhat's your favourite piece of technology and why?I really like my little, old cassette Walkman. I think it cost about $30.Is it good for your art?It's great. I can prop it up on the windowsill by my drawing desk and listen to tapes all day long while I drawcomic books. It runs on just two AA batteries, which last for about a week. This is especially helpful when I'm in my shack in the woods in Maine where I have no electricity. And if I make up a song, melody, lyrics or guitar part, I can just hit the record button and commit it to a tape right then and there before forgetting anything.When was the last time you used it, and what for?On the nine-hour bus ride back home to New York City from Maine, I plugged in a pair of headphones I'd stolen from an airline and listened to tapes all the way. I noticed everyone else listening to music on the bus had an iPod and I realised that even if I'd been listening to a CD discman I'd be considered obsolete - a tape Walkman is like from the Stone Ages. I just carry a plastic bag full of cassettes - I never look at what I'm putting on next, I just reach into the bag and pop a new tape in. It's always a thrill waiting for the first notes to start. It's like an analogue shuffle function!What additional features would you add if you could?The only thing I can think of to complain about is the relative bulkiness of cassettes - my plastic bag full of tapes takes up a lot more room in my travel bag than a CD-book would. I guess there's a reason they're called compact discs.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Tapes are obsolete already, which is a shame. I'm sure there are lamentations on the death of the mix tape too numerous and poignant for me to reopen the topic here.What one tip would you give to non-Walkman users?Fill up every last minute of available tape. At the end of each cassette side, after I've taped whatever record, there's often at least a couple minutes left of available space, and I generally fill this with tracks from 60s garage/psych compilations. It's always such a nice treat to get to the end of a tape side and be happily surprised by the bonus tracks I'd forgotten I'd put there.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I guess anybody reading this will assume I'm a luddite, but I'm not against digital stuff at all, I use it plenty.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I had a car once. It was $350, and then I had to put another hundred or so into making it run.Mac or PC?PC for my desktop at home, Mac for the laptop I carry on tour. No reason, it just ended up that way.What song is at the top of your iPod's Top 25 Most Played?I don't have an iPod, but Phil Ochs' I Ain't Marching Anymore LP is currently on the top of my turntable and a bootleg tape of Jim Carroll's Catholic Boy album is in my Walkman.Will robots rule the world?Knowledge is always power. Those who are technologically able to control what information is spread, who is watched and how, and the weapons systems - this small percentage of the population will be in charge, until the masses of people become computer-literate enough to fight for their own rights.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Maybe a big scanner.Jeffrey Lewis releases his fourth album, 12 Crass Songs – a collection of tracks by punk band Crass that he has reworked into folk, rock, psychedelic, orchestral and electronica productions - onRough Trade Recordsthis autumn. He tours the UK and Ireland from September 16.
I've spent a decade trying to get friends off Hotmail, partly because it's dangerous - neglect to log on for 30 days, and Microsoft could delete all your stuff.Now I've changed tack, and I'm nagging the hopelessly recalcitrant to upgrade toWindows Live Hotmailinstead. It works better, has up to 5MB of storage and, if you don't log on, Microsoft doesn't delete your email for 120 days - though I still much prefer Google's Gmail.People tend to stick with Hotmail because it's hard work changing a familiar old address, and because all their friends use Microsoft Messenger for instant messaging.Well, Microsoft is now trying to give users even more reasons to stick around. Just load Windows Live Hotmail in Internet Explorer 6 or Firefox 1.5 or later and have a look. The menu down the left provides links to your Today page, contacts and calendar. Along the top are buttons for Home, Hotmail, Spaces (a blogging site), and the OneCare maintenance service, as well as a prominent search box.Home? Hit that and you'll find links to your SkyDrive online hard drive space, Gallery (for photos), and Favorites, which is a place to store links to websites online.By the way, you can also download a toolbar, a desktop email program called Windows Live Mail, and Writer, which is a little word processor for posting to blogs. All these are part of Windows Live, which Microsoft is pitching with the slogan: "Your online world gets better when everything works together."Windows Live Mail is the offline component of the Live Hotmail service, and replaces Outlook Express. When you install it, it will load your old email and automatically collect new mail from multiple accounts, Usenet postings and RSS feeds. It's pretty slick, for a beta.Windows Live Hotmail is a dramatic improvement on the original Hotmail, and it needs to be. It's an RIA or Rich Internet Application, like Gmail. When you log on, you have to wait while it downloads code from the server. After that, however, you get a more responsive application that lets you do things like select a bunch of emails and drag then to a different folder.But it's the integration that is key to Microsoft's strategy.In the early days of the PC, people tended to pick "best of breed" applications from different companies. Usually, they didn't work together.In the early days of the web, people tended to use different sites from different companies, which also didn't work together. The PC problem helped the adoption of Microsoft Office, which was sold as a suite. The idea is that the Windows Live suite can solve today's problem of incompatible web sites.But Microsoft isn't the only company taking this approach. Yahoo has been doing it better since the 90s, and Google is just starting to patch its hodge-podge of stuff together. Offering a suite won't, on its own, be enough to win. But at least Microsoft is now in the game.
After DennisChow's rousing speech in the comments section oflast week's update, skates have been strapped on and the WikiGame's progress has sped up. I've discovered that the Text Adventure Adventure now has more places to visit than the smelly old, rickety, broken down, not-very-stable-looking, could-fall-over-if-pushed bus shelter.Check it out.I had no idea that I could leave it, you see, and to that end (and because I'm sure there are people out there who will give up as quickly as I do), I've asked for Hints to be woven into the plot. Are hints cheating? I look forward to the first walkthru ongamefaqs.The first chapter's puzzles are mostlymapped outand Bob, the (current) main character, has now met several villagers. None of them seem at all pleased to see him. Not a surprise, of course, as they recently shot another stranger in the not-so-distant past. Before I give away any more of the story, I'd like to make a request for a reason why an unappealing and blood-thirsty crow would feature in the story. The reason is that I've got the hint already lined up for the best way to destroy it, but no crow yet integrated into the puzzle line.The fun continues!
Warning: do not read this post if you are offended by the use of a four-letter word beginning with F (hint: it's not "fake").There's currently a minor storm on Facebook because of a group or groups calledFuck Islam-- there are several with the same name, but this one currently has 769 members. According toThe New York Times:In the month or so since the group was created, the reaction has been building across Facebook. As of the weekend, more than 58,000 Facebook members had joined a group that said that unless the anti-Islam group was removed, "we r quitting Facebook."Oddly enough, there doesn't seem to be a similar furore about groups such asFuck Christianity,Fuck Jews,Fuck Israel, and many more.It's something of a surprise that Facebook allows users to create groups with the F-word in the title, but it could startcleaning the stablesby deleting all of them.
More details have emerged of Dave Perry's "top secret" collaboratively developed massively multiplayer online game (MMO). Or as he puts it:"The 'Top Secret' team is where the concept of Web 2.0 meets the video game industry. We've had close to 50,000 people sign up to help design this game. The best participant will win a future Acclaim title to direct".A prize of $1 million is up for grabs with indies, pros and amateurs all encouraged to get involved indevelopmentof the title, loosely described as a "beast racing game". While we're unlikely to get a challenger to World of Warcraft there could be something worthwhile from this. But will egos eventually get in the way?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
Google has linked up with IT consultancy and outsourcing specialist CapGemini to target corporate customers with its range of desktop applications, in the search engine's most direct move against the dominance of Microsoft.CapGemini, which already runs the desktops of more than a million corporate workers, will provide its customers with "Google Apps" such as email, calendar, spreadsheets and word processing.CapGemini is one of Microsoft's partners for its new Vista operating system and will continue to use products from Microsoft and Lotus Notes owner IBM, but adding Google is a vote of confidence in the company's applications. CapGemini is already installing Google Apps in its first major corporate customer."Microsoft is an important partner to us as is IBM," said the head of partnerships at CapGemini's outsourcing business, Richard Payling. "In our client base we have a mix of Microsoft users and Lotus Notes users and we now have our first Google Apps user. But CapGemini is all about freedom, giving clients choice of the most appropriate technology that is going to fit their business environment."Google's applications such as its Google Docs word processing and spreadsheet service allow several people to work on one document and see changes in real time."If you look at the traditional desktop it is very focused on personal productivity," said Robert Whiteside, Google enterprise manager, UK and Ireland. "What Google Apps brings is team productivity."CapGemini will collect the &pound;25 licence fee charged by Google for its applications, which launched in February.It will make further revenues from helping clients use the new applications, providing helpdesk services and maintenance. It will also provide help with corporate security, especially for applications such as email, as well as storage and back-up services.CapGemini expects customers to mix and match products, providing some users with expensive Microsoft tools and others with cheaper and lower-spec Google Apps.
The New York Times has a big feature onDell, which is now refocusing its efforts under founder Michael Dell. It says:The new internal marketing slogan is "One Company, One Brand, One Beat."It has been overtaken as the No 1 PC seller by Hewlett-Packard, which was better placed to capitalise on the growth of notebook PC sales, particularly through retail outlets. That's a problem being addressed by Mark Jarvis, who joined as chief marketing officer in April.Mr Jarvis, a former Oracle executive, says Dell's brand is widely known and respected, but often not linked to a clear message. So he wants to give the brand a makeover, saying that in the consumer market, it needs to be "much cooler and go away from low prices; a lot of people see us as a cheap PC company, and that's not where we want to be."Yeah, good luck with that one, Mark.Update: The Wharton Business School has a good look atDell's turnaround strategy, available as text or audio download.
Gunslot has produced a list of theTop 25 Best Selling Video Games Of All Time, by sales of separate games. That means it doesn't include the tens of millions of copies of Super Mario Bros bundled with theSNES or, for that matter, Microsoft's Solitaire.But if you are interested in games, you should probably skip the list altogether. It is dominated by Nintendo, with the top title being Pokémon Red, Blue and Green. Nintendogs is in fourth place with 14.75 million copies sold.Half-Life? Quake? Doom? Civilization? Sim City? Championship Manager? Elite? Sorry, none of those makes the list at all.....But the thing that's really strange is that Zelda doesn't make the Top 25 either.
MarineSniper1000 (11:14:11 PM):i will be with u forever honey always and foreverTalHotBlondbig50 (11:15:10 PM):i have to do thisMarineSniper1000 (11:15:46 PM):r u deleting me off ur computerTalHotBlondbig50 (11:16:49 PM):not yetBut the online deceit led to a real-lifemurder. The longer version is now inWired, or you could wait for the movie....
What, we are occasionally invited to consider in these worried days, would Jesus drive? It's a fair question. But let's up the ante a little. What would God drive? And I think the answer would have to be an Aston Martin Vantage Roadster.I'm not saying it would be His only car. Like as not, He would probably decide he needed something more practical for work. But I think it would figure under His carport, a prominent and proudly enjoyed part of His personal fleet in those cut-loose moments.A controversial choice? Quite possibly. The Vantage Roadster isn't the top-of-the-range Aston Martin Vanquish. It is, in a manner of speaking, the "baby Martin", in the way the Continental GT favoured by footballers and TV chefs is the "baby Bentley". It certainly isn't from the DB series, with its rich heritage of product placement in Bond movies and its terrifying performance statistics. Bond, one feels, wouldn't settle for a soft top. It messes with the aerodynamics and the handling, and besides, the ejector seat might catch on the canvas on the way up and rip it. But just look at it. And just listen to it. And just drive it.I certainly enjoyed it, anyway. I can see how, at &pound;91,000, it's not going to be within everybody's budget. And I can see how the two-seater aspect makes it hard for the Roadster to cut it, in any straightforward sense, as a family runabout. But otherwise, what's not to like?Actually, I thought of something. When you turn the key, a message briefly appears on the dash, reading "Power, Beauty, Soul". Which certainly beats "Oil Pressure Warning - Seek Service". At the same time, would it not be more dignified if the car took its own beauty, passion and soul for granted, rather than laboriously spelled it out?Ah well, it's the only detail over which you might reasonably quibble with Aston Martin for missing the tone. Everything else about this Vantage seemed to me to be pitch perfect, from the generously leathered luxury of its cockpit, via the firm, parental reassurance of its mighty brakes, through to the split-second, two-octave glissando performed by the engine every time you push the start button.True, it's not the kind of car in which you can hope to go unnoticed. People stop, stare and point. Sometimes, when it is parked, they pull over in their own cars and get out to have a look around. But the attention is almost entirely well-disposed, cheery even. Certainly the scathing contempt and graphic vitriol bestowed automatically upon Porsche owners seems to be no part of the Aston Martin experience.On a golden summer's evening, for no particular reason, I drove the Vantage Roadster with its top down, on nearly empty roads in a green and rolling part of Hampshire. A series of brightly striped hot-air balloons passed decoratively overhead, as if summoned by a director to complete this bucolic scene, and, for a short while, I was as happy as I have ever been behind the wheel of a car. God was in his heaven. And I was in His Aston Martin.
BioshockXbox 360And so the summer comes to an end with the first of the autumn blockbusters, this one a first person shooter set in gorgeously dilapidated, art deco, underwater city, Rapture. Found after the plane you're on crashes into the sea, exploration rapidly uncovers a genetically modified undersea paradise gone very bad indeed, with its former residents reduced to vicious, gibbering "splicers", driven mad by over-engineering their bodies in much the same way you need to in order to survive. Dark, spooky and endlessly engaging, Bioshock's atmosphere of dread and decay set a new standard and make its corridor-wandering rarely less than nail biting. A staggeringly rich game that retains its cinematic elegance from start to finish.&#183;2K Games, &pound;45Trauma Center: Second OpinionNintendo WiiTrauma Center: Second Opinion is a surgical simulator that puts you in charge of complex medical procedures using the Wii-remote and nunchuk as scalpel, forceps, antibiotic gel applicator and defibrillator paddles. Wii-make of a Nintendo DS game, this retains its little brother's intuitive interface, unabashedly American spelling and story told in melodramatic anime still frames, whilst adding a new playable character and some entirely fresh operations. Excise tumours, outwit mutating viruses and help security forces operate on a bomb - all in a day's work for junior doctor Derek Stiles. Sadly, like its Nintendo DS counterpart, this suffers from savage spikes in difficulty level, turning a blood-soaked jaunt into a nightmare of ticking time and fibrillating patients, so it's great fun until, suddenly, it isn't. Even in easy mode, its demands are just too exacting to be entertaining unless frequent meaningless defeat is the kind of thing that gets your pulse racing.&#183;Nintendo, &pound;40Blazing Angels 2PC, PS3, Xbox 360Videogames and the second world war show no signs of emerging from their honeymoon period - understandably so when you consider the rich backdrop and noble pre-existing excuse for shooting people it provides. In Blazing Angels 2, your justification for killing Germans is intensified by the discovery of a plot to build a Nazi super-weapon. Saving the allies involves a reasonable variety of aerial dogfights in a range of increasingly experimental antique planes. Favouring a simplistic flying model designed to welcome beginners, it unfortunately also features some brutally testing mission goals that demand numerous attempts to complete. Combined with the game's ludicrously awful photographic cut scenes with stuck-on cartoon word bubbles, Blazing Angels 2 does not stand out as a classic in its genre.&#183;Ubisoft, &pound;40-&pound;50
MondayGamesblog Text Adventure AdventureWii vs PS3: gap is catergorically NOT closingGames Media Awards finalists announced!TuesdayStreet Wars Brighton &amp; HoveWomen on screenMore PS3 hypeWednesdaySocial networking and multiplayer gamesTime Magazine on Halo 3Mass musicThursdayStorytelling and BioshockWii and coffeeVideo Gamea Live CDIf second Life were realScottish game development: the movieFridayWhy Wii?How have games influenced YOU?
Apple accused NBC of wanting to double the price of TV programme downloads, but Variety magazine reckons Apple is actually trying to halve the price.Variety says:According to three people familiar with the proposal, Apple has told networks and studios that it would like to slash the cost of most TV episodes sold via iTunes from the current $1.99 to just 99¢ -- the same as what Apple charges for most music singles.Also:Apple's argument to studios and nets has been that they will end up making more money from digital downloads under the new proposal. Company believes the volume of sales for TV shows will rise dramatically, offsetting the impact of the price cut.Since the same shows are very widely and easily availablefreevia peer-to-peer file sharing services, it's a pretty good bet that Apple is right about the pricing. However, as Variety points out, the networks also have to think about the effect on other markets, such as DVD.
We've been covering the spat between Apple and NBC over the pricing of TV programmes on iTunes, and howNBC hopes Hulu and Amazon will mean it doesn't need iTunes(below). So I was just looking atAmazon Unbox-- where NBC appeared a couple of weeks ago, alongside the BBC, Fox, CBS etc -- and all the shows still seem to be priced at $1.99, for US users.That includes the NBC series, Heroes, The Office, and 30 Rock.In other words, Amazon's flexible Unbox pricing is currently identical to the iTunes Store's inflexible $1.99 flat rate.Another advantage of Unbox is that, like other Microsoft-based online services, it allows for rentals as well as purchases. For example, you can rent the 300 movie for 99 cents, buy the download for $14.99 or buy the DVD for $22.99. However, I can't actually see any NBC TV programmes that are offered for rent.It's early days, of course, and things may change.The bad news for Mac users is that Amazon Unbox uses its own player, which requires 32-bit Windows XP, or a TiVo. And although downloads will play on a portable player such as the Creative Zen Vision M, they are not designed for iPods.
TechCrunch UK &amp; Irelandis now, as promised, back in operation, nine months after it closed. The last proper post (Wingmap flies new approach to flight search) was made onDecember 13by Mike Butcher, and the today'sWelcome backpost was made by ... Mike Butcher, who is now editing the site.Yes, it does seem to have taken rather a long time for TechCrunch to have made such an obvious move, but that's life.The site has hit the ground running, with theannouncementof "the winners ofSeedcamp, the new incubator-style event for European startups". It covers the six sites that will get investor funding, from the 20 startups presented.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
We're often being told about the influence videogames wield over the young and impressionable in modern society. Is this a negative influence, turning us into addicted couch slobs, wallowing in our own sweat and spilled pizza fat? Or is it somehow positive, providing a greater challenge and social buzz than slumping in front of Celebrity Morris Dancing 5 for hours on end, turning away only to jab in a mobile phone vote hoping to flush one onscreen specimen of human slurry back down their beckonging career toilet?The questions for this friday, then: what have games made you try in real-life - good or bad? Have you ever been inspired by a game to read a specific book or watch a movie? Have you taken up a sport because the game version was fun? Have you become involved in a minor pub scuffle and attempted a dragon punch? Or even better, a spinning bird kick?I have to admit, I read a couple of the urban planning books mentioned in the Sim City bibliography at the back of the instruction manual. I got really interested inFEMAandMount Weatherafter interviewing Warren Spector about Deus Ex 2. I also once attempted aScandinavian Flickin my old Volvo 340 after playing Colin McRae Rally for several hours...How about you?
So the Wii is the biggest thing since sliced bread.Everyone'ssaying it, so it must be true. Yet I, as a veteran Nintendo-phile, have my concerns. They have nothing to do with the common gamer protests that Nintendo is alienating the hardcore gaming elite with a battery of casually-slanted software releases. Rather, I fear that the swathes of non-gamers who are pouring money into the coffers of Nintendo Corp., in a deluge resembling the hysteria surrounding Cabbage Patch Kids, Rubik's Cubes and Thunderbirds HQs, are going to quickly realise that they've spent a whole load of cash on something that is most probably a gimmick.Not that I think Nintendo intends their hardware to be perceived in such a way. I'm sure that they will continue to build software and applications of the same extraordinary quality which they always have done. The question, instead, lies with whether they can continue to woo the casual gamer long after every copy of Wii Sports has been sent into retirement.While it may have taken the PlayStations and Xboxes of this world longer to amass the profound number of sales which the Wii boasts, those consoles had a potential longevity built into them because of the people who bought them. Gamers, in other words, who carried the legacies of brands, hardware and play-mechanics with them. The Wii, on the other hand, has been very popular amongst people who've never owned a console before. Who knows what they expect from a machine?It does have a very powerful asset, which really has been the secret to its success: a controller which can be used in a profound number of ways, many of which are demonstrated in the very simple simulations in WiiSports and Wii Play. But as the trajectory of the PS2's EyeToy demonstrates, newfangled controller styles often present challenges to traditional designers (many of whom are jumping on board the Wii-wagon) simply because they're so different to those which have come before. And after a while, the new functionality is discarded in favour of tried-and-tested products which the (non-casual, profit-bearing) games buying public will hand over the cash for.The success of the console on the level of the other two machines relies very much upon those casual WiiSports players to make the crucial crossover to deeper, more "meaningful" games like Zelda and Metroid. But here's the clincher: if they've not engaged with these IPs yet, why will a Wiimote inspire them to do so?So unfortunately, the success of the casual-slant present in the Wii's unique selling point means that more casual games will have to be released that are of good quality, on a more regular basis in order to keep the attentions of the casual gamers who may suddenly realise that the white box sitting next to their TVs has been lost under a layer of dust.While the Wii's success is something for every Nintendo fanboy (and girl) to celebrate, we shouldn't break the champagne out yet. At least not until the fat, moustachioed plumber sings.
Microsoft has been the object of much crowing, and very little commiseration, over the fact that its Office Open XML specification (not to be confused, which I initially did, with the Open Office XML specification)did not get fast-track standards approvalearlier this week. Accusations of packed national boards and brown envelopes that wouldn't have displeased Neil Hamilton have flown about. But among the material reasons given for rejection is that OOXML still relies, to some extent, on "legacy" formats - that is, Microsoft's own home-grown internal standards, which it isn't letting out to anyone.The problem with legacies, as Microsoft knows really well - and we all discover - is that they're so hard to shake off. And within Microsoft, some legacies, and their associated weird bugs, are so deeply embedded that there is truly no way that it could shake them off without abandoning the millions of users who already use its products, and causing them all sorts of pain.A most beautiful illustration of this comes from Joel Spolsky, who once worked at Microsoft back when it was comparatively small. The full tale,My first BillG review(which you should take the time to read) explains why Excel and Visual Basic don't quite agree on whether there was a day between February 28th 1900 and March 1st 1900, and how he was saved from being chewed out by Bill Gates by discovering this before that crucial review."It's a bug in Excel!" I exclaimed."Well, not really," said Ed. "We had to do it that way because we need to be able to import Lotus 123 worksheets.""So, it's a bug in Lotus 123?""Yeah, but probably an intentional one. Lotus had to fit in 640K. That's not a lot of memory. If you ignore 1900, you can figure out if a given year is a leap year just by looking to see if the rightmost two bits are zero. That's really fast and easy. The Lotus guys probably figured it didn't matter to be wrong for those two months way in the past. It looks like the Basic guys wanted to be anal about those two months, so they moved the epoch one day back."And it all led to a meeting with BillG which had the lowest "f" count that anyone present, possibly including Bill himself, could recall. Where the "f" word is, well, the f-word, which Bill used to express disapproval. Strongly.But doing things like that - building an empire by sucking up the remains of the previous ones like Lotus 1-2-3 - have left Microsoft raddled with baggage it can't let go. Thus the OOXML standard fell afoul of our own British Standards Institution (BSI), which put its ownobjections on its wiki, with comments such as "OOXML ... does not provide an explicit mapping of the legacy binary formats' layout features to the new XML format, instead wrapping them in elements such as ... autoSpaceLikeWord95 (Emulate Word 95 Full-Width Character Spacing)." The BSI adds: "The 'informative' guidance given for elements like this one contains the following statement:"'To faithfully replicate this behavior, applications must imitate the behavior of that application, which involves many possible behaviors and cannot be faithfully placed into narrative for this Office Open XML Standard. If applications wish to match this behavior, they must utilize and duplicate the output of those applications. It is recommended that applications not intentionally replicate this behavior as it was deprecated due to issues with its output, and is maintained only for compatibility with existing documents from that application.'"In other words, if you want it to work, do it like we used to - except don't, because it's broken; we only kept it because we have to.You might think that behaviour like this is the sort of evil, nasty stuff that only Microsoft would resort to, in an effort to shore up its crumbling monopoly. Yeah, sure. Microsoft has to keep all those weird behaviours in for the garbillions of documents that people have produced down the years and then discover they want to open years later. (Ask Jack gets one or two people with related issues every week.) It's called "helping the customer".And the fact is, in the world of computing things get changed all the time, and in order not to break everything you have to put in certain weird workarounds.I know this at first hand. You may have noticed, for example, that the look (and if you're using a force-feedback mouse, feel) of this part of Guardian Unlimited has changed substantially in the past few weeks. But it's not just look: all the URLs have changed too. (Notice how they don't end with ".html"? Neat, eh? The search engines lap it up.) Underneath, all the HTML has changed too - substantially. Which means that all the scripts I had painstakingly written 18 months ago to neatly download the links to every story in the weekly section each Thursday morning now break. As do my scripts to track the blog. I'll have to go back and rewrite them. The neat thing is that we've done the work around the back though so that the old URLs you posted in your blog will still link to the modern URLs. Given that there must be a few million of them, that's hardly trivial. But it is necessary. Maybe Guardian Unlimited will never achieve ISO certification. But if you get what you want, does it matter?
I want to enlarge the type on my Windows XP computer.Doris BridgeRight-click on the desktop and select Properties, then click the tab for Appearance. There's a drop-down menu for Font Size that lets you select Normal, Large or Extra Large
Ted Pollard couldn't get Quicken 98 working on his new PC, running Windows XP. Terry Shillito says he used LapLink's PC Mover to transfer the Quicken 98 (Year 2000 Edition) program and data. David Parkhill decided to move to Microsoft Money, but the latest versions of Money are incompatible with Quicken 98. He upgraded to Money 2002, bought on eBay, instead (tinyurl.com/2y5g3j). Stanley Russell wanted to move his Quicken data from a PC to a Mac. Mark Harrop says an alternative is to run the old Windows program on a Mac using BootCamp or Parallels: "I continue to use Quicken 2000 in this way because I had more than 12 years of information that I was reluctant to transfer to a different package." This works, but falling more than a couple of versions behind with an application can put your data at risk.
The disappearance of the National High-Tech Crime Unit (tinyurl.com/2rf4wu) isn't just a problem for large businesses. Its disappearance into the Serious Organised Crime Agency has left an investigative hole that can be exploited by professional fraudsters.What is worse is that the unit's disappearance means that crimes committed online might not be investigated by the local police for the victim - which in turn would mean that central statistics would not show the extent of e-crime, and the need for the reinstatement of the unit.Big problemIn the evidence submitted by the Federation of Small Businesses to the Lords Science and Technology Committee, when it was assembling its recent report on personal internet security, the organisation called for a central reporting mechanism for electronic crime.  Says Belinda Webb of the federation: "There has to be an official framework under which people who have suffered from e-crime can report it." The other big problem for the federation: there are  no national statistics on crime against businesses of any size, online or offline.But it is certainly happening. About two months ago I got ripped off on eBay by a fraudster styling themself "puppethup" who demanded payment by direct bank transfer, rather than the more usual PayPal, which offers buyer protection up to at least &pound;150. The usual sad story: payment was followed by non-arrival of the &pound;100 item. When I was contacted by a couple of other eBayers who'd been ripped off by the same person for upwards of &pound;200 each, it became clear this was a serial fraudster who had profited by at least &pound;600 over a couple of weeks, and that the correct thing to do was contact the police.With the NHTCU gone as a central point of contact, that meant the local police in each of our separate jurisdictions even though it was a single criminal - and in effect a single case."There is no national reporting point or response to many forms of hi-tech crime, including eBay fraud," says Peter Sommer, a research fellow in computer security at the London School of Economics. "Some police services can be induced to be mildly interested, but since the Home Office doesn't measure their effectiveness in this area, their motivation isn't that high. Some Trading Standards officers will check out bad traders within their area."My local police were in fact quite helpful. The fraudster's real bank details were of course known and the bank, the police said, was inclined to be helpful because two other police forces had already been in contact regarding this same fraudster.  It isn't, the police said, that they don't care, but that they can't investigate everything - and in the larger scheme of things, a &pound;100 auction fraud is a relatively small affair.But professional fraudsters are a different matter, and online auction fraud is one of the biggest sources of complaints to police forces.According to eBay, most disputed transactions are "sloppy sellers" - someone is on holiday when the auction closes, or who simply forgets about it. That sort of seller can be suspended for up to a month. If they repeat the offence enough times, they could be removed permanently.Adds eBay: "That is very different to how we deal with people acting fraudulently." The most common marker of a fraudster: taking the transaction off eBay by requiring payment by bank transfer, Western Union or cheque. Some 70% of eBay transactions are settled using PayPal, which in some cases provides buyer protection up to &pound;500 (and which eBay now owns). Most items sold on eBay are under &pound;150. Given that most police thresholds for investigation seem to be &pound;250, that in itself creates a loophole a professional fraudster can exploit to avoid being caught."With a deliberate fraudster," says eBay, "we work with the police to provide whatever they need to press for prosecution. If someone is deliberately defrauding people, we get them off the site permanently. The challenge there is to make sure the police will take it seriously and investigate even though these are small amounts." For security reasons, eBay declined to explain exactly how a deliberate fraudster is identified, given the ease of setting up new accounts.Reporting threshold"It's frustrating for us because we are not in a position where we can investigate crime," says eBay. "Law enforcement needs to do that." Each police force has a different view of which level of crime it will investigate; the threshold for fraud may be as high as &pound;1,000 in some cases. Because so many small businesses trade on eBay, fraud is a big issue for them.Michael Knowles of the Federation of Small Businesses, has personal experience of such fraud. When he sold a mobile phone on eBay last December, the buyer paid &pound;165 through PayPal. A month later, the service reversed the payment, saying the buyer's bank had not authorised it. Knowles has been unable to recover the money - or the phone.Ironically, my own fraudster cited these very problems with PayPal as the reason for insisting on a bank transfer. "First of all, PayPal offers absolutely no cover to the buyer if the seller has drawn the money out of their PayPal account into their bank account before a complaint is made. The buyer gets nothing," puppethup wrote, going on to say that it was safer to deal with "reputable high street banks" than with a "recently launched internet company".Because puppethup is based in Scotland, the complaint was transferred to the Strathclyde police, which will investigate complaints involving more than &pound;250. The force said that if it received more complaints involving the same fraudsters and those reports and mine all find each other in the database, it's possible the case might be investigated. In the meantime, check feedback carefully and stick to Paypal. Most people, after all, are honest.&#183; The Metropolitan Police's Fraud Alert page (met.police.uk/fraudalert) has a reporting form for online fraud and safety tips. EBay's Safety Centre (tinyurl.com/zosso) includes advice on buying safely
Long-term relationshipsThe best way for ISPs to make money is surely to keep the ones you have got long term (Making a play for customers, August 30). Not by extended handcuff contracts but by providing good service at a reasonable - not necessarily the lowest - price. I almost left Eclipse when its service plummeted. But recently Eclipse has gone back to giving me the service I need and I have now added its telephony. A happy customer is a profitable long-term customer.John Loader,ElyShown a red cardHaving taken part in testing card readers for a large UK bank, everything Anne Wollenberg (Technobile, August 30) says about them is wrong. The graphic accompanying her article is misleading too, as it shows a cable attached to the card reader: the reader does not connect to the PC. Your online banking service displays a code on screen to tap into the reader which then displays a response code to key back into the PC. Simple; and only needed to set up new payees.Jerry Tracey,West CalderApple's core ideaApple's iTunes DRM doesn't really protect music - it just protects the iPod (Which is worth more: DRM or music quality, August 30). It stops music bought on iTunes playing back on any MP3 player device that isn't an iPod. The major labels don't really want it. Consumers hate it.A  cynic might speculate that Apple's refusal to drop or license its iTunes DRM suggests that it's part of the philosophy of locking consumers into the Apple "ecosphere". Allofmp3.com was just behind iTunes this time last year as the leading UK music download shop. The allofmp3.com model was based on quality - it charged on file size - not by track. The downloads were DRM-free. It was also a jaw-dropping idea for the music industry, which realised that consumers were actually willing to give their credit card details to a known-to-be-operating-on-the-edge-of-the-law Russian website to download a low-quality version of an album instead of downloading the full-quality version for free via illegal P2P.Fergus Geraghty,ManchesterIn loco parentisSurely the secret to the best parental control is called parenting (Newly asked questions, August 30)?thehermesproject.blogspot.comMoral rights and wrongsDave Stewart is both wrong and unfair in his analogy (Letters, August 30). A strong moral argument can be made that James Mackenzie is still owns licences to his records even though his original media has been stolen or damaged. After all, if your TV is stolen or damaged you still have your TV licence. Obtaining a copy of the non-physical music data for which he already holds a licence is unjust to nobody. The data is duplicated at no cost. It is offensive and wrong to suggest that downloading under these circumstances is morally equivalent to theft.Daniel Rigal,GuildfordDon't knock GoogleHow can you call one the most exciting technological innovations of recent times mere indexing (Some things are freer than others, August 30)? Google spent years developing its algorithm. Search engines in pre-Google era were pathetic. Google's revenue model is also unique. So if it is coming up with the ideas then it deserves the dividend.rpriyedarshi.blogspot.comBanking on FirefoxPaul Godier is concerned, understandably, that the Post Office only supports Internet Explorer for its online banking (Letters, August 30). If Paul is using Firefox, he should download the ieTab extension (tinyurl.com/27zzqt) and then he will be able to open IE-specific pages.Mike Cushman,London
Backing up personal data is something that everyone means to do but few people actually take the time to. Polaroid's Media Back Up device, priced at &pound;69.99, is supposed to make backing up your photos so easy there's no excuse not to. It's simply a case of connecting this black box via USB and letting the computer do the rest. Once recognised, clicking "run software" will bring up the interface. From here it goes through your files, retrieving all photos and dumping them on the external hard drive. This includes photos sent to you as email attachments and those misfiled in bizarre and unlikely places, although you can change the files and locations it searches for. Uploading about 750 photos took no longer than two minutes, although with 40GB there's space for about 40,000. Once you've uploaded them, it's possible to set one as your desktop, email them, print them or burn them to a CD. You can also choose to restore all photos to the computer should the worst-case scenario occur. It really is made as simple as possible. Essentially just a hard drive with a simple user interface, it fills a gap for non-techies worried about losing their photos.boots.co.uk
Nokia is trying to save the mobile games industry again. Four years ago the company launched its N-Gage gaming phone which failed because it was too expensive, didn't have enough games and was shaped like those bowls nurses hand you to throw up in.Last week, alongside a high-profile move into music downloads, Nokia revealed plans for an N-Gage-branded mobile game download service, available to users of the company's latest handsets.At the moment, most would-be players use their network carrier's game portals, but these offer a limited roster of recommended titles, with spaces on the list bought by game publishers. It's been tricky to get back-catalogue goodies.N-Gage also allows users to try games before they buy them. In the past, all you had to go on was a game name and a screenshot - no wonder most only downloaded trusted classics such as Tetris. Perhaps now they'll experiment with a wider assortment of games.Try before you buy is an idea borrowed from Xbox Live, and it's not the only cue taken from Microsoft: N-Gage adds a community element, allowing users to take part in online multiplayer tournaments as well as seeing when mates are online and what their best scores are. This is something mobile publishers have attempted in the past - especially in the US - but N-Gage is global, coherent and network-independent. These are all vital factors.The N-Gage service will also allow gamers to download via PC and then sideload to their mobiles. Wi-Fi downloading straight to mobile is another option and both of these avoid another disincentive: data download prices. Network operators have woken up to this, either introducing "all you can eat" monthly tariffs or limiting the data charges to a certain daily amount. But nonetheless, we're instinctively averse to paying for delivery.The industry is cautiously optimistic about the N-Gage resurrection. Network providers are no doubt concerned about losing status and revenue, but they'll have to adapt.Stefan Labrunie of mobile games publisher I-Play sees N-Gage as part of a new era for the mobile industry, where traditional relationships between content providers, handset manufacturers and networks crumble. Out of this chaos, some good games might emerge. And we might even be able to find them.&#183; Get all the latest videogames news and gossip straight from our trio of bloggers atblogs.guardian.co.uk/games
Big in JapanPhone-readable QR (quick response) barcodes are being used to promote the UK launch of the DVD 28 Weeks Later.denso-wave.com28weekslaterdvd.co.uk/QRcodeCash for killsKwari is beta testing a first-person shooter where you pay for ammo and it costs real money every time you take a hit.kwari.comNoddy and youNoddy fans can now feature in their own Noddy book, with customised illustrations and text.mynoddybook.co.ukCreate a sceneBerlin Picture Company has launched a multimedia Windows program that offers "a completely new approach to scriptwriting".bpc-screenplay.comSony disconnectsSony is launching two Walkman digital media players, the NWZ-A810 and NWZ-S510, with support for Windows media and libraries instead of Sony's Connect.tinyurl.com/yv6oc4One for pop pickersVoting for the BT Digital Music Awards is now open until September 30.btdma.comTiscali TV rollingTiscali's broadband TV service (formerly Homechoice) is now available outside London. It should be available to 10m homes by Christmas.tiscali.co.ukBeasts of New YorkAward-winning author Jon Evans is serialising his latest work, "a children's book for adults", online - free.beastsofnewyork.com
It's not a proper computer crisis until you have forgotten what the trivial problem was you were trying to fix before catastrophe overwhelmed everything and left you sitting in front of lump of plastic that won't boot. So I couldn't honestly say why I decided to upgrade my desktop machine from Windows 2000 to Windows XP Service Pack 2 in the first place.It started, as these things must, with another piece of cleverness. About 6pm, the XP install program had warned me that I would need a manufacturer's driver for some hardware it had found. Offered the chance to upgrade with all my settings and programs preserved, I was too happy to worry. The installation took about 30 minutes to chumble through my settings until the last reboot, when the computer comes up as a proper XP machine. Then it took about 30 seconds until the next reboot. And 30 seconds more to the one after that, and the one after that ... I could not get the machine to start at all.I switched into safe mode. It still wouldn't start, but at least I could now see that it was falling over every time that it tried to load d346bus.sys, a driver I haven't used in years.Quick Googling established that this was a known problem with XP SP2: just one of those things. Since I didn't need the driver, I decided just to delete the files. I knew well enough that Windows XP has a recovery console to allow such tasks. I got there. It asked for the administrator's password. I gave it. I was told it was wrong. I gave it again, and once more. The machine rebooted. It would not accept the correct password.More frantic Googling, from the separate laptop kept untouched for this purpose. Ah: between Windows 2000 and XP, Microsoft changed the way the passwords are stored, and until you have completed the installation, the recovery console won't recognise the old password, without which the installation cannot be completed. Catch 22.OK, OK. I know what to do. Find a Linux live CD; boot up with that; delete the files that won't let me boot Windows; resume the installation. As it happened, I had one of those CDs. In fact, I had three different ones somewhere in the bookshelf. The first wouldn't boot at all; the second wouldn't read or write a Windows partition and the third wanted to install Ubuntu, so that was no good.Over to the Mac, then, to download a fresh copy of Knoppix. Now, it's not that there is anything wrong with Apple's way of burning CD images. It's just different, not obvious, and the help is on Google somewhere, not on Apple's site. The third time I burnt a disk it worked, and less than an hour after that the reinstallation was complete, and it was only 1.30 am. Around midnight, I had been able to admit that I was actually enjoying myself. This was partly because I knew that my data was safe. If the worst came to the worst, I would just have had to write this article on a different computer. In the meantime, the rather boring activity of working with computers had been transformed into a tantalising puzzle.Every time I failed to get the computer to reboot, another method would suggest itself, and I had to try it just to see if it worked. It was impossible to give up when I didn't know whether the next method would do the trick. It is this kind of compulsive tinkering instinct which drives some scientists: there's always one more experiment which will solve the problems raised by the last one. The instinct also has some kinship with the pleasure of making verse that rhymes and scans - especially when it has nothing profound to say - or of unlocking a long German sentence, when all the clauses tumble into sense.All demand a kind of playful ingenuity which brings back the absorbed and rapt quality of childhood. To use a Linux disk burned on a Mac to solve a problem on a Windows PC is no more perverse than anything I ever did in kindergarten. It may not be any more use, either. But that is hardly the point. If I tried to hammer different shaped pegs into different shaped holes, people would think me odder than if I merely sit up till 1.30am rebooting my computer.thewormbook.com/helmintholog
The Vario III is the latest in the T-Mobile smartphone line-up. Like all models, it's got a Qwerty keyboard that slides out from under the screen, but now the screen itself tips up at an angle, making it easier to view if you've got it sitting on a flat surface. Like the previous model, the Vario III features HSDPA for faster data transfers. As well as appearing quickly, web pages are optimised properly so there's no scrolling left and right to see the whole of the page. Improvements come in the operating system - Windows Mobile 6, which allows for push email. GPS is also now built in, along with a 3 megapixel camera. Unfortunately, while the camera has lots of useful features such as attaching pictures straight to contacts, there's no flash. The build of the Vario range may not to be to everyone's taste, as there's no doubt that the pull-out keyboard makes it one of the more bulky choices available.
I am the secretary for a small club and have always kept my records on floppy disks. When I put one in recently, the PC said the disk was not formatted. Is there a death sentence on these disks? Is there is a way to rescue the data?Sheila AsquithThere is a death sentence not just on floppies but on everything used in computing: PCs, hard drives, USB drives, tapes, CDs, DVDs, web-based systems and software. They are all going to fail eventually, so it's best to keep multiple copies of data using different systems. For example, before I've even finished this column, I'll paste it into Gmail and mail it to my Yahoo address. I save final documents online, on my desktop PC and on a USB thumb-drive for transfer to my notebook PC. The hard drives are backed up on CD-R.Floppy disks can be unreadable because of physical wear and tear, dirty drive heads, poor drive head alignment, misaligned track sensors, loose drive cables and similar problems, or because the boot sector or file index has become corrupted. If you can't read a floppy, write-protect it and try to copy the data to the hard drive of a different PC. If multiple PCs won't read it, you can try a floppy recovery program such as Recover Floppy Pro (http://www.bestdiskrecovery.com/), BadCopy Pro (http://www.downloadatoz.com/badcopy-pro/) or Dead Disk Doctor (http://www.topshareware.com/Dead-Disk-Doctor-download-46305.htm). There are lots of alternatives atFilebuzz. If all else fails, you may need a professional data recovery service, so try thissearch.
I've just noticed that email offers etc from the Guardian Media Group have an iffy email address, as in "chtah.com". Is this really the Guardian or are you being phished?Luke HowardThe chtah.com domain belongs to CheetahMail (cheetahmail.com), which is a well-established email marketing company owned by Experian.
This new Fuji digital camera, priced at &pound;129.99, is aimed squarely at teens and comes in seven bold colours with names such as wasabi green and sunset orange. Clearly, the specifications won't be the reason that this camera is chosen. Having said that, Fuji hasn't tried to hide shoddy specs under this bonnet. The camera is 7 megapixels, which is more than enough to print A4-sized photos. It features face detection, which identifies people in a shot and automatically adjusts the settings to get the correct exposure. Again, thinking of  its audience, Fuji has ensured that the 3x optical zoom doesn't extend from the camera body, which can often lead to accidental damage when the camera is chucked in a bag. There are certain elements that are genius and gimmicky in equal measures - for instance, the "auction" setting. It allows you to take three shots of a product and then arranges them into one composite image, which you can upload straight to eBay. There's also the ability to send photos wirelessly to other Fuji cameras, although it's questionable how useful this really is.amazon.co.uk
Final proof, if it were needed, that MySpace is, like, so last year. On Monday, Gordon Brown revealed not only had he heard of MySpace, but knew it was Britain's "biggest youth club". Let's not mock. The apparent spontaneity with which the prime minister recalled this web 2.0 brand name is refreshing. At the very least, it suggests that Brown has absorbed something of the landmark "Power of Information" report which the Cabinet Office published in June (tinyurl.com/2tlbc3), calling for the government to engage with and learn from new online phenomena.What role IT has to play in Brown's new politics, however, remains unclear. As yet, there is little sign of vision or leadership. One symptom is the way crucial responsibilities have been scattered at a low level between different government departments, or abolished altogether. In the new team, the minister in charge of implementing the "Transformational Government" strategy, the two-year-old programme to integrate core IT systems and improve the government's record in managing them, is Gillian Merron, a junior Cabinet Office minister with little more than a year's departmental experience.While the Cabinet Office may be the home of broad strategy, actual responsibility for day-to-day e-contacts between the government and citizens lies elsewhere. The Department for Work and Pensions runs the CIS citizens' identity database, supposed to underpin all government systems. From next April, the department will even take over the government's central web portal,direct.gov.uk. With these two responsibilities, the DWP will emerge as the main force in "e-government" - either that, or the mother of all large IT fiascos.Where does this leave the arm of the state most engaged with citizens, the local council? Out on a limb, apparently. Following Brown's ministerial shuffle, for the first time in 10 years there is no minister for local e-government. Local authority chiefs may regard the lack of minister as a blessing. Other "e" responsibilities, particularly the key one of digital inclusion, are scattered all over the shop. Following shake-ups at the industry and education ministries, a friend has counted seven different departments overseeing schemes designed to help hard-to-reach people get online. Better news is that Stephen Timms has taken on the information industries portfolio at the new Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform. As a former e-minister and chief secretary to the Treasury, Timms is in serious danger of becoming an expert. However, it is not clear what input he will have into the wider scheme.As the political calendar gets going over the next few weeks, we'll be looking for signs that the new government intends to depart from its previous policy of converging government websites, databases and contact centres into billion-pound systems supplied by multinational contractors. As the main exponent of that strategy, the industrialist Sir David Varney, remains Brown's adviser on service transformation, radical change appears unlikely. Convergence is seen as a way of making essential savings in the cost of the government machine.But "big is beautiful" does not seem to square with the new prime minister's professed enthusiasm for grassroots enterprise. On Monday he said: "I think if we celebrate where advances are made in the internet that encourage community action, encourage community networks, that would be a very good thing to do." Perhaps he could look at what the &pound;14bn a year his government spends on IT is doing to encourage those communities.
I am doing a distance MBA at Blekinge Tekniska Högskola (Blekinge Institute of Technology) in Sweden, which offers a free course in English. When I log on to the student portal, I receive a certificate error" from IE warning me not to continue. It says: "The security certificate presented by this website was not issued by a trusted certificate authority".Dave NullWebsite certificates came in with padlocks and SSL in the Netscape browser. However, Microsoft has toughened IE7 and Windows Vista in response to the huge number of phishing scams that are being used to defraud users. The certificate verifies that the address belongs to the company you are visiting, eg lloydstsb.com or whatever. The certifying authority, which might be VeriSign, verifies the address and certifies it.When you are directed to www7.bth.se to log in, Explorer does not like the certificate it's given, so the address bar turns red and a red certificate error button appears next to it. Click this, click View Certificate, and select the Details tab. This tells you that the site is providing a certificate from the BTH Certificate Authority. In other words, Blekinge Tekniska Högskola is certifying itself. This is frankly silly: it's like letting students issue their own degrees. The whole point of certification is to provide independent third-party verification.If you trust BTH, you can install its certificate, which should make the error message go away. Ghent University does the same thing, and provides a step-by-step guide to installing its certificate (http://helpdesk.ugent.be/email/en/certie.php). Actually, XP users just have to click Install Certificate and follow the defaults. Vista users should also seethis.Self-certification is basically worthless, but not necessarily harmful. The more worrying error message would be: "This website's security certificate has been revoked". SeeWindows Helpfor more details.You can see which certificates you have installed via the Tools menu. Select Internet Options, go to the Content tab, and click on Certificates
If you want to enlighten yourself about how the internet is revolutionising the way people and business operate, then there is a dizzying array of fascinating books to help you. From Thomas Friedman's The World is Flat through Chris Anderson's The Long Tail to the latest, and arguably most interesting, Wikinomics (by Don Tapscott and Anthony D Williams), they share a number of characteristics. They are virtually all written by North Americans who are journalists or academics, not practitioners. They are mainly reflective of what is going on, rather than prescriptive and they rarely tell you how an individual can profit from the fundamental changes that are taking place. Even when they are written by business people with a track record, they don't necessarily provide a do-it-yourself kit for aspiring entrepreneurs. See, for instance, John Reese's The Rebirth of Internet Marketing, which contains such homilies as "publishing killer content is absolutely required" or "video itself kicks the crap out of plain text or just audio". Thanks for that.The reason these books are chroniclers rather than instigators of change is that this revolution did not start at Harvard Business School. It is happening because of an unprecedented grassroots movement as individuals the world over collaborate using the web. Not even the creators of sites such as MySpace, Facebook, Wikipedia or YouTube had any idea how successful they would become when they started. Even the giant survivors of the original dotcom boom such as Google and Yahoo! have been forced to buy upstart companies like YouTube and Flickr because their own social networks couldn't compete.Most of these books are compelling reading even where they appear to be contradictory. Should we trust to our instant intuitive judgment (as Malcolm Gladwell's "blink" urges us to) or should we rely on James Surowiecki's The Wisdom of Crowds, which powerfully argues to the effect that asking the audience on Who Wants to Be a Millionaire will mostly beat the opinions of experts. We are not told, however, what a CEO should do if his or her intuitive judgment is at odds with crowd wisdom.But that presumes that people actually act out the advice of these authors rather than just use them as bedtime therapy. The World is Flat is worth reading for its wealth of examples about how the new global economy is levelling out employment and other opportunities - as long as you can stomach the endless repetition of the book's title, as if the author thinks he has discovered the equivalent of E=mc2. The Long Tail remains an essential read even though some of the statistics of the first edition have been challenged by fact-checking bloggers. It is an excellent analysis of how the new internet economy works in favour of the millions of old and minority music tracks (or books, or whatever) now available to a huge market of specialist buyers thanks to the wonders of digital storage. Recently, more in hope than expectation, I looked up an obscure Elizabethan play on the internet only to find that someone had scanned in the original text and was selling it as a paperback: the long tail in action.Wikinomics shows how enlightened corporations are opening their activities, including secret research, to anyone willing to collaborate because of the synergistic benefits it generates. The first chapter (which can be read atwikinomics.com) points out that in the arts, culture, science, education and government "billions of connected individuals can now actively participate in innovation, wealth creation, and social development in ways we once only dreamed of". Such options offer unfathomable possibilities, not least for the poorest countries if global cooperation on, say, construction of a basic dwelling could be harnessed to their advantage. But the excitement of corporate collaboration is so at odds with the get-rich-quick culture of our boardrooms that one wonders how long it will be before the penny drops.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
I like handbags as much as the next girl. I don't, however, love them enough to insist they wear a seatbelt in my car. Yet that's precisely what I find myself doing: driving the length of the M4 with my cute little turquoise tote securely strapped in next to me on the passenger seat.This is not my idea. It is my car's. My oversolicitous Toyota Prius, while excellent in many ways, has decided that my precious cargo is a passenger and should therefore be belted in, and until that's done it will beep loudly and furiously.For reasons best not elaborated upon, flinging the offending bag into the footwell is not an option - let's just say that we live at the muddy end of the M4 and have dogs. Besides, I need it within reach for essentials such as lip balm, chocolate and make-up. So, ears ringing, I cave in and fasten the belt. No one need know. Apart from the woman at the service station who studiously avoids my eye. "Nutter," she's clearly thinking.Now I shouldn't be too hard on the poor car; it's a nervous wreck. It's not just unprotected handbags that upset it. Leaving it in park mode to open the front gate gives it noisy palpitations. As do reversing, opening the door and failing to keep an up-to-date copy of the Highway Code in the glove box (OK, I made the last one up). The next model will, no doubt, beep if passengers adjust the seat without training approved by the Health and Safety Executive or recklessly play conkers without protective goggles.This is all thanks to a reassuring safety package designed to keep up with the big boys and refute any suggestion that the Prius is, as Jeremy Clarkson scathingly put it, made of papier m&acirc;ch&eacute;. An industry-wide fear of litigation has car designers falling over themselves to give cars like the Prius - and it's far from alone in this - an enormous array of safety features that would put nanny to shame.How effective they are is another matter. Take the traction control, for example: this is a sensible-sounding skid-avoidance device. Sensible-sounding, that is, until you discover that it stops the car in its tracks whenever the road is a tiny bit slippery, while 15-year-old Nissan Bluebirds sail happily past you. So it's not so safe when you're stranded in the snow in the middle of nowhere - as I was one dark morning in January.I wouldn't mind so much if it actually warned me about anything useful. If it reminded me I'd left my umbrella behind on a rainy day or, better still,  beeped when my kids had forgotten their schoolbags, I could forgive it its neurosis.But hey, at least I can be sure that on the days when the schoolbags do make it into the car, they'll be the safest passengers on the school run.
That very much depends on who you ask. NBC, the US broadcaster behind hit series such as Lost and Heroes, will tell you it should be hugely variable - perhaps starting at 99 cents (in the US) and going up to $4.99 (which Apple claimed was too much to inflict on American users of the iTunes Store).Apple will tell you it should be $1.99, though &pound;1.89 ($3.80) in the UK. On that difference, the two have fallen out like fishwives, but their row doesn't get to the heart of the problem, which is that TV episodes are widely available for free online, both legally and illicitly, and in both cases through peer-to-peer file sharing. The only difference between the latter two is how long you get to keep the product. Channel 4, the BBC and Sky (and at some time in the not-too-distant future ITV) are offering downloads fuelled by the Kontiki peer-to-peer system at no charge, providing a catchup system, ringfenced with digital rights management (DRM) software which means the programme expires after a set time. The stuff you download illicitly you can keep as long as you like.But what would be a "fair" price for a downloaded TV episode? The commentator John Gruber points out (tinyurl.com/2c34pw): "The price for a TV episode has already been established at roughly $2 a pop. It's called the DVD box set. Most network shows have 24 episodes per season. Most season-spanning box sets cost between $40-$60."Roughly the same applies - with pounds for dollars - in the UK. For example, the 23 episodes of Heroes (Season 1) will cost &pound;41.98, plus p&amp;p, at Amazon UK in December; that's &pound;1.82 each. Amazon also offers Lost Season 1 for &pound;32.97 for the 25 episodes, or &pound;1.32 each - and that doesn't account for the extras that come with the DVD.In other words, it's more expensive to buy Heroes or Lost online (though the former isn't now on sale here) - when you have to pay for the fast connection and the storage medium - than to buy it on DVD - when you get a pretty box, extras, subtitles and the storage medium thrown in.So a "fair" price for a downloaded one-hour episode of a big hit series ought to be less than the DVD per-episode price. Something like &pound;1 - why not 99p? - might look sensible. Of course, that will upset the music people, whose 99p price suddenly looks inflated. Oh no!Michael Gartenberg, an analyst with Jupiter Research, said NBC's decision "is the type of move that pushes users to look for other places to get the content (like in hi-def for free over bittorrent). Legal paid content drives consumers to do the right thing. Take it away and nature will abhor the vacuum it creates.""Sometimes," he added, "I think God put video content guys on the planet to make the music guys look progressive and visionary."
Nope - if anything, the gap in numbers sold between the two is widening. However, Sony (or some numerically challenged journalists) did manage to suggest that the release last week of figures showing that whereas in June the Wii outsold the PS3 by four to one, and in July by four to one, and in the four weeks to August 26 by three to one, meant Nintendo's lead over its rivals was "slowing" (tinyurl.com/39oje9) or "narrowing" (tinyurl.com/35any4).A moment's reflection shows that this can't be the case. If every month you keep selling more of something than your rival, your rival cannot ever reduce your lead.What the writers seem to be trying to describe is not that Nintendo's lead over its rivals (which it doesn't have vis-a-vis the Xbox 360; the Xbox has about 10.9m units sold globally, the Wii 10.6m, and the PS3 about 4.24m, according toVGChartz.com) is getting smaller, but that the growth of its sales lead is slowing. In other words, it's not accelerating away from the PS3 and overtaking the Xbox360 as fast as it was. However, a lead your opponents can't reduce will still win the race - ask Lewis Hamilton and his peers. In fact, the only time that the PS3 held a sales lead over the Wii was in November last year - the month before the Wii's launch.Meanwhile, figures released last week showed that the Wii was the UK's fastest-selling console ever, reaching 1m sold just 38 weeks after going on sale, compared to the previous record-holder, the PlayStation 2, which took 50 weeks (the Xbox 360 took 60 weeks to hit that target). Our June prediction that total Wii sales will overtake the Xbox's well before Christmas looks very safe. Meanwhile, everyone is still wondering when - if ever - the surge in PS3 sales will begin.
According to the stereotype, older people can't cope with technology. They can't hack the latest mobile phone or music player, they don't like looking at websites, they've never blogged. But in many cases the reality is that they have made the perfectly sensible decision that they don't need to. Instead, the technologies they really need to get to grips with are far more basic: such seemingly simple things as remote controls, non-mobile phones and even jam jar lids.If you've ever tried to open a jar when it hurts your hands to squeeze the sides, you know the problem that someone with arthritis has. Or how about those bottles of pills where the instructions are embossed white plastic on white plastic? Try doing that with limited vision. And, optionally, arthritis as before.With the population ageing at a dramatic rate - from 1971 to 2006, the proportion aged 65 and over increased from 13% to 16%, while those under 16 fell from 26% to 19% - the need for more consideration of technologies that will work across all age ranges, and for those which will work well with older people, is ever more important.With this in mind, the charity Help The Aged has just released a policy document on Assistive Technology - that is, products or services designed to enable disabled or older people to keep their independence.Assistive technologyThe idea is not about creating "smart homes", it emphasises. Although many designers, egged on by various technology companies, love creating showcases for shiny products that might or (probably) might not ever see the light of day, the reality of assistive technology is more prosaic. "I don't want to live in a smart home," says one of the older people consulted by Help The Aged. "I'd rather be dead."Instead, as the charity points out, simple changes in peoples' existing homes can improve their lives much more easily - and cheaply. A bath rail costs a few pounds, but can save a fall in the bathroom. When a pensioner fractures a hip, the hospital and care costs typically add up to &pound;28,000, more than four times the &pound;6,000 cost of the average housing adaptations that make a home safer. And how important are hip fractures in the elderly? Very - caring for sufferers costs roughly &pound;1bn every year, just over half of which is borne by the NHS.But even smaller items matter. For the elderly, technology in daily life centres around items like can openers, tipping hot water from a kettle into a teapot without scalding yourself, bathing and washing safely - and doing everything else as before but without accidentally harming yourself. More of us are living for longer, but the problem will be biggest for the US in 2030, when one of every five Americans will be over 65 and live on average another 15 years. But will we have the right tools then?David Sinclair, head of policy for Help the Aged, says that product designers don't talk to the people who will use their designs until it's too late. "Younger people are designing things for older people and not consulting people like us until the marketing stage," he says. "Older people don't get the input into these products."Even small points can make a difference. A small study in the US 10 years ago found that over-65s with microwaves were more likely to use them for cook food when they had rotary or slide controls rather than touch controls - apparently because the display panels were confusing, and visual acuity is the first thing to go with age.Similarly, not all assistive items are radical. But they still need the perception of a problem, and innovative technology and design to tackle it. Sinclair points to Magiplug, a bathplug that goes red when it's too hot (preventing scalding if the feet aren't sensitive enough to temperature), and has a pressure-sensitive plate that automatically lets excess water out - preventing a flood if someone absent-mindedly starts running the bath and then goes away.Rob Pinsent is head of Anchor Housing Association's Staying Put scheme, which adapts people's homes so that they can stay in them rather than move into more intensive care.Typically the work involves widening doorways and putting in lifts so people can stay in a wheelchair and move through the rest of the house."The most common adaptations after that are in the bathroom - things like a bath with a level access shower so people can just walk in, or if they need a carer then the carer can help," he says."That's the core business, but increasingly we're looking at the service side - acting as handymen and doing gardening, or simpler tasks. If someone can't fit a light bulb themselves then it's 10 minutes of a handyman's time to do it, but it makes a lot of difference to someone who can now see around their room and reduce their risk of a fall."A lot of our work is with local authorities. They might agree, as recommended by an occupational therapist, that someone needs a new bathroom put in. What they might not know is that a key part of dementia care is [the sufferer's] perception of colour - they'll find pink tiles and baths will make a huge difference to their quality of life, as compared to the white suite a council might have bought."That's another complication: a section of the population will develop Alzheimer's or some other form of dementia later in life. Again simple, cheap technologies, not robotic helpers, are the key.Smoke alarms"Someone will have changed over a time like six months and you need to be aware of this," says Clive Evers, director of knowledge for the society. "A noticeboard, putting a label on rooms so people know where they are, things like that can help a lot. Later on there are things like pressure pads that can be put under carpets to detect when a sufferer is making unusual movements."Help The Aged notes that younger people - even in their 40s and 50s - will shun products they think are aimed at the elderly. Yet smoke alarms and reading glasses were once thought of as solely for the doddery. Society tends to absorb useful technologies in time. But will we build enough of them soon enough by the time we are old?
Steve Jobs's email inbox must have been red-hot. And he must read very fast. And having seen how narked early iPhone buyers are about seeing their $599 purchase cut in price by $200, he's acted quickly to try to calm them. But, you know, in life stuff happens. Here's thetext of the letterposted on his site and sent to all registered users:To all iPhone customers:I have received hundreds of emails from iPhone customers who are upset about Apple dropping the price of iPhone by $200 two months after it went on sale. After reading every one of these emails, I have some observations and conclusions.First, I am sure that we are making the correct decision to lower the price of the 8GB iPhone from $599 to $399, and that now is the right time to do it. iPhone is a breakthrough product, and we have the chance to 'go for it' this holiday season. iPhone is so far ahead of the competition, and now it will be affordable by even more customers. It benefits both Apple and every iPhone user to get as many new customers as possible in the iPhone 'tent'. We strongly believe the $399 price will help us do just that this holiday season.Second, being in technology for 30+ years I can attest to the fact that the technology road is bumpy. There is always change and improvement, and there is always someone who bought a product before a particular cutoff date and misses the new price or the new operating system or the new whatever. This is life in the technology lane. If you always wait for the next price cut or to buy the new improved model, you'll never buy any technology product because there is always something better and less expensive on the horizon. The good news is that if you buy products from companies that support them well, like Apple tries to do, you will receive years of useful and satisfying service from them even as newer models are introduced.Third, even though we are making the right decision to lower the price of iPhone, and even though the technology road is bumpy, we need to do a better job taking care of our early iPhone customers as we aggressively go after new ones with a lower price. Our early customers trusted us, and we must live up to that trust with our actions in moments like these.Therefore, we have decided to offer every iPhone customer who purchased an iPhone from either Apple or AT&amp;T, and who is not receiving a rebate or any other consideration, a $100 store credit towards the purchase of any product at an Apple Retail Store or the Apple Online Store. Details are still being worked out and will be posted on Apple's website next week. Stay tuned.We want to do the right thing for our valued iPhone customers. We apologize for disappointing some of you, and we are doing our best to live up to your high expectations of Apple.Steve Jobs, Apple CEOIs it just me, or is it kinda spooky how he calls it "iPhone", not "theiPhone". Maybe to the people in Apple the product names are a generic noun, like "clothing"? "Clothing is a breakthrough product.. we are making the right decision to lower the price of clothing..." Yup, that must be the mindset.
As part of this year's Edinburgh Interactive Festival, Screening Director Brian Baglow was asked to organise some sort of event to celebrate Scottish development. The predictable option would have been some sort of networking evening, but instead he commissioned the chaps behind online videogame TV show,Consolevania, also based in Scotland, to make a film exploring the wealth of development talent north of the border."The whole thing was shot in three days, one each in Dundee, Glasgow and Edinburgh the week before the festival," explains Baglow. "Then the guys had only four or five days to edit and master it (or whatever you call those bits) and stick in all the music and credits."The resulting 'jockumentary' (Brian told me to write that) can be viewedhereor downloaded fromhereand it's an enjoyably ramshackle 50 minutes of developer interviews and swearing, covering everything from smaller mobile game studios like Dynamo toCrackdowncreator, Real-Time Worlds.Push aside whatever you had scheduled for this evening and check it out. It's worth it for the failed Cohort interview alone.
Pretend it's Friday afternoon and you want to be mildly amused for 59 seconds or less... Last year's Zune Monster animation to Lily Allen's Smile has been included in theAICP Show, along with Coca Cola's Happiness Factory, Levi's 501 News Story, HP's Hands, and the truly amazing Hip-Hop Spock plus DJ Scotty. (I plugged the Whopperettes in Burger King's More Mayoages ago, but that's there, too.)All the Zune productions are athttps://www.zune-arts.net/but you have to scroll left (or right) to find the Monsters. Alternatively it's at Microsoft'sSoapboxvideo sharing site, but as usual I've posted it fromYouTube.
With its eye-catching white plastic design, the iPod has become a landmark of 21st century living in just a few years. But the music player marked the end of an era yesterday, as Apple's chief executive, Steve Jobs, finally ditched its emblematic look.Launching a new range of iPods, Mr Jobs announced the arrival of the new touch-sensitive, wireless-enabled "iPod touch" and binned the polished white design that has helped it become one of the most influential brands in the world.The new widescreen iPod touch, which costs &pound;199 or &pound;269, has room for up to 4,000 songs and can show films and TV programmes as well as play music. It is based on the company's iPhone, which went on sale this summer in the US. As well as the touch-sensitive display, the new model comes with wireless internet capability which will allow owners to surf the web through their iPod. Users will also be able to buy tracks from the iTunes store without having to synchronise their gadgets to a computer."Other people have tried wireless and it's failed, but we think we know what it takes to make it successful," said Mr Jobs, speaking to a crowd in San Francisco. "We're very excited about this ... we think it's one of the seven wonders of the world."The iPod touch gives equal prominence to watching videos as to listening to music, and takes many cues from the iPhone, swapping the clean, white style for a mixture of aluminium and black, and replacing the pioneering scroll wheel with a touch-sensitive screen.Starbucks link-upIn a curious marketing twist, Apple will take advantage of the machine's wireless capability by linking up with the Starbucks coffee chain. Customers who hear a song they like playing in the cafe will be able to download it immediately at the touch of a button.The new-look machine - on sale in the UK later this month - is the work of Apple's lead designer, award-winning Briton Jonathan Ive. Mr Ive, a former industrial design student from Newcastle, joined Apple in 1992 and rose to prominence with his first major success, the colourful all-in-one iMac computer. He took on legendary status with his sleek design for the iPod.Gadget fans will shed a tear as yesterday's launch marked the end of the iPod's classic white design, the landmark style that became almost impossible to miss on the streets as it became more successful. As well as the iPod touch, the traditional white iPod has been replaced by the "classic" model, which comes in silver or black and has doubled in capacity to hold as many as 40,000 songs. The company also announced a new version of the iPod nano. It now comes with a larger screen which is able to play video.None of the developments are a radical departure from the company's recent plans. Apple has already trialled the features of the new iPods with the iPhone. The old iPod, meanwhile, has been able to play video since 2005. The carefully orchestrated launch, which involved a live satellite link between California and BBC Television Centre in London, followed weeks of intense speculation over the fate of the iPod.Reports yesterday suggested the possibility of a built-in digital radio, a tie-in with the BBC, or the announcement of a European launch date for the iPhone.The launches come as the company prepares for what it hopes will be its biggest year ever. Sales of the iPod have already exceeded 110m since it launched in 2001, and the months leading up to Christmas have traditionally provided Apple's busiest period - more than 21m  were sold at the end of 2006 alone.Online TV showsIt remains unclear whether the public shares Apple's appetite for even larger video-playing devices. Sales of TV shows online remain modest, dwarfed by the popularity of downloadable music, and mobile television has proved unpopular with many viewers.But Apple is hoping that it can convince people to pay to watch TV on their iPods. Last week the company announced that it was going to let UK users of the iTunes Store download TV shows for the first time. The initial lineup included a small number of US programmes including Ugly Betty and Desperate Housewives, all priced at &pound;1.89 an episode. News of that announcement was quickly dampened, however, after NBC - the American television network which produces hit shows including Heroes and Scrubs - announced that it was not going to renew its contract to sell programmes through iTunes.Last night, Apple's share price in the US dropped by 2% to trade at $141.26, although it had shot up by more than 4% the day before in anticipation of the event and on reports about favourable iPod sales.RivalsThe iPod is by far the most popular digital player in the market, but other manufacturers are cashing inNokiaPrice: Likely to be free with contractMany experts see Nokia as Apple's major rival, and last week the world's biggest phone manufacturer announced its new N81 music-playing phone. The N81 can hold up to 2,000 songs and sports an iPod-like wheel, FM radio and a 2.8-inch screen.SonyPrice: UnannouncedSony's latest attempt is the button-free "Rolly", which will be in shops later this year. But the Japanese giant has so far failed to revive the successful Walkman brand, and last week announced that it was closing its online music store, Connect.CreativePrice: &pound;280Heavy-duty player pitched at those thinking of switching from the iPod. It has a 4.3-inch screen and can hold 7,500 songs or 40 hours of video.iRiverPrice: &pound;179A brand popular among the technologically savvy, iRiver's flagship product is the Clix. It is not the cheapest option, but has plenty of fans.LGPrice: &pound;139T54 hopes to cash in on the popularity of LG's mobile phones. Has a touch-screen display and video capability, with room for up to 2,000 music tracks or 11 hours of video. Expected to arrive later this year.
Simply too good to miss: this marvellous video suggests what it would be like If Second Life Were Real. (Or maybe if real life were Second Life.)Orhere's the link.We'll admit to having shamelessly nicked this from theNew Scientist technology blog. Thanks, people!
Vudu, from Santa Clara, California, has finally launched its digital home movie delivery system. For $399, you get a small 250GB set-top box that plugs into a high-speed Internet connection, downloads movies and shows them on a TV set without you having to use a PC. After that, you pay per movie.The New York Times's David Pogue has had a look.He says:How can one hard drive hold 5,000 movies? This is the best part: it doesn't. It actually holds only the first 30 seconds of each movie -- typically the movie studio logos. While you watch that, the rest of the movie quietly begins to download; the handoff from the starter stub to the downloaded portion is undetectable.This impressive engineering feat also explains two other quirks of the Vudu box. First, you cannot fast-forward into a movie that just started. Second, you cannot use the Vudu box without a fast Internet connection -- preferably a wired one. Cable modems are great, but basic D.S.L. and dial-up connections are not fast enough. Higher-tier D.S.L. plans might have the required speed; a speed-testing button appears at Vudu.com.The movies are downloaded using peer-to-peer file-sharing. I'm amazed if this is fast enough to allow US users to watch a movie while it's downloading.Pogue does point out that Vudu is much like the oldMovieBeamvideo-on-demand system, which was started by Disney then spun off in early 2006. There's alsoAkimbo.At PaidContent.org, Rafat Ali rubbished the story back in April, inVudu Casts a Spell on NYT, and returns withIdiots In The Box, Part Deux.The Vudu launch has also been covered byReuters,LA Times,USA Todayand many more.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
What does the King James Bible have in common with an Ordnance Survey map? Both are subject to crown copyright, an ancient institution whose function is increasingly open to question. Ownership of almost all information produced at taxpayers' expense is one of the main legal weapons government has to control - or block - the re-use of public sector information in the knowledge economy.Knowledge economyBy contrast, the US government does not claim copyright in its works. We argue that the UK government should follow the US in making all raw taxpayer-funded data available to the knowledge economy - except where that data compromises personal privacy or national security.Some of our supporters say that a short cut to this state of affairs would be to abolish crown copyright itself. The idea is worth examining. Abolition was last floated in 1998, as part of a series of examinations in to what the government should do with its publishing arm, Her Majesty's Stationery Office. A green paper, Crown Copyright in the Information Age (tinyurl.com/2a8ea2), proposed abolition as one of seven options for crown copyright.In the public consultation that followed, abolition emerged as the most popular. From 70 responses received, abolition received 12 votes as preferred choice. The runner-up (retaining copyright but in a simpler form) received eight votes. The snag was that although abolition was the most popular response, it was also the least popular, receiving the largest number of "unacceptable" votes.Faced with this polarised response, the government chose compromise. In 1999, the Cabinet Office found a "general consensus" in favour of retaining copyright, with simplified procedures for re-use. This is broadly the strategy of the body responsible for controlling copyright, the Office of Public Sector Information (part of the National Archives), whose head, Carol Tullo, also enjoys the title the Queen's Printer. Today, the office runs a "click-use" licensing scheme for crown copyright and other government material. This is a Whitehall version of "creative commons", allowing the free reproduction of material provided the source is acknowledged.Officials at the office say that, far from stifling the re-use of public information, crown copyright can help it happen. "Copyright helps ensure greater consistency in our licensing approach," says Jim Wretham, head of information policy. "It also protects the overall integrity of information, its badge of authenticity."Judging by recent investigations on the re-use of public-sector information carried out by the Office of Fair Trading and the Cabinet Office, a debate about the abolition of crown copyright would be as polarised today as it was in 1998.Even if a consensus could be built, abolition would not by itself open access to much information. While the list of crown bodies runs to several hundred organisations, from the Prime Minister's Office to HM Prison Service, swathes of data are owned by non-crown bodies. Top of the list come local authorities, who own the rights to data created at public expense.Subtleties of constitutionOther exceptions are non-departmental public bodies such as the Environment Agency, which earlier this year was at the centre of a row about how it charges for data on the location of water sources. The reason lies with the subtleties of the British constitution: the Environment Agency is not a crown body, because its watchdog functions require it to take legal action against crown bodies, and the Queen cannot sue herself. The Financial Services Authority and the British Standards Institute are likewise non-crown bodies.And ancient constitutional oddities abound. One such is the Authorised (King James) Version of the Bible. In the 17th century, the English-language Bible was a weapon of war, and rights are "vested in the crown" in perpetuity.The simplest way to abolish crown copyright might be to abolish the crown itself. That, however, would take our campaign into much trickier waters.A history of rightsFrom the Domesday book on, British governments have recognised the power of asserting ownership of information. In 1604, King James 1 authorised a new standard English translation of the Bible; because of its historical value in promulgating Protestantism, rights remain owned by the Crown. In 1990, the House of Lords ruled that the government could assert Crown copyright to prevent publication of the MI5 memoir, Spycatcher. Today, Crown copyright lasts for 125 years, or 50 years from commercial publication.The modern bureaucracy of Crown copyright dates from 1786, with the formation of a new Treasury department, His Majesty's Stationery Office (HMSO). In 1882, HMSO was made the official publisher to both Houses of Parliament, which still retain copyright on official proceedings. In 1889, Queen Victoria granted the controller of HMSO Royal Letters Patent as "printer to Her Majesty of all Acts of Parliament". The Letters Patent appointed the controller to hold Crown copyright. This grant and the office of the Queen's Printer continues today. In 1980, HMSO became a trading fund. In 2000, the government repositioned HMSO to regulate Crown copyright licensing. This role was taken on by the Office of Public Sector Information, now part of the National Archives.&#183; Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog
iPhone Atlas has arun-downof the main differences between the iPhone and iPod Touch. The main ones are that the iPod Touch has no built-in camera, microphone, loudspeaker, mail application or Google Maps, so it isn't quite the PDA it could have been. The lack of a mic means that, unlike many cheaper rival MP3 players, you can't use it as a voice recorder.Lacking the phone software, the iPod Touch has separate application for handling contacts.
Following on fromyesterday's blogabout game audio comes news of the first evervideo games livealbum. Performed by the Slovak National Orchestra the cheesily titled Video Games Live: Greatest Hits - Volume One will include "medleys" from Zelda, Mario, Final Fantasy and the rest. Sadly noSanxionthough. The album is out on the 15th October to coincide with a live performance at the Royal Festival Hall - as part of London Games Festival - on the 22nd.You can quibble with the list - Sonic? Tron?? - but the likes of the Halo and Warcraft soundtracks are certainly deserving of a wider audience. Quite how many non-gamers will buy the CD or attend the performance remains to be seen though. Without the in-game memories or shared nostalgia the music will stand or fall on its quality alone and that may not be enough. Gaming trying to hard to gain cultural significance then? Or is this a belated - and welcome - recognition of game music?
