If you're lucky enough not to have wasted 90 minutes (or more) of your life on Steve Jobs's mostly-tedious Apple sales spiel yesterday, you can get the gist of it in 60 seconds, thanks toMahalo's Veronica Belmont.If you want the whole thing,Crunchgearhas it, but it's QuickTime.
Once in a while,ELSPAsends out press releases detailing its efforts to combat software piracy. They're usually quite dull - but not today. How's this for an opening paragraph:A man who sold copied games, films and music to trawlermen returning to Troon Harbour, South Ayrshire after an extended fishing trip in exchange for a box of crabs has been fined £3,000.Apparently, the culprit, 61 year-old George Clarke, planned to sell the counterfeit discs for cash, but it soon transpired that fishing crews do not take their wallets out on the ocean wave. He settled instead for a selection of fresh crabs. His premises were later searched by officers of Strathclyde Police and investigators from North Ayrshire Trading Standards who found three computers and over 200 discs containing illegally copied games for PC, PlayStation2, PSP and Xbox.But what of the fishermen who were tempted by Clarke's illegal wares? Will they face a disciplinary herring?Yes, I think that is the sound of me being sacked by the Guardian.UpdateNo wait, I'm not finished yet! In true tabloid style, can readers suggest the sorts of games that might get swapped for a fresh catch of the day? Cod of War? Troutrun?
Social networking site Bebo is to shock fans of hit online drama Kate Modern by killing off its eponymous star in the first episode of its new series.Today's new episode of the soap starts with the revelation that Kate has been "brutally murdered" following her kidnap at the end of the first series.The second series will develop into a whodunnit in which the characters, and the online audience, attempt to solve the mystery of who killed Kate.Kate Modern, which stars former Royle Family actor Ralf Little, has been a huge hit for Bebo, the second largest social networking site in the UK.The first series, which was made up of 155 episodes, lasting between one and four minutes each, that ran from July 16 until January 1, drew a total audience of more than 35m videos viewed - an average of 1.5m per week.Bebo is hoping the explosive start to the new series of Kate Modern will continue to hold the attention of the show's massive fan base.The second series will run for 24 weeks. About 120 episodes will be made and uploaded at an average of five per week.The series' first sponsors - which get to see their products placed within the video - will be Cadbury's Creme Egg and Toyota's youth-targeted car Aygo.Sponsors of the first series included Microsoft, Procter &amp; Gamble, Warner Music, Paramount and Orange, which each paid up to £250,000 to appear within the show.No figures have been revealed about what each company might pay to be involved with the second series.However, each company stumps up cash based on the amount its brand is integrated into the storyline, which includes monitoring the number of times it appears in the video and is mentioned in the script.Warner Music, for example, used its sponsorship to put its act The Days into the show, while Paramount used the series to promote movie Hallam Foe by featuring actor Jamie Bell.The popularity of the first series of Kate Modern, produced by LG15, the company behind the internet TV hit LonelyGirl15, has led to the development of other programmes for social networking sites.Bebo has since commissioned two more series, the Sony-made Sofia's Diary, and "interactive online reality drama" The Gap Year, produced by Big Brother maker Endemol.Rival site MySpace got on board last month when it secured a deal to show the first production from the recently revived Hammer Films, Beyond the Rave, in a series of 20 four-minute "webisodes" onMySpaceTV.In November, broadcasters including BBC, Channel 4, Sky, ITN and CBS partnered Bebo to show clips and programmes in a bid to tap into the increasingly hard to reach youth demographic that Bebo attracts.Bebo attracted 11.3m unique users in November according to online measurement firm comScore.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
So Apple is now offering a 64GB Flash-based drive (aka SSD, or solid state drive) as an option on the MacBook Air.But here's the thing: it's known (because people murmur it) that Flash has a limited life, because the number of times you can write to a block of storage is limited. At some point, the capacitance breaks down and it won't hold the charge any more. Bzzt, that bit of memory is gone.But how long would that be? A long (and recast) analysis by Starage-search.com looks atSSD Myths and Legends, and notes thatIn the early days of flash SSDs managing this was a real headache for oems and users. The maximum number of write cycles to an address block - the endurance - was initially small (about10,000010,000 [corrected - CA] write cycles in 1994, rising to 100,000 in 1997). And the capacity of flash storage was small too. So the write endurance limit was more than just a theoretical consideration. In the worst case - you could destroy a flash SSD in less than a week!Don't worry, though, things have moved on. Apart from anything, there's much more storage now, so any given block is less likely to reach its maximum read/write capacity.So in May 2006 he looked at what would happen with an SSD used by a bonkers data recorder that kept on overwriting and rewriting and erasing data on the drive. Fortuitously for us, he chose a 64GB drive.We assume perfect wear levelling which means we need to fill the disk 2 million times to get to the write endurance limit.2 million (write endurance) x 64G (capacity) divided by 80M bytes / sec gives the endurance limited life in seconds.That's a meaningless number - which needs to be divided by seconds in an hour, hours in a day etc etc to give...Can you see how big it is yet? Let's divert for a moment to an article written in 2007,Debunking Misconceptions in SSD Longevitywhich also drew on that analysis:Assuming a much smaller endurance rating of 100,000 cycles (typical rating quoted by NAND flash vendors), a bigger volume of writes per day at 3.4TB and no caching nor wear leveling implementations, a 160GB solid state drive is projected to last up to 12.9 years, which is definitely longer than the average replacement cycle of most IT storage devices and equipment.And since you were wondering, the time before your 64GB SSD is hosed in the above implementation is 51 years.If your SSD-equipped MacBook Air is still in use 12 or especially 51 years from now, then you might need to be able to replace the drive. But by then it'll probably be wired into our brains...
This year's Computer Electronics Show may not have brought much to the gaming headlines (they'll be waiting for theGame Developers Conferencein March or the recently-re-launchedElectronics Entertainment Expoin July), but more than ever, the technology that was on show in Las Vegas last week had everything to do with games (check out Bobbie JOhnson's report about games at CEShere).While there wasn't much to show in terms of big names, innovation was high, and most of it had to do with innovative interactivity. User-interfaces ruled, from the Minority Report-style, touch-sensitive Microsoft Surface to theTN Games' 3rd Space gamer vestthat rumbles when a player is pummeled by virtual bullets. This is the year that the gimmicks took over, often inspired by the interaction of theSony EyeToy or the Nintendo Wii. Who really needs anair guitar gizmo, regardless of awesome it is?The gaming industry often tries to draw parallels with the film industry, arguing that games are somehow superior because they've have come so far in less time than it took movies to fall into their stride. But this influx of gimmicky interfaces all aimed at increasing immersion remind me of the early days of cinema, when schlock kingWilliam Castletried to scare cinema-goers with his own ridiculous immersion tactics. Are we witnessing theCastle-ification of games?Out of those glorious fifties, we saw life insurance gimmicks, seats wired up with low voltages, the fabulous smell-o-vision, even the rise of 3D. How different are these new interface devices? These shrapnel-wired military jackets, or Alienware gigantic curved screens from Castle's shock-enhanced seats for The Tingler or movies shown in IMAX?Now don't get me wrong; I often love these gimmicks more than the entertainment they accompany. Smell-o-vision in the adventure gameLeather Godesses of Phobosreally made it for me. The mic in Seaman was the only saving grace of that game. The "passive" in Passively Multiplayer Online Game is truly hilarious. Would anyone play EyeToy Play if it you could play the minigames without the eponymous EyeToy attached to it?What particularly interests me, is that the new breed of interactive gimmicks are potentially further-reaching than any dubious "life insurance" policy Castle could have dreamed up. These products can be adapted beyond the single entertainment experience into a whole new way of playing. Look at the Wiimote, for example. What a gimmick! And look how many people have bought into it.So if this is the schlock era of videogaming, what other ridiculous could be incorporated into our consoles? Quick - get in before the sublime dies out in favor of the high brow. You could make a few bob before the trend dies a death, or at least make your name as the schlock king (or queen) of gaming.
Tomorrow evening I'll be interviewing Mark Rein, the outspoken vice president of Epic Games. High on the agenda - the PS3 iteration of Unreal Tournament 3 and the future of Unreal Engine 3. But what would YOU like to ask him? Add your question as a comment and I'll put it to him.
I've been on the road for the past week or so, making sure that the latest episode of Tech Weekly (here's the MP3) brings you the coolest news from the sequence of technology shows that dominate the west Coast of the US - and the industry - at this time of year.Hot off the press is the latest from Macworld - including first reactions to thenew MacBook Air. We discuss the developments on show at last week'sCES(and ask who's going to take on Bill Gates's keynote next year). Plus, we've got an interview with Nicholas Negroponte, founder ofOne Laptop Per Child, who explains why he thinks the project doesn't deserve the stick it has been getting in the past few months.In the news there'siTunes harmonisation; a traffic boom for online video sites; the retirement ofJeff Raikes; and Andy Grove'sfunding of research into Parkinson's.The studio is graced with the presence of hostAleks Krotoski, who is joined by the twin talents ofCharles ArthurandJemima Kiss. I'm phoning in from the road - with varying degrees of a terrible cold!And while you're here: we might be doingwell in the iTunes chart, but it's still early days - this is only our fourth show! Tell us what you'd like to hear, or subjects you'd like us to cover.·Subscribe free to Tech Weekly via iTunes·or download this to your computer·The podcast feed URL·Visit our Facebook group
Any company which grows as fast as Facebook is bound to attract interest from venture capitalists, and these people tend to be neoconservatives by definition - so what's new (With friends like these..., G2, January 14)? The reality is nobody on Facebook really pays much attention to the advertising around the edges of the page: their eyes focus elsewhere. We will eventually all get bored of logging on as Facebook pales into yesterday's fad.The real suckers may turn out to be the venture capitalists who have paid over the odds for shares in Facebook and the multinational companies which pay millions of dollars to advertise on its pages. Here's hoping. Anyway, the article inspired me to create a new group on Facebook: "Companies which advertise on Facebook are wasting their money!" Let's see if Facebook has the courage not to censor it.Thomas QuintonLondonTom Hodgkinson is correct in suggesting that if friends are geographically close then meeting face to face is the way to do it. But the benefit of Facebook is the discovery of people with similar views and interests around the world. It also provides another platform to communicate with distant family and friends.As for advertising, I would highly recommend the AdBlock plug-in for Firefox. When I use Facebook I see very few adverts. Two other aspects work against advertisers. First, many people sign up to Facebook and never or rarely use it. Second, people add accounts for their pets and other fake accounts. I'm fairly sure the guinea pigs owned by my Battleship friend 200 miles away don't drink Coca-Cola, but I'll be sure to ask her.Steven LilleyHalifax, West YorkshireSurely the best thing to do if you don't want to be bombarded with adverts is pretend to be 95? I bet those youth-seeking advertisers will leave you well alone then. Facebook is very easy to subvert; in fact, it's rather touchingly naive that founders of this truly evil empire assume we all tell them the truth. I don't. Do you?Laura MarcusLeek, StaffordshireI'm thrilled that the first thing my husband did after reading the article was to close his Facebook account. Hurrah.Amanda BanhamSaffron Walden, EssexYour front-page headline says "FBI wants instant access to British identity data" (Janurary 15). Surely a waste of time and money given the CIA can poke anyone on the Facebook site they bankroll to the tune of $12.5m?Russell CavanaghSheffield
There's aninteresting articleon the New York Times website, looking into the US videogame industry's plans to establish a political action committee and to donate money to game-friendly politicians and candidates. Michael D. Gallagher, chief executive of the Entertainment Software Association, comments:"We will be writing checks to campaigns by the end of this quarter. This is an important step in the political maturation process of the industry that we are ready to take now. This is about identifying and supporting champions for the game industry on Capitol Hill so that they support us."It's interesting that Gallagher seamlessly equates political maturation with the donation of cold hard cash - is this literally what it costs for the industry to gain respectability and support in the political community? It's all so brazen, and apparently perfectly normal - it is how the music and movie industries have operated for years.The writer makes a vital point, though. He asserts that Wii, the casual games phenomenon and music titles like Guitar Hero have legitimised the videogame industry, preparing the way for the courtship of politicians. It was only two years ago that Hilary Clinton was demanding tougher legislation in the wake of the Hot Coffee scandal - industry donations would have been dirty money back then. But now that middle-aged women and pensioners are enjoying the likes of Bookworm Adventures and Brain Training, cash-strapped politicos are happy to take games industry moolah.This section is also intriguing:Mr. Gallagher did say that in this election year his association would mobilize the more than 100,000 gamers who have joined the association's Video Game Voters Network. Like the association and its nascent PAC (political action committee), the voters group opposes efforts to regulate games more strictly than books, movies and other media.Hand a politician some cash and hemightbe sympathetic to the industry - line-up 20,000 passionate gamers in his State who are ready to campaign against stricter legislation and suddenly you've got his full attention...
As Charles has pointed out, Apple hasreleased the Air, which the Macrumour mill got spot on. In some ways, Steve Jobs delivered. But is it what the Mac faithful wanted, or do they feel let down? No better place to gauge post MacWorld reaction than the blogosphere.William D. Walsh cries out in desperation, "apple stop making new stuff so quickly!" But despite the obvious technolust, he calls into question Apple's claim to having released the thinnest notebook. He says that crown belongs toSony's X505, measuring a svelte .75 inches and released in back in 2003. Well, if you don't like the Air's $1799 price, the X505 set you back $2999 in 2003.And the X505 received similar reviews to whatsome have given the Air:As a result of its sheer smallness, the VAIO X505 skimps on features; in fact, it barely has the essentials. The system offers two USB 2.0 ports, a four-pin FireWire port, and a PC Card slot for the 802.11a/b/g Wi-Fi card that Sony includes with the system.Blogger Bernard Leongcan't see himself buying an Airand says, "It's too expensive for a 1.6 GHz processor computer." And he adds:More features to my preference. I still like to have a few USB ports, ethernet and firewire port on my laptop, not to mention that optical drive I want to have. In order to make it so thin, they have sacrificed a lot of peripherals in the process.Rick McCharles is nonplussed with the quoted 5-hours of battery life, the lack of of a DVD/CD and the price. He's holding out for advanced technology that will increasebattery life to days, not just hours.I want a MacBook Air sold state hard drive with 40hrs+ battery life RIGHT NOW.Jenn S. in Minnesota in the US overcame her initial desire and balks at the lack of an optical drive and the price. Follow the arc of technolust:First thought: Oooooh that's hot. WANT WANT WANT WANT WANTSecond thought, as gear lust dies down: Um. But what if I want to burn a CD?Third thought: $1800-$3100?? Does Cupertino realize that people (i.e., me) will not favorably compare their product with real air, which is free?Final thought: I am quite happy with my current Macbook, thank you very much.People have paid a premium for these supermodel laptops. You can't compare it even with Apple's Lamborghini line-up. You have to compare like to like for price, performance and, yes, compromises to see whether the Air is heat on the competition or just hot air. Look at Lenovo'sThinkPad X-Series. A similarly specced X61s with a 1.6Ghz low-power Core 2 Duo with an 80GB hard-drive, 802.11n and Bluetooth is $1349 on sale right now. Usually, it's $1729. The X6 Ultrabase which adds a host of capabilities will set you back an extra $199. The 8-cell battery will get you 12.5 hours of run-time.TheVaio SZ, which is close to the Air with a 13.3 inch screen and similar features to the Air, will set you back $1399. (I'm keeping everything in dollars just to compare like-to-like and not include the UK technology tax.) But that includes an optical drive, a DVD-burner in fact.But this isn't about price, features, gigabytes, ports or benchmarks. Appleistechnolust. It's about design, attention to detail and one of the seven deadly sins, envy.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:MacBook Air,MacWorldtechnorati tags end
Bobbie may well leap in here later, but the Stevenote is over and Apple has indeed unveiled theMacBook Air(6080GB spinning hard drive or 64GB Flash drive, 1.6GHz or 1.8GHz 45nm Core Duo, 13-inch screen, 3lbs; slogan: "Thinnovation") andTime Capsule(wireless-enabled network drive, can be used as a wireless backup in OS X Leopard's Time Machine; slogan, "A leap forward for backup"), and though he announced film rentals via an updated Apple TV in the US, the press releases we've seen don't seem to suggest that we'll get those in the UK.So if memory serves this suggests to me that Chuq von Rospach was pretty much on the money with his predictions for what was coming up inlast week's article. And how did you all do?And, more or less importantly, will you stump up £1,200 or, e-yow, £2,030 for a MacBook Air (the latter price being the Flash drive version)?As far as rentals etc goes, all we get in the UK is something called "iTunes Digital Edition", where if you buy a 20th Century Fox DVD then you can get a free version of the same thing, digitally, on iTunes.The interesting thing is that what Apple's clearly doing in the US (which is half its market) is trying to get underneath the TV. If iPod sales growth begins to slow - even while the iTunes Store has passed 4 billion songs - then it needs to be doing other things that are in the face of consumers. Netflix and Amazon Unbox already do movie rentals in the US (Netflix having 7m subscribers) and Apple badly needs to get some of that action. The advantage it does have is that it can sell the "whole widget" - particularly Apple TV, which disappointed in its first incarnation because it needed a separate computer. No longer.Michael Gartenberg's of Jupiter Researchoffers his take on rentals, saying it's going to change things; his colleague David Carddisagrees; and a third Jupiterite, Mark Mulligan, offers "what Apple should announce":it is time for Apple to innovate in the face of intensifying competition from Amazon, Nokia, imeem etc etc. iTunes Music Store is not about to be knocked of its throne, but Apple has stayed on top of the portable media player space by creating the iPod killer before the competition does. Now it needs to apply the same thinking to its music store so that it can reclaim its throne as leading market innovator and put in preemptive strikes to any would-be-usurpers to its position as market leading digital music offering.
A mostly-boring keynote from Steve Jobs got a late lift when he unveiled the ultra-thin and great-looking MacBook Air. This is tapered like the old Sony Vaio X505 but ends up being even thinner. It's also faster and much heavier, but has a bigger screen and a much better price. The question is, didWiredtake the edge off the surprise value?Otherwise it was mostly me-too stuff, like wireless backup, and movie rentals via a price-cut Apple TV.As usual, Ryan Bock blogged it live atEngadget, but making the terrible mistake of changing to reverse order. This makes it much harder to read. Jemima Kiss also blogged it from the UK on the Guardian'sPDA blog, but without the pictures.
The FWA(Favourite Websites Awards)Site Of The Year 2007has been won byGet the Glass, a milk marketing site developed by Sweden'sNorth KingdomforGoodby, Silverstein &amp; Partners, USA.Get the Glass was the overwhelming winner, and it is beautifully done. However, as one of the 115 judges, I voted for HBO's voyeuristicVoyeur, because I thought it was much more interesting and more progressive, and The FWA specialises in progressive, cutting-edge stuff.In my view, Get the Glass isn't so much a website as a downloadable Flash game. It's superficial compared to Voyeur, which is slow but edgy.If you have a really fast Internet connection -- 20Mbps might be enough -- have a look at a Japanese effort,I'm A Cyborg, but that's OK. It's basically dumb, but the unfolding paper graphics are wonderful.Some other sites in the competition were relatively poor, in my view.Michelin - A Better Way Forwardwas memorably awful, though I'm doing my best to forget it.Hungry SuitcaseandAir Jordan XX2both managed to reach a high level of naffness.However, of all the sites we looked at, there was only one I might go back to:Picnik. It's an online picture editing site that has some practical value, and a readily comprehensible user interface. In context, I guess both of those are unforgivable. No wonder it didn't win ;-)Update: Picnik came third, which isn't a bad result.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
When HM Revenue &amp; Customs haemorrhaged the personal and financial information of 25 million British families in November, wags dubbed it the "Privacy Chernobyl", a meltdown of global, epic proportions.The metaphor is apt: the data collected by corporations and governmental agencies is positively radioactive in its tenacity and longevity. Nuclear accidents leave us wondering just how we're going to warn our descendants away from the resulting wasteland for the next 750,000 years while the radioisotopes decay away. Privacy meltdowns raise a similarly long-lived spectre: will the leaked HMRC data ever actually vanish?The financial data in question came on two CDs. If you're into downloading movies, this is about the same size as the last couple of Bond movies. That's an incredibly small amount of data - my new phone holds 10 times as much. My camera (six months older than the phone) can only fit four copies of the nation's financial data.Our capacity to store, copy and distribute information is ascending a curve that is screaming skyward, headed straight into infinity. This fact has not escaped the notice of the entertainment industry, where it has been greeted with savage apoplexy.Wet KleenexBut it seems to have entirely escaped the attention of those who regulate the gathering of personal information. The world's toughest privacy measures are as a wet Kleenex against the merciless onslaught of data acquisition. Data is acquired at all times, everywhere.For example, you nowmustbuy an Oyster Card if you wish to buy a monthly travelcard for London Underground, and you arerequiredto complete a form giving your name, home address, phone number, email and so on in order to do so. This means that Transport for London is amassing a radioactive mountain of data plutonium, personal information whose limited value is far outstripped by the potential risks from retaining it.Hidden in that toxic pile are a million seams waiting to burst: a woman secretly visits a fertility clinic, a man secretly visits an HIV support group, a boy passes through the turnstiles every day at the same time as a girl whom his parents have forbidden him to see; all that and more.All these people could potentially be identified, located and contacted through the LU data. We may say we've nothing to hide, but all of us have private details we'd prefer not to see on the cover of tomorrow's paper.How long does this information need to be kept private? A century is probably a good start, though if it's the kind of information that our immediate descendants would prefer to be kept secret, 150 years is more like it. Call it two centuries, just to be on the safe side.Photo: GettyWeapons-grade dataIf we are going to contain every heap of data plutonium for 200 years, that means that every single person who will ever be in a position to see, copy, handle, store, or manipulate that data will have to be vetted and trained every bit as carefully as the folks in the rubber suits down at the local fast-breeder reactor.Every gram - sorry, byte - of personal information these feckless data-packrats collect on us should be as carefully accounted for as our weapons-grade radioisotopes, because once the seals have cracked, there is no going back. Once the local sandwich shop's CCTV has been violated, once the HMRC has dumped another 25 million records, once London Underground has hiccoughup up a month's worth of travelcard data, there will be no containing it.And what's worse is that we, as a society, are asked to shoulder the cost of the long-term care of business and government's personal data stockpiles. When a database melts down, we absorb the crime, the personal misery, the chaos and terror.The best answer is to make businesses and governments responsible for the total cost of their data collection. Today, the PC you buy comes with a surcharge meant to cover the disposal of the e-waste it will become. Tomorrow, perhaps the &pound;200 CCTV you buy will have an added &pound;75 surcharge to pay for the cost of regulating what you do with the footage you take of the public.We have to do something. A country where every snoop has a plutonium refinery in his garden shed is a country in serious trouble.
Remember when games were glorious escapist entertainment? Following on from Brain Training and, the rather pointless, Sight Training, Nintendo are launching Math Training. No, really. The snappily titled Professor Kageyama's Math Training: The Hundred Cell Calculation Method is released on the 8th February and apparently provides a series of "fun, simple and straightforward maths problems for users to puzzle over". Players get to level up and earn medals if they complete daily challenges. Slightly more exciting is the opportunity to take part in wireless multiplayer against friends in a "Division Marathon". Not exactly Mario Kart then. But you know what? Thanks to Nintendo the gaming rules have changed. Their self improvement titles on the DS have banished the tacky memories ofedutainment. Three years ago the very concept of a "Math Training" game would have been laughed out of town. Now it will probably follow Brain Training and sit in the top 10 for the rest of the year. Or is maths a "training" game too far?
As a travelling journalist, I sometimes feel sorry for the Apple laptop users who tote around boat anchors, because Apple has never made an ultraportable of the sort that Windows users have been able to buy for more than a decade. But with the Apple notebook market growing fast, there must now be more than enough users who would queue up to buy a "thin and light" Mac laptop, and the rumours suggest Steve Jobs will announce one later today. Wired Blogs has evenmocked it up. It says:Most people are expecting a conventional sub-notebook -- a super-thin, lightweight laptop that ships without an optical CD/DVD drive. The MacBook Air may also dispense with a wired Ethernet port, according to rumor. It will be a purely wireless device, relying solely on Wi-Fi or other wireless technology for its connectivity -- hence the "Air" moniker.But the Air seems more like a ultra portable with a physical keyboard and multi-touch screen, according to our source (who we promised not to name but confirmed works at an Apple third-party vendor).Having used PCs like theFlyBook, which has a SIM slot, I like the idea of a permanently connected machine, though the Windows PC industry seems to be going for WiMax, to judge by this year's CES show. It's the option thatIntelis pushing really hard, and Apple is now an Intel shop.The other question is: How thin is thin? The thinnest Windows PC that I can remember using was theSony Vaio X505, more than three years ago. That was 0.75 inches at its thickest point and 0.3 inches at its thinnest, which will take some beating. Intel also showed a prototypeMetro(below), which was 0.7 inches thick, and had an external ancillary display courtesy of Windows Vista.A major drawback with ultra-thin machines is that there's a marked drop in the responsiveness of the keyboard, but Apple has already moved to ultra-thin but mediocre keyboards even where compromise isn't necessary. I'm sure it won't hesitate when compromise is required.As for ripping off Nike for the name, it's a different product category, and I'd guess Nike would be flattered, rather than upset.
Bobbie's been on the road for the past week or so, making sure that the latest episode of Tech Weekly brings you the coolest news from the sequence of technology shows that dominate the west Coast of the US - and the industry - at this time of year.Hot off the press is the latest from Macworld - including first reactions to the new MacBook Air. We discuss the developments on show at last week's CES (and ask who's going to take on Bill Gates's keynote next year). Plus, we've got an interview with Nicholas Negroponte, founder of One Laptop Per Child, who explains why he thinks the project doesn't deserve the stick it has been getting in the past few months.In the news there's iTunes harmonisation; a traffic boom for online video sites; the retirement of Jeff Raikes; and Andy Grove's funding of research into Parkinson's.The studio is graced with the presence of hostAleks Krotoski, who is joined by the twin talents ofCharles ArthurandJemima Kiss. Bobbie is on the road - with varying degrees of a terrible cold!And while you're here: we might be doing well in the iTunes chart, but it's still early days - this is only our fourth show! Tell us what you'd like to hear, or subjects you'd like us to cover.
TheAsus Eee PC(aka RM MiniBook) is a terrific little portable for the price, but it has some major drawbacks -- especially, for me, the horrible keyboard. If I had one, I'd certainly be interested in replacing it. In Taiwan, I might be able to do it.DigiTimesreprts that "a budding industry has begun to emerge in the Taiwan market with vendors offering Eee PC modification services to satisfy consumer demands."One of the most popular mods currently equips the Eee PC with touch screen capabilities which along with the installation of Windows XP Tablet edition enables the system to support handwriting input. The total cost of the mod including labor is only around NT$2,000 (US$62.08).As it also points out: "the range and popularity of the mods being tried at this time may have given Asustek's technicians ideas for future Eee PC models."No doubt the mods will also give ideas to the half-dozen other companies producing similar machines....
This icon recently appeared in the taskbar of my laptop running Windows XP. It does not respond to either a left or right mouse click. What is it for and is it a problem? Can I get rid of it?Brian GayI've blown the icon up a bit. Does anyone recognise it?
The social networking phenomenon is set to intensify this year with the launch of new specialist communities and the further commercialisation of services, according to a report from analysts at Experian.The report, The Impact of Social Networking, says companies will want to tap the trend for social networking but will tailor services for niche audiences that will attract advertisers.Specialist networks that have been launched recently include SagaZone, from the over-50s holiday and insurance specialists Saga, and the ResidentsHQ social network for high-end property developments.The report says that companies should develop these online cliques to identify and target "super advocates" - highly influential active web users who present a marketing challenge for brands.It added that companies need to "do everything at their disposal to keep these key influencers on side ... and avoid commercialism at all cost".Experian's Tony Mooney said companies need to think beyond gimmicks such as setting up a Facebook profile, and need to understand the web 2.0 environment."Just look at some of the marketing gaffes from last year when social network members spotted a hackneyed marketing campaign and tore it to shreds," he said."These companies simply didn't appreciate web 2.0's culture and paid the price by alienating the very people they were trying to attract."The report also predicts that market-leading sites such as Facebook, Bebo and MySpace will all make significant improvements in search and organisation this year, while developments in targeting brand messages according to users' profiles will make sites increasingly valuable to marketers.Facebook was the most popular social networking site in the UK during November, with around 37% of the market, according to both Experian-owned metrics firm Hitwise and the web measurement firm comScore.ComScore said social networking sites collectively saw 25 million unique users during November, with each user spending an average 334 minutes on the sites and making 24 separate visits.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Apple has already made waves with its iPod, iPhone and trendy desktop computers, but today the company threw out a new challenge to its competitors, unveiling the world's thinnest laptop and a new movie download system that it hopes will allow it to dominate the TV and movie business.The secretive Silicon Valley company confirmed the launch of a new lightweight laptop, the $1799 Macbook Air, which measures just three quarters of an inch deep – thin enough to fit inside an envelope.Also in his speech at Macworld in San Francisco, chief executive Steve Jobs said Apple would push to take control of the video industry with movie rentals and launch a revamped Apple TV product to stream films direct to television screens."On iTunes we've sold 125 million TV shows, and we've sold 7 million movies – it's more than everyone else put together, but it didn't meet our expectations," said Jobs. "I think we've got it right this time.""Significant shift" in the film industryUntil now iTunes customers have only been able to buy movies outright, a business that has not been as successful as Apple's entry into music. Apple TV, which allows video to be streamed from a computer to a television screen, has struggled to make an impact – but Jobs predicted that a relaunch of the device would mark a significant shift in the film industry."We've all tried to figure out how to get movies over the internet and onto the TV – but we've all missed, no one has succeeded yet," he said."We tried with Apple TV, but it's not what people wanted. So we're back with Apple TV take two – no computer is required. You can rent movies directly on your widescreen TV and you can rent them at DVD quality or you can rent then at high-definition quality."Costing $229, the system links into the company's plans to offer films to rent over the internet through its iTunes store, also confirmed today. Rumours of the plans had been widely reported in the past week, and the company said it would join with film studios including 20th Century Fox and Sony to allow iTunes users to stream movies live, direct to their computer or TV, for a one-off payment of between $3 and $5.A thousand new titlesThe system will launch with support from every major Hollywood studio, with a thousand new titles and back-catalogue films available by the end of February. The service will be launched immediately in the US, and is set to arrive around the world latest this year. "We're dying to get this international as well," he added.It is similar in concept to the TV download services offered by British broadcasters, including the BBC's iPlayer and Channel 4's on-demand service, but using Apple's systems will make downloads watchable on TV, iPods and iPhones.The excitement surrounding the secretive Silicon Valley company reached a high watermark last year as Jobs unveiled the iPhone, Apple's entry into the lucrative high-end mobile phone market. Since it launched in the US and Europe, the touchscreen handset has spawned a minor industry of competitors and copycats.Jobs said that the iPhone had sold 4 million units already, meaning that it was well on course to hit its target of selling 10 million units by the end of 2008 and had already captured 20% of the US smartphone market.Fevered anticipationThe excitement surrounding the iPhone had further increased expectations about today's announcements, with some Apple fans queuing up overnight to get a place at the event.Since the success of its trendy iMac and iPod, conceived as fashion items by British designer Jonathan Ive, Apple has been resurgent. The company's share price broke through the $200 barrier for the first time this week as speculation cranked up ahead of the announcements, and this week's Macworld show in San Francisco is expected to draw its largest ever number of visitors.
Just a quick heads-up, as we've been chatting about games on Mac recently. EA is apparently set to announce a simultaneous PC and Mac release for Will Wright's evolution simulation, Spore. The publisher has apparently been working with Mac/LinuxTransgamingto aid the tricky conversion process.(Via CNET)
It's a novel idea, the online petition service. In theory, it offers a voice for the disgruntled, a direct channel between The (Wo)Man On The Street and Those Who Act Against Us. Pity it's become somewhat of a farce.Take for example the many petitions started by irritated gamers onPetition Online. There are several requests for GoldenEye 007to appearon the Xbox 360. Quite a few people have signed a petition addressed to Warner Bros., Universal Studios and Paramount Pictures to "Save HD-DVD! (Warner Brothers, the Consumer Has Not "Clearly" Chosen Blu-Ray)". Unfortunately, the more noble petitions have been drowned out.There's even a band of merry PlayStation 3 pranksters who are petitioning SCEE/London Studios for several amendments to SingStar, the karaoke game. It was released in the UK on 7 December, but since then, this rabble feel they've been maligned on several points:*Network Outages *Lack of SingStore Updates *False Advertising *Lack of Community NewsOverall, users of SingStar PS3 love their game. They'd just like a bit more communication, reassurance and support from its makers - and less of the false advertising &amp; promises.If you feel the same way and want to join an increasingly loud chorus, head over toPetition Onlineand be heard.Alternatively, if you feel you have an axe to grind about any other game, let us be your mouthpiece and share the joy here.
The always interestingPersuasive Gameslaunched its latest serious/political/cultural game project today. Entitled Fatworld, it's an exploration of, "the relationships between obesity, nutrition, and socioeconomics in the contemporary U.S." Your role is to select a character and control them through an accelerated lifespan, planning and implementing their diet based on financial and cultural constraints.As the Persuasive websiteexplains:You can choose starting weights and health conditions, including predispositions towards ailments like diabetes, heart disease, or food allergies. You'll have to construct menus and recipes, decide what to eat and what to avoid, exercise (or not), and run a restaurant business to serve the rest of your town.By choosing your character's dietary and exercise habits, you can experiment with the constraints of nutrition and economics as they affect your character's general health. Will it be wheatgrass and soy? Or fried chicken at every meal? How much can you afford to spend on food, and how does that affect your general health? Characters who eat poorly will get fat. Characters who don't exercise will move around the world more laboriously. Disease and death will eventually ravage players with poor health, while those with good health will live to a ripe age.You can design your daily meal plan, choosing from hundreds of ingredients and recipes that ship with the game, or you can build your own from scratch and share them with friends online. Then you can exercise by walking around or playing a variety of exercise minigames. To affect the residents of Fatworld who aren't controlled by human players, you can create restaurants and decide what menus to offer.The game explores the sociopolitical paradox in which consumers are told that good nutrition is important, but are often forced into lifestyles where good eating becomes almost impossible. "Packaged foods make our overworked lives more convenient at the hidden cost of poor nutrition. Our hyper-consumerist, debt-driven culture impels us to work more, both pushing us toward high-fat fast food convenient and appealing and structuring our lives so we don't think we can make any time for exercise."It's an intriguing idea, carried out in Persuasive's usual graphical style, which blends satirical cuteness with gallons of peripheral detail. If you've read Fat Land, Fast Food Nation or one of the many other books dealing with the politics of junk food and obesity, give it a look. And considering the recent comments of McDonalds UK chief Steve Easterbrook, who claimed videogames are a key lifestyle element in the rise of childhood obesity (morehere), the game couldn't be more timely.There's a quick 'first look' atPlaythisthingand you can download the game to PC (or Mac, Aleks!),from here.
The usual excitement ahead of Macworld; and this time to add to all the fun, there's been a fake keynote leaked (though not, it seems, by Fake Steve Jobs, even though he's going to be at Macworld blogging Real Steve Jobs's Real-ity Distortion Field).The outline seems to have taken inPocket-lintand evenSteve Rubel, but asTechcrunchpoints out, it's missing essential elements such as Microsoft Office 2008 (d'oh!) and any mention of DRM.(Rubel saysSo come back tomorrow and then either a) we'll talk more about what this all means or b) ya'll make fun of me for being gullible and believing stuff on WikipediaCan we start now, Steve?Oh,the Wikipedia page, including criticisms. (Not that this is a criticism of Wikipedia; it's a repository for content, even completely made-up content, at times. In this case, for a very short time.)Anyway, for a reminder of the process that goes into a Steve Jobs keynote, refresh yourselves withBehind the magic curtain, by Mike Evangelist, who was for some years in charge of Apple's DVD-making software:On the day before showtime, things get much more structured, with at least one and sometimes two complete dress rehearsals. Any non-Apple presenters in the keynote take part on the second day (although they cannot be in the room while the secret parts - the unveiling of hot ticket hardware such as a new iPod or laptop - are being rehearsed.) Throughout it all Steve is extremely focused. While we were in that room, all his energy was directed at making this keynote the perfect embodiment of Apple's messages. Steve doesn't give up much of his personality even in rehearsals. He is strictly business, most of the time.
1Up has a phenomenal list of the top 101 best games in the indie marketplace, all of which are your for free. The majority are action shooters, but there are a few more "serious" options, includingDisaffected, dedicated to harassed Kinkos Copies employees everywhere, andI'm OK!, a game made to Jack Thompson's personal spec.TheWikigame, unfortunately, didn't make the cut.Get 'emhere.
Video search is widely tipped as the next digital market poised for a big take-off and the reason is simple: finding TV content quickly and efficiently will become increasingly important as the TV, internet and mobile devices share content more easily.Google dominates the text search business but when it comes to video search, the company has been hit with more lawsuits than plaudits as it tries to organise the world's video in the same way it has cornered text information.Google, along with rivals including Yahoo and Ask.com, is busily upgrading its main search service to offer multimedia results, including video from existing Google news, books and maps sections as well as YouTube, the video-sharing service it bought for $1.65bn in 2006.There is clearly a big and growing market at stake: the online advertising market is estimated by Microsoft to be worth $40bn today. Microsoft recently ramped up its own MSN video service to counter Google, and both Google and Microsoft have spent billions buying online advertising firms to help give value to search results by adding targeted advertising, both for traditional text searches and, increasingly, video searches.Rising broadband penetrations have driven demand for video from consumers, and media owners have had to respond or see their content stolen by peer-to-peer sharing sites. But according to David Gillies, director of technology at Pace Micro Technology: "For the time being, definitive search systems and business models are yet to emerge."Meanwhile, how video is "discovered" is also evolving. For example, Google searches video using titles and descriptions provided by content owners; this is the so-called metadata associated with a piece of content rather than an analysis of the video and accompanying audio itself. Some newer search services like Blinkx have technology that tag and then scan content scene by scene using advanced voice recognition software to analyse accompanying soundtracks. Still others, like ChaCha, use a process involving the recruitment of thousands of human guides who identify content on behalf of users, similar to how Wikipedia allows anyone to edit a wiki entry."At one end of the spectrum is high value content - big TV shows and movies which you can already search for easily by title, transmission or release date," says Blinkx chief executive officer Suranga Chandratillake."At the other is the long tail of usergenerated content for which video search works well but [where] advertising revenue potential is more limited because the environment is less predictable."Blinkx has decided to focus on what Chandratillake calls "the bit in the middle" - professionally produced content that the company believes will be popular and can be searched by topic.An interesting trend in video search is how internet search engines might be integrated with, or even compete with, TV on-screen electronic programme guides (EPG). "[The guides] were designed around linear channels existing in a broadcast TV environment," says Gerry O'Sullivan, director of strategic product development at pay TV company BSkyB.What people wantSky has already designed an online EPG for its Sky Anytime service that covers TV, PC and mobile Sky services. "While I don't think services such as ours will replace the EPG on TV for a while, eventually when you can view video from the internet on your TV set, we will subsume the EPG," says O'Sullivan.Online information sources like the Internet Movie database (imdb.com) are changing the way people expect to find content, which is forcing the TV EPG is become more flexible and interactive. "We are learning online what people want to search in content and applying this to the TV experience," says O'Sullivan.These are lessons that are shaping a new EPG for Sky HDTV customers launching later this year. "Already we create tags from a number of sources and our aim is to incorporate finer details taken from production notes to offer a comprehensive IMDB-style experience."The TV EPG may not be dead but it is certainly evolving fast and the online search giants are clearly going to be a big part of how video is discovered across a variety of devices, including, but not limited to, TV screens.
If you fancy a good read,Project Gutenberghas more than 22,000 books available to download, and they are all free. You can't grab the latest blockbusters, of course. Instead the database provides access to out-of-copyright texts, which generally means pre-1923, for the US site. You can download works by Jane Austen, Charlotte Bronte, Mark Twain, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, Joseph Conrad, HG Wells, William Shakespeare and many others, going back through Beowulf to Plato.And if this sort of thing doesn't appeal to you, why not contribute something? Project Gutenberg is a volunteer effort. There's no particular logic to the selection of works. They are all texts that someone somewhere felt were worth the effort to retype or, more likely, scan in.Project Gutenberg is participating in Yahoo's Content Acquisition Program, but has been going far longer. It was started in 1971 by Michael Hart, who had been given $100,000,000 worth of computer time on a mainframe, and according to the project's FAQ it began to take its current form in 1991.A book a dayIn 1991, the target was to add one book each month. By 1996 it was a book a day. Today, about 400 books are added each month.Volunteers do more than just retype and scan books. The organisation has a volunteer chief executive, production directors, a posting team and, via a companion project, hundreds ofDistributed Proofreaders. It's a real community effort.The Project Gutenberg database also includes some audio books, photos, videos and music files, but it's mostly e-texts, mostly in English. It tries to make everything available in plain ASCII text, though other formats are acceptable.Disaster-proofThe ultimate aim is preservation. The site says: "The point of putting works in the PG archive is that they are copied to many, many public sites and individual computers all over the world. No single disaster can destroy them; no single government can suppress them. Long after we're all dead and gone, when the very concept of an ISP is as quaint as gas streetlamps, when HTML reads like Middle English, those texts will still be safe, copied, and available to our descendants."The Project Gutenberg website is similarly plain, with very little marketing. A commercial organisation might have recommendations - a book of the day, an author of the week, and suchlike. Instead you are left to find books for yourself by searching the database, or you can skim charts of the Top 100 books and authors yesterday, over the past 7 days or the past 30 days.Surprisingly, perhaps, the most-downloaded books over the past month are The Outline of Science, Vol 1, by J. Arthur Thomson; Manual of Surgery Volume First: General Surgery, by Miles and Thomson; and Manners, Custom and Dress During the Middle Ages and During the Renaissance Period, by Paul Lacroix.But if Alice in Wonderland, Machiavelli's The Prince, or Tolstoy's War and Peace are more your bag, Project Gutenberg has those too.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
Social networks have moved centre stage to become the must-have partners for anyone eager to maximise the distribution of their content online. Many TV content owners have shifted their attention from simply using their own branded portals to adopting a broader approach to content distribution.Social networking sites like MySpace are even getting into the co-production game. Recently revived Hammer Films is using MySpace to co-produce and premiere new "webisodes" that update the film studio's legendary B-movie, gore-and-vampire themes for a modern audience.Meanwhile, Bebo is attracting content owners through a new initiative called Open Media. This allows content owners to keep all the ad revenues generated around the content they post on Bebo. So far, more than 60 organisations, including the BBC, Channel 4, ITN and MTV have signed up to provide the social network with their content in exchange for access to its online network of 40 million 15- to 23-year-olds."Much has changed in just the last few months," says Bebo's director of strategy and operations, Evan Cohen. "A year ago the focus of many established content providers was on their own websites. Today there's a real eagerness to find new routes to reach their audience - especially the youth audience - through multiple or blended distribution platform deals."Social networks are attracting audiences. According to Ofcom, UK adults spend more time on social networking sites than their European neighbours, with 4 in 10 UK adults saying they regularly visit the sites and spend an average of 5.3 hours each month on them. And among younger users, social networks can be even more attractive. Bebo says its users spend an average of 40 minutes per visit on its site.Not so long ago, most content owners believed they could approach digital media with the traditional command and control approach once taken for granted in the old media world. Such thinking, however, holds no water in a web 2.0 world in which consumers value breadth of choice and, increasingly, expect to get content from a variety of sources - not just the web portal of the content creator or media organisation that commissioned it.Blended distributionSo-called blended distribution (using various platforms to deliver content) is at the heart of the BBC's approach, says BBC director of future media and technology Ashley Highfield. "We've always syndicated bbc.co.uk content to third parties - be that RSS feeds or AOL, MSN, YouTube and Yahoo - and it's worked well." According to Highfield, the monthly audience for bbc.co.uk is 17 million while the audience for BBC content consumed online, away from its branded site, is another eight million. "For us it has added significant reach," says Highfield. "The thinking was - and still is - to drive audience from clips of BBC content, shown on third-party sites like YouTube, back to bbc.co.uk to access the full programme using the BBC i-Player."In recent months, the BBC has stepped up its third-party distribution strategy. Much like NBC Universal and News Corp have done with hulu.com in the US, it has joined forces with ITV and Channel 4 to develop a new online, on-demand service called Kangaroo."We hope Kangaroo will provide us with an additional must-visit destination for longer-form content," says David Moody, managing director of BBC Worldwide's media division and an architect of the BBC's involvement in Kangaroo. "Kangaroo is a complementary strategy over and beyond the BBC's existing online presence. The way ahead will be to satisfy both demand for long-form programming and bite-sized content for people to snack on online."Although less advanced as a strategy, blended distribution is also the priority for ITV, says ITV Broadband managing director Annelies van den Belt. So far ITV has not signed a deal with Bebo, but van den Belt says ITV sees "opportunities to syndicate our video player across partner sites to ensure commercial opportunities around our content are managed by us".Embedding branded players on thirdparty sites may allow a content owner to control the viewing experience and manage the commercial opportunities around a piece of content, but it is only one of several ways in which content will be monetised, says Tudor Aw, convergence partner at KPMG."Media owners will always have their own portals because these will always generate incremental revenue," he says. Pay-per-view, advertiser-supported and subscription will all have a role to play - depending on the nature of a particular piece of content. "The new challenge will be how to best manage a wide and diverse digital property portfolio with fragmented revenue streams. And for the time being at least, there is no definitive answer to this."
"I despise Facebook," writes Tom Hodgkinson, the editor of The Idler, intoday's G2 section of The Guardian.Clearly, Facebook is another uber-capitalist experiment: can you make money out of friendship? Can you create communities free of national boundaries - and then sell Coca-Cola to them? Facebook is profoundly uncreative. It makes nothing at all. It simply mediates in relationships that were happening anyway.Mainly, Hodgkinson has a go at Facebook's backers, Peter Thiel and Jim Breyer. But he also suggests: "Just for fun, try substituting the words 'Big Brother' whenever you read the word 'Facebook'."Hodgkinson says: "For my own part, I am going to retreat from the whole thing, remain as unplugged as possible, and spend the time I save by not going on Facebook doing something useful, such as reading books."This will not surprise anyone who remembers an earlier Hodgkinson effort:Why I decided to pull the plug on email.Alongside my "no email" policy, I resolve to make better use of the wonderful Royal Mail, and send letters and postcards to people. There is a huge pleasure in writing a letter, putting it in an envelope and sticking the stamp on it. And huge pleasure in receiving real letters, too.Letters and postcards? In their day, those were merely new technologies for frivolity! People didn't spend so much time writing trivia when everything had to be engraved on stone tablets....
Andy Grove, 71, the man who built Intel into a powerhouse in the chip business, is funding research into Parkinson's disease.Forbes magazinesays:Over the past eight years Grove has immersed himself in the minutiae of the disease and has used his money and his stature to agitate for more and faster research on the neurology of Parkinson's. "You can't go close to this and not get angry," says Grove. "There are so many people working so hard and achieving so little."Grove, who is worth an estimated $400 million, has committed $22 million to Parkinson's research and pledged a $40 million bequest to the Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research, to which he is an adviser. "There's 500,000 Andy Groves out there, and 500,000 Michael J. Fox's. Whatever is good for me is going to be good for a large constituency," he says.Having survived prostate cancer, Grove has kept a low profile on Parkinson's disease:Grove initially shared his diagnosis with only the Intel board and a few colleagues and friends; it became known to the public only in a 2006 biography by Richard Tedlow. "I did not want to become a poster child for yet another disease. I was so sick of being the first and last contact for prostate cancer," he says. "Cancer you don't see. This thing [Parkinson's] makes me look like an old man. And I'm a vain guy."As I'vesaid before, "Of all the people I've met in 25 years in the computer business, the one I most admire is Andy Grove." He's one of the people who makes a difference.
With its power-hungry gadgets and thousands of delegates flying in from across the world, an enormous technology conference hardly seems an appropriate venue for championing green issues. But the group behind the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas last week is trying to demonstrate that technology may be about saving the environment rather than damaging it.With ecological concerns playing an increasing part in the decisions made by shoppers, plenty of the 2,700 companies showing off their latest technologies seemed desperate to claim any sort of green credentials. However, some companies at CES really were attempting to produce innovative technologies to reduce damage to the environment.Fujitsu BibloLater this year the Japanese manufacturer will launch a laptop in its home market which is moving away from  plastic: instead, the Biblo PC has a case made partially from corn oil. According to the company this means it is biodegradable, although scientists have questioned whether it will make any difference since the corn-based plastic is mixed with a petroleum-based material. Using corn reduces the amount of carbon dioxide emitted during its creation by 15%, but it does nothing to minimise the toxicity of the computer's internal workings. Fujitsu says the development is a response to consumer demand.Fujitsu Biblo laptop, with casing partly made from corn oilOLEDSeen by many inside the technology industry as the green successor to flat-screen televisions, the Organic LED screen uses less power than normal TVs and delivers a better picture. The tiny pockets of material inside the screen produce their own light. Although OLED screens are small due to the difficulty of making them, Korean manufacturer Samsung showed off a 32-inch model at CES and says it will go into full production by 2010. Japanese rival Sony has an 11-inch model on the market - but it costs $2,500 (&pound;1,276).Sony's OLED television, which costs £2,500, on display at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. Photo: Robyn Beck/AFPNokiaThe world's largest phone maker is trying hard to improve the image of the mobile phone industry, which is responsible for a large portion of the mountain of gadgets discarded every year. Its latest drive is to encourage people to buy a phone made from recycled and reused parts - the Nokia 3100 Evolve. Built from renewable material and packing a charger which claims much better efficiency than some of its rivals, it is available in Europe. The company also showed off an Eco Sensor Phone, which is able to analyse the owner's health, environmental changes and local weather patterns.The Nokia 3100 Evolve is made from 50% renewable biomaterials. In addition, its charger uses 95% less powerGreen PlugPart of Nokia's approach is based on research which shows that huge amounts of energy is wasted because people do not switch off their mobile phone chargers after charging. Although the Finnish company is working on its own technology to stop this, one of the big stories of the conference has been the Green Plug. The device promises to help the environment by using software that lets your gadget talk to its power supply. If no more charge is needed, the plug will switch itself off.Horizon fuel cellsAlternative energy sources were in limited evidence at CES this year, despite technologies using hydrogen and ethanol to create no-emissions power having been heavily promoted in the past. Shanghai-based Horizon, however, was displaying what it says will be some of the world's first commercially available fuel cell products, including a generator which needs only water. Pouring liquid into a container the size of a large can of drink is enough to cause a fuel cell reaction with a chemical compound inside to generate power. One canister is enough to power 10 laptops, and they should be available to buy this year.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Wednesday January 16 2008The US intelligence community's enthusiasm for hi-tech innovation after 9/11 and the creation of In-Q-Tel, its venture capital fund, in 1999 were anachronistically linked in the article below. Since 9/11 happened in 2001 it could not have led to the setting up of In-Q-Tel two years earlier.I despise Facebook. This enormously successful American business describes itself as "a social utility that connects you with the people around you". But hang on. Why on God's earth would I need a computer to connect with the people around me? Why should my relationships  be mediated through the imagination of a bunch of supergeeks in California? What was wrong with the pub?And does Facebook really connect people? Doesn't it rather disconnect us, since instead of doing something enjoyable such as talking and eating and dancing and drinking with my friends, I am merely sending them little ungrammatical notes and amusing photos in cyberspace, while chained to my desk? A friend of mine recently told me that he had spent a Saturday night at home alone on Facebook, drinking at his desk. What a gloomy image. Far from connecting us, Facebook actually isolates us at our workstations.Facebook appeals to a kind of vanity and self-importance in us, too. If I put up a flattering picture of myself with a list of my favourite things, I can construct an artificial representation of who I am in order to get sex or approval. ("I like Facebook," said another friend. "I got a shag out of it.") It also encourages a disturbing competitivness around friendship: it seems that with friends today, quality counts for nothing and quantity is king. The more friends you have, the better you are. You are "popular", in the sense much loved in American high schools. Witness the cover line on Dennis Publishing's new Facebook magazine: "How To Double Your Friends List."It seems, though, that I am very much alone in my hostility. At the time of writing Facebook claims 59 million active users, including 7 million in the UK, Facebook's third-biggest customer after the US and Canada. That's 59 million suckers, all of whom have volunteered their ID card information and consumer preferences to an American business they know nothing about. Right now, 2 million new people join each week. At the present rate of growth, Facebook will have more than 200 million active users by this time next year. And I would predict that, if anything, its rate of growth will accelerate over the coming months. As its spokesman Chris Hughes says: "It's embedded itself to an extent where it's hard to get rid of."All of the above would have been enough to make me reject Facebook for ever. But there are more reasons to hate it. Many more.Facebook is a well-funded project, and the people behind the funding, a group of Silicon Valley venture capitalists, have a clearly thought out ideology that they are hoping to spread around the world. Facebook is one manifestation of this ideology. Like PayPal before it, it is a social experiment, an expression of a particular kind of neoconservative libertarianism. On Facebook, you can be free to be who you want to be, as long as you don't mind being bombarded by adverts for the world's biggest brands. As with PayPal, national boundaries are a thing of the past.Although the project was initially conceived by media cover star Mark Zuckerberg, the real face behind Facebook is the 40-year-old Silicon Valley venture capitalist and futurist philosopher Peter Thiel. There are only three board members on Facebook, and they are Thiel, Zuckerberg and a third investor called Jim Breyer from a venture capital firm called Accel Partners (more on him later). Thiel invested $500,000 in Facebook when Harvard students Zuckerberg, Chris Hughes and Dustin Moskowitz went to meet him in San Francisco in June 2004, soon after they had launched the site. Thiel now reportedly owns 7% of Facebook, which, at Facebook's current valuation of $15bn, would be worth more than $1bn. There is much debate on who exactly were the original co-founders of Facebook, but whoever they were, Zuckerberg is the only one left on the board, although Hughes and Moskowitz still work for the company.Thiel is widely regarded in Silicon Valley and in the US venture capital scene as a libertarian genius. He is the co-founder and CEO of the virtual banking system PayPal, which he sold to Ebay for $1.5bn, taking $55m for himself. He also runs a &pound;3bn hedge fund called Clarium Capital Management and a venture capital fund called Founders Fund. Bloomberg Markets magazine recently called him "one of the most successful hedge fund managers in the country". He has made money by betting on rising oil prices and by correctly predicting that the dollar would weaken. He and his absurdly wealthy Silicon Valley mates have recently been labelled "The PayPal Mafia" by Fortune magazine, whose reporter also observed that Thiel has a uniformed butler and a $500,000 McLaren supercar.  Thiel is also a chess master and intensely competitive. He has been known to sweep the chessmen off the table in a fury when losing. And he does not apologise for this hyper-competitveness, saying: "Show me a good loser and I'll show you a loser."But Thiel is more than just a clever and avaricious  capitalist. He is a futurist philosopher and neocon activist. A philosophy graduate from Stanford, in 1998 he co-wrote a book called The Diversity Myth, which is a detailed attack on liberalism and the multiculturalist ideology that dominated Stanford. He claimed that the "multiculture" led to a lessening of individual freedoms. While a student at Stanford, Thiel founded a rightwing journal, still up and running, called The Stanford Review - motto: Fiat Lux ("Let there be light"). Thiel is a member of TheVanguard.Org, an internet-based neoconservative pressure group that was set up to attack MoveOn.org, a liberal pressure group that works on the web. Thiel calls himself "way libertarian".TheVanguard is run by one Rod D Martin, a philosopher-capitalist whom Thiel greatly admires. On the site, Thiel says: "Rod is one of our nation's leading minds in the creation of new and needed ideas for public policy. He possesses a more complete understanding of America than most executives have of their own businesses."This little taster from their website will give you an idea of their vision for the world: "TheVanguard.Org is an online community of Americans who believe in conservative values, the free market and limited government as the best means to bring hope and ever-increasing opportunity to everyone, especially the poorest among us." Their aim is to promote policies that will "reshape America and the globe". TheVanguard describes its politics as "Reaganite/Thatcherite". The chairman's message says: "Today we'll teach MoveOn [the liberal website], Hillary and the leftwing media some lessons they never imagined."So, Thiel's politics are not in doubt. What about his philosophy? I listened to a podcast of an address Thiel gave about his ideas for the future. His philosophy, briefly, is this: since the 17th century, certain enlightened thinkers have been taking the world away from the old-fashioned nature-bound life, and here he quotes Thomas Hobbes' famous characterisation of life as "nasty, brutish and short", and towards a new virtual world where we have conquered nature. Value now exists in imaginary things. Thiel says that PayPal was motivated by this belief: that you can find value not in real manufactured objects, but in the relations between human beings. PayPal was a way of moving money around the world with no restriction. Bloomberg Markets puts it like this: "For Thiel, PayPal was all about freedom: it would enable people to skirt currency controls and move money around the globe."Clearly, Facebook is another uber-capitalist experiment: can you make money out of friendship? Can you create communities free of national boundaries - and then sell Coca-Cola to them? Facebook is profoundly uncreative. It  makes nothing at all. It simply mediates in relationships that were happening anyway.Photo: Tim Boyle/GettyThiel's philosophical mentor is one Ren&eacute; Girard of Stanford University, proponent of a theory of human behaviour called mimetic desire. Girard reckons that people are essentially sheep-like and will copy one another without much reflection. The theory would also seem to be proved correct in the case of Thiel's virtual worlds: the desired object is irrelevant; all you need to know is that human beings will tend to move in flocks. Hence financial bubbles. Hence the enormous popularity of Facebook. Girard is a regular at Thiel's intellectual soirees. What you don't hear about in Thiel's philosophy, by the way, are old-fashioned real-world concepts such as art, beauty, love, pleasure and truth.The internet is immensely appealing to neocons such as Thiel because it promises a certain sort of freedom in human relations and in business, freedom from pesky national laws, national boundaries and suchlike. The internet opens up a world of free trade and laissez-faire expansion. Thiel also seems to approve of offshore tax havens, and claims that 40% of the world's wealth resides in places such as Vanuatu, the Cayman Islands, Monaco and Barbados. I think it's fair to say that Thiel, like Rupert Murdoch, is against tax. He also likes the globalisation of digital culture because it makes the banking overlords hard to attack: "You can't have a workers' revolution to take over a bank if the bank is in Vanuatu," he says.If life in the past was nasty, brutish and short, then in the future Thiel wants to make it much longer, and to this end he has also invested in a firm that is exploring life-extension technologies. He has pledged &pound;3.5m to a Cambridge-based gerontologist called Aubrey de Grey, who is searching for the key to immortality. Thiel is also on the board of advisers of something called the Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence. From its fantastical website, the following: "The Singularity is the technological creation of smarter-than-human intelligence. There are several technologies ... heading in this direction ... Artificial Intelligence ... direct brain-computer interfaces ... genetic engineering ... different technologies which, if they reached a threshold level of sophistication, would enable the creation of smarter-than-human intelligence."So by his own admission, Thiel is trying to destroy the real world, which he also calls "nature", and install a virtual world in its place, and it is in this context that we must view the rise of Facebook. Facebook is a deliberate  experiment in global manipulation, and Thiel is a bright young thing in the neoconservative pantheon, with a penchant for far-out techno-utopian fantasies. Not someone I want to help get any richer.The third board member of Facebook is Jim Breyer. He is a partner in the venture capital firm Accel Partners, who put $12.7m into Facebook in April 2005. On the board of such US giants as Wal-Mart and Marvel Entertainment, he is also a former chairman of the National Venture Capital Association (NVCA). Now these are the people who are really making things happen in America, because they invest in the new young talent, the Zuckerbergs and the like. Facebook's most recent round of funding was led by a company called Greylock Venture Capital, who put in the sum of $27.5m. One of Greylock's senior partners is called Howard Cox, another former chairman of the NVCA, who is also on the board of In-Q-Tel. What's In-Q-Tel? Well, believe it or not (and check out their website), this is the venture-capital wing of the CIA. After 9/11, the US intelligence community became so excited by the possibilities of new technology and the innovations being made in the private sector, that in 1999 they set up their own venture capital fund, In-Q-Tel, which "identifies and partners with companies developing cutting-edge technologies to help deliver these solutions to the Central Intelligence Agency and the broader US Intelligence Community (IC) to further their missions".The US defence department and the CIA love technology because it makes spying easier. "We need to find new ways to deter new adversaries," defence secretary Donald Rumsfeld said in 2003. "We need to make the leap into the information age, which is the critical foundation of our transformation efforts." In-Q-Tel's first chairman was Gilman Louie, who served on the board of the NVCA with Breyer. Another key figure in the In-Q-Tel team is Anita K Jones, former director of defence research and engineering for the US department of defence, and - with Breyer - board member of BBN Technologies. When she left the US department of defence, Senator Chuck Robb paid her the following tribute: "She brought the technology and operational military communities together to design detailed plans to sustain US dominance on the battlefield into the next century."Now even if you don't buy the idea that Facebook is some kind of extension of the American imperialist programme crossed with a massive information-gathering tool, there is no way of denying that as a business, it is pure mega-genius. Some net nerds have suggsted that its $15bn valuation is excessive, but I would argue that if anything that is too modest. Its scale really is dizzying, and the potential for growth is virtually limitless. "We want everyone to be able to use Facebook," says the impersonal voice of Big Brother on the website. I'll bet they do. It is Facebook's enormous potential that led Microsoft to buy 1.6% for $240m. A recent rumour says that Asian investor Lee Ka-Shing, said to be the ninth richest man in the world, has bought 0.4% of Facebook for $60m.The creators of the site need do very little bar fiddle with the programme. In the main, they simply sit back and watch as millions of Facebook addicts voluntarily upload their ID details, photographs and lists of their favourite consumer objects. Once in receipt of this vast database of human beings, Facebook then simply has to sell the information back to advertisers, or, as Zuckerberg puts it in a recent blog post, "to try to help people share information with their friends about things they do on the web". And indeed, this is precisely what's happening. On November 6 last year, Facebook announced that 12 global brands had climbed on board. They included Coca-Cola, Blockbuster, Verizon, Sony Pictures and Cond&eacute; Nast. All trained in marketing bullshit of the highest order, their representatives made excited comments along the following lines:"With Facebook Ads, our brands can become a part of the way users communicate and interact on Facebook," said Carol Kruse, vice president, global interactive marketing, the Coca-Cola Company."We view this as an innovative way to cultivate relationships with millions of Facebook users by enabling them to interact with Blockbuster in convenient, relevant and entertaining ways," said Jim Keyes, Blockbuster chairman and CEO. "This is beyond creating advertising impressions. This is about Blockbuster participating in the community of the consumer so that, in return, consumers feel motivated to share the benefits of our brand with their friends.""Share" is Facebookspeak for "advertise". Sign up to Facebook and you become a free walking, talking advert for Blockbuster or Coke, extolling the virtues of these brands to your friends. We are seeing the commodification of human relationships, the extraction of capitalistic value from friendships.Now, by comparision with Facebook, newspapers, for example, begin to look hopelessly outdated as a business model. A newspaper sells advertising space to businesses looking to sell stuff to their readers. But the system is far less sophisticated than Facebook for two reasons. One is that newspapers have to put up with the irksome expense of paying journalists to provide the content. Facebook gets its content for free. The other is that Facebook can target advertising with far greater precision than a newspaper. Admit on Facebook that your favourite film is This Is Spinal Tap, and when a Spinal Tap-esque movie comes out, you can be sure that they'll be sending ads your way.Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg (Photo: Paul Sakuma/AP)It's true that Facebook recently got into hot water with its Beacon advertising programme.  Users were notified that one of their friends had made a purchase at certain online shops; 46,000 users felt that this level of advertising was intrusive, and signed a petition called "Facebook! Stop invading my privacy!" to say so. Zuckerberg apologised on his company blog. He has written that they have now changed the system from "opt-out" to "opt-in". But I suspect that this little rebellion about being so ruthlessly commodified will soon be forgotten: after all, there was a national outcry by the civil liberties movement when the idea of a police force was mooted in the UK in the mid 19th century.Futhermore, have you Facebook users ever actually read the privacy policy? It tells you that you don't have much privacy. Facebook pretends to be about freedom, but isn't it really more like an ideologically motivated virtual totalitarian regime with a population that will very soon exceed the UK's? Thiel and the rest have created their own country, a country of consumers.Now, you may, like Thiel and the other new masters of the cyberverse, find this social experiment tremendously exciting. Here at last is the Enlightenment state longed for since the Puritans of the 17th century sailed away to North America, a world where everyone is free to express themselves as they please, according to who is watching. National boundaries are a thing of the past and everyone cavorts together in freewheeling virtual space. Nature has been conquered through man's boundless ingenuity. Yes, and you may decide to send genius investor Thiel all your money, and certainly you'll be waiting impatiently for the public flotation of the unstoppable Facebook.Or you might reflect that you don't really want to be part of this heavily-funded programme to create an arid global virtual republic, where your own self and your relationships with your friends are converted into commodites on sale to giant global brands. You may decide that you don't want to be part of this takeover bid for the world.For my own part, I am going to retreat from the whole thing, remain as unplugged as possible, and spend the time I save by not going on Facebook doing something useful, such as reading books. Why would I want to waste my time on Facebook when I still haven't read Keats' Endymion? And when there are seeds to be sown in my own back yard? I don't want to retreat from nature, I want to reconnect with it. Damn air-conditioning! And if I want to connect with the people around me, I will revert to an old piece of technology. It's free, it's easy and it delivers a uniquely individual experience in sharing information: it's called talking.Facebook's privacy policyJust for fun, try substituting the words 'Big Brother' whenever you read the word 'Facebook'1 We will advertise at you"When you use Facebook, you may set up your personal profile, form relationships, send messages, perform searches and queries, form groups, set up events, add applications, and transmit information through various channels. We collect this information so that we can provide you the service and offer personalised features."2 You can't delete anything"When you update information, we usually keep a backup copy of the prior version for a reasonable period of time to enable reversion to the prior version of that information."3 Anyone can glance at your intimate confessions"... we cannot and do not guarantee that user content you post on the site will not be viewed by unauthorised persons. We are not responsible for circumvention of any privacy settings or security measures contained on the site. You understand and acknowledge that, even after removal, copies of user content may remain viewable in cached and archived pages or if other users have copied or stored your user content."4 Our marketing profile of you will be unbeatable"Facebook may also collect information about you from other sources, such as newspapers, blogs, instant messaging services, and other users of the Facebook service through the operation of the service (eg, photo tags) in order to provide you with more useful information and a more personalised experience."5 Opting out doesn't mean opting out"Facebook reserves the right to send you notices about your account even if you opt out of all voluntary email notifications."6 The CIA may look at the stuff when they feel like it"By using Facebook, you are consenting to have your personal data transferred to and processed in the United States ... We may be required to disclose user information pursuant to lawful requests, such as subpoenas or court orders, or in compliance with applicable laws. We do not reveal information until we have a good faith belief that an information request by law enforcement or private litigants meets applicable legal standards. Additionally, we may share account or other information when we believe it is necessary to comply with law, to protect our interests or property, to prevent fraud or other illegal activity perpetrated through the Facebook service or using the Facebook name, or to prevent imminent bodily harm. This may include sharing information with other companies, lawyers, agents or government agencies."
I've recently spent a few hours playing, and reviewing,Scene It?for the Xbox 360. The film quiz game comes withBuzz!inspired special controllers and is clearly part of Microsoft's attempt to grab a slice of the expanding casual gaming market that the Wii has tapped so brilliantly. But while the game is entertaining enough it still panders, however subtly, to the 360's core user. Yes, Scene It? is pick and up play easy but the need to have a decent knowledge of movies will be best appreciated by 20 and 30-something males with extensive DVD collections. Or in other words, the 360's core audience.And it isn't just Scene It? that has tried, and failed, to make the 360 more appealing to the casual market. Look atViva Piñata, Microsoft's other attempt to widen the 360's audience. Obviously conceived as a "kids" game - tie-in cartoon, cute and colourful characters, non-violent action - Piñata ended up as a deceptively deep sim game with a steep initial learning curve. Yes the kids may have enjoyed the characters and setting but mum and dad probably controlled the action.This struggle to create a universally accessible game seems to be a problem for the 360. Look at Xbox Live. It's a great, by far the best online service on a console. Sign up and you get access to a stack of casual games like Zuma, Bejewelled, Hexic and the rest. But considering that you have to purchase a 360 before you are able to buy these games - most of which you can get quite easily for your PC already, remember - and you can see why the casual audience could be put off.You all know the story. The success of the Wii has made the whole industry scramble to create casual games. But the Xbox made its name by appealing to the classic gaming audience who love shooters, driving and sports games. And it has done it superbly - if you like traditional videogames the 360 is still the best there is. Despite this, reaching out to the casual market makes sense for Microsoft, especially with sales beginning to soften in some territories. But until the 360 gets some truly accessible games it will remain the console for the hardcore only.
The English version of Wikipedia, the online reference resource that anyone can edit, now contains almost 2.2 million articles. The French version has just over 600,000, the Polish about 450,000. On the bottom tier, the versions boasting between 20,000 and 40,000 articles include Bosnian, Basque, Vietnamese - and something called Simple English.If you're wondering what the latter means, here's the Simple English explanation: "Articles in the Simple English Wikipedia use fewer words and easier grammar than the Ordinary English Wikipedia." It's intended for students, children and people who are learning English, but it's also used by people who find that the basic grammar and vocabulary "helps them to understand unfamiliar topics or complex ideas".If you've ever attempted to answer a child's question about the causes of the first world war by excusing yourself on a flimsy pretext, dashing to a computer and Googling the relevant information, then the Simple English Wikipedia is the one-stop answer shop for you. "In the country of Austria-Hungary," you can parrot, "there lived many people who spoke different languages ... "In contrast to the accumulative and needlessly prolix articles often found in regular Wikipedia, the Simple English version tends to stick to commonly accepted facts and rarely tells you more than you want to know. Lindsay Lohan's entry runs to just three sentences, one of which is "She plays the guitar very well and has done many singing parts." In contrast, the standard Wikipedia version of her life is 4,000 words long.Simple English is based on Basic English, an international language devised by Charles Ogden in the 1920s, which is confined to just 850 words, and a Voice of America protocol for overseas broadcasts called Special English. Those writing for the Simple English Wikipedia are advised to limit themselves to about 1,000 common words and to avoid idioms and ambiguity of meaning. Of course, one could argue that certain of life's complexities simply cannot be conveyed in this manner, but then again, what you don't know about Lindsay Lohan won't hurt you.
DAIHATSU MATERIA&pound;10,995Miles per gallon: 39.2Seats: 5Good for: TenorsBad for: The SopranosSitting at a standstill on the M4 one cold January afternoon - cursing once again John Prescott for having the 'brilliant' idea of turning the Heathrow fast lane into a bus lane - my eye is caught by the driver of an old Vauxhall Cavalier next to me. He's in the throes of some terrible spasm. His mouth gapes open in a shaking rictus, his bloodless hands grip the steering wheel. A few moments pass before his shoulders suddenly slump and his head bows. Then he looks up, smiling broadly. I realise he has just given the bravura performance of a lifetime and his imaginary audience of blinking brake lights and smoking exhaust pipes are going crazy...According to Vauxhall, 87 per cent of us like to sing in our cars - though clearly not all are command performances like Mr Cavalier's. And, apparently, there are two main benefits to singing while you drive: 1) No one can hear you (phew) and 2) cars, with their combination of hard reflective surfaces and soft absorbent surfaces, offer a fantastic acoustic 'sound space'.Not all cars are going to make you want to warble, of course, but Daihatsu's new supermini, with its blocky bonnet, squared wheel arches and vertical rear end will soon have you exploring the far shores of Eighties nostalgia rock. The Materia, which revels in a classically meaningless Japanese name somehow lost in translation, is the inevitable result of Japan's twin obsessions with boxy design and size. And it is the perfect response to the country's search for a vehicle with the maximum internal space encased within the smallest possible shell. So, just as city architects discovered that when you can't build out any more you start going up, so car designers have found that a narrow, short and tall box gives you plenty of room. Basically, they've turned the cereal packet on its end...The Materia looks almost cartoonish - it's a ZZ Top hot rod crossed with Postman Pat's delivery van. It's much shorter than your average saloon, but it's also at least a foot taller. This means that there is so much head clearance even Amy Winehouse's beehive would survive intact. The short wheelbase means the seating position is very erect, so it feels more like driving a van than a car, which again adds to the Materia's Tardis-like qualities.As you'd hope with a car that could have escaped from Wacky Races, the Materia doesn't take itself too seriously. It's cheap and cheerful. The finishing is plasticky, the seats lightweight and the parcel shelf little more than a strip of fabric - even the Materia badge is just a sticker - but the styling, from back-lit speakers to a centrally positioned dash, means it all feels funky rather than feeble.On the road, the Materia is more serious than you'd think. The 1.5 litre engine is both economical and perky - 0-62mph in 10.2 seconds is not to be sniffed at in a car this size. It's light on its feet, too, when it comes to handling, and it turned the boring chore of city driving into a freewheeling adventure. And best of all, the tinted windows mean keen singers have no fear of being watched.martin.love@observer.co.uk
We're still waiting for the OLPC we ordered in the US to arrive at Guardian Towers (US), but in the meantime other lucky folk have got theirs and, inevitably, are dismembering them and putting the photos all over the net.But the thing about the XO (to name it properly) is that it'smeantto be dismembered. And then put back together easily, with the same number of screws left over (0) as you started with. Developing world, yeah?Anyway,this review at 'Bunnie' Huang's blog(viaO'Reilly Radar) is fascinating for its willingness to turn every screw anticlockwise, and note tiny details such as the battery composition (not just lithium ion, oh no) and the backlight:I decided to fire up the backlight outside the display, and let me tell you, that sucka isbright.Note that thephotoabove wasn't taken in the dark–it's just that the camera shutter had to tighten up so much so that the background looked dark. If I were in the third world, I probably would say screw the laptop, I'm taking the backlight bar out and lighting my home with it!There's much more - with one interesting coda:Interestingly, the OLPC ships with a hardware AES unit. Great for privacy, but presumably this is going to cause some troubles for the US government export controls when it comes to shipping the OLPC to certain third world countries on certain blacklists…I know I had to fill out parts of a somewhat thorny encryption questionnaire for the chumby lawyers as part of preparation for chumby's sale."Chumby" being the laptop, of course - he was doing the "buy one, donate one" (as are we).
It is a favourite image in science fiction: astronauts lying in hibernation capsules on a long voyage into space. Now the computer-controlled bed is here for real, claiming to monitor your sleeping patterns, regulate your temperature and even intervene to stop you snoring.The Starry Night Bed cannot put users in stasis, as in 2001: A Space Odyssey, but it does have a digital 'brain' equipped with movement sensors, internet connectivity and tips on how to improve your sleep. The downside for snorers and their partners is that the bed will not be available until next year and is likely to cost around &pound;25,000.Mark Quinn, an executive at bed manufacturer Leggett &amp; Platt, which demonstrated it at last week's International Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, said: 'If you show me someone whose bedmate is snoring, ask them how much quality of life is worth. Or ask a menopausal woman who's having hot flushes how much it's worth to have a bed where she could cool down.'The Starry Night Bed contains vibration sensors that can monitor the sleeper's breathing. If the breathing stops, a built-in computer can call 999. If it detects snoring, the head of the bed automatically elevates by seven degrees to unblock the sleeper's airways. If the snoring continues, it goes up by a further seven degrees. When the snoring stops, the bed flattens out again.Leggett &amp; Platt said that during tests the method worked successfully on 400 people. Quinn said: 'This is for light and moderate snorers. It's not necessarily going to help heavy-duty snorers who might have bigger issues.'The bed also monitors and records body movements every night. Quinn added: 'If you spike one night with a lot of tossing and turning, we're able to recognise that and give you advice, such as don't eat spicy foods, drink less caffeine and so on.'A thin layer of liquid sealed into  the mattress allows the bed to provide heating or cooling anywhere between 20C and 47C. Built-in ambient lighting switches on if the user goes wandering in the middle of the night.The bed's headboard contains a media centre with 1.5 terabytes of memory, enough to store 400,000 songs or 2,000 hours of video. There are also surround-sound speakers and an LCD-based projector in the headboard that casts a 10ft screen on the wall, projecting films, books or the internet.Delegates to the Las Vegas electronics show - the world's biggest - were also treated to a driverless car negotiating a course by using satellite navigation, cameras and radar, as well as complex software.Another exhibit was the 3DV ZCam, which could remove the problem of losing the TV remote control. Once connected to a PC, the camera in the &pound;50 device can understand basic hand gestures, enabling users to control their TV or play video games with just a wave.
Burnout Paradise PS3Xbox 360Electronic Arts is justly renowned for sticking to its vast fortune-winning annual updates of as many of its franchises as it possibly can. While making sound financial sense, it's a regime that crushes innovation in favour of competence. That Burnout's developer, Criterion, is still inventing new things in the face of such a relentless schedule is a matter for deep respect. Paradise is a game with no load times, invisible barriers or directional arrows telling you where to go. New events are started either from intersections, or wherever you happen to be at the time. Its style of play lurching among all previous releases, from "take downs" to massive crashes where the damage you do is your reward, it's all here, and available constantly in the beauty of Paradise City. The format doesn't work quite as well as its more conventional forebears, but this is still a striking test of the adrenal gland.&middot;Electronic Arts, &pound;49.99GHOST SquadWiiDepending on your disposition, it may come as a disappointment that the GHOST of the title is in fact a lame made-up acronym: Global Humanitarian Operations Special Tactics, rather than referring to anything bustable. And the squad in question is your standard Swat team-style brigade of men with guns in what is the nearest Wii owners can currently get to Virtua Cop or Time Crisis, both of which this could easily be mistaken for. The action, which bounces between gunplay and knife/fist fights with a bit of mine disposal for good measure, feels clumsy by today's standards, with translated dialogue that is at best very silly. For owners of the Wii Zapper, a solid little assembly that turns your Wii-mote into a shooter, this may be a tempting proposition, but is unlikely to trouble other recent Nintendo converts who still have some Super Mario Galaxy to finish off.&middot;Sega, &pound;39.99
While most people use their Xbox Live! account and copy of Halo 3 to get involved in epic, simulated gunfights, 20-year-old American Joshua Stetar used it to develop an unhealthy obsession with a 15-year-old female gamer he met in one of the game's multiplayer bouts. After Googling her and discovering her address and mobile number, he proceeded to send hundreds of text messages and a chain of flowers and gifts (returned by her parents) to the bewildered Halo 3 fan before things turned weirder. When she eventually changed her phone number, Stetar rented a van, driving 40 hours to her home town, where he then sent a text reading, "Tell the cops that I'm gonna rape you and your sister." Her parents followed these instructions and police arrested him in a nearby motel where he confessed to the whole sorry enterprise.
If you're in the market for a brand new Jeep Patriot, then, like as not, a number of other vehicles are also attracting your attention. A tank, for instance. And what a tough call it is. In terms of the build-strength, which you have obviously decided is important to you in a family runabout, the tank narrowly pips the Patriot, being just that little bit less vulnerable to a direct strike from a ground-to-air missile. The tank also offers the slightly superior traction, making it easier to manoeuvre in wet forests, across low walls and into territory that may or may not be occupied at this time by insurgent forces.Then again, the Patriot takes it to the tank in terms of on-board comfort. Carpets, leather and the quality of its switching gear and plastics are more refined than even one of the top-spec, German-made tanks is likely to offer. The Patriot's service intervals and dealership after-care options are that bit more appealing, and it offers marginally better acceleration and mileage. Also, you can hear the stereo more clearly in the Patriot than the tank, especially in full-blown mission conditions. And you can station it under your carport without destroying half your house.So, much to be said on both sides of the equation, then, but with the Patriot probably nudging it as the more sensible option. OK, it isn't the giant twin-barrelled Sherman you've had your heart set on since you were a child. But with age and families come responsibility and compromise, and even with the Patriot, you still end up with a vehicle that screams "military" and makes machine gun noises (sort of).Great name, by the way: "Patriot". And love the way it's stamped in giant letters along the rear bumper, meaning you can really do your bit for homeland security and stick it to the surrender monkeys in their Toyota RAV4s and their Honda CR-Vs. Incidentally, the Patriot's 4x4 system goes under the supremely pro-Bush name "Freedom Drive 1". You're in an American SUV now, soldier, and don't you forget it.Comically enough, this brutally squared-off M*A*S*H-mobile is the baby of the range. If you're really serious about the war on terror, you step up to the Grand Cherokee, or the Commander, which seats seven in full battle fatigues. By comparison, the five-seater Patriot can make a claim to modesty, and Jeep maintains it is as easy to park as a small MPV.I can confirm that they're not kidding. During my time in the Patriot, I saw frontline action in the form of a trip to Heathrow (Operation Plane Catch), at the peak of which I was required to locate and secure a narrow bay in the short-stay car park. This proved to be a straightforward mission, even in the Patriot, and I didn't run over one other car.I should also report that, on the same mission, the younger members of the platoon enjoyed the tinted rear windows which helped them to imagine they were celebrities or on their way to court, or both.The steering is so light, you feel you could pluck the wheel aloft and start waving it around in the cabin. Yet, unlike so many small SUVs that merely pretend to be tough, this one is properly equipped, within limits, to climb mountains and ford streams. It is also surprisingly cheap and commendably - and counter-intuitively - frugal with its fuel. Don't forget, though, that you'll have to house and feed a rear gunner.
While I was otherwise engaged (with British Airways),Amazon announcedthat "DRM-free MP3 music downloads from Sony BMG Music Entertainment will be available to customers on Amazon MP3, Amazon's DRM-free MP3 digital music store where every song is playable on virtually any digital music-capable device". Thepress releasesays:When Sony BMG is added later this month, Amazon MP3 will be the only retailer to offer customers DRM-free MP3s from all four major music labels, as well as over 33,000 independent labels. Amazon MP3 customers will discover DRM-free MP3s from Sony BMG's vast rosters of artists representing virtually every genre of music.In sum, BusinessWeek was right, as I blogged a week ago:Sony BMG also plans to drop DRM, claims BusinessWeekGoing to a DRM-free MP3 format involves some major climbdowns for the proprietary Sony company, which had its own DRM, its own music format, Atrac, and its own online music store, Connect, as well as its own line of Walkman digital music players.The New York Timescoverage of the story points out:Sony's partnership with Amazon.com also underscores the music industry's gathering effort to nurture an online rival to Apple, which has sold more than three billion songs through its iTunes store. Most music purchased on iTunes can be played only on Apple devices, and Apple insists on selling all single tracks for 99 cents. Amazon, which sells tracks for anywhere from 89 cents to over a dollar, offers the pricing variability the labels want."The major music companies feel that Apple's foot is on their necks, and they would like to get it off," said Bill Rosenblatt, president of GiantSteps Media Technology Strategies, a consulting firm. "They are looking to destabilize Apple's dominant share, and they see Amazon as their best shot."Most iTunes songs are still crippled by the use of Apple's proprietary DRM, which means they will only play on Apple music players. The Amazon versions are DRM-free, should sound as good or better, and are generally cheaper, though the files will be larger.Of course, Sony was one of the companies that insisted on DRM in the first place. However, that didn't mean it wanted Apple to prevent Sony songs from playing on Sony music players and Sony Ericsson phones, or that it wanted Apple to dictate the price at which Sony could sell Sony songs.
Microsoft saysthat Jeff Raikes, president of the $16bn Microsoft Business Division (MBD), will retire from the company following a nine-month transition to ensure a smooth transfer of his management of the division.Raikes, 49, joined Microsoft from Apple in 1981, and was the main author of the famous "Gates memo," which suggested Apple license Mac OS to other companies. Iinterviewedhim in 2006.He'll be replaced by Stephen Elop, 44, who is chief operating officer (COO) at Juniper Networks, and was CEO of Macromedia.TheMini-Microsoft blogsaid of Raikes: "of all of our leadership at Raikes level, I respect him the most. There's something more to him (there is something there there) that I admired when around him."At ZD Net, Mary Jo Foley has theinternal emailssent out by Ballmer and Raikes (not, as she says, by "Ballmer and Gates").As Mary Jo also notes,Another of the Microsoft old guard moves on: "Charles Fitzgerald, Microsoft's General Manager of Platform Strategy, is leaving the company to join a startup." She says:While he was mostly a behind-the-scenes strategist, Microsoft trotted out Fitzgerald whenever the company needed to justify a new strategy/product plan or set the big-picture scene for company critics.Fitzgerald takes a few hits in the comments at Mini-Microsoft. One Anonymous says: "Charles Fitzgerald was a grade 'A' asshole. ... he was a classic Microsoft bully in the worst sense. Glad to see him gone." Another says: "he was a pain, but you knew he was right." A third says:Charles's departure is bad for the company. Yeah, he's a jerk and his style is a vestige of the old days. But it truly represents the fact that the old days of Cowboy imperialists getting lots of things done as quickly as possible without any regard for the consequences (in both public opinion and personal aggrandizement) are over. Charles is a move the ball forward kinda guy. He doesn't dilly dally, he doesn't mince words, he simply gets big things done. I respect that a lot more than the politicians who make me feel good.I found him a "cut the crap" kinda guy and thereforegreat. I'm sorry to see him go. However, I'll be watching his personal blog,Platformonomics, to see if he dishes any dirt on Microsoft strategies after he's gone.
Much ink, electronic and atomic, has been expended on the subject of social networking and web 2.0. First, let's decide on how this last is pronounced. "Web two" won't do. "Web two point oh" is common, but I heard it as "web two dot oh" from the lips of Sir Tim Berners-Lee OM himself and since he is the only begetter of the web, I shall take my lead from him, the most influential Briton since... well, he has no rivals. Brian Blessed, perhaps.Web 2.0 was christened, so far as I am aware, by Tim O'Reilly. Oh really? No, sir, O'Reilly. He was one of the early advocates of open source programming, and greatly championed Perl, the language my father speaks fluently but which involves too much brain power and concentration for the likes of me.These days web 2.0 refers both to user-generated content and to social networking sites. Rather than passively searching, browsing and eyeballing the billions of pages of the web, millions now contribute their videos, their journals, their music, their photos, their lives.The Big New ThingSocial networking (Facebook, MySpace, Bebo, etc) has been identified as the Big New Thing. In other words, people who watch My Family have now heard of it and are at last aware of the difference between downloading and uploading. A sure sign, perhaps, that the phenomenon is on the way out. MySpace is already as seriously uncool (and as hideously girlie, pink and spangly) as My Little Pony; Facebook is taking its advantage (openness to having applications written for it) to such extremes that it's in danger of losing the original virtues of elegance, intelligence and simplicity that established it as a classy, upmarket place in which to live a digital life in the first place.I am old enough to remember Prestel and the original bulletin boards and "commercial online services" Prodigy, CompuServe and America Online. These were closed communities. You paid a subscription, dialled in and connected. You made new friends and you chatted in "rooms" designated for the purpose according to special interests, hobbies and propensities. CompuServe and AOL were shockingly late to add what was called an "internet ramp" in the 90s. This allowed those who dialled up to go beyond the confines of the provider's area and explore the strange new world of the internet unsupervised. AOL offered its members a hopeless browser and various front ends that it hoped would keep people loyal to its squeaky-clean, closed world. This lasted through the 90s as it covered the planet in CDs in an attempt to recruit subscribers. A lost cause, naturally, and the company ended up as little more than an ordinary ISP. Made millions for Steve Case on the way as AOL merged with Time Warner, but that's another story.Opening and closing like a flowerMy point is this: what an irony! For what is this much-trumpeted social networking but an escape back into that world of the closed online service of 15 or 20 years ago? Is it part of some deep human instinct that we take an organism as open and wild and free as the internet, and wish then to divide it into citadels, into closed-border republics and independent city states? The systole and diastole of history has us opening and closing like a flower: escaping our fortresses and enclosures into the open fields, and then building hedges, villages and cities in which to imprison ourselves again before repeating the process once more. The internet seems to be following this pattern.How does this help us predict the Next Big Thing? That's what everyone wants to know, if only because they want to make heaps of money from it. In 1999 Douglas Adams said: "Computer people are the last to guess what's coming next. I mean, come on, they're so astonished by the fact that the year 1999 is going to be followed by the year 2000 that it's costing us billions to prepare for it."But let the rise of social networking alert you to the possibility that, even in the futuristic world of the net, the next big thing might just be a return to a made-over old thing.&#183;stephenfry.com/blog
SCi Entertainment, home to Tomb Raider's Lara Croft, admitted yesterday that talks with potential buyers have collapsed and the computer games group will plunge into a loss this year after delaying the release of the pixelated relic hunter's latest adventure.The news, which came after the market had closed yesterday, is a major setback for property entrepreneur Robert Tchenguiz, who owns 15% of the business, as the shares are expected to plunge when trading starts today. SCi has been in discussions with a number of unnamed suitors since September, but admitted last night that it never received a formal offer and has called off talks. Bidders are rumoured to have included China's CDC Corporation and France's Ubisoft.But SCi added yesterday that "as a result of these discussions certain commercial and strategic opportunities have emerged which the company is continuing to explore and progress".The company refused to give further details but is understood to be in talks with its potential suitors about possible partnerships.Last Christmas, for instance, US media group Time Warner picked up a 10% stake in the business for 504p a share as part of a distribution deal. The first games to be released under that agreement - including Looney Tunes and Wacky Races - will be out this year.In a trading update, however, the company said it had delayed the release of four titles, including Tomb Raider: Underworld, by six months to Christmas 2008. "As a result of these changes the board now expects that the company will make an operating loss in 2008," it said.The company had planned to release these four titles for the PC, PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 in June.But it has decided to delay so that it can release the four games across all six major platforms, adding editions for Nintendo's successful Wii console and DS hand-held device as well as the PlayStation 2."The board believes that these simultaneous multi-platform launches in the key buying period optimise the value that these franchises can deliver to the company over the long term," it said.That will come as little comfort, however, to Tchenguiz, who has taken aggressive positions in companies, including J Sainsbury and Mitchells &amp; Butlers, which he believes are undervalued.
MondayNo sign of "ultimate" 360 at CESHuman TetrisTuesdayNovel use of the WiimoteScreen stars of CESCES stuff: Xbox meets BT Vision, plus PSP meets Blu-rayWednesdayPSP comes of ageGames get political: DemocratsGames industry vs journalism: part twoThursdayFIFA 2008 UK's topselling game of 2007Release lullYoda and Vader in Soul Calibur IVCES round-upGames get political: RepublicansFridayFootball Manager 2008 for 360Nicole Kidman's right about Brain Training after allMonkey Island creator gets Deathspank approvalGaming on a Mac
