The new Nokia 9500 Communicator, unveiled at the Cannes 3GSM show this week, has almost everything executives on the move might salivate over. It will link wirelessly with your firm's computer network, enabling anything from emails to spreadsheet and customer relations management to be done remotely from the office. It has Wi-Fi and Bluetooth radio links, Symbian operating system, a camera, triband (for use in the US) and a host of facilities in addition to a phone. Nokia has linked up with IBM to make sure that companies can get all the back-end support they need.When the Blackberry emailer - still a compulsive corporate buy - came out, it sparked imitators dubbed "Kill-Blackberries". None has succeeded in knocking it off its perch, although rival software with "push" email is appearing, and Blackberry technology will be in other phones (such as the Sony Ericsson P900). The question is   whether the Communicator will kill off the laptop as an executive mobile device, since it claims to do most of the things a laptop can, including (wireless) PowerPoint presentations.A brief play with a prototype    revealed it to be another marvel of miniaturisation. Despite sharply increased specifications, it is lighter (220 grams) than earlier   Communicators. Unlike the Blackberry, its clam-shell design opens to show a colour screen and a much more compact (but much less finger-friendly) keyboard than earlier models. If it lives up to its specs, Nokia could have a winner on its hands for those needing to be in permanent sync with the office. However, for anyone just wanting emails and limited web access, the Blackberry may be preferred, as you don't have to open it to read mail.But this is a fast-moving market. RIM, the manufacturer of Blackberry, is not sitting still and Microsoft - with its dominance of operating systems - won't want Nokia moving into its space. This may be one reason why Nokia announced a product that won't be available, for about &euro;800 (&#163;538), in volume until the fourth quarter. It wants people to hang on before hooking up with the competition. A combination of Nokia and IBM is a potentially formidable force.
Starting a business can be a chilling experience. It can be isolated work; you lack a secure income for a period; and your personal life can suffer. It is therefore bewildering to note that some people not only start a business from scratch and watch it succeed, but they push off to start another. And another. And sometimes more.So what makes these serial entrepreneurs tick? A lot depends on motivation. In The E Myth Revisited, Michael Gerber quickly identifies a huge subset of entrepreneurs who fail. Their reasons for starting up are more to do with changing jobs than anything else, and once they're up and running, they fall over quickly. There are a very distinct set of skills involved in starting a business - and not everyone has them.Robert Drew, business angel and business group TEC's chief executive for Europe, Middle East and Africa, points to a number of characteristics the typical start-up junkie is likely to have. The first: "huge self-confidence and a willingness to succeed above all else. They're not too worried about details or the professional procedures within an organisation."This isn't to say entrepreneurs are lax, but if someone is unduly concerned about which form needs to be filled in to requisition paper clips, or the size of their desk and the view from their office window, they're unlikely to have what it takes to start something up from nothing.It's not unusual for someone starting a company to be young, not least because, if they're wise, they'll want to put in their own capital as far as possible to avoid losing control later on to people whose interest is solely financial. That's not to say older people have not succeeded spectacularly - Colonel Sanders of KFC fame was 72 when he began frying chickens."You've got to be willing to risk your own capital and, to an extent, your career," says Drew. "Once you're out of a normal career path and starting up a business, it's hard to get back in."Other prerequisites include a lot of energy and total focus. "It's got to be a pleasure, not an irritation, when a customer calls you with a problem in the dead of night when you're on holiday," he says.Drew, who is responsible for 10 start-up businesses, says entrepreneurialism is vital at the beginning of a business, and it remains so as a business becomes productive. As it progresses, he says, administration becomes more important and at this stage, the classic entrepreneur starts to lose interest.People start looking inward at the business and what value they can gain from exiting, or whether they can score a good company car (or whatever tax-efficient substitute is around at the time). "That's what we call aristocratic decay," Drew says. At the early stages, people drink coffee from plastic cups. By the time the bone china comes out, the company is totally focused on itself and not the customer and invariably the entrepreneur will turn it over to managers."They turn the company around, but that's a different thing to starting up," Drew says. Yet another group come in once the business has been pulled back into shape - the professional managers.So much for the life cycle, but what drives the entrepreneur and why do so many people start again? Janine Hawkins is on her second business, called Body Experience, a health spa in Richmond. She likes to take her own decisions and to be responsible for them, which isn't always possible in big business."Big business was good for me at one stage in my life," Hawkins says, adding that she worked in the financial sector in Australia then started an IT consultancy serving the same sector so that she could say what the business did and what it didn't. "That was in my 30s. I'm now in my 40s and am interested in my lifestyle." And her current business reects this.But not everyone looks to start up a succession of companies. Bob Jones, managing director of Equiinet, is on his fourth business but he didn't set out to work in this way. "It's all been very positive. People come to me and offer me money for my businesses," he says.Unlike a lot of start-up specialists, he's not proprietorial about these things. "I own about 30% of the current company. I'm not one of these people who has a hang-up about owning the majority every time."He agrees there's a view that suggests you can be the wrong person to run a company day to day if you're an entrepreneur. "I suppose I'd have to say I've never been tested in that way, but it's all been very positive."The sort of entrepreneur a person is likely to make does seem to come down to the sort of person they are. "One definition I've seen of work is 'something you do while you'd rather be doing something else'," Drew says. "On that basis, I've never done a day's work in my life."David Abingdon, the brains behind four start-ups including business advisory company the Quantum Organisation (www.quantum.co.uk), of which he is managing director, had a similar realisation when he made work his hobby. Each of his companies has been hitting millions within the first year, but he still felt the need to move on.Abingdon tried to analyse this against his council-at background. He moved to Australia to get away from the limitations he felt he had because of his background, and he concluded that he just enjoys the path he has chosen. "I accomplished something, it went well and I just got bored and moved on," he says.All of this makes rapid-fire business beginners sound easy-going and not very hard-working. Nothing could be further from the truth. Abingdon made himself a list of things he'd like, including a house on a hill, pilot's licence and prestige car - and now he has them all. But there has been a cost. "You can do it all if you're laser-focused and don't listen to the people who say you can't," he says. "But you have to accept that things like holidays, Christmas, weekends and sometimes evenings are for poor people."So a relationship is unlikely to survive, right? Actually not right, says Drew, and after 35 years of happy marriage, he's probably well placed to comment. "Your choice of partner is very important," he says, which is true normally, but even more so when you're dealing with the start-up addict."I've picked up three nationalities on my travels - some partners wouldn't have put up with that," Drew says. "A lot of people like staying put, and it's hard to see how they could if their partner is successful as an entrepreneur. They'll almost inevitably have to spend some time overseas."Once someone has start-ups in the blood, they're unlikely to stop. Jones says that at 57, he's probably done enough, but won't rule out any further new businesses since he didn't plan to start up the first four.Meanwhile, Drew actually tried to retire a few years ago. "I sold my businesses in Australia and did this and that for three years, came back to the UK and bought the boat - then got bored and started again." It's like a drug to him, he says. "I just love making deals."Other elements combine to make every entrepreneur different. Hawkins talks about looking for some sort of perfection. She admits that it's not going to happen, but   derives enormous satisfaction from bringing a business, and particularly its people, to their full potential.Abingdon falls back on the image of work as a hobby. He does keynote speaking and at one seminar asked for a show of hands of people who had hobbies. A selection of hands   went up. "Then I asked them to keep their hands up if they wished they could spend more time on their interests, and a lot of them stayed up. I think if you can turn yourself around and regard your work as the thing you feel passionately about, you'll succeed."Interestingly, Abingdon doesn't see himself starting up again, because Quantum offers him scope to acquire other organisations and get the varied stimulation he'd normally get through moving on. But the company will remain the classic labour of love for as long as he can envisage. "I don't believe I'm getting paid for this," he says.
Do you find it tiresome to fill out those little green cards about your drug convictions, war crimes and hotel address in the States? You know, the ones handed out by the cabin crew a few hours before landing?Well, you've had it easy. The US Department of Homeland Security is about to make transatlantic trips considerably more difficult. The result, they hope, will be fewer cancelled ights, but the administration involved has been described as "ill conceived" and a "mess" by travel industry insiders.The crackdown on US entry has two elements. The first concerns biometric passports. As long as you have a machine-readable passport that does not expire until late 2005, this shouldn't concern you. But if you are issued with a new passport between October 26, 2004 and the autumn of 2005, you will not be able to travel visa-free to the US. That means a hefty fee and an interview at the US embassy.Britain is hoping the plan to introduce biometric passports by mid-2005 will be enough to persuade the US to postpone the October deadline. But don't count on a diplomatic change of heart, because pressure from Washington to introduce biometric passports will make the proposed introduction of a biometric British ID card simpler. The more difficult it is to travel without a biometric identifier, the easier the home secretary will find it to sell the idea to the British public.What will that identifier be? The UK Passport Services (UKPS) says it will be a facial image "derived from a passport photograph". But the new-style passports will also have the ability to store finger prints, iris patterns, or both.Pooling data between departments in this way might be more convenient for the individual, who would only have to be finger-printed, scanned or photographed once, but it is not clear how much of the information available to a British government department could eventually be accessed by a US immigration officer.Britons with a criminal record - and even those who have been arrested but not convicted - are not entitled to enter the US under the visa-waiver scheme (for details visitwww.usembassy.org.uk/cons_web/visa/niv/vwp.htm).The Home Office has been anxious to reassure civil liberties campaigners that departments will not be able to share personal data unless it is absolutely necessary. But another serious terrorist attack on US soil, particularly if it was associated with Britons or a British airline, could alter that.For the time being, the emphasis is on proving your identity. In the US, the Department for Homeland Security (DHS) is piloting a scheme called Capps II on internal Delta ights. It aims to establish a traveller's ID by cross-checking the details they provide with "commercially available information" of the kind a mobile phone company scans before deciding whether to give you a contract.This has provoked outrage in some quarters. One site is urging yers to boycott Delta (www.boycottdelta.org/delta_background.html) while the DHS has responded with a list of "Myths and Facts" about the scheme (www.dhs.gov/dhspublic/display?content=3163).But it is the DHS's determination to collect extra information that poses the biggest administrative challenge for British ticket agents. Airlines are already required to pass on basic information about you to the US authorities - your name, passport number, nationality, sex and date of birth. But soon that list will be extended to include the passport's expiry date, your country of residence, details of any visa you have had to obtain and the address where you plan to stay in the US.Understandably, BA wants to collect as much of this information as possible before check-in. But until travel agents and websites have incorporated the right questions into their booking forms - which, without a ruling from the States, they can't do - the airline is playing safe and asking everyone ying from March onwards to return to the site and fill in a special form."If you book through a travel agent, we're asking the agent to either enter the data via BA.com or to advise the customer to go to BA.com themselves," says a BA spokeswoman. "From our perspective, the key is first of all creating the awareness and then getting people to file online."But BA still faces a challenge in making its website fully compatible with Macs.In the meantime, the best advice for travellers to the States is: check your passport, file any details in advance and check-in even earlier than usual.Traffic on the air waves ...&#183;Easyjet is launching three new routes to central Europe. Stansted-Basel starts March 28, Stansted-Ljubljana a month later and Luton-Budapest on May 1, the date Hungary joins the EU. A fourth route, Luton-Dortmund, starts at the end of May and will depart twice daily.www.easyjet.com&#183;US Airways, which emerged from bankruptcy protection last year, has put some of its assets, including its east coast shuttle service and US Airways Express, up for sale. Southwest (www.southwest.com) has cut fares from its Philadelphia hub, forcing the beleaguered airline to cut costs again.&#183;Continental Airlines will fly from Birmingham to New York twice daily from mid-June. Flight schedules for its British routes can be found atwww.continental.com/uk/). Meanwhile, BMI will codeshare with Air Canada from April 25 on the Manchester-Toronto route (www.flybmi.com).&#183;Duo, the Maersk Air spin-off with hubs in Birmingham and Edinburgh, have lowered fares for online bookings. A typical economy single to a German city costs between &#163;49-&#163;69; if you book a business ticket (typically around &#163;239 for Birmingham-Berlin) a chauffeur will pick you up free from an address within a 30-mile radius.www.duo.com&#183;Two low-cost airlines have run into trouble. Flying Finn grounded flights from Stansted to Helsinki last month and Jet Magic, the Cork-based airline, bit the dust on January 28. The company said it had been unable to sell enough seats on business routes to stay afloat.www.jetmagic.com
"Microsoft Chairman and CEO Bill Gates sat down with PC Magazine Editor-in-Chief Michael J. Miller late last year to set the record straight and talk about some of the bigger issues facing the technology industry"here.Comment: The interview apparently took place at Comdex in November, and Bill Gates isn't Microsoft's CEO. Still, they did spell his name right....
"Rap superstar Eminem, who claims that he could fetch more than $10 million for endorsing a product, is suing Apple Computer on grounds that it used one of his hit songs in a TV advertisement without permission. Eight Mile Style, music publisher of the artist, whose real name is Marshall Mathers III, filed the copyright infringement lawsuit last Friday in U.S. District Court in Detroit. It also names Viacom, its MTV subsidiary and TBWA/Chiat/Day advertising agency as plaintiffs," reportsReuters."At no time did Apple, Chiat/Day or MTV receive authorization or permission to record, reproduce, perform, transmit, copy, use or otherwise exploit the composition ("Lose Yourself") for any purpose," it says."Defendants have acted intentionally, recklessly, willfully and in bad faith," it adds.
Forbes.com is running a story on"The Coming RSS Revolution, tipping 2004 to be the year RSS goes mainstream. That's quite interesting, given the apparent ambitions of the people behindAtom...
The GSM Association, which represents more than 600 mobile phone operators and 130 equipment manufacturers worldwide, last night presented a prestigious award to the head of China Mobile at the 3GSM world congress, taking place in Cannes.Presentation of the 2004 chairman's award to Zhang Li Gui, the president of the Chinese state-owned operator, is being seen by some at the event as a highly political move.Although the award shows that the GSM Association has accepted its need to strengthen ties with the largest mobile market in the world, one executive at the ceremony described it as "a pure piece of political power playing"."This award is more about the contracts that some of the association's members are hoping to get out of China," the executive, who did not wish to be named, said.Presenting the award, Craig Ehrlich, the GSM Association's chairman, said: "President Zhang Li Gui and China Mobile are most deserving of this year's award for their leadership in the global mobile communications industry and for an astonishing contribution to the achievement of 1bn global GSM customers."Speaking after the presentation, the association's chief executive, Rob Conway, denied that there had been any political motives behind the award.Mr Conway said that China Mobile, in which Vodafone has a stake of just under 10%, has been an association member for a decade.However, he admitted that the Chinese market was crucial to the continuing growth in mobile communications.This week, the association has been celebrating the achievement of 1bn customers using GSM technology worldwide, and all eyes are now on where future growth can be found. "That next billion are going to come from countries like India and China," Mr Conway pointed out.Earlier in the day, he had updated delegates about the association's progress over the past year, setting out the challenges for this year in a keynote speech.He highlighted growing concerns within the industry that mobile phone handsets and networks could fall foul of the hackers and virus writers plaguing the internet.Ironically, it today emerged that a virus infected the congress's main computer network, causing crashes and confusion. It appeared that a worm had been introduced into the network when a delegate connected his laptop to the system to access his email.
"The two Silicon Valley companies announced support of DomainKeys, a proposed system for verifying the identity of an e-mail sender and reducing e-mail forgeries," reportsCNet."In a separate announcement, Sendmail said Tuesday that it will back Microsoft's system for identifying the origin of e-mail, an initiative called "caller ID for e-mail" that aims to cut down on fraud. Sendmail will develop software tools for Microsoft's program as plug-ins for its open-source and commercial software."
Vodafone chief executive Arun Sarin yesterday refused to rule out a bid for the whole of Vivendi Universal in an effort to wrest control of French mobile phone company SFR from the media conglomerate."All I would say is that we will work with Vivendi Universal's management to find the right outcome in time, at the right price for our interest in SFR," he said at the 3GSM world congress in Cannes.Vodafone has made no secret of its desire to secure full ownership of C&#233;g&#233;tel, the communications group that controls SFR. Just over a year ago, Vivendi Universal trumped a bid from the British mobile phone group for the business. But Mr Sarin's comments appear to have reversed the approach adopted by his predecessor, Sir Christopher Gent, who was cool about an all-out attack on Vivendi Universal.Yesterday Mr Sarin reiterated that Vodafone was the "logical" buyer for SFR as Vivendi Universal goes through its prolonged period of restructuring. "SFR will become a full member of the Vodafone group in time," he said.Mr Sarin did state categorically that he had no intention of seeking to take over Verizon Communications, its joint venture partner on the other side of the Atlantic. Since Vodafone was frustrated in its attempt to buy AT&amp;T Wireless last week by a last minute $41bn (&#163;22bn) bid from rival Cingular, there has been intense speculation that the company could bid for the whole of Verizon. A bid for Verizon Com munications would top $120bn, however, and land Vodafone with an extensive fixed-line network in the US."We are not looking at that strategy," Mr Sarin said. "&#91;A deal&#93; is not realistic in the near to medium term simply because the landline business is very large."During the auction process for AT&amp;T Wireless, Vodafone came in for criticism for leaving shareholders in the dark. Mr Sarin was unrepentant yesterday. He said the bid the company had been putting together was highly complex and the negotiations so fluid that it was impossible to   keep shareholders in the loop.Under the terms of the deal that Vodafone tabled, it would have picked up Verizon's minority stake in Vodafone Italy. Mr Sarin said that the company has made several approaches to Verizon to buy out the business and did not rule out doing so again. He also reiterated his commitment to Verizon Wireless, in which the company has a 45% stake.He said Verizon Wireless was planning new products and services that should secure its leadership position in the US market.
"The Charles Stark Draper Prize, a $500,000 annual award presented by the National Academy of Engineering, was given to Alan C. Kay, Butler W. Lampson, Robert W. Taylor and Charles P. Thacker for the technological achievement of their research," reportsThe Washington Times."At the beginning of the 1970s, the four engineers from the Xerox Palo Alto Research Center worked on the Alto personal computer, one of the first practical networked personal computers, which became operational in 1973. The desktop Alto had a three-button mouse, disk drives, and a graphic user interface that included menus and icons, making it the first model of the personal computers now used by millions around the world."Alto completely changed the computer culture, said Mr. Kay, one of the designers of the Alto software and currently senior fellow at Hewlett Packard Labs."
Cyber-crime cost the UK billions of pounds last year, according to Britain's top internet policeman.Of 201 companies questioned by the National Hi-Tech Crime Unit (NHTCU), 83%, or 167 firms, said they had suffered some sort of computer crime in the past year, costing them &#163;195m, with 62% losing a total of &#163;121m to internet fraud.Detective chief superintendent Len Hynds, head of the NHTCU, said: "This research shows that some companies are suffering multi-million pound losses as a result of hi-tech crime. While it is too early to put an accurate figure on the total financial impact for UK business, all the indicators suggest we are talking about billions rather than millions."Of 44 financial services businesses polled, three alone racked up &#163;60m fraud losses between them. Virus attacks were experienced by 77%, costing them &#163;27.8m, and 17% lost &#163;23m to criminal use of the internet, mostly by employees, who sabotaged data and networks. Some 11% had data stolen and 15% had had spoofs made of their corporate websites.Although only 24% of firms surveyed reported cyber-crime to the police - many fear adverse publicity - Dt Ch Supt Hynds claimed attitudes were changing but stressed sharing information was the only way to help internet detectives.Dt Ch Supt Hynds, speaking at a hi-tech crime conference in London yesterday, also called for government and business to help police clean up the internet. "For the internet to take the final step to adulthood it must first deal with those fringe elements that choose to promote abhorrent activities like cannibalism and necrophilia," he said."There is patently no place for such material on our televisions, or in our high street stores, so why do we tolerate it online?"His call came just weeks after Graham Coutts was jailed for life for the murder of Brighton teacher Jane Longhurst, whom he strangled after spending hours viewing necrophilia and violent sex websites.
I was pointed towardsthisessay today, which asks the question: can corporations and blogging co-exist?The essay was sparked bythe LA Times(see comments) Gannett, the large newspaper owner, launching ablog. And the essay's premise seems, to me, to be rather odd. Three thoughts sprang to mind. First, whycan'tbig corporations launch blogs? The author says the weblog world's customs "exclude corporate involvement" and the big corp's involvement "soils" the blog community with money. It's as if the blog "community" - such as it exists - can't just turn its collective back on the corporate blog if it wants to, and carry on as before.Second: what's the difference between this weblog, orDan Gillmor'sweblog, and the corporate blog the author's complaining about? When you read comments like "There is a conflict of interest between the open nature of the blog format and the restraints of corporate image and sponsorship" it seems that, just as journalists can misunderstand bloggers, so some bloggers can completely fail to understand how journalists work. And they also fail to understand that (amateur) bloggers could quite easily bemorevulnerable to the commercial pressures they perceive to be driving some mainstream journalism.Third: I don't see why journalistscan'tbe as excited by the supposed authenticity of the blogger's voice as much as the new form of journalism that is springing from weblogs. Seems to me that weblogging is the first distinct form of journalism born of the web, and so it's bound to attract interest from the people who do it for a living. Maybe they'll even make a contribution to its evolution.Are we to exclude professional journalists, and large publishing operations, from experimenting with this new form of journalism, and the conversations this form of journalism creates? Is blogging something that, at its heart, is irredeemably amateur?
People in Britain are spending so much time with their computers that they have developed a personal attachment to them, according to research published today.The research shows that the days when workers dreaded the thought of spending a day in front of their terminal have gone.Many now pine for their PC when they have to switch it off, while others experience even stronger emotions.The survey, which was carried out by pollsters MORI, found that 28% of adult users and 60% of children were extremely fond of their computer.One in three adults and 44% of youngsters even went so far as to class their machine as a "trusted friend", while 16% of adults and 13% of 11 to 16-year-olds said: "I often talk to my computer."Spending time on a computer often made 8% of adults and 17% of children happier than if they had been with a partner or friend.Many were convinced that the emotional attachment to laptops or terminals would grow stronger.Thirty-seven per cent of children and 34% of adults among the 2,500 people surveyed thought that, by 2020, computers would be as important to people as family and friends.Professor Cary Cooper, an expert in organisational psychology and health at Lancaster university, said he believed that people had a form of "technological umbilical cord" to computers."That a form of bonding occurs for both children and adults highlights the significance of this technology in our daily lives," he said.Catherine Stewart, the community manager at supermarket chain Tesco - which commissioned the survey to coincide with its latest computers for schools programme - said: "Interactive items are now increasingly popular for both adults and children, which could be a reason why computers seem to be developing personalities of their own."The survey was conducted among 1,939 adults and 592 children aged 11 to 16 across the UK in December last year.
France T&#233;l&#233;com yesterday announced a &euro;3.9bn (&#163;2.6bn) offer to buyout the minority shareholders in its internet arm Wanadoo, prompting speculation that the move could force Germany's Deutsche Telekom to follow suit.Shares in Wanadoo leapt almost 15% in response to the offer while those in its German counterpart T-Online rose more than 5%.France T&#233;l&#233;com is offering Wanadoo shareholders cash or shares or a mixture of the two - although the amount of France T&#233;l&#233;com paper on offer is limited in order to maintain the French government's stake in the telecoms group above the 50% level.Wanadoo shareholders include British retailer Dixons, which has just under 3% -although it has borrowed against the stake through an exchangeable bond issue that matures later this year. Dixons said it would make a decision on the offer "in the best interests of the bondholders".France T&#233;l&#233;com will recoup part of the proceeds of the offer for Wanadoo by floating between 30% and 49% of its phone directories business later this year. The directories operation is estimated to be worth approaching &euro;4bn - including a &euro;200m cash pile.The offer price is 26% above the average Wanadoo share price over the past three months and represents a 17% premium to the closing price last Friday. "In the long term this will become the fashion for the big telcos to consider more closely consolidating their internet units," said internet analyst Ilaria Magagnoli at Credit Suisse First Boston.Meanwhile at the 3GSM World Congress in Cannes yesterday France T&#233;l&#233;com's mobile phone operation Orange announced it is launching commercial trials of its long-awaited high-speed, 3G service in Britain and France this month. Management refused to be drawn on when consumers will see a full launch, merely reiterating their commitment to bring a full service to market in the second half of the year.Orange is hoping to have 3G technology installed in at least 20 French cities and available to 60% of the UK population by the end of this year. By 2009 Orange believes its 3G service will be available to 90% of the population of both countries.Alongside the video calling and video messaging services that 3 pioneered, Orange hopes to offer video chat services and also store customers' video diaries when it launches a full service later this year.Orange's chairman and head of France T&#233;l&#233;com, Thierry Breton, admitted that there had been some mistakes made in the past, but 3G is now close to being ready."2004 is clearly the broadband year for our entire industry and particularly for the wireless industry," he said "There has been a certain amount of excess expectation generated about broadband. The promises made four to five years ago were made too early."
Millions of Britons think their relationship with a computer is becoming more important than time spent with the family, according to a Mori poll showing 39% of adult PC users would "feel lost" without their machines.The poll found people have started reacting to the computer as if it had a personality. One in seven PC users claimed to "often talk" to their computer and two in five "feel extremely fond" of the equipment. About 30% consider the PC to be "like a friend".But more than a quarter of users feel their computer is "trying to make life difficult".It appears the relationship is set to deepen. Already 18% of child PC users over 11 and nearly 10% of adults say they sometimes enjoy spending time with their computer more than with friends.Nearly a quarter of the sample said PCs would be as important to people as family and friends by 2020.The research, based on interviews with a representative sample of nearly 2,000 adults and 592 children, was commissioned by Tesco as part of its Computers for Schools programme.The company billed it as the first investigation of the social phenomenon of people reacting to computers as if   they had personalities.Cary Cooper, professor of organisational psychology at Lancaster University, said the research identified a "technological umbilical cord" between people and their computers.
Orange is to launch its 3G service in the UK and France later this year,writes Richard Wrayfrom the 3GSM conference in Cannes. And they're going to use video weblogs to sell it."Online diaries - otherwise known as weblogs - have been a roaring success on the internet and today mobile phone company Orange unveiled plans to offer customers of its soon to be launched 3G service the ability to file the next generation of blogs - video diaries."It's very interesting that Orange, a pretty savvy consumer brand, has decided to use weblogs as a way to sell the benefits of 3G. To me, it sounds like a great idea.Let's just hope Orange also sees the sense of offering full, unfettered access to the internet, unlike Three. That'll cap a launch which, at first glance, appears to be much more clued-up than anything its rival has managed thus far. If you missed it, Ashley Norris'scolumnfrom the weekend, on the the trouble with Three, is well worth a read.
The founder of a UK-based website which links sperm donors with potential parents today launched a new venture involving human eggs.The entrepreneur behind them is John Gonzalez, who set up the sperm donor site ManNotIncluded.com in June 2002, which has so far resulted in six births.Now Mr Gonzalez, 41, a former City head-hunter, has unveiled a site to help supply eggs, inevitably named WomanNotIncluded.com.After introducing the sperm site he was cast as an unlikely crusader for gay rights because it was aimed at helping lesbians and single women conceive, as well as heterosexual couples.But the site also drew a furious response from family campaigners, some religious groups and ethical medical watchdogs and he was accused of putting mothers and babies at risk of diseases including HIV - accusations he denied.Similar to the sperm site, his new venture seeks infertile women looking for an egg donor to pay a subscription fee and then pay extra for each search of the database and the introductions they receive.Arrangements are then made for the woman to anonymously donate her eggs at a fertility clinic where screening, IVF and implantation take place, all at extra cost to the recipient.The database is global, meaning a couple wishing to use a donor from another country could buy the eggs without the same limits on expense costs.   Mr Gonzalez said would-be recipients paid a subscription fee of £145 and could pay between £600 and £1,200 for each matching with a donor.For the launch around 40 donors have signed up, mostly from the UK but also   in Italy and France.The donor receives expenses, but in the UK they are not allowed to be paid directly for their eggs under the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority (HFEA) regulations.A spokeswoman for the HFEA said while recipients were not allowed to pay for eggs, minimal expenses could be paid to donors. These cover travel expenses, accommodation and childminding costs. They are also allowed to pay up to £50 a day in "financial loss allowance".The spokeswoman said the expenses were low because egg donation should be altruistic and not done purely for financial gain. Mr Gonzalez says his donors supply details about their health history, ethnic origin and hair and eye colour, and can also include information about their academic achievements.Criticism of the sperm site focused on fears of disease. As it involved fresh rather than frozen sperm, some argued this meant that it would not last long enough to take into account the three-month incubation period for HIV.After the launch of the sperm site, Patrick Cusworth, of anti-abortion charity Life, told the Sun newspaper: "This is a grubby little process that demeans all concerned."However Mr Gonzalez insists that all his donors are properly and regularly tested and defended the service his sites offered, saying they were committed to helping all women, regardless of age, sexuality or marital status.The businessman, who is based in Harley Street, central London, said: "Although there are a few self-help groups set up on the internet to help people looking for egg donors these are fragmented. We believe this is the world's first comprehensive online provider of human eggs."With ManNotIncluded we started off with very few donors and recipients but now there are more than 9,000 sperm donors registered."
Computer hackers are trying to blackmail internet bookmakers by threatening to disrupt online betting ahead of the Grand National, the National Hi-Tech Crime Unit (NHTCU) said today.It emerged that the unit is investigating an alleged plot by hackers - believed to be criminal gangs in Eastern Europe - threatening to paralyse bookmakers' websites before the race unless their financial demands are met.The NHTCU believes the gangs plan to mount a co-ordinated electronic attack, flooding the targeted website with requests for information and making it inaccessible for anyone to place a bet.If successfully carried out, the attacks could cost bookmakers hundreds of thousands of pounds in lost business.Threats have been made via email, demanding around £20,000 to £30,000, the equivalent of around an hour's business for many internet bookmakers.The gangs are also understood to be threatening to disrupt online betting ahead of other major sporting events, including the Euro 2004 football tournament. 
 
"We are aware of it and we are investigating," a spokeswoman for the NHTCU said today. "We know that specific sporting events are being targeted. This could well include the Grand National and Euro 2004."The NHTCU began investigating the threats when attacks on UK sites were reported last autumn, but the spokeswoman said that it had known of attacks as far back as two years ago.The hackers use what is known as a distributed denial of service attack, where target websites are deluged with requests for information, paralysing them for 24 hours.Attacks can slow sites down to such an extent that users are effectively unable to place bets.It is understood that hackers threatened offshore websites used by US gamblers before last month's Super Bowl.The tactic has spread to the UK as the online betting industry has grown, with more and more websites having started up over the last two years.The NHTCU was established in 2000 by the former home secretary, Jack Straw, as part of a national high-tech crime strategy aimed at reducing significant gaps identified in the police's ability to fight this type of crime.
It turns out women spent more on tech last year than men in the US, according to interesting new figures from the Consumer Electronics Associationquotedby MSNBC (viaGamegirladvance). Women handed over $55 billion of the $96 billion spent in US electronics shops last year, but still found their shopping experience pretty poor."...Electronics stores have been slow to catch on. Nearly three-quarters of women surveyed by the industry group complained about being ignored, patronized or offended by sales people when shopping for electronics. Forty percent of the women said they were treated better when accompanied by a man. And more than half said advertisements for electronics were confusing — though half the men surveyed felt the same way."There are some pretty grim accounts in the story of clear sexism in tech shops, although it does look like what this report is confirming is that the electronics store experience is appalling forus all- perhaps just for (slightly) different reasons.
Telecoms group BT announced today that it had won a £18m deal to install up to 180 of its new internet kiosks at Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted airports - the largest contract of its kind so far won by its payphones division.BT is to replace about a third of the existing payphones at the airports with the web-enabled machines. It will also continue to manage the airports' remaining 350 basic payphones as part of the five-year deal with airport operator BAA.The group has been following a programme of replacing standard payphones around the UK with new internet kiosks that allow people to surf the internet and send emails and text messages as well as to make calls.It currently has about 1,500 of the kiosks and expects to have 20,000 within the next five years.   The company plans to cut the number of basic payphones around the UK by about 30,000 to about 100,000 in the next two years.A BT spokesman said the company will still have about 23,000 more payphones at the end of that programme than it had when the company was privatised in 1984. "There is still very much a future for payphones," he said.Paul Hendron, director of BT Payphones, called today's deal with BAA - which runs seven UK airports - "a pivotal win"."These airports are prime sites with a total of more than 112 million passengers passing through them each year," he added. "It demonstrates the massive potential for BT internet kiosks."
For a virus author, a successful worm brings the sort of fame that a daring graffiti artist used to produce: the author's name automatically replicating itself in cyberspace. When anti-   virus companies post on their websites a new 'alert' warning of a fresh menace, the thrill for the author is like getting a great book review: something to crow about and email around to your friends. Writing malware, as one author emailed me, is like creating artificial life. A virus, he wrote, is 'a humble little creature with only the intention to avoid extinction and survive'.Quite apart from the intellectual fun of programming, though, the virus scene is attractive partly because it's very social. When Philet0ast3r drops by a virus-writers' chat channel late at night after work, the conversation is as likely to be about music, politics or girls as the latest in worm technology. Very occasionally, malware authors even meet for a party; when I visited Mario, we met another Austrian virus writer and discussed code for hours at a bar.The virus community attracts a lot of smart but alienated young men, libertarian types who are often flummoxed by the social nuances of life. While the virus scene isn't dominated by those characters, it certainly has its share and they are often the ones with a genuine chip on their shoulder.'I am a social reject,' admitted Vorgon, as he called himself, a virus writer in Toronto with whom I exchanged messages one night in an online chat channel. He studied computer science in college but couldn't find a computer job after sending out 400 CVs. With 'no friends, not much family' and no girlfriend for years, he became depressed. He attempted suicide, he said, by walking out one freezing winter night into a nearby forest for five hours with no jacket on. But then he got into the virus-writing scene and found a community.'I met a lot of cool people who were interested in what I did,' he wrote. 'They made me feel good again.' He called his first virus FirstBorn to celebrate his new identity. Later, he saw that one of his worms had been written up as an alert on an anti-virus site and it thrilled him. 'Kinda like when I got my first girlfriend,' he wrote. 'I was god for a couple days.'Vorgon is still angry about life. His next worm, he wrote, will try to specifically target the people who wouldn't hire him. It will have a 'spidering' engine that crawls web-page links, trying to find likely email addresses for human-resource managers, 'like careers@microsoft.com, for example'. Then it will send them a fake CV infected with the worm. (He hasn't yet decided on a payload and he hasn't ruled out a destructive one.) 'This is a revenge worm,' he explained, 'for not hiring me, and hiring some loser who is not even half the programmer I am.'Many people might wonder why virus writers aren't rounded up and arrested for producing their creations. But in most countries, writing viruses is not illegal. Indeed, in America some legal scholars argue that it is protected as free speech. Software is a type of language and writing a program is akin to writing a recipe. It is merely a bunch of instructions for the computer to follow, in the same way that a recipe is a set of instructions for a cook to follow.A virus or worm becomes illegal only when it is activated, when someone sends it to a victim and starts it spreading in the wild, and it does measurable damage to computer systems. The top malware authors are acutely aware of this distinction. Most virus-writer websites include a disclaimer stating that they exist purely for educational purposes, and that if a visitor downloads a virus to spread, the responsibility is entirely the visitor's.One of the youngest virus writers I visited was Stephen Mathieson, a 16-year-old in Detroit whose screen name is Kefi. He also belongs to Philet0ast3r's Ready Rangers Liberation Front. A year ago, Mathieson became annoyed when he found members of another virus-writers group called Catfish-VX plagiarising his code. So he wrote Evion, a worm specifically designed to taunt the Catfish guys. He put it up on his website for everyone to see. Like most of Mathieson's work, the worm had no destructive intent. It merely popped up a few cocky messages, including Catfish-VX are lamers. This virus was constructed for them to steal. Someone did steal it, because pretty soon Mathieson heard reports of it being spotted in the wild. To this day, he does not know who circulated Evion, but he suspects it was probably a random troublemaker, a script kiddie who swiped it from his site. 'The kids,' he said, shaking his head, 'just cut and paste.'Quite aside from the strangeness of listening to a 16-year-old complain about 'the kids', Mathieson's rhetoric glosses over a charged ethical and legal debate. It is tempting to wonder if the leading malware authors are lying, whether they do in fact circulate their worms on the sly, obsessed with a desire to see if they really work. While security officials say that may occasionally happen, they also say the top virus writers are quite likely telling the truth.'If you're writing important virus code, you're probably well trained,' says David Perry, global director of education for Trend Micro, an anti-virus company. 'You know a number of tricks to write good code, but you don't want to go to prison. You have an income and stuff. It takes someone unaware of the consequences to release a virus.'But worm authors are hardly absolved of blame. By putting their code freely on the web, virus writers essentially dangle temptation in front of every disgruntled teenager who goes online looking for a way to rebel. A cynic might say that malware authors rely on clueless script kiddies the same way that a drug dealer uses 13-year-olds to carry illegal goods, passing the liability off to a hapless mule.Some academics have pondered whether virus authors could be charged under conspiracy laws. Creating a virus, they theorise, might be considered a form of abetting a crime by providing materials. Ken Dunham, the head of 'malicious code intelligence' for iDefense, a computer security company, notes that there are certainly many examples of virus authors assisting newcomers. He has been in chat- rooms, he says, 'where I can see people saying, "How can I find vulnerable hosts?"And another guy says, "Oh, go here, you can use this tool." They're helping each other out'.There are virus writers who appreciate these complexities, but they are certain that the viruses they write count as protected speech. They insist they have a right to explore their interests. Indeed, a number of them say they are making the world a better place, because they openly expose the weaknesses of computer systems. When Philet0ast3r or Mario or Mathieson finishes a new virus, they say, they will immediately email a copy of it to anti-virus companies. That way, they explained, the companies can program their software to recognise and delete the virus should some script kiddie ever release it into the wild. This is further proof that they mean no harm with their hobby, as Mathieson pointed out. On the contrary, he said, their virus writing strengthens the 'immune system' of the internet.These moral nuances fall apart in the case of virus authors who are themselves willing to release worms into the wild. They're more rare, for obvious reasons. Usually, they are in countries where the police are less concerned with software crimes. One such author is Melhacker, a young man who reportedly lives in Malaysia and has expressed sympathy for Osama bin Laden. Anti-virus companies have linked him to the development of several worms, including one that claims to come from the 'al-Qaeda network'. Before the Iraq war, he told a computer magazine that he would release a virulent worm if the United States attacked Iraq, a threat that proved hollow. When I emailed him, he described his favourite type of worm payload: 'Stolen information from other people.' He won't say which of his viruses he has spread and refuses to comment on his connection to the al-Qaeda worm. But in December on Indovirus.net, a discussion board for virus writers, Melhacker urged other writers to 'try to make it in the wild' and to release their viruses in cybercafes, presumably to avoid detection. He also    told them to stop sending in their work to anti-virus companies.Mathieson wrote a critical response, arguing that a good virus writer should not need to spread his work. Virus authors are, in fact, sometimes quite aggrieved when someone puts a dangerous worm into circulation, because it can cause a backlash that hurts the entire virus community. When the Melissa virus raged out of control in 1999, many internet service providers shut down the websites of malware creators. Virus writers stormed online to pillory the Melissa author for turning his creation loose. 'We don't need any more grief,' one wrote.If you ask cyberpolice and security experts about their greatest fears, they are not the traditional virus writers, like Mario or Philet0ast3r. For better or worse, those authors are a known quantity. What keeps anti-virus people awake at night these days is an entirely new threat: worms created for explicit criminal purposes.These began to emerge last year. Sobig in particular alarmed virus researchers. It was released six separate times throughout 2003, and each time the worm was programmed to shut itself off permanently after a few days or weeks. Every time the worm appeared anew, it had been altered in a way that suggested a single author had been tinkering with it, observing its    behaviour in the wild, then killing off his creation to prepare a new and more insidious version. 'It was a set of very well-controlled experiments,' says Mikko Hypponen, the director of anti-virus research at F-Secure, a computer security company. 'The code is high quality. It's been tested well. It really works in the real world.'By the time the latest variant, Sobig.F, appeared in August, the worm was programmed to install a back door that would allow the author to assume control of the victim's computer. To what purpose? Experts say its author has used the captured machines to send spam and might also be stealing financial information from the victims' computers.No one knows who wrote Sobig. The writers of this new class of worm leave none of the traces of their identities that malware authors traditionally include in their code, like their screen names or 'greetz', shout-out hellos to their cyberfriends. Because criminal authors actively spread their creations, they are cautious about tipping their hand. 'The FBI is out for the Sobig guy with both claws, and they want to make an example of him,' David Perry notes. 'He's not going to mouth off.Dunham of iDefense says his online research has turned up 'anecdotal evidence' that the Sobig author comes from Russia or elsewhere in Europe. Others suspect China or other parts of Asia. It seems unlikely that Sobig came    from the US, because American police forces have been the most proactive of any worldwide in hunting those who spread malware. Many experts believe the Sobig author will release a new variant sometime this year.Sobig was not alone. A variant of the Mimail worm, which appeared last spring, would install a fake pop-up screen on a computer pretending to be from PayPal, an online e-commerce firm. It would claim that PayPal had lost the victim's credit card or banking details and ask him to type them in again. When he did, the worm would forward the information to the worm's still-unknown author. Another worm, called Bugbear.B, was programmed to employ sophisticated password-guessing strategies at banks to steal personal information. 'It was specifically designed to target financial institutions,' said Vincent Weafer, senior director of Symantec.The era of the stealth worm is upon us. None of these pieces of malware was destructive or designed to cripple the internet with too much traffic. On the contrary, they were designed to be unobtrusive, the better to secretly harvest data. Five years ago, the    biggest danger was the 'Chernobyl' virus, which deleted your hard drive. But the prevalence of hard-drive-destroying viruses has steadily declined to almost zero. Malware authors have learned a lesson that biologists have long known: the best way for a virus to spread is to ensure its host remains alive.'It's like comparing Ebola to Aids,' says Joe Wells, a founder of WildList, a long-established virus-tracking group. 'They both do the same thing. Except one does it in three days and the other lingers and lingers. But which is worse? The ones that linger are the ones that spread the most.' The long years of experimentation have served as a sort of Darwinian evolutionary contest, in which virus writers have gradually worked out the best strategies for survival.Given the pace of virus development, we are probably going to see even nastier criminal attacks in the future. Some academics have predicted the rise of 'cryptoviruses', malware that invades your computer and encrypts all your files, making them unreadable. 'The only way to get the data back will be to pay a ransom,' says Stuart    Schechter, a doctoral candidate in computer security at Harvard.This new age of criminal viruses puts traditional malware authors in a politically precarious spot. Police forces are under more pressure than ever to take any worm seriously, regardless of the motivations of the author.A young Spaniard named Antonio discovered that last year. He is a quiet 23-year-old computer professional who lives near Madrid. Last August, he read about the Blaster worm and how it exploited a Microsoft flaw. He became intrigued and after poking around on a few virus sites, found some sample code that worked the same way. He downloaded it and began tinkering to see how it worked.Then on 14 November, as he left to go to work, Spanish police met him at his door. They told him the anti-virus company Panda Software had discovered his worm had spread to 120,000 computers. When Panda analysed the worm code, it quickly discovered that the program pointed to a site Antonio had developed. Panda forwarded the information to the police, who hunted Antonio down via his internet service provider. The police stripped his house of every computer and threw Antonio in jail. After two days, they let him out, upon which his employer fired him. 'I have very little money,' he said when I met him. 'If I don't have a job in a little time, in a few months I can't pay the rent. I will have to go to my parents.'The Spanish court is currently considering what charges to press. Antonio's lawyer, Javier Maestre, argued that the worm had no dangerous payload and did no damage to any of the computers it infected. He suspects Antonio is being targeted by the police, who want to pretend they've made an important cyberbust, and by an antivirus company seeking publicity.Artificial life can spin out of control, and when it does, it can take real life with it. Antonio says he did not actually intend to release his worm at all. The worm spreads by scanning computers for the Blaster vulnerability, then sending a copy of itself to any open target. Antonio maintains he thought he was playing it safe, because his computer was not directly connected to the internet. His roommate's computer had the internet connection, and a local network, a set of cables connecting their computers together, allowed Antonio to share the signal.But what Antonio didn't realise, he says, was that his worm would regard his friend's computer as a foreign target. It spawned a copy of itself in his friend's machine. From there, it leapfrogged on to the internet - and out into the wild. His creation had come to life and, like Frankenstein's monster, decided upon a path of its own.&#169; New York TimesHave your say: Virus writers - artists or vandals?
The annual ISP Awards were held at a formal dinner in London on Thursday night, and I joined staff from Web User as a guest of Telewest Broadband. It was a pleasant evening: the company was entertaining, the food was outstanding (by mass catering standards), and the awards were less boring than they might have been. Telewest won a prize for Blueyonder (Best Unmetered Dialup), which always cheers up a dinner table. Freeserve took the award for Best National Consumer ISP and, interestingly, Bulldog Communications won Best Consumer Broadband.I am, coincidentally, a long-standing Blueyonder home user, and I've found the service extremely good. However, Telewest has just put the "surfunlimited" price up to 14 quid a month, so it's not the cheapest dial-up available. Talking to Chad Raube, Telewest's director of Internet, I also discovered that the Telewest digital set-top box I have at home already includes a cable modem, should I have the urge to upgrade to its broadband service. It's somewhat ironical that while millions of people can't get broadband, hundreds of thousands of Telewest subscribers already have the capability installed, and don't realise it.
"Samantha Lewis, president of Digital Playground, a DVD company in California that produces pornographic films for women and couples, estimated that women account for 40% of retail sales of Digital's movies, double what it was just two years ago. At trade shows, she said, half the fans are women, compared to maybe 10% five years ago. "Women are fueling the growth," Ms. Lewis, 42, said."While women have long been involved in the sex industry as providers and consumers, their participation now has become more of an economic phenomenon, largely because of the Internet. In fact, experts say, the Internet has been a major factor in unleashing women's interest in all things sexual. Surveys by Nielsen/NetRatings, which measures Internet audiences, have found that women account for more than a quarter of all visitors to sites with adult content, with more than 10 million women logging on to such sites in December alone," reportsThe New York Times[free reg req'd]."ComScore Media Metrix, an Internet research firm, has found even higher female demand for adult sites — 42% of all visitors in January — with the highest rates among women ages 18 to 34."
"People reading comments on Net discussion boards would be wise to make an assumption. If they aren't absolutely sure where the posting is coming from, they should question its veracity. Maybe it's true, but maybe not. Comments can be entertaining, even educational, but caution is essential in evaluating their worth," writes Mercury columnistDan Gillmor."My suggestion: Post comments, but include a link to your own blog or other kind of Web site. I may not agree with what you say. But if you join the growing cadre of people who stand behind their words, I'll respect you more."
Mario stubs out his cigarette and sits down at the desk in his bedroom. He pops into his laptop the CD of Iron Maiden's  Number of the Beast, his latest favourite album. 'I really like it,' he says. 'My girlfriend bought it for me.' He gestures to the 15-year-old girl with straight dark hair lounging on his bed and she throws back a shy smile. Mario, 16, is a secondary-school student in a small town in the foothills of southern Austria. (He didn't want me to use his last name.) His shiny shoulder-length hair covers half his face and his sleepy green eyes, making him look like a very young, languid Mick Jagger. On his wall, he has an enormous poster of Anna Kournikova which, he admits sheepishly, his girlfriend is not thrilled about. Downstairs, his mother is cleaning up after dinner. She isn't thrilled these days, either. But what bothers her isn't Mario's poster. It's his hobby.When Mario is bored, he likes to sit at his laptop and create computer viruses and worms. Online, he goes by the name Second Part to Hell, and he has written more than 150 examples of what computer experts call 'malware': tiny programs that exist solely to self-replicate, infecting computers hooked up to the internet. Sometimes, these programs cause damage and sometimes they don't. Mario says he prefers to create viruses that don't intentionally wreck data, because simple destruction is too easy. 'Anyone can rewrite a hard drive with one or two lines of code,' he says. 'It makes no sense. It's really lame.' Besides which, it's mean, he says, and he likes to be friendly.But still - just to see if he could do it - a year ago he created a rather dangerous tool: a program that autogenerates viruses. It's called a Batch Trojan Generator and anyone can download it freely from Mario's website. With a few simple mouse clicks, you can use the tool to create your own malicious 'Trojan horse'. Like its ancient namesake, a Trojan virus arrives in someone's e-mail looking like a gift, a jpeg picture or a video, for example, but actually bearing dangerous cargo.Mario starts up the tool to show me how it works. A little box appears on his laptop screen, politely asking me to name my Trojan. I call it the 'Clive' virus. Then it asks me what I'd like the virus to do. Shall the Trojan horse format drive C:? Yes, I click. Shall the Trojan horse overwrite every file? Yes. It asks me if I'd like to have the virus activate the next time the computer is restarted and I say yes again.Then it's done. The generator spits out the virus on to Mario's hard drive, a tiny 3k file. Mario's generator also displays a stern notice warning that spreading your creation is illegal. The generator, he says, is just for educational purposes, a way to help curious programmers learn how Trojans work.But, I could ignore that advice. I could give this virus an enticing name, like 'britney-spears-wedding-clip. mpeg' to fool people into thinking it's a video. If I were to email it to a victim and if he clicked on it and didn't have up-to-date anti-virus software, then disaster would strike his computer. The virus would activate. It would quietly reach into the victim's Microsoft Windows operating system and insert new commands telling the computer to erase its own hard drive.The next time the victim started up his computer, the machine would find those new commands, assume they were part of the normal Windows operating system and guilelessly follow them. Everything on his hard drive would vanish - emails, pictures, documents, games. Mario drags the virus over to the trash bin on his computer's desktop and discards it. 'I don't think we should touch that,' he says hastily.Computer experts called 2003 'the Year of the Worm'. For 12 months, digital infections swarmed across the internet with the intensity of a biblical plague. It began in January, when the Slammer worm infected nearly 75,000 servers in 10 minutes, clogging cashpoint networks and causing sporadic flight delays. In the summer, the Blaster worm struck, spreading by exploiting a flaw in Windows; it carried taunting messages directed at Bill    Gates, infected hundreds of thousands of computers and tried to use them to bombard a Microsoft website with data.Then in August, a worm called Sobig.F exploded with even more force, spreading via email that it generated by stealing addresses from victims' computers. It propagated so rapidly that at one point, one out of every 17 email messages travelling through the internet was a copy of Sobig.F. The computer security firm mi2g estimated that the worldwide cost of these attacks in 2003, including clean-up and lost productivity, was at least $82 billion (though such estimates have been criticised for being inflated).The pace of contagion seems to be escalating. When the Mydoom.A email virus struck in late January, it spread even faster than Sobig.F; at its peak, experts estimated, one out of every five email messages was a copy of Mydoom.A. It also carried a nasty payload: it reprogrammed victim computers to attack the website of SCO, a software firm vilified by geeks in the 'open source' software community.You might assume that the blame - and the legal repercussions - for the destruction would land directly at the feet of people like Mario. But as the police around the globe have cracked down on cybercrime in the past few years, virus writers have become more cautious, or at least more crafty. These days, many elite writers do not spread their works at all. Instead, they 'publish' them, posting their code on web  sites, often with detailed descriptions of how the program works. Essentially, they leave their viruses lying around for anyone to use.Invariably, someone does. The people who release the viruses are often anonymous mischief-makers, or 'script kiddies'. That's a derisive term for aspiring young hackers, usually teenagers or students, who don't yet have the skill to program computers but like to pretend they do. They download the viruses, claim to have written them themselves and then set them free in an attempt to assume the role of a fearsome digital menace. Script kiddies often have only a dim idea of how the code works and little concern for how a digital plague can rage out of control. Our modern virus epidemic is thus born of a symbiotic relationship between the people smart enough to write a virus and the people dumb enough - or malicious enough - to spread it.This development worries security experts, because it means that virus writing is no longer exclusively a high-skill profession. By so freely sharing their work, the elite virus writers have made it easy for almost anyone to wreak havoc online. When the damage occurs, as it inevitably does, the original authors just shrug. We may have created the monster, they'll say, but we didn't set it loose. This dodge infuriates security professionals and the police, who say it is legally precise but morally corrupt. Like a collection of young Dr. Frankensteins, the virus writers are increasingly creating forces they cannot control and for which they explicitly refuse to take responsibility.'Where's the beer?' Philet0ast3r wondered. An hour earlier, he had dispatched three friends to pick up another case, but they were nowhere in sight. He looked out over the controlled chaos of his one-bedroom apartment in small-town Bavaria. (Most of the virus writers I visited live in Europe; there have been very few active in the United States since 9/11, because of fears of prosecution.) Philet0ast3r's party was crammed with 20 friends who were blasting out punk band Deftones, playing cards, smoking furiously and arguing about politics. It was a Saturday night. Philet0ast3r, a 21-year-old with a small silver hoop piercing his lower lip, wears his brown hair in thick dreads. (Philet0ast3r is an online handle; he didn't want me to use his name.)His friends finally arrived with a fresh case of beer and his blue eyes lit up. He flicked open a bottle using the edge of his cigarette lighter and toasted the others. A tall blond friend in a jacket festooned with anti-Nike logos put his arm around Philet0ast3r and beamed.'This guy,' he proclaimed, 'is the best at Visual Basic.'In the virus underground, that's love. Visual Basic is a computer language popular among malware authors for its simplicity; Philet0ast3r has used it to create several of the two dozen viruses he's written. From this tiny tourist town, he works as an assistant in a home for the mentally disabled and in his spare time runs an international virus-writers' group called the 'Ready Rangers Liberation Front'. I met him, like everyone profiled in this article, online, first emailing him, then chatting in an internet relay chat channel where virus writers meet and trade tips and war stories.Philet0ast3r got interested in malware the same way most virus authors do: his own computer was hit by a virus. He wanted to know how it worked and began hunting down virus-writers' websites. He discovered years' worth of viruses online, all easily downloadable, as well as primers full of coding tricks. He spent long evenings hanging out in online chat rooms, asking questions, and soon began writing his own worms.One might assume Philet0ast3r would favour destructive viruses, given the fact that his apartment is decorated top to bottom with anti-corporate stickers. But his viruses, like those of many malware writers, are often surprisingly mild things carrying goofy payloads. One he is developing will install two artificial intelligence chat-agents on your computer; they appear in a pop-up window, talking to each other nervously about whether your antivirus software is going to catch and delete them. Philet0ast3r said he was also working on something sneakier - a 'keylogger'. It's a Trojan virus that monitors every keystroke its victim types, including passwords and confidential email messages, then secretly mails out copies to whoever planted the virus. Anyone who spreads this Trojan would be able to quickly harvest huge amounts of sensitive personal information.Technically, 'viruses' and 'worms' are slightly different things. When a virus arrives on your computer, it disguises itself. It might look like an OutKast song ('hey_ya.mp3'), but if you look more closely, you'll see it has an unusual suffix, like 'hey_ya.mp3.exe'. That's because it isn't an MP3 file at all. It's a tiny program and when you click on it, it will reprogram parts of your computer to do something new, like display a message. A virus cannot kick-start itself; a human needs to be fooled into clicking on it. This turns virus writers into armchair psychologists, hunting for new tricks to dupe someone into activating a virus. ('All virus-spreading,' one virus writer said caustically, 'is based on the idiotic behaviour of the users.')Worms, in contrast, usually do not require any human intervention to spread. That means they can travel at the breakneck pace of computers themselves. A worm's danger lies in its speed: when it multiplies, it often generates enough traffic to crash internet servers. The most popular worms today are 'mass mailers' which attack a victim's computer, swipe the addresses out of Microsoft Outlook (the world's most common email program) and send a copy of the worm to everyone in the victim's address book. These days, the distinction between worm and virus is breaking down. A worm will carry a virus with it, dropping it on to the victim's hard drive to do its work, then emailing itself off to a new target.The most ferocious threats today are 'network worms', which exploit a particular flaw in a software product (often one by Microsoft). The author of Slammer, for example, noticed a flaw in Microsoft's SQL Server, an online database commonly used by businesses and governments. The Slammer worm would find an unprotected SQL server, then would fire bursts of information at it, flooding the server's data 'buffer', like a cup filled to the brim with water.Once its buffer was full, the server could be tricked into sending out thousands of new copies of the worm to other servers. Normally, a server should not allow an outside agent to control it that way, but Microsoft had neglected to defend against such an attack. Using that flaw, Slammer flooded the net with 55 million blasts of data per second and in only 10 minutes colonised almost all vulnerable machines.Computer-science experts have a phrase for this type of fast-spreading epidemic, 'a Warhol worm' in honour of Andy Warhol's prediction that everyone would be famous for 15 minutes. 'In computer terms, 15 minutes is a really long time,' says Nicholas Weaver, a researcher at the International Computer Science Institute in Berkeley, who coined the Warhol term. 'The worm moves faster than humans can respond.' He suspects that even more damaging worms are on the way. All a worm writer needs to do is find a significant new flaw in a Microsoft product, then write some code that exploits it. Even Microsoft admits that there are flaws the company doesn't yet know about.Virus writers are especially hostile toward Microsoft, the perennial whipping boy of the geek world. From their (somewhat self-serving) point of view, Microsoft is to blame for the worm epidemic, because the company frequently leaves flaws in its products that allow malware to spread. Microsoft markets its products to less expert computer users, cultivating the sort of gullible victims who click on disguised virus attachments.But it is Microsoft's success that really makes it such an attractive target: since more than 90 per cent of desktop computers run Windows, worm writers target Microsoft in order to hit the largest possible number of victims. (By relying so exclusively on Microsoft products, virus authors say, we have created a digital monoculture, a dangerous thinning of the internet's gene pool.) Microsoft is now so angry that it has launched a counterattack. Last autumn, it set up a $5 million fund to pay for information leading to the capture of writers who target Windows machines. So far, it has announced $250,000 bounties for the creators of Blaster, Sobig.F and Mydoom.B.The motivations of the top virus writers can often seem paradoxical. They spend hours dreaming up new strategies to infect computers, then hours more bringing them to reality. Yet when they're done, most of them say they have little interest in turning their creations free. Though Philet0ast3r is proud of his keylogger, he said he does not intend to release it into the wild. His reason is partly one of self-protection; he wouldn't want the police to trace it back to him. But he also said he does not ethically believe in damaging someone else's computer.So why write a worm, if you're not going to spread it?For the sheer challenge, Philet0ast3r replied, the fun of producing something 'really cool'. For the top worm writers, the goal is to make something that's brand new. A truly innovative worm, Philet0ast3r said, 'is like art'. To allow his malware to travel swiftly online, the virus writer must keep its code short and efficient. 'One condition of art,' he noted, 'is doing good things with less.'
Laura Church, fitness trainer to Gillingham Football Club until the wife of one of its players intercepted a midnight text message from her with the sign-off XXX , is waiting to hear the outcome of her employment tribunal case against the club for unfair dismissal and sex discrimination - as are we all. Miss Church claims that her good looks and athletic figure upset the footballers' wives and that her simple congratulations to defender Chris Hope - Well done, great game, you are a brilliant player, XXX - was misunderstood by Mrs Hope.Ms Church is obviously a modern woman, liberal with her text XXXing. But, that being so, we can't help but feel she would have had a watertight case if she had shown the tribunal examples of other texts, such as: hi mr bank manager have got sack pls xtend odraft by 2500 tks XXX or: hi sven need nu fitness trainer? laura XXX. Even: hi mrs hope why u so cross? just stupid txtmsg. 0 happen. laura c XXX . The rest of us will no doubt be minding our XXXs in future.
"The probe into how portions of code for Windows 2000 and Windows NT 4.0 became widely available on the Internet last week shoved Mainsoft and its work into an unfamiliar prominence. References to Mainsoft appeared within portions of leaked code and in an accompanying file, according to computer security experts who have seen the code. What role, if any, Mainsoft may have played in the leak is not known, but the company has much at stake in the legal investigation," according to theMercury Newstoday.Comment: this story does not seem to have gone anywhere in the past week, whenBetaNewsran a story: Windows Source Leak Traces Back to Mainsoft. This reported that "The leaked code includes 30,915 files and was apparently removed from a Linux computer used by Mainsoft for development purposes" and: "Clues to the source code's origin lie in a 'core dump' file, which is left by the Linux operating system to record the memory a program is using when it crashes. Further investigation by BetaNews revealed the machine was likely used by Mainsoft's Director of Technology, Eyal Alaluf."But it would be amusing if the Windows code leak did turn out to be the result of Linux crashing.
"Finnish technology group Setec said Tuesday it won the first order for passports with new biometric technology required by international aviation authorities and the US government," reportsAP."Denmark ordered 3 million passports to be made in Finland and personalized by the Setec's Danish subsidiary near Copenhagen, the company said. Deliveries will begin in late 2004."
Mobile phone shops do not, traditionally, have a reputation for being theatres of conflict. But I must report that I witnessed a rather undignified scuffle in a Carphone Warehouse last week.The problem revolved around the fact that the store had just one Nokia 7600 mobile phone in stock, and two punters desperate to buy it. Mercifully, the incident didn't quite reach fisticuffs. But it did encompass a rather heated  debate when the lucky owner of the new phone refused to sell it to his rival, even for double the price.So why the enthusiasm for the phone? Well the Nokia 7600 is the company's first 3G to go on sale in the UK. Although it was offered to the only UK 3G network, Three, it was initially turned down as the handset doesn't sport the company's signature feature - the ability to make video calls.Enter Carphone Warehouse (CW) which - sensing that the phone's unusual tear-shaped design, line up of facilities and intuitive Nokia interface - would ensure its success, decided to offer an exclusive deal on the handsets.Bizarrely an agreement was then reached with Three and there are now a limited number of 7600s available from CW with a Three SIM card.Ironically the 7600 might be a 3G phone, but the version available via CW uses very few of the technology's advanced features.Up until its launch two weeks ago CW were promising that the 7600 would access the internet, download a person's POP3 email and hook up to a laptop to allow web surfing, all at blazingly fast 3G speeds. Sadly when the phone arrived things were very different.The phone does run on the Three network, so users can take advantage of Three's ultra cheap voice calls. They can also download or stream news and weather videos. However, just like every other Three phone, the phone can only access the handful of web and wap sites Three has partner deals with. Also owners can't use the POP3 email client on the phone and as for surfing on laptop at 3G speeds - well for Three customers that remains a distant dream.The Nokia 7600 is undeniably cute though, and even within the limitations of the Three network, it has plenty of features. It seems though that Three has missed a trick in not ordering large numbers of the handset and selling it through its own stores.Pay as you go 3GThe next rabbit Three is likely to pull from the hat is an ultra cheap pay as you go service, the theory being that once you?ve hooked punters in on cheap voice calls you then might get them using your premium services like video calling and downloads.It might work, but I fear that when it comes to attracting customers for premium data services, the type of applications for which 3G is optimised for, Three will get left behind. This is largely because early adopters and gadget fans simply won't go near the network any more.Three made a fundamental error back in Autumn 2003 by limiting the functionality of the Motorola A920 mobile phone. The A920 could have become the most coveted high-end phones available. I had a play with one that hadn't yet been locked into the Three network and was knocked out by its ultra quick 3G web surfing capabilities as well as the video calling and GPS applications.By not allowing users to harness 3G speeds to surf the net, download large e-mail files or even add extra features to the phone via its Symbian operating system, Three sacrificed all its credibility within the phone community.There was even an online petition with several thousand signatures begging Three to open up the handset. It fell on deaf ears. To rub a huge amount of salt in the wound Three networks in other parts of Europe haven't locked the handset in this way.The standard line trotted out whenever the company is asked about these issues is that Three is constantly reviewing them. Make of that what you will.Whatever, there is nothing more annoying to gadget lovers than being offered an incredible product only to find that half its key features don't work.Three is running out of time. Vodafone has already unveiled a 3G PC card for business laptop users and is expected to announce a full consumer launch for 3G very shortly. Both Orange and O2 could also make similar announcements at the annual industry bunfight 3GSM in Cannes, France next week.Part of me would love Three to succeed for having the balls to launch 3G first. Sadly, I think that it might end up as a company whose major use of all that wonderful 3G bandwidth is to let its subscribers make some cheap voice calls.Three.co.ukCarphonewarehouse.comMotorola.co.uk
"The world's No 2 computer maker reported sales of $19.5 billion in the quarter ended Jan 31, up from $17.9 billion a year earlier. Profit rose to $936 million ... from $721 million ... a year earlier, reports theMercury News."PC revenue was up 20% to $6.2 billion, with unit sales up 23% over last year. Its notebook business grew by 52%. Operating profit increased by $29 million to $62 million."
Vodafone's failure to snap up AT&amp;T Wireless this week was seen mainly as a clash of corporate titans. Hardly anyone seemed to notice some of the things happening in the background - like the explosion of text messaging in the US.This may not have been the main reason for Vodafone's bid but it does open up exciting possibilities for the future. Until recently it has been presumed that text messaging failed to take off in the US because Americans are different and preferred alternatives like instant messaging and PDAs.There is a much simpler explanation. They didn't do it because they couldn't. But now they can - and once they start they won't find it easy to break the habit.The main obstacle to texting in the US was the lack of interconnections between the mobile phone networks. While Europe and most of Asia had standardised GSM technology (one of the most successful industrial policy decisions in recent memory) the US had multiple systems including TDMA, CDMA, iDen, as well as GSM, and they didn't communicate with each other very well, if at all.During the past year that has all changed. There are still dozens of minor networks that haven't changed but most of the major ones now enable text messages to be sent between them to pay-for services like texting, ring tones, dating, voting and Java games.As a result the US has now had the Eureka moment that Britain had at the beginning of 1998 when texting suddenly erupted after the operators opened up their networks to each other.Earlier this month Mblox, the UK company based in London's fashionable Clerkenwell neighbourhood, and One World Interactive became the first companies to offer facilities to send premium text messages to large operators in the US. Andrew Bud, CEO of Mblox, hopes to use the experience he has gained in the UK to grab at least 25% of the US market.Official figures are not yet available but unofficial ones suggest that more text messages are now being sent in the US than in (admittedly smaller) Britain. Texting was given a big boost by the SMS-voting element in American Idol, the US version of Pop Idol.Last year 7.5m text messages were sent during the TV series according to AT&amp;T (yes, the same AT&amp;T that Vodafone tried to buy). This year 10 times as many votes were texted during the early stages as last year.The opening up of the US market to texting - and its more profitable brother, premium SMS - has opened up huge opportunities for content providers. For the first time someone who dreams up a game or some other "content" in a back bedroom in Salford has a potential global market only a click away.This, of course, was also true of the internet. But the internet never had, and still has not got, an easy way of  enabling small content providers to be paid. Mobile phones have, thanks to premium messages. Also, the cost of  producing mobile games or other content is far cheaper than console games or online games.There is still a huge marketing problem - telling people your product is there - but anyone who can conquer that could make a killing. Another factor holding back content providers was the misguided way the telephone operators tried to keep a stranglehold on the revenues generated by the products they were transmitting.Nothing could be likelier to kill the golden goose than to pay peanuts to the creative people at the beginning of the chain. There are now positive signs of change. Instead of trying to recoup the billions they coughed up for 3G licences by snatching up to 80% of the revenue generated, some operators are becoming more realistic.The enlightened ones have realised that if they just take a (relatively) modest charge for transmission - which is what they do best - then they will get more business in the end because they won't have snuffed out the content providers at birth.&#183;Victor Keegan is editor of Guardian Online
BT yesterday won a &#163;530m contract to build and manage a broadband network for the high-speed transfer of patient data between NHS hospitals and surgeries.Construction of the system is part of a &#163;5bn national programme to modernise IT systems used by the health service. It will allow doctors to share large data files such as x-rays which the existing NHSnet cannot transfer because it operates on a lower bandwidth.The deal with the Department of Health will last for seven years and integrate existing regional IT networks into a single system. It deepens ties between BT and the NHS as the health service seeks to upgrade crucial technology.BT recently won a &#163;620m contract to build the national patient record database in partnership with Oracle, Sun Microsystems and LogicaCMG.The group won a &#163;996m contract in December to design and operate a healthcare system in London.
USA Todayreports: A plan to let students play video games such as Big League Slugger and NFL Blitz in gym classes has been scrapped by Okaloosa County's school superintendent. Fort Walton Beach High School wanted to use a PlayStation as part of a team sports course in the next school year as a way of motivating more students to take physical education, said principal Alexis Tibbetts.Superintendent Don Gaetz halted registration for the course Tuesday, calling it "an idea whose time will never come."
Computers have been able to generate the sound of a large variety of musical instruments for decades, and now Yamaha, the Japanese company which developed its first music synthesiser in 1974, has created software that synthesises the most complex musical instrument of all: the human voice.The software, called Vocaloid, is a "singing engine": type in lyrics and a melody and it carries out the complex mathematical operations needed to generate a voice singing the words to the right tune. The actual sound that emerges depends on which voice font, or virtual vocalist, is used with the software.The first sound fonts available for Vocaloid, a male soul voice called Leon and a female soul voice called Lola, have been produced by Cornwall-based sound library Zero-G. To create the fonts, two real singers each spent a week in the company's studio recording thousands of different singing sounds and transitions between sounds from a pre-arranged script.A further 6,000 man-hours was then required to process the sounds and turn them into what is in effect a 600MB database of voice snippets.   To produce realistic vocals when words and music are typed in, Vocaloid retrieves the appropriate snippets to assemble the right words, alters their pitch according to the tune, and splices them together to produce smooth-sounding singing."The result is a clone of each singer's voice, with exactly the same tone, pronunciation and intonation as the real people," says Ed Stratton, former record producer and Zero-G's managing director. "What you get is singing that is perfectly in tune, but totally expressionless and inhumanly flat. To add emotion you then have to adjust various parameters: add vibrato, fiddle around with the timing of each sound to make it more natural, slide up to a note rather than hitting it straightaway. For backing vocals, you can do this quite quickly and you can't tell the difference between a human and the computer. For an exposed lead vocal, where you want to hear much more expression and artistry, it's much harder."Since experienced backing singers charge fees of up to &#163;1,000 per day, the software, at just under &#163;200 per font, may soon start replacing them as an inexpensive alternative. That's why the singers whose voices were used to produce the Lola and Leon   sound fonts have chosen to remain anonymous.But Miriam Stockley, the identity behind Zero-G's next sound font, Miriam, has no such qualms. Stockley has sung on recordings by artists including Elton John, Tina Turner and George Michael, and believes that since voice fonts of named singers will inevitably become   available, she may as well be the first."It took me a couple of months to make the decision to make the Miriam virtual vocalist, as I had all the normal fears that it would simply replace me in the market," Stockley says. "But if I hear my virtual voice singing a song it definitely won't be me singing, as it won't have my nuances and artistry. That could only   happen if the person using the software knew me very well indeed - and the only person who knows me well enough is me." Stockley plans to put this self-knowledge into practice by replacing her real voice with her virtual one on some of the backing tracks on her next recordings.Vocaloid may also be used in the advertising industry as an inexpensive way to experiment with different words in musical jingles. Once the necessary expression and nuance settings have been made, the jingles could then be tailored for different markets simply by switching from a male to a female voice font, or a younger to an older one, or a voice with a southern accent to a voice with a Scottish one.In the future, the software could prove a boon if you're interested in singing on your own recordings - but have a terrible singing voice. Instead of using Lola, Leon or Miriam, you could have your own voice turned into a voice font for the lead and backing vocals. "It would sound like your voice singing, but it would be perfectly in tune, and you would be able to sing much higher and lower than you really could," says Stratton. "You would have great technique with beautiful vibrato, as if you had done years of study, and your expression would be far beyond what you could really do," he says.For the moment, however, there are no plans to allow individuals to create their own voice fonts. When this does become possible, it may even be feasible to create voice fonts from sounds cut from recordings of singers from the past, with thetantalising possibility of bringing their voices back from the dead for contemporary recordings. Louis Armstrong performing opera, or even Noel Coward singing rap, anyone?www.zero-g.co.uk
"Frustrated by an impasse in the IEEE standards body, Intel Corp and its partners have decided to pull out of the standards organization and develop their own version of ultrawideband technology. The MultiBand OFDM Alliance, backed by Intel, Texas Instruments Inc., and others, will design their own UWB radio layer and the associated silicon. Many of the MBOA member companies also announced the Wireless USB Promoter Group on Wednesday, which will use the eventual MBOA standard to run the Universal Serial Bus protocol over the UWB radio," reportsExtreme Tech."For Intel, UWB's appeal is simple: eliminating the USB and IEEE 1394 cords that connect consumer and other devices with a PC. 'Our job is to kill the wires and we think that UWB is the technology that kills the rat's nest (of wires),' said Pat Gelsinger, chief technology officer of Intel, at the Intel Developer Forum here."
The New York Times has tried the VisiFonehere[free reg req'd]
CamerasFast forwardCasio is introducing a new range of digital cameras, the Exilim Pro, aimed at photographers who want the enhanced functionality of high-end models yet prefer the Exilim's compact design. The first model in the series, the EX-P600, which debuts next month, is capable of taking six-megapixel images, features a 4x optical zoom lens, a 2in TFT LCD screen and has ultra-fast start-up, picture capture and autofocus times. A new feature is high-speed playback that enables users to scroll through up to 100 images in less than 10 seconds. There are no details on prices yet.www.casio.co.ukCamera phonesFlash featureSiemens has unveiled one of the first camera phones to be accompanied by a detachable flash for shooting images in low-light conditions. Aimed at the top end of the handset market, the chocolate bar style CX-65 is also unusual for the size of its 132 x 176 pixel, 65k colour screen, which is much larger than many of its rivals. In addition to the camera, which can take both VGA still and moving images, the phone sports Java for games/ringtones downloads and a POP3 email client. It also features 1MB of storage and has a talk time of five hours and standby of 250 hours. It will go on sale in April.www.my-siemens.comMobile phonesWalkie-talkieMotorola has become the second manufacturer to announce a Push-to-Talk   (PTT) mobile phone for the UK market. Similar to Nokia's 5140, which was announced several weeks ago, the V400p features a PTT button that enables the handset to communicate like a walkie-talkie with other similarly specified handsets. At present only Orange has confirmed the launch of a PTT service in Europe although other networks are expected to announce similar programmes soon. The phone itself is a clamshell model, not unlike Motorola's recently launched V500 model, featuring a 65k colour screen, VGA camera, Java, POP3 email compatibility and MP3 polyphonic ringtones. Both the V400p and the 5140 go on sale in the UK in April/May.www.motorola.com/ukInternetFormats for allCompared with words on paper, software file formats have the lifespan of a fruit fly. So the National Archives at Kew has opened a website aimed at preserving digitally held data, by providing information on supporting, and transferring data between, such formats. Pronom contains information on more than 250 software products and 550 file formats. It was built to help the National   Archives deal with government data, but "we realised it was of use to other people, so we made it freely available," says Adrian Brown, services manager for digital preservation. Expansion plans include tools to extract file format and metadata from a document, and a reminder service to warn when support for a format is ending.Mobile operatorsSeat at the catwalkSubscribers to O2's Active - the mobile operator's multimedia portal - can now stream highlights from London Fashion Week on their mobiles. After successfully introducing highlights of the Rugby World Cup, O2 swaps muddy boots for stilettos by streaming Sunday's catwalk show by UK designers FrostFrench, the label set up by actress Sadie Frost and her best friend Jemima French. The 15-minute show is streamed over the GPRS network. The service is free except for the cost of the data transfer and you will need a video-enabled handset, like an XDA II or Nokia's 6600. The actual video quality is a little darker than equivalent TV pictures, but then again you can't usually fit a TV into your handbag.&lt;A HREF="http://www.o2.co.uk/frostfrench"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.o2.co.uk/frostfrenchPDASony's new PalmSony has announced a new high-end Palm-based PDA for the UK - the Clie PEG-TH55. It features the upright form factor of Sony's Palm OS based models (there's no keyboard as on the PEG-UX50) and boasts a 320 x 480 pixel, 65k colour screen. The TH55 uses the Palm OS 5.2 operating system and has 32MB of ROM and 32MB of RAM for storage. Connectivity options include integrated Wi-Fi (802.11b) and Bluetooth. Entertainment facilities include a built-in camera, video and image viewing software and an MP3/Atrac music player. Sony has also upgraded the organiser's interface, which it claims makes it easier to access the PDA's applications. It goes on sale now for around &#163;300.www.sony.co.ukBroadbandChannel shoppingDiscovery, which produces documentary channels for satellite and cable television, has started selling its material through broadband. A programme can be purchased for 24 hours for between 99p and &#163;1.99, using BT's Click &amp; Buy service. For &#163;5.99 you get one month's access to either Discovery Select, which covers science, history and nature and Discovery Home &amp; Leisure, with lifestyle programming. More are planned. The site works on recent Windows and Mac computers running a range of browsers.www.discoverybroadband.co.ukStat of the week: Britain's net population growsThe Office of National Statistics found a 6.5% increase in internet subscriptions last year in the UK. 22.5% of all subs are for "always-on" connections, including broadband, while only 6% are for pay-by-the-minute links.
The New Museum of Contemporary Art occupies three floors of very expensive real estate in lower Manhattan. It is the kind of place where you will see superstar artists, such as Jeff Koons or Bruce Nauman, in big solo shows. But in December, the 25 year old SoHo institution opened the city's first major exhibition of computer games. The opening night of Killer Instinct had all the noise and intensity of a seaside video arcade at high season, except that the audience was fast approaching 30."Computer games are now a fully-fledged part of adult life," explains Anne Barlow, the Glasgow-born curator who co-produced Killer Instinct with New York art critic Rachel Greene. "They're becoming part of our everyday existence and yet we rarely question them... What we want to see is games going beyond the stereotypical formats that have so far dominated."Three days later, 20 doors down from the New Museum, protesters gather outside the office of Rockstar Games. The hundred or so Haitian-American activists echo Barlow's sentiments, although for quite different reasons. Rockstar is the publisher of Grand Theft Auto, the series of ultraviolent games that has sold over 11m copies worldwide. Led by the Rev Leslie Thomas, the activists accuse Rockstar of racism over the representation of Haitians in the game.To both the protesters on the pavement and the curators inside the museum, computer games can be every bit as political - and controversial - as any other part of contemporary culture. And yet despite frequent reports that the games industry is now bigger than Hollywood - $27bn in worldwide sales in 2002, with a market growing 20% a year - exhibitions of computer games and protests about their content are as rare as discussions of Harry Potter on Late Review."There are some people who feel very strongly that games deserve to be treated with the same deadly seriousness that film and quality television receive," says Margaret Robertson, games editor of Edge, a monthly games magazine with a stylish and intelligent approach to game criticism. "There's another group of people who think games are simply entertainment that shouldn't be weighed down with rather pompous aspirations to artistic merit."There are two assumptions behind this debate. Firstly, that the computer games industry is a young industry. Secondly, that the rump of the market is in sales to children and teenagers. These assumptions are wrong. Not only was the first computer game designed by the US military over 40 years ago, the last decade has witnessed an astonishing widening of their appeal. According to Nick Parker, an independent games analyst, the last decade has seen a shift in the demographics of computer games. In 1993 half of all UK computer games were sold to under 17s. In 2002 half of all games were sold to 18-25 year olds.Furthermore, a recent survey commissioned by UK publisher Codemasters said under 18s now accounted for a mere 21% of sales. It also reported that nearly half of all UK gamers are in their twenties and 32% are now over 30. More research by UK media analysts Xtreme Information indicated that half of over-50 year olds who own a PC regularly play computer games. In the US, a poll released by the Entertainment Software Association found that the average age of gamers was 29.But if the demographics of gamers are shifting, are computer games managing to keep pace? A glance at the current bestseller list would suggest not. The majority of computer games seem to be based in adolescence, with driving games, sports sims and movie tie-ins, such as Lord of the Rings, topping the charts."The biggest problem is the market," grumbles Charles Cecil of Revolution, which creates contemporary adventure games for a mature audience. He argues that the industry "does not seem to embrace products that are slightly off-the-wall. An art house movie can be made relatively inexpensively, an independent record can be made in a bedroom for next to nothing, but to write a videogame that has the production values that are acceptable to the market ... that's   going to cost millions".In the catalogue for the Barbican's influential Game On exhibition in 2002, Eric Zimmerman, a game developer and occasional academic, explored the idea that computer games were unique in mainstream culture because they had no credible independent scene. In an insightful essay, Zimmerman described how the games industry had fought its way out of the teenage bedroom only to find itself cast as an extremely conservative, "hit-driven business that is all centre and no margins".But this could be about to change. Back at the opening of Killer Instinct, a new wave of game artists showed that independent games do exist. "If computer games are as big as Hollywood," offers Eddo Stern, an affable veteran of the Israeli Air Force, "then this is the art house scene". Stern is a member of C-Level, a cooperative of artists and programmers based in Los Angeles who are pioneering indy games. Stern describes Waco Resurrection as an interactive "documentary" set in the form of a first-person game that explores the events of the 1993 siege when the storming of the Texas compound by US agents caused the death of 80 cult members.Stern says that Waco Resurrection is a documentary in the sense that it takes authentic footage from media   coverage of the siege including vocal samples of leader David Koresh and recordings of his songs.And then there is 9/11 Survivor, by Californian collective Kinematic. The game, which transports players inside the burning towers, provoked severe charges of bad taste when it was released for a brief period on the internet last year. "The artists responded that their goal was to reinterpret a historic moment by transplanting it to the medium with which they were most familiar: computer games," wrote the digital art critic Matthew Mirapaul in the New York Times. "In the process they are turning what has been a platform for pure fantasy into a medium for social realism."Many indy games are just hacked versions of existing games - known as "mods" - that place a layer of new graphics over an existing game engine; 9/11 Survivor uses bestselling combat game Unreal Tournament 2003. But now an independent game engine called Torque, built by Oregon-based start-up Garage Games, is threatening to slash the cost of game production. Under the maxim "world domination through collaboration", the company publishes games under its own label and licenses the engine to other indies for as little as $100. It might sound like a cottage industry, but Garage Games   has already established a community of over 40,000 members working on more than 1,000 game projects.The first generation of indy games are confrontational affairs. But on the island of Gotland, 80km off Sweden's Baltic coast, two Brits, Alex Mayhew and Emma Westecott, are developing indy games that offer a more cerebral trip. The pair head up a game studio for Sweden's Interactive Institute, a public research centre that specialises in digital media. They are working with the Royal Shakespeare Company to produce a computer game of The Tempest and with avant-garde director Peter Greenaway to produce a game for his current project, The Tulse Luper Suitcases."Most games are constantly striving for some kind of ultra-reality as if that is the greatest achievement," says Mayhew. "Whereas for us, the greatest achievement is to trigger an emotional response just as if you were reading a novel."So do we want this emotional response? After all, aren't games just simply games, a space where we go to play? Maybe, but computer games have evolved to differ from other types of games, because they use stories. The trouble is that although gamers are now a generation older, most of these stories are still being written for kids.www.newmuseum.org/killerinstinctwww.escapefromwoomera.orgwww.kinematic.org/911http://waco.c-level.orghttp://zerogame.tii.se
Yahoo! has struck out on its own in the increasingly lucrative web search market by launching its own search engine and ending its relationship with rival Google.The internet company's decision to launch Yahoo! Search follows its purchase of search provider Inktomi and web advertiser Overture Services in 2003.Yahoo! had been relying on Google's search technology since June 2000. The $2bn buyout was seen as a sign of Yahoo!'s intention to muscle in on Google's seemingly unimpeachable position as the number one search engine. Microsoft has also signalled its commitment to enter the search engine market as a major rival to both Yahoo! and Google by investing millions in developing its own search technology to use on the MSN.com website.Jeff Weiner, senior vice-president of Yahoo! search and marketplace, said the move "uniquely positions Yahoo! to change the game in search".Mr Weiner said "nearly half" of all online searches in the US will be powered by Yahoo! Search Technology once the process of rolling out the new algorithmic search to Yahoo!'s worldwide array of websites is complete - a process that could take several weeks."Today's announcement marks the beginning of a rapid succession of innovations from Yahoo! Search that will deliver against our mission of providing the highest quality search experience on the web," Mr Weiner said.Jonathan Rosenberg, vice-president of product management at Google, told the Reuters news agency: "The transition has obviously been underway for many months. It doesn't come as a surprise."Yahoo!'s announcement will put extra pressure on Google, which is mulling over a widely-anticipated initial public offering (IPO) of its stock - a move that could raise as much as $20bn, prompting comparisons to net firms' stock offerings during the dotcom boom of the 90s. The cash generated could help Google to fight off Microsoft and Yahoo!'s attempts to grab its slice of the search market.Google announced earlier this week that had expanded its web index by one billion pages, increasing its total breadth by about one third.
In the beginning, way back in 1996, it was SixDegrees. Last year, it was Friendster. Last week, it was Orkut. Next week, it could be Flickr. All these websites, and dozens more, are designed to build networks of friends, and they are currently at the forefront of the trendiest internet development: social networking. But unless they can start to offer more substantial benefits, it is hard to see them all surviving, once the Friend Of A Friend (Foaf) standard becomes a normal part of life on the net.Social networking was one of the key themes of O'Reilly's Emerging Technology conference held last week in San Diego, California. Ludicorp used the platform to unveil Flickr, only just stopping short of writing code on stage. In Software for Skyscrapers, James Crabtree and William Davies from the UK's iSociety (The Work Foundation) proposed a practical application: linking the residents of Skyhouse, a new residential tower in Docklands. During the coffee breaks, attendees were adding to their network of friends on the current geek favourite, the Google-backed Orkut.There was plenty of sizzle, but it remains to be seen whether there is much meat in the sausage. There's a nice science-fiction cartoon where an alien is being introduced to a human at a party. "Oh, you're from Earth," it says. "Do you know... " The chances are slim, but the curious fact is that everybody on the planet probably is connected indirectly, via friends of friends. Social psychologist Stanley Milgram purportedly showed this in 1967, with an experiment that involved forwarding letters to a stockbroker in Boston. If you didn't know the target, you were asked to forward   the letter to a friend you thought was closer. It apparently took about six steps for the letters to reach their target, which led to the idea of "six degrees of separation". This became the title of a popular play by John Guare, which led to the party game, Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon, and to the pioneering SixDegrees website, which patented the idea. (SixDegrees failed but says it is "relaunching soon".)The expansion of the internet has brought this simple idea to the mass market, as illustrated by the emergence of at least two dozen Friendster-style websites including Microsoft's experimental Three Degrees (Judith Meskell is busy cataloguing more than a hundred at theSocial Software Weblog. Most of the sites allow you to fill in your own profile, upload a photo, and add other people as friends.You can then map your network of friends, and the system can show links to friends of friends. If you have 20 friends then you could easily have 20,000 Foafs, and on Friendster, some personal networks already run into the millions. This sort of social networking happens all the time via clubs and societies, and the unofficial "old boy's network," but you could never keep track of it manually.Orkut - named after its creator, Orkut Buyukkokten - is the hot site of the moment. Because Friendster-style software is easy to produce, Orkut's biggest advantage is its close association with Google. This has helped it attract the "alpha geek" bloggers and commentators on social software. But being new is an advantage in itself. Join a new service and there are lots of things to do, such as tracking down friends and entering your lists of favourite movies, and so on. Perhaps not until the initial activity has died down, in a few months, will many users start to wonder if there are any practical benefits.The search for a payback could be the start of a shift from categorising social software by what it does for us instead of how it works, according to Davies. And if the aim is fun or gaming, he says, "the Flickr presentation showed us that it can be done a heck of a lot better when it sets out with this goal in the first place".Of course, Friendster started with an obvious function - dating - and it plans to add more applications as it tries to make money from its millions of users. On an intranet, Orkut would make a pretty good corporate address book and messaging system, with a bit of built-in group conferencing. But ultimately, any site's value depends on the quality of the information it provides, and you can't really trust unchecked data. If it follows Friendster, Orkut will also   have its share of dishonest profiles, people who sign up dozens of complete strangers as "friends", and completely fictitious characters, known as pretendsters or fakesters.Ludicorp's Flickr, which could become a hot site, also has a function: sharing photos. It started with the basic idea: "What if we put live chat together with social networks and enabled people to share media with one another in real time?" Although this is already possible using instant messaging software and groupware sites such as Google Groups and Yahoo Groups, Flickr makes it far easier: the photos you want to share are in a "shoebox" along the bottom of the screen, and you send one by dropping the picture on a buddy's name.Sharing photos online is likely to become more popular as more people buy digital cameras, and as cameras are built in to most mobile phones. Ludicorp's Eric Costello says the plan is to have photos uploaded automatically: We hope to have "watched folders", so if you drop a photo into a folder it will just show up in your shoebox. Also, we hope to integrate it with other photo sites, such as Ofoto, so you could pull in photos from there, or push photos there so you can have prints made of them."A system that can be used to share photos can ultimately be adapted to share all sorts of things, and Flickr could obviously go much further. Ludicorp's Vancouver-based founder and president, Stewart Butterfield, says they're trying to build a system that supports relationships that transcend particular applications - instant messaging, email, Orkut etc.Something like Flickr is one possible solution to the problem raised at ETech by Marc Canter from Broadband Mechanics: "There are so many social networks, how are we going to connect them all together?" It's bad enough just having to enter your personal details into half a dozen incompatible sites, so no one is going to join hundreds. But it gets   worse. In this context, "friends" includes passing acquaintances, colleagues, business contacts, people you went to school with etc, so you could easily have 100 friends or more - Canter has 459 on Orkut. If each friend joins five sites, you could get 500 to 5,000 emails asking you to confirm and classify your relationship. The traffic is already starting to drive some people batty.Anybody who was going to do this thing rationally would want three things:&#183;There should be a standards-based, machine-readable data format that could be used by any social networking site. Rather than you having to type in (or copy and paste in) your personal details, the site should be able to load them from a file. The vCard virtual business card is an old example of how this works in practice.&#183;Personal information management programs should be able to generate correctly-formatted files for you, the way Microsoft Outlook and other Pims generate vCards. You should never have to retype details that are already in your address book, for example.&#183;Social networking services and other interested parties should be able to use a form of autodiscovery to collect your data automatically, either from your PC, from your website, or from any public place you have chosen to post it. Rather than sending users emails asking them to update their details, sites should be able to pick them up (with your permission).We don't have all that yet, but an experimental project called Foaf is heading in the right direction. Foaf is part of the World Wide Web Consortium's semantic web development,   and is based on the W3C-recommended RDF (Resource Description Framework) and XML (eXtensible Markup Language) standards. Both Dan Brickley from the W3C and Edd Dumbill gave presentations about Foaf at ETech, and the Tribe social networking site announced that it would support the system. With Foaf, you can post a machine-readable page containing whatever personal details you like, real or imagined."It's 'out of control' by design," says Brickley. "It's there for anybody to play with." And you don't have to be geek: anyone can create a Foaf using theFoaf-a-matic website.Foaf files can be read by computers, so it should eventually be possible to answer queries such as: How old is Marc Canter; Show me pictures bloggers who live in London; and Find recent articles written by people who went to ETech - always assuming people have put the relevant information in their foaf.rdf file. In the meantime, you can look at Foaf pages with Foaf Explorer or FOAFnaut.There's not much you can do with Foaf at the moment, but Dumbill, who lives in York, demonstrated his BlueFOAF program at ETech. This scans for "discoverable Bluetooth devices" - typically mobile phones - and if it finds any that belong to friends in your Foaf file, shows you their name and photo in a buddy list. As a Linux desktop application, this has some amusement value at a conference where most people are carrying Bluetooth phones. But it could be a killer application running on a mobile phone in a bar or disco.Emerging Technology 2004www.oreillynet.com/et2004BlueFOAFhttp://usefulinc.com/edd/blog/2004/2/1What kind of social software are you?http://undergroundlondon.com/social
Address a needIs it possible to save addresses to a floppy disk? I would like to pass along part of my Outlook Express 6 address book, that I use, among other things, for a Morris dancing site.Trevor AdamsJS:Sharing an address book is easy. Search your hard drive for *.wab to find the Windows Address Book file and you can copy that to a floppy. Give it a new name (eg dancers.wab), and copy it to the new PC. Finally, open the address book on that machine and do a File|Import|Address Book (WAB).Passing on part of an address book is tricky. What I would do is create a group (select New then New Group) and give it a name such as Dancers. Click on Select Members, highlight your Morris contacts one or more at a time, and click on Select to copy them to the group. Click OK when done. Now select the Dancers group in Windows Address Book's left-hand pane, click on the right-hand pane, and select all the names (Ctrl-A).Hold down the right mouse button and drag all the names to an empty directory in Windows Explorer, let go and select Copy Here from the pop-up menu. This will create a number of small vCards (virtual business cards), one for each person. Copy all these files to a floppy disk and then to a temporary directory on the new computer.Open the address book on the new machine and load the vCards by dragging and dropping the whole lot into the right-hand pane. (The recipient could create a new, empty group to hold them.) vCards are a cross-platform industry standard and this trick should work with any modern address book software. If it doesn't, you can always load the addresses into a vCard-compatible address book by double-clicking each vcf file.I think that keeping a floppy full of vCards is a good way to keep a back-up of your address book. However, there is a possible glitch, which comes up in Mac OS X and possibly other places. If you drag multiple addresses out of the Mac Address Book, you get a single card with multiple entries. Some address books cannot read multiple cards.Manual updatesI have just upgraded my computer, which involved re-installing Windows 98SE. I now need to download the updates from Microsoft, but find they are at least 13MB. As I have a dial-up connection, this will take forever.David PrestageJS:You have spotted a flaw in the Windows Update system: it generally works well if you use it often, but cumulative updates can take a long time. Microsoft often collects updates into bundles called service packs, so the quickest option is often to download the latest service pack on its own, then return for minor updates later. Microsoft also provides updates separately, for companies that want to download the update once then apply it to dozens of PCs. You can use this facility to download updates one at a time, in a few minutes each. You can also keep copies of these updates so you don't have to download them again if you reformat and reinstall Windows. Go towww.microsoft.com/windows98/downloadsCorporate users and readers who prefer this approach can search for updates athttp://corporate.windowsupdate.microsoft.comorhttp://v4.windowsupdate.microsoft.comDue to the extreme cleverness of the Windows Update system (which is synonymous with "extreme stupidity") you may need to resort to the troubleshooter athttp://v4.windowsupdate.microsoft.com/troubleshootBatteries to goYour reply on iPod batteries reminded me that I have a defunct lithium-ion battery from my laptop. Have you any suggestions as to where I might take it for proper disposal?Michael FarringdonJS:It is a good question but, sorry to say, I do not have a good answer. This page at least explains the options:www.wasteonline.org.uk/resourcesBackchatJerry Wilson queried my statement that "the most common DRM is the one used in Microsoft's proprietary WMA (Windows Media Audio) audio file format." Jerry has overlooked the non-download uses, including the tens of millions - perhaps hundreds of millions - of Windows XP users who are inadvertently creating licensed files from their own CDs. This means that every track that is copied to their PC is a licensed file that cannot be played on any other PC unless they backup and restore their licenses on the other computer. I strongly advise Windows Media Player users to turn this feature off. Fortunately it is easy to do. Go to Tools, select Options, and click the CD Audio tab. Untick the box marked Enable Personal Rights Management.
X2: The ThreatPC, Koch Media, &#163;29.99&#42;&#42;&#42;Retro games are rubbish, with most only entertaining for a nostalgic few minutes. Elite, however, is still relevant today. The 20-year-old space sim remains the benchmark for galactic trading games.The latest challenger is X2: The Threat - a title with looks to die for. Gorgeous graphics aside, this is an amazingly complex space epic that simulates an economy ripe for player influence. Starting off with an underpowered craft, your aim is to do pretty much what you want. Players can immerse themselves in the minutiae of trade routes, building up their fleet and business, or adopt a laissez-faire attitude and become a freeloading pirate.There are moments early on, as you build your empire, that are immensely satisfying. Finding a lucrative trade route or buying a new ship certainly keeps you playing. But problems aren't many parsecs away. The interface is appalling, requiring dextrous use of the keyboard to do relatively simple tasks. Combat is hit and miss, and a joystick is necessary to get a real feel. Then there is the clich&#233;d plot and flat voice acting, and that's before I've even mentioned that your character is called Julian.But the main problem with X2 is the sheer amount of effort required to get anywhere. It takes hours to make even a small dent in the game world. But those with the time and inclination will discover that X2 makes a gallant, if flawed, attempt to knock Elite from its pedestal.Greg HowsonDelta Force - Black Hawk Down: Team SabrePC, Ritual/Novalogic, &#163;19.99&#42;&#42;&#42;Despite its dubious taste, Black Hawk Down was a cracking little game - full of sound and fury. This add-on loses the original connection to Somalia in favour of two new single-player campaigns set in Columbia and the Persian Gulf. You get a handful of tasty new weapons and a new character (an SAS agent) to join the Ranger and Delta Force, but the new scenarios expose rather than limit the original game's failings.Put simply, sheer weight of enemy firepower cannot conceal Team Sabre's rudimentary AI. Armed with a good sniper rifle and a generous amount of ammo, most of the 10 missions can be tackled with impunity. Enemy soldiers rarely do more than duck, and as their weapons are incapable of penetrating buildings or trees, you can hang back and pick them off.This is the best strategy, as your teammates have a habit of either shooting you or each other in the back. Those spoiled by the free-form levels of Hidden &amp; Dangerous 2 or Call of Duty are in for a rude awakening; stray too far from the recommended path and the mission abruptly ends. Team Sabre's saving grace is the selection of online extras. With an impressive 40 new multiplayer maps, Novalogic's servers should be buzzing for weeks.Mike AnderieszKill.switchPlayStation2, Namco/Sony, &#163;29.99&#42;&#42;&#42;Kill.switch is a first-person shoot- em-up that commendably adds up to more than the sum of its often mediocre parts. Graphically, for example, it is deeply unimpressive, it barely even bothers with a plot, it has no two-player mode and is too short. But while it lasts, it provides plenty of great, high-octane action, and an imaginative gameplay twist fools you into believing that you are playing a game which is mildly inventive.Kill.switch blurs the boundary between first and third-person action by letting you crouch behind objects that can provide cover, or lean out from corners to shoot. When safely ensconced behind your barrier, you can either stick your gun above the parapet and shoot semi-blind or stand up briefly to gain accuracy. As you progress through the game, you acquire some impressive weaponry, which must be employed in an increasingly tactical manner.Plentiful first-aid kits reinforce the arcade-style feel, but ammunition conservation becomes increasingly important. Kill.switch's unusual gameplay - in which you are constantly having to run 50 yards, dive for cover and work out where your enemies are and how to take them out - proves to be addictive.Steve Boxer
A Californian teenager discovered that he was apparently abducted as a toddler after he spotted a picture of himself on a missing children's website.The 17-year-old, who has not been named, was surfing the web when he stumbled across a picture of himself as a three-year-old. It was attached to the story of a child whose mother   kidnapped him from his father's home in Canada 14 years ago.According to the US marshall's office he then told a teacher at his school in the San Fernando Valley, which sparked a federal investigation leading to the arrest of his mother last week. Giselle-Marie Goudreault, 45, was being held without bail until Canadian authorities could extradite her on child abduction charges, while the boy was put into foster care. He was said to be extremely distraught by his mother's arrest and tried to comfort her while she was being led away.Meanwhile his father, Rodney Steinmann, has asked that the boy be released into his custody. "A conversation with him is a long time overdue. It would be a relief to ask him if he's OK," he told the Edmonton Sun.The youth's grandparents on his father's side were "thrilled" at the prospect of getting to know him, the Washington Post reported. Berni Steinmann told the paper: "We are happy something is finally happening. My son has been worried for the last 14 years. We'd like to give the young fellow all the support we can."Los Angeles deputy marshall Jimell Griffin told the Post: "The father still has legal custody based on a 1989 court order." He had learned almost a year ago from the Royal Canadian mounted police that his son might have been in the Los Angeles area. But it was not until the teenager came across his photo and told his teacher that US authorities got involved, Mr Griffin said.Ms Goudreault had been granted only weekend visits when she abducted her son, who was then living with his father in Red Deer, Alberta. During one of those visits she took him and fled to Mexico and then to Los Angeles, while the Canadian authorities issued a warrant for her arrest."They were taking her child away and she did what she had to do," said Melissa Goudreault, her sister-in-law in Red Deer."The family is behind her and is trying to raise money for her legal defence."
One of the smartest features to debut on a mobile phone last year was the slide-down keypad on Siemens' tasteful SL55. Now LG has fitted the feature on its G7050. Siemens incorporated the sliding keypad to reduce the length of the phone, but LG has employed the pull-down facility as a way of increasing the size of the screen. So in comparison with other camera phones, the G7050's 65k colour, 120 x 160 screen looks like a real winner.LG has made an effort with the camera, too. It can take pictures up to VGA standard and includes a 4x zoom. Other facilities include voice recognition, Java and colour screen WAP. Disappointingly there's no POP3 email, and, while the phone has infrared, it doesn't have Bluetooth. LG also loses points for a confusing combination of a four-way rocker and two soft keys, which makes it tricky to navigate the icon-based interface.While not as endearing as LG's quirky 7100, the G7050's neat design and strong features list means it should do well.www.lge.co.uk
Don't forget TiVoRe: Ashley Norris's article on Sky+ (Online on the web, February 14): another product, TiVo, released in 1999, has most of the features you are wanting. The only drawback is that they were released into the marketplace too early and did not sell well, due to high prices and customers not really knowing what they could do.To sell off the units, shops sold them for as little as &#163;99. Several astute people bought them at that price and also recommended them to most of their family! Lots of unscrupulous people also bought them and then resold them on eBay.  Latest prices are upwards of &#163;200.But why is TiVo better? Well, to begin with, TiVo is able to record in several different bitrates, while its software is Linux-based and can have extra features added through software written by its community of users who often lurk in the forums found atwww.tivocommunity.com.These enthusiasts have written programs ranging from software to allow bigger disk drives, to a web-based front end. This allows you to search the TiVo's guide and set programmes to record, or delete programmes from an internet browser and more recently from a wap phone. Look here for more info:www.9thtee.com/tivoupgrades.htm.If you know someone with a TiVo, have a play on it. You might like it... and let's face it, I don't really want to be giving Rupert Murdoch any more of my money. Do you?Paul GordonLancsMyDoomedYou really missed the point with your MyDoom article (February 5). The whole point of MyDoom is that it is an email attachment. In order to be infected, you have to be stupid enough to deliberately run a file which (whether obfuscated by a double extension or a zip file or both) is quite evidently a malicious file from someone you probably don't know, and with a subject of "Failed" or "Test" or "Error" or something similar.You focused on the anti-virus products. Well, not only did they completely fail to prevent or contain the infection (as usual), they subsequently flooded the internet with "You seem to have sent a virus" messages - to all the innocent people whose addresses were randomly spoofed in the infection emails.Instead of promoting useless solutions, give some useful advice:&#183;Don't run attachments, unless you're sure what it is and who sent it&#183;Patch your computer every few months, or at least yearly. Buy magazines with service packs if you're on dial-up, or cherry pick from the critical updates onwww.windowsupdate.com.&#183;Consider using non-Microsoft products for your email and browsing - like Thunderbird and Firebird fromhttp://mozilla.org. If you could stop promoting pricey but ineffective anti-virus products and start handing out free advice, you could make the net a better place.Stuart DunkeldBrightonBouncing spamI too received thousands of copies of MyDoom and its variants, and that was annoying. Even more annoying, however, was the torrent of automatic "You have sent us a virus" emails. Some of them were faked by MyDoom, but most were sent by automatic mailserver filters.They're spam too - sent out automatically, unwanted, and an annoyance to the recipient. There's no excuse for this. Everyone in IT should   know by now that modern viruses can spoof the sender's address, so either make the autoresponder smart enough to trace the real IP address of the sender, or (preferably) stop those autoresponders altogether.Ben CooperGlasgowLinux copyrightsIn the Office politics article (February 12) Graham Stewart appeared to state that software like Linux has "no copyright restrictions". This is categorically not true. Linux is licensed under the GPL which does indeed impose copyright restrictions. Under the GPL, anyone who redistributes the software, with or without changes, must pass along the freedom to further copy and change it.I think that what he meant to say was that GPL software has no licensing charge - that is, you can use it for any purpose for free. The difference is subtle yet extremely important.For a good exposition of the issues read the Free Software Foundation's article atwww.gnu.org/copyleft/copyleft.html.David HeffernanLancasterFree thinking"The criterion for judging Microsoft's conduct should be: does the product benefit the consumer or not?" (Feedback, February 12).Never done much for me. I have had no need for Word when I can edit text and compose documents with many other packages (TeX, FrameMaker, InterLeaf or ClarisWorks). For programming, any Unix or Linux variant is the only choice.Having just installed the latest Mac OS X version, I begin to see how I can be creative. With Microsoft, thinking can be constrained, in the office, home and studio.  "Think Microsoft" - doesn't have any pizazz, does it?Gordon JolyLondon
Bahn conversionEaster holiday-booking time is fast approaching, and no matter how many budget fares the airlines throw at you, there is nothing that can beat the romance of travelling by train. A shining testament to an increasingly united Europe, the German Railways site (available in English, German, French and Italian) will provide you with every last piece of information you could ever need for planning your great railway journey, wherever you desire to go - its timetabular tentacles extend to Great Britain, mainland Europe, Scandinavia, Russia and some parts of Asia. Delightfully clear and simple to use, the itineraries can be printed out and are wonderfully detailed, showing information on types of train, onboard services, border crossings and intermediate stops. I've spent ages trying to catch it out, and I've failed. Without a doubt one of the most impressive and useful sites on the web.http://reiseauskunft.bahn.deBlogs for dogsIt was probably only a matter of time, really. Two of the prevailing memes on the internet of recent times - that of the if-you're-my-friend's-friend-then-you-can-be-my-friend type site, and the seemingly never-ending phalanx of websites with names ending in -ster - have come joyfully together and spawned Dogster, the first community site for dogs. Growing at a rate of around 150 new members a day, at the time of writing Dogster boasted 5,000 pooches, each with a little homepage of its own (an alarming number of which are written in the first-person dog-voice), complete with picture, a biography, list of likes and dislikes and a facility for linking to the pages of his or her "puppy pals" elsewhere on the site. Even if you don't have a dog, the pictures are cute.www.dogster.comThe whole sleuthShould you find yourself lost for words, you could do worse than take a look at The Word Spy, which describes itself as "devoted to lexpionage, the sleuthing of new words and phrases". The site doesn't quite have the authority and gravitas of the OED, but it won't list words unless they have appeared multiple times in print or on the web. It is a mine of Zeitgeisty linguistic gems, which if you haven't found yourself saying already, you most likely very soon will. Recently added concepts begging to be dropped into conversation include mucus trooper (n. An employee with a cold or the flu who insists on showing up for work; also mucus troop  v.), shouting head (n. A loud and aggressive person, particularly one who is a television pundit or commentator. -  adj.) and Seabiscuit candidate (n. A political candidate who comes from behind to win an election).www.wordspy.comFree booksRead It Swap It is a new service for bored book lovers, which enables you to swap read books for unread ones. Browse the collection of available tomes, choose one you want and the system then alerts the swapper that they have a potential swap-ee; if the swapper can find a book on your up-for-the-swapping list that they like, the exchange is on. At this point the system will inform each party of the other's address, and you sort out the posting of the books. In order to address concerns about swappers not fulfilling their promises, the site employs a rating system similar to that used on eBay so that you can see how reliable other users have found your swapping-partner before making a decision. The matchmaking service is free until April, when &#163;1 will be charged per swap.www.readitswapit.co.ukMore free booksScience-fiction writer Cory Doctorow has released just his second novel, Eastern Standard Tribe. Nothing unusual in that, but what singles Doctorow out for special mention is that as well as the book being available in bookshops, it is also available to download - for free. And you have the author's active encouragement to copy it and pass it on. If you then feel so moved, you can invest in a hard copy and then Doctorow will get his royalties. This method was tried with his first novel, Down and Out In The Magic Kingdom, which despite being downloaded hundreds of thousands of times sells offline very nicely too. Doctorow has relaxed his copyright licence on Down and Out still further, and you can now use it for any non-commercial adaptation that you'd like.http://craphound.com/estNew &amp; notedStunning free icons and desktop images to downloadwww.pixelgirlpresents.comSix of the best:  Time-wasting games (heavy on the Flash)Fling the Cow: a classicwww.flingthecow.comBookWorm: chain-wordswww.popcap.comYeti Sports: featuring the much-memed "Smack the Pingu"http://yeti.e-medien.comGridlock: visual-spatial skills to the fore -www.corwin.ca/gridlock/gridlock.htmlFowl Words: Scrabble with chickenswww.miniclip.com/fowlwords.htm
A method for growing forests of miniature carbon pillars could lead to a new generation of lithium batteries, to power everything from mobile phones to laptop computers.Normal mobile phone batteries generate current when lithium ions flow between two terminals. The new technique boosts the power they generate by creating an array of multiple terminals out of carbon rods, and floating a sea of lithium ions between them.The method, developed by physicist Marc Madou of the University of California, Irvine, and colleagues, crams hundreds of batteries into the space usually taken up by a single battery cell.Madou's co-worker, Chimlei Wang, made the new batteries possible by figuring out how to grow the tiny rods. Wang succeeded by adopting a plastic polymer that is used to help build computer chips and hardens when it comes into contact with light. She created neat rows of upright rods by illuminating the polymer through a mask peppered with holes, and then applying a chemical that etched away the unreacted polymer. Wang then cooked the rods at about 900&deg;C in an oxygen-free atmosphere. This burns off atoms such as hydrogen from within the polymer, leaving behind a shrunken version of the plastic. The resulting array had thousands of tiny carbon rods, each less than half a millimetre high. Wang's breakthrough, says Madou, was to find a polymer that could survive the heating process without falling apart.To complete the battery, Wang and Madou poured lithium ions into the space between the rods and wired lines of them together so that alternative rows acted as the positive and negative terminals of a battery. They have submitted their work to the Journal of the Electrochemical Society.
The internet reaches about 60% of the population, and many of those offline are perfectly happy to stay there. This represents a problem for electronic government, particularly as non-users are disproportionately elderly and poor: those who make the heaviest use of government services.So digital television looks like an attractive alternative: 47% of homes had access in the third quarter of last year, according to the regulator Ofcom, and numbers are rising fast. Sky has 7.2m satellite subscribers, and it aims to reach 8m by 2005. The subscription-free Freeview terrestrial service has gone from 800,000 using the ITV Digital service it took over in October 2002 to 1.5m last summer to a likely 3m by the end of next month. Cable firms bring in a further 2.2m digital TV homes.Technically, at least one such system is available to 99.4% of households, according to a BBC and Independent Television Commission report from April last year, which suggests that digital TV will be used by 58% to 78% of households in 2007. Eventually, all viewers will have to use it, as the government plans to turn off analogue TV transmissions by 2010.To some extent, digital TV reaches the groups that the internet doesn't. According to the BBC/ITC report, C2 (skilled manual worker) households are the social group most likely to be users: the professional AB group are most likely to be internet users. And Freeview is attracting senior citizens: last June, the BBC said that about 40% of buyers were over 55.So the government has been testing digital TV as a way to deliver information. The Pensions Service ran a pilot from May 2002 to March 2003   on satellite and cable. Users felt that the service, which provided information and limited interactive facilities such as ordering leaflets and email inquiries, was a positive development, although some expressed concerns about the security of the system, as well as using the television - normally used to entertain several people - for administering their finances. There were also complaints that interactive services are often slow and prone to crashing. There have been other trials: Hertfordshire county council started a pilot on NTL's local digital cable network as long ago as December 2001.But the technology will get its biggest group of public-sector users this summer, with the opening of NHS Direct Digital TV. This &#163;15m interactive service will be similar to those provided by the BBC, with teletext-style information bolstered by images and some video content, rather than programmes. It will offer a directory of NHS providers such as GPs and dentists, a database of ailments as well as advice for self-care and healthy living, along the lines of the NHS Direct website atwww.nhsdirect.nhs. Eventually, the Department of Health hopes it will accept repeat prescription requests.NHS Direct plans to appear on all three of the digital TV platforms, although it will start on just one and has given itself until the end of the year to add the others. The need to distribute services as widely as possible may prove a challenge, if the experience of the BBC is anything to go by."The technology is different, and the approach of the technology is different," says Richard Cooper, head of technology for BBC new media. "Open TV &#91;used by Sky Digital&#93; allows you to program at a very low   level: you can write programs with very complex behaviour. Liberate &#91;used by cable&#93; is closer to a web browser, but with specific extensions to support TV. MHEG-5 &#91;for digital terrestrial&#93; was designed for simple multimedia presentation on TV screens."However, the situation is improving. "The complexity of authoring for such different platforms means that various solutions are being developed that enable you, to some extent, to author a service once but publish to all platforms," says Cooper. However, "for more complex or cutting-edge services, at the moment, you still have to build it three times".The BBC's text services were designed separately for each digital TV platform, Cooper says. "As far as possible we provide the same experience on each platform. In practice there are differences: on cable there is more content, on satellite there is more video, and on Freeview - on more modern set-top boxes - it is very fast."Another difference between the three channels is the availability of a return path, something required for true interactivity. This is easiest on cable, with plenty of capacity in both directions, and possible with Sky, as users are meant to leave their boxes plugged into the phone line, providing a narrowband connection. But there is at present no equivalent for terrestrial television.Accessibility of digital TV is another problem, with a Department of Trade and Industry report from last September finding that 7.1% of the population are likely to have difficulty using digital TV and recommends training to help set up and use the services; more hardware that combines set-top boxes with TVs; and better-designed remote controls.
Computers like things precise: on or off, one or zero, yes or no. The real world is rarely precise or exact; information is partial and uncertain and people make judgment calls. Artificial intelligence is about making computers act more like humans and you might be surprised at how many places it's showing up - from cameras and fridges to spam filters and Microsoft's forthcoming BizTalk Server 2004.If AI makes you think of robots and artificial brains, think again. Researchers are still arguing about whether a computer could actually think or just respond as if it can, but the results of their research are too useful to stay in the lab. Software can act in ways we think of as intelligent, can deliver results we'd only expect from a human, and can let us work in ways that feel more natural.Most AI is used for very specific solutions. Computer games often use AI for opponents, or for modelling things that are easier to demonstrate than to explain - like driving a racing car. Many electronics devices use fuzzy logic for dealing with complex situations or values that aren't quite one thing or the other: whether it's light or dark, hot or cold, wet or dry.Fuzzy logic controls the temperature in fridges and rice cookers, the braking system on the Tokyo bullet train and the focus and light metering in digital cameras. Neural networks let computer programs deal quickly with uncertain situations where there's a lot of information and getting a good answer now is more important than getting the perfect answer too late - like the handwriting recognition in Tablet PCs.Other traditional areas of AI have already become mainstream, like spell checking, email rules and voice dialling. Not all the techniques are new: Bayesian statistics were developed in the 17th century by an English minister called Thomas Bayes who was either trying to prove the existence of God or find a way to cheat at cards. He came up with rules for combining probabilities; using new evidence to make your results more accurate.Bayesian statistics drive the answer wizard in Office (and the much-loathed office assistant, Clippy), the search tool in Windows XP's Help and Support Centre and the majority of commercial spam filters. Microsoft's Commerce Server   2000 uses them to suggest products you might like to buy based on what you've bought from the same website before, fast enough to include the list on the webpage without you noticing the wait. Microsoft is also using Bayesian techniques for a notification system that will be able to decide whether to suggest that someone who wants to get in touch with you send an email, pick up the phone or use an instant message, based on what it knows about where you are, what you're doing, how you like to be contacted and how you've talked to them before.And while the tools in the next version of BizTalk might look like more complex versions of the wizards that help you create rules   to filter your email into folders or build a smart playlist in iTunes, the flexibility that lets you describe exactly how you do things in your business owes a lot to AI.When you get turned down for a new credit card or have to confirm you made a purchase, it's an AI database called an expert system scoring you down or spotting what could be fraud. When you use software to prepare your tax return, AI-style rules work out which sections you need to fill in.So far, building expert systems has only been worthwhile for the biggest businesses working in areas that are either esoteric enough that there aren't many human experts available, or where decisions need to   be made in high volumes in a hurry. But the tools in BizTalk make it much easier for you to build a system to automate something you're the expert in - your own business.Most businesses automated tasks that were easy to move to a computer years ago, but automating workflow has been harder. Not only are businesses processes complicated and poorly understood in many companies, but computerised systems can be very rigid with no room for coping when things don't go to plan: if the credit card company accidentally includes your postcode twice in your address, a simplistic automatic checker won't let your order through.BizTalk splits the development up to make things more flexible. The Visio Orchestration Designer tools used to describe a business process are simple enough for the business analyst: you can use standard business terms such as creating a purchase order and waiting for your supplier. A developer can take that diagram and connect it up to the business systems that do the work and the XML schema that control the format of the data going back and forth.The ways your business works don't change very often, but the choices you make about them do: as the value of the dollar drops you might decide to set a larger minimum order value for dollar pricing. Splitting those business rules out from the business process and the business applications give you the flexibility you need. And the orchestration engine at the heart of BizTalk is completely generalised; it doesn't care whether you make hats or sell bananas: it just follows your rules so you can make it work in ways that make sense for people.
Five years ago, "unified messaging" was the mantra of technologists who believed they could deliver an all-singing service that could handle all your incoming voice, text, fax and email. The nightmare of hunting down messages on different media would be a thing of the past. But the dream faded with the realisation that it was an idea looking for a problem. People just got used to handling different forms of media, and at the end of the day the technology just wasn't simple or cheap enough anyway.But now the idea is having a kind of rebirth - this time in reverse - with SMS text messaging at the centre of the action. It works like this: you see an advert or read an article about a company or product and you want to learn more. The information contains a text message reply code with options allowing you to receive information sent to an email, a fax, voicemail, or even back to your mobile phone.Currently the market for such services is driven by relatively small firms seeking to develop unique niche services. One example is a company called iTagg, which hopes its "two-way texting" service will do away with the need for business cards. It allows you to buy a personal short code and keyword that you can give to people   so that when they text you with your keyword (such as "Paul") they receive your full personal or business details. The beauty is that the reply text can be changed via a dedicated web page as often as you want, and it can also be modified so that replies are sent to email addresses instead of back to mobiles.Steve Proctor, chief executive of iTagg, says he wants short codes to become as common as domain names: "We started in the domain name business and there is no reason why it shouldn't be the same with everyone wanting their own short code." For individuals, the service starts at around &#163;10 a year with receivers paying 25p per message. Alternatively you can pay in advance for texts to be sent at 7p each.Although primarily aimed at consumers, the service clearly has business applications. iTagg gives the example of an estate agency that wishes to offer a reply service for each property advertised. It purchases a bundle of short codes that allow prospective buyers to receive house details by text or email wherever they see the estate agent's signs. One further advantage is that all texts are logged and could be followed up with personal calls and therefore support traditional, phone-based marketing.Steve Almond, chief executive of   SMS firm Txt, says the attraction for companies is that it solves the problem of deciding how to communicate with customers: "The headache for any business is to exploit every channel, be it voice, text, email or fax. It's difficult for a small company but an enormous problem for larger firms."His company offers a service called TxtOrder that even extends to allowing bill payments with confirmations. The service is being used to provide information, newsletter options, competition entries, callback and payment services for customers such as George Wimpey, Barclaycard and Pirelli. For payment services, customers need to register in advance."Customers will always want a choice of how information is provided; the trick is to give them the choice and offer them the simplest way to ask for information or make a payment," says Almond.Few would argue with his claim that customers are increasingly sick of getting stuck in voice response systems that take forever to navigate. Topcall, a company specialising in what it calls unified communication, says that the market for such services is very diverse. Darren Saunders, Topcall's business development manager, says: "There are endless options and variations, and many start-up firms are looking at developing ser vices for particular niches such as healthcare, distribution, finance and property. All are driven by the desire to automate where possible."For example, Topcall is developing a service that allows hospitals to send SMS texts or automated phone calls reminding patients of forthcoming appointments. The receiver has the option to confirm, reject or arrange another appointment. Because many patients do not have mobile phones, the automated voice option can also be delivered in a range of languages or dialects. Saunders admits it's not foolproof: "Hospitals lose millions of pounds each year through missed appointments. This won't do away with the problem overnight, but it will significantly reduce the losses."Meanwhile, text to email is being trailed by Kodak to help raise awareness of digital cameras. Its advertising invites consumers to text a shortcode to receive a beginner's guide to photography by email. Kodak says that an enquiry-response service that does away with the need to take telephone requests, but at the same time collates all the customer information, is a major attraction.The market for such services may be small at the moment, but if these trials go down well with consumers, we can expect to see many more SMS short codes appearing in the press.
