Who can forget that beautiful scene in ET where Elliot's BMX floats past a large moon, defying gravity with grace and serenity, the boys legs peddling, his alien pal in the basket at the front. Well now you can sort of recreate that in Trials Evolution – but with less grace and more likelihood of horrendous crashes into rocky outcrops. Due out later this month, Origin of Pain is a DLC pack for the wonderful motorbike simulation, and its major addition is BMX.Yes, players will be able to attack a series of swooping, jump-riddled tracks on a cool white BMX, with mag wheels and a furiously peddling rider. We tried two of the new courses: Flow Like Water, which takes players through a mountainous area of the island, past waterfalls and beneath low hanging tree branches; and Cauldron Trail, a fiery romp through a lava filled volcano. The bike is agile and light, which means the handling is super sensitive, with the slightest pump of acceleration sending the front wheel flying into the air – deft, subtle balance is a key requirement, even more than the friskiest motorbikes. It's fun though, as the bikes are also easier to correct than their motorised cousins, so you can pull back from the craziest wheelies, and also stop on a six pence after hurtling down a sheer cliff face.Set on a new island location (which at 4km x 4km is twice the size of the environment in Evolution), there are 36 new tracks to try out, making excellent use of the varied, mountainous environment. As well as tropical rainforest areas, there's a circus on the island - and a landing strip. Red Lynx has also added a load of extra rider outfits and head gear, including deliciously ostentatious Roman centurion and astronaut helmets.A bunch of new track editor features have been included, too. The key additions are the one hundred new obstacles including some super huge set-pieces such as jet planes and boats, giving avid Trials designers some intriguing new scenic possibilities; there's even a cannon that can shoot riders across the circuit. Oh and there's even a grappling hook, allowing bikers to swing their way through certain sections.Several of the fresh circuits show off these features rather nicely, with one set amid a Lost-style crash site, complete with tricky jumps between sections of fuselage. There are also 30 new special effects ranging from fairy glitter dust to new smoke swirls – for the real completists.It's a generous selection box for Trials enthusiasts who have played the original circuits to death. And as there hasn't been a decent BMX title since the Dave Mirra years, a whole new audience is about to be lured right in. Indeed, with Trials Evolution: Gold Edition coming to PC soon (combining all the tracks from both Trails HD and Trials: Evolution - 129 in total), Red Lynx is determined to trap as many people as possible in its domain of speed, gravity and momentum.
The key statement from Nokia'sWindows Phone 8 launch in New Yorkdidn't come from the company's chief executive Stephen Elop, but from his guest, Microsoft boss Steve Ballmer.He described Windows as "the largest single opportunity available for software developers today", touting the prospect of 400m devices running Windows 8 and Windows Phone 8 by this time next year.But here's the statement: "The next app developer to hit it really, really big will be a developer on Windows."In a nutshell, this is the dream that Microsoft and Nokia must successfully pitch to developers. It's not the only factor determining the prospects of both companies' smartphone ambitions, but it's one of the key pillars that will – to borrow the metaphor from Elop's famous memo – set their platform alight. In a positive or negative sense.The smartphone market is a war of hardware-software-apps ecosystems. A keynote cliche, nowadays, but no less true because of it. The mantra needs qualification though.It's not enough to just have lots of apps. There need to be lots of apps making good money for their developers. And that doesn't just mean money being paid by the platform owner to persuade those developers to support their devices.Platform owners are selling the dream of being "the next app developer to hit it really really big", which is why Apple knows exactly what it's doing with its regular announcements of developer payout milestones –$5bn by June 2012.A few iOS developers are striking it really, really rich, and there's a growing middle-class who are building sustainable businesses. But most iOS developers are losing money and/or generating miserable levels of downloads (the and/or qualifier is due to hobbyist developers making apps in their spare time).Apple does such a good job selling the dream, that many people don't talk about the whole losing-money thing – or at least push it to the back of their minds. And so lots of good apps still launch on iOS alone, even if they have porting ambitions in mind for other platforms.Google doesn't really sell the business dream for Android – its keynotes tend to focus on the cool tech, although it has made big steps forward in improving its Google Play store and rolling out in-app purchases.That, plus the sheer scale of Android's1m daily device activations, at least makes it easier for developers to sell the Android dream to themselves, and bring their apps to the platform.With an estimated640m active iOS and Android devicesaround the world, any other platform coming through has to do a spectacular job of selling the dream to developers.Nokia chief executive Stephen Elop on-stage in New York. Photo: Stuart DredgeWitness Amazon'srecent announcementtrumpeting the success of in-app purchases in games distributed through its Android Appstore, complete with a quote from developer Frenzoo saying it helped "our apps monetize 50% better than they do on other platforms we're on".Witness also RIM's dream-selling – or nightmare-dispelling, if we're being harder on the company – promise to developers that if they make apps for its BlackBerry 10 platform that generate more than $1,000 but less than $10,000 in sales, it willpay the difference to top their payout upto the latter figure.Which brings us back to Windows Phone, Microsoft and Nokia. Windows Phone 7 already has a good number of slick, well-designed apps that make good use of the OS' key features.What's far more thin on the ground, though, are case studies of developers making good money from those apps. When Italked to five in June 2012, four of them declined to even provide download figures, let alone revenues.Case studies of developers making money sell the dream best of all, and Ballmer's words at the Lumia event only underscored the fact that – in the mobile world at least – the last several dozen developers who "hit it really, really big" were making iOS apps.That's the big challenge for Microsoft and Nokia. Ballmer's 400m-devices-in-the-next-year figure is one clarion call for developers, but it may fall on deaf ears for mobile developers who aren't looking to extend onto PCs, which will make up the largest portion of the 400m devices.Nokia's launch sold the dream, a bit. The two new Lumia phones – the flagship 920 in particular – look very good. But we don't know their exact launch date and rollout plans, their prices or the level of support from mobile operators.The latter is a really important point, because the Windows Phone 8 ecosystem will struggle to be lucrative for app developers until it's Windows Phones that are being recommended rather than Android handsets when people wander into a shop or ring their operator for an upgrade that isn't an iPhone.Much remains mysterious about Windows Phone 8, too, although Microsoft is promising a proper reveal of its new features in the next few weeks. Developers will be all ears, but many will hold off until then on committing significant resources to Windows Phone 8 in 2013 and beyond.These aren't necessarily criticisms of the Lumia launch event, but a matter-of-fact explanation of why it won't have moved the needle for many developers further than Nokia's efforts already have.Elop said during the event that having passed 100,000 apps, Windows Phone is "growing three times faster than before Nokia joined" on that score, and the company has a growing stable of well-known brands and entertainment companies making apps for its devices.Here's the thing: most app developers I meet aren't fanboys, supporting platforms based on their love or hate of Google, Apple, Microsoft or RIM. They're pragmatists who want to do good work, and make money from it.From what we've seen so far, they can certainly do good work on Windows Phone. The next few months will be crucial for Microsoft and Nokia to come up with the goods to provide proof – or at least a convincing dream – of the money-making.If they deliver on their promises, maybe we'll see that really, really big hit app on a Windows Phone in 2013.This article was amended on 6 September 2012 to correct Google's Android daily activations figure from 1bn to 1m. Android is doing well, but not quite that well...
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAmazon takes on the high end - Introducing the new Kindle Fire HD family &gt;&gt; Business Wire$199 now gets you the world's most-advanced 7" tablet, with a stunning custom HD display, the fastest Wi-Fi, exclusive Dolby audio, powerful processor and graphics engine, and 16 GB of storage--all backed by the world's best content ecosystem, the best cross-platform interoperability, and the best customer service$299 now gets you all the same advanced technology on a stunning 8.9" large-screen 1920x1200 HD display with 254 ppi and a powerful OMAP4 4470 processor and graphics engine$499 now gets you the same high-end large-screen HD tablet, 32 GB of storage, plus ultra-fast 4G LTE wireless powered by the latest generation 4G chipset, and Amazon's groundbreaking $49.99 one year 4G LTE data package--customers save hundreds of dollars in the first year compared to other 4G tabletsAnalyst Michael Gartenberg's comment: "Android tablets are on notice."The challenge of brushing your teeth in space &gt;&gt; GizmodoGizmodo has a contributing astronaut guest blogger:Still have your toothbrush between a couple of your fingers? Hopefully yes. Remove your drink bag, and with one thumb, flip open the straw clamp (which keeps liquid from seeping out of the bag), and gently squeeze out a bead of water onto your toothbrush, watch it get sucked into the bristles. Hold the straw of the drink bag in your teeth, and with one hand, fix the straw clamp in place, and replace the bag behind the bungee.Almost all of the rest is fairly straightforward.Comments are the radioactive waste of the Web &gt;&gt; Telegraph BlogsMic Wright:First! This is a piece about internet comments which means, inevitably, that some readers are already at the bottom of the page in the hope of being the first to offer their view/mention that they dislike my byline photo/indignantly ask why this has been published in the first place. If ignorance was an Olympic event, the heats would be held in the comment sections of national newspapers.This piece is currently approaching 1500 comments.What if you could share only 1 thing a day on the internet? &gt;&gt; BranchInteresting question.Why Amazon's tablet will challenge Apple in a way that Google cannot &gt;&gt; Guardian TechnologyFrom September 2011:Amazon, by building its own app store, has the chance to overturn the established order; it's the first proper challenge that the iPad will face in terms of a rival that can offer not just a product, but also something to fill the product. If it really succeeds, it could even draw developers out of the wider Android Market and into the Amazon app store exclusively. Once that starts to happen, Google will have a dilemma: is it good or bad if more of the money being made out of Android app sales is going to someone else? Will Amazon lock out rival tablet makers such as Samsung from its app store? (I expect so.) Is that good or bad for Android on tablets? What should Google do?And there's Google's problem. Its relationship with its users is too like Microsoft's. Instead it needs to be more like Amazon. But competing there would cause problems too. Android for tablet sits on the horns of a dilemma: what it needs to succeed - a content retailer about to challenge Apple - might be what kills off rival makers.Amazon's Jeff Bezos positions Kindles against iPads &gt;&gt; AllThingsDPost-Kindle Fire HD launch:But beyond the specs and stats Bezos trotted out today, his most interesting compare-and-contrast exercise was rhetorical: Amazon, he spelled out, isn't in the gadget business, but the retail business.In his words: "We want to make money when people use our devices, not when they buy our devices."That is: Amazon is selling Kindles and Kindle Fires so it can sell more stuff to consumers. That could be by selling them more media, like ebooks and videos, or by getting them to buy more physical goods, via Amazon Prime. Or it could be by advertising, which was also curiously absent from Bezos's pitch today.OIS on Nokia Lumia 920 &gt;&gt; YouTubeNokia showing its image stabilisation. Honestly.An apology is due &gt;&gt; Nokia ConversationsThe official Nokia blog:We're excited about the Lumia 920 and the ground-breaking PureView imaging capabilities we announced today.In an effort to demonstrate the benefits of optical image stabilization (which eliminates blurry images and improves pictures shot in low light conditions), we produced a video that simulates what we will be able to deliver with OIS.Of course, hindsight is 20/20, but we should have posted a disclaimer stating this was a representation of OIS only. This was not shot with a Lumia 920. At least, not yet. We apologize for the confusion we created.One suspects cock-up rather than conspiracy.Positioning Lumia &gt;&gt; asymcoUS smartphone penetration has hit 50%, according to ComScore numbers. So:The changing character of competition will need to be reflected in product strategies. Non-consumption is typically an easier competitor to beat with features. Switching users from a comparable product is harder and may require pricing pressure. To solve this in a time of transition, new products will have to split into a set offered to new users and another set offered to switch users.You can see the pressure of this on the Windows Phone platform most of all. As a late comer, does the Lumia range from Nokia fit the bill as targeting non-consumers or switchers?In other words, has the brand been positioned as a "better" smartphone or as a "good enough" smartphone? It matters because the "good enough" position has been held by Android overall while the "better" position has been held by iPhone. However, not exclusively. We've seen "better" positioning from Samsung's Galaxy S and Verizon's Droid brand and "good enough" positioning from the older variants of iPhones.Samsung sells 20m Galaxy S III Units &gt;&gt; Sammy HubSamsung has confirmed that the global sales of their Galaxy S III flagship phone has reached 20m units. The phone reached the sales milestone in just 100 days and averaged about 200,000 units every day, making it the fastest selling phone in Samsung's history.Samsung has sold about 6m units in Europe, 4.5m in Asia, 4m in North America and 2.5m in South Korea.Faint quibble is that the "sale" is to carriers, so is what analysts call shipments (since we're not certain they've all been activated). But still, that's a lot of phones.Seven lessons learned while building Reddit to 270m page views a month &gt;&gt; High ScalabilityThe essence of this lesson is: don't worry about the schema.[Reddit's builders] used to spend a lot of time worrying about the database, keeping everthing nice and normalized. You shouldn't have to worry about the database. Schema updates are very slow when you get bigger. Adding a column to 10m rows takes locks and doesn't work. They used replication for backup and for scaling. Schema updates and maintaining replication is a pain. They would have to restart replication and could go a day without backups. Deployments are a pain because you have to orchestrate how new software and new database upgrades happen together.Instead, they keep a Thing Table and a Data Table. Everything in Reddit is a Thing: users, links, comments, subreddits, awards, etc. Things keep common attribute like up/down votes, a type, and creation date. The Data table has three columns: thing id, key, value. There's a row for every attribute. There's a row for title, url, author, spam votes, etc. When they add new features they didn't have to worry about the database anymore.Two tables for the whole of Reddit. That's Third Normal Form and decades of teaching about database optimisation thrown out the window.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Hurray, at last, it's Friday! Tell us your gaming plans for the weekend!
Football Manager 2013 has finally been officially announced. The latest edition of the long-running management simulation will be released this November and alongside predictable updates to the match engine, media interaction and multiplayer features, it will boast a completely new mode: Football Manager Classic.Aimed at footie fans who no longer have the time to indulge in mammoth sessions of virtual management, FMC is a condensed version of the game that automates much of the backroom detail and allows players to race through a season in around eight hours. You still get to sort all the on-pitch tactics and pinpoint transfer targets, but AI assistants take care of the media and training.The new mode can be played in two ways, as an open season or in challenge mode, which provides players with a series of specific objectives such as saving a struggling side from relegation within four months. It's an idea imported from the successful smartphone versions of the game.In a nod to console game design, the mode also features unlockable power-ups, providing managers with extra transfer budgets or removing the need for player work permits when certain milestones are reached."It's something that has been bubbling away as an idea for a few years now, since we stopped making Football Manager on Xbox 360," says Miles Jacobson, managing director of Sports Interactive, FM's developer."At first, we just put the idea on hold as we already had a successful game on PC and Mac going from strength to strength and thought competing with ourselves would be a bit stupid. But more and more, I started noticing that people of my kind of age were posting comments on reviews on huge websites, including the Guardian, bemoaning that they didn't have the time to play the game any more."We were having a big meeting with everyone on the FM team just after the release of FM 2011 and I asked how many were playing the game at home. Pretty much all of the younger guys put their hands up, but very few of the older ones – the ones with kids – did. So we decided there and then to make FMC a mode in the PC game, rather than a separate release."Beyond the classic mode however, the main game is as complex as ever, with several notable updates and fresh features. The 3D match engine has been updated to look more detailed and televisual, while new staff roles have been created, including a director of football who will take on transfer negotiations if the player choses. Media interaction has also been updated; managers are now able to select the tone of their press conferences from calm to aggressive, all the way up to Alex Ferguson.Elsewhere, there is a reworked network modem which now uses Steam's networking functionality, making it easier for players to set up their own league and cup competitions online. Steam has also allowed the provision of a worldwide leaderboard so managers will be able to compare themselves against the rest of the globe."There are hundreds of other things," promises Jacobson. "This is why we've got more than 25 video blogs coming out between now and release that go into a bit more detail. I think we'd break the interweb if we tried to reveal everything in one go."For now though, it's the FM Classic addition that seems the most radical departure. It's an interesting idea, and one that recognises that Football Manager now has a large fan base that has grown up with the series since its arrival – under the previous name Championship Manager – in the early 1990s. Those people just don't have as much time as they once did to sit in front of their laptops plotting the mercurial rise of Gillingham to the top of the Premiership.
Can I get a converter to take an xD card to an SD card? I want to download photos to my iPad 2, and I don't have a computer or laptop.William ScottIn a previous answer in 2009 ((How can an xD memory card fit an SD slot?), I said I couldn't find an xD-to-SD converter and I still can't. The usual approach for PC users is to buy a multi-card adapter that supports both xD and SD cards so you can copy files from one "drive" to the other. There are quite a few of these adapters, including the Trust All-in-1 Card Reader Express (£4.99 at Amazon.co.uk).Sadly, the iPad doesn't have either a USB port or an SD slot, but Apple sells theApple iPad Camera Connection Kitfor £25. This provides two adapters that plug into the iPad's proprietary dock connector. One lets you connect your iPad to a digital camera via a USB cable (not included), while the other has an SD slot. If you can't connect directly to your (I assume, Fujifilm but possibly Olympus) camera then you can try connecting to a USB card adapter. One of the cheapest for your purposes would be a Fujifilm USB XD Card Reader For all XD Cards£3.69 from Amazon.co.ukor something similar.I can't guarantee that this reader will work with an iPad. It's a very basic bit of technology, so it really ought to work. However, someone who bought the similar Integral USB 2.0 Single Slot XD Reader (£3.38 from Amazon.co.uk) complains in a Customer Review that: "It doesn't work with iPad because it requires too much power." Perhaps readers can suggest an xD that definitely does work.If you feel like trying a non-Apple branded connector, the Shinntto 2-in-1 Digital Camera Connection Kit provides both the USB port and SD card slot in a single dongle for only£3.99 at Amazon.co.uk. It's got a rating of 4.5 out of 5 stars, so it could save you £21.Copying photos to a new PCMy wife has changed from a Dell running Windows XP to a Dell running Windows 7. I transferred her files using a 16GB USB drive, but I just cannot get any joy with the transfer of her photos. On the XP system, they arranged in folders – eg, Spain holiday 2011. I have finished up with scores of folders with only two or three pics in each.Ernest FarnhillIf you are viewing the files and folders in Windows Explorer, then there should not be a problem. First, check that your selected group of folders adds up to less than 16GB by right-clicking and selecting Properties. Next, hold down the right mouse-button, drag the selection to the USB drive, and select Copy Here. It's hard to see how this can go wrong.An alternative is to create a compressed folder on the Windows XP machine and copy her folders of photos into that. When you have 16GB, copy the single compressed file to the USB stick and then to the Windows 7 machine, where you can uncompress it. This ensures that the folder structure and filenames stay the same.Also, Microsoft provides a free utility calledWindows Easy Transfer. This lets you select which files and settings you want to migrate and moves them for you. You can find it in Windows 7 by clicking Start and searching for Easy Transfer. You can download the 32-bit Windows XP version to the XP machine from the link above. There's also a four-minuteMicrosoft videoto show you what to do.You might have found the whole process easier if you'd started with Windows Easy Transfer, though it's not really worth it just for the photos… unless all else fails.I wonder if your wife has organised her photos into albums using some type of cataloguing program. In this case, the real folders on the hard drive may not match the "virtual folders" in her software (and perhaps you copied them correctly after all). If so, you should be able to move the photos across by opening the cataloguing program and creating a backup. Install the same cataloguing software on the Windows 7 machine, run it, and choose to restore from the backup. (If there's no backup option, there should be export/import commands that produce the same result.)Incidentally, it's certainly possible to use a 16GB memory stick to do the migration, and Windows Easy Transfer offers this option. However, it's better to do it using an external USB hard drive, and you can now get a 2TB drive for about £85. This is big enough to hold complete copies of both the XP and Windows 7 hard drives, and therefore to provide a backup if one of them fails. If you don't have a back up, recovering lost photos can easily cost 10x or 20x the price.Bad formWe have received, by email, an insurance document for our dog. It has to be printed out and filled in every time we take him to a vet. Rather than do this manually, we'd like to fill it in and just print it off as and when required. We have Office 2010, but every time I attempt to fill in the form, a new page starts. I have forwarded the doc as an attachment. Is there a way to edit it?Mike DavenportAlthough the file you sent is a Microsoft Word document, it doesn't contain any text. Each page is, in fact, an image, which is why there is no way of typing anything into any of the boxes. Even if you save the file in a different format, such as PDF, you still only have image files.There are ways round this. For example, I saved the image as a png file, then loaded it into the free graphics program,Paint.net. This has an "insert text" function – click the T on the Tools bar – so you can type in your details, save the result and print it out. Free text fields (such as name and address) are very easy to do, but it requires a bit of practice to get the account numbers lined up in their little boxes. It may be easier if you work with the image at its actual size, or larger.The simpler alternative is just to print out the original document, fill in all the common bits, and make a few photocopies. When you take your dog to a vet, grab a copy and fill in the two remaining blank lines (First date of illness, Brief description of illness) by hand.I assume Argos Pet Insurance scans and files the forms when you send them in. Otherwise there are better ways to collect data, and many large companies useMicrosoft InfoPathto create electronic forms. This is part of Microsoft Office. Even one-man bands can do something similar usingGoogle Forms, which saves data in a Google spreadsheet.Proper online forms can be pre-populated so you don't have to type in the same data over and over again, unless something changes – you move house, or whatever. But you shouldn't even have to do this yourself. Don't vets have computers?
It's time for our weekly roundup of the best mobile games for smartphones and tablets from the last seven days, on the day of the week – Thursday – which has emerged as the key release day for the industry, much as Friday is for console and handhelds.Here's this week's selection:Avengers InitiativeMarvel is being very ambitious with its new mobile game, which will be delivered episodically over the coming weeks and months, starting with The Incredible Hulk. It's an all-action slightly-Infinity-Bladey combat game, tapping into the Marvel XP community for awards and achievements. At the time of writing the iOS version has gone live, but it's also imminent on Android.Android / iPhone / iPadHornPhosphor Games' Horn impressed on iOS with its recent release, and surprised a few people with its choice of publisher, Zynga. Now it's made the leap to Android, offering a beefy fighting game – yes, more overtones of Infinity Blade, albeit with more free-wandering and dancing around enemies. The visuals arespiffingtoo.AndroidBig Fish UnlimitedFor now, this is US-only, but Big Fish Games' unlimited streaming games service is worth keeping an eye on. Players pay a flat monthly fee for access to more than 100 games, streamed over the network on-demand. It's like a one-publisher Spotify for casual games, runs on tablets for now, and the idea seemed so disruptive to Apple, it blocked it from iOS' App Store when Big Fish tried to launch it there. Hence the Android exclusivity.AndroidFinal Fantasy DimensionsLots of game developers have boggled and/or scoffed at Square Enix's attempt to charge £19.99 for the full version of Final Fantasy Dimensions, its RPG released outside Japan for the first time. But a fair few are watching eagerly to see if that price proves lucrative for the publisher. Expect traditional FF questing and battling, with a free prologue to try before being asked to stump up for other chapters.iPhone / iPadDodonpachi ResurrectionThis is a very good week for Android gamers, particularly those who like getting stuck in to a hardcore game. Dodonpachi Resurrection is from the Danmaku (or "bullet hell") genre, which means it's a shoot 'em up that's most certainly not for the faint-hearted. Two game modes, a beautifully-tuned scoring system, and the odd bullet or two. Sorry, 200.AndroidWild BloodThis column genuinely isn't an attempt to focus on hardcore mobile games at the expense of casual titles – we're just in the middle of a blizzard of high-quality games that fall into the former category. Wild Blood is the first game from publisher Gameloft to use the Unreal Engine, turning Sir Lancelot and Arthurian legends into a meaty action-adventure – including online deathmatches.iPhone / iPadGalaga Legions DXMore bullets, thankfully of a less-hellish variety, for Windows Phone owners here. Namco Bandai has given its classic shoot 'em up an Xbox Live makeover for Microsoft's smartphone OS, and while the controls take a bit of getting used to, it's an entertaining return for the veteran franchise.Windows PhoneHuebrixThe whole casual/hardcore distinction needs putting to rest, perhaps. Huebrix is the latest puzzle game that looks casual, but has the potential to develop into a full-blown hours-a-day addiction. The gameplay involves dragging paths from blocks to fill out a grid, with lots of downloadable levels, and an editor to make your own and send them to friends.Android / iPhone / iPadTotal War Battles: ShogunSega has come a long way from Super Monkey Ball, the first big mobile hit in the early days of the App Store. Total War Battles: Shogun was a brand new real-time strategy game when released for iOS, and now it's been ported to Android. The game promises a 10-hour campaign mode, as well as local multiplayer.AndroidBombshells: Hell's BellesGlu Mobile has been remaking a name for itself by blending hardcore gameplay with freemium business models. Bombshells is the latest example: an aerial combat game promising more than 200 planes, cannons and missile launchers to blow friends and enemies up with. Game Center is tied in to request that friends act as your virtual wingmen in battleAndroid / iPhone / iPadAnd a special mention for...TouchArcade – The Best New GamesNot a game, which is why it's the bonus 11th entry in this week's roundup. But TouchArcade's newly-native iPad app is definitely of interest to iOS gamers. It draws news, previews and reviews from the TouchArcade website, while providing access to its popular forums, and a Watch List feature to keep tabs on upcoming iOS games.iPadThat's our selection this week, but what have you been playing on your smartphone or tablet? Make your recommendations or give feedback on the titles above in the comments section.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 1 September 2012PositionWeeksin chartPlatform(share%)Game (age rating)1 (–)Guild Wars 2(12+)PC (100)12 (1)Sleeping Dogs(18+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (38)33 (3)New Super Mario Bros 2(3+)3DS (100)34 (4)London 2012: The Official Video Game(3+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (43)PC (1)105 (6)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (35)PS3 (22)Wii (18)3DS (5)116 (2)Darksiders II(16+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (37)PC (2)27 (–)Madden NFL 13 (3+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (44)18 (5)Transformers: Fall Of Cybertron(12+)Xbox 360 (65)PS3 (34)PC (1)29 (7)Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Future Soldier(15+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (38)PC (3)1510 (17)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (45)PC (3)Wii (1)3911 (8)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (65)3DS (35)4012 (14)Dead Island GOTY Edition (18+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (35)PC (1)913 (9)Batman: Arkham City(15+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (44)PC (3)3314 (–)Tales Of Graces F (12+)PS3 (100)115 (11)The Amazing Spider-Man(16+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (39)DS (2)3DS (1)1016 (10)Lego Harry Potter: Years 5-7(7+)PS3 (34)Xbox 360 (32)Wii (15)DS (14)1217 (12)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (40)PS3 (31)Wii (12)PSP (7)4918 (13)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (33)PC (9)4419 (16)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (35)6020 (–)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (41)38UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer took to the stage in New York on Wednesday to help Nokia, the once mighty European mobile phone giant, unveil two new smartphones in a make-or-break bid by both companies to create a hit product capable of taking on Apple and Samsung.In a lavish launch event squeezed in to grab attention ahead of next week's iPhone 5 presentation in California, Ballmer showed off the first Nokia handsets to run on Windows Phone 8 software.Within a year Microsoft expects 400m smartphone, PC and tablet devices could be running Windows 8, its reinvention of the world's best selling PC operating system for the touchscreen age.Nokia declined to reveal how much the new phones will cost, or the date on which the handsets will go on sale, and traders punished the company by sending the shares diving by as much as 15% in New York.The Lumia 920 and its budget companion the Lumia 820, unveiled by Nokia chief executive Stephen Elop in a warehouse overlooking New York's Hudson river, have screens that respond to touch from gloves as well as bare fingers, internet connections that will work on European 4G networks, and can be recharged wirelessly on special charging plates.In a gimmick reminiscent of the Google glasses still in development, a City Lens app allows users to hold the viewfinder up to look at a city street. Software then recognises key places, showing the names of restaurants and shops in clickable boxes on the screen.Ballmer said: "This represents the largest opportunity available for software developers today. I bet you now the next app developer to hit it really, really big will be a developer on Windows."The timing is critical for both companies. Nokia is burning cash, has closed factories and research centres and laid off thousands of staff in the last year after sales of its more basic phones collapsed and the Finnish company lost its position as the world's biggest manufacturer of handsets to Samsung.Nokia last year tied its future to Microsoft by abandoning its own Symbian operating software in favour of Windows, but the first fruits of the so-called "WinKia" partnership were not a soaraway success. The original Lumia handsets, unveiled last autumn, have sold 6m units this year – compared with iPhone's 61m units in the first six months of 2012. With many Asian manufacturers, such as Samsung, HTC, LG and Huawei, preferring Google's free Android operating software to Windows – for which they must pay a licence fee – Nokia represents Microsoft's best chance of attracting a smartphone following.Smartphones and tablets have ushered in a personal computing revolution which is gathering momentum and unpicking Microsoft's dominance in the sphere. Laptop and desktop computer sales are stagnating, while the smaller devices are now capable of carrying out many of their functions. Handheld computers also have the advantage of "instant on", while older laptops are slow to fire up.Microsoft has won plaudits for its new Windows software, which uses live tiles rather than static icons to populate the home screen and is seen as a leap forward in design terms from Apple's iOS interface.Michael Gartenberg, of the research firm Gartner, said: "No one will ever confuse Windows Phone with Android or iOS. The challenge is can Nokia and Microsoft explain how different is better? There is no doubt these devices stand out from the crowd. Visible difference is there. Now they need to tell consumers."With some commentators already dubbing the partnership NoWin, a pun on the WinKia moniker, Nokia and Microsoft will have to fight hard for a share of attention. The iPhone 5 is expected to go on sale later this month following its launch in San Francisco next Wednesday. Samsung's Galaxy SIII, launched in May, is currently the world's most popular model.And Google is expected to transform Motorola's product range, starting with a new HD model also unveiled on Wednesday, its biggest marketing push since finalising its deal to move into manufacturing with the acquisition of the US handset maker.Elop said: "The most important thing is to get the consumer to experience the Lumia. We have the capabilities to differentiate ourselves.""It's difficult to believe that Nokia and Microsoft, two dominant players in the market, are struggling to get a foothold in the smartphone space," said telecoms expert Ernest Doku at price comparison site uSwitch. "It can't be underestimated how important it is that the latest Lumia models capture the public's imagination and quickly. This could well be the last throw of the dice for the Finnish manufacturer."Selling pointsTouch screenResponds to gestures from gloved hands for ski-slope web surfingWireless rechargingLumia phones can be placed on a special charging plate to power up, without having to fiddle with wiringCity LensAn app which overlays clickable boxes showing the names of restaurants and shops when the viewfinder is held up to scan a city streetPhotographyA "floating camera" eliminates blur caused by shaking hands and long exposures when taking photos at night. One function allows unwanted figures to be edited out of pictures, another creates Harry Potter-style moving photos. By taking a short film, moving elements such as a waving flag can be added to an otherwise still photographSuperfast internet connectionsThe Lumia range will be compatible with 4G networks due for launch in the UK, which will use the 800, 900, 1800, 2100 and 2600 bands
Is it Friday yet?
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple acquires stack of LTE patents &gt;&gt; Chosun Kibo (Korea)Samsung Electronics had 819 (12.7%) to rank first, followed by the US patent company InterDigital with 780 patents (12.1%). China's Huawei ranked fifth with 402 (6.2%).Apple only developed 44 of it 318 LTE patents itself and bought the rest from Nortel and Freescale last year. Patent enforcement firm Rockstar Bidco, in which Apple holds a majority stake, owns another 116 LTE patents, giving Apple 434 in all."This shows that Apple has been taking strategic steps to acquire intellectual property to prepare for potential legal disputes before it launches its own LTE smartphones," said a KIPO official.Speak softly and carry a big patent portfolio.Honeytrap reveals mass monitoring of downloaders &gt;&gt; New ScientistAnyone who has downloaded pirated music, video or ebooks using a BitTorrent client has probably had their IP address logged by copyright-enforcement authorities within 3 hours of doing so. So say computer scientists who placed a fake pirate server online - and very quickly found monitoring systems checking out who was taking what from the servers.Oooh.Slideshark heads to iPhone, after owning PowerPoint presentations on iPad &gt;&gt; VentureBeatAs much as you may hate Powerpoint presentations, sometimes you can't avoid them -- especially if they're crucial to your business. Now Brainshark is bringing its popular Slideshark app to the iPhone, which will further the company's mission to take the pain out of presentations.Just like on the iPad, the iPhone app lets you view Powerpoint presentations stored in Slideshark's cloud service. It's particularly useful for having continual access to presentations as they're updated, and sending them to large screens to share with a group (either via adapters or streaming via AirPlay to an Apple TV). Now, you can pitch your slide deck right from your pocket.Those with long memories will remember Palm demonstrating how you could run PowerPoints off its PalmPilots in around 2004.Bitcoin exchange BitFloor suspends operations after $250,000 theft &gt;&gt; The VergePopular Bitcoin exchange BitFloor - described by its owner as "the #4 USD exchange and #1 in the US"-- has been forced to suspend operations after the equivalent of $250,000 was stolen in a virtual heist.Writing in a post on the Bitcoin Forum last night, founder Roman Shtylman explained that an attacker had gained access to an unencrypted backup of the exchange's wallet keys, using them to transfer "the vast majority of the coins BitFloor was holding on hand," a haul which Shtylman later pegged at around 24,000 BTC.Good news is hard to find around BitCoin at present. (The Bitcoin Forum was dead on Wednesday evening.)Real tech journalists love Gojee &gt;&gt; brian s hallI've said it many times. I will say it again. Venture capitalists do not fund tech blogs because they expect to get a 10X or greater return on that investment. Never gonna happen.Nope. Rather, they fund tech blogs - deliberately, explicitly - because the tech blogs then serve as their PR. The "journalists" at these sites are essentially public relations, re-writing the stories they are given.Want serious coverage of your app, business, technology in the big tech blogs? Then you better sell off a piece of yourself to the VCs. They then get the tech blogs to write about you. Oh, say, on a completely different topic, there's still another food/recipe app. Out today. Called Gojee!Do let us know after reading his post whether you feel the need for more coverage of Gojee.Nokia Lumia 920 - first hands-on video &gt;&gt; YouTubeNokia gets to make the first hands-on video? That's cheating, surely.Prolonged CPR efforts may be beneficial, study says &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comWhen a hospital patient goes into cardiac arrest, one of the most difficult questions facing the medical team is how long to continue cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Now a new study involving hundreds of hospitals suggests that many doctors may be giving up too soon.The study found that patients have a better chance of surviving in hospitals that persist with CPR for just nine minutes longer, on average, than hospitals where efforts are halted earlier.Remember, do it to the Bee Gees' '"Stayin' Alive" - but the club remix.Court says Oracle must pay Google $1,130,350 in costs; drops the "reveal your shills" issue &gt;&gt; GroklawAn expensive misadventure for Oracle. On the other matter, the court filing says:The Court takes this opportunity to state that it will take no further action regarding the subject of payments by the litigants to commentators and journalists and reassures both sides that no commentary has in any way influenced the Court's orders and ruling herein save and except for any treatise or article expressly cited in an order or ruling.Despite having all the court papers copied on its site, Groklaw doesn't seem to have looked to see whether any commentary is cited in any orders or rulings.The Ecosystem Of Hype &gt;&gt; PandoDailyCase in point, there are not one, but two incubator launched companies selling subscriptions to men's underwear in a box, and both of them have been written up in TechCrunch. Since VCs and the various other players of the hype machine don't want to be embarrassed, once founders/companies are in the loop, it then becomes in everyone's best interest to keep the cycle moving, oftentimes to an acquisition or long enough for the incubator to cash out to a later stage investor.If you feel that you have been underserved by the lack of coverage here of startups which offer subscriptions to men's underwear in a box, we apologise. (Subscriptionsto underwear in a box?)Google wins face-to-unlock for multiple users patent, makes us hungry for Android support &gt;&gt; EngadgetGoogle has won a face-to-unlock patent that seems to let multiple users share one "computing device." Point your face at the built-in camera, and you'll be allowed access to your personal profile - and when it's time to move, someone else can do the same to take your place.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Jimmy Wales, the founder of Wikipedia, has sharply criticised the government's "snooper's charter", designed to track internet, text and email use of all British citizens, as "technologically incompetent".He said Wikipedia would move to encrypt all its connections with Britain if UK internet companies, such as Vodafone and Virgin Media, were mandated by the government to keep track of every single page accessed by UK citizens.The entrepreneur said he was confident there would be a general move to encryption across the internet if British-based communication service providers were required to collect and store data for 12 months from overseas companies, such as Google and Facebook, for possible access by the police and security services.He said the British government would have to resort to the "black arts" of hacking to break encryptions: "It is not the sort of thing I'd expect from a western democracy. It is the kind of thing I would expect from the Iranians or the Chinese and it would be detected immediately by the internet industry," he told MPs and peers.His intervention came as leading UK internet companies, including Vodafone and Virgin Media, also raised concerns about the responsibility for retaining and storing sensitive data from overseas third-party companies, which, they said, would damage their commercial relationships and entail a competitive disadvantage.The internet industry, which is giving evidence to a parliamentary special select committee on the draft communications data bill, said the legislation could create new opportunities for hackers and "malicious agents" wanting sensitive private information about individuals.The London Internet Exchange (Linx), told MPs it had serious concerns that the proposals would create a "profiling engine", a filtering system that would produce detailed profiles on all users of electronic communications systems and allow sophisticated data mining.In a written submission Linx said it would be a challenge to safeguard this profiling engine, and that a breach would be "a significant threat to national security".The organisation stated that the profiling engine amounted to "an enormously powerful tool for public authorities". Its submission said: "Its mere existence significantly implicates privacy rights, and its extensive use would represent a dramatic shift in the balance between personal privacy and the capabilities of the state to investigate and analyse the citizen."The £1.8bn scheme will require UK-based internet and phone providers to retain and store for 12 months the "traffic data" – who sent what, to whom, from where – of every British citizen's internet, text and mobile phone use. The move would exclude the contents of messages.The Home Office has admitted it cannot force foreign companies like Google and Facebook to store and hand over sensitive personal data. Instead it is hoping for voluntary agreements. But the legislation includes powers to require British communication firms to collect and store third-party data that cross their networks.Home Office security officials estimate that the rapidly evolving nature of the internet stops them tracking up to 25% of communications data despite such information being used as evidence in the majority of terrorist and serious crime cases. Internet and phone companies currently only keep data collected for their own business billing.The Internet Service Providers Association said the government estimated that this "gap" could be cut by 10% and questioned whether this was sufficient to justify the proposals or whether it represented value for money.
There is no "off switch" for the internet, says the British inventor of the world wide web – and that is a good thing, because it could only be undone by governments around the world coordinating to turn it into a centralised system.Sir Tim Berners-Lee, who launched the first web page on Christmas Day 1990, was speaking at the launch of a global league table showing which countries put the web to work best.His "off switch" comments came after concerns were expressed last year that theformer Egyptian regime led by Hosni Mubarakhad suppressed the use of the web to try to damp down the revolution that eventually overthrew it.Berners-Lee, 57, said: "The way the internet is designed is very much as a decentralised system. At the moment, because countries connect to each other in lots of different ways, there is no one off switch, there is no central place where you can turn it off."In order to be able to turn the whole thing off or really block, suppress one particular idea then the countries and governments would have to get together and agree and co-ordinate and turn it from a decentralised system to being a centralised system."And if that does happen it is really important that everybody fights against that sort of direction."His comments came on the same day that Jimmy Wales, the co-founder of the collaborative online encyclopaedia Wikipedia, gave evidence to MPs about proposals to monitor and store details about emails and other internet communications. Wales has frequently expressed strong opposition to the suggestion of extending government control of the internet; earlier this year he called for a blackout of Wikipedia to protest at a proposed US law which would have been able to shut down non-US sites alleged to infringe copyright.Berners-Lee told the Guardian earlier this year that the government should abandon the proposals, calling them "a destruction of human rights" and warning that "the amount of control you have over somebody if you can monitor internet activity is amazing."The global league table, launched on Wednesday by the World Wide Web Foundation, showed Sweden as the top country for its use of the web, with the US second and the UK in third place. Burkina Faso, Zimbabwe and Yemen were the bottom three of 61 countries measured using indicators such as the political, economic and social impact of the web, connectivity and use.The league table, which will be updated annually and will also try to measure absolute as well as relative improvements, uses data from the past five years, and compares elements such as the extent to which relevant and useful content is available to citizens; the political, economic and social impact of the web; the speed of connections; and levels of censorship. The UK's scores were lowest for web usage and social impact. China, despite having the world's largest internet population, ranked 29th, and was 42nd in terms of political impact out of the 61 countries examined.• This article was amended on September 6 as it incorrectly listed Nepal, Cameroon and Mali as being the bottom three countries in the Index.
Samsung Electronics, the world's largest mobile and smartphone maker, is being accused of exploiting younger workers and using factories in China where some employees were physically and verbally abused, and forced to work more than 100 hours per month of overtime.China Labor Watch, a New York-based organisation set up by Chinese activist Li Quang in 2000, also alleges that its investigation of six Samsung-owned plants and two of its suppliers showed that safety measures – such as providing protective clothing for workers – were not followed.Workers were barred from sitting during shifts and some suffered physical and verbal abuse, the organisation allegesin the 122-page report. The organisation said it investigated eight plants in China that produce mobile phones, media players, DVD players, TV components, mobile displays, printers, home appliances and mobile phone casings for Samsung. The plants' staff totals more than 24,000 workers.Investigators entered the factories undercover, or spoke to workers away from the factories.Samsung acknowledged to the Associated Press that poor working conditions "may have arisen" due to production demands and that a review would take place immediately."We frequently review our manufacturing facilities regarding overtime work. We will re-evaluate working hour practices," said spokesman James Chung. "When new production lines are completed or new products are launched, high demand has led to overtime work."But the company denied allegations that it used child labour, saying it has "zero tolerance" for the hiring of underage workers. China Labor Watch alleged in August that a Samsung supplier, HEG Electronics, was using child workers. Samsung replied to that earlier this week by saying it will audit working conditions at about 250 Chinese companies in its supply chain by the end of this year, and would end contracts if any labour abuses or violations of its policies are found. But the company denied the presence of child workers under 16 at HEG Electronics.In its latest report, China Labor Watch goes further, and accuses three factories which are all majority-owned by Samsung of hiring workers aged under 18.Hiring workers under the age of 16 is illegal in China, but it is legal to hire 16- and 17-year-olds."The SEHZ [Huizhou Samsung Electronics Co, 99% owned by Samsung, with about 10,000 workers] factory was even reported as having management hire underage workers by changing the name on the young person's ID card to the name of a past worker in order to create a facade of age legality," the report alleges. "Additionally, workers at SEHZ, Chaarmtech, and SSKMT [Shenzhen Samsung Kejian Mobile Telecommunication Technology, 60% owned by Samsung and which makes one set of its mobile phones] have reported that underage workers will enter the factories with fake IDs, indicating a major problem with the hiring and supervision system in these factories."The accusation comes just days after Samsung was handed a billion-dollar fine by a jury in a court battle with rival smartphone maker Apple, in which it was judged to have copied elements of Apple's iPhone interface and earlier models' appearance.Now, as Apple has done over the past year, it is facing accusations over labour conditions in factories in China – leading China Labor Watch to headline its report "Is Samsung Infringing Upon Apple's Patent to Bully Workers?"The American company became so concerned about claims over working conditions in its Chinese suppliers' factories that chief executive Tim Cook paid a special inspection visit earlier this year, and Apple joined the Fair Labor Organisation, which monitors working conditions in far eastern factories used by a number of American companies.The China Labor Watch report also said that while Samsung suppliers Tianjin Intops, and Tianjin Chaarmtech Electronics complied with minimum wage laws (workers were paid the base monthly salary of 1,310 renminbi or $206), the pay was so low that many workers were compelled to work overtime."Dependence on overtime work is characteristic of workers at almost every investigated factory," the report said.The group also claimed that Samsung or its suppliers knew that Chinese underage youths were using forged identity cards to get jobs.The group's report said that "the factory did not take any actions to prevent the hiring of child workers even when they know about them". Samsung also failed to provide a way for workers to lodge complaints, it said."Even when they suffered unfair treatment, workers at almost [every] factory lacked any effective channel by which to express grievances to management," the report said.The allegations faced by Samsung are reminiscent of a labour scandal that dogged Apple through 2011. A flurry of worker suicides at Foxconn Technology Group, Apple's largest supplier, drew attention to conditions faced by workers in China who put iPhones and other devices together. Since then, Foxconn has raised pay and allowed anonymous audits of staff by the Fair Labor Organisation.
There's something rotten on the streets of Bristol. The city's IgFest begins today, offering a range of 'urban games', in which groups of players take part in themed chases around the Old City, following mission objectives and immersing themselves in living interactive narratives. In other words – they're playing video games, but on the streets and in person. For real.The highlight of this year's event, which runs until 8 September, is likely to be2.8 Hours Later, a zombie chase adventure that challenges participants to navigate and survive an undead apocalypse. Organised by Bristol-based developerSlingshot, the game involves following a map to a series of locations within the allotted 2.8 hour running time. En route, team members will be attacked by zombies – or more accurately, actors dressed as zombies, although it's very easy to get caught up in the atmosphere.There are two other headline games to get involves with, all running every evening of the festival. Cargo, co-designed by Slingshot andThe Orchid Projecthas you legging it through the city attempting to deliver a package to a boat while being helped – or hindered - my a mysterious AI that contacts you via your phone. Incitement bySplash &amp; Rippleis a stealth game in which players attempt to bring down a dystopian Authority. Apparently combining street gaming, theatre and digital technology, it's set to close with something of a spectacular surprise finale – perhaps an actual revolution?Urban games have been around for a number of years, often organised by interactive art collectives likeBlast Theoryor offbeat creative agencies likeHide&amp;Seek. Theatre companies like Punchdrunk are also exploring the boundaries between interactive theatre and gaming.This year's IgFest will also feature its own fringe event, which will include 20 smaller games, and takes place at Bristol's Castle Park.Details of times and tickets can all be found at theIgFest website. And you can also follow theTwitter feedfor more info and updates.
This week on the podcast: what happens to your digital stuff when you die? Bruce Willis's alleged action against Apple puts the issue of digital ownership to the fore.Also, US president Barack Obama drops into Reddit's Ask Me Anything room to melt the internet while the Republicans try to capture attention at their national convention.And Tech Weekly makes a bid for the earliest Christmas mention, throwing forward to the great mobile handset race as Nokia launches its latest Lumia and rumours abound of Apple's iPhone 5.Also we meet Belen Igarzábal, psychologist and researcher at Flacso, the Latin American social sciences institute in Buenos Aires, to discuss Argentina's tech and digital culture.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Apple is expected to launch a larger, thinner "iPhone 5" on 12 September – just as Nokia and Motorola are preparing their own offerings to tempt Christmas shoppers.The notoriously secretive company triggered speculation about the new handset when it invited journalists to an event in San Francisco – with an invite that consists of the number 12 casting a shadow of the number five.The anticipated gadget would follow on from last year's iPhone 4S. But whereas that release saw small cosmetic changes, this year's is expected to be radical – and the first big step by the manufacturer since the death of Steve Jobs.Photographs of components reckoned to have come from Apple's many suppliers in China over the past five months point to a device with a larger 4.2 inch screen and thinner body, and a new nine-pin connector at its base replacing the 30-pin one on existing iPhones and iPads.iPhone currently have a 3.5 inch screen as measured diagonally, but even the expected larger size of the iPhone 5 will be smaller than the Samsung Galaxy S3, which measures 4.8 inches. But the company is expected to try other measures to compete with its Korean rival.Apple will also be aiming to increase its share of the crucial US Christmas smartphone market, when millions of people are expected to buy their first device, by seeking sales bans on rival Samsung's flagship Galaxy S3 and Galaxy Note smartphones, as well as eight other phones from Samsung's 100-plus range.The iPhone 5 is also expected to offer 4G high-speed wireless broadband connectivity on US carriers, in common with a growing number of rival Android phones sold in the US. Ofcom documents also suggest that Orange, which is setting up a 4G service in the UK the day before the launch, intends to offer iPhone compatibility.Some analysts reckon the next iteration of the iPhone, first launched in 2007, could sell up to 160m worldwide in its first two quarters, based on the amount of investment Apple has put into production lines in the past year. That compares with about 80m for the iPhone 4S, according to estimates by Horace Dediu, founder of the Asymco consultancy.Dediu's forecast is based on testimony given by Phil Schiller, head of marketing for Apple, who testified in the company's court battle with Samsung last month that "each new generation [of iPhone] sold approximately equal to all previous generations combined".The smartphone market is still seeing rapid growth of more than 45% annually, even as sales of feature phones have dipped, but only Apple and the broader Android mobile platform from Google are seeing growth in market share.Smartphones running Android made up more than 65% of the world market in the second quarter. However, Apple has a strong share in the US, the richest smartphone market, while Android sales made up 80% of those in China, the fastest-growing market, during the second quarter.Sales of iPhones dipped in the second quarter of this year as consumers began to look forward to the expected revision of the device.The iPhone 4S – which introduced the "Siri" voice recognition system – was one of the last Apple devices whose development was overseen by Steve Jobs, who passed away the day after its launch.Apple is also expected to launch a 7.85 inch ipad Mini – a cut price tablet – but that is not expected until October.Meanwhile, Nokia and Google's Motorola subsidiary are both preparing to show off new phone models in New York on Wednesday, as they try to capture public attention.For Nokia, the Finnish company which once dominated the mobile space but has made losses over the past two quarters, the reaction of US consumers and carriers to its new range of phones will be a crucial test in its effort to revive its fortunes.Nokia chief executive Stephen Elop is expected to show off a range of devices running Microsoft's new Windows Phone 8 software that include wireless charging and NFC technology for mobile payments.Motorola, meanwhile, is widely forecast to showcase new smartphones running on processors made by Intel, rather than using the British-built ARM architecture that powers the vast majority of mobile phones worldwide.The move was presaged at the Consumer Electronics Show in January, although Motorola said at the time that it expected the phones in the summer. Intel has been trying to break into the smartphone sector for years, but has been thwarted because its chip designs have been comparatively power-hungry.
The FBI has denied claims by a hacking group that says it obtained details of more than 12m Apple IDs from the laptop of a federal agent.The group, called AntiSec, said it found 12.36m IDs on the laptop and was making some details public in order to draw attention the the FBI's activities.In a statement, the group predicted the FBI would deny the breach. "Seems quite clear nobody pays attention if you just come and say 'Hey, FBI is using your device details and info and who the fuck knows what the hell are they experimenting with that,' well sorry, but nobody will care. FBI will, as usual, deny or ignore this uncomfortable thingie and everybody will forget the whole thing at amazing speed."The group said it believed the FBI was using the IDs to track people.The FBI released a statement late on Monday, which said: "The FBI is aware of published reports alleging that an FBI laptop was compromised and private data regarding Apple UDIDs was exposed. At this time there is no evidence indicating that an FBI laptop was compromised or that the FBI either sought or obtained this data."Apple did not return calls for comment.According to the group the UDIDs (unique device IDs) were stored in a file named NCFTA_iOS_devices_intel.csv. NCFTA stands for National Cyber-Forensics &amp; Training Alliance and is an alliance between businesses, academics and law enforcements aimed at cracking down on cybercrime.Marco Arment, creator of the Instapaper app,said in a blogpostthat the information could have come from an app and not necessarily from Apple."All of this information could have been collected from an app transmitting data to a server. For instance, this is exactly the information that an ad network would want to collect. And in order to get stats from 12 million devices, it would probably need to be from a set of popular, free apps … where you'd probably see ads," he wrote.
Here's Wednesday!
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe iPhone is not the boss of phones anymore &gt;&gt; Wall St. Cheat Sheet[Cannacord Genuity analyst Michael] Walkley wrote in a note to investors on Tuesday that his checks found that the Galaxy S III was the top selling handset at two of the three major US carriers: Verizon and Sprint. The iPhone 4S remained the top seller at AT&amp;T. At Verizon, the iPhone 4S fell to as low as third place, with Motorola's Razr Maxx taking the second spot.However, Walkley expects Apple to recover as soon as the new model is out. "We believe this is the first month since the iPhone 4S launched in October 2011 that it was not the top selling smartphone in the US market," he wrote. "However, our checks indicated strong consumer interest and likely demand for the iPhone 5, and we believe Apple will return to strong number one smartphone share in the US post the iPhone 5 launch."Clearly good news for Samsung, but might have non-Samsung Android manufacturers worried. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)Why hasn't Yelp worked outside the USA? &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansYelp launched in the UK back in 2009 and smartphone penetration in the UK is not substantially below the USA. So what is it? 'Cultural' is easy, but a cop out. Certainly, people in US cities do eat out more, but is that enough? Has Yelp just not pushed hard enough? Or maybe Americans are just keener to share their opinions (cf Zagat).1 million Apple UDIDs allegedly leaked from FBI laptop &gt;&gt; Marco.orgMarco Arment:initially thought that Apple may owe us an explanation, but the last part of this description from the hackers is interesting:...[a file] with the name of "NCFTA_iOS_devices_intel.csv" turned to be a list of 12,367,232 Apple iOS devices including Unique Device Identifiers (UDID), user names, name of device, type of device, Apple Push Notification Service tokens, zipcodes, cellphone numbers, addresses, etc. the personal details fields referring to people appears many times empty leaving the whole list incompleted on many parts.UDIDs, APNS tokens, andsomecontact info? All of this information could have been collected from an app transmitting data to a server.Now looks like it was an app called AllClear ID. Still, 12m devices having their details leaked is quite a problem.Turkey to ban Twitter and Facebook &gt;&gt; New EuropeSocial media could "provoke great masses", said Binali Y?ld?r?m, Turkey's Transportation, Maritime and Communication Minister, when he announced that the country is planning to block access to Facebook and Twitter in order to prevent a "threat to public safety."In May, the Turkish government announced the new measure would take place in August and thousands of Turks concentrated in some 40 cities and towns around the country. Turkey's Internet regulator wanted to introduce a selection of filters that users would choose from before browsing the Internet. Also, some words could be banned, such as "blond" and "sister-in-law".There have been suspicions, which we've been unable to confirm, that Turkey has attempted some internet filtering of content moving in and out of the country.The end of Android tablets: can Google match Amazon's success before Microsoft closes the window? &gt;&gt; The VergeThere are many reasons Google's massively successful phone operating system has basically fizzled on tablets - uninspiring hardware and bad third party software chief amongst them - but ultimately the biggest problem is the lack of a single Android tablet ecosystem worth anything to consumers. Launching a successful Android tablet on the merits of "having an Android tablet" alone has basically been a non-starter for everyone who's tried. Amazon's key insight with the Fire was to use Android as the means to enable another ecosystem that provides value to consumers, and everyone else is racing to adopt the same model - even Google. What is the Nexus 7 but a window into Google Play? If anything, the Nexus 7 and Kindle Fire are the Android answer to the iPod touch, not the iPad - devices excellently suited to consuming media content and running phone apps, but not anywhere close to laptop replacements.Nokia PureView chief slaps down Lumia 920 camera criticism &gt;&gt; SlashGear"As said many times before it's NOT about the number of pixels but what you do with them" [Nokia photography expert Damian] Dinning pointed out, going on to argue that "the future of photography will be about how you use pixels, optics and image processing together."Contrary to those suggesting that a PureView Lumia would need considerably more than 8-megapixels in order to qualify, Dinning described the tech as more of a hybridization of multiple factors.(Thanks @Scoob1011 for the link.)Could Google lose internet search supremacy to Amazon? | Metro.co.ukIn general, the answer to any news headline that poses a question and ends in a questionmark is "no". The piece is pretty incoherent - it's hard to know if it's talking about US, UK or European share - but one interesting point in this:Whereas Amazon has its own app, Google is merely a search bar. Meanwhile, the growing popularity of Kindle devices increases Amazon's chances of being the first and only destination online.Amazon does have a faint edge as the world gets app-ified. The expected dumping of Google Maps from the next Kindle Fire just amplifies this point. (Thanks @Knowles2 for the link.)Why isn't Android's web usage share higher? &gt;&gt; Fortune TechNet Applications, which monitors hits on its 40,000 client sites and weighs the results based on population statistics, issued a report Saturday that showed Apple's iOS dominating the mobile Web with a record 65.94% share. Android trailed far behind at 20.93%, although its growth year over year was faster (31% to 24.3% for iOS).StatCounter, which doesn't count tablets as mobile devices and does not weigh its survey results as Net Applications does ("We simply publish the data as we record it," its fact sheet boasts) showed Android retaking the lead it enjoyed briefly last summer  (see chart below). According to StatCounter's latest survey, Android's Web share surged to 28% in August while iOS (without the iPad) drifted down to 24.5%.Neither method is perfect - both have their vocal critics -- and adding the iPad into StatCounter's data would shift things significantly in Apple's favor. But why Android's Web share isn't higher in either survey remains a mystery.Microsoft has WP8 locked so tight, even OEMs must learn about new features from Microsoft presentations &gt;&gt; Unwired ViewEldar Murtazin of Mobile Review writes in Russian, so this is translated; he says WP8 is really locked down so not even OEMs can use them:The closest analogy would be an artisan who is working on a body for a standard car chassis. He knows the size of the car, engine and transmission specs, but has no idea what a car interior will look like and what will they put inside. He knows that the interiors for every other artisan be the same and the only way for him to stand out - is to create the great finish/external covers. Furthermore, he will only learn how well his finish fits the overall car design at the last moment, when it is already to late to change anything.(Thanks @fossilfuel for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
8.40pmBSTThat concludes proceedings for today. Guardian Technology will be busy next Wednesday 12 September for the iPhone 5 launch, which we will be liveblogging.8.40pmBSTA demo of the new handsets in video form above from the Windows Phone site.And finally, here are some post launch interview comments Jo Harlow, head of smartphones at Nokia, from a post launch interview.She confirmed that the handsets would go on sale in the fourth quarter of this year, which means anytime from 1 October onwards, and after the rumoured arrival in the shops of the iPhone 5 later this month.Asked whether, given the expense involved in creating and marketing smartphones, today&apos;s launch represented the company&apos;s last realistic attempt at producing a hit smartphone, Harlow insisted Nokia was a long way from running out of time.This is a step in the journey. This characterisation that this is a last chance is not reality. This is the beginning of the next step. It&apos;s not that there is one moment in time that defines everything.On whether Windows and Nokia benefit from the Samsung v Apple patent battle, the answer was yes.The thing that came out of that is the acknowledgement that Windows Phone and the designs around Windows Phone are unique. That&apos;s a positive.8.40pmBSTThe new Nokia 820 and Lumia 920 Windows smartphones.  Photograph: Spencer Platt/Getty Images8.40pmBSTMy conclusion:Clickherefor a list of the handsets released today and key features. No details on pricing, launch date and availability. This is clearly a soft launch and timed to grab some media attention by squeezing in ahead of next week&apos;s iPhone 5 bonanza. Speculation Nokia may wait until after Apple&apos;s latest model goes on sale later this month before blowing its own marketing money.The reaction from the stock markets is harsh - shares down 14% today. No doubt a reaction to the lack of a product on the shelves before the iPhone 5 and also a correction of the recent Nokia share price rises. These were sparked by Samsung&apos;s patent battle loss to Apple, seen by some as a boost for the Windows 8 operating system as a reassuring alternative to Android, on which most of Samsung&apos;s phones currently run.That opportunity is still there with Windows Phone. Today&apos;s handsets have a clever range of new features: Bing search lenses, screens that can be used with gloves on, and improved camera software - although the camera is still a disappointing 8 megapixels. And of course the Windows live tiles user interface that is in many ways more modern than the iPhone. The WinKia partnership will not produce an overnight revolution, but it does have a slow build potential.8.40pmBSTFrom Francisco Jeronimo at IDCA number of challenges remain for Nokia, however. The lack of awareness of the OS will continue to be the major problem for Nokia. The support of other OEMs is key, and the latest Samsung vs. Apple lawsuit will trigger the investment and speed up the roadmaps on Windows Phones. More devices from other makers will help Nokia to raise awareness for Windows Phone 8, but it will come at a price. If Samsung is serious about Windows Phone 8, it will significantly increase its marketing budgets to sell higher volumes than Nokia in the coming quarters. It is therefore important for Nokia to continue leading the Windows Phone volumes. For that needs to make a global launch and not on &quot;selected markets&quot; only. When Nokia WP8 devices come out, Nokia will have to execute its best operational and sales skills ever. Nokia needs to excel at the point of sale, where the value and experience becomes meaningful to end users. Training programs, retail demonstrations, sales commissions, advertisement, etc. will make the difference. This war will be won by those that implement the best below-the-line activities. The battles will aim to dominate the point of sale. Consumers trust the advice of sales people in shops. Nokia will win when it manages to win sales floor people&apos;s opinions towards Windows Phones compared with Android or iOS experiences.The next two quarters will define Nokia&apos;s future. The company took a long-term strategy and a bold decision to invest in the new operating system. This is a marathon and will not give Nokia a short-term boost on sales, but it is important that Nokia continues quarter over quarter to grow its volumes steadily. Its portfolio is right and competitive from a design and specs perspective; the services are available; the company has concluded (or is about to conclude) an important internal restructuring; the OS ecosystem is growing fast; feedback from Windows Phone users is extremely good; and the latest Microsoft announcements on Windows 8, Windows Phone 8 will represent a major opportunity. The time has come for Stephen Elop to prove his strategy was right.8.40pmBST8.40pmBST8.40pmBST8.40pmBST8.40pmBSTThat&apos;s the end of the presentation. Now for a hands on look at the product and a selection of expert verdicts.8.40pmBSTHow do you feel about Samsung stealing your thunder with WP8 last Friday? Samsung took everyone by surprise as it unveiled a Windows Phone at IFA in Berlin last week.ElopAnyone can go on stage and introduce a device today, a week ago, six months ago. We are particularly proud to show WP8 fully working with all the differentiation that sets us apart. We are particularly pleased to show you the first working WP8 product.The office product is clearly one of the key strengths of the Windows Phone products. This was not demonstrated today.Is Nokia developing a Windows 8 tablet?We have made no announcements there but what is quite clear is that the digital experience today spans multiple different environments. With Nokia&apos;s strength in mobility this is an area we are looking at very closely and hope to be able to talk more about that opportunity. It&apos;s a real opportunity though.Do all the historic apps from WP7 work seamlessly and instantly on the new platform?The expectation is yet all of the applications will move forward. There may be some things we don&apos;t expect but the general expectation is we will move forward.Where do you see smartphone market share headed in next 12 monthsIt is the case that with each step we take our intention is to push that market share. We have an opportunity. There is a sense coming through there is a whole bunch of stuff that is looking a lot the same. We stand for a unique, different experience. We think we have a significant opportunity to move that market share in the right direction.8.40pmBSTNow the Q&amp;A with Elop:No launch date and markets today.During Q4 will enter select markets with intense focus and will continue to build from there. You can expect to see China very high on that list.WP8 will support Arabic language.8.40pmBSTElop is making closing remarks.Today with WP8 we are creating the most personal smartphone experience. This is Lumia, the world&apos;s most innovative smartphone.8.40pmBSTBallmer:With Windows Phone 8 we are first seeing the hardware. The launch today of the two new Lumia devices fills out that proposition in a very powerful way. In the course of the next month or two we will see the rest of the Windows 8 software. We bring the power of Bing as both a search engine and a set of technologies that support natural user interface. You see the integration of Xbox services across all of the Windows phone, Windows tablet and Windows PC devices.We bring a developer platform and a store in a common way both to WIndows 8 and Windows Phone 8. We&apos;ve done a lot of standardisation across both platforms. One year from now we should see close to 400m new devices running those operating systems. That means Lumia, that means Surface, that means a number of new devices you saw introduced in Berlin last week across phone and tablet.This represents the largest opportunity available for software developers today. I bet you now the next app developer to hit it really really big will be a developer on Windows.My great thrill of the coming weekend will be to shoot night games of my son playing football with my new Lumia 920.8.40pmBSTElop takes the stage to introduce Steve Ballmer.This is a very important milestone. It is unbelievable how far we&apos;ve come in just 18 months of working with Nokia. You start to see the incredible power of the partnership kick in at this stage. The Windows phone is unlike any other phone at this stage on the market. What we&apos;ve done with live tiles interface is truly stunning and truly unique. Our partnership with Nokia really brings that to life.8.40pmBSTThe Lumia relaunch is not going down well with investors. Nokiasharesare down 13% so far today.&quot;We have seen quite a rise in the share price from July when Nokia unveiled its second quarter earnings. There has been a lot of leaks, and investors must be betting all the information is out there,&quot; said Nordea analystSami Sarkamies.&quot;The situation of Nokia andWindows Phoneis not better than what it was in July,&quot; he said.Shields unveiling the Nokia Lumia 820, the budget model with a different body shape. Comes with Navigation and many of the other apps. Back shell pops off to give you a choice of colours. Purple is a new colour. Grey, black, white, magenta, cyan blue all available. Wireless charging on Fatboy pillows.8.40pmBSTDemonstrating charging using theFatboycharging plate.Bluetooth allows you to push music that is playing on your phone to aJBLspeaker set. Sony phones do something similar using NFC.Bringing Nokia Music, the Spotify styles service, to the US now for the first time.You can also tap phone to JBL wireless headsets. All brightly coloured to match Lumia cases - cobalt blue, acid yellow, magenta etc.Fatboy charging pillows and JBL wireless products will go on sale when Lumia 920 launches.More lenses:Object remover. Smartshoot. Removes unwanted people from photos - good for busy tourist locations. Claps and whoops - first big ones today - as he photoshops unwanted people out of the shot with a few taps.Cinemagraph. Lets you modify by taking a still shot but adding moving parts to the image, which was also recorded on video. In a still shot, a flag starts blowing and the woman in the photo starts moving in a short repeat pattern.8.40pmBSTShieldsTry doing the twist test, solid and durable, no squeaks, no cracks.Cold weather and gloves in Helsinki Finland or while skying are a part of everyday life. To save you from cold hands you can use the screen with gloves. Phone can be used with bare skin and with gloves, because the screen has two modes.8.40pmBSTSharing home screen screenshot via tap and send with NFC - so this is an NFC phone.Tiles come in various sizes, full width, small, medium, rectangular and square.Photography:Once a photo is taken, up pops a list of lens applications, such as Bing Vision, Panorama, Blink, Photostrip, FXSuite. Some are create in house, some are third party.Bing finds searchable stuff in the photo. FX shows four effects that can be used on a single screen. Instagram-style. Microsoft Blink takes the best picture of a face. Photograph yourself and the app takes a series of pictures and choses the one that&apos;s the best.Hands over to Kevin Shields a senior VP at Nokia8.40pmBSTWindows Phone 8 platform experience:Harlow invites Microsoft&apos;s Joe Belfiore onto the stage. He is a corporate VP. He will talk over some features.We intend for WP8 to deliver the most personal experience anyone can get on a smartphone. One of the ways we are going to do that is through the evolution of the start experience. Bringing the people and things to the front centre.Having loaded his email and facebook and twitter details into the phone, He is pinning a live tile for himself and his wife to the front screen. Grabbing his photo tile, which contains camera images. Grabbing the weather tile and pinning it to the start screen. Weather tile shows the temperature and outlook in chosen location without having to click through to the app.Says Windows Phone 7 apps still work on WP8. And they work on Windows PC or tablet. Uses HTML5 standard support, meaning developers have less work to do to develop apps for each of these screens.Sharing capability. Applause as he presses a button to take a screenshot. This can be used to send a photo of the home screen to friends.8.40pmBSTprocessor is Qualcomm Snapdragon S4.Battery:comes with built in wireless charging. Whenever you recharge your phone can recharge too. The Fatboy recharge pillow. Place it by your sofa and every time you sit down your phone sits with you. Making recharging fit into your every day life.Uses Qi, a wireless charging standard.There is momentum building behind the Qi interoperability standard. Today we are turbo charging that standard.Virgin Atlantic will place charging plates in their Heathrow clubhouse. Coffee Bean and Tea Leaf will install plates on tables in coffee shops. The first of many partnerships they expect to sign.It&apos;s the start of a new era of smartphone management.8.40pmBSTLike Google glasses, which are still in development, but less embarassing to use.Blur free scrolling and Screen visibility in bright light.The text stays crystal sharp when scrolling an email.What about if you were standing in London on a bright sunny day - unlikely I know. Nokia has pioneered clear black displays to prevent the screen washing out in sunlight. Clear black just got better. Adjusts the colour tone and brightness of the screen in response to sunlight. the result is a screen you can see in the desert and on the beach.8.40pmBSTNavigation:Bringing together location based apps to create integrated suite of location services. Offline maps a key feature. Not caching offline data for later use - true offline maps that work whether you are connected or not. Launch Nokia drive straight away for free turn by turn guided navigation straight out of the box.Nokia drive will tell you what time you need to leave, because it contains live traffic info.Includes commuter maps, with info on indoor locations in transport terminals.By pointing your camera at any city block the Nokia city lens allows you to see clickable names of shops, restaurants and bars on any city centre location. You can click to call to reserve a table just before walking in the door. A little like Google Glasses.Nokia maps will also get what Harlow calls &quot;Augmented Reality&quot;. Lift the phone in maps to see the direction of your route and points of interest nearby.8.40pmBSTPureview photo software helps correct dark and blurry pictures when snapping at night. Lumia 920 captures between five and ten times the light of any other smartphone camera. technology reacts to the shakes in your hand to balance the image, reducing the blur.Harlow is demo-ing a bright acid yellow Lumia 920. It&apos;s a colour I haven&apos;t seen before.8.40pmBSTElop has handed over to Jo Harlow, head of mobile phones business. Harlow:Today we are ready to take the next step.video showing a phone in a yellow case, being taken apart to expose the innards.Today we are introducing the next generation of Lumia, the Windows Phone 8 flagship, ladies and gentlement the Nokia Lumia 920.The latest Nokia pureview camera. Advanced Nokia mapping experience including Nokia City lens. PureMotion HD+ and built in wireless charging. The most personal smartphone experience.This is Lumia and it&apos;s time to switch.Seems to be the day&apos;s catchphrase.IDC expects 2012 will be the first year the number of images taken on smartphone overtakes those taken on cameras.1.4bn taken every day with mobile phones. 638m of them posted to social networks.8.40pmBSTExtending Nokia location platform to Windows phone, deeply embedded into that environment. &quot;Increasingly other companies are placing bets on Nokia location platform,&quot; says Elop.We have taken steps to make Nokia &quot;more nimble&quot; - a reference to the thousands of job cuts, factory and R&amp;D centre closures of the last year.Today we are all very excited to share with you that next very important step we are taking in our smartphones business.8.40pmBSTThe Windows phone ecosystem has grown from 7000 apps to 100,000 apps and is growing three times faster since Nokia joined. Big names creating apps include CNN, ESPN, Electronic Arts.Talking about the more basic Symbian phones Nokia is using to fulfill its ambition of connecting the next 1 billion people. Asha range &quot;beginning to look like low pice smartphones&quot; with long battery life and &quot;stingy&quot; levels of data consumption.Stabilised mobile phones business as a result of its Asha push last quarter.We are identifying ways to challenge the shortcomings of today&apos;s mobile phone experience.Studying new materials, longer life power, future shape of smartphone ecosystems. Four out of five cars today if they have a navigation system are using Nokia capabilities.8.40pmBSTStephen Elop is on stage. Describing last years decision to move from Symbian to Windows.The industry had shifted from a battle of devices to a war of ecosystems. Nokia needed to be part of an ecosystem. We joined the Windows Phone ecosystem. We shared a vision with Microsoft that we could create a new kind of smartphone experience.Windows offered something unique in the marketplace with its colours, its live tiles...its focus on people.8.40pmBSTJust arrived at the venue by goods lift, at Center458 overlooking the Hudson river. Five minutes until the event begins...8.40pmBSTThe clock is ticking for both Nokia and Microsoft, and today&apos;s event is seen by many as a last chance for the Finnish company to remain in the smartphone race against Apple and Samsung.Nokia has lost its crown as the world&apos;s largest phone maker to Samsung, and has been burning cash and laying off staff in their thousands as sales of more basic phones collapse. Nokia desperately needs a hit smartphone, and time is running out.Over at Microsoft, chief executive Steve Ballmer knows that his company will quickly become sidelined unless its Windows software makes the leap to phones and tablets as the personal computing revolution leaves the traditional PC behind.After more than two decades of dominance, the famous Wintel alliance between Microsoft Windows and chip maker Intel is being overthrown. Smartphones and tablets mostly run on chips designed by the British company ARM, and they use software by Apple and Google.Microsoft&apos;s share of the combined market for tablets, phones and PCs is expected to fall to 33% by 2016, according to research firm IHS, down from 44% last year.With Asian manufacturers preferring Google&apos;s free Android phone software, Nokia&apos;s exclusive commitment to Windows, outlined by chief executive Stephen Elop last year, still represents Microsoft&apos;s best chance of finding a wider mobile phone following.Their first attempt at a collaboration came last October, but the Lumia range of handsets did not set the world alight. Just 6m have sold this year, compared to 61m iPhones over the same period.The models unveiled today will be the first using Windows 8 software for phones, and the first where Nokia has had a chance to influence the interface design.The rumours are that two flagship handsets will be unveiled, the Nokia Phi and Nokia Arrow. They are said to be compatible with most 4G networks in Europe, allowing mobile connections at speeds around 10 times faster than the 3G networks in use in the UK today. (The UK is due to get a 4G service on Orange and T-Mobile before Christmas).They may have a longer battery life than the Lumia, screens with the same crisp resolution as the iPhone 4S, and better camera software. The screen may even respond not just to fingers put pens - useful for those cold winters back home in Finland...The launch event kicks off at 3pm UK time, when we will be reporting live what the latest &apos;WinKia&apos; collaboration has produced
GCHQ, the government's electronic eavesdropping and security agency, is to   warn the chief executives of Britain's biggest companies about an unprecedented threat from cyber-attacks.Ministers and the intelligence agencies are for the first time confronting senior private sector company figures over their failure to protect their businesses from cyberthreats to their personal data, online services and intellectual property."GCHQ now sees real and credible threats to cybersecurity of an unprecedented scale, diversity, and complexity", said Ian Lobban, the agency's director.There have been determined and successful efforts to steal intellectual property, access defence information and disrupt government, he says in a foreword to a GCHQ publication, an "Executive Companion - 10 Steps to Cyber-Security".Thousands of IT systems are compromised every day, he says, some for political motives, but most commonly to steal money or commercial secrets.The magnitude and tempo of the attacks pose a real threat to Britain's economic security', Lobban adds. About 80% of known attacks would be defeated by embedding basic information security practices.The business secretary, Vince Cable, said: "Cybersecurity threats pose a real and significant risk to UK business by targeting valuable assets such as data and intellectual property. By properly protecting themselves against attacks companies are protecting their bottom line."The foreign secretary, William Hague, the minister responsible for GCHQ, said: "The UK is committed to building a secure, resilient, open and trusted internet&nbsp;… But cyberspace – and cybercrime – knows no borders. Businesses must be alert to the dangers."
Last week gave us the first chance to see what the OEMs had in mind when it comes to Windows 8 tablets. I'm left regarding the whole affair with the same affection that I might feel for a cat that's sicked up a hairball made of plastic and silicon on my front-room carpet.InnovationWe're two-and-a-half years into the "iPad market", and I don't think anyone would say that product has been a failure. Now that Windows 8 is done with its magical reimagined touchable-ness the OEMs can now all get together and start creating fantastic kit that spanks the boys and girls of Cupertino. But no - instead of kit worthy of Windows 8, we get a bunch ofrevamped netbooks, a technology the market rejected around the same time its love affair with the iPad started.I've created alittle spreadsheet of what was announced. Three Windows RT devices, and eight Windows 8 devices.Of the eleven devices, ten of them are irrevocably meshed together with the idea of the keyboard. All ten are presented with keyboard in tow and, to my mind, that positions them as netbooks. (I'm indebted toPeter Brightfor pointing out that the Samsung ATIV Windows RT device doesn't currently have a keybaord option.) The only thing the manufacturers have done is taken old designs, refreshed them, and made it possible to take the keyboard off. None of them has worked as hard as Microsoft and produced something innovative that moves the story forward like the upcoming Surface devices do.But that whole idea of keyboards on post-PC devices? I won't rest until they're expunged from the post-PC proposition. I'm willing to go to thermonuclear war on this."But you need a keyboard for real work!"Yes, I totally agree that if you want to input information into a computer you need a keyboard. The only problem with that premise is that the iPad isn't a computer.I'm a believer in that generally as a community we technicians are able to provide the market with what it needs. The market demands, we provide a solution. Oh - half of the time we forget to do that and try and foist onto the market things that it doesn't need - i.e. the classic "solution seeking problem" that so often seems to define the work we do.Because we know that most people don't use a keyboard with the iPad, and even those who own a keyboard don't use it all the time, we know that the iPad doesn't need one. People get along just fine with their iPad entirely unnumbered by plasticy panels of microswitches. Yet in bizarro-OEM-land it's like they can't conceive of a world where people don't use their iPads with keyboards. Yet I wonder how many engineers or managers over at the OEMs actually use keyboards with their iPads.Real computers need keyboards, which is why desktops and laptops have them. What's not clear to me is why people think that Windows 8 running on something that looks like an iPad should suddenly become a clamshell laptop. That conflation is dangerous. You don't need to choose between a real computer or an iPad, you likely need both.Think about the last meeting you were in where one of your cohorts brought their iPad. Yes, yes, poser, bla, bla. The important part though is how they turned their attention from the meeting to the data on the screen and back again in a fluid way that, hopefully, didn't piss off all the other participants.The iPad is very sympathetic to that environment because it's not the primary activity in the room. Each attendee almost certainly has a proper computer back at their desk, but sitting in a meeting clattering away at a keyboard doesn't work; which is why people actually switch modes and go into a meeting room to conflab in the first place. They're looking to get away from their computers and concentrate on each other. The interesting part about the iPad is that it's the first computing device that gets to go with their owners into that environment.What the OEMs have shown this week is that they understand that proposition not one jot. Hence the keyboards.SurfaceWedding a keyboard to a tablet doesn't make it a better tablet. It just makes an ugly mess. The Surface isn't ugly, because Microsoft has used what's currently the dirtiest of dirty words: "innovation", and made a keyboard that's sympathetic to the device.I know in my heart I'm never going to win my battle to banish the keyboard from the post-PC debate. But what I think will happen is that as far as the mobility story goes, the laptop form factor will continue to improve. There will always be some form of terminal optimised for data input, at least until we all have alittle AI as our constant companion.More to the point, that story is going to get more intense. It looks likeMicrosoft will use the strapline "Click in"to sell Surface. I don't think that "click" refers to a mouse - I think it's an allegory to the sound made by "clicking in" the keyboard. That's an easy wedge to drive into the iPad space, because people think keyboards are needed and the iPad doesn't have one.Windows 8 is fantastic, and there are some great pieces of kit coming out in the Ultrabook name that get the mobility/functionality balance right and let you do "real world". But these need to be augmented with low-cost, non-computers. If you want, call them "tablets".The crazy thing is that it doesn't have to be this way. Something which didn't get much play was thatSamsung had an innovation galleryon show. One of the laptops had a display on both sides of the lid. Virtually all of the tablets still had a keyboard option, but all put some distance between them and the "Right, so we just slap a clip-on hinge here and we're done, right?" paradigm. They're more Surface thanAsus Eee.What we now know, though, is that on the consumer side, Surface is probably the only game in town. It's the only model that is properly post-PC and can go toe-to-toe with the iPad's proposition. Then it's just a matter of getting the apps story and the marketing right.On the business side, the story is less clear. It's going to take the channel creating compelling Metro-style* solutions that runs on "good enough" hardware to make business think twice about enterprise-supply of iPads. But will Surface sell in business? Surely not. What CTO is going to buy a thousand units of a tablet from an OEM with zero experience in the market? That CTO will go out and buy HP, Dell, Lenovo, etc - they will buy from a vendor they already have experience of. So if you're hoping your company will buy you a Surface, you may be out of luck. You might just end up with a revamped netbook.* Metro-style, of course, refers to the Windows 8 app model based on the WinRT APIs, with the (unnamed) user interface design, and with fully trusted deployment. Or am Inow allowed to call it that…Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer and author based in the UK.  His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit.
Mirroring the fact that games of every conceivable stripe exist, so do developers with every imaginable type of collective character. Guildford-based Media Molecule exists at the cuddliest, most approachable end of the developer spectrum, generally seeming to hover above what can be a hard-nosed, cynical scene.It made its reputation on the back of two iterations of the irresistibly endearing, yet wildly innovative, LittleBigPlanet, and at last at Gamescom it was ready to unveil a new intellectual property.Called Tearaway, and built exclusively for the PS Vita, it made a huge initial splash by appearing to combine the Arts &amp; Crafts-style cuteness of LittleBigPlanet with more conventionally structured action-platform gameplay. We managed to catch up with a group of Media Molecule's prime movers, and to snatch some precious hands-on time with Tearaway.Tearaway is clearly very much lead designer Rex Crowle's baby – so how would he describe it? "It contains a lot of different concepts, but at its core it is an adventure game in which you guide this character called Iota, who is a messenger with a unique message for you in its head. And you are taking them through a paper world in order to get that message. But it's kind of a buddy-movie in that you, the player, are essentially a character in the game. You're a god-like being holding their whole world, and helping them on this adventure."Tearaway. By developer Media Molecule.Stick your fingers inWhen Media Molecule unveiled Tearaway at Sony's Gamescom press conference, two aspects stood out. First, as Crowle intimated, the entire game-world is made from paper, as is Iota, whose head is a slightly battered envelope. And second, it plays around with the concept of apparently real objects being able to enter the virtual world – for example, you will be able to apparently push your fingers, via the PS Vita's rear-touch panel, through the paper surface of the world, creating obstacles for Iota's Cyclops enemies.Dave Smith, Media Molecule technical director, gave an insight into the developer's mindset while describing Tearaway's initial starting point: "It started off when we first got hands-on with the Vita and just wanted to see fingers pushing into a game-world, because it's something you can't do on any other device."I'm always frustrated with front-touch interaction – I feel like I'm pawing at this glass box and I can't actually get inside. And then we worked on how we could make an environment for that kind of interaction, and paper seemed the perfect medium because it's so tactile. And it can be very subtle or very dramatic, depending on what kind of influences you have. Then we went into more of a game-jam phase, which coalesced around the idea of you being this character outside of the world, and holding it."Crowle expands on the theme of sticking your fingers into Tearaway's world: "When you try it, there really is an uncanny valley. Most people just play with it for 30 seconds, going: 'Hey, it's my finger'." He confirmed that there will be some kind of design-your-finger process before playing the game: "There will be different shaders, different skin-tones, different types – female and male. One of the great things was when Dave angled the mesh, knowing where your hand would be. So if you configure it as right-handed or left-handed, the effect would be even better."God-like powersMedia Molecule co-founder Alex Evans is keen to talk up the god-like-powers aspect of the game: "The god-like powers have really developed through the game jam. Rather than coming up with a game that uses the PS Vita's capabilities just for the sake of it, it's a game which, from its inception, has been for the PS Vita. So every feature we use shouldn't just be a one-off gimmick; it should be woven into the gameplay, then also milked more and more. You'll go: 'Well that back-touch feeling was cool for the drum-skins, but now, on this section, I can use it in a new way, and I can combine it with whatever.' That's the result of a year of cooking by Rex and Dave, in a room they've marked The Secret Treehouse."Tearaway. By developer Media Molecule.Origami character designAnother endlessly appealing aspect of the game is that you can print out and make the origami-style paper animals you encounter in Tearaway. Evans says: "I think that's really powerful. Some people will be crazily into it, and will build hundreds of these things. There are different ratings for models in the game – for example, a one-star rating, which would just be a single fold of paper. To take something from that game-world and have it left outside: that's a reminder of the adventure they had."Creative director Mark Healey adds: "That's basically how all the concept art is done for the game – it's made physically." Crowle chips in with: "I think everyone on the team has made something. The office has become more and more of a fire-hazard as we've been creating more of the world."Healey squares the circle: "You can, for example, use the camera to capture textures – you can, for example, print out a paper elk, colour it and recapture it with the PS Vita. Because in the game you meet characters that go: 'Do you mind giving me a new skin – I'm feeling a bit bare?' That's just one link in the chain that takes you back and forth between the two worlds."Hands-onBefore grabbing a PS Vita running the game, we asked whether it will be a single-path or open-world game. Crowle characterised it thus: "It's not a level-to-level structure – there is a relatively condensed, rich world in which you can find some things that not everyone else has seen. But also there are some channelled areas where you need to use some more hardcore skills to get through. So you get a good blend of playfulness and slightly more sandboxy exploration, but then also some action-based areas."The area we sampled made quite heavy use of the PS Vita's rear-touch pad, with mainly platform-style gameplay. For the most part it involved manoeuvring Iota to seemingly inaccessible areas by moving him (with the left stick) onto drum-skins, which vibrated with a tap on the requisite area of the rear-touch pad, sending Iota into the air.Cleverly, Media Molecule explained that the PS Vita's accelerometers were also in play, so it could tell how hard you had tapped the rear touch-pad. And we also saw how gameplay conventions could evolve throughout Tearaway: another level saw Iota beset by Cyclops enemies, and the plan was to move him around to entice Cyclops onto drum-skins, so they could be propelled vertically into cages hanging above them.Tearaway will also use the PS Vita's front touch-screen, and its ability to sense tilting, and the (admittedly very early – the game is due at an unspecified time in 2013) impression we got was that while it may feel most like a platform game, that most enduring and venerable of genres, it will nevertheless be shot through with freshness and ingenuity, in a similar manner to Miyamoto epics like Super Mario Galaxy and 64. And when you finish it, Media Molecule promises that you will see Iota ascend from the virtual to the real world, so he can deliver the message in his head which, somehow, will be customised individually for everyone who plays the game.Tearaway could have been Media Molecule's Difficult Third Album, but it seems to have found the requisite inspiration lurking within the PS Vita.• Steve Boxer was taken to Gamescom by Sony
It's time for the first of our monthly Windows Phone apps roundups, which will sit alongside the weekly iOS and Android articles – as the flow of apps for Microsoft-powered devices increases, this may move to a weekly piece too.Note, games aren't included in this roundup, because there's a separate weekly post for all smartphone and tablet games, including the Xbox Live titles that are released for Windows Phone.Read on for the last month's selection (give or take a few days stretching into July, to mop up some good apps that were released then):CrackleStreaming films service Crackle is now available on Windows Phone in the US, UK, Canada and Australia. It has a catalogue of free movies and TV shows to watch, including Seinfeld, with 20 more being added every month. The streaming works over 3G, 4G or Wi-Fi.The TimesBritish newspaper The Times launched its official Windows Phone app right at the start of August, offering daily editions of The Times and Sunday Times reformatted for smartphones. A 30-day trial is included, but after that point a Times subscription is required.Nokia City LensNokia has been releasing a steady stream of exclusive Windows Phone apps as it seeks to differentiate its Lumia handsets. City Lens emerged from beta in August, and is an augmented reality browser that aims to highlight points of interest around you.ESPN Radio"Take your sports wherever your ears go!" promises the chirpy Marketplace listing for ESPN's radio app. It's focused on the US – so expect more of the other kind of football – with live broadcasts of ESPN's local radio stations and a selection of podcasts available.Heathrow Airport GuideTravelling through London's Heathrow Airport regularly? There's a Windows Phone app for that now. Like other flight apps, it offers live flight tracking and notifications, but also terminal maps, and listings for shops and restaurants.Welcome HomeThis is another app for Lumia handsets, and specifically for people switching from iPhone, Android and BlackBerry smartphones to Nokia's range of Windows Phones. The idea being it helps transfer across contacts, calendar dates, photos, songs and videos, as well as recommending apps that match the ones on your existing handset.GlamourConde Nast's latest magazine-related app is a Windows Phone version of Glamour, promising news, fashion and photos in a quick, easy-to-read format. It's very much a news app rather than digital issues of the print magazine, though.627.AMThis app describes itself as "an attractive and intuitive daily assistant". Translation: alarm clock with bells on (not literally). Besides waking you up, it offers a simple weather forecast and note-taking facilities in an elegant Metro-friendly design.Base CRMThis isn't a consumer app: instead it's for sales teams in companies, to track leads, sales and contacts. Everything synchronises with Base's web-app, to ensure colleagues are kept up to speed.SplashIDThis app falls between corporate and personal use: it's for storing sensitive usernames, passwords, bank account details and other data that you need to remember, but don't want to store electronically without encrypting it. Again, data can be synchronised – this time between SplashID software on computers and other mobile devices.That's our selection, but what have you been using on your Windows Phone in the last month? Make your recommendations in a comment.
As you may have seen yesterday, the newspaper's G2 section featured an excellentautumn arts preview, featuring the best books, films and dance events to look forward to in the coming months. All the major forms of entertainment and artistic media were included... with one reasonably minor exception. Games.So, on the off-chance there are people out there more likely to be looking forward to Assassin's Creed III than Der Ring des Nibelungen at the Royal Opera house, here are the big titles of this autumn's release schedule.We'll be doing an indie and smartphone round-up at some point too, but that takes longer because those crazy kids don't believe in release schedules. For now, though, get your Amazon wish lists ready, here are the mainstream treats of the autumn.Borderlands 2(PC, PS3, Xbox 360)The maniacal 'looter shooter' returns with a new bunch of mercenaries raiding the planet Pandora for all its treasures while an evil corporation seeks to clear our all the undesirables. That's you by the way. Beautiful cell-shaded visuals mix with anarchic humour and a huge range of weapons to produce entertainingly eccentric carnage. Yes. Yes please.21 SeptemberF1 2012(PC, PS3, Xbox 360)Codemasters has reinvented the concept of the motorsports simulation with its enthusiastic, knowledgeable and exciting F1 titles and this year's instalment should continue the good work. Along with all the cars, drivers and circuits from the 2012 season, F1 2012 boasts a Young Driver Test which teaches newcomers the basics of F1 driving. Luckily, I don't think there's a theory test.21 SeptemberTokyo Jungle(PS3 – digital only)Created by Sony's Japan studio with indie developer Crispy's this is easily the weirdest game on the list – and hopefully that won't put you off. Set in a post-apocalyptic Tokyo the game gets you to choose an animal from a large selection (including dogs, kangaroos, birds and big cats) and then simply survive on the mean streets, finding food, battling other critters and looking for mates. It's an astonishing mix of genuinely grim sci-fi adventure and cutesy pet sim.26 SeptemberFifa 13(3DS, PC, PS3, Vita, Wii, Xbox 360)The behemoth of the sports sim calendar returns with some major mechanical tweaks including improved close-control and greater physicality. If you're connected to the web, it will also pull in real-world footie news and use it to colour your virtual experience. And of course, all the players, major teams and key world leagues are in place.28 SeptemberResident Evil 6(PC, PS3, Xbox 360)Survival horror returns in this 'something for everyone' adventure, which provides three separate stories based around a worldwide zombie virus outbreak. Favourite characters such as Leon Kennedy and Chris Redfield return, all of them showcasing different playstyles from Resi history. Could be an all-encompassing return to form, or a big pile of zombie droppings. We'll play it anyway.2 OctoberWar of the Roses(PC)A cult hit at several gaming events over the summer, War of the Roses is a squad-based medieval combat sim, in which players join either the House of York or their Lancastrian rivals and indulge in tactical melee combat. The visuals are astonishing and while the multiplayer is clearly going to be bloody awesome, the single-player campaign promises depth and variety too.2 OctoberDishonored(PC, PS3, Xbox 360)We called this dark steampunk adventure a game-of-the-year contender when we previewed it last month, and we're sticking with that. Created by some of the key people behind Deus Ex and Half-Life, it's an open-world adventure in which a betrayed assassin seeks revenge in a sprawling quasi-Victorian city. And you can posses rats.12 OctoberXCOM: Enemy Unknown(PC, PS3, Xbox 360)Back in the early nineties, the XCOM turn-based strategy games gave players the chance to command a secret government agency against alien attacks. Now Firaxis, the developer behind the famed Civilization series, has re-invented this tense and engaging experience for the modern era. It looks and plays beautifully, and will see off plenty of those long sodden November evenings.12 OctoberFable: The Journey(Xbox 360)Peter Molyneux has now left Lionhead, but his final project at the studio was this much-debated Kinect-only fantasy road movie. Lead character Gabriel must travel across the dangerous land of Albion to rediscover his lost tribe and save a fair maiden. Along the way, he gets to look after his horse, using motion controls to ride and interact with it. Sort of a pet sim RPG then. What could possibly go wrong?12 OctoberSkylanders Giants(3DS, PS3, Wii, Xbox 360)Last year, Activision scored a massive hit with its ingenious Skylanders game, which combined collectible toy figures with an approachable family RPG. This time, they're adding a new bunch of – yes – giant figures, as well as a larger world and other extras. If you're the parent of a Skylanders fan, you're already being nagged about this.19 OctoberForza Horizon(Xbox 360)A fresh take on the leading Xbox driving game series, swapping circuit-based thrills for a more rangey, open structure. The action takes place in and around a fictitious racing event in Colorado, where AI drivers can be challenged to competitions on the spot. To underline the festival feel, the soundtrack has been curated by Rob da Bank, so expect plenty of dubstep with your exotic vehicles.26 OctoberLego Lord of the Rings(3DS, DS, PC, PS3, Vita, Wii, Xbox 360)Yep, another action adventure in the seemingly endless Lego series, but this one has a slightly darker feel and it cleverly uses dialogue from the movies to bring some authenticity to the setpiece-hopping narrative. We played it at E3 and enjoyed the ensemble feel with Frodo, Aragorn, Gandalf, Legolas, Gimli and Boromir all taking part on screen.26 OctoberMedal of Honor: Warfighter(PC, PS3, Xbox 360)This hyper-earnest military shooter has angered some by seeking to portray real-life combat zones and a range of authentic spec ops units. However, developer Danger Close isobsessedwith respecting the lives and roles of the combatants it depicts and we're hoping that the game's apparent attempts to show the cost of warfare on the families of the soldiers is revealing and not mawkish. Expect top-end visuals and multiplayer, too.26 OctoberAssassin's Creed III(PC, PS3, Xbox 360)The time-spanning assassination adventure returns, this time bringing its blend of acrobatics and swordplay to the American revolution. The new lead character, Connor, is half British, half Native American, which puts him in an interesting position when the fight to control the continent begins. Expect lavish set-piece battles, beautiful visuals and some interesting multiplayer options.31 OctoberNeed For Speed: Most Wanted(PC, PS3, Xbox 360)In 2010, Guildford-based developer Criterion revolutionalised the Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit series, adding gorgeous visuals, a sexy handling engine and the brilliant Autolog system, which let friends leave highscores for each other within the game world. Most Wanted is updating all the social elements, as well as providing a huge open city to explore and race in. And the multiplayer challenges are enormous fun.2 NovemberHalo 4(Xbox 360)Bungie has gone and now Halo development duties are with Microsoft's own 343 Industries studio – so can the spirit of Master Chief survive? The jury is out at the moment, but with an epic story featuring the long dormant Forerunners, and an interesting multiplayer structure that ties the action closely to the campaign missions, this is an interesting attempt to kickstart a whole new Halo trilogy.6 NovemberPaper Mario: Sticker Star(3DS)Nintendo's cutesy handicraft role-playing series returns, this time in semi-glorious 3D, and with a fresh new gameplay element that challenges you to peel off and collect colourful stickers from the typically adorable environments. The 3DS needs some true must-have titles this Christmas and surely little Paper Mario can be posted in that pigeon hole.11 NovemberCall of Duty: Black Ops 2(PC, PS3, Xbox 360)Okay, okay, so this series has some serious detractors – and Treyarch's decision to set a Black Ops sequel in a near-future America under attack from its own drone army, has been questioned. But, hey, there do seem to be some genuine attempts to update the multi-million dollar recipe with some strategic gameplay and refreshed multiplayer. And might this be the last major Call of Duty title for this console generation?13 NovemberHitman: Absolution(PC, PS3, Xbox 360)Square Enix may have shot itself right in the foot with thatcontroversial 'sexy nun' trailer, but a new instalment in the Hitman series of stealthy assassinate-'em-ups will always pique the interest of fans who remember the glory days of Agent 47. Can the bald killer overcome sexism to reinstate his murderous gaming regime? Don't bet against him.20 NovemberDisney Epic Mickey 2: The Power of Two (PC, PS3, Xbox 360)While the first title had some interesting ideas, melding a platforming adventure with painting elements and Disney history, it was let down by a roving camera and some repetition. This time, developer Junction Point says it has fixed the broken stuff and added a co-op element that sees Mickey teaming up with his predecessor Oswald the Lucky Rabbit. One for the family to snuggle around this winter.23 NovemberFar Cry 3(PC, PS3, Xbox 360)On the face of it, this looks like yet another shooter sequel with a superhuman lead character and dozens of faceless, vaguely ethnic enemies. But Ubisoft Montreal is promising that its island-based adventure, mixing open-world exploration with bizarre characters and a strange colonial story, is something much more offbeat and interesting. Heart of Darkness: the video game?30 NovemberNew Little King's Story(Vita)Released on the Wii in 2009, the original Little King's Story was a glorious combination of real-time strategy, RPG and life sim, with players controlling a new monarch in a rich fantasy kingdom. Its enduring cult success has led to the promising Vita remake, featuring a more naturalistic art style and a refreshed story.TBA NovemberFootball Manager 2013(PC/Mac)You know what to expect, of course. A huge database of players and teams as well as an intricate simulation of the manager's life, from training and tactics to coping with player meltdowns and media scandals. Expect the core engine and visuals to be overhauled at the very least, but I predict some more dramatic additions this time round.TBA November
Tuesday! Good old Tuesday, eh? Okay, it's no Wednesday, but at least it's not Monday, it's got that going for it. Anyways, did you do any start-of-the-week gaming last night then?
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMark Zuckerberg and the founder-as-CEO problem &gt;&gt; GigaOmShould founder CEOs remain?Insiders and investor alike talk about how Jim Balsillie and Michael Lazaridis made sense as co-CEOs for a time at RIM, but eventually their commitment to a certain vision changed from a benefit to a gigantic flaw. The result? Billions of dollars in market value destroyed almost overnight.To take a smaller example, Twitter swapped out co-founder Evan Williams and replaced him with Dick Costolo, someone with no personal stake in the early vision of the network. Has that been a good thing or a bad thing? It has certainly changed the orientation of the company towards revenue-generating models like advertising -- a move that appears to be driven primarily by a desire to justify the company's alleged market value. Would it have been better to stick with a founder as CEO? And if it wasn't better for Twitter, then why is it better for Facebook?Oscar Pistorius is wrong on stride length - Alan Oliveira took more &gt;&gt; Guardian SportIn beating Oscar Pistorius, Brazilian paralympic sprinter Alan Oliveira took more, not fewer, strides:So, for Oliveira, his improved performance may be due to the blade length, it may be due to his technical skill, it may be due to his improved strength, it may be due to some weight loss. You see the slippery slope here? Only if his height was measured and is continuously measured can one know with certainty this answer.But even then, an athlete may discover they are a few inches shorter than the upper limit imposed by some rule based on ratios, and they can, quite legally, add to their blades. What is wrong with that? I'd say nothing -- they are simply correcting and then optimising what nature did not provide, aren't they? Their mistake was making their prosthetics too short the first time, and they should be allowed to add height within reason. Again, welcome to the slippery slope of technology in sport.Everyone's a critic: The pleasure and pain of Amazon reviews &gt;&gt; Louise Voss &amp; Mark EdwardsI would like to see Amazon change its policies so that only verified purchasers can leave reviews. This would ensure that only genuine readers are reviewing it. It wouldn't be foolproof, and would stop people who've bought the book in a shop from reviewing it, but at the moment the whole system is flawed and untrustworthy.The other thing that is intensely frustrating as a writer is when reviewers put whacking great spoilers in their critique, giving away the ending. Especially galling if it's a twist. And this is not against Amazon's T&amp;Cs. This gives the malicious sock-puppet type another way of sabotaging you.Notable that IMDB - owned by Amazon - will block reviewers who post spoilers without signposting them.Who inherits your iTunes library? &gt;&gt; MarketWatchIs this where the Bruce Willis "story" was born?And one's heirs stand to lose huge sums of money. "I find it hard to imagine a situation where a family would be OK with losing a collection of 10,000 books and songs," says Evan Carroll, co-author of "Your Digital Afterlife." "Legally dividing one account among several heirs would also be extremely difficult."Part of the problem is that with digital content, one doesn't have the same rights as with print books and CDs. Customers own a license to use the digital files -- but they don't actually own them.January 2012: Nokia design chief hints at Lumia phones with NFC and wireless charging &gt;&gt; Guardian TechnologyFrom January 2012:"If you can take away a moving part and make it [the phone] more beautiful in the placement of the components, we'll do it, so that's something where we can certainly keep improving," Ahtisaari told the Guardian. "Take it to the extreme, and why are there any connectors?"Exclusive: Nokia Lumia 920 to include wireless charging, 32GB storage, and 8-megapixel camera &gt;&gt; The VergeA magnetic strip will be hidden in the back of the Lumia 920 to support wireless charging, and we're told it will support theQi wireless power standard-- making it compatible with other wireless charging products. Aside from the charging aspect, Nokia's Lumia 920 will also include 32GB of device storage, 1GB of RAM, and a 1.5GHz dual-core processor. We have also been able to confirm that it will include a 4.5in HD display.Very impressive (presumably it uses a stand?).Samsung smuggles new Series 9 prototype into IFA: 2,560 x 1,440 on a matte display (hands-on) &gt;&gt; EngadgetThis 13-inch Series 9 WQHD Ultrabook beams Windows 8 on 2,560 x 1,440 display (oh yes), making a visible leap beyond the existing Series 9 13-incher, which sticks to a more typical 1,600 x 900. Better still, the surface of the screen has a gentle matte finish. The engineering sample arrived in the Samsung spokesperson's hands just seven days ago. The resolution matches ASUS' high-grade gamer monitor in pixels, if falling ever so slightly short of the Retina Display on Apple's newest MacBook model.(Thanks @lollygagging for the link.)The next iPhone will have... &gt;&gt; DilbertWe could probably link to Dilberts at least once a day, but what if we overdosed? (Thanks @wittenfrog for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
The head of Foundem, the British search engine company which first triggered an antitrust investigation into Google by the European commission,has warnedthat the search engine company faces "a tsunami of follow-on litigation" if it does not alter its search results in a negotiated settlement.Shivaun Raff, co-founder and chief executive of the company, said that Google's need to avoid huge lawsuits from companies affected by its previous dominance means that Joaquin Almunia's antitrust division at the EC is "in a far stronger bargaining position than many commentators realise. Anyone suggesting that Google will get away with superficial remedies … is almost certainly mistaken."Almunia began an antitrust investigation into Google's dominance in search in November 2010, and after a series of meetings with chairman Eric Schmidt, in May 2012 issued an ultimatum to the company,setting out four areas where the EC felt Google was abusing its dominance, and giving it weeks to respond.Google did so on the last day of the 2 July deadline.Almunia is soon expected to announce more details about the progress of discussions with Google. In July the search giant wrote to him offering a number of tweaks to various elements of its business in Europe, after he set out a number of fields – especially Google's apparent favouring of its own properties such as YouTube – in which the EC was seeking remedies to Google's dominance.Raff said that if Google cannot agree a "settlement agreement" with the EC – without recourse to the courts – Almunia would have to force it through the courts. That could lead to an "infringement decision", which would in turn open Google up to lawsuits from companies including Foundem, Ciao and especially its arch-rival Microsoft."Unbeknownst to its shareholders, Google's increasingly anti-competitive practices have been quietly accruing billions of dollars of antitrust liabilities," Raff said.However, by settling with the EC, Google would avoid any admission of guilt and such lawsuits.Foundem alleged in its complaint in November 2009 – updated in February 2010, and finallyacted on by the EC in November 2010– that Google has favoured its own products while pushing rivals' down its search engine pages.On the key question, of search, Raff suggested that Google could modify its results to use "clear and conspicuous labelling" for its own products, as it does with adverts, allied to a requirement to "crawl, index and rank its own services in exactly the same way [as] everyone else".For other issues being considered by the EC, including the "scraping" of answers from sites which then appear in search results – obviating the need to click on a link and give the site traffic – Raff said that services such as price comparisons, flight search links and mortgage comparisons should have to be treated as separate services, rather than "answers", as Google presently does.But she said that a key element used by Google to knock out spam sites from its index – identifying sites with a high proportion of "copied" content which are intended to deliver users to other websites – also hits "vertical" search companies such as her own. That must be prevented, she added.Raff said that the EC appears to have decided already that Google broke antitrust law by pushing its own products ahead of rivals': "the settlement procedure being offered to Google (under Article 9 of the EU Antitrust Regulations) can only be used in cases where the commission's investigation has already concluded (albeit provisionally) that an infringement has taken place."The upshot, she added, is that the remedies "are likely to have a dramatic impact on Google's power to stack the deck in its own favour. The success or failure of Google's secondary services, in travel search, price comparison, social networking, and so on, will once more depend on its ability to innovate, rather than on its ability to hijack the traffic of its competitors."
On hearing the "news" that Bruce Willis (you know, the film star) was going to hurtle into Apple's lift shafts (even if it doesn't have any - does it have any? Anyhow) and intended to sue the company so that he could leave his iTunes collection to his children, what did the world's news organisations do? Ask Bruce Willis? Ask his agent?Nah. Why bother with that when you can just repeat the story? Much easier just to rewrite, rephrase and repeat. (Thismay remind you of something) Pretty much everyone seems to have done this. (Yes, yes. The Guardian too.)So where did this story come from? It appears to have started, in print at least, with the Sunday Times and its (paywalled) story "it's iHard as Willis fights Apple".That starts:HE WAS the actor who refused to Die Hard. Now the Hollywood star Bruce Willis is preparing to take on the technology giant Apple in a battle over who owns his vast collection of digital music when he dies.But of course the iTunes terms means he doesn't "own" his vast collection "downloaded over the years".Except - waitaminute. Is someone seriously suggesting that Willis hasboughtall that "vast collection from the iTunes Music Store? Given his age (57) one might have just a faint suspicion that most of his collection would be on CDs. (This is a guess, but given that Willis grew up in the age of Vinyl, and went through the Ages of 8-track, Cassette tape, MiniDisc, and CD before arriving at the present Age of Download, wouldn't alotof his stuff be on CD?)Anyhow, the Sunday Times continues - without any supporting quote from Willis, his agent, family or lawyer - by saying that"Willis has asked his advisers to set up family trusts to "hold" his downloads, which according to friends include thousands of classic rock tunes and British acts such as the Beatles, the Rolling Stones and Led Zeppelin as well as modern performers including Adele."Led Zeppelin? Well, you can get all the Led Zep tracks, but they've been on CD which you could rip to digital form for much longer. And Willis is quite the computer geek - hepopped up once in a video chat, as we recorded in 2007.So elements of this story are awry already, and we're only in the fourth paragraph. Still no quote from Willis.And his last appearance is in the fifth paragraph, where we learn that "he's also supporting legal moves in five American states that will give downloaders more rights over their music collections." No link to the actions, though this is the first inkling that Willis might actually be doing something.Still, without any actual quotes from Willis or his agents, lawyers, etc, nobody would follow this up and just write a story, would they? Without any sources?Bruce Willis suing Apple stories on iTunes - none of them fact-checked….oh.Still, some people held off writing this, in search of actual, y'know, facts. Stand upDave Leeat BBC News, andJennifer-Anne Scottat Computer Weekly. They, at least, managed to punt some questions at the Willis estate.Not a single news org has a jot of verification between them. Shocking state of affairs. &mdash; Dave Lee (@davelee)September 3, 2012For a while, all was quiet. And then on Monday afternoon Willis's wife, Emma Heming-Willis, got on her Twitter feed. First someone tweeted her:#itunes#BruceWillis#will@emmahemingjust tell Bruce to give his daughter his login and password to PC and iTunes, he will live forever ) &mdash; RichieD :) (@RichieD_)September 3, 2012To which Willis's wife replied:@richied_it's not a true story &mdash; Emma Heming-Willis (@EmmaHeming)September 3, 2012So now let the search begin for the origin of this. There's anarticle from Marketwatch, from 23 August, which bears an odd resemblance - but it has no mention of legal challenge. It's all talk about Estates and Wills.Which brings us to a horrible pause: might it be that someone saw a mention of "Estates and Wills" and thought it was "estates andWillis"?If you know where this story originated, please tell us in the comments. (Yes, we already know the Guardian did the story. That's higher up.)
Is Bruce Willis just like the rest of us? Did he, too, click on "I Agree" without reading the small print when buying music on iTunes? It has been reported that Willis is cross that he isn't legally entitled tobequeath his digital music collection, held on his "many, many iPods", to his children when he dies. He was said to be consulting his lawyers about establishing a family trust to "hold" the music in an attempt to bypass the law – although his wife has since denied any such legal moveson Twitter. Whatever the truth, it raises an interesting issue."A lot of people will get a similar shock when they realise this is the situation," says Jim Killock, executive director of the Open Rights Group, which campaigns for digital rights. "There will soon be a lot of upset customers, not just for Apple, but also for Amazon and all the other companies selling digital content, such as books, which operate these licence agreements. We have no rights over the digital goods we buy. The laws were written to prevent piracy, but treat everyone as a thief."Joshy Thomas, an intellectual property lawyer, says that most iTunes users probably don't realise that when they pay for content all they're actually doing is paying for an assurance they won't be sued for having that file on their computers. "Say I own a horse. I can give you permission to ride it every Tuesday, but it is still my property. It also doesn't mean your child has permission to ride it every Tuesday after your death. This is the situation as it stands. Apple could fix this tomorrow, though, by simply changing its small print."Thomas says the issue of who owns our "digital footprint" has been growing for a while now: "People are just starting to talk about this. For example, what happens to our Facebook page when we die? Or our email  archive? Willis needs to tread carefully, though. By forcing a change in licensing agreements, he could potentially rob his fellow artists of income. Apple is only the middle-man here."
For the two technology bloggers from India, it looked like a dream invitation from the electronics giant Samsung: it would pay for their flights and accommodation to cover the IFA trade fair in Berlin, where the season's biggest tech announcements are made, under an outreach programme called"Samsung Mobilers".But the dream turned sour when Clinton Jeff and a colleague were told on arriving that they would be issued with uniforms and expected to work as staff on the booths – showing off new Samsung products to the press, rather than writing about them.And when the duo protested, Samsung withdrew their funding – leaving them stranded thousands of miles from home without a plane ticket back, nor means to pay their hotel bill. They were saved when a representative from Nokia, the Finnish phone company, stepped in to help the pair, sorting out flights and hotel costs.Though Samsung said there had been a "misunderstanding", the Guardian has established that France Quiqueré, a French technology blogger, haslevelled a similar complaint, which the Guardian has established is also against Samsung.The incidents have exposed a dark underbelly to technology reporting and blogging – in which companies offer rewards to bloggers, who often do not acknowledge that they are writing posts not for their news value to readers, but because they want to get free products and even trips. Not disclosing such motives is against Advertising Standards Authority rules laid down in 2009, as well as the consumer protection law, as shown by a2010 investigationby the Office of Fair Trading against a company called Handpicked Media.Quiqueré, who has been a "brand ambassador" for Samsung since 2010, was told she had won a competition to come at the company's expense to the Olympics in London in August, along with a group of bloggers. She went expecting to be a guest at events, because Samsung was a major sponsor of the Olympics, for which it paid more than $100m.Instead the group found that the six-day trip involved barely any visits to events. Instead they were meant to create promotional videos and photos, and fill out daily reports on what they had done. They were also instructed to upload videos of promotional events to their personal YouTube accounts – an instruction that Quiqueré resisted strongly. She says that by the end of the five-day trip she saw two events – a table-tennis semifinal and a volleyball eliminator. "We didn't have the chance to see the Olympic stadium or participate [in] other festive events related to the Olympics," Quiqueré complained. "The most embarrassing thing is the surreal feeling of being trapped."All the bloggers were part of Samsung's "Mobilers" programme, a multi-country PR scheme described in the UK as "an exclusive network of bloggers who are first in line to trial and review the latest Samsung products, for free!". The scheme is aimed at bloggers seen as influential by Samsung. They are encouraged to write posts about Samsung products – with subjects suggested multiple times a week – for which they earn points towards "rewards".But the Guardian has established that many of those who blog in this way do not acknowledge that they are receiving rewards for doing so – contravening the law.The plight of the Indian bloggers wasfirst exposed by technology news site The Next Web, which calls the Mobilers programme "Samsung's fanboy factory" (a "fanboy" being an uncritical supporter of a brand, group or team). However, the pair have been criticised by peers, who said Jeff and his colleague were naive and misunderstood the communications from Samsung India.Jeff and his companion blogger from India, who does not want to be named, were members of the Samsung India Mobilers programme. But they were shocked by their experience at IFA, one of the world's biggest technology shows. They insist they had told Samsung that they would only travel if they could work as independent journalists and look at other companies' stands at the show. Such opportunities are rare for Indian bloggers; they had thought that the quid pro quo would be to get early views of new Samsung products which they could blog about – thus satisfying themselves and Samsung.However, Samsung representatives at the show insisted that they had agreed to be "promoters" of the product, which entailed wearing a uniform and showing off the products at its booth. When Jeff and his colleague declined to take part, they say, a Samsung India representative told them that they would be brought back immediately, unless they agreed to appear at a Samsung event wearing company T-shirts.After doing that, Jeff talked to a friend who contacted Nokia, which agreed to pay the duo's plane flights and hotel costs without, Jeff says, requiring any coverage or mention in return.Samsung said in a statement: "Samsung Mobilers is a voluntary community of active Samsung mobile device users, who are offered the opportunity to participate in our marketing events across the world. At these events, all activities they undertake are on a voluntary basis. No activities are forced upon them."We regret there was a misunderstanding between the Samsung Mobilers coordinators and the relevant blogger, as we understand he was not sufficiently briefed on the nature of Samsung Mobilers' activities at IFA 2012. We have been attempting to get in touch with him. We respect the independence of bloggers to publish their own stories."The Mobilers marketing programme is open to bloggers, though Samsung determines who takes part. In the UK, it has more than 50 members in the scheme, and dozens more in every other country where it runs.Members are given "missions" in which they are asked to promote products or features. On the UK site, for example, thecurrentone is to showcase the functionality of the S-Voice speech control system on the Galaxy S3 smartphone, while others have madesimpler requests: "please could you write and share a short post about the Samsung Olympic Pins competition?" or morerecently"create something to show the best of the exclusive Samsung Official Top 40 app".Members then take up the "mission" by writing posts to fulfil them, for which they earn points. One example is at droid-den, which earned a "Mobiler point" for apostabout the Samsung Galaxy S3's "pop-up play". The post and page contains no mention that it was written at the urging or for a reward from Samsung, although Rachid Otsmane-Elhaou, based in Manchester, who runs the blog and wrote the post, acknowledges his membership of the scheme in the blog's "about" page.Otsmane-Elhaou did not respond to a Guardian request for comment. But other posts by Samsung Mobilers bloggers also failed to disclose their participation in the programme.Rich Leigh, co-founder of bloggabase.com, a blog database that aims to connect bloggers with marketers, said: "Bloggers should make it clear that they are being paid or being given freebies to review. Whether this is done in an obvious way within the body of the text or a simple declaration at the end of the post, it's always within the blogger's best interests to keep their nose clean here. It'll help build reader trust and ensure transparency."Sally Whittle, founder of Tots100, reckoned to be the UK's largest network of parent blogs, and who runs her own siteWho's the Mummy, said: "Disclosure is a real hot topic – most bloggers know they should disclose, but there's no single way to do it. I see things being marked as 'sponsored', 'featured' and all sorts of things in between. We try and educate people that disclosure is a legal requirement but I think sometimes people are wary of putting off their readers, or being seen as having 'sold out' – readership can go down on posts where freebies are being received by the blogger."She added: "There have been a few cases of people being called out for not disclosing – there was a recent kerfuffle with a beauty box provider, for example, where bloggers were writing about the boxes but not disclosing they'd got them free – and the boxes they received seemed to be better than the ones readers were purchasing."Rachel Clarke, head of social media at the marketing agency Momentum UK, said: "Legally, bloggers should disclose this because it's paid advertising." She said she was surprised by the reports of the bloggers' experience at IFA with Samsung, which she said has "done a lot of good promotions in the past".But she said as companies and bloggers interact more frequently – with companies trying to build up a groundswell of coverage for products that news sites might not – misunderstandings and differences in expectation could arise more often. "There's a growing expectation from bloggers that they will get VIP treatment, but that might not be what companies are offering," she said.Whittle said sometimes it is the brands which pressure bloggers not to disclose their involvement: "we did a survey a month or so back and found that one in three of our members has been asked by a PR or SEO agency not to disclose a freebie or paid content – because the brands want links but don't want to risk being clobbered by Google for buying follow links. Some bloggers have had a lot of pressure on this score, with some brands asking for refunds or withholding payment if a blogger discloses a freebie or payment on a post."
More than 250,000 posts have been created onApp.net, the service launched by US entrepreneur Dalton Caldwell as an alternative to Twitter – or as its slogan puts it: "a real-time social feed without the ads".Caldwell revealed the milestone in a posting on App.net, adding "I would estimate ~50% of posts were created by third party clients, which is a good sign. Hopefully that percentage continues to grow."Caldwelllaunched a crowdfunding campaignin July to raise $500,000 from individuals to fund App.net's development, and by mid-August had secured just over $800,000 for the project. The service launched that monthin an alpha version, and early backers have been getting to grips with it since.So far, more than 17,500 people are using the alpha service. Caldwell's hope that the percentage of posts from third-party clients will grow looks set to be fulfilled, given that the first Android and iPhone App.net clients are now available to download.Hooha for App.netandAppNet Rhinoboth launched last week on, respectively, the Google Play store and App Store. Both use App.net's API to enable users to read their streams, compose new posts and replies, and follow or unfollow other users.Both apps are free, but Caldwell's team is working on plans to help developers build business models around App.net. In ablog post in July, he mooted a revenue-share system: "What if we took the subscription revenue we got from members, and did a recurring, monthly revenue share with 3rd-party devs?" he wrote."For the sake of argument, let's assume a 50/50 split would make sense. In this hypothetical proposal, if in a given month an App.net member signs into a single 3rd-party client, that developer will get $2.08 from App.net. If a member uses 5 different 3rd-party apps that month, the revenue will be split between those 5 3rd-party developers on a pro-rata basis, probably based on how much the user actually used the client."Caldwell admitted that the reporting for such a system could be "insanely complicated" in some cases, especially if developers tried to game the system. Even so, he's hoping to come up with answers that will enable developers to distribute their apps for free, but still get paid for usage – thus enabling them to stay as ad-free as the main service.A number of developers are working on clients: adirectory of third-party App.net appson GitHub lists 26 mobile clients in development for iOS, Android and Windows Phone.All this, of course, is happening at the same time as Twitter is facing scrutiny overchanges to its terms for third-party developers, including per-hour limits and obligatory authentication for calls to Twitter's back-end database, and changes to its other "rules of the road" for developers.A good time for App.net to be presenting itself as an open, developer-friendly alternative, even if it is still extremely early days for the service in terms of user numbers and features.Work is progressing fast on the latter front, and there is more help from external sources too. IFTTT, the innovative site that helps people link actions on one web service to another, now has anApp.net channel.Among its uses will be setting up automatic triggers to post tweets to App.net and vice versa – Caldwellsays he prefers the latter, since it will mean less of Twitter's t.co shortened URLs appearing on App.net's stream.
Alongside Bioshock, Borderlands is the most interesting, multifaceted shooter of the last decade. It's not just the cunning mix of gameplay components – the incendiary FPS thrills of Halo, the joyous loot-grabbing of Diablo – it's the way in which it constructs a world that is at once fanciful and alien, but also hugely redolent of our own. As Christian Donlan put it so eloquently inhis Borderlands 2 previewfor Eurogamer, Borderlands wasn't just made in America, itisAmerica, with its vast open spaces, its factionalism, its love of fine weaponry. Borderlands is funny but it means something.And in the forthcoming sequel, where players once again become scavengers looking for treasures on the wasteland planet of Pandora, there is a renewed sense of anti-establishment satire. The antagonist is Handsome Jack, the CEO of the evil Hyperion Corporation, looking to clean out this dustball of all its weird clans and bandits. With your improvised weapons and lawless communities, you're the Old West, standing in the way of the railroad of capitalist progress.But yeah, it's also funny, and Handsome Jack has been designed more for humour than to provide some sort of evil nemesis in the traditional gaming mould."Ahhh, can't we just have fun?!" groans Gearbox co-founder Brian Martel, exactly on cue.We're sitting in a tiny meeting room in the business centre at Gamescom and the conversation has turned to the other shooters that were around at the time Borderlands was released; all those earnest military blasters with their cardboard cutout spec ops soldiers and dead-eyed patriotic fervour."Games can be so serious, whether it's about soldiers in the Middle East or some megalomaniacal guy trying to take over Earth," he continues. "We've all played through those scenarios so many times! That's one of the fun things about Borderlands: the guys making the game are having as much fun as the players. And it's different every time – we haven't seen all the weapons in the game, it's impossible. It's almost like a hobby – it's what games should be".Weapons are the engine of the Borderlands experience. As in the first title, players will be able to pick up modular guns constructed from a series of random parts, all with different specs. The thousands of possible firearms should end up suiting every individual playing style.There are several fictional manufacturers in the game, each with its own identity, marketing and approach to design. While Vladof promotes its Kalashnikov-style high-fire-rate sub-machine guns with revolutionary zeal, Maliwan pushes its high-tech blasters as artworks in the gallery of war. Gearbox has even produced promotional videos for all the weaponry – you can find them all on2K Games' YouTube page, and they're worth a look, if only for the ridiculous care and detail that's gone in to them.This is all both functional and an intrinsic element of the game's satirical approach. The guns are corporate culture exerting itself on the people, right? "Yes, that's part of it," says Martel. "I refer to our designer, Matt Armstrong, as the head of the weapons division at Gearbox. In the first game we didn't quite get the identity right with the manufacturers; this time we wanted to create a more compelling sense of brand affinity. You get people who love their Nikes and others who say, 'I love Adidas!' - there's that rivalry. We see it with Apple and Android - I saw someone the other day who had a sticker on their car of an Android eating an Apple."Matt wanted to get that with these gun manufacturers. He wanted gamers to get to the point where they'd go and buy a T-shirt that said Maliwan on it. I think he's done a pretty good job of that. And then Kevin Duke, who was core in the conceptualisation this time round for the weapons, really took that to heart. He and the art director Jeremy Cook really worked to ensure that when you saw a weapon lying on the ground you'd know the manufacturer, you'd know it was a Jakobs".Cleverly though, Gearbox is also messing with that whole idea of brand loyalty. "Yes, Matt wanted to make it so that underlying in the design, you'd sometimes need a gun that you didn't care about to beat certain creatures," says Martel. They're challenging you: brand vs gameplay – which will win out when it comes to the crunch?So the guns explore brand evangelism, but also the corporate machinery behind it. "What was cool to me is that the team was really determined to make that a pervasive element," says Anthony Burch, who joined Gearbox as a writer in 2010 after Randy Pitchford became a fan of his hilarious web series,Hey Ash, Watcha Playing. "It wasn't just like, we'll have a couple of funny commercials – no, all the guns are going to look and feel different and embody different gun fantasies, for want of a better phrase. As a consequence, you get that it's a dystopian game – even in the farthest outer wastelands you can't escape corporations, they're still the ones running the show and they don't necessarily have your best interest at heart."There great some great moments when I was writing commercials for different gun manufacturers and we'd have conversations like, 'okay, which of these corporations would  sell me out and kill me if there was profit in it?' And we came to the conclusion that they'd all sell me out, it was just a question of who would do it quickest. None of them are good, you can't side with corporations. It's that idea of keeping everything dark and harsh and a little bit on the edge."This sense of authenticity, of a functioning logical world, exists throughout the game – even to the point where the team has invented technologies to explain genre conventions – like the enormous inventories characters carry around and re-spawning when players die."We wanted to turn the mechanics and paradigms within the genre into things that felt correct for science fiction," says Martel. "And one thing that's under-appreciated about Borderlands is the bits of sci-fi we've done. For example, our concept of digistructing [a technology that allows items to materialise from digital blueprints] -  that came out of the fact that the characters can't possibly hold all the guns they're carrying; I mean, where do they go? So we had this idea of an infinite storage deck represented by the holsters - when the character reaches for it, the gun creates in their hands. And that ties into the New You stations, which recreate you at the spot where you die. We were also consistent with the creature design: we asked, what is the commonality between them? So they all have this sideways mouth thing. It all feeds into the game".For Burch, what's important is that the humour – like the corporate messaging – is a pervasive part of the experience. It's not just the odd daft piece of throwaway dialogue, or a funny new enemy. It's in everything. "What's cool about how we've designed the gags in the game is that they inhabit more than just one part," says Burch. "There are a lot of funny lines, but there are also quests that areaboutcomedy, delivered through gameplay or structure. We'll take what you expect will be a two-hour quest with lots of interesting gameplay, and make it a five-minute quest with no interesting gameplay just to screw with your expectations."And the ideas can come from anywhere. We have a designer who said to me, 'I really like Top Gun, can we have a quest that's just about Top Gun?', I was like, 'What?! Yes! Why would I ever say no to that!?'" So there's a homoerotic topless volleyball sequence in Borderlands 2? "Yes," replies Burch. "Yes, we have that. I'd like to say we're the first non-Dead or Alive game to have a topless volleyball scene". A noble aim.After two years at Gearbox, Burch says that he's learned a lot about humour in games. "Yeah, in a weird way I appreciate how difficult it is, but at the same time – and this is going to sound stupid – I think it's easier than a lot of people make it out to be. You can count the number of funny games on one hand, but what's really interesting about that is, in most games, the gameplay itself does tend to be funny; it doesn't take itself seriously. Sure you have games like Shadows of the Colossus and Bioshock that are about big moral choices, and the mechanics reflect that, but for a vast majority of the time, you have games that are just, 'blow up all these heads and get experience points!', which is inherently not serious, it is funny."I felt very blessed to work on a game like Borderlands that embraces all that – that understands it's all about shooting psycho dwarves in the face with guns that fire lightning. It understands that this is the charm of the game and doesn't shy away from having its tone and narrative reflect that".Key to the successful implementation of humour into Borderlands is the team approach; the fact that every element of the game serves a common purpose. "Any schmo can write a joke, but 90% of the joke is in the delivery; that goes double for games," says Burch. "What I found really amazing is that, if any of my jokes work at all, it's because the designers are so damn good at what they do – they'll find the exact spot where the combat has just ended and there's a lull, and they'll make sure the punchline happens when it doesn't screw anything else up or occlude any of the other dialogue. Or if we're going to play around with the mechanics like having a gun that fires something funny, it has to have some gameplay value. It's a game above everything else, you have to find ways to implement humour without compromising the fun of the game."But timing is almost impossible in games, isn't it? You never know what a player is going to do next. "That's totally true," says Burch. " And we knew that if you're going along a path through this map in a reasonable way trying to follow objectives then we can put a comic moment in there… but there's truly nothing stopping you from going, 'ah fuck it, I'm leaving', and while we had a set up for a joke right here and assumed that five seconds later the pay off would play, you could just say, 'nope' and go, and you come back an hour later and you've forgotten the set-up. We're like, alright, that happens, it's a bummer – but we'll just throw a whole bunch more jokes at you".At the same time, there is that underlying darkness. Pandora is a nightmarish hellhole, where everything in the environment – the plants, the animals, the locals, they all want to kill you; its mutated clans and bandit groups are the stuff of rural horror – the unknowable psychopaths of The Hills Have Eyes and Deliverance."When I came on to the team, I knew the games, but I wasn't one of the people who helped build the world or understood the tone," says Burch. "So one of the things that Jeremy Cook, the art director, made sure I knew, even as we expanded the Borderlands universe, was that any goofy wacky moments should still be anchored in something more serious, or more meaningful. For example, Tiny Tina, this wacky crazy character, has a really sad backstory. There's a bunch of stuff about Handsome Jack that's really goofy and OTT, but he does some very dark stuff."Thematically, a lot of the things we play with are like the song from the first game, No Rest for the Wicked – well,the playeris the wicked one, it's not something you're used to being called – usually you're the hero of light who saves us all!Handsome Jack refers to himself as the hero and you as the bad guy and we play around with that a lot – but in a tongue in cheek way. We don't actually want you to be thinking, 'oh God, it's so awful I killed all those midgets' No, it's fine they were throwing grenades at you. One of the things we made sure to do at the beginning of the game was, you're going along with Claptrap, fighting a bunch of bandits and when you kill them all your character says, 'What have we done?! These were people with lives, with families! ... Nah, I'm just fucking with you, screw those guys!' It puts you into the right frame of mind: this a game where those things don't matter, where you don't feel guilty. Even if it doesn't resonate as a theme or a philosophical point in itself, it's useful as a counterpoint. You need the straight man in a comedy routine – it gives you a license to be goofy".Which brings us back to Handsome Jack, the lynchpin in the Borderlands 2 story. The key to him is, he isn't a standard video megalomaniac – he's a child. A gamer. "Initially he was a rival vault hunter," says Burch. "It was you and him basically racing to the treasure – like Belloq in Raiders of the Lost Ark. We knew from the very beginning we wanted a strong villain, we're super into Portal, Bioshock, System Shock – all those games have really strong antagonists that propel you through the narrative."But he went through a bunch of iterations. Next he was going to be the owner of an evil gladiatorial arena, and then eventually we decided on the head of Hyperion. I'm really curious to see how people react, he's a very unusual villain, he's a very immature guy. I wrote him as a 16-year-old GTA freak who has got to 99% completion and is almost at 100% and the fact he can't find that last item is pissing him off! He's a kooky guy."And later, I'm talking to Brian Martel about the humour, the way the team seems to enjoy pushing it, and the way the game's audience laps it all up. It is an interesting community. And Borderlands is all that's great, all that's creative and cathartic about games and game design. Did they plan for that? Did they know we'd get it?"In many ways, Borderlands is an indie game that got lucky," he shrugs. "It's like that indie band that you love and you're both pleased that they're successful, but also thinking, hey, that's mine. We can't believe people love this as much as we do – but, in the end, maybe that passion comes through…"Borderlands 2 is released on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 on 21 September
The biggest argument against the idea that the Xbox 360's hardcore audience will take to Kinect games – at least on this generation of consoles – is the lack of precise control it offers. Kinect is, in a word, flaky, and ultimately an absolute anathema to core players who demand tight controls and a lethal degree of accuracy in the games they're prepared to invest in.Iron Galaxy's Wreckateer does its best to sidestep this problem by playing up to Kinect's weaknesses. This is essentially a shooting game in which an inaccurate shot needn't necessarily spell doom for the player, since they can control their projectile to some degree once they've fired it. It's also impossible to judge a shot's impact on its target ahead of time, but we'll get to that in a moment.Wreckateer is an easy enough pitch to get your head around: in essence, it's Angry Birds in 3D. Except instead of firing a variety of birds at little green pigs in structures made out planks of wood and concrete, players fire a selection of projectiles out of a ballista at little green goblins in castles. The object of the game is to reduce as much of the buildings to piles of rubble as possible, while hitting the odd floating target along the way.The controls are simple enough; players reach forward so their avatar grabs the firing mechanism of the ballista and then, when prompted, they step forward making their avatar step into a semi-circle marked out on the ground. They then take a step back and watch as their avatar draws back on the ballista.The level of accuracy offered in each shot is impressive; the player can measure the trajectory of each shot in inches, by nudging a tad to the left or right, or stooping and straightening. Once the player is satisfied with how they've lined up their shot, they fire it by lifting their arms so they're perpendicular to their body.The Wreckateer lets you control over a projectile once it is airborne.Once the shot is airborne, the camera switches to a third-person perspective, allowing the player to influence the direction of their missile. There are a variety of projectiles available including bog-standard rocks, boulders that splinter into four smaller stones, exploding rocks and stones that speed up once activated while in flight. By slapping the air in front of them, players can coax their missiles a little to the left and right or up or down. They activate any special ability their boulder has by raising both arms.There's one projectile in the game's arsenal that allows the player a greater degree of control while in-flight: the Flying Shot. Once they've launched, players can raise their arms to cause a pair of wings to open, and they can then guide the Flying Shot with a greater degree of control and finesse by ducking and weaving their body. This allows them to pilot the Flying Shot through openings, hitting targets and parcels of explosives that are dotted around the target buildings.Players have three types of medal to aim for in each level: gold, silver and bronze. As one would expect, earning a gold in the early stages of the game is absolute child's play, but The Wreckateer ramps up the difficulty as time goes on. It soon becomes apparent that the game awards points based on the player's ability to hit certain targets or detonate the aforementioned packs of explosives to cause the maximum amount of damage in the targets.While this all sounds pretty straightforward, it's actually pretty tricky to pull off and this is entirely down to the lack of control the Kinect module offers. As The Wreckateer's difficulty increases, players will find their efforts at scoring a gold medal continually thwarted by Kinect misinterpreting their movements. Success, then, starts to hinge on a combination of timing and luck, and in the more challenging stages of the game, this can lead to some highly frustrating moments (and a lot of swearing).This lack of precision doesn't make The Wreckateer unique among Kinect titles – nor does the requirement that before purchasing it, players need to ensure they have enough space in their living room to duck and weave about with their arms outstretched. 	In all fairness, Wreckateer is easily one of the strongest titles made for the Kinect module, but it's not good enough to transcend the device's weaknesses.It also doesn't help that, once players have played the game for about an hour, they've discovered pretty much everything it has to offer. The level design is rather unmemorable overall, and the game doesn't really have anything along the lines of a plot or a series of unlockables to keep players engaged in the long-term. It works all right as a party game, but in that context its imprecise controls are part of the fun.There's a lot to like about The Wreckateer; it's a fun, if slightly lightweight offering, and its Kinect controls are well implemented. But as good as it is, The Wreckateer won't win over anyone who isn't already convinced by Kinect. It looks like players may have to wait for the next generation of consoles before that's even possible.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Samsung's flagship Galaxy S3 and Galaxy Note smartphones, and its Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet, could be banned in the US after Apple asked a federal court there to ban them as part of an ongoing lawsuit it is bringing against the South Korean company.The iPhone maker has added the phones to a case which is running in parallel to its just-concluded patent infringement case, where a jury awarded Apple $1.05bn in damages after deciding a number of Samsung phones and tablets had infringed various software patents as well as mimicking the iPhone's appearance.Meanwhile in Japan, Apple lost a claim against Samsung, where it alleged similar infringements, providing a welcome relief for Samsung, which has had few outright wins in the dozens of cases being fought in courts around the world between the two.In February, Apple alleged in a US case in northern California that at least 17 Samsung products infringe its patents. In a court filing made in San Jose federal court on Friday, Apple added four more products to the list of allegedly infringing products that have been released since the beginning of August 2011.A ban on the Galaxy S3 and Galaxy Note would be a publicity hit for Samsung, for which the phones are high-profile emblems of its ambitions. Samsung is said to be the world's largest maker of both smartphones and mobile phones, and the Note and S3 phones have been big sellers and revenue-earners.Following the Tokyo court decision, Samsung said in a statement it "confirmed our long-held position that our products do not infringe Apple's intellectual property".A representative for Apple in Japan declined to comment. A spokesman for NTT Docomo Inc declined to comment, while a KDDI Corp spokeswoman said she did not see any major impact from the decision. Both Japanese mobile carriers sell the popular Samsung Galaxy series.
Any news executives confident that the answer to falling print sales is more people using tablet computers should be delighted by the next six weeks or so. On Thursday, Amazon's Jeff Bezos is expected to unwrap a new version of the 7in Kindle Fire tablet, and even to extend sales beyond the US into Europe – after opening up its app store here last week. Google has been selling its 7in Nexus 7 tablet since July in the US and Europe. And early in October Apple's Tim Cook will unveil a 7.85in version of theiPad, according to rumourswhose detail lacks only a price.So that's a dramatic change from 12 months ago: we will go from having zero big-name small-size tablets at the start of the year (ignoring those from Samsung and RIM, neither of which has grabbed the market's attention) to three by the end of it, and all around the £150 mark. Suddenly, tablets will be affordable and portable.But will the arrival of these dinky tablets, which should be small enough to slip into a pocket while travelling, yet big enough to read easily, mean a revival for the dying art of reading a newspaper (in some form) on the train or tube?The arrival of Apple's will get most attention, and news sites know the iPad is already disproportionately well represented in viewing statistics for mobile devices. But the Kindle Fire might have the most impact. That's because more than any other brand, people tie Amazon to reading – whereas for Apple, the iTunes Store linked to the iPad is known for films, music, games or other apps, and Google's Android for games (as theNexus 7 has a very limited range of music and films).The book industry already knows that when it comes to ebooks, there isn't actually any real market apart from Amazon. Although everyone talks about "ebooks", the reality is that Kindle sales are 95% or more of the market; despite the best efforts of Kobo, Apple and Nook (the latter US-only as yet), they haven't managed to break the dominance of the device that Bezos unveiled in November 2007. Since then the Kindle has gone through four iterations and its price has dropped from $399 to $139, and it has gone from a curiosity to a device that has helped books like Fifty Shades of Grey fly up the charts.Why? Because Amazon makes it absurdly easy to buy content on the Kindle, and to read that content on other devices – there's even a Kindle app for the iPhone, iPad and Android phones, so your books can follow you around even if your e-reader doesn't. And if you want a newspaper to read, then the Guardian, Observer, Telegraph, Times, Sunday Times, Daily Mail, Financial Times, Independent, London Evening Standard and Metro areall available on Kindle. (Don't ask what it means that satire site The Onion is 11th in "Kindle Newspapers".)By contrast, buying books or papers isn't a key task on a tablet. The Guardian, Daily Mail, Times and Economist have all made headway, with varying success, with tablet apps, but the position of the iPad-only The Daily – whichlaid off a third of its 150 staff at the end of July– suggests that it's not a core activity.Or perhaps that should be: yet. "With an 'iPad mini', the tablet becomes much more portable," says Francisco Jeronimo, smartphones and tablets analyst with the research firm IDC. "You can slip it in your pocket, take it on the train, wherever." A smaller screen that you have on a journey is just the audience that newspapers want. And with the low-end versions only offering wifi, without the 3G mobile connections, newspaper and magazine apps could drive people to pay for news apps – if news is what they want on those trips, of course.Even so, the evidence that people will pay for such apps, and so make up lost revenues, isn't strong. In January, Nielsenreported in the USthat its survey had found that one-third of tablet and smartphone owners had downloaded a news app within the past 30 days; only 3% of the total had bought a paid app, and 16% had downloaded either paid or free apps. The conversion rate of the latter wasn't recorded, but that's a key metric.However, the best chance for more sales (or advertising-funded distribution) of news apps has to come from having more users. And this is where Jeronimo thinks Apple's entry will help drive things: "It makes sense to open the market to the biggest percentage of users – the ones who don't have a tablet yet, or can't afford one at the existing price." They are the people who might just enjoy reading a paper again. Though the bad news might be: if they were unwilling to afford the price of an iPad, will they want to buy a news app too? Suddenly, ad-supported news apps look like the way forward.
A founder of thePirate Bayfilesharing website has been arrested in Cambodia at the request of Swedish police.Gottfrid Svartholm Warg, 27, was detained in Phnom Penh by officers executing an international warrant issued against him in April after he did not turn up to serve a one-year jail sentence for copyright violations.In Sweden, Warg's former defence lawyer Ola Salomonsson confirmed the arrest, according to the Aftonbladet website.Warg and the site's co-founders – Fredrik Neij and Peter Sunde, and financier Carl Lundstroem – were convicted of encouraging copyright violations in 2009.Neij, Sunde and Lundstroem all had their one-year jail terms reduced to between four and 10 months on appeal in 2010. They were also ordered to pay nearly $7m (£4.4m) in damages for copyright infringement to music and movie companies.Warg did not appear at the appeal hearing, with his lawyer claiming he was too ill. The court upheld his sentence in his absence.The operations of the Pirate Bay were mostly shut down in Sweden six years ago, but the website has continued to operate elsewhere.The site was founded in 2003, and has more than 30 million users worldwide. It allowed users to share large files such as films and TV shows and was pursued by the film and music industry.No copyright content is hosted on the site's web servers. Instead, it hosts links to TV, film and music files held on its users' computers which makes it easy to avoid paying for items.A police spokesman in Cambodia told the AFP news agency: "His arrest was made at the request of the Swedish government for a crime related to information technology."We don't have an extradition treaty with Sweden but we'll look into our laws and see how we can handle this case."
It's Monday, and my sons are back to school today – I managed to console them yesterday with an hour of Minecraft. We put the tutorial mode on and went and lived in the castle. What did you get up to?
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSouth Korea reassesses Samsung after battle with Apple &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"The ruling makes us reconsider the brand value of Samsung because it depicts Samsung as a copycat," said James Song, who monitors Samsung for KDB Daewoo Securities in Seoul. "But a copycat or not, what Samsung has done with its smartphones was a brilliant move.""Look what has happened to companies like Nokia, Motorola and BlackBerry, which didn't do as Samsung did," Mr. Song added, referring to competitors whose failures to adapt quickly to the smartphone boom driven by iPhones have drastically reduced their market shares. "Samsung may lack in innovation, but right now, no one can beat Samsung in playing catch-up."Say hello to Samsung's fanboy factory - the Mobilers program &gt;&gt; The Next WebThe title that was being shared on Twitter on Sunday night was "Here's how Samsung flew bloggers halfway around the world [from India to Berlin], then threatened to leave them there"Jeff told Samsung again, in no uncertain terms, that they were not there to be product demonstrators for the brand. They reiterated that they had agreed to the trip so that they could cover Samsung, but also the other brands that were launching products. They were shuttled off to a meeting where they once again stated ,this time to a stern-faced PR person, that they had no interest in playing Samsung's employee for the event. They were told that they had some free time while the company made its decision, so they headed to the local Starbuck's to grab a pre-show coffee.An insight into the very murky world of pro blogging - and how companies treat them.Android malware authors take a crack at the Japanese market &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityInformally, our statistics put countries like Russia, China and the USA at the top of the charts when it comes to being the target of Android malware.Whether it's leeching data from your phone, tricking you into sending pricy SMSes, or some other money-making scam, malware targeting Japanese speakers has been very rare so far.For every 1000 dodgy Android apps targeting Russian speakers, we've seen about one app aimed at Japan.But that doesn't mean if you're in Japan you can let your guard down.OMG, Eddy Cue totally says no Apple television soon! &gt;&gt; Matthew PanzarinoThis was an inference on their part based on Cue's comments. But if you read the actual text of the note, the only comment from Cue is that Apple will 'enter markets where it feels it can create great customer experiences and address key problems'. If that sounds familiar, it's because that's the company line, oft repeated by CEO Tim Cook and others.That's the only direct comment mentioned to be made by Cue. There is absolutely no passage here that says Cue said 'no TV solution' and certainly none that says 'not to expect and Apple television any time soon.Noticed how all the talk about an Apple TV, so noisy earlier this year, has gone away?Nutjob attempts to extort $35 computer from non-profit foundation &gt;&gt; Raspberry PiThe mysterious "Steve" who claims to be a "BA Maths student" contacted the makers of the Raspberry Pi. Sample quote:"I thought I am talking to a company who knows about worldwide standards and treats people who may transfer thousands and hundreds of thousands of dollars. We are amused here, all of us."A classicApple versus Samsung: Full interview with the jury foreman &gt;&gt; BBC NewsQ: Why weren't you convinced by Samsung's arguments that some of the patents that Apple had put forward shouldn't be allowed to stand? There has been a lot made in the media and elsewhere that Apple wasn't the first with some of the ideas that they had patented.A: To try to make it as easy as possible - I have addressed this in other interviews that I have had - what it amounts to is there has been a big fuss since the deliberation that prior art was not considered. Prior art was considered.Will this change the mind of anyone who's already decided what they think?Amazon appstore drives monetization for developers &gt;&gt; Amazon Press ReleasesAmazon.com, Inc. today announced that since Kindle Fire was introduced less than a year ago, customers have downloaded hundreds of millions of apps and games from the Amazon Appstore, and the number of developers building apps for Amazon Appstore continues to grow quickly.Completely missing from press release: any evidence of the extent to which developers are making money. There is zero financial content in this release; it's simply flim-flam. The question then is, why publish it at all? It's not for discerning shareholders, certainly.The iPad 2,4 review: 32nm brings better battery life &gt;&gt; AnandtechThe "new" iPad 2 uses a different chip with a 32nm process - see if you can guess who manufactures it - and the engineering involved is fascinating. Ignore the iPad stuff; this is an absorbing explanation of a core technology that matters to anyone who uses a chip-driven device.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Ross Anderson (A breach of anonymity, 29 August) rightly points out that it is impossible to guarantee the anonymity of publicly available patient data, quoting the Royal Society report Science as an Open Enterprise in evidence. It does not follow, however, that society should eschew the use of patient data for research purposes in ways that have already demonstrated considerable public benefit and which have the potential to yield much more.The Royal Society report stresses a proportionate approach to sharing, compiling and linking personal data that attempts to weigh public benefit against personal risk. It summarises strong governance mechanisms that can restrict access to data to researchers with a legitimate interest in the data, and who can be subject to penalties, including criminal sanctions, if they breach confidentiality. But we must be clear: such mechanisms can minimise but cannot remove the risk of breaching confidentiality.It is important that we are able to weigh the potential benefits of research against the potential harm of any unauthorised release of confidential data. Society routinely accepts risks where benefit is believed to outweigh them, as we do in accepting the benefits of road transport while attempting to minimise resulting fatalities.The upcoming consultation on changing the NHS constitution must be clear about what is proposed, including some of the troubling issues of security at the interface with private companies referred to by Ross Anderson, and it must be clear about risks and realistic about benefits.Geoffrey BoultonChair of the Royal Society's Science as an Open Enterprise working group
Only recently, the future of the Transformers gaming franchise looked bleak. Having incurred the wrath of fans and critics alike with last year's disappointing movie tie-in,Dark of the Moon, developer High Moon was under pressure to deliver a return to form. Its response was to look back to the 80s for inspiration, and the result is both a love-letter to Transformers lore and a much-improved action game.Transformers nerds will no doubt delight in the many nods and winks to Marvel comics and cartoons, but it's the frenetic pace and large-scale battles that impress the most. Building on the blueprint set out in 2010'sWar for Cybertron, this latest instalment is a brash, bombastic concoction of third-person shooting, vehicle combat and melee action that moves along with relentless speed.The story campaign, while short, is littered with huge setpieces and is at its best when providing the player with large, open battlefields in which to experiment. In these sections, the seamless transition between slick, responsive gun-play and fast-paced vehicular action offers a refreshing degree of freedom. With solid multiplayer and co-op modes in tow,Fall of Cybertronis the perfect example of how a developer can reassert control over a faltering franchise.
OK, here's the statutory health warning: for a long, long time, people have been saying that the next US presidential election will be "the internet election". And thus far, all those predictions have turned out to be wrong, at least if one interprets them as claims that the outcome of the election is effectively determined by online activity.The inspiration for all this speculation about the political impact of the net is an older communications technology – television. In the 1950s, people speculated endlessly about that medium's impact on politics, but it was only in 1960, with the famoustelevised debatesbetween John F Kennedy and Richard Nixon, that speculation hardened into certainty: TV was the key factor in presidential politics.And that was the conventional wisdom for the next three decades, until the web turned the internet into something that "ordinary" people began to use.For at least a decade since, people have been seeking an analogous tipping point for online media. Some argued that Barack Obama's mastery of social networking in 2008 was critical in ensuring his election. Sceptics countered with the view that the impact of online media paled into insignificance compared with the damage the Republicans inflicted on themselves by nominating Sarah Palin as John McCain's running mate and aspiring vice-president.So will the 2012 election provide the tipping point, the moment when the internet plays a decisive role in influencing how people vote? Given the penetration of the network into daily life, it's obviously implausible to maintain that it isn't havingsomeimpact on politics. The yawning gap that existed in the 1990s between cyberspace (where people do "social networking") and "meatspace" (where they go to polling stations and vote) has clearly shrunk. But by how much?Judging by current online activity, if the internet decided the outcome Obama would win by a mile. HisFacebook page, for example, has more than 28m "likes" and had more than 1.7m people "talking" about it when I last checked.Romney's pagehas a mere 5.5m "likes" (but more than 2m people were "talking" about it). On Twitter, Obama is way ahead by all thesignificant metrics: followers (19m to Romney's 954,000); number of followers added in past 24 hours (46,000 v 13,000); mentions (59,000 v 29,000); retweets (25,000 v 6,600); retweeters (22,000 v 5,000). I could go on, but you get the picture.Last week also saw a revealing contrast between the two camps. Romney's crowd put everything into an intensively scripted, 1980s-style rebranding of their candidate, using all the tired old tricks ofMad Menand old media. Obama, in contrast, just turned up on Reddit.com and did an AMA (Ask Me Anything)session, which brought the site to its knees. If you don't know about Reddit then I suggest you take a look; then ask yourself how many contemporary British politicians you can think of who would dare to do an AMA session on it. (My answer: one – John Prescott.)The big question is whether Obama's online dominance will make much difference. My hunch is that it won't. This is not because the net isn't important, but because of the peculiar nature of this election. According to arecent poll, most voters have already made up their minds and only about 6% remain undecided as to how they will vote in November. One analyst,Paul Begala, a former adviser to Bill Clinton, thinks that the election will be decided by just 4% of the voters, in six states – Virginia, Florida, Ohio, Iowa, New Mexico and Colorado. That's 916,643 people, or "fewer than half the number of people who paid to get into a Houston Astros home game last year".Most of these "undecideds" are not interested in politics. But they are almost certainly among the164m Americans currently on Facebook, which is why one commentator,David Talbot, has dubbed it "the real presidential swing state". The thing about Facebook is that many users reveal fine-grained information about themselves – home town, age, education, preferences, friends. People who are uninterested in politics are unlikely to be swayed by overtly "political" messages, but they might be amenable to messages from their Facebook contacts. So, voters in swing states such as Ohio or Florida who have "liked" a Facebook page describing Romney as a "vulture capitalist" might suddenly find themselves getting messages from "friends" reminding them that they buy stationery from Staples, a successful company that Romney invested in.Even in a networked world, all politics will ultimately turn out to be local politics.
One of the saddest things in the gaming world is seeing a title that's clearly trying to do something special and yet ends up barely mediocre. Such is the case forDamage Inc, a second world war-set aerial shooter from new developer Trickstar Games. Despite promising "beautifully rendered aircraft, islands and battle scenes", the visuals fail to impress, mostly involving bland landscapes with little or no detail, while inter-mission sections look like PowerPoint presentations. Luckily, flight itself is enjoyable, and with around 30 jets to unlock, there's plenty of variety in terms of aircraft.However,Damage Incexists almost exclusively to partner the AV8R flight stick included with the collector's edition of the game. That in itself may makeDamage Inca worthwhile purchase, as it's a sturdy bit of kit that enables precise control of your jets – barrel rolls, loops and more are intuitively pulled off, and combat comes alive far more when using it. Arcade controls make shoot-outs accessible for casual players, while simulation controls add a ring of authenticity. Flight-sim fanatics will favour more comprehensive rigs, but given that the AV8R is designed to mimic 60-year-old planes, it's certainly fit for purpose.
Data: with every call, tweet and purchase we create it, websites and governments harvest vast amounts of it and, in the spirit of "open", much of it we can download ourselves, but can we comprehend it?What we need are visualisations, ways to help us make sense of this information that throw up new patterns, linkages that help us better understand such phenomena asdrone strikes in Pakistan,life expectancy by tube stationsand whowon the most Olympic medals sorted by GDP.All these are examples from the trailblazing data site of our sister paper, theGuardian,and now theObserveris teaming up with tech curators3beardsto put on an event for all budding data artists. It is billed as an "art meets tech" hackathon and we are aiming to bring together data-savvy artists, musicians and creatives to work with coders and developers to create imaginative and visionary ways of rendering data. The event is inspired by the work of Scottish cellistPeter Gregson, who has long been integrating technology into his work. His latest project,The Listening Machine,is an algorithm that scans the Twitter feeds of 500 people, analyses their sentiment and meaning and creates a continuous piece of music in response. Such ideas are the kind of hybrid, cross-pollinating concepts we are hoping for.As 3beard's Bryce Keane says: "There are absolutely no limits for this and we're encouraging artists and hackers to get as creative as they want. They might want to usecrowdsourcingto gather 700 interpretations of love and visualise it into a collage, take data from bus delays and output them into varying decibels, or even survey the attendees on the night and make a word cloud of their fears."The event takes place atMozilla's London space, from 7pm on Friday 14 September running non-stop to 8pm on Sunday 16&nbsp;September. There will be lots of help over the weekend to turn your crazy concepts into pixels, music, lights, sculpture or whatever you fancy:Twilioare supplying the API; there will beBrandwatchtechnicians, developers and data visualisation mentors on hand, and there will be all the coffee, pizza and sugary fuel you require to stay creative/awake. You just need a laptop and some ambitiously hare-brained ideas. The results will not only go live on the web, they will also be exhibited at theWhitechapel Galleryon the night of the 26 September at one of 3beards' hottest-tech-ticket-in-townDigital Sizzlenights.Artists, creatives, coders and hackers who want to be involved should go tohttp://sizzle6hackathon.eventbrite.co.uk/or email hello@3-beards.com.
Damage Inc: Pacific Squadron WWII, PC, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360Published by steering wheel maker, Mad Catz, Damage Inc comes with its own flight stick, which is wonderfully solid, has convenient brackets to grip your leg so you can pretend you're Maverick or Ice Man while slumped on the sofa and works with games like Ace Combat 6 among others.Just as well too, because Damage Inc is rather an oddball. Grainily lo-res, its ugliness complements a core mechanic that lets you slow down time indefinitely, reducing the majority of your interaction to keeping the red dot that shows where to aim at enemy aircraft inside your aiming reticule long enough to blow stuff up. While keeping a dot inside a circle is still technically a game, it's not one you'd be happy paying this much for. Lovely joystick though.Mad Catz,£39.99, with AV8R flight stick £89.99Hybrid, Xbox 360HybridThe Variants and the Paladins are at war over dark matter. Who they are and what dark matter is never really comes up, but suffice to say you're immediately blasted into a cover-based shooting game in which movement is limited to brief, jetpack-powered flights between convenient ledges, floors and ceilings. Matches are concentrated three-on-three affairs that defy friends lists and strategy in favour of fast action in arenas that are really just tiny crucibles of death. There's an overarching numerically driven "plot" to do with finding dark matter across the continents and you can level up to get better equipment, but at heart this is a straightforward online shooter.Microsoft, approx £10.20 via XBLAWorms Collection, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360WormsWorms has a single raison d'etre: shared houses. If you've got two or more housemates, Worms' miniature wars are just about as essential as a well structured washing up and cleaning rota. With weapons that range from traditional (bazooka, grenade, airstrike) to rather more esoteric (banana bomb, exploding sheep) you take turns, first watching your team of four militarised invertebrates get pummelled by everyone else, before unleashing bloody revenge on your tormentors. The game's awkward lurch into 3D in Worms: Ultimate Mayhem is best forgotten but Worms and Worms 2: Armageddon are still both truly superb wasters of time.Mastertronic, £24.99Games newsSony has announced the closure of its Liverpool Studio. Founded in 1984 as Psygnosis, it was one of Britain's most venerable development institutions, responsible for theWipeoutandDestruction Derby. Fellow creaky old institution,The Golden Joystick Awardsis still going however, with public voting now open atwww.goldenjoystick.com… Out this week areTransformers: War For Cybertron(Xbox 360, PS3, PC), bringing mildly disappointing shooting antics to anyone naive enough to burn their money on a film-licensed game;Tales Of Graces F(PS3) an anime-infused RPG about friends with unlikely haircuts and a revival ofDonkey Kong Jr(3DS eShop), in which the young gorilla tries to free daddy Kong from the clutches of Mario, here in one-off evil mode. True to the 1982 original, it's brutally hard.
I'm glad Seat has dropped its "Auto Emocion" slogan. It just sounded – to me anyway – a bit too much like autoeroticism. Vehicles more suited to the onanist than the motorist. As if that wasn't enough, their little city car was called the Arosa, which sounds too&nbsp;much like Arouser, and that's clearly what they were hinting at. Who was going to nip to the shops in&nbsp;an Arouser? Dogging perhaps, but not Sainsbury's. In short, a Seat was the car of choice for the pervert.Not any more, thankfully. The slogan's gone, and the Arouser has been replaced by this one. Mii, a bit like a Wii, it sounds more friendly and family appropriate. No one's going to feel ashamed stepping into a Mii.It's basically the same car as the VW Up and the Skoda Citigo, just styled slightly differently. You chose the one you like the look of best (oh, and the Up costs a bit more for the equivalent model, because it's a VW). None of them is a specially interesting design, or has the cuteness of a Fiat 500. But I like the Seat – it's neat, and simple.Inside, too. Most cars today have too many knobs and switches – not only on the dashboard, but on the steering wheel, on the inside of the doors, above your head... sometimes it's like getting into the bloody space shuttle. The manufacturers think that it's what people want. To be fair, it is what a&nbsp;lot of people want. But these people are fools. They'll soon get bored of all the toys they've paid extra for and won't use them. This one&nbsp;has all you need – to&nbsp;turn lights&nbsp;on and off, open and close windows, heat, cool, make music happen – and nothing more. Cheap,&nbsp;yes, but also unpretentious, with a certain utilitarian charm. It also makes me quite nostalgic, because it feels like stepping into a&nbsp;little car in about 1992.Albeit a much better little car than the ones that were around 20 years ago – more comfortable, roomier (surprisingly so, even in the back), safer, quieter, more efficient. To drive? Well, with its 60PS, three cylinder, one-litre engine, it takes a&nbsp;while to gather momentum on the open road. But the open road is not the Mii's natural habitat. It belongs in town, and here it's perfect – nippy, assured, confident, quiet, friendly. Just nice, really. I'm trying the Ecomotive model, which costs a bit more but brings CO2levels down below 100, so you avoid the congestion charge in London, where it would make most sense. Elsewhere, the basic model – hardly a planet slayer – would be fine. It's a&nbsp;basic car – able, efficient, enjoyable. Or, put another way, good clean fun.Seat Mii Ecomotive 1.0 12V 60PSPrice£9,180Top speed100mphAcceleration0-62 in 14.4 secondsCombined consumption68.9mpgCO2emissions96g/kmEco rating9/10Cool rating8/10
Facebook's shares hit new lows Friday as analysts worried the social network's insiders may be preparing to sell yet more stock.The company's share price reached a low of $18.03 on Friday before ending at $18.08, down 5.28% for the day. Facebook's shares are now worth less than half the $38 price they were sold for in May.The latest fall came as two analysts from firms associated with May's troubled initial public offering (IPO) cut their price targets on the shares.Bank of Montreal (BMO) analyst Daniel Salmon cut his target for Facebook's shares from $25 to $15 – the lowest rating of his peers – and warned the company may struggle to meet a 4% revenue-growth target in the third quarter.Bank of America analyst Justin Post cut his target on the shares to $23, arguing the company had good long-term prospects while citing concerns about the looming expiration of "lockup" agreements that prevented some early investors and company insiders from selling shares.Facebook's shares fell 6.3% after the expiration of its first lockup agreement in mid-August freed up some 271m shares for sale. Legendary Silicon Valley investor Peter Thiel, the first big outside investor in Facebook and a company director, used that opportunity to sell more than 20m shares, most at $20 a share. Co-founder Dustin Moskovitz has shed 1.35m shares at prices ranging from $18.79 to $20.08, adding $26.2m to his fortune.Post was more positive about the company's long-term prospects from new advertising formats but wrote "recent selling activity on the August lockup suggests to us the risk of future selling pressure".Facebook's next lockup expiration comes on 15 October, when another 249m shares will be freed up. The largest expiration comes on 14 November, when co-founder and largest shareholder Mark Zuckerberg and others will be free to sell 1.32bn shares. More shares will also be released in December and in May next year.On the day of its IPO Facebook was briefly valued at $104bn, more than the market value of Goldman Sachs and Nike added together. On Friday Facebook was valued at $38.69bn, less than Nike's $44.19bn.
