Facebook has unveiled sweeping changes to its website – including partnerships with major music and film companies – in a bid to transform the world's biggest social network into a key entertainment hub.Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of Facebook, on Thursday announced new partnerships with Spotify, Netflix, the Guardian and other media companies as he said that 800 million people worldwide now use the social network."The last five years of social networking have been about getting people signed up," Zuckerberg told Facebook's f8 conference in San Francisco. "Until recently people weren't sure how long the phenomenon would last. Now social networks are a ubiquitous tool used by billions of people around the world to stay connected every day."Facebook has in recent months recently ramped up its attempts to attract and keep internet users on the site in the wake of competition from Twitter and a new rival in Google. Facebook is expected to hit the 1 billion user mark within weeks, having doubled the number of active users since February 2010.As part of the changes announced on Thursday, Facebook users will be able to automatically share activity such as viewing, listening and reading in a live "ticker" stream, once they have opted in to the feature. The new stream will be separate from the existing Facebook news feed, although popular items – such as the most frequently played songs among friends – will appear in the column."We are making it so you can connect to&nbsp;anything you want. Now you don't have to like a book, you can just read a book," Zuckerberg said. "You don't have to like a&nbsp;movie; you can just watch a movie."Facebook unveiled sweeping changes to users' profile pages, including an online scrapbook, dubbed Timeline, which Zuckerberg said will "help you tell the story of your life".Dressed in a plain grey T-shirt, jeans and white trainers, the 27-year-old billionaire said Timeline would allow readers to document important moments – such as birth, graduation and marriage – while maintaining "complete control" of privacy settings.Unlike Twitter and Google+, which are heavily focused on exchanging messages with friends, Facebook has become an online destination where people can record their own history. Facebook, which attracted a record 500 million people in just 24 hours, now allows users to watch films, listen to music and read newspapers without leaving the website.Rio Caraeff, chief executive of the online music video site Vevo, which is to be offered from inside Facebook's website, said: "Today's announcement is a big step forward in Vevo's mission to bring more music to more fans in more places. A deeper integration with Facebook will help Vevo grow its scale and reach to new heights, while better targeting our connected, socially-savvy audience."While Facebook is keen for its users to stay on the site for as long as possible, Zuckerberg has consistently emphasised that the site is a "distribution platform" to other media companies.The social network has moved to strengthen its ties with media partners in recent months as it moves closer to its hotly anticipated initial public offering. Facebook was recently valued at $66.5bn on secondary markets. Its global revenues are expected to reach $4.3bn in 2011, up from $2bn in 2010, according to the research firm eMarketer.Planet ZuckerbergMark Zuckerberg's ambitions never stagnate. He made Facebook into the biggest social network on the planet, where friends and family can keep in touch, and figured out a way to generate advertising money from the time spent on the site – more, in the US, than on Google properties in recent months. But now he wants to go beyond "like"; he wants us to "read" and "listen" – to look at stories from newspapers and share in the music your friends enjoy. It's a simultaneous expansion of Facebook's idea – that it should stretch across the internet – and also an admission that no matter how hard he might try, there's still more of the internet outside Facebook than in, and that peoples'people spend more time away from his site than on it.He wants Facebook to be the centre of your web experience. That's the purpose of the redesign of the "timeline" – the river of experiences recounted by your friends. Rather than being a river, he's offering the chance to organise it, with the photos and videos. The music sharing – letting friends listen together to songs through free streaming services such as Spotify – will be an instant hit. "It isn't trying to block you from listening to songs you haven't bought; it's about helping you discover so many songs you end up buying more content than you ever would have otherwise," Zuckerberg said. His other ambition, obviously, is to be the next Steve Jobs – the person who makes you pay for music online.The key is that he wants Facebook to become thede factoauthentication mechanism of the web. Perhaps you're sick of having to remember your login details at every different website you go to (because it's wrong to use the same password everywhere; if one site gets hacked then your online identity is compromised): he wants to make it possible for you to log in everywhere using just your Facebook identity, which of course is almost always your "real" identity. (What happens if your Facebook login gets stolen? Ah, that's a different problem.)For Google, still the biggest and most widely used search engine (even if it's not the biggest in Russia or China), Facebook's changes are yet another example of how social networking, a trick it has never mastered, still remains out of reach. Despite launching Google+, its own social networking service, to the world earlier this week, it lags behind by about 680 million users.Facebook, meanwhile, is mutating before our eyes: no longer an evanescent startup, now a giant. MySpace, Bebo, Friends Reunited: they're the past. Facebook more and more looks like the future.
IDC and Gartner PC v Tablet forecast to 2015, when Gartner puts tablet unit sales at 60% of PCs'Tablet computers will see an explosion in sales over the next four years, selling 60% as many units as PCs by 2015 – and Apple's iPad will still have almost half the market by then, says the research group Gartner in a bullish forecast.But the predictions, which study the period from 2010 to 2015, are less hopeful about the current prospects for Google's Android as a tablet operating system, saying that its appeal is presently limited by "high prices, weak user interface and limited tablet applications", according to Carlina Milanesi, Gartner's research vice-president.Gartner tablet forecast to 2015: Apple will have just under 50% of the market of 326m, forecast saysIt is only after 2014 that Milanesi sees Android, which is already available from a wide range of tablet manufacturers, gaining more than a 50% share over Apple, which presently only offers its iPad 2 model."This is because Apple delivers a superior and unified user experience across its hardware, software and services," she said. "Unless competitors can respond with a similar approach, challenges to Apple's position will be minimal. Apple had the foresight to create this market and in doing that planned for it as far as component supplies such as memory and screen. This allowed Apple to bring the iPad out at a very competitive price and no compromise in experience among the different models that offer storage and connectivity options." She reckons that Apple will command 73.4% of the "media tablet" market this year, shipping nearly 47m devices, up from 14.6m in 2010.For 2015, Milanesi forecasts that Apple will sell 148m iPads, out of a total of 326m, while "media tablets" using Microsoft's new Windows 8 operating system – probably running on ARM, rather than Intel, processors – are forecast to make up just 34m of the figure. Rival research company IDC's most recent forecast earlier this month suggests that in 2015 a total of 535m PCs will be sold; if both companies' figures are accurate, that would mean tablets shipping 60% as many units as PCs. In 2010 around 347m PCs were shipped, and just 17m tablets – almost all iPads.Milanesi agreed that the predictions were bullish: "Usually at Gartner we're told we're too conservative. With tablets, we have been bullish from the start."For this year Gartner has lowered its forecast for the number of Android tablets that will ship by 28%, buoyed only by the success of low-end tablets in Asian markets, particularly China, and by the expected release of an Android-based tablet from the internet retailer Amazon next month.This year Gartner does not expect any other platform than iOS and Android to have more than a 5% share. HP's webOS, which runs on its TouchPad, is forecast to make a 2m bip in the figures – and then be snuffed out, following HP's decision in August to kill the platform.Milanesi is more optimistic than many others about the prospects for Rim's QNX operating system, presently used on its 7in PlayBook tablet. It reckons that a total of 3m will be shipped this year, mainly to corporate customers. "We have seen some enterprise pickup, and the price drop helps," Milanesi said of the PlayBook, which has only shipped 700,000 in its first two quarters according to Rim's accounts."Most of Apple's competitors are struggling to meet Apple's prices without considerably sacrificing margins. Screen quality and processing power are the two hardware features that vendors cannot afford to compromise on," said Roberta Cozza, principal analyst at Gartner. "They should consider everything else 'nice to have', rather than essential, in order to keep bills-of-materials costs competitive with those of the iPad."Gartner warns that the excitement around Microsoft's demonstration of Windows 8, expected next year, at the Build conference in Anaheim could be lost if it is seen as compromising usability so that Microsoft can extend Windows across both PCs and tablets: "The late arrival might limit its appeal, especially to consumers, as Apple and Android will be more entrenched by then," Gartner commented in a research note. "Microsoft's platform will find its biggest opportunities in the enterprise segment, where IT departments could benefit from smoother integration with existing Microsoft software."Gartner tablet sales forecast 2010-2015Year/Platform201020112012201320142015iOS14.746.76995.6122.1148.7Android2.51122.954.185.3116.4Microsoft004.314.424.434.4WebOS02.10000MeeGo0.20.50.50.40.30.2Other0.20.40.50.50.40.4QNX036.312.919.526.1Total tablets17.663.6103.5177.825232.6PCs347.1356.9390433.5482535.3tablet as % of PCs5.0717.8326.534152.3260.96as percentage of year's totaliOS83.473.466.759.752.645.6Android14.317.322.126.631.235.7Microsoft0.00.04.26.38.410.6WebOS0.03.20.0000.0MeeGo1.00.70.50.30.20.1Other1.30.60.50.30.20.1QNX0.04.76.16.77.48.0100100100100100100source: tablet data: Gartner (2013, 2014 inferrred from 2012, 2015 data); PC forecast: IDC.
Finding a date for a big event in the tech calendar has become something of a problem. As the number of conferences, product launches and developer parties has reached a crescendo, the number of spare days available to bring together the great and good of your industry has dwindled.But the mobile industry is recognised for its spirit of collaboration.  That's why it probably shouldn't be too much of a surprise to hear that five of the most active names in the mobile industry have solved a problem of crowded calendars by getting together and launching the first ever London Mobile Week.Droidcon, Planet of the Apps, Over the Air, MMA and Sybase, with sponsors BlueVia and TechHub, have pooled their collective marketing clout to bring together a series of events running in the first week of October under a single umbrella.They recognised that with all these mobile-focused events running in the same week, the eyes of the mobile world will be on London. So, in the spirit of supporting the wider industry including entrepreneurial start-ups such as the app developers that abound around London's Old Street, these relative heavyweights have said: "Why not invite the entire mobile industry to take part?"If you want to run an event for London Mobile Week, the message now is straightforward: "Build it, and they will come".The only thing is, you'll have to move fast. While London Mobile Week was dreamed up a little over a week ago, it actually takes place between 30 September and 7 October. If you want to get involved, you can start by tweeting your own event using the#lmw11hashtag. Follow@LDNmobileweekon Twitter and mention them in your tweet so they can retweet it to their followers. Full details will be updated on thewebsitethat is being built between now and the event.So if you're a start-up in the mobile space, even if you didn't have any plans to hold an event in the near future, now may be your chance to capitalise on a rare moment of tech industry serendipity.The London Mobile Week founding partners are:DroidConPlanet of the AppsOver the AirBlueViaTechHubSybaseMMA
Microsoft has finally ejected an Indian company which was one of its "Gold" partners from the scheme after deciding it was taking part in a "fake virus" telephone support scam.But Microsoft has been criticised for slow action, after one IT consultant said he had been trying to bring the activities of Comantra, based in Kolkata, to its attention for more than six months, and says that the US software giant has been warned about similar companies' actions for at least 18 months.The Guardiandetailed last yearhow call centres in India are used to call people in the UK, Australia, New Zealand, US and Canada by people claiming that they are acting for "Microsoft" or "Windows", and that they have been "alerted" to problems with the user's computer. They then direct them to Event Viewer, a console program on the Windows operating system, which shows messages that to the average user look alarming – but are in fact harmless internal messages used by the system.The callers then use remote login software to gain access to the user's computer, and "fix" the problems; in some cases they also install programs including antivirus and even entire operating system upgrades. They then demand a fee.The UK police have determined that the actions constitute fraud because there is nothing wrong with the users' machines, and that the money is extracted under false pretences. Scores of people who have contacted the Guardian after being scammed have demanded, and usually received, repayments from banks and credit card providers.Information passed to the Guardian by sources familiar with the volume of transactions made by the fake support call companies suggest the scam is worth roughly £2m per year. It has grown in size over the past two years, and is believed to be masterminded by one man based in the city of Kota in Rajasthan.Now Microsoft has thrown Comantra, a website registered to an address in Kolkata, India, out of its "Gold Partner" membership scheme. "Gold Partners" are the top level of Microsoft's "solution partners" and get priority listing in Microsoft's online directory of companies to work with: to achieve the status they have to demonstrate particular levels of technical expertise to Microsoft, plus "the proven ability to deliver solutions featuring Microsoft products",the company says. There is also an annual fee of about £2,900. However, Microsoft does not audit the business practices of companies that gain its accreditation.Comantra had not replied to a request for a response by the time of publication.The Guardian has been contacting Microsoft since June 2010 pointing out India-based companies which claim to have Microsoft Partner and Gold Partner status which take part in the "cold call virus scam", and received repeated statements saying that it does not approve of them.The UK police have in the past taken action to shut down sites used to make people think that the "support calls" come from valid organisations.But the Guardian's investigations have found that they are built using a template and that as quickly as one is closed, another one or two are opened. Staff are thought to work off scripts from a small number of call centres from which they can claim to be working for a large number of such sites.A British IT consultant who complained to Microsoft after being contacted repeatedly by Comantra says the US company has been too slow to act."I don't think Microsoft has taken this at all serious. It knew about the problem for at least 18 months,through posts on its own internet forums. I reported the issue in March 2011 to their security guru Monika Josi, and I think she has done nothing about it."He declined to give his name, because, he said: "These scammers don't have any scruples. I don't want to have to worry about whether they would track me down. But they target vulnerable people by calling during the day, when you'll get retired people or carers who won't know what this is about, and who will be taken in if they're told the call is from 'Microsoft' or 'Windows'."Comantra's site had removed any mention of its former Gold Partner status by Thursday morning. But it was still showing logos for the antivirus services McAfee and Norton.In a statement, Microsoft said: "We were made aware of a matter involving one of the members of the Microsoft Partner Network acting in a manner that caused us to raise concerns about this member's business practices. Following an investigation, the allegations were confirmed and we took action to terminate our relationship with the partner in question and revoke their Gold status."There are no circumstances under which we would ever allow partners or any other organisations to pose as Microsoft. We view matters such as these extremely seriously and take immediate action if such behaviour is brought to our attention and found to be the case. We continue to encourage customers to exercise caution from scams and follow the guidance found atmicrosoft.com/security."
Gamers will gain access to nearly 150 top-tier titles on Thursday asOnLive, the on-demand cloud gaming service, launches in the UK.Consumers can sign up for free at and stream triple-A games via almost any broadband Internet connection to their HDTV, PC or Mac. OnLive says the service will soon extend to iPad and Android tablets.OnLive founder and CEO Steve Perlman says the cloud-gaming service can offer game experiences on virtually any connected device."OnLive is incredibly excited to bring instant-play, on-demand cloud gaming to the UK," said Perlman. "It's an entirely new way of experiencing top-tier video games, anywhere, anytime with awesome cloud-powered features and community unlike anything you've ever seen before."Among the titles on offer through OnLive's service are recent releases such as Deus Ex: Human Revolution, DiRT 3, Homefront and F.E.A.R. 3. Players can also gain access to top-rated titles such as Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood, Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4 and Batman: Arkham Asylum.Gamers who sign up for OnLive's services have several offers in front of them. First-time buyers can purchase their OnLive PlayPass Game for just £1.OnLive has also announced a partnership with BT for its launch, in which BT's broadband customers will be offered three months of free access to the cloud-gaming service.Finally, anyone attending the Eurogamer Expo gaming convention in London can get a free OnLive Game System, while supplies last.In addition to its deal with BT, OnLive has also announced a strategic launch partnership with retailer Game, which will introduce the OnLive Game Service to UK consumers via its e-commerce sites later this year.
"Gamers can't tell real-world from fantasy," screamedthe headlinein the Metro on Wednesday morning. Dr Mark Griffiths, who heads up Nottingham Trent University's International Gaming Research Unit, must have slumped back in his chair with incredulous horror when he read that.His team had been carrying out another video game study when they discovered that many of their 42 interviewees were talking about a similar experience. Often, after playing a game for a long time, they would momentarily transfer elements of the game content, or the interface, into their real-lives, usually harmlessly.Griffiths knew it was a common phenomenon – he'd experienced it himself playing Tetris – but it hadn't been named or categorised. So the department came up with a term – Game Transfer Phenomenon – and started looking into it. The resulting report has just been published in the International Journal of Cyber Behaviour, Psychology and Learning."The academic literature goes back to 1993," says Griffiths. "There was a case of a woman who had auditory hallucinations; she just couldn't get the tune of the game she was playing out of her head – it was very intrusive. But what came out of our pilot research were lots of different experiences, some that were auditory, some visual and some were tactile. We had the example of a teacher who dropped his pen and immediately reached for a joypad button to retrieve it, as though he were in a game."Most of the experiences were neutral and often quite positive. We distinguished between what we call automatic GTP, which are almost like reflexes or classically conditioned responses, and those where players deliberately take elements out of the game and work them into their day-to-day routines."There are examples in the paper of players using game scenarios and systems in everyday language – for example, joking about "levelling up" when they learn a new skill, or quoting liberally from game scenes.So what's going on here? What does this tell us about the human mind? "We've argued that a lot of these will be classically conditioned responses," says Griffiths. "Go back to basic psychology and think of Pavlov and his dogs. If you're in a game and doing something repetitively, you're using the controls automatically, in the same way as an experienced driver can do it almost instinctively."So if you come out of the game and come across a similar situation in real life, this conditioned response kicks in for a second or two. From our interviews it's clear that gamers fully realise they're not in a video game – they're just taken back to it."Which, of course, directly contradicts that bizarre Metro headline. "Some of what I'm reading in the papers goes way beyond what we were saying. This idea that players can't tell the difference between reality and fantasy is just nonsense, it's not what our paper is saying at all."But then, the elements that have been picked up by the Daily Mail and the Metro are the sections in the research that mention violent fantasies; several participants in the survey appeared to daydream about solving real-life problems – like strict teachers – with violent strategies drawn from games like GTA and Max Payne. Isn't that a problematic leap from such a small group of interviewees?"It's probably not that different from the way you may relive a TV programme or a film you've seen," says Griffiths. "It's just that, in terms of screen-based technology, a lot of people now spend more time playing games than watching TV. We're not saying this is a new phenomenon, we're trying to categorise all the different types of experience."Griffiths, who has previously studied gambling addiction, says the point of the research is understanding repetitive behaviours and their effects. "Some people may be worried that they're seeing things, but if they know it's a fairly normal phenomenon with no long lasting effects it might make them feel better. If we find in our future research that GTP is mostly experienced by intensive game players, we may be able to set time limits in order to stop the effects from happening."He is also keen to point at the original report is just the beginning. "There's been a lot of criticism this morning that we've based these findings on just 42 players - how can this be representative? The paper quite clearly states it's a small interview study. But now we've collected over 2,000 different experiences, and now my co-author Angelica Ortiz de Gortari is categorising them, seeing whether the taxonomy we developed in this initial paper is more widespread; and it certainly seems to be the case."What worries me, though, is some of the language, some of the insinuations, in the report. In one section the team writes: "The close resemblance to real life sceneries (sic) in video games may have opened a 'Pandora's Box' for some players." This emotive metaphor comes after long sections cross-headed 'Criminal thoughts' and 'Dangerous behaviour', detailing some violent game-related fantasies apparently experienced by interviewees.It didn't take an enormous mental leap for the Daily Mail reporter to go from the Nottingham Trent University research to the Ryan Donovan murder case. It's tabloid gold dust – and indeed, the connection is made in the third para of the Mail's story on the research.Nobody is helped by this, nobody gains. If there is evidence of negative emotional or psychological experiences as a result of GTPs, it must be dealt with in rigorous scientific language, scrupulously tied to data. Research reality and tabloid perception are vastly different, the former must not court the latter. That is a Pandora's Box that should never be opened.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamCritical security update for zero-day attack available for Adobe Flash Player &gt;&gt; Adobe"Critical vulnerabilities have been identified in Adobe Flash Player 10.3.183.7 and earlier versions for Windows, Macintosh, Linux and Solaris, and Adobe Flash Player 10.3.186.6 and earlier versions for Android.  These vulnerabilities could cause a crash and potentially allow an attacker to take control of the affected system."There are reports that one of these vulnerabilities (CVE-2011-2444) is being exploited in the wild in active targeted attacks designed to trick the user into clicking on a malicious link delivered in an email message. This universal cross-site scripting issue could be used to take actions on a user's behalf on any website or webmail provider if the user visits a malicious website."We've forgotten - when was the most recent security update for HTML5?Getting hacked out of business &gt;&gt; F-Secure Weblog"DigiNotar -- the CA that got hacked -- announced bankruptcy yesterday. This is a very clear case where a company folded because it was hacked."However, this is not the first time something similar has happened."Handful of examples. Notably absent: HBGary.Apple: broker Wedbush adds to 'best ideas,' cuts Nokia estimates &gt;&gt; Barrons.com"[Wedbush Securities' Scott] Sutherland now sees Apple shipping 21m iPhones in the fiscal Q4 ending this month, up from a prior 20m estimate. He sees the company shipping 8.8m iPad units, up from his prior 6m estimate."Sutherland also raised his fiscal Q1 estimates, with 26m iPhone units, up from 23m previously."Sutherland writes that demand for Apple's iPhone 4 "remains strong," while there is "a large opportunity to increase distribution" of the devices, especially in China. He notes Apple added 42 carriers in the last quarter, but is still below the 600 carriers he counts for Research in Motion (RIMM)."Which means a lot of opportunity now that Apple offers GSM and CDMA phones.HTC says it will prevail over Apple &gt;&gt; Korea TimesStandard executive talk, but more interesting is this: "HTC admits that it plans to develop its own mobile operating system (OS), joining an industry-wide trend."'We've opened many doors. But HTC will also strengthen traditional ties with our existing partners Microsoft and Google,' said an unnamed executive."To better compete with Apple's iOS, Samsung Electronics is rolling out more smartphone using its own mobile platform called Bada, which means ocean in Korean."HTC, however, was on a slippery slope in terms of its development phase in its own OS as it would lack available applications."If the HTC OS turns out to be a complete failure, analysts think it could be catastrophic for the firm. HTC sees Samsung Electronics as its biggest rival."An uncompetitive and content-lacking OS would set HTC back and undoubtedly drag down its brand loyalty."Google ad rate for Microsoft said to be under US investigation &gt;&gt; Bloomberg"Adam Kovacevich, a spokesman for Mountain View, California- based Google, said that while company officials didn't know the details of Microsoft's allegations about ads, rates are usually determined in part by how closely related an ad is to a user's search."'One of the reasons our ad system works so well is that it is built on showing relevant ads to consumers,' Kovacevich said."Jack Evans, a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft, confirmed the company had made advertising complaints against Google and declined to discuss specifics."Google 'shouldn't be permitted to pursue practices that restrict others from innovating and offering competitive alternatives,' Evans said. 'That's what it's doing now.'"Microsoft seems to be claiming that ad rates for it were hiked 50-fold.Former eBay CEO Meg Whitman being considered for HP CEO job &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"Former eBay CEO Meg Whitman is being considered by Hewlett-Packard directors as a possible candidate for CEO, in a move that would replace its current leader Léo Apotheker, according to several sources close to the situation."Perhaps if he leaves they could give him a TouchPad as a leaving present.Anonymous: Insidiae, Psychologia, Et Liber Pericula &gt;&gt; Infosec Island"A distinct feature of group think is that it is exacerbated by a lack of clear rules on decision making. It is my contention that the diaspora of Anonymous inherently has the lack of decision making rules, as well as a large amount of group think dynamics within its younger set. The group as a whole though may not mean the total "group" (i.e. Anonymous rank and file) but whatever group has collected to decide on an "op""Also, given the nature of the Anonymous collective as seen online, they tend to not be very forgiving toward those they do not like or disagree with. This fractiousness and tendencies toward berating behaviour tend to re-enforce the group think model."Thoughtful piece, which also points to other elements - particularly the love of conspiracy theories and the idea that actions won't have consequences because, well, they're virtual, aren't they?Market capitalisations for Microsoft and Apple since November 1999 &gt;&gt; Wolfram|AlphaApple's bigger now, but still nowhere near as big as Microsoft got during the dot-com excitement.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Microsoft is to start rolling out "Mango", its next-generation update to the Windows Phone mobile software, in "a week or two" for existing handsets in customers' hands.The timing means that Microsoft has hit its internal October deadline for the public release of the software update, aftercarriers began testing the final version in July."Boom… no more rumours. Mango to start rolling out on Windows Phone in just a week or two",tweetedBrandon Watson, who is in charge of apps and developers on Windows Phone at Microsoft.Mango brings ahuge number of improvements to the system, and significantly expands the number of locations and languages where Windows Phone is available worldwide.The timing also means that Nokia will be able to start offering its first smartphones based on Windows Phone from next month. The Finnish company is staking its future on Microsoft's platform, after Stephen Elop, the former Microsoft executive who took over a year ago, decided to kill off its existing Symbian platform and to shun Google's Android.The Guardian said in February that thefirst Nokia Windows Phone devices would not appear until October, and would run Mango, which Microsoft has branded as "Windows Phone 7.5". Elop is expected to launch the first handset at the Nokia World show in London on 22 October.Eric Hautata, the general manager for customer experience engineering in the Windows Phone division,wrote in a blogpostthat: "For months, we and dozens of our partner companies have been laying the groundwork for the Windows Phone 7.5 update – and making solid progress. As a result, we now expect to start rolling it out in the next week or two."He also counselled impatient handset owners against installing unofficial or leaked copies of software claiming to be the update because they could disrupt the phone's operation. "During the official Windows Phone 7.5 update process, every Windows Phone will also receive software from the handset manufacturer," he said. "This matched and paired firmware has been painstakingly tuned so your phone – and apps – work with all the new features of Windows Phone 7.5. Since your phone requires the proper firmware to function as designed, my advice is simple: steer clear of bootleg updates and homebrew tools."Since its release in October 2010, Windows Phone has failed to make a significant impression on the broader smartphone market, gaining only around 1.2% share, while other platforms including Google's Android, Apple's iOS, Samsung's Bada and even Microsoft's previous mobile OS Windows Mobile, have taken bigger slices.But analysts and a number of carriers have expressed confidence that in time it will become a significant proportion of the market, with some forecasting that it will have a bigger market share by 2015 than Apple or Google.Some carriers have seen only slow sales of Windows Phone handsets; Three UK has ceased selling the Samsung Omnia, which was the only model that it carried, but told the Guardian on Wednesday that it has not yet taken any decision on whether it will sell Windows Phone devices in the future.
It's Thursday, first day of the Eurogamer Expo!
How should app developers and startups be approaching journalists and bloggers? A pair of sessions at the Twilio conference in San Francisco saw writers from Business Insider and VentureBeat outline how they want to be pitched.Matt Rosoff, West Coast editor atBusiness Insider, was first up, explaining what makes a story in Silicon Valley."I'm most interested in market movers, companies that have a real business or are on their way to building a real business, disruptive companies that are poised to throw off the incumbents in the space," he said."It helps to have some real customers and some actual traction, some revenue, those kinds of things. Early-stage startups can be interesting if they're doing something really new, but I tend to have some degree of scepticism. Ideas are one thing, but doing it is another."Rosoff admitted that there is an explosion of "two people writing a mobile app that helps you find the best party or discover new music" than more enterprised-focused startups, and that the former are "frankly more sexy to write about". But he added that personal stories are always interesting, when there's a sparky founder or an argument brewing between two personalities.He also said startups should not just look to browbeat journalists about the merits of their app or service, but be prepared to talk more widely about trends and events in their industry."I wanna know what you think about other topics we might be interested in," he said. "It's important to be well-rounded."Rosoff said that he regularly gets between 300 and 400 emails a day, and gave some tips for startups writing emails to journalists. Good email introductions: those that say what existing company a startup is aiming to disrupt; news of funding from a respected VC, or simply a pithy line or two explaining why the journalist might be interested in a piece of news based on what else they've been writing about recently."Random 'here's our product, write about it'? Almost zero chance that's going to happen," he said. However, when Rosoff was asked about whether smaller companies have as much of a shot at coverage on big tech sites as the larger ventures, he said they do."It's not always the bigger the better," he said. "If you're doing something very interesting… I have written about two-person companies who are getting seed funding."But he came back to the idea of the personal story: a two-man startup where one or both have worked at interesting companies before and have a story to tell will be more interesting.The second journalist to take the stage was Jolie O'Dell, technology reporter atVentureBeat. She focuses more on early-stage companies. So when should they talk to journalists?"The right time to talk to a journalist is when you're excited," she said. "If you're excited, we'll catch the enthusiasm and help you tell your story... Don't make us wait two months because your investors told you to wait until you've launched."She also advised startups to find the "1-5 people" who cover their vertical or related technology, follow what they're writing about, and then send them an email when the time is right – when the startup is excited, presumably. Or when they get funding, even if they can't talk about what they plan to do with it yet."I'll share a little secret: we sometimes write it just so we have something to link back to later," she said. "A lot of those posts aren't really interesting and don't get a ton of pageviews... We're just writing about it so we have something to link back to when that company does have something to share."When should startups engage a PR agency? "If you've got 10 employees, you don't need a PR agency, and if you've got fewer than a million users, you don't need a PR agency," she said. "What you need is those 1-5 people you talk to regularly... Once you have the right people to tell your story, they'll tell it, and it then trickles down."O'Dell said initial pitch emails should be simple and get to the point as quickly as possible, leaving the detail for any follow up. Don't include too many buzz words, and do the thing that you think will capture the journalist's interest.She also warned against gimmicks – They get passed around, they get gossiped about, and you will develop the kind of reputation you don't want" – and suggested that after one email pitch and one follow-up, startups should avoid hassling a writer demanding to know why they had been ignored.How can startups talk about highly technical ideas to journalists and bloggers in a way that will make a good story?"There are two sides to it. One side is that most journalists wouldn't know an API call from a hole in the ground, and you have to be very cogniscant of that. Talk to them like you would talk to a child," she said, while quickly adding that this does not mean patronising them."Two, listen to yourself talk: 'Do I sound like a tool? Do I sound self-involved and making this minor detail more important than it needs to be? Or am I letting the really exciting things about what I'm doing bubble to the top?'"However O'Dell also had some thoughts on how journalists can do a better job of writing about technology startups, based on her own experience of learning to code in order to better understand the companies she was covering."I think all technology bloggers should study programming for six months, otherwise you don't know what you're talking about!" she said.
Block 11.45pm ET:Google chairmanEric Schmidtis appearing before a Senate committee this afternoon.The key issue under examination is whether Google uses its massive lead in internet search to unfairly promote its other business lines, such as YouTube, Google Books, or Google Travel.Google is the new Microsoft, an analogy neither side likes. It dominates online search like Microsoft dominates PC software and now, like Microsoft before it, Google is being accused of shutting out competition.The competition is on later. Yelp CEO Jeremy Stoppelman, Nextag CEO Jeffrey Katz, and Thomas Barnett, a lawyer for Expedia, are all expected to give Schmidt their best shot after his initial testimony.Schmidt is due on at 2pm, and we'll have live updates throughout the hearing.Block 21.52pm:The fun started earlier today – there are mimes!Consumer Watchdog, which is exactly what it says on the label, has been an outspoken critic of Google for sometime. The consumer lobby group has hired three mimes to follow people around the Dirksen Senate Office Building where Schmidt will testify wearing white track suits with Google's famous "Don't be Evil"  mantra emblazoned on them. The mimes are silently tracking people just like Google does – geddit! And I thought only the French used mimes to make political points.Block 31.54pm:Mimes are fairly polite for Consumer Watchdog standards. The group put out a couple of videos featuring an animated Eric Schmidt as a deeply creepy ice cream truck salesman stealing children's secrets and every bit as scary as the child catcher in Chitty Chitty Bang Bang. "Lollipops! And all free today!"Block 41.57pm:Sen. Herb Kohl, chairing the meeting, has started the proceedings. Said we should recognise Google's amazing achievements but also not to"deploy its market power to squelch competition."Google isn't just a search engine anymore, he says. It's now a conglomerate and rivals complain it is using its size to stifle "free and fair competition.""We need to protect the ability of the next Google to emerge."Block 52.08pm:Here's alinkto Consumer Watchdog's latest attack on Google. It features Schmidt and Larry Page stalking a politician on his way to a public toilet  – a scenario coldly calculated to worry a lot of people in Washington.Block 62.11pm:Schmidtspeaking: "We get it. We get the lessons of our corporate predecessors."It's all pretty obvious stuff so far. Putting consumers first. "Loyalty not lock-in." You can go elsewhere whenever you want. Yadda yadda yadda."One company's past is not another company's future," he says.Block 72.20pm:Sen. Kohlwith the first question. Asks if Google's ever expanding empire means it is inevitable it will end up favouring its own businesses over rivals.Schmidt says open internet means consumers can move anytime. "We live in constant fear that consumers will switch to other services."Block 82.27pm:Sen. Mike Leeasking whether how Google ranks its own information in searches.Schmidt says: "I'm not aware of any unnecessary or strange boosts or biases" for Google services in search.This is kinda reminding me of the banking hearings. I imagine we may see that quote again.Block 92.32pm:Sen. Leeaccusing Google of "cooking" their search results. Always coming in third in shopping searches. He's got a chart showing how Google Products ranks in top 3 of more than 100 searches. It's magic!Block 102.39pm:Jeff Jarvis, author of What Would Google Do, is piling in on behalf of the tech giant on Twitter. "Gosh. When I go to a restaurant they push dishes based on their profitability. Must they be neutral in their dish listings?" he Tweets.Block 112.40pm:Sen. Charles Schumerjust used most of the seven minutes he has been allotted to pitch for Google to invest in New York's Hudson Valley. Jeez.Block 122.45pm:Schmidt is being grilled on the  drug ads Google got fined for recently. He's very apologetic. "It was clearly a mistake."Block 132.49pm:Sen. Amy Klobucharis up now. She has just admitted to Googling her own name. She's asking about the theft of intellectual property and what Google can do that. Schmidt is describing it as a "wack-a-mole" problem. "It's a huge issue," says Schmidt. Yep. But is this really what we are here to talk about? Now she's talking about small business in Minnesota and making a pitch for Google to set up shop there. Golly. Do you think any of Google's critics might wonder if the senators are more interested in Google's cash than any problems it is causing?Block 143.03pm:Sen. Al Frankenis on now. "I love Google," he says. Now for a bit of a kicking. Franken says he was "taken aback" by Schmidt's comments earlier. Asked if Google's searches reflect an unbiased algorithm he said, after some hesitation, "I believe so." That seemed like a pretty fuzzy answer coming from the chairman. If you don't know, who does."Block 153.08pm:Frankenis asking about Yelp's criticism of Google. Yelp bossJeremy Stoppelmanis on later. He HATES Google - andhow.Block 163.14pm:Sen. Richard Blumenthalis on now. Boy does he speak s l o w l y. He has also had his Google issues in the past. In May he quizzed the firm about its Google Street View cars  that have been scouring the world's streets, building an online map and sparking a cottage industry for people spotting weird shots of nose pickers. nudists, corpses and the defecating. Oh -  and in the process downloading a huge treasure trove of data no one gave them permission to gather including e-mail messages and passwords from unsecured private wireless networks.Google has stopped taking any new street view pictures inGermany, where the firm ran afoul of  the German's strict privacy laws. This from a nation of nudists in Birkenstocks. But we all know that Google will have the last  (maniacal) laugh). As the search giant's pictures go out of date, Germany will cease to exist. The knock on effects for the Eurozone will be catastrophic.Block 173.17pm:Schmidtsays they had "a long conversation years ago about how not to be evil" if Google became big. "We think we have done the things that would be appropriate," he says.Block 183.20pm:Sen. Kohlis talking about Google's role as a "gatekeeper with enormous power" over how people get news and information. "Should we be troubled by any one company, however well intended, having huge, huge influence," he asks.Schmidt is making the argument that social media is having a larger influence on how people find information.Block 193.32pm:It's getting a bit hard to work out what these people are after. The senators are flip flopping all over the place. Mobile, search algorithms, bids for Google's investment. There are some real concerns here but it's about as useful as a bad Google search.Block 203.38pm:Eric Schmidtis free for the afternoon. Watch out for those mimes on your way out Eric. He looks very pleased with how it went - as he should because so far it's gone nowhere.Block 213.44pm:Thomas Barnett, anti-trust lawyer, is the first man up to bash Google. "Google doesn't get it," he says.He's quoting Schmidt: "Managing search at our scale is a very serious barrier to entry."They have market power. Their market power is expanding. Andoid is on more than 50% of mobile's shipped in the US today. "Is there a problem? Yes there is a problem if Google is engaged in improper conduct," says Barnett.Block 22Barnettis setting the scene for what's to come. The internet giant's behaviour is "improper" he says - spoken like a lawyer.Block 233.49pm:Jeffrey Katz, CEO of Nextag is up now. Katz started working with Google 10 years ago, it was love at first sight. Sadly the honeymoon is well and truly over. "Today Google doesn't play fair," he says.Block 243.52pm:Katzsays Google is "not a search engine anymore" it is a company that presents the information it wants you to see based on its own commercial interests, he says.Block 253.54pm:Jeremy Stoppelman, founder of Yelp is up now.Not being in Google is tantamount to not existing, he says. So when Google said it wanted Yelp's reviews for free, they had to provide them. Now it's playing nicely - could that be because the government is investigating possible monopoly abuses, he asks.There is bad blood here, of course, Google nearly bought Yelp but ended up buying rival Zagat. But it's a pretty hard hitting attack.Block 264.02pm:Nathan Newman, policy analyst, makes an interesting point via Twitter: "Nice to hear a business guy like Stoppelman arguing that government action can protect innovation."Block 274.06pm:Barnettis being asked if he believes Google is a "monopoly power". Well duh! Of course he does.Block 284.07pm:Susan Creighton, another anti-trust expert and a former Federal Trade Commission director, doesn't agree. She says Google doesn't have monopoly power. "It's free and instantaneous to try someone else," she says. There is no impediment to switch.Block 294.17pm:StoppelmanandKatzsay that they wouldn't have started their businesses today. Google is too dominant.Block 304.26pm:Frankenis asking did Google pay Apple to pay to be its default search engine on iPhones.Creighton, friend of Google, says she doesn't know. "Apple's not going to take the worst search engine."The problem here seems to be that we think of Google as a public library but it's a public company.Block 314.35pm:Sen. Leeis asking what is Google worst sin and how can it be rectified.Stoppelmansays it can separate its search from its own properties. Dream on Jeremy.Block 324.38pm:Oh dear.Frankenhas said "Microsoft." Eric Schmidt avoided saying the dreaded M word earlier. Franken says it's not enough to say "trust us." He asks Google's palCreightonif there should be a technical panel to look at Google just as there was with Microsoft. Are we heading for a full on anti-trust inquiry? And not an antirust inquiry - which as my colleagueRichard Adamspoints out would take place in room WD40.Block 334.45pm:Creighton,who worked on the Microsoft investigation says that with Google "changing their algorithm 500 times last year, a technical comittee would be too slow." I don't quite get why that would stop anything.Barnettsays he's very concerned about Google and that a technical panel is a good idea. But he would, wouldn't he.Block 34And it's over.Sen. Kohlthanks everyone and says they have added "much information and light" to this "very important topic."The whole show was a bit hit and miss, rather like the average Google search, but I doubt that this is the last time we'll see the internet search giant up before a panel in Washington.The right,Mike Lee, and the left,Al Franken, seem to agree that Google is too big and powerful and something needs to be done.I bet it's not the last we have heard of Franken's suggestion that Google voluntarily create "a committee of technologists" to review how Google ranks sites on its search engine "and provide assurances Google treats everyone equally."Creightondescribed the suggestion as "another word for regulation." Quite so. But as Google gets ever more massive, the calls for greater regulation are going to get louder.Thanks for reading. Bye.
In April this year, I was invited to give a talk on the psychology of hackers to Fidelity National Information Services (FIS) at its annual get-together in Milwaukee.FISis one of the biggest providers of technology and card services to the&nbsp;banking industry worldwide. Unsurprisingly, cyber security is among&nbsp;its top priorities.The talk went well and when answering the audience's questions, I&nbsp;referred to a recent cybercrime case in&nbsp;Calgary, in Alberta, Canada, in which a cyber gang had hacked into the computer system of a company that provides pre-paid debit cards. These are familiar overseas and also offered by some British banks, aimed at young people and those who can't get credit through the normal channels.The scam was impressive in its simplicity and effectiveness. The gang bought a number of pre-paid debit cards in different locations and placed $15 on each card. Once they had broken into the computer system of the company that issued them, they found the network area that dealt with the limits placed on each card. They sought out the cards they had purchased and, using the control they had established over the company's networked system, they electronically raised the spending limit&nbsp;on the cards from $15 to tens of&nbsp;thousands of dollars. Over one weekend, they extracted around $1m (£640,000) using the affected cards in ATM machines around the world.My remarks seemed to strike a nerve, although I couldn't put my finger on why. Three months later, the reason suddenly became clear to me when arguably the finest investigative reporter who researches cybercrime, Brian Krebs,posted a note on his websiteabout a major security breach at a payment technology company: my old&nbsp;friends at FIS.But not only that – it turned out that FIS was a victim of exactly the same pre-paid credit card scam as the company in Calgary. Except that FIS had lost $13m (£8.3m) and the scammers,according to krebsonsecurity.com, had used just 22 rigged pre-paid credit cards to syphon off this vast amount of&nbsp;money.Traditional bank robbers must be absolutely gobsmacked when they hear sums like this being hoovered up by cyber criminals week in, week out. Krebs went on to point out that the FBI had made no arrests in the FIS case. Nobody expected anyone to be nabbed anytime soon. So I thought I would make some inquiries in the cyber underworld. One of my contacts was acquainted with the mastermind of the&nbsp;pre-paid scam at FIS. Over a three-&nbsp;year period, my contact told me,&nbsp;his organisation had earned $34m (£22m). Who knows? They might well&nbsp;have been responsible for the Calgary heist.The Mr Big who orchestrated the whole operation, I was told, kept 70% of those profits for himself – only 30% went to the hackers and the so-called "cash-out" team – that is, the people who have somewhat laboriously to go from ATM to ATM and extract up to $500 each time (before, of course, transferring 70% back to Mr Big).To my knowledge, the gang has not visited any companies in the UK. But Britain, along with the US, Canada, western Europe, Australia and New Zealand, is a top target for cyber criminals from across the globe. The British are dangerously vulnerable to cyber attack of all shapes and sizes,according to the latest report on cyber security from the UK thinktank Chatham House. It is high time, the report argues, that we got our act together. It is no longer the case that banks are the prime targets; any business, be it manufacturing, military, legal or financial, is&nbsp;now computer-based and therefore vulnerable to attack. A few hours after the publication of the Chatham House document last week, the government unexpectedly announced it would be postponing the presentation of its new cyber security strategy to parliament. A&nbsp;sign of nerves, perhaps? Certainly, getting this strategy wrong might prove very expensive.But what exactly are we protecting ourselves against? We have heard some dire warnings in recent months about the extent of the threat posed by illegal activity on the internet. In 2009, the White House suggested that cybercrime and industrial espionage inflicted damage of around $1tn (£640bn) a year – almost 1.75% of global GDP. Can it be true? The answer is that, whatever anyone may say, nobody has the faintest idea. The $1tn could be a wildly exaggerated figure put out there&nbsp;by the cyber security industry in order to generate sales. Or it could be the result of some hyperactive algorithms. Or it could be true. But nobody can assert with any confidence which it is.The activities of the pre-paid gang, according to my underworld source, were only discovered because they committed an uncharacteristic error allowing FIS's defences to pick up on the presence of a foreign body in its networked system. If that had not happened, the gang might still be merrily ripping off FIS and everyone else, unbeknown to the rest of the world.But although there is no precision about figures out there, there is no doubt that threats do exist. And it is high time people started to learn what they are and how to protect themselves against them.Crime on the web is changing very rapidly. Until quite recently, most of it took place on so-called "carder" sites with names such as CarderPlanet, Shadowcrew and DarkMarket (a "carder" is simply a hacker who deals in credit cards or card details). These were in effect department stores for&nbsp;criminals.The first and the most celebrated among thieves was CarderPlanet. Members would come to this website, run out of Odessa in Ukraine, to buy and sell stolen credit card details, to purchase viruses, trojans and worms with which they could compromise victims' computers, to take tutorials in&nbsp;how to deploy the latest cyber weapons, or to hire a botnet – a network comprising thousands of zombie computers – to use in an attack against your enemies.CarderPlanet's significance in the history of cybercrime lies in its founders' introduction of an escrow system. This worked almost like a criminal version of PayPal, using legitimate channels such as Western Union, and enabled them to overcome the central problem facing all cyber criminals – how to trade with somebody on the web when you know that, as a criminal, he or she, like you, is inherently untrustworthy. Escrow, whereby a neutral officer from the website would hold both the credit card details being sold and the money from the purchaser until they were satisfied that both sides were genuine, solved that problem at a&nbsp;stroke. It also led to the industrialisation of crime on&nbsp;the web.One of the co-founders of CarderPlanet, the Ukrainian hacker known as Script, described the pioneers of digital thieving as "lone wolves". In an interview withHacker(Xakep.ru), the great chronicler of Russia's cyber underworld, he explained that: "They don't huddle together in groups or form their own distinctive networks; everyone works by himself, for himself." But in the past few years, the lone wolves have begun to form packs, usually under the leadership of charismatic individuals, such as Mr Big from the pre-paid scam. "Carder" sites such as DarkMarket have slipped out of fashion because they were too easily infiltrated by law enforcement agencies such as the FBI and the Serious Organised Crime Agency here in Britain. Instead, the lone wolves have started to form packs with trusted friends and these look more like traditional organised crime groups with a clear hierarchy and division of labour.One of the most lucrative scams revolves around so-called "scareware", malicious software that plays on the fear of virus infection, which was perfected by a Ukrainian-based company called Innovative Marketing. IM employed dozens of young people in the Ukrainian capital Kiev, most of whom believed they were involved in a startup company that was selling legitimate security products. Except they weren't. Computer users who had clicked on a certain link placed by a hacker on a legitimate website had become infected. Hackers, in turn, triggered a pop-up on the browser warning the user that their machine had been compromised by a virus. The only way, the advert explained, they could rid their computers of the electronic critters now crawling all over their hard disk and memory was to click on a link and purchase Malware Destroyer 2009, to name but one of their countless products. Once you had downloaded Malware Destroyer (for €40), IM would instruct you to remove your existing anti-virus system and install its product. Once installed, however, it didprecisely nothing – it was an empty piece of software, although now, of course, you&nbsp;were open to infection by any passing virus and you had paid for that&nbsp;dubious privilege.A researcher for the software companyMcAfeein Hamburg, Dirk Kolberg, began to monitor this operation. He followed the scareware back to its source in east Asia and found that the administrator of IM's servers had left some ports wide open, so Kolberg was at liberty to wander into it and peruse at will. What he uncovered was quite breathtaking.Innovative Marketing was making so&nbsp;much money that it had established three call centres, one in English, one in&nbsp;German and one in French, to assist baffled customers who were trying to install their non-functioning products. This was one of the most theatrical examples of internet crime yet discovered. Kolberg worked out from trawling through the receipts he also found on the server that the scareware scam had generated tens of millions of dollars in revenues for the management. The FBI busted the US end of that operation but its two alleged masterminds, a Swede and an Indian, who are on the agency's most-wanted list, remain on&nbsp;the run.Innovative Marketing Kiev was probably the most lucrative operation to date, but by no means the only one. Yet although lucrative, it was, for the perpetrators, labour intensive. Streamlining in cybercrime, though, has led to outsourcing. Sophisticated hackers and criminals are now able to control vast armies of zombie computers – ordinary PCs that you or I might be using this minute but whose computing power can be redirected to commit criminal acts on the internet. The only clue that this could be happening in the background would be the computer running more slowly. This army is then rented out for a significant fee to opportunistic criminals who do not want or do not have the ability to amass such a formidable computing weapon.This network can breach its targets and intended victims (usually banks, financial institutions or, of course, ordinary account holders) by sending email after email to overload the system, creating a diversion that allows hackers to gain access. It can also seek out serial numbers, login IDs and financial information such as credit card numbers. Eventually money is transferred to so-called money mules. These are (largely) unwitting characters, usually Americans or western Europeans, who respond to advertisements offering good returns for work carried out from your home computer. Successful candidates are then required to use their personal bank accounts on behalf of their new employer. The mules would receive, say, $200 and then forward $180 to Mr Big, holding back $20 as their commission. In a recent major FBI case, codenamedOperation Trident Tribunal, the mules had been instructed to send the money to a bank in Latvia, one of the three Baltic republics, along with Lithuania and Estonia, whose role in cybercrime is out of all proportion to their combined population of seven million.The emergence of such outsourcing accentuates one of the greatest problems that police face in dealing with organised crime. The structure acts as a mask that obscures the real money-makers: the people who assemble the zombie networks and the Mr Bigs who use their services. The mules are easy to catch but they are very small cogs in&nbsp;a more ruthless machine. The next challenge for law enforcement is not unlike that facing the Untouchables in&nbsp;Al Capone's Chicago. Capone, of course, was eventually busted for tax&nbsp;evasion. But how can you track down a digital Al Capone when you&nbsp;don't know who he is or where he&nbsp;is?DarkMarket: Cyberthieves, Cybercops and Youby Misha Glenny is published by The Bodley Head, price £20.darkmarketinsider.com
Vint Cerf, Google's chief internet evangelist, and the man who designed one of the key building blocks of the internet, warned that Facebook's 'closed' architecture meant that it was risk of eventually failing to keep up with the public who want an open standard so they can easily jump from one website to another.Speaking at an event organised by the Guardian, Cerf said that Facebook was at risk of following the path of companies such as AOL, whose original business model became irrelevant, or being rendered obsolete like proprietary networking systems once invented by the likes of IBM.Amongst US technologists, comparing Facebook to the old AOL or outdated IBM technology is a way of trying to argue by analogy that the wildly successful social network has no long term future - and comes in the week when Google is desperately trying to break Facebook's dominance withthe launch of its own Google+.Cerf first noted that AOL began in the 1980s as "a walled garden model" that "persisted for quite a while until the users of AOL forced it to be made accessible to the internet" - and that IBM persisted with "proprietary networking protocols" and was only forced to adopt internet technology for its computers because "users didn't want to be locked in" to one brand of hardware.He went onto to say that "Facebook was becoming that way" as "a closed walled garden" and that its problem was that the "ability to connect to people inside the walled garden" would be overwhelmed by "a desire to interconnect" to other social networks or websites.AOL was forced into a painful business transition that has gradually seen the company migrate from providing its own version of the internet into an online publisher, while the IBM technology he described no longer exists. Facebook, however, remains on a rapid growth path withits revenues doubling to $1.6bn in the first half of this year.Cerf, the designer of TCP/IP, contrasted Facebook with Twitter, which he said was "an interesting proposition" and particularly powerful because, despite the 140 character brevity of normal tweets, "you can put URLs [web addresses] in them, which lets you reach out into the gigantic expense of the internet".Google and Facebook have become locked in an increasingly intense rivalry as the newer social network grows rapidly, and spooks Google executives into believing that Facebook will eventually become the default form of online navigation. That has prompted Google to try and overhaul Facebook with its Google+ offer, the latest in several attempts after the high profile failures of Orkut andGoogle Buzzto try and create its own rival.Cerf said that "I do have a Facebook page" but added that he was unhappy that Facebook began blocking friend requests, warning those wanting to befriend him saying there were too many people trying to do the same thing. Cerf lightheartedly complained that he had been "mortally insulted" by Facebook's blocking, and after complaining to Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's chief operating officer, he was allowed to increase the number of his friends.However, that left Cerf bombarded with information about "what these friends were doing" news he conceded "I couldn't care about". He contrasted that with Google's rival Google+ system, which usesa system of 'circles'to allow members to distinguish between different spheres of connection, such as family and work colleagues - which Cerf argued gives people more control over who they share news and personal information with.
Twitter has announced that it has integrated one of the BlueVia APIs to give its users a new way of updating their social media profile.Users can now send a picture from any phone that supports the well-established MMS standard and it will be posted to their personal profile complete with the photo stored on Twitter's built-in photo sharing service.  The service is now active for O2 customers in the UK. There's more detail about how they achieved that over on theBlueVia blog.What's captured our imagination is that this opens up Twitter's multimedia features to a much bigger base of customers. It's exactly the type of service we want to see people creating with the BlueVia APIs.New technologies are the obvous place to look for innovation, but we can see that it's possible to disrupt even in well established fields. There is a lot of hype around native photo apps, but by enabling users to share through MMS Twitter is making their service truly cross-platform and accessible to a much bigger customer base.When Twitter first launched, the idea behind the service was beautifully simple - short, SMS-friendly messages sent between friends. It seems like a perfectly simple evolution that this is now possible through the humble MMS for millions more people.Set up your device to work with MMS on the Twitterwebsite.
Apple is expected to introduce the next version of its iPhone on 4 October, when the new chief executive Tim Cook will demonstrate his grip on the company after havingtaken overfrom Steve Jobs in August.The unveiling is also expected by many to include a simpler version of last year's iPhone 4 – which has become the best-selling smartphone in the world since its launch in June 2010 – which will allow Apple to attack China's huge market.The expectation around the launch was heightened on Wednesday night when Al Gore, a member of Apple's board, let slip while speaking in South Africa that "new iPhones [are] coming out next month. That was a plug." Toby Shapstak, editor of Stuff magazine in South Africa, who was at the meeting where Gore spoke, told the Guardian: "I listened to my voice recording, and he clearly said [iPhones] plural."Cook's appearance would be his first in public since he took over from Jobs, who has been on medical leave since January but fronted three public events for the company until his resignation.Cook ran the company's day-to-day operations during Jobs's previous medical absences in 2004 and 2009, and for the first half of this year. He has been at Apple since 1998 and is credited with turning its manufacturing and supply operations around.Apple did not return a request for comment ahead of publication.Internet rumours have suggested that the new model will have a slightly larger screen than the existing iPhone 4, and that it may include anNFC(near field communication) chip which would enable it to be used with payment services such asGoogle's Wallet service, which launched in the US earlier this week.That would allow it to compete with Google's Nexus S phone, released at the end of December, which contains an NFC chip, and other forthcoming phones from handset makers.News of the anticipated iPhone release, which wasreportedby John Paczkowski of the news website AllThingsD, helped push up Apple's stock in early trading in New York, where it gained more than $7 (£4.40) or 2%, having already risen by 10% compared to the Nasdaq index on which it is listed in the past week.The launch is surrounded by secrecy, with component makers in the Far East who supply parts and assemble the new iPhone reluctant to leak any details about their work for fear of losing contracts with Apple. Testimony in a recent court case in the US detailed how a Samsung employee gave details of screen sizes to US analysts ahead of the release of the iPad; Apple cut Samsung's contract soon afterwards.Valued at $387.1bn, Apple is presently the biggest firm by market capitalisation on the US stock market, having swapped places with the previous largest, the oil company Exxon, since mid-August.Expectation of a revised version of the iPhone, which is expected to be called the iPhone 5, have been buzzing around the internet for months. Analysts and observers also claim Apple will introduce a low-end smartphone to grab a wider market share from rival handset makers offering Google's Android mobile operating system, which is now the best-selling mobile OS worldwide with around 40% market share on new handsets.Some speculation suggests Cook might unveil a "phone" which leaves out voice capabilities but includes 3G data capabilities to replace its high-end iPod Touch, which presently has no phone capabilities but offers the other functionality of an iPhone, such as a touch screen and app downloads.Programmers building apps for the forthcoming version of the iPhone software, iOS 5, were warned on Sunday thatApple is wiping old backupsmade using test versions of that software on Thursday. Many have taken that to mean a final version is imminent. That is the software that will run on any revised iPhone, so the two would certainly be released at the same time.About 24m iPhones were sold in the second quarter of the year, making Apple the biggest seller of smartphones worldwide, ahead of Korea's Samsung and Finland's Nokia. It is also the biggest mobile phone company both by revenue and profit, having passed the former leader Nokia there in the second quarter.Edited 22 September to add detail about Al Gore comments.
BlackBerry maker Research in Motion (RIM) may have an unsold stockpile of nearly 800,000 PlayBook tablets – more than it shipped to wholesalers and retailers in its first six months – made for it by Quanta Computer, the world's largest PC contract maker.Quanta spokesman Elton Yangtold the Taiwanese trade paper Digitimesthat the company has cut staffing levels on its production lines in northern Taiwan by around 1,000 jobs to less than 2,000. However, he said that those who left had been contractors rather than full-time staff.While Yang would not confirm who its client is at the affected line, Fubon Securities analyst Arthur Liao said Quanta's Taiwan factory was specifically for Rim production, and that Quanta had shipped 1.5m PlayBooks in the first half.Figures released by RIM with its financial results for the quarter to the end of August showed that it shipped 200,000 of the 7in PlayBooks, and 500,000 in the three months before that. The rapid drop in shipments – and apparent lack of interest from buyers – means that it has had to cut back manufacturing.Orders to Quanta from Rim are reported to have dropped substantially as the company struggles to cope with the excess inventory. At its earnings call last week company executives hinted that they would begin price promotions over the next two quarters to get the devices into end-users' hands.Quanta's decision to cut staff and production suggests that Rim does not expect to clear its inventory before the end of its current financial year, which ends next May.An examination ofRIM's balance sheet for the quartershows that inventories – of stock in hand – have risen over the past six months, from $618m at the end of February before the PlayBook was launched, to $943m at the end of May when PlayBook shipments had just begun, to $1.372bn at the end of the latest quarter. While some of that inventory will include new BlackBerry 7 phones, it is likely that a substantial amount will be PlayBooks.The component analyst IHS iSupplireckonsthat the PlayBook has a bill of materials cost of $271, which would mean that 800,000 would add roughly $216m to Rim's inventory at cost price, the standard method for recording unsold stock. Unshipped PlayBooks would thus constitute about 15% by value of RIM's inventory.RIM had not returned a request for comment ahead of publication.An examination by the Guardian of RIM's balance sheet dating back to 2002 shows that inventories have ballooned since the launch of the PlayBook, both in value and as a proportion of revenues, where they have reached a level not seen since the company was far smaller.RIM inventory by value from Dec 2002 - August 2011. Source: RIM accountsThe growth in unsold inventory could be a serious drag on the company's financial position if it is unable to sell it profitably.RIM inventory as a percentage of revenues. Source: RIM accountsLiao said that Taiwanese contract makers manufacturing non-iPad tablets were likely to scale back production as sales of the products lagged those of Apple's iPad. He suggested that Taiwan-based Acer Inc is expected to sell between 1.5m and 2m iConia tablets this year, short of its full-year target of 2.5m.Some tablet makers have struggled even while the iPad has thrived.HP discontinued its TouchPaddevice after it had been on sale for just over a month as the company changed strategic direction and decided to withdraw from making mobile devices, including tablets and smartphones. The company is now reported to be laying off staff from its webOS division which wrote the TouchPad software; more than 500 people are affected.Even so the analystsIDC are optimistic about the prospects for tabletsthis year, forecasting that a total of 62.5m will be shipped to retailers and wholesalers.Update:RIM has confirmed that "phones in the channel do not count as inventory on the balance sheet" - which means that the rise in inventory does not include the 700,000 PlayBooks that have been shipped; instead it includes raw materials and finished goods still within RIM's control.
THQ boss Danny Bilson revealed yesterday that development of Homefront 2 will now be handled by Crytek, the creator of the Crysis series. New York-based Kaos Studios, which developed the original title, was closed in June as part of a so-called, "strategic realignment" of the publisher's internal studios. It was thought that development would continue at THQ's Montreal office, but now Crytek is in the frame.According to Eurogamer, it will be Crytek's UK studio that will be given the opportunity to continue the near-future story of an America invaded by Korean forces. The Nottingham-based codeshop sprung from the ashes of Free Radical Design, which had success with the Timesplitters series of anarchic comedy shooters – the company was bought by Crytek in 2009.Previously, there were rumours that the Crytek UK team was working on Timesplitters 4, though it seems now that Homefront has taken precedence. The original shooter, released in March, was a commercial success, though reviews were very mixed, pointing to the game's disappointingly derivative, and very short, campaign mode. Crytek UK certainly has form and experience in this genre, and will be working with CryEngine 3, the technology behind the visually stunning Crysis 2.The game is due out somewhere in the financial year between April 2013 and March 2014, and could therefore end up as a launch title on one or more forthcoming console platforms...
Just in case you missed this last week, the veteranGolden Joystickvideo game awards have racked up more than 1m public votes since August 1 – a record for the 29-year-old ceremony. There are 14 categories to vote in, from ultimate game of the year to fresh inclusions such as best downloadable title and best mobile app, and the awards ceremony takes place on 21 October.But the interesting element is the way in which voting is being guided this year. In the past, it's tended to be individual gamers making their own isolated decisions. This year, however, fan sites have been working like political parties, using social networking platforms to drum up support for their favoured titles.So far its tended to be the MMO and downloadable titles that have most benefited from this support, because – by the very nature of the games – they tend to have the most developed sense of community and "brand affiliation". According to George Walter, editorial coordinator on the awards, the community sites at Runescape, League of Legends and Minecraft have been among the most active participants. Also, fan-run pages such as teamliquid (StarCraft 2) and Guildwars2guru are busy corralling readers into the voting procedure.In the background, the games companies themselves are putting subtle weight behind the campaigns. "I think this is the first year that publishers have embraced using social media channels to motivate their fans to vote," says Walter. "That's partly due to the rise of the Facebook Fan Pages (most games now have their own pages with millions of fans) and these are evolving to become the primary way to communicate with their most loyal supporters. Long after the games themselves have been released, the Golden Joystick awards gives community managers the chance to re-engage with fans through those pages with a positive message."It all ties in with the gradual rise to importance of the video game community manager. In the era of endless downloadable updates, add-ons and extras, gamers need to be thought of, not just as one-time buyers, but as subscribers to a "game platform". Therefore keeping in constant contact with your user-base is prime concern. Somehow, the oldest video game award show on the planet has managed to evolve its way into this channel.But, of course, the real question is, which title will walk away with thatultimate game of the year. Among the 20 candidates are the likes of Portal 2, Stacraft 2, LA Noire and Black Ops – a very different list to the GameCity prize I wrote about earlier in the week, but an intriguing one for the different fanbases it intersects with. Who would you bet on?
Mark Zuckerberg must have something big up his sleeve for Thursday's f8. Facebook on Tuesday night unveiled the third – and biggest – update to the social network in 10 days, with a real-time "ticker" that youmight have read about in the Guardian on Monday.The live ticker shows what your friends are talking about right now. From Thursday, this is where you'll be able to see what your friends are listening to, reading or watching this moment.It's an unobtrusive little box in the top-right corner, meaning News Feed displays only the "Top Stories" from the last day – turning Facebook into "your own personal newspaper",saysFacebook engineer Mark Tokelowitz.Facebook ticker ... live updates now moved to the top-right corner of your homepageThe idea is that Facebook addicts (sorry, users) will be able to easily catch-up on what their friends have been doing over the past 24 hours without having to scroll through endless updates. And it ostensibly nudges Facebook away from the irresistible theory that it wants people to stay on the site for as long as possible.Here's Tokelowitz again:When you visit Facebook, you should see the things you're most interested in, like status updates from your family and closest friends. Last week, we announced improvements to Friend Lists and a new Subscribe button to help you see more of what you care about, and less of what you don't.But it's not just the people you hear from that make your News Feed interesting. It also matters how much you visit Facebook. If you haven't returned in a week, you may want to see a summary of top stories first. If you've already visited several times that day, you probably care more about recent news. Starting today, it will be easier to keep up with the people in your life no matter how frequently or infrequently you're on Facebook.Good news: if you hate the changes, switch your settings to English (UK) and – for a few hours at least – you'll have the old News Feed.But what do you think about the changes? Is this the moment where you lost control – or the feeling of being in control – of what your friends are sharing (like Twitter)?Roughly half of Facebook's 750 million active users visit the website at least once a day, according to figures it has touted around recently. How useful will a "personal newspaper" be to the 375 million people that are tuning in relatively frequently?"Lame," snarks Brandi Genest Weekson the Facebook blog. "Quite frankly I don't want Facebook deciding who is most important in my life. I want my news feed to just go chronologically and if I want to hide posts from someone, I will. Stop changing. You're becoming MySpace and I left there for a reason."Ouch. And 845 people "Liked" Brandi's comment. Almost 500 disgrunted Facebook users concurred with Fiona Robinson, who blasted: "NOOOO! I STILL want "most recent" at the top like it used to be, so we have the OPTION of seeing what has been posted most recently instead of what Facebook deems a "top story". This is total garbage."It's been two weeks since I got this "new feed" and I'm closer and closer to ditching to G+ where they ACTUALLY listen to user feedback! I've complained everywhere possible and haven't gotten a single helpful response. Geez, guys. Usability should be a main concern, and you're kind of sucking at it."My static News Feed looks pretty tired right now – the top story is a comment on my wall from nine hours ago – while the most recent "ticker" update is a pretty banal one from a friend who inexplicably just "Liked" his own photo.Once the ticker is populated with my friends' Spotify tunes, Vevo videos or Wall Street Journal stories, then I'm interested. How about you?
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle executives no longer using Google Plus &gt;&gt; Business InsiderTwenty minutes after this appeared, Sergey Brin uploaded a picture of a giraffe.VASCO Announces Bankruptcy Filing by DigiNotar B.V. &gt;&gt; Vasco.comDigiNotar was the certification authority that the Dutch government used, until it got hacked (via a malicious Flash file embedded in Excel) and a set of SSL certificates issued fraudulently. ""Although we are saddened by this action and the circumstances that necessitated it," said T. Kendall Hunt, VASCO's Chairman and CEO, "we would like to remind our customers and investors that the incident at DigiNotar has no impact on VASCO's core authentication technology."One wonders how you can say that, though.Study: patent trolls have cost innovators half a trillion dollars &gt;&gt; Ars Technica"Of course, losses to defendants are not necessarily losses to society. Patent trolls often claim they are just helping patent holders get the royalties that are owed to them. So if most of that $500bn were winding up in the pockets of inventors, perhaps the system would be working as intended."To test this hypothesis, the authors focused on 14 plaintiffs who were publicly traded companies. These firms' lawsuits accounted for $88bn of lost wealth for defendants. Yet the total revenue of these companies was only $7.6bn. This suggests that the original inventors got less than 10% of defendants' lost wealth. And the real number is likely much lower, because some of the $7.6bn came from unrelated lawsuits, and we're willing to bet the patent lawyers took a big cut."Software patents accounted for about 62% of the lawsuits. Quite where the $80bn-odd went is extremely puzzling.UK Central Government and Local Authority Public Spending 2012 - ukpublicspending.co.ukVery nice, although it would be good to be able to drill down to more details such as suppliers. That really would be impressive. And it goes back to 1700. (That's not 5pm.)Full Tilt Poker accused of running 'massive Ponzi scheme' &gt;&gt; guardian.co.uk"Federal prosecutors have accused two top poker players and troubled gambling site Full Tilt Poker of running 'a massive Ponzi scheme' that defrauded players out of $440m."Manhattan attorney Preet Bharara filed legal papers on Tuesday accusing Full Tilt Poker of improperly using funds from its online poker players to pay members of its board of directors, including professional poker players Howard Lederer and Christopher 'Jesus' Ferguson."'Full Tilt was not a legitimate poker company, but a global Ponzi scheme,' Bharara said in a statement."Ping! That's the microwave finishing off the popcorn.Windows Phone manager who tweeted inside info about Nokia device is out at Microsoft &gt;&gt;q GeekWire"A Windows Phone principal program manager has left the company two weeks after making headlines for tweeting his impressions of an unreleased Nokia phone running the Microsoft mobile operating system."A Microsoft spokeswoman confirmed this morning that Joe Marini, principal program manager for the Windows Phone web platform, no longer works for the company, but declined to provide further details, citing a policy against discussing personnel matters."But the back story, as we understand it from people inside the company, is that Marini resigned after learning that he would be let go for improper use of social media and disclosure of confidential information."Probably the worst part is that he only rated it an 8 out of 10. Where's the solidarity, huh?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
'Tis Wednesday. Come, let us talk about games and gaming matters.
A multimillion-dollar deal agreed between Facebook and drinks company Diageo will fuel the under-age drinking epidemic by exposing increasing numbers of young people to alcohol marketing, health experts are warning.Advertising to the predominantly young people who use Facebook has been hugely profitable for Diageo, which makes the drink of choice for most teenagers who can obtain it – Smirnoff vodka.Announcing the deal, Diageo said Smirnoff had become "the number one beverage alcohol brand on Facebook worldwide". Its brands in the US had enjoyed a 20% increase in sales "as a result of Facebook activity". The deal will, said Diageo, "drive unprecedented levels of integration and joint business planning, and experimentation between the two companies".Diageo said that more than 950 of its marketers had been trained in "Facebook boot camps" to build their social media capabilities and the company was recording "significant returns on investment" across a number of its brands.But health experts and alcohol campaigners say the impact will be felt in teenage drinking. Dr Nick Sheron, a liver specialist at Southampton hospital, is one of those who believes the attraction of Facebook is the youth of its users, with half under the age of 24 and many under the legal drinking age of 18.Facebook argues that pages set up by alcohol advertisers are "age-gated", and therefore only accessible to those who are over 18. But Sheron argues that many younger people do not disclose their true age on Facebook."The age verification process for social networking sites is clearly completely ineffective – even though users are supposed to be 13 or above, it has been suggested that one-quarter of UK children aged 8-12 have a Facebook or similar account," he said."Secondly, the majority of these accounts are hidden from parents, so Diageo effectively has a private narrowcast channel of communication with young people, which it will use to promote alcohol use as a positive lifestyle."There are also concerns about viral marketing through social media, as short film advertisements with an entertaining storyline designed to appeal to a young audience are circulated between friends through sites such as Facebook, bypassing any age controls on commercial pages. Fan clubs for drink brands are set up apparently by consumers, and teenagers post pictures of themselves and their friends getting drunk.Linda Bauld, professor of social management at Stirling University, said: "I think the primary problem is that there are no legislative restrictions on alcohol marketing at the moment, but we know that the industry has carefully and consistently marketed the product to young people. Many children use Facebook sites. By doing a deal between a multinational corporation that produces alcohol and a networking site, you are essentially marketing alcohol to children. We know from our research that it is one of the most effective ways to get to children."Gerard Hastings, director of the Institute for Social Marketing and the Centre for Tobacco Control Research at Stirling University, who gave evidence to the health select committee on alcohol marketing to children, said: "I think what unnerves me most is the insidious nature of social networking being used for marketing purposes. Facebook is supposed to be about genuine friendship and real relationships, not commerce."In a sense there is nothing new here – brands were established in the first place to give the inhuman corporation a faux-human face; relationship marketing, the key business development of recent decades, is all about gaining long-term commitment from customers. Malcolm Gladwell, among others, has described the use of flesh-and-blood brand ambassadors to win loyalty. The difference here is the scale and power of Facebook as both a research (Google algorithms are truly scary) and marketing tool."Facebook said it was very hard to control the age group who access any internet site, but insisted that it does all it can.  "At Facebook we have a clear policy – if you want to use the site, you should be at least 13 years old," said a spokesperson."We care a lot about people, young and old, and we know that the people who use Facebook will enjoy it more – and carry on enjoying it – if they learn more about using the internet in the safest possible way. We're keen to ensure Facebook is one of the safest places on the internet for users of all ages which is why we've already been working hard alongside industry experts such as Childnet to put in place features like our safety centre.""It shouldn't be forgotten that making sure services are age-appropriate isn't an issue that is confined to Facebook – teens and young people use the wider internet every day, often accessing websites and online services that offer few or no safety tools. We feel that the best solution to using services in an age-appropriate way is for service providers like Facebook to carry on working with parents, safety experts and kids themselves to aid education and understanding."Diageo said it was working within the rules. "Our collaboration with Facebook is subject to our internal global marketing code which mandates that we must comply with all applicable laws, regulations and industry codes, such as the codes for responsible marketing of the Portman Group, Ofcom and the ASA [Advertising Standards Authority]," it said."We are 100% committed to responsible advertising and promotion of our brands and also believe that social marketing can play an important role in promoting responsible drinking through initiatives such asNightlife Confessionsin western Europe andDrinkaware's Why Let Good Times Go Bad. To ensure we only market our products to persons over the legal purchase age online, we currently leverage and continue to identify all available technologies to prevent underage interaction with our official digital marketing assets."
You'll recall that I didn't think that much of Research In Motion's (Rim) PlayBook - its 7in, Flash-enabled tablet - whenI reviewed itin June. Very limited app store, not a great experience to use. The market seems to have agreed, given that the numbers shipped in its second quarter were miles down on the first - from 500,000 to 200,000.But here's the problem that the PlayBook poses for Rim: it can't kill it, because that would mean killing the only outpost it presently has for which developers can code for QNX, the OS that is going to be the basis for its new phones from next year.Mike Abramsky of RBC Capital Markets on Tuesday issued a biting research note on the company, saying that its shares carry "above average risk" although it does think it will perform as well as the rest of the technology sector.He outlines three scenarios for the company over the next year or so, including a "bearish" one in which it simply doesn't manage to make the transition cleanly, kills the PlayBook, sees shipments of handsets fall, and generally gets crunched. His "base case" (expected) scenario still sees Apple winning the high end in the valuable US market, and Android chewing up the commodity market in the middle. A "bullish" scenario sees everything turning up roses, with wonderful tablets and smartphones in 2012 - yet even there, Abramsky is only forecasting 1.9m PlayBooks to be shipped in the next financial year. (Then again, the base case is for 1m to be shipped in that period.)More generally, he warns that the company could face a cash crunch as it tries to execute its transition to QNX: in the second quarter, its available cash halved to $1.4bn, the lowest level in more than four years, despite revenues being more than four times larger than in 2007. Part of that was down to thepurchase of patents with Apple and Microsoft. But that cash pile is going to hear a big sucking sound in the near future - and it comes from the PlayBook.Looking generally at the company, "We don't see valuation [of the shares] improving until Rim addresses four key issues," Abramsky wrote. Those included "backwards-looking, uncompetitive products and software", "[poor] marketing and launch execution", "investor credibility' (because of its repeated missed targets on revenues and profits) and "governance" - the complaints from stockholders that the Rim board needs to oversee what the co-CEOs, Jim Balsillie and Mike Lazaridis, are doing more closely.The only problem with the last, as someone else pointed out to me, is that Balsillie and Lazaridis are the co-founders and own 10% of the shares. It's not too likely that they're going to get slung out.Abramsky says they don't have much time to get things right: "competitors are bringing their 'A' game, and Rim can't afford to launch products perceived as half-finished or uncompetitive by the market," he comments. Getting the Android emulation software for the PlayBook to work properly (so it can run apps from that much larger market) becomes important.The interesting point there is that the BB7 phones launched recentlyweredelayed so that Rim could get them right, whereas the PlayBook was hurried out to meet no particular deadline that anyone could perceive. It was launched without inbuilt email or calendaring (but with Flash!- so now you know precisely how much of a must-have featurethatis) in a form factor (7in screen) that hadn't been proven in the market at the time. The PlayBook looks like Rim's attempt to catch Apple in tablets, just as the 2008 BlackBerry Storm was to catch the iPhone (though in the latter case, it was Vodafone which told Rim, and particularly Lazaridis, that the company needed to develop a touchscreen phone; Rim wasn't going to do it off its own bat. And, arguably,shouldn't have.)But Rim is stuck with the PlayBook. Really stuck. It needs a QNX product for developers to aim at. But the cost of shifting whatever proportion of those 700,000-odd PlayBooks remain unsold out of the "channel" - wholesalers and retailers - is going to cost it dear over the next two quarters at least, as it revealed in its earnings call with analysts last week. (Thetranscript of the Q2 earnings call with Rim over at SeekingAlphamakes for fascinating reading.)Rim wouldn't give an average selling price (ASP) for the PlayBook. But Brian Bidulka, Rim's chief financial officer, admitted: "current PlayBook sell-through is lower than we have forecasted. Additionally, Rim made a strategic investment in certain high-value components related to PlayBook that were in tight supply at the time of the commitment. This has resulted in normal -higherthan normal levels of inventory on the balance sheet. In addition to the inventory on Rim's balance sheet, there is inventory in the channel that we'll work through with our partners to sell-through over the coming months."Now, what does this mean?• A reasonable guess is that the "high-value components" are the touch screens needed for the PlayBook• they were in constrained supply because of the Japanese earthquake.• "sell-through is lower than we have forecasted" means "PlayBooks haven't sold, and they're sitting in wholesalers' and retailers' stockrooms".That's what the "inventory in the channel" is too. It all adds up to price cuts on PlayBooks in the coming months to try to get them to shift, and get the touchscreens off Rim's balance sheet (as inventory is just money sitting there doing nothing useful; Tim Cook of Apple thinks of it as being like milk - prone to go off if you don't get it consumed).The problem for Rim is that wholesalers are refusing to take the drop, and are obliging Rim to stump up the cash to pay for discounts to shift the PlayBooks.Co-CEO Mike Lazaridis realises things are bad in the PlayBook App Store: "We recognize that the current availability of content and applications for PlayBook has limited the near-term uptake of the device in the market, and we are actively working with key partners to deliver the most desired applications and content to our targeted market segments."Translation: we're pleading with people to port their apps to QNX. What you can conclude: the PlayBook can't be killed until there are QNX BlackBerrys."Rather than easing these enhancements out little by little into the market, we are planning to bundle a number of significant features and enhancements into a new major software release for PlayBook that will be demonstrated at DevCon in October and released thereafter. The ability to push out upgrades over theyearairto PlayBook is a significant advantage, and both existing and new PlayBook users will be able to benefit from this new software release when it is available."Surely everyone pushes out upgrades over the year.(Update:apologies to Lazaridis: the transcript was incorrect. He said the updates will be pushed out over theair. Thanks Francisco Jeronimo of IDC for pointing this out.)And what's coming in "PlayBook 2.0"? Well, says Lazaridis, "built-in native email, calendar and contacts; robust enterprise features, including BlackBerry Balance to allow management of personal liable devices; the previously announced Android app player; enhanced web browsing; the availability of new consumer apps and social - [corrects himself] the availability of new consumer apps and multimedia and video content, including BlackBerry video store, which will have 10,000 movies and TV shows available on demand to buy or rent as well as new movie releases on the same day as DVD availability; and of course, with the built-in HDMI output, the ability to enjoy videos on your TV without the need to purchase additional system components".Yes, everyone is watching video on their TV using an HDMI cable attached to their PlayBook, because nobody owns Blu-ray or indeed upscaling DVD players any more, and much prefer to rip the DVDs and store them on their 16GB tablets. Something like that. (The real use case is obvious: playing hi-definition video in company boardrooms. Quite why Lazaridis can't say this, I don't know.)However, the promotion to push those pesky PlayBooks out of the channel is going to keep hurting Rim's numbers for the rest of this year and beyond, admits Edel Ebbs in thequestion-and-answer session: "In terms of the impact on gross margin from the PlayBook activity that we're going to be undertaking over the next few months, it's going to be more than one quarter impact."In other words, at least two quarters. Six more months of financial hurt.Meanwhile, Nokia is prepping itself to launch the first of its Windows Phone devices. (Did I say back in February thatthey wouldn't be ready before October? Yes, I did.) However, it's only going to be able to ramp up output over the next two or three quarters, which are going to be crucial to its future. Windows Phone really matters for Nokia. If it can't make it work, it's toast. Rather like Rim and QNX.That means that for the next two months Rim and Nokia are going to be wrestling each other for business, offering new software platforms that they're trying to get off the ground, while relying on their huge base of subscribers around the world to stick with them. And both are strong in many of the same countries and regions. (Rim's principal advantage over Nokia is its strength in the US.)And they're converging in terms of their position in the smartphone market. A year ago, Nokia was selling around 24m smartphones per quarter; Rim, 12m. In the most recent reported quarters, Rim sold 13.7m phones (though it shipped 10.3m; the remaining 3.4m were lurking in the channel from earlier). Nokia sold 16.7m phones. The two of them are closer together than they might seem at first glance.Rim against Nokia in the battle of the platform shifts? Amateur hour is over, indeed. It's going to be a titanic 2012.
Aleks Krotoski and Charles Arthur joined in the Tech Weekly studio by salesforce.com's chief scientist JP Ragaswami, a technologist who's been working in and thinking about the industry for more than 30 years. The trio tackle the latest news: Microsoft's announcement of its next-generation operating system, Windows 8; Rim's declining figures; and the "Beyond the Screen" scheme spearheaded by schools and universities minister David Willetts, hoping to inspire the next generation of people with programming skills.JP talks about the social shifts in the workplace, and what we can expect from a post-scarcity world.All this and more on Tech Weekly from the Guardian.
Google has opened its ambitious social networking site Google+ to the public, having attracted more than 20 million users for aits 12-week invitation-only trial.Thepublic launchmarks a significant moment in the search giant's challenge to Facebook, which has almost 800 million active users around the world, and the messaging service Twitter, which has more than 100 million members.Unlike Facebook, where you have to be a "friend" with a counterpart, or Twitter, where "followers" and even unregistered visitors to Twitter's website can typically see anything that someone tweets, Google+ uses "circles", where a posting cannot be shared more widely than its creator wants. At its broadest, that can be completely public – but it can also be a circle only of one person, or just family or close friends.Google+ also breaks with the brevity of Twitter, allowing users to post messages of unlimited length to any number of friends.More than 1bn items have been shared on the new social network since its launch, said Vic Gundotra, Google's senior vice-president of engineering, in a post on Google's official website on Tuesday. He announced nine new features for the fledgling site, including the ability for users to video chat using Google+ on compatible mobile phones. Users will also be able to record and broadcast video chats for friends to watch, and complete tasks with friends, he said.Google also introduced a search feature for the site.The search engine giant's latest major social networking project got an underwhelming response from critics on its launch on 29 June, but the service quickly attracted millions of users,according to calculations. Google has tried to build worldwide social networks before, with Orkut – which succeeded in Brazil and India, but flopped elsewhere – and with Buzz, which used people's email accounts to construct a "social network" on the fly. However privacy flaws in Buzz, which attracted a barrage of complaints from users whose contacts were inadvertently exposed on the site, led to an investigation by the US Federal Trade Commission, in turn leading to a20-year oversight rulingon Google and the privacy of its products.Chief executive Larry Page indicated big ambitions for Google Plus when discussing the company's financial results in July. "Our goal at Google+ is to make sharing on the web like sharing in real life, as well as improve the overall Google experience," he said. "Circles lets you choose with precision who you're sharing with; not surprisingly this has been very well received, because in real life, we share different things with different people. Hangouts allows for serendipitous interactions – like in real life, when you run into a few friends. It gives you seamless and fun multiuser video, and it's really amazing."Gundotra said in June that Google+, which took more than a year to develop, is the answer to flaws in existing social networks, which hedescribedas "sloppy", "scary" and "insensitive". Buzz was launched in February 2010."For the past 12 weeks we've been in field trial, and during that time we've listened and learned a great deal," Gundotra said. "We're nowhere near done, but with the improvements we've made so far we're ready to move from field trial to beta, and introduce our 100th feature: open signups. This way anyone can visit google.com/+, join the project and connect with the people they care about."
I'd suspect that when given the opportunity we all can appreciate what a skilled individual can do in any human endeavour, whether that's from restoring an old building, to preparing a fabulous meal or even a decent bit of graphic design. We're all capable of being creative and artistic, even if what we do isn't usually labelled as art.It is said from time to time that software development is an "art". I personally have never really held this view – I think software development is primarily an engineering enterprise that doesn't necessarily have much to do with the sort of ineffable mystery that goes into something being "artistic".Software development is about building machines that don't have an obviously direct relationship with physics, unlike machines such as cars or structures (say, bridges) where physics has more of a say. I'd even suggest that as a profession we could do with a bit centralised education, structure and – dare I say it –controlthat older engineering traditions have. I don't, and never have, thought of myself as an artist, and raise my eyebrow when regarding any software developer that does.Art is about creating an emotional response, and I would argue – in a purely amateur fashion, I'm a professional software developer, not a philosopher or artist – that without that emotional response, software can never really be art. And software itself typically doesn't create an emotional response. Software is a gateway to things that do – whether it's your friends on Facebook, the current state of the FTSE or a webcam of home. It's the content that makes you feel good or not, not the particular arrangement of machine code that delivers it to you.Yet it struck me the other day: I found myself thinking about Kindle as being beautiful. One fine day in August I did have an emotional response to a piece of software itself, rather than what it delivered to me. That moment made me think of the developers of Kindle (note: the software, not the hardware) as artists in a way that was entirely unique during my experience of being a software developer. And, now, I wonder if I could convince you to feel the same way."Buying a fax? You realise it comes with a licence?"Who amongst you would consider eBay, Facebook and Twitter or any one of a number of seriously big Web sites beautiful? I suspect few of you would, but I suspect most developers could also look at those sites and appreciate and respect the engineering that went into them. Twitter, for example, simply does my head in. I think of the world as basic relational databases, and the sheer throughput and size of Twitter (a billion tweets per week! Maximum nearly 9,000 tweets per second!) is just not comprehensible. Facebook strikes me as just a big database – OK, so there's some clever bits, but there's no beauty there. It's probably just great infrastructure and a number of well-placed optimisations.The reason why I've specifically cited eBay, Facebook and Twitter is that they're all examples of the network effect. People love using those sites not because of what they are, but because they plug you in to something that's important to you. This is the same argument that when you buy a fax machine you're not buying a machine that "does faxing", you're buying a license into a network that allows faxes to be sent and received. Facebook lets people connect with people they know. Twitter lets people connect with people they don't know. eBay lets people reach out to a marketplace of people who want their wares, or are joining them in the enjoyment of a collecting hobby. It's the networks that are important. In these three particular examples the technology gets out of the way and allows the content to shine through.Kindle: it's not about the networkI've been using the word Kindle throughout this article without defining it. For my argument, I'm not talking about the devices that Amazon manufacture and sell. What I'm talking about is thesystemsthat Amazon has put into place that has made the idea of ebooks work.I remember buying an ebook system in 1999 when I was doing a lot of travelling. It was about the size and weight of a paperback, with a decent screen and battery life. The problem was the content: it was  really difficult to get books for it. In the end I gave up and reverted to paper. That device failed in the market in exactly the way that Kindle hasn't.What Kindle has managed to do over the time that it's been around has been to use Amazon's sway with the publishers to actually get the content generated. Technically, this is a pretty easy process, as publishers all operate electronically both in terms of content and catalogue data and so closing that loop was relatively trivial for them. (To that end, we should all be paying close attention to what happens with the"Kindle on Android" device that's coming this yearas we should expect similar disruption in the app market.)I'm not sure how much by ebook reader cost in 1999, but I'm pretty sure it was more than Amazon's current price for a Kindle. And in terms of the hardware, I know that people rave about it but personally I don't like it. I find it much easier to read on my iPad. But no matter – the market has proven that Kindle is a success.For me, Kindle is not the device – that's just one bit that happens to be called "Kindle". If we were to try and build Kindle from scratch, we'd need a bunch of pieces. At the very least we'd need a customer database, payment processing, book catalogue, download capabilities and device software for PC, Mac, Android and iOS. If we're going for a hardware play as well, we'd need to find some decent engineers as well. I draw your attention to a bullet on Amazon's product page that reads "quieter page turning means you won't disturb your partner if you read all night". That'sApple-styleengineering right there. All of these things are easy enough to do with enough time, money and talent, but it still doesn't add up to something that's "beautiful". So what happened to me when I was struck by Kindle's beauty?The beauty of KindleI had been reading a book by David Sedaris on my iPad. I'm a huge fan of his (and I'd recommend him to anyone) but there's no real significance in what I was reading on my iPad. I'd had a rough day at work, I was away from home travelling and I found a restaurant to have some dinner in. But I'd left my iPad back at the hotel.I really wanted to switch off and unwind, and in a busy restaurant I needed a distraction. So I took out my iPhone, looked at it, thought to myself that Kindle would be rubbish on a display that small, and put it back in my pocket. Just 30 seconds later, struck by how noisy this restaurant was, I pulled out my phone, downloaded the Kindle app and signed in to the Amazon Kindle store. I clicked on the book I had been reading back in the hotel and within a minute or so it was downloaded (no repurchase!) and was at the page that I'd left the iPad on back at the hotel. It knew which page - I didn't.And for me, at that moment, I wished that my career path had taken me to work on that system, and I had a sense that I would give it all up and be happyif all I'd ever done in my career had been that project. It was a moment's appreciation for the small and obvious details; for what is in many ways the root basic-ness of that system that just make the application work for me in that moment. That, to me at least, was what made it beautiful.ConclusionThe intend here isn't to gush about how wonderful I found a particular product (Kindle in this case). Kindle is perhaps the finest example that we have today which we, as professional software developers, can strive to achieve. It's a basic idea, executed with fabulous finesse but with no fuss and no over-engineering. It's the Patek Phillippe watch amongst a mountain of gaudy baubles.For I was reading the book that was on the iPad in my hotel on my phone in a restaurant and I'd never had to turn a page. Sometimes the beauty lies in what youdon'tmake the user do.•Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer and author based in the UK. His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit.
Music is one of the more popular app genres on smartphones and tablets, but in the last year the emphasis of these apps has shifted from pure consumption to discovery. There are now lots of apps for iPhone and iPad particularly that aim to help people discover new bands, usually based on the ones they already like.Band Of The Daytakes a slightly different skew on discovery, with a more curatorial role as the developer behind it, 955 Dreams, chooses a single artist every day to recommend. The app was hinted at in ourlast interviewwith CEO Kiran Bellubbi."It's the first music magazine that isn't trapped in some kind of 30-day legacy print cycle," says Bellubi. "People are not consuming information that way any more: they don't wait 30 days for anything, and especially not for news content or music."Bellubbi and his colleagues were unimpressed, he says, at the iOS apps launched by music magazines like Spin, saying that they revealed a gap between the "print cycle and design" attitudes of those publishers, and modern-day smartphone and tablet users. Hence, Band Of The Day is a music magazine that looks more like..."It's basically a calendar," says Bellubbi. "A touch-sensitive, browseable calendar where every day you have a new band. And when you tap through to one of those artists, a neat little menu appears with a review, biography, videos and, of course, the music."Band Of The Day is certainly an elegant app, complete with an embedded music player that slides down from the top of the screen to reveal playable (full-length) tracks from the featured artists, as well as a button to flip it to a digital mixtape of tracks from many of them.Given the ease with which apps can scrape content from the web these days, it's a surprise to learn that the editorial in Band Of The Day is being entirely written in-house."When we started working on this, we talked to a few music bloggers, and realised we need to do this ourselves," says Bellubbi. "The DNA of this company is based around music, so these are the conversations we have all day, about artists that we like. Writing about them is fun, and showcasing their albums in a beautiful way is fun. We even interview them ourselves."One of the most interesting things about Band Of The Day – but also potentially one of its biggest challenges – is the fact that it's a paid, subscription-based service. It costs £0.69 a month or £6.99 a year to subscribe to the app and keep receiving the daily recommendation."The definition of a product is if somebody wants to pay for it," says Bellubbi. "If we want to be the next great direct-to-consumer company, the next great product company, we have to charge for our product. And you're getting beautiful photographs of the band, free music, and the discovery."The challenge will be on getting lots of people to agree, especially as this kind of content is available for free online - and by extension through the browsers on the iPhones of the people Bellubbi is hoping will become his paying customers. The key competition will be Pitchfork's website but also the apps from aggregators RCRD LBL and Hype Machine.The answer to the question of whether Band Of The Day is worth £0.69 a month is not the effort that goes into it or the quality of its content, but whether people perceive that as worth paying for.The length of the free trial may be crucial, although if the paid strategy doesn't pay off and 955 Dreams is forced to find a Plan B, there may be no shortage of brands willing to sponsor Band Of The Day.The other reason Band Of The Day needs to make money, of course, is to pay for that streaming music. Bellubbi is cautious about discussing the kinds of deals 955 Dreams needs to do with labels and publishers to run the app. The company has been talking to both camps and striking deals.For now, it will remain one artist a day, with no genre-fuelled fragmentation plans on the horizon. "We're definitely at this stage not looking to make one app for hip-hop, one for country, one for rock and so on," says Bellubbi."One app, and one band a day. We don't want to put people in a box and just serve up what they already know and like. It's the same reason we didn't put a search function in the History of Jazz app. I am opposed to building it! If we give that function to people, they will search for Louis Armstrong, Billie Holliday, Frank Sinatra and that's it. But this is not discovery."Band Of The Day is live now, battling on the App Store with dozens of other music discovery apps, with different features and pricing models. Bellubbi hopes that quality will give it a foothold."We think there are hundreds of thousands of people out there who will want this," he says. "For people who have busy lives, but have these iOS devices, this is perfect: listen to music, and then buy it if they like it. We want millions of people to try it."
The event started earlier in the day with an animatronic "Locust" trooper peering out from a cage in Marble Arch – no doubt to the confusion of shoppers unfamiliar with the terrifying alien enemies from Microsoft's sci-fi shooter series, Gears of War. But the culmination was, of course, the 12.01am launch of the third and "final" chapter in the gaming phenomenon, with hero Marcus Fenix looking to save the last scraps of humanity from annihilation.Hundreds queued outside Game's flagship store on Oxford Street in London on Monday night to secure a copy of the Xbox 360 title, with 400 other stores open throughout the UK. Microsoft reckons more than 20,000 shops worldwide simultaneously prepared to distribute galactic war to excited customers, with 1.3m copies of the game already secured via pre-order."Gears is an incredibly successful franchise for us, from both a software and platform perspective," said Stephen McGill, Microsoft's UK director of Xbox and entertainment. "Back in 2006, when Gears of War first launched, it defined what a high definition blockbusting game should be, and both Gears 2 and 3 have built upon this success. Gears fans are one of the most passionate communities in the world and represent an audience that has been – and still is – hugely critical for us. Gears of War will be the biggest console exclusive of the year."Gears of War follows a desperate band of human soldiers whose colony planet of Sera is suddenly overrun by subterranean monsters known as the Locust. The series, which has sold more than 13m copies to date, is vital to Microsoft's Xbox platform as it is exclusive to the console, and unavailable on rival machines such as the PlayStation 3 and Wii (although PC conversions of previous Gears titles have been released).Its success has inspired a range of novels, comics and even replica armour and guns. A movie adaptation is also being planned.Monday night's launch will kick off what looks to be a busy two months for the global games industry. Military shooter rivals Battlefield 3 and Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 are set to dominate the winter, but they will be joined by epic role-playing game Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim, football sim, Fifa 12 and historical adventure Assassin's Creed: Revelations – all due out before Christmas.But is this really the end of the massively successful Gears franchise? Of course not. Speaking to the Guardian, McGill was careful to point out that Gears 3 "provides a conclusion to thecurrenttrilogy". It is thought developer Epic Games is already preparing a follow-up series with a new cast of characters continuing the unending – and profitable – battle for humanity's survival.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRun, Python, Run! &gt;&gt; Harder, Better, Faster, Stronger"I still can't figure out exactly which operations are expensive in Python. My C/C++ can't help me much because it seems that things aren't implemented like I'd've expected--like lists that aren't lists, but array lists, leading to  for operations you would otherwise expect to be ."But a friend of mine--Olivier--showed me a simple, basic, yet rather effective tool to profile Python programs (I'm not sure if I should say script or not)."The tool, RunSnakeRun, inserts hooks in the Python interpreter to build a report of where time is spent, a bit à la Valgrind/Kcachegrind but much simpler, and to display the results using both tables and a rectangular tree-structured inclusion graph (a "SquareMap")."Neat.Gang used 3D printers for ATM skimmers &gt;&gt; Krebs on Security"The skimmer components typically include a card skimmer that fits over the card acceptance slot and steals the data stored on the card's magnetic stripe, and a pinhole camera built into a false panel that thieves can fit above or beside the PIN pad. If these components don't match just-so, they're more likely to be discovered and removed by customers or bank personnel, leaving the thieves without their stolen card data."Enter the 3D printer. This fascinating technology, explained succinctly in the video below from 3D printing company i.materialise, takes two dimensional computer images and builds them into three dimensional models by laying down successive layers of powder that are heated, shaped and hardened."This has the potential to turn into something bad. Well, it already has.How Twitters's trends work, explained in a tweet &gt;&gt; Dick CostoloDock Costolo, CEO of Twitter, explains. Sub-140 characters.Why Netflix is splitting itself in two &gt;&gt; The OatmealUnusual for The Oatmeal to do something newsy - and on the day? He must really have liked Netflix. Once upon a time.Do users change their settings? &gt;&gt; UIE Brain SparksWord used to ship with Autosave. But you had to enable it. And people didn't (because people don't change defaults, and they thought Microsoft had disabled it for a well-considered reason). But why was it disabled?"It turns out the reason the feature was disabled in that release was not because they had thought about the user's needs. Instead, it was because a programmer had made a decision to initialize the config.ini file with all zeroes. Making a file filled with zeroes is a quick little program, so that's what he wrote, assuming that, at some point later, someone would tell him what the "real defaults" should be. Nobody ever got around to telling him."Since zero in binary means off, the autosave setting, along with a lot of other settings, were automatically disabled. The users' assumption that Microsoft had given this careful consideration turned out not to be the case."Fake Antivirus malware accounts for 58% of malware activity in August 2011 &gt;&gt; ITVar News"Fortinet, a leading network security provider and the worldwide leader of unified threat management (UTM) solutions - released its latest Threat Landscape, report, which reveals the fake antivirus loader W32/FraudLoad.OR accounted for 58 percent of the new malware activity tracked in August."Traditionally, FraudLoad installs fake antivirus utilities on an unsuspecting user's system, but in our labs, we found that it is all too common for botnet loaders to download additional malware such as spam bots," said Derek Manky, Senior Security strategist at Fortinet."Right behind FraudLoad, a newly discovered Zeus botnet variant was the second most active malware this period."Mac malware: not found.The iPad is Hot in Small Business &gt;&gt; TechPinions"I have a hunch, which would be hard to quantify, that a significant portion of iPad sales are being put to use in small business in some way shape or form."I have talked to restaurant owners using them to take orders and send automatically back the kitchen. I have talked to financial advice firms using them for notes, organization, and to walk clients through data. We have talked to consultancies, legal firms, small boutique shop owners, automobile dealerships, photographers and a host of other types of small businesses and nearly all of them are finding creative ways to integrate the iPad into their business."Interestingly so far in our study over 85% of small business owners we surveyed are either using the iPad in some way or plan to purchase and use one within the next year."Note however that this is after talking to "more than two dozen small businesses". A broader survey might be nice. Notable: helped some win against businesses that didn't use iPads. (Android? Too few apps.)Nokia World includes lots of Microsoft speakers, Nokia Windows Phone imminent &gt;&gt; WinRumors"Microsoft's huge presence at the event indicates a significant announcement. Nokia is expected to unveil its first Windows Phone device at Nokia World and Microsoft appears to be waiting in the wings with its best personnel to ensure Nokia's audience is well informed of the Windows Phone benefits."That's going to make it a very different atmosphere from last year's Nokia World, where the company had just ejected its chief executive and was busy seeing members of the board hit ejector seats.Oh, and who mentioned that the first Windows Phones wouldn't appear from Nokia until October? We did.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
So, were you out at midnight last night buying Gears of War 3? Tell us all about it.
Google has launched its mobile payments technology,Google Wallet, making it available to the public via an application which can be downloaded from a United States mobile phone network.Google Wallet is vying to replace credit cards with phones containing a special chip with Near Field Communications (NFC) technology, which can be tapped against readers at cash tills in shops to make payments.The technology has been on trial in New York and San Francisco since May with around 1000 employees of Google and its partners in the venture, including MasterCard and Macy's department store.Any customers of the Sprint network with a Nexus S phone, which runs on Google's Android operating system, will now be able to download the application so that they can use their phones to make payments. Customers will have to sign up for a Citi MasterCard account or get a Google Prepaid Card.Google has also announced that it is working with Visa, American Express and Discover cards to make them available on future versions of Google Wallet.Osama Bedier, vice president of Google payments,announced the launch on the Google blog. He said: "Our goal is to make it possible for you to add all of your payment cards to Google Wallet, so you can say goodbye to even the biggest traditional wallets. This is still just the beginning, and while we're excited about this first step, we look forward to bringing Google Wallet to more phones in the future."The service will be marketed in the United States only, although the pre-paid card will work internationally at launch. The company is working towards a European launch in 2012, and hoping the UK will be its first location outside America.The technology can be used at any of the 300,000 shops and other outlets in the US and internationally that accept MasterCard PayPass. Transactions require a PIN and that the phone's screen is turned on, so payments cannot be taken covertly. Google can also disable the Wallet function remotely.Most cabs in New York have readers, as do Bloomingdales department store, McDonalds, 7-Eleven, Best Buy, Foot Locker, BP, and in the UK Tesco, Boots and Burker King have signed up.Google will initially focus its marketing and sales efforts on New York and San Francisco, where it would be working with shops to implement its 'SingleTap' process. This lets customers redeem vouchers, loyalty card points and make payments with a single tap of the phone.Google's next Nexus phone, expected later this year, will also feature the chips needed to run the Wallet.Bedier joined Google in January 2011 after eight years at the eBay-owned online payments company PayPal – which is suing Google, claiming he took its secrets with him. It is promising demonstrations of its own product at a trade show in October.Google said at the time: "We respect trade secrets and will defend ourselves against these claims."The service is being promoted on YouTube via avideofeaturing Seinfeld character George Costanza, who poses as its first customer.  The character, played by Jason Alexander, was known for his giant wallet, which he famously stuffed with coupons, phone numbers, receipts and notes until one day it exploded.
Facebook will on Thursday unveil a real-time stream of what its users are watching and listening to online, turning the social network into a key entertainment destination on the web.The social network will introduce the new "ticker" stream alongside partnerships with major media companies at itsf8 conference in San Francisco.Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg will unveil the changes as part of a "read, watch and listen" theme at the conference on 22 September.Zuckerberg is also expected to introduce changes to the"Like" button, allowing developers to create their own verbs such as "Want", "Desire" or "Need".Earlysuggestionsindicate that music will be central to Facebook's announcements, with Spotify and the video site Vevo believed to be introducing apps that will allow listeners to stream songs without leaving the site.Film and TV streaming sites, as well as some newspapers, are also expected to unveil new Facebook products at the conference.The announcements form part ofZuckerberg's vision of building a "social web"where users interact around all websites, online films and music. It builds on the introduction of theseveral tools for sites at last year's f8, which Facebook claims has driven a fourfold increase in traffic from the social network to media sites.Facebook's 750 million users will be able to automatically share activity such as viewing, listening and reading in the live "ticker" stream, once they have opted in to the feature. The new stream will be separate from the existing Facebook news feed, although popular items – such as the most frequently played songs among friends – will appear in the column.The world's most popular social network has stepped up its offering in the past year – adding 250,000 new active users – in the wake of increased competition from Facebook and a new rival in Google+.Facebook last week unveiled two changes to the way its users interact on the site, a moveseen as a direct response to Google+ and Twitter. Andrew Bosworth, director of engineering at Facebook,told the Guardianon Friday that the changes predate the launch of Google+, but said that the social network – now valued at $65bn on venture capital funding – "constantly feel like we're moving too slowly".While Facebook is keen for its users to stay on the site for as long as possible, Zuckerberg has consistently emphasised that the site is a "distribution platform" to other media companies.According to Facebook's own referral figures, the Independent's website has seen a 680% rise in traffic from Facebook over the past year. Britain's biggest newspaper website, MailOnline, saw referrals from Facebook increase sixfold when it introduced the "Like" button across its website.Facebook had not returned a request for comment at time of publication.
The show's over, the cos-players have slumped home and the elaborate stands have been dismantled. The Tokyo Game Show may have lacked the sheer size and import of E3, but it had bags of charm, some fascinating games and enough desirable tie-in merchandise to bankrupt an army of otaku.Following Keith's day one and day two reports, here are some of the titles I grappled with during a hectic 48 hours on the show floor.Kinect Sports 2(Rare/Microsoft Game Studio)Strangely enough, the first demo I found myself wandering into was for a British-made game aimed squarely at improving Microsoft's position in the Western casual games market. At E3 we were shown Golf and American Football and at Gamescom it was all about the Darts and Tennis. In Tokyo, Skiing and Baseball were on the cards.As with most party games, Kinect Sports 2 really seems to improve if more people join in, so luckily I found myself competing against a fellow games journalist in the Skiing game. The pair of us had to crouch down to speed up our avatars' progress down the slope and lean side-to-side to move right and left. By the end we felt suitably stupid and had to watch the embarrassing video Kinect Sports 2 had made of us. We then sat back and watched a couple of the developers play a round of Baseball, using the sort of actions you'd use if you were miming the sport.Rare also unveiled a new feature that allows you to send messages to your Xbox Live friends, challenging them to beat your score in a selection of mini-games. I'm not sure if leaderboard bragging rights is a major factor with the party game crowd, but there you are.Final Fantasy XIII 2(Square Enix)No TGS would be complete without a pilgrimage to the Square Enix stand and what better title to try out than Final Fantasy XIII 2? I loved Final Fantasy XIII like a wrong-headed partner, so I couldn't wait to try out the sequel.The game's dynamic menu-based combat system – or the Active Time Battle (ATB) – is back. Players pick out attacks while a meter fills up, and can change the roles of the fighters they control by activating a Paradigm Shift. Quick-Time-Events (QTEs) have also been added to the proceedings, although here they're called Cinematic Actions.That's pretty much all I can tell you, because apart from the instances where the words "Cinematic Action!" or "Paradigm Shift" appeared onscreen, the entire game was in Japanese. I can't tell you what any of the attacks were called, what any of the weapons were called or quote you even one line of dialogue. I also have no context for the battle I had in the opening stages of the demo.I can report, however, it involved a giant, blue disembodied hand trying to crush the characters I was controlling – which in this case were Sarah, Lightning's sister from the first game, whom I recognised, and a dark-haired effeminate young man dressed in blue. According to Wikipedia he's called Noel, so that might be a mystery solved right there…Project Draco(Grounding Inc/Microsoft Game Studios)Down the hall from Kinect Sports 2, Yukio Fatatsugi was demoing his long-awaited upcoming project, which Microsoft hopes will help attract more hardcore players to the motion control device. The opening monologue of Project Draco tells of a world in which humans have befriended dragons after the collapse of civilisation. We were then treated to the sight of a man on the back of a red, leathery dragon soaring above sun-bleached rocks jutting out of an ocean shimmering with reflected sunbeams.Originally shown off at last year's TGS (when the above trailer was shown), Project Draco looks absolutely lovely and it seems to handle pretty well too. The player controls the dragon's movement by bending over and leaning back, right and left. They also have three attacks; light attacks are activated with the left hand, heavy with the right, and they raise both arms for a rechargeable super-heavy attack. All the action seems on-rails to an extent; the camera cuts from the forward to the back to the side, tracking enemies. To a degree the whole affair comes across like a rail-shooter much in the same vein as REZ or Child Of Eden – or, of course, Saturn classic, Panzer Dragoon, which is no bad thing. It's coming to XBLA next year.Ninja Gaiden 3(Team Ninja/Tecmo Koei Games)I was a huge fan of the eye-wateringly hard Ninja Gaiden II so I couldn't wait to get to grips with the demo of its sequel. Things started on a suitably insane note; a terrorist group invades London (check out the incredible Cockney accent at the start of the trailer), kills off half of the police force and takes the Prime Minister hostage. Do they demand an end to the austerity cuts? Nope! Apparently they want Master Ninja Ryu Haybusa to come to London so they can kill him. Hilarity ensues.A couple of things jump out at you immediately on Ninja Gaiden 3. First, the visuals look a lot less sleek and a lot more grainy. It could be that this is an effect of Ryu traipsing through a rain-swept London, but even in close up, the graphics look like they've been infused with a ton of grit. Second, the camera is a lot better than in previous franchise entries. Players can now pan around Ryu's environment quickly and look up and down without the camera snapping back behind him.Well, for the most part anyway. Everything's all right when the player is building up a combo, but when they get on a roll, it's hard to tell what the heck is going on. The camera whooshes in for a close up shot of Ryu's blade slicing through a bonce, freezes for a split second, and then hurtles away for a wider shot of the action. It also doesn't help that the whole screen becomes covered with blood.Players can also use Ultimate attacks and Ninpo and when they do, forget it. The camera zooms about like a ping-pong ball in a tumble dryer. This doesn't hamper your chances, by the way; when the camera goes nuts, players can rest assured that Ryu is on the winning end of a confrontation. In a weird way, the worse the camera gets, the better the player is doing.OneChanbara Z Kagura(D3/Tecmo Koei Games)At the Microsoft booth I also managed to get my hands on D3 Publishing's OneChanbara Z Kagura, which is as utterly barmy as it is leeringly gratuitous. The game, the latest in D2's cult series of OneChanbara-titled hack-'em-ups, follows the adventures of vampire twin sisters Kagura and Saaya, who seem to own hardly any clothes and a lot of edged weapons. Indeed, such was the amount of flesh on display I began my demo feeling rather seedy; I'm not sure which sister I was controlling but she was wearing a cowboy hat and little else besides.After taking a swan-dive onto the decking of a pier, thanks to a parachute that failed to open, the moppet finds herself surrounded by zombies. No trouble there as she's armed with two katana and a pair of blades attached to wires. In no time at all I was skewering the undead right, left and centre, covering the entire environment, and my female vampire, in acres of blood and viscera. It wasn't long before she was caked in the stuff.There's actually a decent, combo-based fighting system at the heart of OneChanbara Z Kagura, and while the violence is openly gory, it's tempered by the game's ridiculous heroine, squeaking and shrieking away as she slices zombies in half. Think Takashi Miike played for cartoon laughs and you'll start to get the idea. It's cheap, silly and rather good fun, and despite the gargantuan levels of flesh and blood, previous titles in the series have acquired a Western release so this could well be stomping toward Europe next year.
iOS5, the next version of Apple's iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad operating system, is heading towards a release in the next two weeks, developers say - which means that a refreshed iPhone is almost certain to be announced in the same timeframe.iOS developers were warned by Apple on Sunday that on Thursday 22 September "the iCloud backup data will be reset. Backing up to iCloud or restoring from an iCloud backup will be unavailable from 9am PDT-5pm PDT… After this reset, you will be unable to restore from any backup created prior to September 22. A full backup will happen automatically the next time your device backs up to iCloud."Why does this matter? Because iOS5 has been in beta since 6 June, when it was announced at Apple's Worldwide Developers' Conference (WWDC). The expectation is that its final GM ("gold master"), working version will be released to the world this month - and what would x.0 Apple iOS release be if it didn't bring a new phone with it too? According to theWikipedia article on the timing of iOS releases, that would be unusual. So people are expecting the next iPhone at the same time.Why though were developers told that their existing backups would be wiped? "Because the backup format has been finalised and old ones that aren't in that format shouldn't remain [in iCloud]," one developer told me. There's that word - "finalised".Developers that I contacted say that iOS 5 seems to be ready for prime time: "[the most recent] iOS 5 beta 7 is two  weeks old. I have faith that Apple has an internal build which fixes most of the outstanding issues. We've been told iCloud will be reset on 22 September, which seems to indicate something is happening," said one. "My guess would be another beta on Friday (which may be the same as the GM), followed by an Apple event on [September] 28 or the following Wednesday where the GM will be released."So that gives you a couple of dates to mark on your calendar. Some aren't waiting - the perhaps opportunistic businessmobiles.com is already faxing companies and people (I forbear to say "junk-faxing" - I'm sure some people are happy to receive them) with the fabulous chance to pre-order the iPhone 5: here's thepicture of the fax, via Matt Brian of The Next Web. (Unfortunately they haven't actually got apictureof the iPhone 5. Now that would be news.)When I phoned businessmobiles to ask where it was getting them from, and how soon, the answers were "don't honestly know" (though obviously it will be a carrier) and "before Christmas". OK, so that's your backstop date. But the salesperson said that since the faxes started going out on Thursday he personally had taken 15 (individual) orders, and that interest was running higher than for the recently released range of BlackBerry phones (which you would expect would do better than iPhones, being usually thought of as a business phone).Apple PR did not respond to a request for comment on the timing of the iOS 5 or next iPhone launch by time of publication.So what should you expect from iOS 5 - which you'll recallintroducesAndroid-like notifications, BlackBerry Messenger-killer (or at least pain in right knee-er)iMessage,geofenced reminders,deep Twitter integrationand various other things (such as being able to take a picture without unlocking the camera - though we can see that one going wrong).Here's the view from a mixture of developers who've been trying it.How different does it look?Developer comment:"From a user's front end, it's probably not going to feel like a huge jump straight away, so I think you'll find a lot of 'huh? Is that it?' comments. Visually, the core thing that changes is how the system deals with notifications from apps, which is now very Android-like."He adds:"Some of the biggest changes come within what apps can do themselves (and so general users are unlikely to directly credit Apple with some of the changes coming)."What's the Twitter support like?Developer:Twitter support is baked in, although oddly you do need to download the free Twitter app to activate it. This may be a pre-launch requirement rather than an ongoing thing, of course. Once iOS devs can release code built on the v5 code, Twitter apps will be able to use any account info defined within Settings as well as use a special Twitter-friendly keyboard with @ and # available from the off (kind of like the email and URL special keyboards).What about iCloud(which synchronises between your computer, tablet and phone)?One dev says:"The integration with iCloud is looking very smart, but I haven't got any apps which need that functionality so I'm not too hot on how it works in reality compared with how the docs /say/ it will work... Similarly, I know of several magazine publishers who are waiting to release apps that integrate with the new Newsstand folder. Until they do, it's just an undeletable icon that does nothing of use."Another says:"The riskiest bit seems to be iCloud at the moment, specifically iTunes Match. In early beta's the whole syncing/backup piece was a bit hit and miss - duplicating contacts, bookmarks and the like - but I've been testing across multiple Mac's and iOS devices and those kinks seem to have been worked out. Since iTunes Match was released to developers, the Music app has became quite unstable - its slow and a bit unpredictable. Some songs won't play, it starts playing randomly (this is a bit strange, seems to be tied to when I go from signal/no-signal areas)."How does it compare to Android?Developer:"I'm probably biased... but in terms of user experience, iOS is still the best choice for consumers - its so easy to pick up and use. While Android has been making big strides over the past few years, it still feels more.... complicated than it needs to be. The App ecosystem is also fragmented and less consumer friendly."iOS 5 takes an already great platform and builds in more incentives to buy into the whole iOS/Mac ecosystem. iCloud/iMessage are great examples of this - and they are also things which separate it from Android. No Android device vendor can offer that fully integrated solution."For developers, iOS has always been the better choice in terms of tools and SDK - Android has always been a bit sparse in this area. With iOS 5, Apple has introduced a lot of new API's and features which will make it easier to write apps."Another dev:"The only real advantage for developers that Android [now] has, and it depends what kind of app you are writing, is that with Android there is no app store review/approval process.""The new functionality for the most part seems rock solid - Reminders, Notifications, Sync/Backup, Twitter, iMessage....What's new under the hood?• Developer support for creating multi-touch gestures,• CoreImage which allows developers to manipulate 2D images and apply photoshop-like effects and filters,• ARC which I suspect is part of a much larger plan. ARC basically makes developing for iOS much more accessible, and negates the need for developers to do complicated memory management.• Full support for UI automation and testingAny problems?One dev says:"My biggest bugbear at the moment (on my lowly 3GS) is the number of times app quit due to memory shortages, or because they've taken too long to load. I'm hoping that the debugging code within the iOS core is partly to blame here, and once it reaches release the core's footprint will shrink and  things will run as smoothly as iOS 4.If it doesn't, and I have to get used to frequent app crashes on my 3GS, then I'll be disappointed. Of course, I've had it so long that an upgrade to a 4 or (more likely) a 5 isn't too far away, but I'd like my iPhone to remain functional but slow. It's hard to type on an iPhone keyboard when you're also crossing your fingers it won't crash.(Note that the 3GS is the oldest model that will be supported by iOS5.).So the drums are beginning to beat.
"It's been a fairly hectic few weeks," says Dan Marshall, founder of Zombie Cow – a name he grew to dislike so much, that he finally changed it over the summer.It was a painful process, not least because the, ahem, brand (not a very indie term) was well known amid indie gaming circles for brilliantly funny titles likeBen There, Done Thatand Channel 4-sponsored sex education title,Privates. "As an indie developer, I can't really afford to lose the name recognition I've built up over the last few years," he admits. "But hey, at least I'm no longer moping my way through life worrying about how much I hate the name of the company I set up..."After apparently weeks of deliberation he settled onSize Five Games, and then got stuck into the days of boring legal and financial paperwork necessary to affect the change, "as well as all sorts of website and Twitter change shenanigans".We caught up with him last week to find out what else he's been doing.Our Indie Dozen series is following a group of indie games designers through their development year. You can find out more, and read previous updates,here.Can you tell us what you've been working on over the summer?I actually tend to be pretty lazy over the summer months. What's the point in being self-employed if you can't seize every opportunity to disappear off to the seaside to lie in the sunshine and read a book wherever possible?That said, there have only been about a dozen sunny days all summer, so the rest of the time I've been full swing on The Swindle, my new steampunk cybercrime caper game. It's going really well, but I'm still laying the groundwork, really: the basics of movement are there, and the level editor's in. It's now just a case of getting enough game elements in to actually make a workable prototype of a level.You've justblogged about creating your own GiANT engine: how was it built and did you work with any middleware or third-party elements?My engine is based largely aroundXNAandFarseer Physics. To be honest, I've found them both a dream to work with – there are quirks, naturally, but very few things that can't be thought around with some crafty code. For example, the trouble with using a physics engine as the core to your game is that making anything work against physics then becomes a problem: so if you want Sonic the Hedgehog-style movement, as I do, you sort of need to trick the physics part of the engine at times, because it's being all grown-up and realistic about how to handle gravity. It can be a headache at times, and what should be a simple five-minute job winds up taking all day, but the physics looks so good in-game I can't complain!Have you attended any festivals or conferences? What did you learn?There is always loads to learn at the Develop conference! I'm not entirely sure what any of it is – I tend to use the event as a way of having a bit of a break and meet new people. It signals the start of my summer laziness, I guess. But it's always amazing to go down and hang around in the bar saying hello to strangers; I come back having met so many new artists, programmers and musicians I desperately want to work with!What are some of the key game design issues you've faced over the summer?The Swindle is still a huge unknown for much of the design – it sounds great on paper, but until I've got all the gameplay elements in and working together, it's impossible to be definitive about the gameplay proper. At the moment, I'm thinking a lot about death in games, and about how generally infuriating it is; death means a re-load or restarting an entire level, but invulnerability is boring. So it's about finding some middle ground between the two where the player doesn't want to die, but if they do no one's going to throw a keyboard across the room.I'm still not entirely sure what the solution is – I'm considering making death a temporary inconvenience progress-wise (similar to the Vita chambers in Bioshock), but a massive inconvenience in terms of in-game currency (which is what the game's all about). It's a difficult juggling act, and I'm still not 100% sure what the solution is...And have you taught yourself anything new in terms of programming?I'm constantly learning programming! I've only been doing it for a few years, so I feel like I'm still hobbling around with stabilisers on. Every new 'thing' is generally a massive uphill struggle to me, another series of hurdles to be navigated.Most recently, I took a brief look at AI and pathfinding, before deciding it was too vital a game component to have me blunder on through it on my own – enemies really need to be able to find their way around the map niftily, so I buckled and got someone else to look at my code and do it properly. Finding out how someone who knows their stuff is going to do it is kind of mind-blowing. I'm struggling to keep up with the theory of it all, let alone the practice.So while he's handling pathfinding, I'm reading up on fuzzy logic and putting random characteristics into place. What if a guard's naturally quite lazy? What will he do? Will he turn a blind eye and let you slip past, because he's a bit of a coward?What do you think are some of the key design and development trends in the indie community at the moment?Big Pixels! It's all big pixels at the moment, isn't it? Since VVVVVV, Super Meat Boy and Minecraft, if you ask a room full of indies who's making a game with really big pixels most of them will sheepishly raise an arm.Also, that Limbo/Insanely Twisted Shadow Planet thing of all the foreground being solid black is pretty popular. I really want to make a platformer with big pixels and solid black foregrounds, I think it'd be cute and easier graphics-wise, but I'm scared that by the time I get round to releasing it there'll be a million similar-looking games.And are there any current indie projects you find really inspiring?Well, because I'm making a game about stealing things I'm keeping a close eye on Monaco and Subversion – both handle the concept VERY differently to mine, but it'll be interesting seeing how they go about certain gameplay elements we're bound to have in common.You can follow Dan on Twitter at@Danthat.
The Google executive chairman, Eric Schmidt, will appear before a US Senate committee on Wednesday to argue that the internet giant is not abusing its position as the world's most popular search engine.Schmidt is expected to face down claims that Google crowds out competition by ranking its own products above those of rivals in search results.TheSenate hearingcomes as Google is facing separate investigations by regulatorsin the USandthe EUover its dominance of the search market.Schmidt, who stepped aside as Google chief executive in April, is expected to argue the company offers a level playing field for rival products – and is increasingly facing competition from social networking sites such as Facebook and Twitter.He will argue that Google's position as the world's No 1 search engine belies a rise in alternative ways to find information online, pointing to Facebook and other social networks.Research from Nielsenlast week showed that US internet users spend more time on Facebook than any other website.The attacks on Google include complaints in Europe and the US from the British search company Foundem, which has repeatedly claimed its results are pushed down in Google rankings for no clear reason – and that the company can artificially promote or demote them. Foundem and Ciao, a Microsoft-owned site, have complained to the European Commission, which is carrying out a separate investigation into whether Google is abusing its effective monopoly in search.Google enjoys a 90% share of the global internet search market, according to themost recent figures from metrics firm StatsCounter, although its share varies considerably by country.Senator Richard Blumenthal, a committee member who is among the politicians due to quiz Schmidt , described Google as a "great American success story" but said the company had to face questions about its market share."Concerns have been raised by both regulators and competitors over whether Google has used its dominance of the online and smartphone search markets to impose extra costs on consumers, unfairly preference its own products, or disadvantage competitors through a variety of means, including its search and advertising systems," Blumenthal said in a statement to Reuters.The Senate committee will also hear evidence from Google rivals, including Jeremy Stoppelman, chief executive of the reviews site Yelp, and Jeff Katz, chief excutive of the price comparison site Nextag.
I'm responding to Cory Doctorow's column –Lib Dems get a chance to vote on copyright reform– as I feel it gives a one-sided view of the government's legislation.The Digital Economy Act is first and foremost about protecting millions of workers in the creative industries who rely on the success of this sector for their jobs and livelihoods. A rightsholder can be anyone from a small independent production company, a script writer, individual musician or artist through to a major film studio, book publisher or music company.Significant capital is required upfront to get ventures off the ground. If the rights owners and investors in the property are prevented from recouping their investment and generating profits, there will be less money to invest in the high-quality popular television programmes and films that the British public enjoy in their millions, and which generate much-needed income through exports while sustaining much-needed high-quality jobs across the UK.Turning to Doctorow's article, the Digital Economy Act (DEA) was not rammed through parliament in the wash-up without any debate. The DEA is the result of years of extensive consultation, consideration and debate. It takes account of findings in theGowers Review(PDF) of intellectual property published back in 2005. It was the follow-up to theDigital Britain White Paperwhich was consulted on extensively between autumn 2008 and June 2009. The Act was debated for 12 full days – more than 50 hours – on the floor of the House of Lords, during which time some 700 amendments were tabled.Doctorow states that the DEA makes provision for disconnecting families from the internet if someone using their connection is accused of illegal downloading. This is scaremongering, and doesn't reflect the complexity of the process or the appeals function.In fact, people will receive repeated warning notices with information and advice on where to find material legally online and on how best to secure their internet connection if they suspect someone of hacking it. Only serious repeat infringers may be subject to court action by rightsholders when every other option has failed.Furthermore, this, or any other form of technical measure, is not possible without secondary legislation being passed by a separate vote of both Houses of Parliament, which has to follow scrutiny by committees of each House (the "super affirmative" regime). In addition there will be an appeals process through an independent body set up by Ofcom.(Furthermore, technical measures cannot even be considered until the notice-sending regime as initially provided for in the Act proves to be insufficient in tackling online copyright infringement.)The entertainment industry does not seek to dictate who has access to the internet – this is completely untrue. The creative industries sector which employs1.3 millionpeople simply seeks to protect its intellectual copyright online as it does in the physical world – a fact conveniently ignored by Doctorow.On France, Doctorow is wrong again. TheHadopiregime is doing what it was designed to do – deterring people from using illegal sites:50% of usersin France who have received a notice (or know of people close to them who have) have stopped consuming illegally. Furthermore, a total of 72% have either stopped or reduced illegal consumption.Applying criminal sanctions to copyright infringement would be unprecedented in the industrialised world says Doctorow. Really? Actually, criminal sanctions have been a feature of UK copyright law since at least 1988 (see s107.1 of the original act).As much as we'd all love to have everything for free, this is frankly a juvenile view of the world. It refuses to engage in the complex issues that have to be properly understood to ensure that we can enjoy all of the benefits of the digital future and the products of our world beating creative industries. Mr Doctorow contributes little to the debate by seeking to misrepresent the facts.•John McVay is the chief executive ofPactand a member of theCreative Coalition Campaign
Video game awards are usually quite straightforward – the staff or readers of a particular publication vote on their favourites, agonise over cult gems, argue about criteria... and then Call of Duty, Assassin's Creed or Mass Effect win it.But it looks likethe GameCity prizecould be different. Announced last week by the organisers ofthe annual games festival, the prize has been conceived as a gaming answer to the Booker, Turner or Mercury Music prizes – in short, it's a conscious attempt to award creative brilliance, individuality and cultural standing, rather than sales, nice graphics or even compelling gameplay.It's a fascinating and highly contentious criteria. It's arguable that, if the over-riding quality that the judges are looking for is cultural impact then mainstream blockbusters should be in with a better chance than more innovative, but hardly seen, indie gems. And indeed, what the heck is 'cultural impact' in this context?"Our intention with this is to kickstart conversation and discussion," says the festival's director, Iain Simons. "However much videogames contribute to UK GDP, it seems they're still not talked about in the same breathe as other 'culture' and if it is, it's often portrayed as a lesser, slightly uglier cousin. "The game was so amazing, it was like a movie!" and so on... Videogames aren't rubbish versions of movies, they're videogames – and I think it's important we begin to celebrate and explore them on their own terms.Apparently, there were no restrictions on the types of games that could be nominated. The only rules were that titles had to have been published within the last 12 months. "One of the things we were clear about from the start is that this Prize will totally disregard genre, platform and budget," says Simons. A shortlist of contenders has already been drawn up by a 'secret academy' of industry insiders – the titles are Minecraft, LIMBO, Portal 2, Child of Eden, ilomilo, Superbrothers Sword and Sworcery EP and Pokemon Black. It's an interesting mix then, of highly self-conscious indie titles and mainstream releases, though everyone will have glaring omissions to complain about.The competition will be judged by an interesting jury including MP Tom Watson, musician Nitin Sawnhey and author/comedian Charlie Higson. Some are dedicated gamers, others have never plugged in a console. As Simons explains, "My hope is that we'll see a jury with a wide variety of cultural experiences to bring to their playing, and that they'll map their playing back to that wide range of experience. We've deliberately and provocatively not given them any fixed criteria for that very reason."So why is it necessary to interrogate games in this way? And can we really have a games award that garners as much mainstream coverage – and intellectual debate – as the Turner prize or the Bookers? Do we want one? Gamers can be rather defensive about the wider significance of the medium, screaming 'it's just a game!' into internet comments sections as soon as any deeper consideration begins.Personally, I'm all for it, because arguing about games is fun, and can teach us about why we like the titles that we do. As Simons concludes, "More than anything else, I want the prize to be driving a discussion about videogames that isn't apologist, paranoid or defensive, but inclusive and smart. Our focus isn't if games are art or not (of course they are), if they will transform your kids into sociopaths or not (look at the evidence) – I'm bored of that kind of questioning and that kind of paranoid defending."The GameCity Prize is about cultural confidence, about how videogamesare interesting - which for me is the most important thing."GameCityis taking place from October 26-29. The winner of the prize will be announced at a special event on the last day of the festival.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 17 SeptemberPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Dead Island(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (47)PC (2)22 (2)Warhammer 40,000: Space Marine(15+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (29)PC (10)23 (4)Resistance 3(18+)PS3 (100)24 (3)Driver: San Francisco(12+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (46)Wii (2)35 (5)Deus Ex: Human Revolution(15+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (37)PC (5)46 (6)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (88)Xbox 360 (10)PS3 (2)257 (8)Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean(7+)Wii (33)DS (23)Xbox 360 (22)PS3 (14)198 (7)Rugby World Cup 2011(3+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (45)49 (15)Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4(7+)Wii (33)DS (32)Xbox 360 (18)PS3 (16)2910 (11)Cars 2(3+)DS (34)Wii (32)Xbox 360 (18)PS3 (16)911 (–)Red Faction: Armageddon(15+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (38)PC (4)612 (–)Wii Sports Resort(3+)Wii (100)9713 (9)Star Fox 64 3D(7+)3DS (100)214 (–)EA Sports Active 2(3+)Wii (62)PS3 (36)Xbox 360 (3)615 (16)The Sims 3(12+)PC (51)Xbox 360 (14)Wii (12)DS (11)4316 (13)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (42)PS3 (42)PC (9)Wii (6)4217 (10)Gran Turismo 5(3+)PS3 (100)1318 (–)Rise Of Nightmares(18+)Xbox 360 (100)119 (14)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (30)PS3 (27)Wii (16)PSP (13)5120 (20)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)41UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple scrambles to merge Apple IDs to stave off iCloud sync mess &gt;&gt; Wired.com"Apple appears to be working on a process to allow iTunes users with more than one Apple ID to somehow 'merge' them into a single account. The ability to do so will be critical to the early success of the company's new iCloud service, since it relies on Apple IDs for syncing iTunes purchases and other data."Could get messy.Thoughts from Rim's Q2 financial results conference call &gt;&gt; CrackBerry.comA former analyst explains why Wall Street has a downer on Rim. Though it basically comes down to: keep overpromising and underdelivering.Gamers solve molecular puzzle that baffled scientists &gt;&gt; Cosmic Log"Video game players have solved a molecular puzzle that stumped scientists for years, and those scientists say the accomplishment could point the way to crowdsourced cures for Aids and other diseases."'This is one small piece of the puzzle in being able to help with Aids,' Firas Khatib, a biochemist at the University of Washington, said. Khatib is the lead author of a research paper on the project, published today by Nature Structural &amp; Molecular Biology."Cracking OS X Lion passwords &gt;&gt; Defence in Depth"Due to Lions relatively short time on the market, I am yet to find any of the major crackers supporting OS X Lion hashes (SHA512 + 4-byte salt). To simplify the cracking of these hashes I have created a simple python script which can be downloaded here."Now, if the password is not found by the dictionary file you're out of luck, right? Well, no! Why crack hashes when you can just change the password directly! It appears Directory Services in Lion no longer requires authentication when requesting a password change for the current user."Note that it's the logged-in user. Not clear what happens if that user then logs out. (Also, you'd need to be accessing a machine where multiple users are logged in. Does that happen a lot?)Dell shrugs off harbingers of PC doom &gt;&gt; FT.comSubscription required. Extract: "Mr Dell believes we are not yet in a post-PC era."'There are a billion and a half PCs in the world and while Gartner change their estimates here and there, they also estimate there will be two billion PCs in the world by 2014. So when I look at that, I think the idea that the PC is no longer here is complete nonsense,' he says."'You see PCs, tablets, you see smartphones. But those other devices aren't necessarily replacing the PCs, so we are very committed to that part of the business, as part of this broader, end-to-end IT solutions company,' he says. PC growth will come mainly from emerging markets, such as China, he says. China is also a big market for Dell's servers, as a result of deals with big internet companies such as Tencent. 'Around 60% of the Chinese internet runs on Dell,' Mr Dell says.The infinite version of Google Chrome &gt;&gt; Coding HorrorJeff Atwood considers how Google Chrome now needs to download only the tiniest bit of code for its updates - but how work remains to be done: "Since the version updates are relatively small, they can be downloaded in the background. But even Google hasn't figured out how to install an update while the browser is running. Yes, there are little alert icons to let you know your browser is out of date, and you eventually do get nagged if you are woefully behind, but updating always requires the browser to restart."RIM and the lamentation of the analyst &gt;&gt; Asymco"This is the lament of the analyst: you can clearly and accurately state what will happen but when remains a mystery.It's the elasticity between obvious causes and their effects that makes this an inexact science or not a science at all.In retrospect, you can say that Nokia's pivot was triggered by its public execution of Symbian, but that assumes that it was preventable-which we know is not the case. But what caused Rim's change of growth, exactly? Why did it happen this past spring? Why didn't the company volumes begin to decline as iPhone and Android boomed in 2009 or 2010?"Plus, as Dediu points out, Rim's financial information is becoming more and more difficult to analyse as major information (precise number of subscribers, ASPs) are omitted.Why Facebook is the new Yahoo &gt;&gt; Datamation"Sure, Facebook looks massively successful. With a mind-boggling 750 million users, the social site can do no wrong, right?"Wrong. Look closer, and it looks like Facebook can do nothing right. The company has tried and failed to launch or integrate new services that might thrill users. But users aren't thrilled. And now its strategy appears to be: Just copy Google+."Don't look now, but Facebook is quickly becoming the new Yahoo."The sort of piece that might have Mark Zuckerberg waking up going "ahhh!". Scarily true.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
To what extent does Android respect the freedom of its users? For a computer user that values freedom, that is the most important question to ask about any software system.Inthe free/libre software movement, we develop software that respects users' freedom, so we and you can escape from software that doesn't. By contrast, the idea of "open source" focuses on how to develop code; it is a different current of thought whose principal value iscode quality rather than freedom.Thus, the concern here is not whether Android is "open", but whether it allows users to be free.Android is an operating system primarily for mobile phones, which consists of Linux (Torvalds's kernel), some libraries, a Java platform and some applications. Linux aside, the software of Android versions 1 and 2 was mostly developed by Google; Google released it under the Apache 2.0 license, which is a lax free software license withoutcopyleft.The version of Linux included in Android is not entirely free software, since it contains non-free "binary blobs" (just like Torvalds' version of Linux), some of which are really used in some Android devices. Android platforms use other non-free firmware, too, and non-free libraries. Aside from those, the source code of Android versions 1 and 2, as released by Google, is free software – but this code is insufficient to run the device. Some of the applications that generally come with Android are non-free, too.Android is very different from theGNU/Linux operating systembecause it contains very little of GNU. Indeed, just about the only component in common between Android and GNU/Linux is Linux, the kernel. People who erroneously think "Linux" refers to the entire GNU/Linux combination get tied in knots by these facts, and make paradoxical statements such as "Android contains Linux, but it isn't Linux". If we avoid starting from the confusion, the situation is simple: Android contains Linux, but not GNU; thus, Android and GNU/Linux are mostly different.(Within Android, Linux the kernel remains a separate program, with its source code underGNU GPL version 2. To combine Linux with code under the Apache 2.0 license would be copyright infringement, since GPL version 2 andApache 2.0are incompatible. Rumours that Google has somehow converted Linux to the Apache license are erroneous; Google has no power to change the licence on the code of Linux, and did not try. If the authors of Linux allowed its use under GPL version 3, then that code could be combined with Apache-licensed code, and the combination could be released under GPL version 3. But Linux has not been released that way.)Google has complied with the requirements of the GNU General Public License for Linux, but the Apache license on the rest of Android does not require source release. Google has said it will never publish the source code of Android 3.0 (aside from Linux), even though executables have been released to the public. Android 3.1 source code is also being withheld. Thus, Android 3, apart from Linux, is non-free software, pure and simple.Google said it withheld the 3.0 source code because it was buggy, and that people should wait for the next release. That may be good advice for people who simply want to run the Android system, but the users should be the ones to decide this. Anyway, developers and tinkerers who want to include some of the changes in their own versions could use that code just fine.The non-release of two versions' source code raises concern that Google might intend to turn Android proprietary permanently; that the release of some Android versions as free software may have been a temporary ploy to get community assistance in improving a proprietary software product. Let us hope does not happen.In any case, most of the source code of some versions of Android has been released as free software. Does that mean that products using those Android versions respect users' freedom? No, for several reasons.First of all, most of them contain non-free Google applications for talking to services such as YouTube and Google Maps. These are officially not part of Android, but that doesn't make the product OK. There are also non-free libraries; whether they are part of Android is a moot point. What matters is that various functionalities need them.Even the executables that are officially part of Android may not correspond to the source code Google releases. Manufacturers may change this code, and often they don't release the source code for their versions. The GNU GPL requires them to distribute the code for their versions of Linux, if they comply. The rest of the code, under the lax Apache license, does not require them to release the source version that they really use. Replicant, a free version of Android that supports just a few phone models, has replaced many of these libraries, and you can do without the non-free apps. But there are other problems.Some device models are designed to stop users from installing and using modified software. In that situation, the executables are not free even if they were made from sources that are free and available to you. However, some Android devices can be "rooted" so users can install different software.Important firmware or drivers are generally proprietary also. These handle the phone network radio, Wi-Fi, bluetooth, GPS, 3D graphics, the camera, the speaker, and in some cases the microphone too. On some models, a few of these drivers are free, and there are some that you can do without – but you can't do without the microphone or the phone network radio.The phone network firmware comes pre-installed. If all it did was sit there and run, we could regard it as equivalent to a circuit. When we insist that the software in a computing device must be free, we can overlook pre-installed firmware that will never be upgraded, because it makes no difference to the user that it's a program rather than a circuit.Unfortunately, in this case it would be a malicious circuit. Malicious features are unacceptable no matter how they are implemented.On most Android phones, this firmware has so much control that it could turn the product into a listening device. On some, it controls the microphone. On some, it can take full control of the main computer, through shared memory, and can thus override or replace whatever free software you have installed. With some models it is possible to exercise remote control of this firmware, and thus of the phone's computer, through the phone radio network.The point of free software is that we have control of our computing, and this doesn't qualify. While any computing system mighthavebugs, these devices mightbebugs. (Craig Murray, inMurder in Samarkand, relates his involvement in an intelligence operation that remotely converted an unsuspecting target's non-Android portable phone into a listening device.)In any case, the phone network firmware in an Android device is not equivalent to a circuit, because the hardware allows installation of new versions and this is actually done. Since it is proprietary firmware, in practice only the manufacturer can make new versions – users can't.Putting these points together, we can tolerate non-free phone network firmware provided new versions of it won't be loaded, it can't take control of the main computer, and it can only communicate when and as the free operating system chooses to let it communicate. In other words, it has to be equivalent to circuitry, and that circuitry must not be malicious. There is no obstacle to building an Android phone which has these characteristics, but we don't know of any.Recent press coverage of Android has focused on the patent wars. During 20 years of campaigning for the abolition of software patents, we have warned such wars could happen. Software patents could force elimination of features from Android, or even make it unavailable. (Seeendsoftpatents.orgfor more information about why software patents must be abolished.)However, the patent attacks, and Google's responses, are not directly relevant to the topic of this article: how Android products approach an ethically system of distribution and how they fall short. This issue merits the attention of the press too.Android is a major step towards an ethical, user-controlled, free-software portable phone, but there is a long way to go. Hackers are working onReplicant, but it's a big job to support a new phone model, and there remains the problem of the firmware. Even though the Android phones of today are considerably less bad than Apple or Windows smartphones, they cannot be said to respect your freedom.•Copyright 2011 Richard Stallman. Released under theCreative Commons Attribution Noderivs 3.0 licence.
With millions of parents happily handing their smartphones nd tablets over to their children to play with, there are dozens of startups focusing on making apps for kids. UK-headquartered Mindshapes is one of them, having released two iOS apps based on its own JellyToons characters and two on more traditional children's fare: fairy taleJack And The Beanstalkand nursery rhymeHickory Dickory Dock.The latter is the company's newest app, teaching children the time with the help of the well-known song and a cute cartoon mouse. It's great fun, and wears its educational aspects lightly. That, says the company's director of mobile product development Jinhee Ahn Kim, is the point."The whole idea behind Mindshapes is to take educational principles and mix them with creative passion," she says. "It's the marriage of both. We'll choose an age group and subject, think about the educational principles and how they fit into the school curriculum, and then layer creative talent – game designers, artists and creatives – so we don't just end up with a flash-card app. How can we include gameplay in this so children almost don't notice they're learning?"Kim quickly adds that she thinks there's a place for pure flash-card learning apps – there are certainly plenty on the app stores – but says Mindshapes wants to sit at the intersection between those and pure games.Mindshapes' best app so far is Jack And The Beanstalk, which like other fairy-tale book-apps from companies likeNosy Crowand Ideal Binary, has imagination and production values that make it stand out from the hundreds of cheap, unappealing rivals. It has some canny modern elements, too, such as Jack's console gaming habit."We wanted to create an interactive e-book designed for young boys, who can be reluctant emerging readers," says Kim. "That's why we chose a classic story that appealed to boys, versus one of those princess or fairy type things. And we wanted to give it that modern twist."Another noticeable thing about Jack And The Beanstalk is that the interaction – and there's a lot of it – is closely tied into the story, rather than simply flinging objects around the screen to show off a physics engine. According to Kim, that's important."We're putting all the interactivity into the reading of the story," she says. "The gameplay on each of the pages reinforces the content and the reading comprehension. It's immersive and draws the children in, with the character and gameplay keeping them in the story. With interaction, it's always about how does it drive the story?"One trend that's coming through with the best book-apps for children is that they're not just aimed at the kids: there are often little nods to parents too, with references to popular culture or sly humour. This isn't a new idea of course – watch a Pixar movie for plenty of examples – but in apps it reinforces the idea that these are made to be used by children with their parents, not just on their own."A lot of us are parents, and have gone through that whole process where the joy of reading a book – especially for a young child – is to be sharing it with their parents," says Kim. "It's that break during the day when they're sat on your lap having a chuckle over something, or the parent is teaching something. It's that quiet, quality time we're hoping is there for the parent and child using our apps."Kim says that doesn't mean Mindshapes apps can't be used by a child on their own – "there are times when you're driving or need to be cooking dinner…" – so there are read-to-me modes in the company's book-apps, and lots of focus-group testing before release to see how children get on with the apps.Mindshapes has several more apps coming out this year, including book-apps, games and playful digital toys. Kim says the company is deliberately not tying itself to one particular kind of app, like books."Some app companies have a very specific look and gameplay, or just do interactive e-books, but we are spanning from very gamey, to very educational, to very interactive books," she says.Thus far, Mindshapes has chosen to focus on its own intellectual property, the JellyToons, or traditional (out-of-copyright) children's content, using its character design skills in the latter case, as shown by the mouse in Hickory Dickory Dock.Kim says that on a creative level, coming up with new characters is a fun way to work, albeit one that is also rigorously tested out in local nurseries to see which characters children are drawn to. Mindshapes is up against some big brands on the App Store, from Sesame Street to Dora the Explorer and Peppa Pig, so there's little room for error in its character design if it is to compete."It's about tapping into what resonates with different age groups, and providing engaging characters," she says. "If children learn something with, for example, Elmo, they retain it and learn it a lot better. If there are recognisable characters, the child has empathy for them, and that helps them remember and process better."There's another challenge here: discovery on the App Store (for now, Mindshapes is iOS-only). Apps based on popular children's brands will be recognised by the parents who are buying, but new characters and even nursery rhymes and fairy tales face a hurdle  of trust.Kim says word of mouth continues to be the way most parents find out about good apps, although Mindshapes is also focusing part of its PR strategy on parenting blogs to help build buzz around its apps. "It's not easy to get discovered on the App Store, so you have to go in non-traditional ways," she says.Meanwhile, Kim says she is excited about the potential for apps on smartphones and tablets, particularly as schools start to embrace the latter."Entire kindergartens are getting outfitted with iPads: the class computer is being replaced," she says."It's a really exciting area, I think: bringing learning to the kids on a personal level. And these days, teachers have to make learning appealing to the kids who have lots of screen-time at home, whether that's TV, video games or using mobile devices. There's a lot of innovation going on, and it's raising the bar. Kids are very sophisticated in what they're exposed to and what they feel is good. You certainly can't talk down to them with poor quality apps."
A burst of 10 apps for your considerationPringles Crunch BandA lot of brands have embarrassed themselves with their apps, but Procter &amp; Gamble's new iPhone app for crisp brand Pringles is at least interesting. It promises "air instrument awesomeness" – accelerometer-powered virtual guitar, bass and drums played by waving the iPhone in the air. The twist is that barcodes from crisp-cans can be scanned to unlock new instruments, including slap bass and techno beats.iPhoneTripIt for Windows PhoneTravel-organising service Tripit has launched its new Windows Phone app after a period in beta testing. It's part of a service that involves forwarding confirmation emails for a holiday or trip to create a single itinerary. The new app joins existing iOS, Android and BlackBerry versions.Windows PhoneBon Jovi: World TourJon Bon Jovi himself provides an intro message and audio commentary for this iPhone app, which is a collection of pictures taken on Bon Jovi's last world tour by photographer David Bergman.iPhoneStyleJuryStyleJury isn't the first app to help people share photos of their clothes and get feedback in friends, but it looks one of the more polished examples. This one ties into Facebook's social graph, creating a private photo album on the social network which can be shared with specific friends. The idea: ask those friends to tell you if you'll look good in a specific set of clothes.iPhoneVogue Daily LookNot aimed at a UK audience (although it's available in the App Store here), Vogue Daily Look is the work of fashion magazine Vogue's Taiwan operation, seemingly offering readers a daily outfit to peruse.iPhoneTouchGen Magazine – Issue 2TouchGen looks a bit like games industry bible Edge, except it's an iPad magazine app focused entirely on iOS gaming. A free download, it includes news, features and reviews of a host of titles.iPadWars of FortuneWars of Fortune is the latest massively multiplayer online role playing game (MMORPG) to try its hand on Android. Six hero classes, lots of monsters and treasure, and the obligatory in-game tavern too.AndroidA Night on the Galactic RailwayJapanese children's author Kenji Miyazawa has a trippy-looking new iPad book-app where the text is accompanied by beautiful illustrations and 'toytronica' music.iPadFootball3D Coach ProForget throwing teacups across the dressing room: imagine a damage an enraged football manager could do with an iPad. This is one of a growing number of apps aimed at sports coaches, complete with 3D animations to show particular tactics from the point of view of any player.iPadTaro at the Centre of the EarthTaro at the Centre of the Earth looks like a well crafted iPad book-app for children, with text and narration in both English and Finnish. Its launch price (£13.49) may put parents off taking a punt, though.iPadYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
Oh, here we go – Monday again...
The 20-year bonanza enjoyed by mobile phone carriers is nearing its end, with revenues failing to keep pace with the number of new connections, according to research to be published on Tuesday.Much of the mobile companies' new business will come from the developing world, where they are unable to charge the same level of fees as they do in western markets.In addition, voice traffic is likely to decline as free internet services increase, with rising data traffic unable to make up the difference.Over the next five years, says telecoms analystOvum, the number of mobile connections will grow by 30%, from just under 6bn this year to 7.8bn in 2016, but total revenues will rise by just under 10% to $1.047 trillion (£663bn). In western Europe, revenues will actually fall, from $193bn to $186bn in 2016."Any delusions that this industry will continue to grow astronomically have to be thrown out of the window now," said the report's author, Emeka Obiodu. "We can safely say that the telecoms industry is now mature, and what we have here is a utility sector. It is all about paying healthy dividends to your shareholders and defending your turf."Two decades of expansion have seen the sector produce six of the world's 100 largest companies, by market capitalisation. But expansion by dominant western players Vodafone, Telefónica and AT&amp;T into developing markets in Africa, the Middle East and Asia will not produce a second wave of staggering profits.The growth in global connections will be driven by Africa, and the big three Asia Pacific markets – China, India and Indonesia. These markets accounted for 44% of global connections last year, and that proportion will increase to 51% by 2016.In Africa, the number of customers will grow by more than 9% a year, with 991m connections in Africa in 2016, nearly one eighth of the world's total. But revenues in the region will rise at only half the speed, by 5% a year.Western Europe is predicted to be the worst performing region and the only one to experience revenue decline. It remains important, generating 18% of global sales from just 7% of the world's customers. The US will have the fastest growth rate of any mature market, and North America will increase revenues from $194bn to $220bn.The mobile internet will not do much to increase takings. Instead, the fees charged for carrying data will start to replace those charged for making voice calls. Voice revenues will move from 69% to 60% of income in 2016, falling from $658bn today to $628bn in five years.Cash from non-voice services will rise to $419bn by 2016, moving from 31% of income today to 40% in 2016.Customers will precipitate the change, as more people make voice calls over the mobile internet, using services such as Skype or Viber. According to the report, VoIP (voice over internet protocol) "replaces existing voice revenues and threatens the high margins operators earn from these services by showing that mobile voice can be offered for free".Microsoft, which this year acquired Skype, will be hoping along with Google and Apple to "undermine the telcos' grip". Until recently, most operators would not allow customers to use Skype on their networks but Ovum expects Microsoft's marketing muscle to make it increasingly popular with customers."It is time for operators to embrace the fact that their data revenues are going to replace their voice revenues," said Obiodu. This will mean scrapping unlimited data tariffs and introducing clear data price bands.He believes mobile carriers will maintain their lavish marketing budgets. "You either compete on price, on having a good brand, or on quality. With telcos, the quality of networks doesn't vary much, and you don't want to compete on price, so you have to compete on brand. There is an imperative for operators to continuously invest in building and maintaining a strong brand."
Albert Einstein was on the money about many things, but a tad optimistic when it came to pursuing madcap schemes: "If at first the idea is not absurd, then there is no hope for it."The truth is that most absurd ideas ultimately turn out to be just that. However a new book, Pigeon Guided Missiles: and 49 Other Ideas That Never Took Off, by James Moore and Paul Nero, sets out to "rescue some of those incredible concepts, which promised to change our lives", such as:Concrete furnitureBy the time he died, Thomas Edison had amassed 1,093 patents. Keen to develop affordable, long-lasting housing, he hit upon the idea of  concrete homes. Fine. But he also wanted to fill them with concrete pianos and sofas. He did concede that concrete reinforced with steel rods would prove unforgiving, so developed "foam concrete" – an oxymoron that fooled no one.Escape coffinsIn 1868, Franz Vester applied for the first patent of its type – the "improved burial case", featuring a vertical tube running up to the ground. If the body happened to "wake up" it could ascend the provided ladder. There is no known record of a successful deployment.Pigeon-guided missilesDuring the second world war, US behavioural scientist Burrhus Frederic Skinner loaded three pigeons into their own pressurised chambers inside a missile nose cone. Lenses in the missile threw up an image of the target on a glass screen. As they started to peck at it the movement translated into adjustments in the missile's guidance rudders. Using pigeons didn't involve radio signals that could be jammed by the enemy, but government officials remained unconvinced.
When you're searching the internet it's difficult to know who to trust: the Nigerian businessman promising vast riches for a bit of cash up front, or websites that claim to be offering Burberry trench coats at a fraction of their retail price?It is easy to dismiss those examples as obvious tricks, but it can be much harder to pick the right website when faced with a page of search results.Soon Google will be offering a new way to help choose, by telling you which sites gain your favourite celebrities' approval.Christian Oestlien, Google's head of social advertising, said the company will soon allow celebrities to show their endorsement of products associated with them. It is part of the search portal's effort to weed out companies that do not offer legitimate products, and to give celebrities tighter control of their brand.The company is testing the celebrity endorsement feature, which will appear in sponsored ads at the top of Google search pages. "Some advertisers use celebrity endorsement in their ads. This test extends the option of celebrity endorsement to online campaigns," a Google spokesman said. "We're always testing new ways to make advertising more compelling to our users and advertisers."Oestlien told a conference in New York that if, for example, users searched for theKardashian family's Kollection, they would find Khloe Kardashian's endorsement for the clothing line at US department store Sears. Oestlien said Sears had told Google the Kardashians are supporting the department store and its Kardashian line.The celebrity endorsements will be rolled out in the US soon, coming to the UK later. The development is part ofGoogle+, the search engine's drive to bring Facebook-like social data to its search results. Google+ users who like a particular search result are already able to recommend  it to their friends.The development comes as Eric Schmidt, Google's executive chairman, is preparing to face a Washington Senate panel over accusations that the company is bullying smaller rivals.At the hearing before the Senate judiciary committee's antitrust panel on Wednesday, Schmidt will argue that Google's critics are wrong to say it gives preference to its own products. He will argue that Google is just trying to deliver the search results for users.Senator Richard Blumenthal told Reuters: "Concerns have been raised by both regulators and competitors over whether Google has used its dominance of the online and smartphone search markets to impose extra costs on consumers, unfairly preference its own products, or disadvantage competitors through a variety of means, including its search and advertising systems."Google has denied all the allegations.• The headline on this article was amended on Monday 19 September 2011.
Price: £20,695MPG: 53.3Top speed: 124mphIt may be the world's biggest bike race, but at this summer's Tour de France the spotlight fell on the hundreds of cars that made up the convoy – there were 240 Skodas alone – and in particular on one vehicle. Car No 800 is now infamous as the vehicle that attempted to drive past the day's escape on the stage to Saint Flour in the Auvergne. It would have been a classic piece of French overtaking had a tree not got in the way. The driver swerved to avoid it, colliding with Team Sky's Juan Antonio Flecha. He hit the tarmac at 30mph and the Dutchman Johnny Hoogerland flew over him and into a barbed-wire fence. The incident provided the enduring image of the race – not something the organisers were thrilled about. Johnny needed 33 stitches in his legs, but he was fortunate, given that the potential consequences were unthinkable.The convoy of the Tour, a&nbsp;kaleidoscopic chaos of cars and bikes, egos, adrenaline and crisply barked orders on short-wave radio, is the last place you really want to drive. I&nbsp;tried it once, nearly 20 years ago, and it was terrifying. By sheer bad luck, it was on the fastest-ever stage, run off at well over 30mph for 100 miles, and behind the main peloton were numerous groups of cyclists strung across the road to combat a&nbsp;ferocious crosswind. I ended up overtaking the groups one by one. Time after time they'd leave a&nbsp;handy gap, then immediately change direction and close it, cursing – not unreasonably – at any car that might be trying to get through. We survived, and so did they, with no near misses to remember. That's because the whole exercise was one big near miss. I&nbsp;stopped shaking some time later that evening and I've never been back under my own steam.Drivingen courseharks back to the halcyon postwar days of Tour journalism, when bearded French intellectuals would take a few weeks off from discussing Sartre in Left Bank cafés and drive around close to the back of the peloton in open-top 2CVs, swapping quips with Jacques Anquetil and Louison Bobet, and attempting to chat up accordion-playing beauties, all in the quest for "colour".But driving with the Tour now looks set for extinction. That's the only conclusion that could be drawn from the mayhem of this year's race. Whatever happens, the bedlamen coursewould have been no place for the new Ford Mondeo, theObserver's home from home for four weeks on this year's Tour. The Mondeo is everything you'd expect from a&nbsp;modernday eco-efficient diesel: lively enough when pushed, parsimoniously economical when not – thanks in part to a super responsive six-speed gearbox. It was as at home on an autoroute as an Alpine pass.It's an easy drive once you get used to the fact that you don't have an ignition key but a power button – standard on the Titanium version. But it never felt as if it was asking for greater challenges than rolling happily along without pressure. Parking cameras, heated seats and even a&nbsp;misfuelling inhibitor to prevent you putting in petrol rather than diesel: this is a car that does a lot of thinking for you. A four-wheeled comfort zone, but none the worse for that.En courseis not a comfort zone, and is best steered clear of.Bikes at BrooklandsBritish cycle racing comes back to its spiritual home today as Brooklands Museum stages its annual Cycle Festival. Included in the family-friendly action will be penny farthing races on the circuit, ascents of the challenging Test Hill by cycles, Sinclair C5 electric trikes and a "Scootathon" for the younger visitors.Very soon after its completion in June 1907, the motor racing circuit at Brooklands was recognised for its potential as an unobstructed – and legal – venue for cycle racing: at the time, organised cycle racing was banned on the public highway. So, on 8 September of that year the very first British massed-start cycle race took place with around 60 Club and non-Club riders from all over the country competing inThe Weekly Despatch100-Mile Cycle Race.Among the many clubs and societies taking part in this year's celebration of the past, present and future of cycling will be the Veteran Cycle Club, whose riders in period costume will be bringing examples of early machines such as velocipedes, boneshakers and penny farthings. Joining them will be a host of modern-day equivalents from Raleigh Choppers to the latest lightweight racers which will provide a startling contrast to their Victorian ancestors.At 11am, there will be a children's Scootathon. Any child  wishing to take part will gain free entry* to the event provided they bring along their own Scooter and safety helmet.If this wasn't enough there will be a cycle jumble held throughout the day for those elusive spare parts and cycling memorabilia, and the extensive Raleigh Cycle Exhibition - which is a permanent fixture at the Museum – will be open as usual.As on every event day at Brooklands, the Motoring Village, Aircraft Park, London Bus Museum, Sunbeam Café, soft-play area and Museum Shop will all be open, making the usual admission price even better value for money. And, for a small supplement, the excellent Concorde Experience is a virtual must-see that lifts the lid on supersonic travel: booking on arrival for this attraction is recommended as demand will be high on this special day.Admission prices for the Museum are: Adults £10, Seniors £9, Children (5-16 yrs) £5.50, Family ticket (2 adults and up to 3 children) £27.&nbsp; The 'Concorde Experience' is £4 for adults and £2 for children and is advisable to be booked on arrival to avoid disappointment. The main visitor entrance for the Museum is via Mercedes-Benz World, on Brooklands Drive off Wellington Way between Weybridge and Byfleet (brooklandsmuseum.com)
