A couple of years ago, I wrote an Online cover story about "life caching" calledHow to save your life. Two of the people I interviewed for that were Christian Lindholm, who was then at Nokia, and Lyndsay Williams, from the Microsoft Research lab in Cambridge. Lindholm was developing Nokia'sLifeblogfor mobile phones, while Williams had had been working for some time on automatically capturing your life using a SenseCam 4 camera, which you wore round your neck. She called it "a black box data recorder for the human body".NowWayMarkrneatly combines the two ideas. Instead of buying a prototype SenseCam (not available), you just hang a Series 60 phone round your neck.You can also turn your stills into little movies -- another idea that Lyndsay Williams showed several years ago.The account atwe-make-money-not-art.comsays:Once the software is enabled, your phone will continuously take photographs of your events and perspectives. All photographs are sent to a remote server so your phone never runs out of space. You can then login to the Waymarkr web site, annotate and share your photos, seestop motion moviesof your captured event and map out where your images were taken. You can also see other user's photos that were taken at the same time and place as yours.It sounds like fun, but Williams was already researching serious uses. From my article:"We demonstrated the SenseCam to people at Addenbrookes hospital in Cambridge, and they said it would be particularly useful for the partner of somebody who had very bad memory problems," says Williams. "It would also be useful for people who have to take their medicine at certain times and forget to do so: the SenseCam would provide a record."There is a downside, which WMMNA mentions, and that I learned from using Lifeblog: I don't have much of a life. ("Do I really spend that much time in front of the computer?" Yep.)
"RealNetworks Inc today plans to announce a deal with SanDisk Corp to sell a digital music device that's specifically designed to work with RealNetworks' online music service, Rhapsody. The move follows one made by Microsoft Corp, which will release a digital music player of its own design this holiday season that will be closely coupled with its own online music service. Korea's Samsung Electronics Co. is working on a similar plan," saysThe Wall Street Journal.The deals are an effort by Apple competitors to improve technological coordination between online song sellers and digital-device makers. Many consumers have been frustrated by hardware and software glitches when they try to download songs sold by one company onto a gadget made by another. The iTunes Store and iPods, by contrast, have long worked smoothly because they were both designed from the start by one company, Apple, to operate together. "That's something that Apple has played up very well," says Microsoft Vice President Bryan Lee. "One brand, one device, one service."According toPaidContent:The interesting part: RNWK is ditching MSFT's DRM for portable subscription (as MSFT prepares for Zune) and using its own, but only for this particular combination of service. The device would still include Microsoft's DRM, so people could still use it to run other music services besides Rhapsody.Comment: SanDisk now has almost 10% of the US market for digital music players, according to NPD Group figures in the article.
Lucas DeWoody over on the Wii channel at theAdvanced Media Networkhas flagged up one of the potential problems of the digital distribution model: who will own your games once they live on someone else's server?I'm afraid he tells it more concisely than I can, so I'll leave it to DeWoody to tell you all about it:When you buy a video game from a store, that disc is yours. Yes, in Microsoft's mind, that $50 has merely given you the rights to use this piece of software and they retain full rights to its ownership, and those Sony instruction manuals claim that it is explicitly illegal to resell any PlayStation software, no matter what the Better Business Bureau says. Regardless of what Sony, Nintendo, or Microsoft claim, that disc is yours. You can put it in a console or use it as a coaster. Place it on a shelf, or flush it down the toilet. They have no claim on that disc outside of breaking into your house and taking it back. With Virtual Distribution, it's a whole different story altogether.Virtual worlds fanciers have been debating this ownership issue a long time. If you don't believe me, check out the archives atTerra Nova. But now that Digital Distribution is set to become a reality, console gamers are starting to pay attention. DeWoody explains why:Remember Xbox Live Arcade on the original Xbox? Yeah, few do. It was a test, of course, but it was still a premium service that you payed money to access. When the original Live Arcade (or shall I say Live Arcade test beta) service went kaput in favor of the streamlined interface we have on Xbox 360, all your purchases on the original Xbox went with it.Are we in danger of throwing money down the pan?
Joan is just a few years old and very talkative - and now she is officially the world's most human computer program.Yesterday the computer-generated character won the prestigious Loebner prize for artificial intelligence, earning &pound;1,000 and a bronze medal for her British creator Rollo Carpenter, who also won last year with Joan's predecessor, George.Judges at University College London held typed "conversations" with challengers as part of the quest for the unclaimed &pound;50,000 Turing prize, reserved for the first program to fool judges into thinking it is a real person.
"According to an eyewitness report on the Awful Forums, passersby stared aghast or fled crying terrorist, the ThinkPad (which was quoted to be an IBM, not a Lenovo) apparently had a number of death throes as the fire went through various phases, until eventually a United employee busted out the fire extinguisher and laid the laptop to rest," reportsEngadget, with pictures.
Mini Cooper S&pound;17,960Top speed:134mphSeats:4Good for:tiny timsBad for:big berthasEverything is ready: the model's blonde hair is coiffed, her red-nailed fingers are draped along the leather steering wheel; the photographer is perching at the top of his ladder, and the sun has got his hat on for the first time in a week. But there's a hitch. The folding top of the Mini won't open. I give the problem the benefit of a lifetime's mechanical incompetence and turn the engine on and off and on again, and then press the 'roof-open' button very hard with a sort of frantic stabbing action. Nothing. We phone BMW's helpdesk and speak to someone who says she'll speak to the engineers: I imagine a Juergen, say, untested in months, jumping at the chance to offer some advice. After a delay, the helpdesk calls back: 'See the parcel shelf in the boot?Give that a good thump. That should sort it.'Juergen clearly knows his stuff. And this is the language I'm used to. Over the years, all my cars have responded well to a judicious kicking ... But a forecourt-fresh BMW?We rain-lashed Brits love our convertibles. Ten years ago, less than 1 per cent of cars were able to go topless; now it's 4 per cent. Most of this is thanks to the folding-roof technology which enables closed-top saloons to become open-top roadsters in less time than it takes New Labour to sell you a peerage. But, it seems, both procedures are equally fraught with glitches.The Mini, relaunched by BMW in 2001, has now sold 800,000 models in 73 countries - with more bought in Britain than anywhere else. It is, of course, only the spiritual successor to Sir Alec Issigonis's blueprint for the British Motor Corporation of 1959. There are still a few visual cues to its heritage - the drop-down boot, the centrally placed circular speedo, the row of silvery toggle switches. But other than that, it is a different car altogether, and built by robots in Oxford as opposed to grease monkeys in Birmingham. However, though there is little to link it to the past, BMW's Mini still seems to capture so much of the original's DNA - its tenacity, its joie de vivre.The Mini - or MINI, as BMW likes to say - is neat, stocky and agile ... a young Diego Maradona. It's an incredibly likeable car, which nimbly crosses barriers of class and income by appealing to everyone from architects to zebra wranglers (not many jobs beginning with Z are there). And later this year, version three of the Mini will go on sale. It features a subtly changed exterior and minor refinements to both the interior and engine. In other words, more of the same.You don't have to take my word for it. Top Gear magazine, that esteemed organ of all things tarmac-based, each month publishes a guide which rates 2,000 of the cars currently available, and gives them all a score out of 20. Most get around 10. No one scores 20. The highest is 17 (jointly held by Aston Martin's DB9, BMW's M5, Ferrari's F430 and Lamborghini's Murcielago). The Mini scores 16 - and that's despite the dodgy shelf. It's worth noting the average price of the first four is &pound;122,000 - the same as seven Minis.martin.love@observer.co.uk
One of the effects of Google's PageRank system is that, today, all search engines love Wikipedia: it's a link magnet. This means Wikipedia entries often get much higher rankings than original sources, even when they are right and Wikipedia is wrong, whether that's because of a typing mistake or vandalism.Tim Bray has suggested one solution, which is for authoritative sources to make information easier to find. InWikipedia: Resistance is Absent, he shows how much easier it is to find the population of Canadian provinces from Wikipedia than it is from Statistics Canada or government sites. What are your chances of finding, for example,http://www.gov.on.ca/ont/portal/!ut/p/.cmd/cs/.ce/7_ 0_A/.s/7_0_252/_s.7_0_A/7_0_252/_l/en?docid=EC001035?Byron Saltysiak responded with a different idea:Using the Wikipedia machine.The public sector shouldn't try to resist Wikipedia because it's futile; they shouldn't resist because embracing would be much more productive. Instead of wasting time try to fight back with standards and other methods to out compete Wikipedia, groups could just spend their time ensuring that the data is complete and correct in Wikipedia. In a fraction of the time they could fix the data, setup alerts on content changes, and get free hosting to boot.That sounds like a good idea, and the Government of Ontario might do a pretty good job of keeping the Wikipedia pages about Ontario accurate and up to date. The state of California might also do a good job, but how would the pages change following, say, policy changes or election turnovers?Would you like the Chinese government to keep a similar tight watch on its pages, and also correct entries for Falun Gong or whatever? (Perhaps it already does.)This is, of course, why it's frowned on for people to edit Wikipedia entries about them, even if they are plainly wrong. But it doesn't stop a lot of people doing it --including Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales.But there is a third way. You can republish material from Wikipedia, so all Ontario, China, andDanah Boydhave to do is put a Wikipedia button on their home page that takes users totheir (corrected) local copyof the Wikipedia page, rather than the one at Wikipedia. Doesn't matter if the original Wikipedia entry was rapidly reverted: you can say it was a correct copy at the time it was posted.Now you've got a sort of "distributed Wikipedia" that will boost Wikipedia's page rankings even higher, of course. But with luck, many or most users won't go to the original, and even if they do, they probably won't check your version against the latest edits.I'm not being entirely serious, but there is a serious point, which is that Wikipedia is a castle built on sand. There is no view without a point of view, even though Wikipedia is based on the idealistic pretence that there is.Wikipedia deliberately removes the elements of reputation and responsibility on which most authority depends (written by named author who has a Nobel in physics; published in name brand encyclopaedia, and so on), but it's still the view of a small subsection of the planet's population -- mostly, I'd guess, white, middle-class Americans with computer access and, ultimately, Jimmy Wales.This isn't a problem if Wikipedia is viewed correctly as the first step in any research. On that basis, it's fantastic. But if it's viewed as the last word, we're in real trouble.
Engadget gotan interview with J Allard, the man behind both Zune and the Xbox, and tried to pin him down on Plays For Sure. The gist of it is that Plays For Sure is (by Microsoft standards) an open system while Zune is a closed system -- basically it's Microsoft's copy of Apple's iPod model.Plays For Sure promises compatibility between different MP3 players from different manufacturers and music from different libraries, if they all use Microsoft's WMA music format and digital rights management (DRM). In other words, it's an openly-licensed multivendor platform, like Windows.But, Allard says: "Other people just a want a system that's end-to-end -- all compatible out of the gate -- and that's what Zune does. Zune says there is no choice; you get a Zune device, you hook it up to the Zune service, and it just works." In other words, that's essentially a single-vendor-controlled platform, like the Xbox (and like Nintendo and Sony games consoles), and Apple's iPod business. Allard adds:That [compatibility] continues to be the premise for devices that are branded in that category [Plays For Sure], and we think that we've clearly done a lot in that program, where there's a lot of devices out there, there are a lot of services out there, there are a lot of partners, and there are a lot of satisfied customers. We like that program. We've also found that there's a category of customers that say, "Give me a brand experience, advertise it to me on television; I want to be part of the digital music revolution, and that solution [Plays For Sure] doesn't work for me." So they're two complementary solutions -- not everyone's gonna want Zune and not everyone's gonna want Plays For Sure. They're different paths there, and we're okay with both of them.Comment: Allard's right, they are complementaryfor Microsoft. It can afford to try both systems. But they are not complementary for Creative, Samsung, Toshiba, Sony etc, or for Urge, Napster 2 and other music libraries. They are locked out of Zune in just the same way as they are locked out of the iPod/iTunes Music Store business, and therefore now face increased competition from the company that signed them up as partners. I'll be amazed if they don't feel they've been stabbed in the back.Microsoft may be managing things behind the scenes so that these firms are not likely to revolt, because current partners are all potential suppliers. For example, Toshiba might be happy if Zune-badged Gigabeat players sell millions more than Toshiba-badged Gigabeat players. But it's still not an open, competitive market.On the other hand, what choice do they have? If we go by the proprietary games business, there is probably not a market for more than three systems, and Apple already owns one of them. If the other two are Zune, Real Media or Sony's struggling Connect system, that leaves several thousand potential device manufacturers and several dozen potential online music services with nowhere else to go....Well, there are several possibilities. First, everyone could do the really smart thing and abandon the stupidity of DRM. Second, Apple could do the really smart thing and start licensing FairPlay, to create a platform like Windows. Third, everyone else could get together, pool their resources and agree to license a common platform via an industry association, on the model of the DVD Forum.However, the first would require a total reversal of music industry policy, which is currently shameless and greedy enough to sue children for file sharing. eMusic shows it's possible, but it's still unlikely.The second would require Steve Jobs to do a total reversal of his policy of controlling everything as tightly as possible, which may be more likely but don't hold your breath.The third would be a good move but hard to pull off when the major players -- Apple, Sony and Microsoft -- all have proprietary systems. Also, associations have limited powers. For example, the DVD Forum agreed to extend DVD to create HD-DVD, but that didn't stop one of its members, Sony, from trying to take over the market with its own proprietary system.It's still early days, of course. At the moment, you can get most things on CD then rip to an open lossless format such as FLAC, if you want. Nobody really needs to pay higher prices for lower quality, copy protected file downloads from proprietary online music stores. But what happens when all but the most mass market recordings, particularly of jazz and classical concerts, are never issued on CD in the first place?
Nintendo held its Wii press conference in the UK yesterday,as mentioned below, and the high price disappointed fans.On our Gamesblog, Greg Howsoncomplained that "a glitzy press conference, complete with Henman and Rusedski tennis cameo, couldn't hide the fact that the Wii is overpriced in Europe. £179 takes the console away from impulse purchase territory and when you consider the US and Japanese prices it is a slap in the face for European consumers."I've already noted that the Wii is overpriced in the US, too -- but the US price translates to £132 (which would be £155 including VAT) while the price in Japan translates to £113. UK buyers are no longer shocked at being overcharged, but come on guys, how did you manage to inflate what should be a £150 machine to £180?Yes, the Wii will be in short supply when it's launched, and yes, Nintendo fans will happily pay more, as sales on eBay will no doubt demonstrate. But that argument applies in all three territories, not just in the UK. So how do you justify the UK's 60% price hike over the Japanese version? It's not all VAT.There's no doubt that the Wii is a killer product for people who want to play Nintendo's fabulous back catalogue, but I thought the idea was to bring in newbies and broaden gaming's appeal.For another £20, would-be Wii buyers can have a next-generation console that does high-def graphics and plays DVDs (among other things), in the form of an Xbox 360 Core system.Remember the GameCube? That was supposed to sell at £150, like the Wii. However, Nintendo dropped the UK price to £129 before it was even launched, and the last time I saw any on my local high street, they were being knocked out at £45. And still nobody wanted them.It will be a great shame if the Wii is deja vu all over again.Update: Joystiq has more info atThe only Wii post you'll ever need
The maker of one of the world's most popular toys has turned on critics who have labelled him a fake.Since he invented RoboSapien four years ago, Mark Tilden has been criticised by several technologists for what they say are unnecessary boasts. One columnist, Lance Ulanoff, questioned whether his creations were robots at all. But Mr Tilden claims he has been ostracised because he "dared to do something fun"."A lot of people don't like the idea that robots can be fun," he told the Guardian. "You have to realise that some of these robots are very expensive - in Japan they can cost $5m (&pound;2.6m) ... and a lot of them don't like me because I build robots that do things like fart."Mr Tilden's early career included work for space agency Nasa and time as a researcher at the US government's research base at Los Alamos in New Mexico, where the atomic bomb was developed. But he says he has drawn criticism from some in the field of robotics since deciding to trade in research work in favour of building RoboSapien, which has sold more than 50m units since its launch in 2004.Critics have said his creations are automatons rather than artificially intelligent designs, but Mr Tilden claims he has annoyed the scientific fraternity by succeeding with inexpensive technology."When I was a scientist all you did was get to build one, maybe two robots; in the toy industry you get a buck to build a million, but if they're successful they really fly," he said. "My whole goal in life was to kickstart robotics out of the imagination and into the real world."This is much more satisfying: impressing scientists is easy. Impressing a seven-year-old boy? That's hard. Twenty-first century children are a lot more sophisticated."The latest version of RoboSapien, known as the RS Media, is likely to be one of the most popular toys this Christmas. This time around, the walking, talking robot has a wide range of multimedia capabilities, including a camera, music player and the ability to connect to computers. Dave Pope, buying manager for Hamley's, said the RoboSapien technology "puts it light years ahead of anything else".Mr Tilden believes the new toy, which will cost around &pound;300, could not only encourage more children into science and engineering, but also herald a real breakthrough. "Robots now are exactly where airplanes and cars were 100 years ago," he said. "But now we're crossing the boundary between entertainment robot and something that is functionally practical."Mr Tilden is aware that many people are cynical after many decades of hi-tech promises. "But it's much more believable than before," he said. "In the new RoboSapien you're looking at a machine that has more functions than Darth Vader's underpants. Soon we will have the elusive home robot that comes out of a closet when you go to work, cleans your home, does the washing and then puts itself away before you come back."
PS3, WII ConsoleWhen it launched Xbox 360, Microsoft made much of the fact that Europe (traditionally the poor cousin in release schedules, with consoles and games arriving long after those in North America and Japan) would get its new console at the same time as other territories. When Sony said the same thing about PS3, it started to feel like the beginning of a new era of parity and equality. Cynics everywhere will be relieved to have their views reaffirmed, with news that Sony has elected to maintain its November launch dates for PS3 in the US and Japan, while letting Europe slide to March 2007. On the plus side, it ought to mean we get a launch lineup featuring more than just Ridge Racer, but at the expense of being last in line yet again. Also, if rumours are to be believed, games trade paper MCV reported that Nintendo may be planning to release their neophyte-friendly Wii console here on November 20 - possibly at a bargain basement launch price of &pound;149.Ultimate Ghosts 'n Goblins PSPBased on the venerable Ghouls 'n Ghosts franchise, Ultimate Ghosts 'n Goblins sees the return of King Arthur for a fourth tour of duty among the cartoon undead. Starting with an upgradeable suit of armour, which gradually strips down to just Arthur's boxer shorts after successive woundings, you march left to right across the screen while firing lances, fiery potions, axes and a selection of magical power-ups at the horde of assailants constantly converging on your position. Don't be fooled by the game's cutesy looks, because Ultimate Ghosts 'n Goblins has a heart of cold granite, dealing ruthlessly with all but the most persistent and constantly taunting you to select Novice difficulty. Like Maximo before it, this pays dividends only to those prepared to challenge its defiantly old-school learning curve.&#183;Capcom, &pound;30B-Boy PS2 &amp; PSPB-Boy is an urban-styled game that somehow manages to conduct itself without any overt violence or even reference to firearms. For this it should be saluted, and for providing a rhythm action game with an excuse to dust off some extremely listenable 1980s and 90s hip-hop. Taking turns with the computer, each "throwdown" (in other words, round) gives B-boys and girls just under a minute to string together their best moves from the four main food groups of Toprock, Sixstep, Windmill and Freeze, giving you a chance to admire the elegance of the game's motion-capture. Unfortunately, you'll also have more than enough time to lament the futility of its structure - watching the CPU cut shapes is neither fun nor interesting and the game's slight repertoire of interactions makes it feel more like a mini-game than a standalone title.&#183;Sony, PS2 &pound;30; PSP &pound;35, reviewed on PSP
"George, who is 39, single and light-hearted, is looking for friends on the Internet. He has gifts -- the ability to speak in 40 languages and with 2,000 people at the same time," reportsAFP. "And one quirk: he doesn't really exist."George is a chatbot atwww.jabberwacky.comand "and he's recently received the Loebner prize in Britain," says AFP. Well, it wasa year ago, but who's counting?
MondayPS3 production newsTuesdaySome mobile games to tryBAFTA nominees announcediPod goes gamesWednesdayBreakout of work tediumState of Play conferenceDS does VoIPcasual gamers and relaxationThursdayOff to OzWii launch detailsTechnology todayEuro WiiAmerican WiiFridayWii hardware is profitable and region-freeAchievement: the appeal of gaming?I declare GRAWWii UKWii today
"Universal Music Group CEO Doug Morris said the wildly popular Web sites YouTube and MySpace are violating copyright laws by allowing users to post music videos and other content involving Universal artists," reportsAssociated Press."We believe these new businesses are copyright infringers and owe us tens of millions of dollars," Morris told investors Wednesday at a conference in Pasadena."How we deal with these companies will be revealed shortly," he said.Comment: For a list of Universal's artists, seehere.
A glitzy press conference, complete with Henman and Rusedski tennis cameo, couldn't hide the fact that the Wii is overpriced in Europe. £179 takes the console away from impulse purchase territory and when you consider the US and Japanese prices it is a slap in the face for European consumers. Which is a shame as an initial play on some of the launch titles - Super Mario Galaxy, Wii Golf and Bowling, Zelda and Tony Hawks - confirms the Wii as a hugely promising machine. Galaxy in particular was a highlight with a genuinely beautiful look and feel but the sports games too had enough subtlety to suggest they will last longer than you may expect. Sadly the Zelda demo still didn't convince me - the twitchy controls detracting rather than drawing me into my most anticipated game of the year. Let's hope it feels different in December.Despite these niggles and the high price the Wii remains hugely appealing. Your gran may remain unconverted but sceptical partners should certainly be tempted to play Wii Sports etc. Assuming you don't mind stumping up a little more than you may have expected to buy at launch, of course.
Just in case you have limited internet access today - December 8th 2006. £179. There will be 20+ games at launch and each console will come with Wii Sports as in other territories. Games will retail at around GBP34-39. A Wii remote and Nunchuk are bundled with the console, but extra remotes are 39 Euros (GBP29 in UK), while nunchuks are 19 Euros (GBP14 in UK). The Classic Controller goes for 19 Euros (G14 in UK).Here'sthe press release.More from Greg later no doubt...
It's slick, easy to use and, most of all, ridiculously cheap. But anti-piracy groups are hoping a new law that took effect this month, and increasing pressure from the US, will finally shut down Allofmp3.com, a notorious Russian website that has become the second-most popular destination for music downloaders in the UK.Allofmp3 offers song downloads for as little as 5p and is currently selling Bob Dylan's Modern Times, for &#163;1.33. This year the site surpassed Napster to become Britain's second-most popular music download site after iTunes, according to IXN, a data research company.Industry representatives say Allofmp3 can only sell music so cheaply because it is not paying royalties to recording companies or artists."Allofmp3.com are the most arrogant and aggressive copyright violators that we know of," said Igor Pozhitkov, the Russian director of the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry, a group that represents recording giants such as Universal, Sony, Warner and EMI.In July, the British Phonographic Institute won a court ruling allowing it to sue Allofmp3 in the British High Court, but it remains unclear how any UK ruling would be enforced in Russia.The new Russian law, which was passed two years ago but only took effect on September 1, gives works distributed on the internet the same protections as those published in traditional formats.Two previous criminal cases brought against directors of Allofmp3 have languished in the Russian courts and Mr Pozhitkov said he hopes the new law means "law enforcement agencies can finally start doing something".Allofmp3 insists it is legal and says it has nothing to fear from the new law. The site says it is licensed by and pays royalties to the Russian Organization for Multimedia and Digital Systems, or ROMS, which, under a loophole in Russian law, claims it is allowed to hand out distribution rights on behalf of copyright holders without their permission.Allofmp3 also says it cannot be held accountable for actions that may be illegal in other countries. "What we're doing may not be 100% up to Western business ethics, but no one has ever proven that we are operating illegally," said Ilya Levitov, a spokesman for MediaServices, the company that own and runs Allofmp3.com.But pressure is building to crack down on the site, with US trade negotiators calling it a key issue in Russia's bid for membership in the World Trade Organization. Russia hopes to conclude WTO talks with the US, the last major country whose approval it needs to join the global trade group, by the end of the year."We have made clear to Russia that improved protection for intellectual property is critical to its joining the WTO and we have specifically raised our concerns with Allofmp3.com," deputy US trade representative Karan Bhatia said earlier this month.
Brown is the new white, according to Microsoft which last night revealed its answer to the iPod and surprised industry watchers with its choice of colours. Alongside white and black versions of the Zune player, which make it look similar to Apple's iPod, it will be available in brown.As well as a 30GB memory that can store 7,500 songs or 40 hours of video, it includes an FM radio and built-in wireless technology that allows music sharing with other Zune users. The company also gave notice of a Zune phone.Microsoft is setting up a digital music store - Zune Marketplace - it hopes will become a competitor to iTunes. Microsoft would only say Zune will be "available this holiday season in the United States", which does not bode well for European consumers.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Right, I had to back out of last week's GRAW session, but this Monday it'sdefinitelyon. If you fancy playing Ubisoft's masterful Xbox 360 shooter against other Gamesblog readers and myself, come online from 7.50pm and send me a friend request (I'm keefer71). If you're already on my friends list, just send me a message to say you're online and ready for action - I'll then invite you in. This will be basic GRAW so you don't need the additional download.Just to get an idea of initial interest, can you post a comment below if you want to play?
In a recentarticleabout the globalWorld of Warcraftphenomenon in US newsrag Newsweek, one of the interviewees said something that I think is quite telling about the reasons why we play computer games."Ninety percent of what I do is never finished--parenting, teaching, doing the laundry," says Elizabeth Lawley (Level 60, Troll Priest), a Rochester, N.Y., college professor. "In WOW, I can cross things off a list--I've finished a quest, I've reached a new level."More than any other form of entertainment (not including sport, which is arguably another form), computer games challenge players to set themselves targets and to actively work to achieve them. And speaking as a gamer, there is nothing quite as satisfying as, like Lawley says above, reaching those goals. There's a sense of simple accomplishment, of control in a world that is utterly uncontrollable, that keeps me coming back for more.So is that ultimately what games are all about? According toChrisCrawford, veteran game designer, they are aboutdoing.RichardBartle, co-founder of the progenitor to online games, suggests that there's more to it than that. As well as achieving, games for some are about exploring, socialising and killing. His famous "Bartle Types" may be more relevant to the virtual worlds like Warcraft andEverquest, but increasingly other game designers are incorporating highly non-linear sandbox-styles with an emphasis on multiplayer cooperation and collaboration. Are we in danger of diluting what gaming is all about?Those titles which are making the most inroads towards expanding the audience have very few bells and whistles; Brain Training, for example, is a quiz game which challenges gamers to achieve a goal of a "brain age" of 20.Bejeweled, a casual game available in a browser, is a puzzler which sets targets for players to reach.But suggesting that the reason we game is because we feel the need to achieve something in lives which lack targets we can reasonably reach problematises computer gaming, and the last thing we want to do is have non-gamers point fingers at us in pity, or even - dare I say it - argue that the reason we aren't effective in "real life" is because we're too busy playing games. I achieve quite a lot of things, but I still get a kick out of getting to the next level.So what is it about games for you? Is it the achievement or is it something more?
Just as we've all suspected, itturns outNintendowillmake a profit on every Wii unit sold - unlike Microsoft and Sony whose model is to lose money on the hardware, but make it up on software. NoA president Reggie Fils-Aime told Reuters, "We are a company that competes only in the interactive entertainment space so we have to make a profit on every thing we do".That explains the hefty 60 dollar charge for additional controllers...And yes,according to Chris Kohlerof Wired, Wii games will be region-free. Are there any videogame industry tenets that Nintendoisn'tdetermined to shatter?
Just to add to Greg's post below, the US launch of Wii has been confirmed as November 19 with a pricepoint of USD249.99. At the big press conference in New York, NoA president, Reggie Fils-Aime, told the gathered journalists that the company plans to ship four million Wii consoles before the end of the year, most of them in the States. I wonder how many will be set aside for us Europeans?Games will retail for USD49.99 (GBP26.50) - around 15 will be available at launch, with 15 more in the following weeks. Metroid Prime 3 will apparently not be out until 2007.As for the Virtual Console, NES games will go for USD5, SNES classics at USD8 and N64 gems at USD10. One slight concern - extra controllers will cost USD39.99, with nunchuks at a further USD19.99. That's a lot of cash to play against a pal.Anyway, Nintendo has also revealed details of its previously rumoured Wii Channel concept..."The Wii Channel Menu is the starting point for all of the console's functions. The "channels" offer a gateway to a rich variety of entertainment options. When connected to a TV, the Wii Channel Menu offers a simple interface, letting users pick games to play, get news or weather, view and send photos or even create playable caricatures of themselves to use in actual games. Additional functions allow users to redeem Wii Points and download classic games to Wii's Virtual Console. The variety of options available through the Wii Channel Menu motivates both gamers and non-gamers to turn on Wii's power every day."So you've got a TV remote control, TV channels... you can see what they're doing.The official press release ishere.
Nintendo will be announcing the Wii launch details for Europe tomorrow (Fri 15th) and I'll be joining the throng down in London's Docklands. Chances are the story will leak tomorrow morning (it may have done by the time you read this) but until then I'd recommend saving around 150 quid and provisionally booking Nov 24th off work. The event runs from 12-6pm so there should be plenty of time to get some hands-on. I'll post my impressions up over the next few days but if you've got anything specific you want to know then post in the comments and I'll see what I can find out when I'm there. But let's face it, you're going to buy a Wii anyway, right?
It seems to be what was leaked -- a Toshiba Gigabeat with widescreen and Wi-Fi -- butthe announcementisn't a product launch. Zune will be "available this holiday season in the United States". The press release says:Zune includes a 30GB digital media player, the Zune Marketplace music service and a foundation for an online community that will enable music fans to discover new music. The Zune device features wireless technology, a built-in FM tuner and a bright, 3-inch screen that allows users to not only show off music, pictures and video, but also to customize the experience with personal pictures or themes to truly make the device their own. Zune comes in three colors: black, brown and white.Every Zune device creates an opportunity for connection. Wireless Zune-to-Zune sharing lets consumers spontaneously share full-length sample tracks of select songs, homemade recordings, playlists or pictures with friends between Zune devices. Listen to the full track of any song you receive up to three times over three days. If you like a song you hear and want to buy it, you can flag it right on your device and easily purchase it from the Zune Marketplace.Also,paidcontentnotes: "The players will be pre-loaded with content -- music and videos -- from DTS, EMI Music's Astralwerks Records and Virgin Records, Ninja Tune, Playlouderecordings, Quango Music Group, Sub Pop Records, and V2/Artemis Records."Good news includes support for H.264 video, MP3 and AAC, as well as WMA, WMV and MPEG-4. iPod users will presumably be able to move AAC and H.264 files over, somehow, if there's a way round Apple's DRM. (Update: of course, as Arbuthnotite correctly points out in a comment, there is no DRM on CDs if you rip them yourself.)Wireless Zune-to-Zune sharing looks like the hot feature. There's an accessory AV cable for plugging Zune into a TV set, and Zune Marketplace, which is presumably modelled on Xbox Live. (Xbox and Zune are from the same Microsoft team.)Here are somevideo clips.TheZune blognotes that Microsoft gave previews to some music bloggers from Stereogum, Coolfer.com, My Old Kentucky Blog, Scenestars, Tiny Mix Tapes, Music For Robots and 3Hive so you can get an independent view: links onZune Inside.Comment: The future's bright, the future's brown? BROWN????Afterthought: Microsoft could have timed the Zune announcement a couple of days earlier and pre-empted Apple. It didn't -- but waiting wouldn't have looked too smart if Steve Jobs had announced an iPod with a bigger screen, built-in Wi-Fi and FM radio...Update: As requested by prozac in a comment (thanks!), I've corrected an error in the headline, which orginally included the word "widescreen". The Zune screen is noticeably larger than an iPod screen but hasthe same 4:3 aspect ratio. My apologies for the mistake....
Nintendo of America President Reggie Fils-Aime -- Photo: EngadgetEngadget went to the Nintendo press conferenceat 9.00am in New York and got some numbers. According to Reggie: "MSRP: $249. One price, one config, one color: white. This simplicity allows us to maximize volume throughout the Americas. Our shipment goal worldwide is 4M consoles during the 43 days between launch [November 19] and Dec 31. The Americas will receive the largest share, a continuous flow of units."Nintendo will start with 30 games at $49.99.The launch in Japan will be on December 2, at 25,000 yen.The European announcement is tomorrow (Friday 15) at noon in Docklands, andGamesblog's Greg Howsonwill be there....Comment: It looks as though Nintendo intends to bury Sony's PlayStation 3 in the US, leaving it trailing in a distant third place. (No blue laser diodes: no PlayStation 3s.) But if it steamrollers the US market with "a continuous flow of units," there probably won't be much left for Europe and Japan.$250 is $50 more than a Wii is worth -- it's basically a souped-up GameCube -- but if it's in short supply, why not pocket the cash while it's going?
"Apparently, every copy of Mac OS X comes with a Cognitive Dissonance add-in. This feature allows Mac cultists to loudly accuse Microsoft of ripping off features when it's convenient, and to blindly miss the ripoffs that go the other way," reckonsZD Net's Ed Bott.Well, Steve Jobs's presentation on Tuesday filled a lot of Windows users with feelings of deja vu. As Bott points out, "Apple's new Cover Flow interface" looks a lot like what Windows Media Center has had for four years, and the WMP interface in Vista. (Actually, Windows Explorer did browse by album cover or artist even before that. In any case,CoverFlowis just a third party application that Apple bought in.)And as I pointed out yesterday, the iTV looks like an old Windows Media Extender. Bott says:I have three Media Center extenders in this house, two first-generation models and an Xbox 360. On any of these extenders, I can play my entire music collection (browsing it by album cover) through my home theater system using a wired or wireless connection to my Media Center computer. But unlike Apple's device (which won't be available until January 2007) the Xbox 360 also streams live or recorded TV and downloaded high-definition content. It plays games and DVDs in full 5.1 surround sound. And in January, when Vista ships, I'll be able to get a CableCARD-equipped Media Center that will stream HDTV programs over the network to my Xbox 360 with no extra charges.So, will someone please tell me why I want to replace my Xbox 360 with an Apple-branded device that only plays tunes from one music store, allows me to pay $15 for a movie encoded at 640 by 480 that looks like crap on my widescreen HDTV, and is unable to record or stream TV programming?Similarly, former Microsoft geek blogger Robert Scoble asksIs Apple copying Microsoft?, and compares one of hisUI videoswithJobs's presentation.Another of Jobs's slides showing how Apple was in the den, in the car etc and the whole strategy sounded just like one of Bill Gates's old Comdex speeches. (Anyone still rememberWindows Automotive?)This comes afterApple has paid Creative $100mfor copying elements of its patented interface, and other accusations of copying concerning Spotlight, Dashboard, Time Machine (see Roxio's GoBack 3), and Front Row. (Note: I'm making no comment on whether the accusations are correct, only that they have been made.)Now, in a rational world, nobody would care about all this -- it benefits everybody if companies learn from one another, and the whole free software movement encourages it. (Firefox supporters can say things like: "Hey, Microsoft ripped that off from us ... and we ripped it off from Opera!") But there are two problems here. The first is Apple's marketing, along the lines of "Redmond, start your photocopiers". It's childish, stupid, and makes Jobs look like a jerk ... but then you run into the second problem: Jobs is playing to a crowd of vocal Mac users who also behave, en masse, like jerks.Perhaps the old sloganIntel Inside, Idiot Outsidewasn't an observation but a prediction.The zealots are, obviously, a tiny minority. Almost all Mac users are intelligent, good looking, and havemuch better dress sensethan the jerk in Apple's TV ads, played by talented actor Justin Long (OK,Ellen Feisswas worse). But they can seem almost invisible. Browse some of the talkboards or comments on sites such as CNet and ZD Net, and it's hard not to get the impression that Mac users are, at best, somewhat unhinged.Like other zealots, they presumably think they are being helpful in trying to convert people to "the one true cause". But actually, it tends to put people off.In some cases, this Macidolatry is helping Linux, particularly Ubuntu. In July, Bryan O'Bryan posted something about Why I ditched my Mac for Linux (inGoogle's cache) where his number 1 reason for defecting was "The Mac Community".O'Bryan says: "It has been my experience that the Mac 'community' (ie, the most vocal and active of the Macintosh enthusiast and power users) tend to be incredibly negative and expect much more than they deserve." Other software houses agree, he says: "they don't act like users of other platforms when they get upset. They get... mean. Personal attacks. Outrageous demands."He was struck by the difference when he started "co-hosting aLinux-centered podcastrecently. Myself and the other host are amateurs. We are learning as we go. And what was the response? Overwhelmingly positive. Heck, even the criticism we received was good natured and constructive (unlike what we received when attempting to run a Mac free website)."Of course, there's another side to the story, and every system has its share of zealots. As one of the comments to O'Bryan's post said: "Look, I'm the lead developer of a high profile OSS project and your moment of 'grass-is-greener'-itis is just hilarious."But Linus Torvalds sets a different tone to Steve Jobs, and there is an even more fundamental difference with Ubuntu. Ubuntu comes with aCode of Conductthat says:Ubuntu is an African concept of "humanity towards others". It's "the belief in a universal bond of sharing that connects all humanity".and goes on to quote Archbishop Desmond Tutu's No Future Without Forgiveness.Ubuntu's Code says you must be considerate, respectful and collaborative, among other things.Nobody thinks this is going to wipe out OS zealotry overnight. But still, it gives a lead from the top that's different from the one that comes from Steve Jobs's keynotes and Apple's advertising, and that has been a long running sore sinceEvangeList.Even if Apple has never ever copied anything before, Ubuntu's code of conduct would be a good place to start.
I missed this one earlier in the week but still think it's worth noting: a very strange article over onValleyWag, which claimed to "expose" thetruth about MySpace.With lots of big build up ("the article News Corp didn't want you to see" etc), it comes down to a lot of feigned shock about how MySpace isn't the huge love-in that nobody thought it was. Underneath it all there's one serious contention - that its creators, Intermix, have some dubious connections with spammers - but even that seems to confuse spam with online marketing, and gets caught up in silly assertions like this:"The whole site is, in essence, a marketing tool that everyone who registers has access to. Users constantly receive spam-like messages from said bands, business, and individuals looking to add more "friends" (and therefore more potential fans, consumers, or witnesses) to their online identity. A testament to this strange new social paradigm is the phrase "Thanks for the Add," a nicety offered when one MySpace user "adds" another as a "friend."No WAY! Apparently it's news that many people - including the makers of social networks - see social networking as a form of marketing.It gets even worse (apparently MySpace, like, COPIED Friendster), and the author, 19-year-old Trent Lapinski, does an admirable job of cranking up the shock factor. But even Nick Denton - Valleywag's uberboss -called it out, pleading "Please, enough of the manufactured outrage". Thankfully it doesn't seem to have been picked up by many outlets... yet.
Technology Guardian: How did the Slingbox come about?Blake Krikorian:We were big San Francisco Giants fans and simply wanted to watch our team's games while were in the office or on the road, and there was no simple way of doing that.We looked around at internet and mobile services and found that the vast majority of them are charging us additional monthly fees. Most of us have subscription fatigue already because we are already paying quite a bit for our Sky or Comcast or whatever home cable, and most of these internet services don't actually offer you what you're looking for or equate to what your home TV programming is like.The TV in your family room is what you've learned to expect. We wanted to be able to watch our home TV on whatever particular display I happen to be sitting in front of, whether it's my laptop or my mobile phone.TG: So how does it actually work?BK:The Slingbox is a small box shaped like an oversized chocolate bar, available on the high street now in the UK. There is no monthly fee and you put this box in your home, connected to your Sky+ box or your NTL cable box. It takes in the TV signal and redirects it out over the internet via an Ethernet or home wireless connection to a PC or mobile phone on which you've downloaded the Slingplayer software. It gives you full control of your TV experience on whatever display you happen to be at.We launched in the beginning of July last year in the USA. In the first six months, we sold over 100,000 units.TG: You launched in the UK at the end of May; what's different here?BK:There is only one piece of silicon inside the Europe Slingbox that is similar to the US version. It's a PAL box, but we have also inserted a DVB-T (DTT) tuner. So all you have to do is add an aerial and you can sling your Freeview channels and/or connect it to your Sky or cable box and sling those channels as well.There is no doubt Slingbox will sell in the tens of thousands of units this year in the UK. Whether we get over a hundred thousand, we'll see.TG: How do you think the wireless home will develop and how will Slingbox fit into it?BK:Over 40% of the usage of the Slingbox today is around the home. Many people are getting laptops and they are just slinging their television from the living room to another room in the house. It's like a wireless television. The other thing people like to do is sling their Sky+ programming around the house. This is one of the things my wife likes to do. She might start watching a show in the family room, but then move with her laptop up to her office and continue to watch the show.Right now we distribute over the home wireless broadband network to a laptop or mobile phone. What we don't do right now is sling to another TV set, but we've had a lot of requests for a mini-Sling receiver that could just plug into the other TV sets in the house.TG: Are there more devices that you'll be slinging to in the future? I'm thinking of an Archos, a video iPod or other PDAs.BK:There are numerous companies showing us their new media-playing type of products that have connectivity in them. A Slingplayer on these devices could quite possibly be the killer app.TG: You've started as a hardware company selling the Slingbox, but recently you've signed a deal to put your software into somebody else's box - is this the future roadmap? And, if so, when will we see your software in a Sky box?BK:Slingbox is a product where it starts to make sense to get TV and high-speed data from one place.Our product means you can get your TV anywhere. If these operators get into a mobile space as well - like NTL has in the UK - this notion of fixed mobile convergence starts to make sense. So what you're going to see from us is partnership deals with pay TV companies and we've signed the first one with TVA in Brazil, a large cable TV company, and we've also signed a deal with Viasat in Sweden and the Nordic countries, a major satellite TV company. Viasat is marketing the Slingbox under its brand of Viasat Everywhere. In the mobile space, we haven't announced anything yet, but I think you'll see us doing deals outside the US first.TG: So the idea is world domination ...BK:Yes, we will support every device we possibly can [laughs]. Right now we support Windows and we're releasing the beta of the Mac client this week for the Slingplayer worldwide. We've also released the Windows Mobile Smartphone and Windows Mobile Pocket PC phone. Before the end of the year, we'll support additional platforms - there'll be at least two more OSs, so that means a whole bunch more operating devices.TG: So what's to stop a Sony or a Dell or Sky from replicating the Sling technology?BK:The real core piece of technology that we've created is called Slingstream. People watch our video and say: "Wow! How is it so smooth? There isn't a lot of rebuffering that I'm used to seeing with internet video." Our technology dynamically adjusts behind the scenes to whatever type of device it's streaming to - regardless of the rendering capability - depending on what type of content and what kind of network it's going over and what network conditions there are. When you think about streaming video over IP, think of it as a pipe constantly expanding and contracting, wreaking havoc on traditional internet video. Our software detects all this and adjusts dynamically and the video stays smooth.TG: Can you protect that technology?BK:Oh, definitely. Of course, there is always a danger in this space of being dis-intermediated.Could a Slingbox be a feature in a cable box or a satellite box? Sure. But, on the other hand, could a cable or a satellite box become a feature in a Slingbox? Well, we are already that kind of box, we just don't have decryption software. I look at how best to deliver this technology to the consumer and if there are other partners who need to do that, we should work with them and our business model could very well change.TG: So what if people sue you for taking their content beyond where they originally sold the subscription? For example, if you have a Sky+ subscription in the UK, but you sling the programme to Cairo where you've gone for business.BK:I say two things: we haven't been sued yet, and we're giving the consumer the ability to watch the programme that they've already paid for wherever they happen to be. Just like you run a scart cable from your set-top box to your TV in your house, we are giving the consumer a virtual scart cable that they can run 10 feet, 10 miles or 10,000 miles. So what's the harm?TG: What about people taking the content and mashing and mixing it or sending it to their friends?BK:You can't do that with Slingbox - it is only permitted to stream to one device at a time. It can be frustrating for me personally if I'm travelling and I go to log in, and my wife on the laptop in my house is watching it already. So I've just added a new feature into the last build of Slingbox called the "Cathy feature", named after my wife. Basically, you now have an administrator password and that means you can kick off somebody else who is on it. My wife doesn't know about this feature yet, so she'll call me sometimes and ask why the Slingbox isn't working [laughs]. Seriously, the one-to-one feature is very important. It's also one device at a time. I can't watch both on my work PC and my phone at the same time. You can never say that something is 100% hack-proof because nothing on the planet is, but no one has hacked it so far. The messaging between the client device and the Slingbox is all encrypted. The thing that the content companies are most worried about is that people will share with 1,000 of their closest friends at one time, and that we don't do.&#183;The full text of this interview is on the Technology blog at blogs.guardian.co.uk/technologyCurriculum vitaeAge39FamilyMarried to wife Cathy and has two girls, aged 5 and 8EducationBachelor's degree in mechanical engineering from UCLAInterestsPassionate about baseball and likes playing videogamesCareer1993:General Magic1994:Philips Mobile Computing, after which he joined Metis Associates, and helped create Mainbrace Corp2004:Co-founded Sling Media&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Sony's announcement last week of delays to the PlayStation 3 (PS3) in Europe was blamed solely on the difficulties in making one component: the blue laser diode for the built-in Blu-ray player.Mass production of blue laser diodes is tricky. Light-emitting diode (LED) maker Nichia, which currently makes 80% of the global blue laser diode supply, reported that its yield rate for blue laser diodes has reached 30% - still behind demand.Blue light's shorter wavelength means it can be focused on smaller objects. Optical discs such as CDs and DVDs have a spiral track of "pits"; each pit represents a digital bit. The more pits per disc, the more data. A CD (read with red laser light) has pits 0.5 microns wide; in Blu-ray and HD-DVD discs, the pits are 0.25 microns wide, and the tracks only a quarter as wide as on a CD. Only blue lasers can resolve those. Hence a double-layer hi-def DVD can store up to 50GB, but a single-layer CD only manages 0.74GB. But first, make your blue light diode (either a laser, which includes a mirror to amplify one particular frequency of generated light, or an LED, which generates a range of similar frequencies all at once). That's the problem.But one man knows how to solve it. "The problem of yields [in producing blue laser diodes] is to do with the substrate used to grow the semiconductor material," says Professor Shuji Nakamura. And he should know: he's the inventor of blue, green and white LEDs, and the blue laser diode. He made these breakthroughs in the 1990s while an engineer at Nichia and was last week awarded the 2006 Millennium Technology Prize.Blue LEDs and laser diodes consist of two thin layers of the semiconductor gallium nitride (GaN), with a layer of indium sandwiched in between. By adding different impurities, the two layers of GaN crystals are given slightly different properties: one layer (the n-type) conducts electrons, and the other (the p-type) contains positively charged "holes" as a result of electrons being soaked up by the added impurities.The electrons in the n-type material can cross the junction and fall into the holes in the p-type equivalent. When this happens, the electron loses some energy. The lost energy is given off as a photon of light; its colour depends on how much energy is lost. As with all thin films of semiconductors, you need a good substrate to grow those crystal wafers on - one in which the spacing between atoms in the film matches that in the substrate material underneath. "At the moment, 'free-standing' gallium nitride layers are used as the substrate for growing GaN semiconductors," explained Nakamura. "And that's why the yield is not good."A 'free-standing' GaN layer refers to a thin sheet of non-crystal GaN. It is deposited onto another substrate (for example, sapphire), and is then peeled off to act as the working surface for growing GaN semiconductor devices. This is cheaper and easier than using bulk crystals, but suffers from structural imperfections that can affect yield."The solution is to use bulk gallium nitride crystals instead," says Nakamura. Bulk silicon crystals form the substrate for conventional semiconductor devices. Single crystals are the ideal starting material, with perfect structural features. "This could improve the yield by 10-20 times," Nakamura says.However, growing single GaN crystals is difficult; producing them in bulk is trickier still. They are prone to defects, which was why, until Nakamura's breakthrough, GaN had for decades been an outsider in the race for blue light. Despite Nichia and Sony having cross-licensed their patents to speed development of blue diodes in April 2004, neither has cracked the problem of pushing yields up.Meanwhile, one of Nakamura's research interests is to develop techniques to produce bulk GaN crystals. While the commercial suppliers of blue laser diodes try to improve the yields, Nakamura might once again rise to win the race.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Google Earth has teamed up with the United Nations to allow users to monitor global environmental crisis zones.The website, which allows users to zoom in on any location on a satellite-based, colour, 3D depiction of the planet, will "overlay" information from partners on to its geographical images.A tie-up with the United Nations Environmental Program will allow users to see images illustrating the world's most extreme areas of environmental degradation.It will offer "before-and-after" imagery spanning the last 30 years of environmental disasters, including the deforestation of the Amazon.Separately, a partnership with Discovery Networks, owner of the Discovery Channel, will allow people to take a virtual world holiday tour.Users will see an icon appear on major tourist attractions and cities around the world and will be able to click to see Discovery video segments and information on each place.Other partners in the new programme - which Google is calling "featured content" - include the National Park Service representing 58 US parks and wildlife centre the Jane Goodall Institute.Visitors to Goodall's Gombe reserve in Africa can keep up to date, via Google Earth, with its "geo blog", which monitors chimpanzees and deforestation in Africa.Earlier this month, Google appeared in its first European TV advertising campaign in a deal with British Airways to promote a new destination-viewing service using Google Earth technology.The ad, created by BA's agency Bartle Bogle Hegarty, marked a major departure by the internet giant, which has famously built its popularity without resorting to traditional advertising.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Blake Krikorianis chief executive ofSling Media, which makes theSlingbox- a device that takes a TV input and then sends it over any network, whether in your home or to your hotel room in another city. He spoke exclusively toKate Bulkleyfor Technology Guardian about UK sales, Apple's movie download service, and whether the company might get sued for what it does by irate subscription TV companies - or get bought by them instead.Blake Krikorianis chief executive ofSling Media, which makes theSlingbox- a device that takes a TV input and then sends it over any network, whether in your home or to your hotel room in another city. He spoke exclusively toKate Bulkleyfor Technology Guardian about UK sales, Apple's movie download service, and whether the company might get sued for what it does by irate subscription TV companies - or get bought by them instead.Technology Guardian: How did the Slingbox come about?Blake Krikorian: We are consumers like everybody else, and the idea behind Slingbox came because we were big San Francisco Giants fans and we simply wanted to watch our team's games while were in the office or on the road and there was no simple way of doing that. We looked around at internet and mobile services and we found that the vast majority of them are charging us additional monthly fees, but most of us have subscription fatigue already because we are already paying quite a bit for our Sky or Comcast or whatever home cable, and most of these internet services don't actually offer you what you're looking for and they don't equate to what your home TV programming is like. The TV in your family room is what you've learned to expect, so we thought we are already getting content at home that we love. And we have a DVR [digital video recorder] which is a lot like a Sky+ box, and we wanted to be able to watch our home TV on whatever particular display I happen to be sitting in front of, whether it's my laptop or my mobile phone.TG: So how does it actually work? BK: The Slingbox is a small box shaped like an oversized chocolate bar and it's available on the high street now in the UK. There is no monthly fee and you put this box in your home connected to your Sky+ box or your NTL cable box. It takes in the TV signal and re-directs it out over the internet via an Ethernet or home wireless connection to a PC or a mobile phone on which you've downloaded the Slingplayer software. It gives you full control of your TV experience on whatever display you happen to be at.TG: You didn't get started that long ago. Has Slingbox captured people's imaginations so quickly? BK: It's been amazing because Slingbox is a completely new product category, a new concept for TV viewers and we have done absolutely zero marketing. We launched in the beginning of July last year in the USA in over 1,000 CompUSA and BestBuy stores, something that had never been done before. By September, we went up to 3,000 stores and we virtually sold out the product in a few days. In the first six months we sold over 100,000 units.TG: You launched in the UK at the end of May; what's different here? BK: TV is a ubiquitous desire, but it is slightly different in Europe, so we re-architected the Slingbox for this market. There is only one piece of silicon inside the Europe Slingbox that is similar to the US version. It's a PAL box, but we have also inserted a DVB-T (DTT) tuner. So all you have to do is add an aerial and you can sling your Freeview channels and/or you can connect it to your Sky or cable box and sling those channels as well. After the first three weeks in the UK stores, we had completely sold out. We had expected that supply to last to the end of the year.TG: So how many have you sold? I heard the shelves were empty in some stores. BK: If you look at it on a per-store basis, we are far above the US sales. There is no doubt Slingbox will sell in the tens of thousands of units this year in the UK. Whether we get over a hundred thousand, we'll see. We have now caught up with the supply and when I was in London this week, it was good to go into PC World and see Slingboxes on the shelves. Some of the sales guys I talked to said it's been one of the best new product launches they've seen this year in terms of consumer response.TG: How do you think the wireless home will develop and how will Slingbox fit into it? BK: Over 40% of the usage of the Slingbox today is around the home. Many people are getting laptops and they are just slinging their television from the living room to another room in the house. So if they're in the kitchen, they take their laptop and can watch a food show while they're cooking. It's like a wireless television. The other thing people like to do is sling their Sky+ programming around the house. This is one of the things my wife likes to do. She might start watching a show in the family room, but then move with her laptop up to her office and continue to watch the show. Right now we distribute over the home wireless broadband network to a laptop or mobile phone. What we don't do right now is sling to another TV set, but we've had a lot of requests for a mini-Sling receiver that could just plug into the other TV sets in the house so we could sling programming from the main set to another set. That could be a logical extension of our product line.TG: Apple announced the launch of its movie download offering this week. What do you think about that? BK: This is how we see the world: people love their living room TV programming and they want it more and more on their terms. More and more consumers are spending time in front of displays other than their television sets and the number of displays are increasing. Nowadays during a day, you'll look at four or five different screens. So wouldn't companies like ourselves and Apple try to use these screens? We decided, isn't it just cool to take your home TV and make it a seamless experience across all these displays. The last thing I want is X type of content on one display and Y type of content on another display. People want the familiarity right down to the channel line-up. So, for me, I know that Comedy Central in the US is channel 249 and I can bring that up with a Slingbox on my phone or on my PC. Whereas with another device, I might not be able to get it or I might have to pay somebody else to get a clip of it. We welcome other products that have open internet connectivity, but the only thing that you can hope with a company like Apple is that they won't continue to be proprietary and continue to not allow inter-operability. People are expecting convergence and that means all my stuff starts to work together. But unfortunately in our industry, we have companies who have incredibly religious technical beliefs or who are in constant battles with other companies and the consumer suffers. They have lost sight of what the consumers are looking for. We are trying to be a company that embraces and not replaces new products. That's why we sling to mobile devices as well as PCs. It means you don't have to also buy a SlingTV and a SlingPhone and a SlingPC. I could probably make a more seamless experience that way because it would be all controlled under me, but I believe in the future it won't be just one company that provides all that. People want choice and if we can be the company that provides that, then that in itself can be a different form of proprietary. Actually, by being the most open system can end up being a core differentiator and that is something we're focused on.TG: Are there more devices that you'll be slinging to in the future? I'm thinking of an Archos, a video iPod or other PDAs. BK: There are numerous companies showing us their new media-playing type of products that have connectivity in them. There's no question a Slingplayer on these devices could quite possibly be the killer app. Some of those existing media players have some challenges because it's cumbersome to get the content onto them. Even on an iPod, you have to sync it up to bring the content over. With the Slingbox, your TV is doing the refreshing for you. It's not like when you go away, you have to think about transferring files onto your portable media player. That takes organisation which I certainly don't have [laughs] and when the new shows come on the TV, I've already left on my trip. Today people expect instant gratification. So network connectivity is the killer app for these devices, but only if it lets you get to your content wherever you are at the push of a button.TG: You've started as a hardware company selling the Slingbox, but recently you've signed a deal to put your software into somebody else's box - is this the future roadmap? And, if so, when will we see your software in a Sky box? BK: When we started, we decided to focus on building out retail sales of Slingbox so that we wouldn't have any external dependencies on bigger players who might be too slow or have too much to lose. As it happens, you can see how strong a product this can be for cable or satellite companies because, with all this talk of triple play and quadruple play, when you look at it, what does a high-speed broadband service and a TV service have in common except a universal bill and maybe a discounted price? Mobile is the same thing. Slingbox is a type of product where it starts to make sense to get TV and high-speed data from one place because our product means you can get your TV anywhere. And if these operators get into a mobile space as well - like NTL has in the UK - this notion of fixed mobile convergence starts to make sense. So what you're going to see from us is partnership deals with pay TV companies and we've signed the first one with TVA in Brazil, a large cable TV company, and we've also signed a deal with Viasat in Sweden and the Nordic countries, a major satellite TV company. Viasat is marketing the Slingbox under its brand of Viasat Everywhere. In the mobile space, we haven't announced anything yet, but I think you'll see us doing deals outside the US first because, in many ways, mobile operators are a lot more innovative than we are in the States which is a sad thing for me, personally (laughs).TG: So the idea is world domination... BK: Yes, we will support every device we possibly can [laughs]. Right now we support Windows and we're releasing the beta of the Mac client this week for the Slingplayer worldwide. Both of those clients are free; you can download them and install them on as many PCs or Macs as you want. We've also released the Windows mobile Smartphone as well as Windows mobile Pocket PC phone. Before the end of the year, we'll be supporting additional platforms. In the UK, for example, Windows mobile has had some success, but other OSs have had broader success, so it's important for us to be able to support those other platforms.TG: How many more? BK: By the end of the year, there'll be at least two more OSs, so that means a whole bunch more operating devices.TG: So what's to stop a Sony or a Dell or Sky from replicating the Sling technology? I'm thinking of Tivo, the pioneering PVR company in the US which created a brand but which has been outpaced by me-too technologies. BK: The real core piece of technology that we've created is called Slingstream. People watch our video and say "Wow! How is it so smooth? There isn't a lot of re-buffering that I'm used to seeing with internet video." Our technology dynamically adjusts behind the scenes to whatever type of device it's streaming to - regardless of the rendering capability - depending on what type of content and what kind of network it's going over and what network conditions there are. When you think about streaming video over IP, think of it as a pipe and this pipe is constantly expanding and contracting, wreaking havoc on traditional internet video. Our software detects all this and adjusts dynamically and the video stays smooth.TG: Can you protect that technology? BK: Oh, definitely. Of course, there is always a danger in this space of being dis-intermediated. People say that we do it [laughs]. Tivo is an interesting case. They have some core patents that are now starting to pay off. I do not want our company to turn into a patent and litigation company. That wouldn't be too interesting, I'd fall asleep at the wheel. I believe in convergence. One day, something's a product and the next day it's a feature in another product. So, could a Slingbox be a feature in a cable box or a satellite box? Sure. But, on the other had, could a cable box or a satellite box can become a feature in a Slingbox? Well, we are already that kind of box, we just don't have decryption software. I look at how best to deliver this technology to the consumer and if there are other partners we need to do that then we should work with them and our business model could very well change. It's all about innovation. Patents are one thing, but there is so much innovation left in us.TG: What about Sky? BK: Let me answer that this way: There are large, established, multinational, multibillion dollar companies that find it incredibly difficult to take a product like ours and spread it across all their vertically integrated businesses. It didn't matter before that these companies looked like this because we didn't have convergence, but now things need to be tied together. We need to be really pro-active and great partners with these players. Could Slingbox become the Dolby of play-shifting? Sure. We just have to go with the flow from that perspective.TG: Have you talked to Sky? BK: Sure, we've talked to Sky, but obviously I can't tell you what we discussed. I will tell you that we met some fantastic people there. In the UK, it's been amazing to me how well the product has done and that makes us interesting to a lot of players.TG: So what if people sue you for taking their content beyond where they originally sold the subscription? For example, if you have a Sky+ subscription in the UK, but you sling the programme to Cairo where you've gone for business. BK: I say two things: we haven't been sued yet and we're giving the consumer the ability to watch the programme that they've already paid for wherever they happen to be. Just like you run a scart cable from your set-top box to your TV in your house, we are giving the consumer a virtual scart cable that they can run 10 feet, 10 miles or 10,000 miles. So what's the harm? Can you imagine the consumer backlash if a company said you've paid for this programming, but if you take one step out of your door you can no longer watch it any more. Will people be arrested for stepping outside their house and watching their TV through the window. No one is stealing anything. John Malone (the head of Liberty Media), who is one of our investors, puts it best. He says that when the US cable industry started, it was accused of stealing broadcast signals and putting them down pipes to get to rural areas where antennae couldn't reach. Slingbox is just continuing where the cable guys left off. We start at the set-top box and we run virtual cables to the consumer wherever they happen to be over the home network or the internet. It's the same thing.TG: What about people taking the content and mashing and mixing it or sending it to their friends? BK: You can't do that with Slingbox - it is only permitted to stream to one device at a time. So you can only have one slinging session at a time. It can be frustrating for me personally if I'm travelling and I go to log in, and my wife on the laptop in my house is watching it already. So I've just added a new feature into the last build of Slingbox called the "Cathy feature", named after my wife. Basically, you now have an administrator password and that means you can kick off somebody else who is on it. My wife doesn't know about this feature yet, so she'll call me sometimes and ask why the Slingbox isn't working [laughs]. Seriously, the one-to-one feature is very important. It's also one device at a time. I can't watch both on my work PC and my phone at the same time. You can never say that something is 100% hack-proof because nothing on the planet is, but no one has hacked it so far. The messaging between the client device and the Slingbox is all encrypted. The thing that the content companies are most worried about is that people will share with 1,000 of their closest friends at one time and that we don't do.
Yesterday I downloaded iTunes 7 to both my Mac and PC to see what was happening: and came across a bit of trouble.On the Mac everything seemed to go alright - until I tried the process of downloading album art for Coverflow, which seemed to hit a brick wall every so often (after three or four attempts I've now got about 60% of some 600 albums accompanied by artwork). On the PC things fared a little worse, things froze up when I tried to log in to the store and I gave up.But apparently I'm not the only one; several colleagues have reported similar issues and one emailed me to say that she was forced to step back to repair install in order to bring back an earlier version when v7 borked her high-end PC.Over on the Apple forum people aremaking their voices heard- let us know if you've had similar issues and I'll ask Apple exactly what's going on.
I'd like to use my new laptop to access emails via a mobile phone, while travelling, but companies only offer fixed contract terms on a monthly basis. I am aware that data cards are costly to buy, but as a light user, I could accept this if I only paid for the megabytes that I used. Peter JohnsonIn June, Vodafone finally launched the Vodafone Mobile Connect Prepay 3G data card for £199 plus VAT, which included 10MB of data usage. Hurray! Data then cost about £3 per megabyte in the UK, and £9 internationally. Boo! However, it seems the service was immediately renamed Vodafone Mobile Connect Broadband, and the prepay cards disappeared. (A Vodafone press officer thinks there were some available "in the reseller channel, not to consumers".)Now Vodafone's UK site only offers contracts, such as Vodafone Data 250, with 250MB of data for £30 per month, and Data Unlimited for £53 per month. ("Unlimited" means "up to 1GB".) It's an interesting reflection on the price per megabyte that the £30 per month deal gets you £750 worth of data.T-Mobile has a cheaper deal called Web'n'Walk Professional, which costs £20 per month for unlimited use. (In this case, "unlimited" means "up to 2GB".) Further, you can use your notebook PC with Wi-Fi in more than a thousand T-Mobile hotspots. However, you are forbidden from using VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) and instant messaging.The cynic in me wonders if the mobile carriers intend to discourage consumers from using GPRS/3G data services until they become obsolete - much as BT did with ISDN. Under the circumstances, I suggest you use a cable (or Bluetooth) to connect your laptop to a mobile phone and access email slowly and unreliably until WiMax becomes widely available. If it ever does.Backchat: AA Macbeth says he's using an Advent Wireless Modem PC Card on special offer from PC World with the Easymobile PAYG Sim card taken from his mobile. "I get about 115kbps and charges are about £3 per megabyte," he says.
I wish to limit the amount of time my children can surf the web. Is there any software around which allows you to control the online time of users (say) per day or session? Our system is Windows XP, with each member of the family having a different account. Stephen BrooksIf you want full control then CyberPatrol and NetNanny are among the best known programs, but for time control, have a look atQuality Time 4. There is a huge range of alternatives. Theparental filters section of Tucowsincludes Access Control Home, ComputerTime 2.0, CyberPatrol 7.5, Enuff 6.15, KidsWatch Time Control 3, and Nanny.TheDMoz open directory, Parental Control, has many more, including LogOff Now, Time Boss, TimeOut PC, Time Watcher and WatchDog.Since this is an often-requested feature in homes and schools, Microsoft has added parental controls to Windows Vista. Seehttp://www.microsoft.com/windowsvista/community/parentalcontrols.mspxBackchat: Mike Hughes says he uses Windows XP Pro to control his kids' time online, with "limited logon hours attached to the account properties. Pretty straightforward."
I have just tried to reopen some Word 97 files not used since a change of computer from Windows 98 to XP. I get a page of open squares with occasional letters shown. Eric LiggettWhen Word opens a document, it uses the type font specified or, if you don't have it, the closest it can find. Each character is represented by a number, which Word looks up in a codepage table. When it can't find a character, it replaces it with a small blank square.This problem is particularly common when opening Chinese and Cyrillic documents. In this case, it suggests that either there was a problem with your original font - for example, you used a custom or non-standard font - or you now have a fault in XP. If not, the documents are probably corrupt. Try opening them on someone else's PC. If that works, you can re-save them as .txt and .rtf files.I have oversimplified things here. Word 97 was the first version of Word to use Unicode to encode rich text in 16-bit characters, like Windows NT/2000/XP, but Windows 98 still used 8-bit ASCII (or ANSI) characters. For technical details, seePeter Constable's paper, Unicode Issues in Word 97 and Word 2000. (You can download the 532K PDF white paper directlyhere.)Backchat: Barry Moore says to try loading the files in Microsoft's free Word 97 file viewer, then copying the whole text and pasting it into another word processor. "It works for me, anyway!"
How can I change Windows Explorer so that by default it opens with the C: drive highlighted and expanded rather than My Documents? Michael JuffsGo to the icon you use to run Windows Explorer (on your desktop or on the Start menu), right-click it, and select Properties. Go to the line that says Target, which may contain something like "%SystemRoot%\explorer.exe" and add /e, c:\ to the end.Microsoft explains how to do with big pictures on its XP Home site, so you could simply copy and paste the bold line from that page:%SystemRoot%\explorer.exe /n, /e, /select, C:\See:Change the default folder opened in Windows Explorer
In today's soaraway Technology section you'll find a couple of games-related articles. Jane Qiu asksIs the end in sight for Sony's laser blues?Apparently, bulk gallium nitride crystals are the answer to all our blue laser diode difficulties. I knew it!You'll also find mecomparingSony's PS3 difficulties with the decline of the Labour party and the public backlash against Blair.I also liked Ronan Fitzgerald'sstory on GPS tracking in mobile phones. This will pinpoint the current locatation of anyone on your contacts list and then guide you to them - a feature likely to find its way into mobile and handheld games in the near future.
Popular social networking sites such as MySpace and Bebo are putting children at risk of online bullying and inadvertently exposing them to pornography and unsuitable advertising, the consumer affairs magazine Which? has warned.This comes after Computing Which? set up an account pretending to be a 14-year-old and found "numerous examples" of pornography, bullying and unsuitable advertising on the site, which allows users to create their own web pages, chat to friends and share photographs.The adult researcher who set up a MySpace account as a teenager was able to do so without proving age or identity. The sites claim to monitor uploaded images, but researchers came across pornographic photographs on both "within minutes".MySpace removed one image within a couple of hours of it being reported but two pornographic pictures remained online at Bebo nearly a day later, according to the consumer affairs magazine.In one instance of bullying, a teenage boy's web page asked his friends to vote on whether a girl they knew had Aids."Networking sites such asMySpace.comandBebo.comneed to do more to protect their millions of trusting members," said the magazine's editor, Jessica Ross. "Children are spending hours every week on networking sites, building up their profiles and chatting with friends. However, what might seem like innocent fun has a darker, more sinister side."Teenage users need to be aware that there is no way of knowing who is behind the face of a 'friend'."Michael Birch, Bebo's chief executive, told Computing Which? that cyber bullying occurred in only a small minority of cases. Bebo aimed to remove offensive images within 24 hours of their being reported and was introducing technology to scan photos proactively.In a statement, Bebo said: "Sadly, children face risks in everyday life, whether playing in their school grounds or on the internet. We are very conscious of this and are working hard to ensure our site is not abused. With that in mind, we are introducing an anti-bullying initiative today."Users can now opt to pre-screen comments and images that others attempt to post to their Bebo homepage. In addition, users can choose to block specific users from further interaction."A MySpace spokesman said the site "takes online safety extremely seriously" and had systems in place to protect those under the age of 18 and remove pornographic images.Both MySpace and Bebo employ security and child safety officers, who trawl sites for illegal or inappropriate content.Computing Which? said parents should ensure children never give details online which could reveal their identity. It also advised that only trusted friends be allowed to view a user's profile, and that users never lie about their age.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Monday September 18 2006In the article below we stated that Natalie Ceeney, the chief executive of the National Archives, in evidence to the select committee on constitutional affairs (referring to the period during which the 1911 paper census will be digitised) had said: "But during that time, freedom of information on data would have temporarily to be suspended." In fact, as the record of the proceedings shows, she said no such thing. The National Archives has no power to suspend Freedom of Information legislation and Ms Ceeney did not say that it could do that. Neither is it the case that "a certain amount of exclusivity - often time-limited - on the use of data" is provided to commercial publishers as part of the National Archives programme of licensing deals. The National Archives never offers exclusive rights to the data or content itself as part of these deals, only exclusive access to the original documents - this is only for reasons of conservation and preservation of the original documents.The National Archives, once the dusty haunt of academic historians, solicitors' clerks and UFO conspiracists, are now an international e-publishing phenomenon. Some six million people visited the archives electronically last year, to view records or order documents from a thousand years of British history. With new technology introduced this year making resources more accessible to nonspecialists, that number is likely to soar.Meanwhile, through a series of innovative licensing deals, the organisation is taking an unusual approach to the task of digitising even obscure archives: it's encouraging private firms to foot the bill for doing so, in return for a certain amount of exclusivity - often time-limited - on the use of data. One result, according to chief executive Natalie Ceeney, is to create a thriving industry for genealogy websites in the UK - and the study of our ancestors is already one of the biggest pursuits on the web.Britain's online genealogy sites are "probably better than any other country," she told the Guardian/RSA Free Our Data debate in July. And certainly, wider access for the public and for private companies is very much what Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign seeks to create with Her Majesty's digital crown jewels.Digitising digitsAccess to the National Archives is already free, says Ceeney; the problem is that access is to the paper form. Digitising the data makes it far more easily available, and useful; but unlike organisations such as Ordnance Survey, where the raw material is now gathered in digital form, paper still rules. Digitising documents, especially old ones, is a slow, labour-intensive business.Thus National Archives online data (nationalarchives.gov.uk) is not free to electronic shoppers. It'll cost you &pound;3.50 to order your great-grandfather's medal record from the first world war (if he was of that generation, he'll probably have one), and &pound;8.50 to order an electronic image of a document not yet digitised.But, according to Ceeney, licensing data to commercial firms is keeping costs down. "The average price to download a census record is 60p, about a tenth of what it would cost to digitise it ourselves."Ceeney's approach may be a neat way of squaring the cost circle as public organisations come under dual pressures to minimise their taxpayer funding while simultaneously making their data widely available. Some have been driven to the "trading fund" model, where they charge for dispensing data; but the National Archives has a public role where charging seems inappropriate.Ceeney says that the Archives putting the digitisation of future censuses out to private companies is the most effective route, but that we must accept that it will temporarily lie in the private, not public, domain. "Our approach is to find commercial suppliers, as with the 1901 census, who would take the commercial risk of digitisation, which is going to be hugely expensive, in return for essentially being able to release it to a wide audience, and it will also take a process of three to four years," she told the Select Committee on Constitutional Affairs in March (tinyurl.com/jmyq3)."But during that time, freedom of information on data would have temporarily to be suspended," she said. "We are unlikely to find a commercial supplier willing to take the 1911 Census and digitise it while simultaneously answering FoI requests, but also it would mean access to the few rather than the many, because we would have to stop digitisation in order to let anyone who wanted to walk on site see it, which would stop us doing the digitisation."Yet interestingly Ceeney is keen to keep the private sector alive. She would not allow a single commercial supplier (such as a very large search engine) to digitise all the data, and make it available at no cost to drive rivals out of the market. Ceeney wants a thriving rivalry of healthy companies that can each raise enough funding to bid for the digitisation projects.National Archives, formerly the Public Record Office, has been quietly digitising history for years. It hasn't always gone smoothly. In 2002, the online launch of the digitised data from the 1901 census turned into a public fiasco. The website, set up by QinetiQ, was overwhelmed within minutes. On its first day, it received 24 times the predicted volume of visitors.Among other things, the episode demonstrated the huge latent demand for information about our ancestors. According to David Thomas, the archives' director of collections and technology, up to 60% of online visitors to the archives are looking for their own family history.The latest popular innovation is a global search of 24 catalogues from the portal site. Visitors can find famillial references in obscure databases such as the passenger lists of ships carrying immigrants to Britain. Descendants can retrieve the record from their ancestor's name, rather than having to know the name of the ship, port and date of arrival.Thomas says that the search engine, based on Autonomy's IDOL Server, opens up 1,000 years of history to nonspecialists, learning from previous searches what aspects likely to be of interest. The organisation also plans to create a wiki to spread knowledge of how the archives work. National Archives is looking for "licensed internet associates" to digitise the next round of records to go public. Packages include unofficial (non Anglican) registers of baptisms, births and burials from 1567-1858, and from the Bunhill Fields burial ground in London, resting place of William Blake.Price of freedomAlthough announced in 2002, the licensed associates programme looks set to step up a gear under the commercially-minded management of Ceeney, whose appointment last year to the ancient post of keeper of the public records caused stir among historians. The fear was that Ceeney, a former McKinsey management consultant who arrived via the British Library, would turn out to be a ruthless "knowledge industry" cost-cutter.One fear has already been born out in the plan to close the popular Family Record Centre in Islington, London, which will require personal visitors looking for documents such as wills to come to the head office in Kew. Another area of potential controversy is the archives' relationship with the agency supposed to regulate Crown Copyright. The Office of Public Sector Information becomes part of the National Archives this month.Nonetheless, the policy of licensing records nonexclusively, at marginal cost to commercial firms, is one that other public sector information holders might emulate. While electronic National Archives data isn't free in the sense of "no cost", it is infinitely more freely available than in the past. And if you have a shred of interest in where you came from, it is well worth a browse.&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:www.freeourdata.org.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Nintendo has announced the Japanese launch date for Wii - December 2. The price is YEN25,000. There are varying reports on the number of games likely to be available on day one - Reuters has gone for 16, and 1up.com hasdetails of those gamesas well as titles expected further down the line. 1up also covers theVirtual Console pricing details- it seems retro game download costs will be tiered with NES games at YEN500, SNES titles at 800 and N64 classics at 1000.Famitsu.com has publishedphotos from the launch event(The link is to a Google translation).There's been some confusion over a possible US launch date. Ahead of Nintendo's official New York conference, the Seattle P.I hasposteda story, seemingly from the New York Times, claiming a November 19 date and a price point of USD250. There's been no word from Nintendo of America on this and a pre-Japan launch would be a radical move for the company.Theofficial Wii websitehas also gone live. No English text at the moment, but there are images and videos...UPDATE:For those of you who can't follow links while at work, key launch titles are...The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess Wario Ware Wii Sports Red Steel SD Gundam Revolution Super Monkey Ball Banana Blitz Trauma Centre: Second Opinion Elebits Wing Island
I'm currently in the air to Australia for theSydney Marathon(I'm doing 10k - and you can sponsor my run for Melanoma Research, in honour of my uncle whodied earlier this year,here) and to present at theAssociation of Internet Researchersconference in Brisbane. I'm also going to meet with some of the people doing games-related things at theABC, but I openly admit that I'm hopelessly ignorant of what's going on in the gaming world in Oceania. I know that Aussie authorities aretouchywhenitcomestocertaincontent, and are quick to ban. Otherwise, I need your help.Can anyone tell me what's going on in the Australian games world? I will be checking in with the blog on a regular basis, so please do post your comments, suggestions and direction. Anything ordinary or extraordinary welcome!
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Follow you, follow meGPS tracking can be used to stay in touch with friends, or more sinister purposes such as spying on a spouse. Ronan Fitzgerald examines the potential for abuse.Free Our Data:National Archives squares the data circleBurgeoning demand for public sector information has prompted controversial cost-cutting measures, but might the model for digitising old censuses be a good one for government data?Is the end in sight for Sony's laser blues?Sony's announcement last week of delays to the PlayStation 3 (PS3) in Europe was blamed solely on the difficulties in making one component: the blue laser diode for the built-in Blu-ray player.Gadgets:Samsung YP-K5Samsung breaks new ground in the MP3 player market with the launch this week of the K5.Virgin Lobster 700TVWhile you have been able to watch TV on a mobile for over a year now, the method of streaming the video, over 3G networks, is far from satisfactory. With the Lobster 700TV, Virgin offers a solution.Ion USB turntableThere are many ways to transfer audio from vinyl records to PCs, but for the most part they are complex and not very effective. The Ion USB turntable, priced at £120, raises the bar a little.Unlike Tony, Sony has the cool to slip the gallowsKeith Stuart: Surely I was not alone last week in spotting the parallels between the collapsing Tony Blair premiership and Sony's PS3 delay.What is the next target for spam?Social media sites such as Digg and Reddit.How can I be sure who someone is in Second Life?You can't - and it's even more complicated now, because hackers broke into the system's database and stole a number of peoples' passwords and potentially other details such as names and addresses.Lightening the load for digital nomadsVictor Keegan: The information revolution made it easier to work from home, but a new kind of person is now emerging who spurns both the office and the home in order to work on the move in a library, a hotel, a Starbucks with a wireless link, an internet cafe, or a park bench.TechnobileAndrew Brown: Since we end up paying for the printer cartridges rather than the printers, why not review those instead?Sling your telly around the worldBlake Krikorian is chief executive of Sling Media, which makes the Slingbox - a device that takes a TV input and then sends it over any network, whether it's in your home or to the other side of the globe.Note:the full text of this interview will be posted on the blog later todayDo robots dream of copyright?Dead author Philip K Dick lives on, in the form of an automaton. But might it infringe property rights?Energy stressed? Take some silicon and lap up the sunCharles Arthur: It was only last year that the use of silicon for solar cells outdistanced - or perhaps "outarea-d" - that for semiconductors. Whichever way you look at it, that's remarkable.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query. Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.Letters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.NewsbytesPearl of a phone | Tried Tri-call? | A nation surfs | Digital TV tested | TalkTalk Hell | Staying safe online | It's a digital world
Samsung breaks new ground in the MP3 player market with the launch this week of the K5. It's a rather chunky music player available in 1GB, 2GB and 4GB versions, but the twist is that it includes an integrated pair of mini stereo speakers that are activated when you slide the player open. Naturally their meagre output won't trouble your neighbours, but they do go louder than you expect and the sound quality is fairly good. The K5 is also unusual in that it sports a touch screen OLED interface which takes a design cue or two from LG's very popular Chocolate phone. It isn't especially responsive and I find the lack of tactile feedback annoying, but it is easy to find tracks and change settings etc. Priced from &pound;139, the K5 is also compatible with a host of music download services, comes with an integrated radio and, best of all, has an alarm. It's a tad pricey for a music player, but its built in speaker and iconic design are sure to win it many fans.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
While you have been able to watch TV on a mobile for over a year now, the method of streaming the video, over 3G networks, is far from satisfactory. On screen images are jerky and the video drains a phone's battery. With the Lobster 700TV, Virgin offers a solution in that it has an onboard DAB decoder using BT's Movio platform. This enables the user to not only tune in to more than 50 DAB digital radio stations, but also four TV channels - BBC1, ITV1, C4 and E4. Picture quality is far clearer, with more solid images. It worked well when used on a desk, but on the move (such as on a bus) the images were slightly more disjointed and occasionally I lost the signal. Sound quality, on both the radio and TV channels, was exceptional. Battery life is also very good. I was able to get a couple of hours viewing before the screen went blank. The only drawback is that the earphones double as the aerial, so if you want to listen to the TV/radio through the phone's speakers, you still have to have the headset plugged in. As for the rest, the 700TV is a Windows Mobile phone with the usual set of features including Outlook, Pocket Explorer etc and an OK 1.3 megapixel camera. This might not be the last word in TV phones, but it is a step in the right direction.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
There are many ways to transfer audio from vinyl records to PCs, but for the most part they are complex and not very effective. The Ion USB turntable, priced at &pound;120, raises the bar a little. It is a standard record deck with traditional features such as 33/45 rpm playback and anti-skate, but the difference is that it has an integrated USB connection. If the turntable is used with the accompanying Audacity software, which works with both Macs and PCs, users can transfer tracks to their PC's hard disk. Given the price of the turntable, the sound quality is surprisingly good. One neat touch is that you can record an LP at 45rpm and use the software to adjust it to normal speed, although there is trade off in the sound quality. The only real drawback is that the software isn't intuitive. The Ion turntable isn't likely to be something that's connected to your PC often, but for archiving those dusty old 45s and LPs, it could prove priceless.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It was only last year that the use of silicon for solar cells outdistanced - or perhaps "outarea-d" - that for semiconductors. Whichever way you look at it, that's remarkable: chips are tiny, even though they're made by the thousand, while solar panels are large objects, intended to cover a roof rather than fill a little gap in a motherboard.Yet it's taken this long - despite solar panel use growing at 40% annually over the past decade - to get to the stage where we are starting to make more silicon to generate energy than to use it up. Sometimes, you have to wonder at our priorities as a species. But you can have so much more fun with a computer than with a solar panel. At least until the power runs out. Then you want both.If you listen hard enough, you can hear the signs of what we could call "energy stress" all around. Oil prices aren't coming down. Power suppliers keep hiking their fuel prices, sighing along with their customers (yet somehow increasing profits). And, mirabile dictu, the Sun newspaper this week came out in favour of being green, saying: "Too many of us have spent too long in denial over the threat from global warming. The evidence is now irresistible ..." And there you were thinking that red-top newspapers had green colour blindness.So solar is beginning to look increasingly attractive, because - unlike nuclear power - you can getyour own, and as Ashley Seager showed in this paper on Monday (Soaring energy costs make solar power a bright idea, September 11), make an economic return on capital.Thus amid all the gloom, there are smiles on the faces of people who work in the industry, such as Charles Gay, a 30-year veteran of the solar business. He's general manager of the solar panel business at the wonderfully-named Applied Materials (a moniker so generic it sounds like James Bond's front company). He's full of optimism about the future of his sector: "The big companies take this seriously - it's a genuine growth area." The OPEC oil embargo of 1973 kickstarted the business, and since then it's gone up and down, but right now is on the up: Japan and China are big users, and following another summer in which California's power business sunk to its knees as everyone turned on the air conditioners, Arnold Schwarzenegger (turning out to be the ideal politician, more interested in pragmatism than party politics) has initiated a scheme to put 3kW of photovoltaic capacity on 1m Californian rooves - to generate as much electricity as three power plants - in the next 10 years.But panel costs still remaintoo high for us to rush out for them. Yet what's the bottleneck? A tug-of-war between chip plants and solar panel makers? Not precisely, explains Gay. The problem is supply; but unlike chip manufacturing, where prices wax and wane as new generations of chip foundry come along, we can't make enough silicon to meet demand. "Purifying silicon is like building a petroleum cracking plant," says Gay. "It takes two or three years."And while the pub bore will tell you that silicon is the second most plentiful element in the Earth's crust, the problem is wrestling it from the grip of the oxygen it's bound to. Just as with aluminium (which has to be electrolysed from bauxite), the principal cost of silicon's manufacture is electricity.Thus the world's biggest silicon manufacturing plants are in Scandinavia and China, where hydroelectric power is plentiful. (China is a big fan of solar power too.) I like the circularity: renewable energy being used to create the raw material for another renewable energy source. Yes, dams create problems of their own, and silicon is toxic. But if it's a choice between that and pushing a plough, I'll take the first one every time.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Data cards for notebooksI'd like to use my new laptop to access emails via a mobile phone, while travelling, but companies only offer fixed contract terms on a monthly basis. I am aware that data cards are costly to buy, but as a light user, I could accept this if I only paid for the megabytes that I used.Peter JohnsonJack Schofield replies:In June, Vodafone finally launched the Vodafone Mobile Connect Prepay 3G data card for &pound;199 plus VAT, which included 10MB of data usage. Hurray! Data then cost about &pound;3 per megabyte in the UK, and &pound;9 internationally. Boo! However, it seems the service was immediately renamed Vodafone Mobile Connect Broadband, and the prepay cards disappeared. (A Vodafone press officer thinks there were some available "in the reseller channel, not to consumers".)Now Vodafone's UK site only offers contracts, such as Vodafone Data 250, with 250MB of data for &pound;30 per month, and Data Unlimited for &pound;53 per month. ("Unlimited" means "up to 1GB".) It's an interesting reflection on the price per megabyte that the &pound;30 per month deal gets you &pound;750 worth of data.T-Mobile has a cheaper deal called Web'n'Walk Professional, which costs &pound;20 per month for unlimited use. (In this case, "unlimited" means "up to 2GB".) Further, you can use your notebook PC with Wi-Fi in more than a thousand T-Mobile hotspots. However, you are forbidden from using VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) and instant messaging. The cynic in me wonders if the mobile carriers intend to discourage consumers from using GPRS/3G data services until they become obsolete - much as BT did with ISDN. Under the circumstances, I suggest you use a cable (or Bluetooth) to connect your laptop to a mobile phone and access email slowly and unreliably until WiMax becomes widely available. If it ever does.Calling a haltI wish to limit the amount of time my children can surf the web. Is there any software around which allows you to control the online time of users (say) per day or session? Our system is Windows XP, with each member of the family having a different account.Stephen BrooksJS:If you want full control then CyberPatrol and NetNanny are among the best known programs, but for time control, have a look at Quality Time 4 (www. wieser-software.com/qualtime). There is a huge range of alternatives. The parental filters section of Tucows includes Access Control Home, ComputerTime 2.0, CyberPatrol 7.5, Enuff 6.15, KidsWatch Time Control 3, and Nanny (www.tucows.com/Windows/Internet/ParentalFilters).The DMoz open directory has many more, including LogOff Now, Time Boss, TimeOut PC, Time Watcher and WatchDog (http://tinyurl.com/f86zo). Since this is an often-requested feature in homes and schools, Microsoft has added parental controls to Windows Vista. Seehttp://tinyurl.com/pvp6nWord squaresI have just tried to reopen some Word 97 files not used since a change of computer from Windows 98 to XP. I get a page of open squares with occasional letters shown.Eric LiggettJS:When Word opens a document, it uses the type font specified or, if you don't have it, the closest it can find. Each character is represented by a number, which Word looks up in a codepage table. When it can't find a character, it replaces it with a small blank square.This problem is particularly common when opening Chinese and Cyrillic documents. In this case, it suggests that either there was a problem with your original font - for example, you used a custom or non-standard font - or you now have a fault in XP. If not, the documents are probably corrupt. Try opening them on someone else's PC. If that works, you can re-save them as .txt and .rtf files.I have oversimplified things here. Word 97 was the first version of Word to use Unicode to encode rich text in 16-bit characters, like Windows NT/2000/XP, but Windows 98 still used 8-bit ASCII (or ANSI) characters. For technical details, see Peter Constable's paper, Unicode Issues in Word 97 and Word 2000 (tinyurl.com/zpysv).Starting at CHow can I change Windows Explorer so that by default it opens with the C: drive highlighted and expanded rather than My Documents?Michael JuffsJS:Go to the icon you use to run Windows Explorer (on your desktop or on the Start menu), right-click it, and select Properties. Go to the line that says Target, which may contain something like "%SystemRoot%\explorer.exe" and add /e, c:\ to the end.Microsoft explains how to do with big pictures on its XP Home site, so you could simply copy and paste the bold line from that page. See:tinyurl.com/gs4myBackchat&#183;Last week, Andrew Healy asked about indoor aerials. A DTI spokesman says: "Recent independent research prepared for the Department of Trade and Industry by Ricability (a national research charity) has identified three aerials - the Telecam TCE2000 and TCE2001, and the Philips 45dB SDV4240/05 - as giving the best chance of good digital TV reception. Costs range from &pound;9.99 to &pound;26.98. Full results and further advice are available at www.ricability-digitaltv.org.uk."&#183;Simon Watkins tested several Maplins aerials using Elgato EyeTV software and reports that "the One For All amplified aerials worked very well, but their flat panel aerials were more susceptible to interference - particularly motorbikes passing outside." He says the One For All amplified loop products are "at a reduced price at Currys Digital stores".
You would think that there is nothing so dull that a computer magazine won't review it. Yet nowhere have I ever read a review of one of the most important and expensive computers that anyone can buy, and which almost everyone does - the one on the chip built into a printer cartridge.Unlike printers, which are all almost exactly the same, there are huge differences between printer cartridges. If you buy, for example, a set of Canon BJC-8 cartridges, it will cost you around &pound;50. The printer that they use can be had, with a complete set of cartridges, for &pound;62; so I reckon that the printer, on its own, should cost around &pound;12.But you can't, of course, buy the printer on its own. It exists solely to make you go on buying cartridges. You think you're buying it to make copies of things on paper. In fact, it is a copy protection device for the cartridges, which will go on costing &pound;50 every couple of months for as long as the printer lasts. They're quite robust - and why not, when they are worth so much to the manufacturers.If, instead, you buy Canon BJC-6 cartridges ... well, you can't get the printers that fit them any more. This is because they can be had for half the price of the BJC-8, and replacements, not made by Canon, are a quarter of the price or less, though they contain very probably the same ink. That's because they don't have chips in them whose sole function, of course, is to ensure that the printer will only work with expensive ink and to splatter the screen with demands that you buy more almost every time you print anything.Hewlett-Packard cartridges are even worse value. Their chips actually vary from country to country to allow HP to gouge customers more efficiently. It is like region-marked DVDs, except with even less justification.Epson cartridges are great value at the moment because their chips have been widely cloned, and so you can buy ink for them much more cheaply. This is the sort of information that could really sway buying decisions. It is much more important than the notional speed or even the quality of a photo printer. Let's face it: they are all indistinguishably good these days.This is a huge opportunity for useful journalism that tells people something the manufacturers don't want them to know. At the end of each printer cartridge review, add, if you must, a short appendix listing the printers that will work with it, and the size of paper they will take. But don't mislead readers into supposing that it's a printer they are buying, any more than they are buying a mobile phone when they take out a contract.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
