When indie developer Mike Bithell was a kid he was obsessed with two things: Lego and Metal Gear Solid. In his second game, the follow-up to award-winning platformer, Thomas Was Alone, he has combined those passions into one extremely interesting package.Due out in late 2014,Volumeis a highly stylised 'medieval-inspired cyberpunk' stealth game set in a minimalist computerised environment. Bithell is giving nothing away about the setting or narrative at the moment, just that your character must navigate a series of tightly designed environments, avoiding armour-suited AR guards and using gadgets and scenic props to divert their attention.There's no killing and no combat – the game is a sort of arcade stealth experience, where quick decision making and clever AI manipulation are the keys. Players will be able to pick up useful objects like a blackjack baton to knock guards out, or a bugle that sends a sound wave ricocheting around the walls to send enemies int he wrong direction. "Because the game is designed to be played at speed, you always have to be aware of the enemies and where they're looking," says Bithell. "This isn't Metal Gear Solid 3, you're not going to be stalking for hours; this is a game where each level should be completed in two to three minutes. You're meant to slide around these environments quickly."Bithell is happy to acknowledge the very specific Metal Gear allusion in the game's visuals. Not only is it about stealth, not only do the guards have observation states, but the minimalistic visuals specifically call to mind the cunning 'VR Missions' that come with the MGS titles. "I always wanted to make a game about volumetric projection; the idea that this is a projected space that doesn't really exist - like Tony Stark's warehouse in Iron Man. I love the idea of a holodeck without such strict borders.""But yes, the VR missions are obviously an influence. It's just this weird abstract environment - I love that stuff. When I was a kid, I wasn't playing SNES games, so all the indie games that speak lovingly about that era, I don't connect to them emotionally. For me, the nostalgia period is late PlayStation One – that was when I started playing games. This is my ode to Metal Gear."The game will have a full campaign mode, complete with voice acting and a linear plot. However, players will be able to use the build in editor to completely remix or add to any of the missions. You'll be able to add props like squeaky floorboards flushing toilets and lockers to hide in, as well as changing any of the visual story-telling elements, such as notes left in key locations: "The environmental story-telling, including all the text you see popping up while you explore, is all open to editing," says Bithell. "So if someone wants to do a Klingon translation of all the text, they can do that."As well as modifying the 200-or-so levels that will come with the game, players are able to build their own single levels from scratch. Bithell is also hoping to build in the functionality to allow whole user-designed campaigns. "What's great about stealth games is that they are so modular," he says. "If you take it back to the Metal Gear era, adding a noisy floorboard doesn't ever break it. Stealth games are unique among puzzles games – they are about a sequence of unique interactions that don't necessarily have to tie together."At the moment there's only one enemy AI type, but the final game will include a range, with some more observant or with larger or smaller vision cones. Bithell also plans to extend the game after release, with extra missions and maybe texture packs and new characters. A co-op mode is also being considered.Right now it's a scintillating prospect – an arcade stealth creator kit, with really cool cyberpunk visuals, lovely smooth character animation and bags of UGC potential. Bithell is slowly rolling out more info as he goes, but at the moment, he's just happy to chat about the toy, and the game designer, who inspired him."It all comes down to the fact that Kojima publicly said that he made his Metal Gear levels in Lego first," says Bithell. "As a kid, that really blew my mind: Kojima had Lego and I had Lego, so in a way we were the same! That was my thinking! It felt like something attainable. And then later I was playing around with the Unreal engine and I thought, oh, this isn't like playing with Lego at all, it's much more difficult."I wanted to make something that really does feel like Lego..."• Volume is out in late 2014. No specific platforms have been announced
The return of Breaking Bad generated lots of buzz on social networks, while viewers in the UK were able to get the latest episode from Netflix and iTunes within hours of its US airing.Has that dented piracy of the popular TV drama?Figures collected by tech blog TorrentFreakindicate that plenty of viewers downloaded theBlood Money episodevia torrent sites instead.The site claims that 80,000 people were sharing the episode within hours of it appearing online, and that torrented downloads had topped half a million within 12 hours.These figures only cover downloads, too: it's unknown how many people watched Blood Money on unlicensed streaming sites, which have become an increasingly high-profile headache for broadcasters in recent years.According to TorrentFreak's sample of downloads yesterday (12 August), Australian fans accounted for 16.1% of the Breaking Bad episode's BitTorrent downloads, ahead of the US (16%), Canada (9.6%) and the UK (8.5%).It's the latest sign of Australians turning to piracy in greater numbers, frustrated at the often-long delays between big TV shows airing in the US, and being broadcast in their own country.In the UK, there is evidence of a move by the AMC network to drastically shorten this kind of geographical "window", with Blood Money available to stream on Netflix and buy on Apple's iTunes Store within hours of the US premiere.The desire for "instant syndication" is partly being driven by social media, with shows like Breaking Bad and Game of Thrones usually trending on Twitter as soon as they air in the US, risking spoilers for fans elsewhere in the world.AMC tells All Things Digitalthat 5.9m Americans watched Blood Money's premiere on Sunday (11 August), while ratings company Nielsen tracked more than 760,000 tweets from 400,000 users during the broadcast.Shortening geographic windows is one key tactic for the television industry to combat the piracy fuelled by fans' determination to join in the buzz around popular shows shortly after they air in the US.Time Warner chief executive Alan Bewkes made headlines earlier this month when he told analysts that piracy of Game of Thrones – made by his company's HBO subsidiary –was "a tremendous word of mouth thing"."We've been dealing with this for 20, 30 years - people sharing subs, running wires down the backs of apartment buildings. Our experience is that it leads to more paying subs," said Bewkes."I think you're right that Game of Thrones is the most pirated show in the world and that's better than an Emmy."It's safe to assume AMC would prefer a tower of Emmy awards for the final season of Breaking Bad rather than a pile of piracy milestones. Even so, the anticipation around the new series may make the latter inevitable.
The news was, as you would expect, all over Twitter on Monday night. In aQ&amp;A session with game site IGN, Xbox executive VP Marc Whitten has confirmed that Kinect will no longer need to be switched on, or even plugged in, for the Xbox One to function.When asked exactly how "off" the controversial camera and motion control device can be, he replied, "You have the ability to completely turn the sensor off in your settings. When in this mode, the sensor is not collecting any information. Any functionality that relies on voice, video, gesture or more won't work. We still support using it for IR blasting in this mode. You can turn the sensor back on at any time through settings, and if you enter into a required Kinect experience (like Kinect Sports Rivals for instance), you'll get a message asking if you want to turn the sensor back on in order to continue."Many game sites have reported on the revelation, but a cursory glance through news stories from the last few months shows that this policy has been emerging for sometime.Originally, Microsoft's plan seemed to be that Kinect would need to be switched on and unobstructed for games to work. This led to privacy concerns from many gamers, partly thanks to the NSA PRISM revelations that coincided with the announcement of the console, and partly due to a widely reported patent application from Microsoft that mentioned a camera set-up capable of identifying all the viewers in a room.However, inan interview with Eurogamer, Xbox Europe boss Phil Harrison assured consumers that the gadget was not a monitoring device (there arereasons to be sceptical here, though).CNET later spoke to Jeff Henshaw, the group program manager for Xbox Incubation, who said, "The system is designed to have Kinect be an integral part of the experience. It's not the case where you'll be able to remove the camera altogether. But you'll be able to put the system in modes where you can be completely secure about the fact that the camera is off and can't see you."This is essentially what Whitten says in the IGN Q&amp;A article – that the sensors can be switched off to ensure total privacy. However,[UPDATE]he does specifically say for the first time that, "the console will still functionif Kinect isn't plugged in". Clarification from such a senior source has clearly accentuated the point: Kinect is, it seems, no longer a mandatory element in a functioning Xbox One.This has led tospeculationthat Microsoft may be on the verge of announcing a cheaper Xbox One package, without the Kinect device. Sony made the decision to exclude the PlayStation Eye device from its basic PS4 bundle allowing the console to retail at $100 less than its rival.This is extremely unlikely however. Microsoft has continually stressed that it sees Kinect as an intrinsic element of the Xbox One proposition, and is heavily pushing the machine as a social device – the corporation sees Skype video chat as a key selling point.Ina NeoGaf forum post, ostensibly from Microsoft spokesman Albert Penello, he states, "We still believe in Kinect. We aren't interested in splitting the development base. The more demos I've seen, the more I've used it – the more impressed I am. The team feels strongly about Kinect, and I hope we're able to prove that when you use it."We also have a ton of privacy settings to allow people to turn off the camera, or microphones, or put it in a state just for 'Xbox On and IR blasting – there will be a lot of user control for that. The thing we all understood, and hence this change, is that there are some scenarios where people just may not be comfortable. We wanted people to be 100% comfortable, so we allow the sensor to be unplugged."The question now is whether the sidelining of Kinect will affect the confidence of developers who were looking to support the device in more subtle ways – perhaps for voice controls, head tracking or even heart rate monitoring. If the general assumption becomes 'Kinect is off in most households at most times', the impetus to draw on those features could fade.Nevertheless, after the company's other major U-turns, which have seen it turn away from daily online authentication and abandon plans to restrict the sale of pre-owned games, it seems this is the final swerve away from the original Xbox One proposition – a proposition that greatly contrasted with PlayStation 4. While, elements of Microsoft's proposed digital distribution framework are likely to be slowly re-introduced, it is questionable whether third-party publishers will offer the device such a starring role in their titles going forward.
Billionaire investor Elon Musk has unveiled plans for a "Hyperloop" transport system he hopes will one day shuttle passengers and cars between Los Angeles and San Francisco travelling faster than the speed of sound.After almost a year of speculation Musk outlined his plans for the system Monday in ablog post and a 57-page PDF. People and cars would be transported between cities inside aluminum pods traveling a speed of up to 800 miles per hour inside elevated tubes. In a conference call Musk said he had been inspired by the pneumatic tubes used for transporting mail around some buildings.The PayPal founder has long been obsessed with transport and used his fortune to develop electric-car firm Tesla and the private spaceflight company SpaceX. Musk has previously said that Hyperloop will be a "cross between a Concorde and a railgun and an air hockey table."According to Musk's blog post the Hyperloop could act as a fifth mode of mass transport after planes, trains, cars and boats. The billionaire said he was not looking to build the system himself although he was "tempted" to build a demonstration model.Outlining his plans inan interview with Bloomberg BusinessweekMusk said the tubes would be elevated on columns 50 to 100 yards apart and run alongside California's Interstate 5 highway. "You just drive on, and the pod departs," Musk said, estimating that the system could be built for $6bn with people-only pods, or $10bn for the larger pods capable of holding people and cars.Musk said he envisioned 70 pods could travel between Los Angeles and San Francisco leaving every 30 seconds inside low pressure tubes designed to minimize friction and allow higher speeds. "It's like getting a ride on Space Mountain at Disneyland," he said.The system would be a closed loop, designed for cities less than 900 mile apart that have high levels of traffic.Musk described the Hyperloop system at a conference in May and said that the solar-powered system would allow passengers to get from Los Angeles to San Francisco in less than 30 minutes. Such a journey would be five hours shorter than the time it would take to drive.But the investor is unlikely to build any such network himself and is hoping that others will now take up the challenge with him. Talking to Tesla investors last week Musk said he had "shot myself mentioning Hyperloop, because obviously I have to focus on core Tesla business and SpaceX business, and that's more than enough. But I did commit to publishing a design and [inviting] critical feedback to see if people can find ways to improve it. Then it can just be out there as kind of like an open source design that maybe you can keep improving."Musk said he was inspired to look at the project after reading about California's high-speed rail project, a project he has called "a bullet train to nowhere."In his blog post Musk wrote:The underlying motive for a statewide mass transit system is a good one. It would be great to have an alternative to flying or driving, but obviously only if it is actually better than flying or driving. The train in question would be both slower, more expensive to operate (if unsubsidized) and less safe by two orders of magnitude than flying, so why would anyone use it?If we are to make a massive investment in a new transportation system, then the return should by rights be equally massive. Compared to the alternatives, it should ideally be:SaferFasterLower costMore convenientImmune to weatherSustainably self-poweringResistant to EarthquakesNot disruptive to those along the routeThe Hyperloop could meet these criteria, Musk said.Musk talked about his ambitions for the Hyperloop during a Google-sponsored event with fellow entrepreneur and space explorer Richard Branson last week. "You want the future to be better than the past – or at least I do, quite a bit."
What is the NBN?The NBN is Australia's National Broadband Network, a massive infrastructure project to build an accessible superfast broadband network across the country.Why do we need the NBN?Currently, Australia's broadband speeds are slow compared to many other countries, and very uneven – top speeds vary widely depending on where in the country you are. Either party's NBN plan will standardise a minimum connection speed, making broadband access more equitable. Both will replace swathes of old copper which makes up the current network with more efficient and faster fibre-optic cable.The benefits of faster and more reliable broadband range from the ability to reliably stream video, television and audio to the rollout of complex health solutions that could have vast benefits for older Australians and rural communities. Healthcare and education will both benefit, as will businesses, both by using the network and in developing new technologies to take advantage of it. Reliable video conferencing could cut down on the need for commuting and cross-country business travel. And a host of new technologies which rely on fast, reliable connections will grow out of other networks in other countries, as well as Australia, over the coming decades.Who will the NBN reach?Both plans extend across the whole of Australia. Labor's NBNCo plans to connect 93% of premises in the country directly to the fibre network. The remainderwould be connectedby fixed wireless or by satellite, both at much slower speeds.TheCoalition's plan, building on work already carried out by NBNCo, would see 22% of premises connected directly to the fibre network and 71% connected by fibre to the node – 93% in total. Some 4% of premises would be connected by fixed wireless and 3% by satellite.How fast will it be?Labor's plan claims download speeds of up to 1Gbps, and upload speeds of up to 400Mbps. However, the actual speeds experienced by users will depend on what plan they purchase from service providers. In areas where the NBN has already been rolled out,a range of data plansare available – from 12Mbps download/1Mbps upload up to 100Mbps down/40Mbps up.TheCoalition promisesa "download data rate of between 25 and 100 megabits per second", but has not yet made firm commitments regarding upload speeds.How long will it take to build?Labor plans to complete the NBN rollout by June 2021, with 3.5 million premises connected to the fibre network by 30 June 2015.The Coalition: "Aims for the connection work to be completed by late 2016, and for the rollout to be fully complete by 2019.What technology will be used?Both plans rely on fibre-optic cables for most of their network. Labor's plan is to connect fibre directly to homes and businesses – a strategy called "fibre to the premises", or FTTP.The Coalition's plan is to connect fibre to nodes in neighbourhoods, and use the existing copper network for the final few metres of distribution to individual premises – called "fibre to the node", or FTTN. This will limit the speeds available to users, as top speeds will rely on the capacity of the older copper parts of the network. It will also mean building, maintaining and providing power to these nodes.What will it cost users?Under both plans, internet service providers will sell their own plans to customers, after buying wholesale access from the NBN. The end costs to users will depend on the ISP –current retail plans are listed here.Labor will connect all eligible premises in Australia directly to the network with fibre cables, meaning no connection fees. Wholesale prices under their plan are capped, and currently cost $24 per month for 12Mbps download/1Mbps upload speeds, with prices increasing for greater capacity.These prices are frozen for five years, and any subsequent increases are limited to less than the rate of inflation.The Coalition's wholesale prices will also be capped nationally. They estimate that in 2021, wholesale prices will be $38 per month, and retail prices $66 per month. Under their plan, users who want to upgrade their connections to completely run through fibre will need to pay the additional costs of that connection themselves.What will it cost to build?Labor's plan is costed at$44.1bn in total. The assumptions used in making up those costs have been scrutinised in the NBN Implementation Study and it produces annual business plans based on those numbers.The Coalitionestimates its plan will cost $29.5bn.Why does the Coalition claim it will save $60bn compared with Labor's plan?The Coalition says it does not trust Labor's assumptions in four areas – the time it will take to construct the NBN, the cost of connecting each building to the network, the rate at which revenue per user will grow, and the number of wireless-only households. It has constructed its own model based on different assumptions in those areas, and concludedLabor's plan is likely to cost $94bn, not $37.4bn. Labor strongly disputes the Coalition's numbers, and claims its tested projections are accurate.What are the benefits and drawbacks of Labor's plan?• It offers significantly greater speeds than the Coalition's plan, and would give Australia one of the most advanced networks in the world.Completely replacing the copper network would mean no costs associated with maintaining or repairing it.• The use of fibre would mean the network was future-proof – as far as is possible with current technology.• The plan to connect all premises, including those in multiple-occupancy blocks, directly to the network could prove very costly, time-consuming and complex.• Rollout will take time – during which the existing, inadequate broadband network will still be used.• It is more expensive, as currently costed, than the Coalition's alternative plan.• The consistency of provision and reliable speeds mean that bandwidth-heavy systems in telehealth andeducationcan be developed in the knowledge that most users will be able to access them. This could have beneficial knock-on effects in saving future government spending on health and education.What are the benefits and drawbacks of the Coalition's plan?• It is slated to be completed more quickly than Labor's plan, alleviating the current problems more quickly.• The available speeds to end users will vary much more widely and will overall be significantly slower.• Nodes will needpowering, maintaining and upgrading, as will the parts of the copper network that are being retained and used.• Businesses in need of stronger, more reliable connections than copper can provide will need to pay for connection to the fibre network.• The relatively lower top speeds will mean high-end applications, including education and telehealth applications requiring significant bandwidth for upload as well as download, areless likely to reach all users. Current telemedicine tools would tax its minimum capacity – future applications might prove out of its reach. This could have knock on effects in limiting Australia's access to money-saving health and education solutions.• It is cheaper, as currently costed, than the current Labor plan.• The plan brings Australia's broadband capacity alongside networks in other countries such as the UK and Germany, but would not make it a world leader.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Xbox One backlash has been 'unfair', says Peter Molyneux | TechRadarPeter Molyneux has been defending his old employer to Tech Radar. The veteran designer feels the Xbox One manufacturer has been misunderstood:"I know Microsoft, I know they were only doing things because they thought they were long-reaching and long-thinking. But the world we live in now is that we have to realise, especially if you're a big corporation, if you make one step wrong, the world will leap on you, and unfairly, very unfairly, they will judge you.""Like everything else in our world, when something turns slightly bad it goes very bad and you have to make big correctional steps to get yourself back on track."Later though, he stumbles on the real problem with the original Xbox One proposition – messaging:"You've got to give consumers the real benefit of why being online is a great thing for them. Why it's great for gaming, why it's great for their pockets and why it's great for the experiences they're having."GTA Online reveal confirmed for August 15 | VG247Grand Theft Auto Online will be revealed on August 15, Rockstar Games has confirmed. Expect gameplay videos and previews on the day.That's all we have for now!Minecraft Sells 8 Million on Xbox 360, Title Update 12 Detailed | IGNMinecraft on Xbox Live Arcade has reached 8 million sales, according to developer 4JStudios. The Xbox 360 port is quickly catching up to the PC version, which has sold more than 11 million copies on PC.4J also revealed what's coming in the next title update. The world height has been doubled from 128 to 256, new items, recipe updates, difficulty mods, and Creative Mode features.The new mobs are ocelot, Iron Golem and baby villager – my sons are going to love this.Diversifying your team will only lead to better games, says Dragon Age lead | GamasutraDavid Gaider serves as the lead narrative designer for BioWare's Dragon Age franchise. The games are well known among triple-A titles for their gender inclusivity, and in 2011's Dragon Age 2, Gaider and his team wrote all four of the main romance plotlines as being open to both male and female player characters -- which earned them a bit of backlash from certain fans who believed the game "neglected" to cater to their straight white male demographic.More recently, Gaider showed up at GaymerX, an LGBT-focused games convention held in San Francisco. Appearing in a series of panels alongside several of his EA colleagues, Gaider spoke of the need for diversity in games development and the common sense of making all players feel included in one's games.We have a report from the GaymerX event coming in soon...Iwata: Wii U Basic model sales show price isn't the issue | CVG UKIwata has identified the problem with Wii U – it's not the price, it's the lack of games! Aha! Here's what he says to CVG:"If the price is actually an issue [with Wii U], then there is some contradiction between the current sales balance between the Basic and Premium versions of the Wii U.""The basic version should have sold a lot, but the fact of the matter is that people are buying more of the premium version. So the issue is not there.""I understand that the real issue is the lack of software, and the only solution is to provide the mass-market with a number of quality software titles."I feel that I could have told him this several months ago.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
TheNational Broadband Network debatebetween Malcolm Turnbull and Anthony Albanese on Lateline offered very little that was new.The Coalition disbelieves the assumptions Labor has made about its costings, and has substituted its own in order to create a $94bn "cost" for the current plan. Turnbull says the plan has overestimated revenues from users, underestimated the costs of construction and the time it will take, and that there will be more wireless-only households than Labor believes. All this is strongly denied by Albanese, of course, as it has been for four months since the Coalition's policy was unveiled.On Monday night Turnbull accused Albanese of withholding the latest NBNCo business plan until after the election to hide a "bombshell" – but until he does publish it, it's impossible to know whether he's correct. We can only look at the numbers that already exist.Labor's assumptions about cost have been subject to much more rigorous scrutiny and testing than the Coalition's have – not least the initial broadband implementation study. While their revenue rises may be unrealistic, they have at least been accepted by the NBNCo's accountants.The Coalition's numbers won't see such scrutiny until – and unless – they're built into the business plan. Their $94bn figure is no more stable and secure than Labor's own costings – and while Labor has good reason, before the election, to underestimate the costs of the NBN rollout, the Coalition has equally good reason to overestimate them.Touting his questionable $60bn cost saving liberally in debates allows Turnbull to deflect attention from the other differences in policy between the parties. Albanese is not wrong when he points out that there is only a 4% difference in the costs of the two plans to government – and the Coalition makes assumptions about the cost of using Telstra's copper and the costs of maintenance that could prove inaccurate. He's also not wrong to point out that Labor's plan delivers four times the speeds of the Coalition's model.It would be ridiculous to argue that cost doesn't matter. But it is clear that both parties are working from assumptions that cannot be tested except by reality. It's likely that neither is entirely correct about either plan, but the framing of the debate around costs is obscuring the broader and much more exciting question of benefits.The debate should not be about whether we need faster broadband now: that much is painfully clear. But it should also not be about what speeds precisely suit our current needs. Turnbull is right that families now do not need 1Gbit download speeds – but the core question is not what families need now. The question is what speeds Australia will require in 30, 60, 100 years' time, and what wonders we might build on top of such an ambitious, foresighted infrastructure project.The supposed benefits of the NBN are broad and far-reaching, ranging from universally acknowledged elements like healthcare, business and education, to entertainment elements involving TV and video, to potential future uses incorporating efficient power grids, 3D printing and all manner of applications that lurk on our horizons. It promises social and economic benefits delivered as equitably as possible across Australia. The choice at this election will define how many of those purported benefits Australia gets to see, not just in the next decade but in the decades beyond.The Coalition has not yet committed to a minimum upload speed, and guaranteed download speeds of 25Mbps could struggle to support even existing applications, never mind providing a platform for future innovation.Just as Australia's congested road network now demands funds for highway widening and upgrading, an NBN that only brings Australia's internet infrastructure into the present will, in the long term, be more expensive than a future-proof option. If the NBN is simply an attempt to bring broadband in Australia up to current standards for the cheapest price possible, then it risks being obsolete before it has been built.
The release of the video for One Direction's Best Song Ever generated sharp growth for theirofficial YouTube channel, with its monthly views jumping 47% to 133.8m in July.But the British boy band still weren't as popular as a 23 year-old Swede "sharing gaming moments on YouTube with my bros" or a "Butter God" sharing his Minecraft habit with millions of fans.Those channels –PewDiePieandSkyDoesMinecraft– generated 221.6m and 146.3m YouTube views respectively in July, leaving One Direction in third place in industry siteTubefilter's latest monthly chart.Both are part of multi-channel networks (MCNs) on YouTube, with PewDiePie signed toMaker Studiosand SkyDoesMinecraft toMachinima. Their popularity is well known to gamers, but has been more under-the-radar for the entertainment industries whose biggest channels are being left in their wake.PewDiePie added 1.6m subscribers in July, according to Tubefilter, taking him to nearly 11.8m by the end of the month. The channel has generated 2.2bn all-time views and is still growing: views were up 6% in July.Meanwhile, SkyDoesMinecraft added more than 761k new subscribers during the month, taking its total to just under 5.1m. Its all-time views count is now nudging 1.1bn, with monthly views up 8% in July.While One Direction had a good month, adding 682k subscribers to take their total to just under 8m, the chart will make for less-comforting reading for another YouTube-fuelled star, Psy. His channel's views fell 29% in July, although his 115.7m views still put him in fourth place in Tubefilter's rankings.The Top 100 is a good snapshot of YouTube as a place where established pop stars rub shoulders with a new breed of online-video personalities: for everyRihanna(87.8m views),Miley Cyrus(80.6m) orJustin Bieber(68.2m) there's aFine Brothers(87.3m),Smosh(84.8m) orTobyGames(70.6m).Multi-channel networks like Machinima, Maker Studios,FullscreenandAlloy Digitalare continuing to sign and develop emerging YouTubers, but YouTube itself has also been increasingly keen to package and promote them, for example with its recent Comedy Week and Geek Week events.Some industry figures see potential for tension here. US entrepreneur Jason Calacanis suggested last week that YouTube represents a threat to the businesses of the multi-channel networks."If you work for, or have invested in, Maker, Machinima or another MCN (multichannel network) you should understand that YouTube is taking your business out from under you RIGHT NOW!"wrote Calacanis on his Launch blog. "MCNs are toast. They're done. YouTube is killing them."The bigger threat may be to traditional TV viewing, particularly among the younger viewers flocking to the channels of PewDiePie and One Direction alike.Google hasdescribed these viewers as "Generation C", and claimed they are twice as likely to be a YouTube viewer than the general population in the UK, and 40% more likely to be only a "light" TV viewer.However, many television industry executives hope that YouTube remains complementary rather than cannibalistic to traditional TV: a view put most recently by the managing director of Thinkbox, the marketing body for commercial TV in the UK."To set it up as a 'battle' between TV and YouTube is wrong in the first place. Not because linear TV is so much bigger, but because TV enjoys an enormously complementary relationship with YouTube,"wrote Lindsey Clay on the company's blog.However, her claim that "YouTube is also TV's audition room: be talented, go viral, get into the news and you might make it into the professional world of TV and the greater legitimacy, fame and opportunity that secures" deserves to provoke more debate.The end goal for a growing number of YouTubers may not be TV stardom, but PewDiePie-style popularity on YouTube itself, or at least a sustainable career funded partly by MCNs' sponsorship and advertising deals with the kind of brands commercial TV is keen to hang onto.The idea of a healthy flow of talent between YouTube and TV may be correct, but the power balance may be slightly different to Thinkbox's vision: in the future, TV may need the pulling power of popular YouTubers as much as those young stars want or need TV deals.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAndroid is better &gt;&gt; PaulStamatiou.comIt was just meant to be a quick experiment. I started using a Nexus 4. I was going to go right back to my iPhone after a week. I was designing more and more Android interfaces at Twitter and realized I needed to more intimately grok Android UI paradigms. A week in it started feeling normal; the larger form factor was no longer a nuisance. A month in I didn't miss anything about my iPhone. Two months in I sold my iPhone 5 and iPad Mini. It has now been three months since I made the switch. I'm loving Android. I only missed having a good camera so I just upgraded to a Google Edition Samsung Galaxy S4.Amazon Coins increase developer revenues &gt;&gt; The Next WebThree months, and 100 million virtual coins.Amazon says that for around a half of developers who charge for content through the Amazon Appstore, revenue jumped by 50% after Coins were rolled out.City of London orders Renew to stop tracking citizens with bins &gt;&gt; The VergeLess than a month after Renew began anonymously collecting information about people walking past their Wi-Fi-enabled trash bins, the City of London has put a stop to the practice. "We have already asked the firm concerned to stop this data collection immediately, and we have also taken the issue to the Information Commissioner's Office," the City of London said in a statement. "Irrespective of what's technically possible, anything that happens like this on the streets needs to be done carefully, with the backing of an informed public."Rubbish bins should know their place. See also: PR stunts of our time.New York financial regulator hits 22 Bitcoin-related companies with subpoenas &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaThe New York state banking regulator has sent 22 subpoenas to Bitcoin-related companies including BitInstant, BitPay, Coinbase, CoinLab, Coinsetter, and Dwolla, as well as investors Andreessen Horowitz, Google Ventures, and Butterfly Labs. Winklevoss Capital Management was also targeted; the twins claim to own one percent of all bitcoins in circulation."We're not publicly commenting on the subpoenas or whether we received one," Jason Lukasiewicz, the CEO of Coinsetter, told Ars Technica by e-mail. "I think the more important takeaway is that companies in our space can now open up a productive dialogue with regulators."Why is Sony still in the entertainment business? &gt;&gt; The VergeSony slammed the door in the face of a major shareholder last week when it rejected billionaire investor Daniel Loeb's proposal to spin off part of the company's entertainment business. Loeb, whose Third Point LLC hedge fund owns nearly 7 percent of Sony, had suggested selling between 15 to 20 percent of the music and film divisions in order to raise capital, sharpen the company's focus, and boost its long-suffering stock price. But CEO and president Kazuo Hirai, in an open letter to Loeb, says the company's board unanimously voted against the proposal and called 100 percent ownership of the divisions "fundamental to Sony's success."Kim Jong Un visits 'cell phone factory' &gt;&gt; North Korea TechThe North Korean leader visited a cellphone manufacturer in Pyongyang back in May, according to the state news agency, inspecting an Android phone called the 'Arirang'. Pictures show nothing that looks anything like a manufacturing centre. Despite a delightfully upbeat official press release about the visit - "He highly appreciated the creative ingenuity and patriotic enthusiasm with which the officials and employees of the factory laid a solid foundation for mass-producing hand phones by building a new modern hand phone production process" - the best guess is that these are made in China and shipped to North Korea for inspection before going on sale. One assumes that Jong Un chose not to offer any comment on North Korean death camps on this occasion.Dalai Lama's Chinese website infecting visitors, expert warns &gt;&gt; ReutersA prominent computer security firm has warned that the Dalai Lama's Chinese-language website has been compromised with malicious software that is infecting computers of visitors with software that could be used for spying on its visitors.Strangely absent here is any mention here of the motive of this persistent group of hackers, or why they might want to spy on Chinese-language web users visiting the Dalai Lama's site.Google Glass update adds more voice features, movie listings &gt;&gt; The VergeVoice commands on Google Glass are starting to get a lot more robust. For the device's monthly software update, Google is rolling out the first voice commands that can be tapped into by third parties.Regulator examines Bitcoin practices &gt;&gt; WSJNew York's top banking regulator has issued subpoenas to roughly two dozen companies associated with bitcoin as part of a wide-ranging inquiry into the business practices of the fledgling virtual-currency industry, according to people familiar with the matter. The subpoenas, from the New York Department of Financial Services, seek information on a range of topics, including antimoney-laundering programs, consumer-protection measures and investment strategies, according to the people.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
A few years back, after starting a new job in a busy newsroom, I was told I would receive a work-issued BlackBerry, like everyone else, in order to meet pressing deadlines. The company dispatched me to a website to choose the model I would like. As I debated the colors and options with colleagues, my editor wandered by. Battered by deadlines, with a complexion the same color as his gray suit, and with bags under his eyes, he paused by my desk and noted:You do know you're just picking the color of the bars on your cage, right?This was what BlackBerry represented to many professionals just five years ago: the clicky, beepy, adorable yoke-to-work, proving – for better or for worse – that their constant attention was important. Like theTamagotchiof the over-educated, the BlackBerry is a loud little e-toy begging to be fed with constant emailing. It was a device that indicated Work, with a capital "W", was at hand. It was a status-marker of both importance and exhaustion.Now BlackBerry, a company that once ruled the professional smartphone, isputting itself up for sale, perhaps hoping for a private equity firm to take the company private so it can work out its issues in peace.You would have had to have been absent from Earth from the past few years to be surprised at the decline in BlackBerry's fortunes. Public opinion left BlackBerry behind long ago, in favor of the iPhone and Android app economy; Wall Street analysts have been exasperated with the company for ages, taking the "bearish" or negative side on the company's stock rather than the positive one."We fail to see a bull case," MKM Partners analyst Michael Genovese tartly pronounced in June.You can't argue with his financial reasoning, or that of any other analyst who has been down on the RIM stock. There's no question that BlackBerry squandered one of the biggest leads in tech history. LikeOzymandias, the ill-fated pharaoh of the Shelley poem, BlackBerry refused to believe it would ever see its empire decline and turn to dust.BlackBerry handsets have been selling badly in the US, with subscribers declining in North America since 2012. Sometimes, you can't even give BlackBerries away: Arwa Mahdawi, a Guardian contributor who works for Contagious magazine,tweeted Monday:@moorehnOur office in London was recently burgled and the only thing they didn't take were the Blackberries. Speaks volumes.&mdash; Arwa Mahdawi (@ArwaM)August 12, 2013This has been true even though people are clamoring for smartphones, a category BlackBerry essentially invented. MKM Intelligence Community's research found that, by May 2013, 56% of Americans in its survey had smartphones – up from 37% only eight months earlier. Only about 6% of them have a BlackBerry – and they don't plan on acquiring any more, apparently. Of those in the survey who want to upgrade their phones, 57% planned to buy either an Apple or a Samsung.But should BlackBerry give up so easily? ATwitter inquirybrought out this testimonial from a fan:No device makes you more productive than@BlackBerry. Period.@libbylangsdorf@moorehn&mdash; DKNY PR GIRL® (@dkny)August 12, 2013Wall Street, healthcare and other industries that depend on secure information and exact typing – public relations, for instance – are still tethered to the BlackBerry.This is remarkable. We've seen dying companies before that far outlived the usefulness of their products, like Kodak and Polaroid. What's astonishing about the BlackBerry is that it isactinglike a dying company even while its fanbase is very much alive. What form BlackBerry's reinvention will take is anyone's guess – and it will take a genius to do it – but there's no question that the company's brand still has value to many.Some of the Twitter reactions explain why. Jon Robinson, a reader, writes that in this age of frequent hacking, BlackBerry's closed system feels the most reliable to him:My personal information must be guarded. I work in healthcare and patient data must also be protected. No other solution provides the level of security that I think should be expected by all people.BlackBerry also has an advantage with those who are tired of keeping up with the Apple and Android battery of choices. Joe Saluzzi, a co-head of Themis Trading and a BlackBerry stockholder, likes the BlackBerry for its lack of bells and whistles.I'm not a big 'app' guy and mainly use my Z10 for talking (I know, I'm so old-fashioned), texting, email and tweeting.Others said they like the BlackBerry for its instant-messaging service, which allows anyone with a BlackBerry to message anyone else with a BlackBerry for free. On an iPhone or Android, those texts would cost money. Another said that BlackBerry's automatic update of emails, without hitting "refresh", was an appealing feature.Are these features iPhone-killers? Not even close. Apple and Samsung long ago won the popular vote, and there are those who have happily abandoned their BlackBerries and have been happy to talk about the multiple reasons why. I finally gave up my last BlackBerry – after four – when I could no longer stomach numerous headaches with broken scroll wheels and its browser's systematic hostility to loading internet pages.Will BlackBerry be able to capitalize on what some people love about it and turn itself around? It's hard to tell. Brand turnarounds are rare, although they happen.If the company gets new owners, however, they would do well to remember that the BlackBerry invented technological addiction in the professional class – and in some quarters, it still owns that spot. The one-time blockbuster retains its status, for some, as a cult favorite. Surely, that is the place to start.
The Silicon Valley executive who advised women to "lean in" to get ahead in the workplace is now cashing in. Sheryl Sandberg, the second in command at Facebook, has sold 2.4m shares in the company worth $91m (£51m).Sandberg sold the shares – 5% of her total holdings in Facebook – amid growing optimism that the firm is getting to grips with the challenge of selling adverts on smart phones and tablet computers.The stock was sold for an average of $38 a share without her knowledge of the timing, under a pre-arranged plan used by executives to avoid accusations of insider trading. The $38 mark is a significant milestone, as it was the flotation price when the tech company made its much hyped stock market debut in May 2012.The IPO was labelled a disaster as the stock plummeted to just $10 at one point. In recent weeks, Facebook has staged a remarkable comeback, with a big fillip in late July when its second quarter figures soared above market expectations. Sandberg, who worked for economist Larry Summers at the US Treasury before moving to Google, joined Facebook in 2008 as its chief operating officer to help founder Mark Zuckerberg build advertising from its millions of users. In December she sold £50m worth of stock.The 43-year-old executive, reported to be worth $400m, got her equity in Facebook after negotiating with Zuckerberg. But she said she only asked for more money after her husband and brother-in-law pushed her to negotiate for a bigger pay cheque. "No man would take the first offer," she told the Guardian earlier this year. "I felt like I needed a justification for doing it. And it turns out that's what the data says: men can negotiate without apology or justification. It's expected. If women negotiate, they need to justify it. It can't be that you want more for you. Because that's what men get to do."
It is possibly the biggest start-up lawsuit since theWinklevosstwins sued Mark Zuckerberg over their part in the success of Facebook, but a new legal fight is brewing in Silicon Valley over the ownership of Snapchat, an app for sending self-destructing photo messages.The ongoing court case in LA County court has that Frank 'Reggie' Brown IV and Evan Spiegel met programmer Bobby Murphy in the spring of 2011 but by August, the friendship had broken down.Spiegel and Brown continued to build Snapchat without Brown, registering themselves as directors of the company based on a previous project they had developed.Brown now claims that he assumed their new company Toyopa Group had been registered in all three names, whereas Spiegel and Murphy had actually changed the name of their existing company, FutureFreshmen, to Toyopa Group and so retained their respective 60/40 split ownership.Brown is now suing for a 20% share in the company.Brown alleges that the initial idea for the app is his, as well as the design of the logo ("Brown created this logo by directing Spiegel on what to draw, while the latter implemented Brown's direction on Adobe InDesign", in the words of his suit) and much of non-programming work.Spiegel and Murphy argue that ideas are worthless without execution, and that "directing" someone on what to draw is not the same as designing a logo.Spiegel and Murphy currently share 60/40 ownership of Snapchat respectively, and Brown is suing for 20% of the company.Snapchat gained notoreity as an app for sexting [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sexting] but has grown into a widely-used social network, installed on 19% of all iPhones and sending over 50 million messages a day.That's the basis for the company's $800m valuation, and also for the fights over ownership unfolding in theLos Angeles County Court.Court documents show communications between the Snapchat co-founders deteriorating. Photo: LA Superior CourtA flurry of new evidence presented to court includes text messages and emails between the trio - all members of Stanford University's Kappa Sigma fraternity - starting with lighthearted texts in friendly 'brogrammer' banter - and ending with lengthy emails that landed up in court.Both show how the superficial chumminess soon gave way to claims of ownership in Snapchat's hastily won fortune.One message forwarding the initial press release, sent to blogger Nicole James ofThat White Bitch, is headlined: "Yo, gurl, here's an iPhone app I think you'd love...""I just built an app with two friends of mine (certified bros - our frat just got kicked off campus)", Spiegel writes in the email, which Brown has seized on as evidence that he was involved in the creation of Snapchat.He also filed an earlier draft of the same release, which he claims to have written, and which reads "Uhhhh, let's be honest. What betch ever wants anyone to get hold of her pictures? I mean with incriminating photos of lacrosse team captains, rounds of drinks at, and sexy, fun photos of new outfits, a betch would be at the mercy of her captor if anyone ever got a hold of her phone".Even after Brown had first allegedly overheard Spiegel and Murphy discussing their 60/40 split of the company, the "bros" still flew."Dawg that contest poster looks so fucking good haha #patentpendingbrodjsjsjshhajsndkdjs fuck yes fuck yes you and Bobby need to celebrate this shiz tonight", Brown texted Spiegel on 11 August, the day he filed a patent application listing all three of them as co-creators."No chance were celebrating wo you bro", Spiegel replied.But by the end of the week, the problems were out in the open, and the language had tightened up. "I want to make sure you feel like you are given credit for the idea of disappearing messages", wrote Spiegel.The next day, Brown left the house, and walked out of Snapchat for good. A year later, he started legal proceedings.Snapchat may have sounded a great example of brogrammers and fratrepreneurs building a multimillion-dollar apps in their summer holidays, but if your business co-founder finds that he or she has been cut out of the company it takes a lot more than partying hard to fix that slight.
BlackBerry, once the global leader in smartphone technology, has put itself up for sale after years of falling sales and failed revamps.Once seen as so habit-forming its users dubbed it the "CrackBerry", Blackberry has suffered a calamitous decline as rivals revolutionised the business it did so much to start. On Monday the company previously known as Research in Motion (RIM) announced it had decided to "explore strategic alternatives". Buyers are being sought, though the company could also go private or be broken up. Few analysts expect a turnaround.Unable to match Apple's iPhone for cool or the sheer range of devices from Samsung and others using Google's Android mobile system, its market share has collapsed from close to 50% in the US in 2009 to less than 3%, according to figures released last week by the analyst IDC. On the day the news broke, the Z10, BlackBerry's latest, much-hyped device was being offered for $19.99 by US mobile retailer Wirefly. It was selling for $199 when it was launched earlier this year.For BlackBerry watchers, the news is no surprise. The company lost $84m in the last quarter and announced 5,000 layoffs last year. "The beginning of the end started some time ago," said Stuart Jeffrey, analyst at Nomura Securities. He said the company's statement suggested it no longer had any confidence in its ability to get out its current predicament. BlackBerry, he predicts, is likely to re-emerge as a software company, perhaps with some contracts for super-secure government devices, but "without the handicap of all those uncompetitive handsets".How a company that once defined the smartphone messed up so badly is likely to become a classic case study for business schools around the world. The first BlackBerry device, an email pager, was released in 1999 and allowed busy execs to collect and reply to their messages on the go in a way that revolutionized business communications. The BlackBerry Curve, Pearl and Bold followed shortly after, adding cameras and features to broaden the company's appeal to consumers.But then in 2007 came the iPhone. At first BlackBerry relied on its ties to the business community and its perceived advantages in security to fend off Apple's attack. It didn't work. Apple's Steve Jobs had spotted that mobile devices were becoming media devices – powered by the increasing prevalence of Wi-Fi and more high powered mobile networks – music and games were set to be as important as email in the smartphone future. Google was soon chasing Apple in the mobile market with its Android operating system, Blackberry fell further behind. The arrival of apps let people personalise their mobiles and further changed the ways they used their devices.When Apple launched the iPad, BlackBerry responded with its own tablet the PlayBook, which proved a massive failure and underlined how far behind the company had fallen. Blackberry was left looking clunky and uncool in a sector that was becoming ever more fashion conscious and fast moving.In 2012 Marissa Mayer, a hotshot former Google exec, was drafted in to revamp Yahoo, another tech giant with an image issue. One of her first moves was to scrap company BlackBerrys. "We literally are moving the company from BlackBerrys to smartphones. One of the really important things for Yahoo's strategy moving forward is mobile," she told Fortune magazine, suggesting BlackBerry was neither a smartphone nor important in mobile.Even Barack Obama, for long BlackBerry's most high-profile fan, seems to have cooled on the company. As a candidate in 2008, Obama criss-crossed America with his BlackBerry seemingly glued to hand. After his election there were fears he might have to end his CrackBerry addiction due to security fears. But he fought hard, and successfully, to keep the device. "Let the man have his BlackBerry," John Podesta, co-chairman of Obama's transition team, told security chiefs. Without it "he'd be like a caged lion padding restlessly around the West Wing, wondering what's happening on the other side of the iron bars that surround the People's House".The president is still a BlackBerry man and could be spotted bashing away at his device during his inauguration in January. But daughters Sasha and Malia stole the show snapping pictures of their kissing parents on their iPhones. And even Obama now reportedly prefers to use an iPad for security briefings.BlackBerry launched its latest operating system, BlackBerry 10, and three new devices this year. They got positive reviews. But, says Carolina Milanesi, analyst at Gartner, it was too little and way too late. "They have suffered a fate a lot of big guys suffer from. They were the first to market, they created the smartphone as we know it. They just didn't see what was coming next," she said."People can choose what device they want for work these days, and they don't want BlackBerry. Brand is important, cool factor is important, and BlackBerry lost out on that. But even that's not enough these days," she said. "You need the eco-system, you need to offer the same experience on different devices."Smartphones these days are more about music, photos and video than they are about email. BlackBerry for too long relied on its business customers to keep it in the game, said Milanesi. "But these days you don't want to be boring in business."
Google's latest doodle marks the birthday of Erwin Schrödinger, the Nobel prize-winning quantum physicist whose eponymous equation lies at the heart of quantum mechanics.Born in Vienna in 1887 to a factory owner and his Austrian-English wife, Schrödinger was tutored at home as a child and went on to study theoretical physics at the University of Vienna before undertaking voluntary military service, later returning to academia to study experimental physics.Renewed military service during the first world war broke up his studies before he was sent back to Vienna in 1917 to teach a course in meteorology.However, it was not until his late 30s that he was to change forever the face of physics by producing a series of papers that were all written and published over the course of a six-month period of theoretical research.By 1925, then a professor of physics at the University of Zurich and holidaying in the Alps, Schrödinger formulated a wave-equation that accurately gave the energy levels of atoms. It formed the basis of the work that would earn him the Nobel prize in physics in 1933.In subsequent years, he repeatedly criticised conventional interpretations of quantum mechanics by using the paradox of what would become known as Schrödinger's cat. This thought experiment was designed to illustrate what he saw as the problems surrounding application of the conventional, so-called "Copenhagen interpretation" of quantum mechanics to everyday objects.Other work focused on different fields of physics, including statistical mechanics, thermodynamics and colour theory. In a celebrated 1944 book, What Is Life?, he turned to the problems of genetics, taking a close look at the phenomenon of life from the point of view of physics.He died in Vienna in January 1961 from the tuberculosis that had affected him throughout his life and was buried in the western Austrian village of Alpbach.
The New York Times is the latest media company to partner with IFTTT, the startup whose service connects up websites and social networks. Users of the service can nowset six "triggers"relating to content on the news site.They include: when a new article is published in a certain section or matching a specific search query; when an article or blog post becomes popular; when a new Critics Pick film is reviewed; when a new book is added to the NYT's Best Sellers List; and when a new event is listed in a particular category.IFTTT's community is already using these triggers, with example "recipes" highlighted on the service including the ability to automatically post new theatre events into Google Calendar; share popular Business section articles on LinkedIn; and receive an email when a NYT Technology article becomes popular.The New York Times follows in the footsteps of ESPN, which teamed up with IFTTT last year for an Olympic Games partnership, where users could set triggers to receive alerts when certain events happened during the London games.ESPN now has six triggers of its own available for IFTTT users who wish to create recipes based on published stories, matches starting and final scores pushed from ESPN's website.BuzzFeed and YouTube are other media-related channels available through IFTTT, which now has more than 60 such partners. The company's aim is to help people connect up their favourite sites and services without requiring coding knowledge or familiarity with these sites' developer APIs.Media is one of IFTTT's key areas for growth. "For someone like The Guardian or the New York Times, what they're really looking to do is get their media out there, read and consumed – or at least clicked back to," chief executive Linden Tibbettstold The Guardian in July."IFTTT gives people very powerful filter tool about how they want to consume that. It could be articles by a specific author, or which mention a specific topic or category. Think of it as a way to follow that content with any service, whether it's Pocket, Instapaper, email or SMS. Media is a really interesting space for us."IFTTT launched in 2010, raised $7m of funding in early 2012, and recently launched its first mobile app for iPhone.
Apple is thought to be planning the release of two new phones on 10 September, including a much-anticipated cheaper iPhone, dubbed the iPhone 5C.As well as an incremental update to the current iPhone 5, expected to include fingerprint-detecting technology, the iPhone 5C would be Apple's first lower-end phone. Historically, Apple has fulfilled the needs of the low-end market by offering previous years' models at cut-down prices.Industry suppliers have been told to expect the new device in mid-September,but a leak to news site All Things Dclaimed the launch is set for 10 September.At arecent earnings call, Apple's chief executive Tim Cook reiterated that plan to investors. When asked about the potential of a low-cost iPhone to first time smartphone buyers, he replied that the number attracted by the iPhone 4 was "very, very impressive. We want to attract as many of these buyers as we can".He added that "where iPhone 5 continues to be the most popular iPhone by far, we are really happy to provide an incredible high-quality product with iPhone 4 running iOS 6 to as many first-time smartphone buyers as we can."However, there have long been hints that the company was considering going in a different route, perhaps modelled on the iPod product line.During an earlier call in January of this year, Cook pointed to the line as the model of how it thought about low-cost devices, saying: "I think we've had a great track record here on iPod, doing different products at different price points and getting a reasonable share from doing that."Each tier of iPod is a very different product from the others, to the extent that the iPod Shuffle and iPod Touch have barely anything in common.Apple may have switched gears due to a weakness in Chinese sales, or a move to unify the shape of the iPhone line. In July, Cook discussed the slowdown in China, but argued that it was "continuing to invest in distribution, we're going to double the number of retail stores there for the next two years and we're continuing to lift iPhone point of sales and iPad sales, both of which are currently lower than where we would want them or need them today".Additionally, there is a renewed impetus to unify the product line around the iPhone 5's 16:9 screen, the biggest change in form factor since the original iPhone in 2007.Technology analyst Benedict Evans of Enders Analysis arguesthat although "a cheaper iPhone has been discussed almost since the original launch in 2007", costs have fallen and the market developed "to the point that it now makes sense for Apple to offer a $200-$300 [unsubsidised] model".That change boils down to three things: for the first time, Apple could make such a phone (which would be $100 cheaper than an iPhone 4) without having to compromise its sense of design; the fact that the low end of the market in major territories is now big enough to take notice of; and the need for the company to have a critical mass of users to ensure that programmers still think of developing for iOS before competing platforms.As with the iPhone 3GS and iPhone 4S, few extra features are expected for the new top-end iPhone. Instead, a speed boost and improved camera will likely be paired with exclusive software features. The major exception is the possibility of a fingerprint sensor mounted in the home button of the phone. Apple acquired fingerprint security firm AuthenTec last year, and the initial beta of iOS 7 contained settings for a sensor.When asked for comment, Apple reiterated that it "has not announced a press conference".
Lady Gaga's new single Applause may have leaked ahead of its official release on 19 August, but her famously-fervent fanbase is leading the battle to keep the song under wraps.A campaign by fans from Gaga's Little Monsters website hasencouraged the community to reportany site spotted distributing or linking to leaked snippets of the single to her label, Universal Music.Nearly 2,500 fans have retweeted a link toUniversal's takedown page, with one fan boasting of having notified the label about 500 infringing links in a single evening.Update:In a not entirely surprising turn of events, Applause was rush-released this evening to radio stations and Apple's iTunes Store in the US, with other countries to follow.Gaga tweeted the newsin characteristically bullish style as a "POP MUSIC EMERGENCY", blaming the leak on hackers.The fan-led anti-piracy campaign was a turnaround from the usual nature of such leaks, where fans eagerly share the links, and labels – if they choose to respond – file a barrage of takedown notices to blogs and search engines.Applause is the first single from Gaga's upcoming album ARTPOP, with a carefully-planned campaign to release the single on the same day that the album (and itsspin-off app) will be available to pre-order.Gaga herself seemed initially upset by news of the leak, tweeting "Lord, in HEAVEN WHY" and "YOU JUST COULDNT WAIT THIS IS TOO MUCH FOR ONE SATURDAY", before appearing to see the funny side andinviting fellow leakee Katy Perryto "grab some shovels and fuck up some hackers".Such leaks seem inevitable in the modern music industry, though, with few new releases of any note escaping an unexpectedly-early debut. Even Kanye West saw his Yeezus album leak early in June – mere hours after BuzzFeed published an8 Reasons You Won't Hear Yeezus Earlyarticle celebrating his notoriously-strict pre-release piracy precautions.Gaga's objections to the Applause leak are more likely to be artistic rather than commercial. Sales of the single are unlikely to be hurt, but music blogs passing judgement on the track from a few brief snatches seems to have touched a nerve."Dont focus on ANY blogger criticism. I have been a producer/songwriter/musician for over 10 years. Trust the artist bloggers are not critics," shetweeted on Sunday.Gaga's official pre-release plans for ARTPOP, which is due to come out on 11 November, are unclear. It's now common for big albums to be streamed online for up to a week before their release, with Apple among the keenest companies to secure exclusives.iTunes has hosted pre-release streams of new albums by David Bowie, Daft Punk and Justin Timberlake already this year, but streaming services like Spotify and Rdio, and media including Pitchfork, NPR Radio and The Guardian have all been in the mix for similar deals.The availability of the ARTPOP app before the album's release may be a hint that Lady Gaga and Universal intend to host their own pre-release stream for fans, however.Her reaction if the album leaks can only be imagined, although it's likely to be good news for retailers of shovels.
2013 is clearly the year for popular 1980s children's brands to make digital comebacks.British TV show Knightmare returnedfor a one-off YouTube episode,Fraggle Rock was revived as an app, and now Choose Your Own Adventure is set to return.Well, that's if publisherChoosecocanraise more than $130,000 on crowdfunding website Kickstarterto reboot the famous fiction franchise as a series of iOS apps."We want to disrupt the world of cartoons the same way we disrupted your childhood," explains the Kickstarter campaign, which is being led by Chooseco chief executive Ray Montgomery, one of the original Choose Your Own Adventure authors.The series of nonlinear fiction books, which prompted children to make choices at key plot points to take different paths through the storylines, has seen more than 260m copies printed since its debut in 1976.Chooseco has already republished a number of the books as ebooks through Amazon's Kindle store and Apple's iBookstore. Its proposed series of iPad apps – called Choose 'Toons – will take a different angle, as the Kickstarter listing explains:"Choose 'Toons are interactive cartoons based on the best-selling titles of Choose Your Own Adventure books for younger readers. They are aimed at children ages 5-7Our first episode is based on the title Your Very Own Robot, where YOU put together a robot named Gus out of discarded parts from your parents' robot lab. Gus gets you into a lot of trouble. This first episode has 20 story branches with 11 possible endings, with more than 30 minutes total of animation."Focusing on a younger audience is a smart move: people who grew up with the original Choose Your Own Adventure books are less likely to want to re-read them as adults than they are to share the brand with their own children."At the heart of this project is the hope that we will nurture children's imaginations by truly allowing them to become the character," says Chooseco publisher Shannon Gilligan.People pledging $6 to the project will get email updates on the project plus a free download of the Your Very Own Robot app, but as with other Kickstarter projects, there are a series of rewards for bigger pledges.A single backer pledging $1k or more will be drawn as a villain named Boris in the story – "Warning: you will die in 'the End'" – while two people pledging $5k will record 15 minutes of dialogue for a character each.Chooseco is planning to launch the first Choose 'Toons episode in May 2014, and while it's currently slated for iPad only, Android will be on the agenda if the Kickstarter campaign surpasses its $130k target.If Choose 'Toons makes it to Apple's App Store, it will find another famous children's nonlinear-fiction brand awaiting it: Fighting Fantasy.Developer Tin Man Games has released iOS remakes of several titles from Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone's famous series of roleplaying books, including The Forest of Doom, Blood of the Zombies and House of Hell.Tin Mancontinues to work on other Fighting Fantasy titlesand its own line ofGamebook Adventures, while Jackson's game-bookSorcery! has also been revamped as an appby another developer, Inkle.
BlackBerry, the embattled smartphone maker that was once the must-have brand for City bankers and technology geeks, has confirmed it is considering selling the company.The announcement, which follows weeks ofspeculation that it was looking at a range of new ownership options, came just before US markets opened and after trading in the group's shares had been suspended.In a statement, the company said its board of directors had "formed a special committee to explore strategic alternatives" including "possible joint ventures, strategic partnerships or alliances, a sale of the company or other possible transactions".BlackBerry has been losing money after failing to keep up with its rivals – chiefly Apple and Samsung – as increasing numbers of mobile phone users move to smartphones. In its most recent quarter the company lost $84m (£54m) and expects to lose more money in the three months to the end of September.Going private or being bought would allow the company to reorganise its business without the pressure of outside shareholder scrutiny – which is intense after the value of the firm slumped from around $84bn in 2008 to less than $5bn now.In an attempt to compete with its rivals, the company recently announced two new smartphones – the touchscreen Z10 device and the Q10, which includes a mini keyboard favoured by many BlackBerry users.Thorsten Heins, BlackBerry's president and chief executive, said: "We continue to see compelling long-term opportunities for BlackBerry 10, we have exceptional technology that customers are embracing, we have a strong balance sheet and we are pleased with the progress that has been made in our transition."The special committee comprises Heins, directors Barbara Stymiest, Richard Lynch and Bert Nordberg, and will be chaired by Timothy Dattels.
Internet firm CloudFlare has hit back at a technology news site over suggestions that by providing its content delivery network (CDN) services to Chechen news siteKavkaz Center, it is supporting terrorism.CloudFlare was contacted with questions about its policies by journalist James Cook from The Kernel, and chief executive Matthew Prince chose to reply with asharply-worded blog poston its own site declaring its commitment to free speech."One of the greatest strengths of the United States is a belief that speech, particularly political speech, is sacred. A website, of course, is nothing but speech," wrote Prince, who returned to the theme later in his post."A website is speech. It is not a bomb. There is no imminent danger it creates and no provider has an affirmative obligation to monitor and make determinations about the theoretically harmful nature of speech a site may contain."Cook's piece is due to be published today as part of The Kernel's relaunch afterfolding earlier in the year, but as its US rivalPandoDaily has noticed, the text is already available by viewing the source code of its"Coming Soon" page.The article – titled CloudFlare, Terrorists' Little Helper? – makes allegations about the operators and members of the Kavkaz Center site, and claims that it is "kept online" by CloudFlare in part through its use of the company's services "to protect against the frequent DDoS attacks it receives".That's something Prince accepted in his blog post: "Removing this, or any other site, from our network wouldn't remove the content from the Internet: it would simply slow its performance and make it more vulnerable to attack," he wrote."As we have blogged about before, we often find ourselves on opposite sides of political conflicts. Fundamentally, we are consistent in the fact that our political beliefs will not color who we allow to be fast and safe on the web."His comments have in turn been incorporated into the article – "Obviously his squeamishness about poking his nose where he shouldn't doesn't apply to journalism about CloudFlare," retorts Cook – providing a timely row to fuel the website's relaunch.The issue is completely separate to the privacy debate fuelled by the recent NSA revelations, but both highlight the fact that companies like CloudFlare are likely to face growing scrutiny about their policies relating to customers and the data flowing through their networks.In his blog post, Prince maintained that CDNs like CloudFlare should not be expected to take responsibility for cutting customers off until ordered to by a court."If we were to receive a valid court order that compelled us to not provide service to a customer then we would comply with that court order," he wrote."We have never received a request to terminate the site in question from any law enforcement authority, let alone a valid order from a court."
Google ended up adopting "OK Glass" as the activation command for its Glass eyewearrather than "Pew Pew Pew", but the sound of laser guns may yet ring out from early adopters of the device.Developer Sean McCracken has revealed details of his first game made for Glass. It's called Psyclops, andaccording to a post on his Google+ profileis "almost done" and will be "like a 3D Space Invaders mixed with Missile Command".McCracken was one of the winners in Google's If I Had Glass contest to get early access to the device, and has been working on the game since receiving his Glass in late July.Afterposting an Instagram videoof the game last week, McCracken has since published a better-quality video on YouTube showing Psyclops running on a Kindle Fire tablet, to make it clearer what players will see on their Glass' screen:Google has been encouraging developers to start building Glass apps using Android tools, rather than wait for the release of its official Glass Development Kit (GDK) to help."We're still hard at work on the GDK, but in the meantime, you can start designing and developing your awesome ideas with the existing Android SDK,"explained Google in July."Although you won't have all the tools necessary to design the perfect experience for Glass, developing with the Android SDK (API Level 15) lets you try out ideas while you wait for the GDK."McCracken is one of a number of developers building games for Glass. Other examples include location-based strategy gameSwarm!(whose developers appear to have coined the term Massively Multiplayer Online Augmented Reality Simulation); and Battleships-style gameGlassBattle.
How, exactly, do things go viral on Twitter? It's a question that thousands of self-styled social media mavens, gurus and ninjas claim to have the answer to, but Twitter itself should be much better placed to explain.The bad news from the company's latest UK blog post: "There is no single magic formula." That's one finding from Twitter's study of three videos that recently went viral on its network: the Ryan Gosling series of "Won't eat cereal" videos; astronaut Chris Hadfield's performance of Space Oddity; and Dove's Real Beauty marketing campaign."One of the key things we learnt from looking closely at these three is that videos don't go viral in the same way,"writes Twitter UK's Gordon MacMillanin a blog post based on the work of researchers Jake Steadman and Louise Chow. "There are no rules to 'virality' — while some ignite, and spread like wildfire across the web, the growth of others is much more measured, like ripples spreading across a lake."The Gosling cereal videoswere shot using Twitter's Vine app, and became popular when they were "carefully seeded with key influencers" like the Best Vines Ever and Vine Loops accounts on the social network.Meanwhile, Hadfield'sspace-bound cover of the David Bowie songwas a genuine word-of-mouth hit, with more than 90% of its shares on Twitter happening in the three days after he posted his video on YouTube on 12 May. It has since been watched more than 17.2m times.Perhaps most interestingly for brands and their marketing agencies, Dove's Real Beauty Sketches video – which came with its very own #WeAreBeautiful hashtag – was a longer-burning viral success on Twitter "largely driven by a long tail of link-sharing and by positive audience sentiment" growing through "clusters of communities spread around the world".Twitter has published videos showing the way all three videos spread on its network through tweets and retweets. Here's Hadfield's:Naturally, the research's main aim is to promote Twitter to brands and agencies: the blog post's conclusions are that brands should share videos on Twitter, use hashtags, pay for its Promoted Tweets and Promoted Trends ads, and use Vine.The research also comes at a particularly sensitive time for Twitter in the UK, where the subject of trolls – and rape threats towards female users in particular – led to aday-long boycott of Twitterby some users, andpromises by senior Twitter executivesto "make our rules clearer, simplify our abuse reporting process, and promote the responsible use of Twitter".Continuing to attract brands with promises of viral success, while protecting and serving the community of 200m people whose presence makes that viral scale possible, is Twitter's key challenge in 2013 and beyond.
The Pirate Bay has launched its own web browser aimed at people in countries where ISPs are blocking access to it and other filesharing websites.PirateBrowser was launched as The Pirate Bay celebrated its tenth anniversary, despite strenuous efforts from entertainment rightsholders to get the site shut down in recent years."Do you know any people who can't access TPB or other torrents-sites because they are blocked? Recommend PirateBrowser to them," suggests theblog post announcing the browser, which is initially available for PC users."It's a simple one-click browser that circumvents censorship and blockades and makes the site instantly available and accessible. No bundled ad-ware, toolbars or other crap, just a Pre-configured Firefox browser."ThePirateBrowserwebsite explains that the application combines Tor client Vidalia – which anonymises data connections – with the FireFox Portable Edition browser, the FoxyProxy add-on and "some custom configs".The site also claims that the browser is an anti-censorship tool rather than purely for piracy, citing countries including Iran and North Korea alongside the UK, the Netherlands, Belgium, Finland, Denmark, Italy and Ireland as places it expects PirateBrowser to be particularly useful.Users are warned that despite its use of Tor, the browser does not guarantee their ability to surf the web anonymously, with the recommendation that they continue to use a virtual private network (VPN) service "if you are looking for something more secure".PirateBrowser is The Pirate Bay's latest and most significant challenge to the growing number of ISPs that are blocking access to filesharing sites, often after court rulings in cases brought by entertainment industry rightsholders.In the UK, five leading ISPs – Sky, Virgin Media, TalkTalk, O2 and Everything Everywhere – wereordered to block access to The Pirate Bayin April 2012 by the high court, after a case brought by music industry body the BPI.Other sites blocked in the UK following similar rulings includeNewzbin2, KickassTorrents, H33T, Fenopy and EZTV.Such blocks have never been watertight even before the launch of PirateBrowser. Internet users with a working knowledge of proxy services have gone about their filesharing as usual, with the UK's Pirate Partylaunching its own proxy serverin 2012, beforeremoving it after the BPI threatened to take legal action.The launch of PirateBrowser will be seen in some quarters as a hammer-blow for the entertainment industry's anti-piracy strategy of ISP-level blocks, although that strategy is arguably more about deterring casual users than experienced filesharers.Those casual users are unlikely to find and download PirateBrowser. Meanwhile, the entertainment industries' anti-piracy efforts have other elements too, such as a growing focus onpressuring brands and advertising networksto squeeze ad revenues for filesharing sites.
"Do you want to have a go?"A young game designer is offering an iPad to a middle-aged woman. She's here accompanying a small boy who is happily prodding away at another tablet screen – but she recoils from the device in horror. "Oh no," she cries, "I don't play these things". Her husband chips in, "What time does the bingo start?"This is the Dare Protoplay festival in Dundee, an annual celebration of game development, held in and around the town's historic Caird Hall. Usually, this grand building is a concert venue (forthcoming attractions include Jayne MacDonald and the Ladyboys of Bangkok - sadly not performing together), but last week it was filled with stands showing off new game titles developed by local studios. Entry is always free and open to all – some visitors are enthusiastic gamers, others have come in out of curiosity or to escape the persistent drizzle. All will have learned something about the state of the Scottish games industry. How different would E3 be if it were visited, not just by industry insiders deadened to the homogenous banality of it all, but also by mums with prams, and kids, and grandparents?But this is not the main draw. Each year, the University of Abertay'sDare to be Digitalcompetition challenges students from all over the world to make a game in nine weeks. Teams must submit their concepts in January, and from all the entries, a panel of industry veterans selects 15 finalists – these small groups of youngsters then spend a couple of months in Dundee, writing their games from scratch, aided by a coterie of experienced mentors. The resulting entries are then shown off in a huge marquee erected on the town square. Anyone can come in, play games, and vote on their favourites - however, the three titles favoured by the official judges go on to compete for a Bafta award.This year's selection was admirably diverse and accomplished. There were puzzlers, shooters, experiential flying games, and of course, augmented reality dinosaur fast food simulations. Most have been written using the cross-platform development engineUnity, which now seems almost ubiquitous in the indie games community. It allows very fast prototyping of ideas, and also ports easily, so the same code will run on smartphones, consoles and tablets with minimal tweaking. As a result, developers can spend more time on ideas and gameplay and less on technical groundwork. According to one of the judges I spoke to, most of these teams had their games up and running within two weeks – the rest of the time has been spent on iteration and polish.Milkshake RushThere were plenty of ideas on show at Dare 2013.Escape from Dr Nomerac's Lairis a chaotic co-op platformer with decent cartoon visuals and some intriguing competitive elements – another co-operative title,The Deepfeatures gorgeous aquatic environments, where fish swoop for plankton and tentacled monsters lurk in hidden caves.Milkshake Rushis a enjoyably effervescent combination of Diner Dash, Cooking Mama and Fruit Ninja, with visuals heavily inspired, says artist Jane Barrie, by Pendelton Ward.Then there are the augmented reality games. DinerSaur has you serving snacks to prehistoric creatures while zapping food thieves, while the impressive Pygmy Panic is a tower defense game in which a diminutive creature must be protected from hordes of invading monsters. Here, the AR element provides you with a really tactile overview of your battle arena, bringing a new UI/UX element to a familiar genre.Throughout each day, the stands were swarming with enthusiastic kids and competitive teens, hustling for highscores and grabbing at the bowls of sweets that several teams had sensibly placed next to their monitors and demo tablets. As with Nottingham's similarly egalitarian GameCity, there was mutual respect and enthusiasm between visitors and exhibitors. On Saturday, iKnow, the team behind rotating platformer The Unknown, tweeted that one young girl had spent over an hour completing their game, before returning the next day with a picture she'd drawn of the lead character. "Our first fan art!" they joyously proclaimed.The best entry, though, was Size Dos Matter, a fiendishly addictive combination of Tetris and Guitar Hero in which players navigate an expandable block through a series barriers, changing its size to fit the gap available. It's an intense twitch core treat, with an interesting rhythm action element (you have to re-size your shape in time to the music) and lovely, minimalistic visuals. The Norwegian development team excitedly namecheck Super Hexagon as an inspiration, and their title has that same sense of compulsion and purity. it's very much designed for tablets, but Sony should snap this up for Vita. Team Dos is also planning a PC version, which will allow gamers to use their own music to provide the interactive soundtrack.Meanwhile, back in Caird Hall, a selection of local professional studios were also drawing in hundreds of gamers. I liked the Pilot Wings-style tablet game Wee Paper Planes fromPixel Blimp, a simple flight sim with intuitive motion controls and quaintly drawn environments.Coolson's Artisanal Chocolate Factory, meanwhile, is a beautifully stylised word game in which players have to package chocolates with letters on top into differently shaped boxes. Naturally, all the letters have to spell out words, and with the production line of chocs moving ceaselessly on, quick spelling is a must. Developed by husband and wife team Things Made Out of Other Things, the game is out now on the App Store.GlitchspaceElsewhere, there was the minimalist cyberpunk strategy sim Wetware from Reality Council, in which you control a global mega-corp hacking into rival systems to steal secrets and crash their info nodes. I also liked the bright, abstract aesthetic of Glitchspace by burgeoning studioSpace Budgie, which looks like an ambitious combination of Portal, Minecraft and Mirror's Edge. The central conceit seems to be that the player must learn a visual programming language in order to manipulate and explore the environment, but the title is so early in development the team seems unsure of exactly how it'll work. We'll keep an eye on it.For me, the highlight of the indie hall was Dungeon Run, a hugely compelling combination of Grim Joggers, Cannon Fodder and a rogue-like RPG. At the start of the game, you control a small squad of treasure seekers, tapping the screen to guide the whole bunch of them. The procedurally generated environments are filled with chests, monsters and traps, and the idea is to explore as far as possible before all the tomb raiders are killed.Dungeon RunThere's a twist to the permadeath set-up though. At the end of each bout, the player earns XP, which can be used to level-up the next batch of disposable explorers before starting again – it's a smart way of adding depth and encouraging immediate re-play. Set to launch on iOS and Android later this year, Dungeon Run is developed by indie coder Stew Hogarth who came up with the concept during a freelance stint at Dundee-based developer Proper Games. "I was working on a game called Tile Temple Tactics, when they did a company game jam," explains Hogarth. "I participated – because I love jams – and came up with Dungeon Run. Proper Games loved the concept, and wanted to fund the full development. I agreed for a percentage of the revenue. It's a win win win situation really!"As part of the festival, Abertay university also arranged a series of interesting talks and panel sessions. For young developers looking for industry advice, there was Sony XDEV producer Neil McPhillips and DMA old boy Colin MacDonald now the games commissioner at Channel 4. There was Ian Livingstone reminiscing over his life in games of all sorts, there was Philip Long, director of the forthcoming V&amp;A at Dundee, talking about the museum's creative outreach ambitions.Flying in from the States on Saturday, veteran game designer Jessie Schell provided the highlight – an engrossing rumination on the power of Touch interfaces. Schell theorised that, via a combination of virtual reality and robotics, the future of gaming could well be interfaces that reach out to touch us right back. He also demonstrated the unconscious power of touch by skilfully spinning a metal tray on one finger for several minutes – which in itself drew a hearty appal use from the audience. It was fascinating stuff – and Schell will be staying in Scotland to attend Edinburgh's hugely promisingTuring Festival.On Sunday afternoon, the three finalists of the Dare to be Digital competition were announced. Team Dos, Team iKnow and Mazhlele (with their multiplayer maze game, Project Heera) will all be competing for the Ones to watch award at the next video game Baftas. There were other awards too: Kaleidoscope Games won the audience vote with The Deep; Lunavark claimed the artistic achievement and team awards for its surreal vertical scroller, Cosmic Couch; and Team Dos got the Channel 4 award. All will no doubt attract the attention of companies like Sony, Sega, Jagex and Ubisoft who sent mentors and judges.On the first day of the festival, I chatted briefly with Professor Louis Natanson of Abertay uni. Twenty years ago, he taught Dave Jones, the found of DMA design and co-creator of Lemmings, how to code. I asked him why dare to be Digital was important to the university, and to the Scottish games industry in general."It's about the reputation of the University, of course," he explained. "But it is also about opening the minds of young people to the fact that they can make games. It is about demonstrating to society and to parents – who are a key influencers on their children – that the games industry is a serious thing."It is a serious thing, but over the last four days, the 10,000 people who wandered through the Caird Hall and the Dare marquee, also revelled in the fun and creativity of the industry. Even the ones too worried about technology to touch an iPad will have seen their children and grandchildren enthusiastically taking part, and they will have spoken to the smart approachable students and indie coders who made these games. This is a festival all about beginnings; there is potential in all of them.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Xbox One users can share Gold privileges via 'Home Gold' | CVG UKMicrosoft has detailed a new Xbox Live Gold privilege-sharing feature for Xbox One.Called 'Home Gold', it lets an Xbox Live Gold account holder share their Gold status with multiple other Live accounts on a single Xbox One.This includes access to multiplayer gaming, Game DVR, SmartMatch and entertainment apps including Skype and Internet Explorer.The system will allow you to designate your 'Home' Xbox One with universal Gold privileges, allowing any Xbox Live account accessed through that console to benefit from your Gold status even if you're logged out.This is an interesting step back toward the original idea of making digital games available to friends and family for free (although the details of that proposition have never been fully disclosed). Microsoft appears to have learned that you can't thrust change on core gamers; as with the development of Steam, you have to sneak in a few carrots-on-sticks.Sony's PlayStation Hedge Backfires as Dollar Costs Surge | BloombergDetailed piece of analysis on how the weak yen will affect Sony's bottom line, as the company pays for PS4 components in dollars. However, the company maintains it won't be repeating the heavy losses of the early PS3 years:Sony is trying to prevent losses it incurred seven years ago when introducing PlayStation 3. Nintendo led global sales by introducing motion-sensing controllers for the Wii as a new way to play. Microsoft matched the feature with its Kinect peripheral, and won over non-gamers by offering entertainment, such as Netflix and sports, on its Xbox Live service.Sony, left to pitch the expensive $599 PlayStation 3 as a Blu-ray movie player, lost more than $3.5 billion in 2007 and 2008 as the machine languished on shelves. Hirai has said the PlayStation 3 didn't turn profitable until late 2011."We will not generate anything like the losses we did for the PlayStation 3," said Andrew House, CEO of Sony Computer Entertainment.Nvidia Shield review • Reviews • Eurogamer.netEurogamer has a detailed review of Nvidia's entry into the emerging Android console market:Overall, there's the sense that the performance of the software - while best-in-class by Android standards - doesn't quite have the polish to match Nvidia's hardware. Shield itself is beautifully crafted and highly polished, in stark contrast to much of the 3D library, even those titles Nvidia itself has chosen to showcase. There are no real problems with 2D titles of course, but the vast majority of those games will run just as well on a variety of tablet and smartphone hardware.This reflects some of the concerns with the Ouya too. Are the games, especially the 3D games, going to be compelling enough to tempt over the mainstream audiences that these devices are hoping to capture?$1 million Saints Row IV edition includes plastic surgery | Crave | CNETThere's an odd new trend emerging in the world of video game marketing: idiotically expensive special editions. After the Grid 2 Mono edition, which came with a BAC Mono super car, we have the Saints Row IV: Super Dangerous Wad Wad edition. For $1m:That's not so bad when you look at what the package includes. Along with the Commander-in-Chief edition of the actual game, you also get a ticket for a Virgin Galactic space flight, a full-size replica dub-step gun, a hostage rescue experience, a spy training day, a personal shopper, and vacations in Dubai and Washington, D.C.But wait, there's more. This special edition includes a Lamborghini Gallardo. If you're worried about the gas-sucking impact of that car on the environment, never fear. Wad Wad also includes a Toyota Prius to balance things out. Sure, a Prius isn't very gangster, but it does up the absurdity level of the package considerably.This one probably won't turn up in the pre-owned section of Game.Disney Infinity adds Toy Story playset, new characters | VG247Disney Infinity will have new characters from Toy Story, Fantasia, Phineas and Ferb, Frozen and Wreck-It Ralph, Disney announced at D23 Expo this weekend.The company took the opportunity to announce a new Toy Story in Space playset, the sixth announced so far. It includes Buzz and Jessie, while Woody will be sold separately.The included mission line has players relocating the Pizza Planet Aliens to a new world. It includes Space Ranger equipment to help defend the new colony, including hoverpacks, jetpacks, laser blasters, goo blasters, new mounts and more – all of which can be used in Toy Box mode.The new playset is due in October.Alliance wins $1.43m at Valve's Dota 2 tournament The International 3 | GameSpotCompetitive gaming team Alliance from Sweden has picked up $1.43 million after finishing first place in Valve's annual Dota 2 tournament, The International 3.Alliance won the grand final after facing off against team Na'Vi from the Ukraine in a best-of-five format, winning 3-2.The International 3 event kicked off on August 3, with 16 of the best Dota 2 teams flown in from around the world to compete. The event was hosted at Benaroya Hall in Seattle, Washington.Alliance, who finished in first place, will be taking home $1,437,204. Na'Vi will be awarded $632,370 for second place. Malaysian team Neolution Orange placed third, and will be awarded $287,441 in prize money. The event marks the first time that no Chinese teams have placed in the top 3.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
It's Monday! How was your weekend?
Price£15,048MPG47.9Top speed132 mphThe art of disrobing is all about speed. It should be slow, deliberate, teasing… which is why cars make such lousy strippers. They can't wait to get their tops off. The Mercedes-Benz SL can do it in 16 seconds, Audi's A5 drops its top in 15, VW's Golf takes nine, while Mazda claims just five seconds to let it all hang out. The early folding-roofed cabriolets also had to be parked up with the handbrake on before they started unbuttoning. These days they can do it on the hoof – travelling at 15, 20 even 25mph. But Citroën's DS3 cabriolet sets a new record – it can wriggle out of its top at 70mph. And at the first sign of modesty or when the rain starts, it can pull it back on without ever slowing down.Blasting along the A3, my wife had had enough of being lashed with her own hair and decided to close the roof. She held the button down and the canvas canopy started moving from the back of the car towards the windscreen. As the wind roared overhead I fully expected it to act as a cloth wing and for us to take off, Chitty Chitty Bang Bang style. Rather prosaically, it merely clicked shut, and we drove sedately on…You'd think people who buy convertibles would be natural show-offs, but many have a morbid fear of being stuck at a red light while their roof completes its 18-step closing routine. It's quite a bonus to be able to do it on the move, but 70mph is definitely overkill.The DS3 cabriolet – the cloth-top version of the award-winning Citroën supermini – isn't actually a full-blown convertible as its trademark shark-fin side pillars don't retract (ie. dip below the surface). The car harks back to the old sardine tin roll-back roofs of the 2CV and the C3 Pluriel. Some people have been snitty about this, but sitting in a fully exposed convertible on a sunny day in the city can be an intimidating experience. By keeping the sides you get that sense of being outside but not right under the noses of those prying pedestrians on the pavement.Inside out: the DS3 cabriolet's high sides when the roof is open.The main opposition facing the DS3 is the Mini and Fiat 500 convertibles. But the DS3 has an ace up its sleeve: it's the only one of the three that can seat five people – the others are four-seaters. It also has the largest boot but, to accommodate the concertinaed roof, the aperture has been designed like a large letter box – a hopeless solution. Over the week I was testing the car I found myself loading the back seat with shopping through the open roof rather than trying to post the bags into the boot.The Citroën comes with a choice  of three petrol engines (an 80bhp three-cylinder 1.2, a 118bhp 1.6 and  a 154bhp 1.6 turbo – a 1.6 diesel is set to follow). I drove the range-topping petrol version which with the roof down produces a really satisfying sporty exhaust note, but it offered more power than the car needed. The 118bhp would be more than enough.Handling isn't as immediate as the 500 or the Mini, but then this car  is a little bigger and I would trade  go-kart handling for the extra head and leg room any day. Rear visibility with the roof stowed is almost nonexistent, but all models come  with parking sensors.It's posh and stylish and relatively modest – al fresco motoring for the body-conscious.
An elaborate, complex and stylistically very Japanese role-playing game,Tales of Xilliais the latest English release in the anime "Tales of …" series and it is truly an epic. Six hours or more of play is required just for the game to reveal fully how it works, and much longer still to explain the tale itself, a sprawling, magical adventure that darts over seas and across continents.This story alternates between glacially paced dialogues and frantic, number-heavy combat sections. Combat has a beat 'em up flavour, but careful statistics management is the real challenge here; character development in particular is bafflingly nuanced. There is a genuine complexity to these systems, but the line does sometimes blur between "depth" and "volume". Combat is often repetitive and the narrative languishes sometimes in tedium, especially with the help of a few stilted and/or unspeakably irritating vocal performances.Xilliamay be too eccentric and overwhelming for most, but there is real pleasure to be found in the game's epic ambitions. Realistically, however, this is not a game to be played so much as mastered.
When game designer Hiroshi Iuchi sets to work, gamers tend to pay attention. The master of crafting 2D shooters, he is behind cult titles such asIkaruga,Radiant Silvergunand, now,Kokuga. This simple top-down tank game is a basic creature and, unusually, opens at a pace bordering on the sluggish.You are tasked with piloting a futuristic vehicle though maze-like battlefields. Kokuga's new world is a place of frantic shooting as you guide the nimble war machine through clouds of bullets. The objective is consistently simple: destroy everything, survive and push your score up. The game's highlights – along with its deft use of 3D and lavish aural backdrop – are the dramatic, varied boss battles. Equally pleasingly, after that slow start, the rest of the experience soon comes up to pace and whileKokugais nothing like Iuchi's best, it remains a distinctive gem.
Not so long ago, I took a year out with my small children and put most of my belongings into storage. When my time was up, I found myself back in storage staring at a pile of possessions that felt something likeRachel Whiteread'sHouse, but with little idea what it included. The only thing I'd actually missed was my Collins guide to snakes, which for various reasons is handier than the internet.Accumulation is a familiar tale; few of us in the privileged west don't have an attic, garage or spare room stuffed with things we can't admit we don't need. And the problem now extends to our digital lives, equally stuffed with things we've long since forgotten about, have duplicated in some form or simply don't have the time to revisit.Facebook is just one culprit subtly reinforcing the document-it-all mentality of the current state of the web. Just last week, the company spent a portentous 90 minutes briefing the press about anews feed tweakthat will bump "important" but unread older posts to the top of the feed. Given that Facebook claims that 700 million people read its news feed every day, the impact of tweaks at this scale can't be dismissed. But, like every other advertiser-driven site, is the goal of pulling more users into more pages really the most sophisticated way forward?This bloated, unmanageable web of now, overloaded with more than we can read, or share, or like, is unsustainable. Facebook's team of 30 or so news feed engineers would argue that their powerful rankings are constantly improving the search for "interestingness", but the site's synthetic social, faux friendship, distorted reflection of real life does not and cannot document all the nuance of what truly matters to us. Where's the algorithm, or the app, that can meaningfully represent and distil life online and off, that can make sense of the complex constellation of our real lives?Beyond a more sophisticated way of sorting this digital detritus, there is increasing promise in the growth of transient technology. In social networking, the appSnapchathas been lazily labelled a sexting app for teenagers, but thetrue use patternis far more significant. Teens are sending photos and video of themselves that self-destruct after a few seconds – digital natives, it seems, aren't conditioned to cling and record every scrap of themselves. This is hugely significant in the evolution of the social web, a generation looking for liberation from unflattering search results, from parental scrutiny, from the precious, preening portfolios ofTumblr. Snap it, share it, forget it.Viktor Mayer-Schönbergerof Oxford University's internet institute has written compellingly of thehuman value of forgetting, of past events being allowed to fade with time so that we can concentrate on the present moment. Most of the internet's instant history does not allow for that; every fact, every conversation, every memory is a heartbeat away, with all the pain of a break-up email or the uncompromising recklessness of a drunken photo.Being forgettable is as much a selling point as being undetectable online. While Snapchat's ephemeral nature is already being challenged by apps designed to save its content, auto-destruct is a key selling point of services such asWickrandGryphn(vowels seemingly being unavailable at time of naming). Gryphn sends secure text messages that can be set to self-destruct, and Wickr can also encrypt photos, video and audio using, it claims, "military-grade technology";Mission: Impossiblefans will enjoy watching their messages self-destruct.For added bite, Wickr's co-founder Nico Sell told a reporter at theBlack Hathackers' convention last week that it had been approached by the FBI and asked for a back door into its data. "We said no," Sell said emphatically.Encrypt it and then delete it. That's a powerful recipe for privacy and protection, though Wikr's claim does need further scrutiny, given that its founders including a former defence contractor and forensics investigator."Our private communications, by default, should be untraceable," Sell told theNew York Timeslast year. "Right now, society functions the other way around."This hunger for true privacy represents a way of living with a web that is more human, with the protections that private real-world conversations afford. For transience, too, a more gentle drift, fade and flux of our digital ephemera is attractive as a way of managing our currently unmanageable burden of data. Software should be freeing us up, not weighing us down. The web promised to free our cognitive load, as authorClay Shirkywas wont to remark, opening up higher opportunities. The reverse has happened and now we are slaves to big data we are helping create.I once, through bad luck and incompetence, lost everything on my personal hard drive and two backups. I was devastated at the time, the digital equivalent of losing my Rachel Whiteread everything in that storage centre. But I missed nothing from it at all and now I wonder what was even in those 30GB. Now I'm more ruthless about what I choose to keep and selectively store the important stuff in the cloud. But we need the software to do this sifting, sorting and suggesting for us. Internet, are you listening?
Since 2000'sShogun: Total War, developer Creative Assembly has given players the task of dominating history's greatest battlefields. Forthcoming releaseTotal War: Rome II(PC, out 3 September), the long-awaited successor to 2004's first exploration of the era, aims to set a new standard for the real-time strategy series. Commanding fictional general Gaius Fulvius Silanus, you'll order legions into battle, conquering territories to build and ultimately govern the Roman empire. Each squad has different strengths, attributes, and weaknesses – cavalry being vulnerable to ranged weaponry, but benefitting from greater range, for instance. The balance at times feels like an elaborate rock-paper-scissors game, striving to best employ your abilities with the added consideration of using terrain and weather to improve the odds.Victory isn't determined solely by martial prowess, though – diplomacy and political dalliances with the growing senate are also important, while technological research and city expansions have both civic and military repercussions. It's satisfyingly deep, offering intricacy and control at every level. However,Rome IIcan also feel overwhelming. The huge maps, though visually impressive, can leave players struggling to relocate troops mid-conflict, and enemy AI often feels unfairly advantaged. If these points are fine-tuned before the game's release, it could stand as a high point for theTotal Warseries.
It's a bit odd, no, naming a&nbsp;car after a year? In the past. They might as well have called it the Peugeot Five Years Ago. Or the Peugeot Recession Onset. But – and this is where my motoring expertise comes into its own – it's not named after the year: 2008 means it shares DNA with the Peugeot 208 supermini, but it's a bit longer, wider, higher off the ground. A&nbsp;crossover, like the 3007 is to the 307. Except when they decided to name their crossovers by inserting a zero, they didn't think that the one based on the 208 would share its name with a&nbsp;year best known for economic downturn. If Peugeot are planning an even smaller crossover, based on the 107, I'd recommend they call it not the 1007, but the Peugeot 1066, suggesting all-conquering, French, works on beaches… Do you see?Anyway, its arrival chez nous coincided, happily, with a holiday, the annual Cornish greycation, though oddly ungrey this year. I may have mentioned it, but there are now three members of this family. And isn't it extraordinary, when you procreate, how the amount of shit that travels with you increases? Not proportionally, but exponentially. So praise God for that extra zero and the extra space that comes with it.It all went in, just about. The baby and beach shit, windbreaks (not required), wellies (ditto), daddy's midlife crisis kitesurfing shit (double ditto). And we headed west.On the motorway, it's refined, comfortable, pleasant to be in. On&nbsp;a&nbsp;twisty A road, midlife-crisis daddy might have enjoyed a more dynamic drive (that small, sporty steering wheel ain't fooling no one), but being a tight-arse – I mean, keen&nbsp;environmentalist – he enjoyed the fuel-consumption figures. And&nbsp;Jr&nbsp;enjoyed spotting his two new&nbsp;words, birds and planes, through the panoramic sunroof.In spite of its semi-raised stance and semi-rugged appearance, the 2008 comes only in front-wheel drive, but it does have something called Grip Control for optimising traction on mud. I was hoping to test this feature rigorously, given that our holiday accommodation is reached through three fields (most years this means abandoning the car and wading). But there is no mud anywhere, so I can't tell you how it performs off-road, though, of course, that's not what it's really for.It was nice – given the extra shit – to be able to park outside for once. And all in all I'd say the 2008 is an excellent car for a middle-class sojourn in Cornwall. But, coming back, we passed an advert for theRenault Captur, which will clearly be a major rival. And I&nbsp;thought I'd rather be in one of them. It just looks a bit more noticeable, and striking, and modern. Less 2008, more 2018.Peugeot 2008 1.6 e-HDi 115Price£19,145Top speed117mphAcceleration0-62mph in 10.4&nbsp;secondsCombined fuel consumption (manufacturer's figure)70.8mpgCO2 emissions106g/kmGreen rating8/10Cool rating6/10
One Sunday evening in the spring of&nbsp;1864, messenger boys employed by the London District Telegraph Company appeared on the doorsteps of several MPs and other prominent figures across the capital. Each boy carried a telegram in a sealed envelope, and an urgent message, at so late an hour, naturally prompted alarm. "Having only arrived from the country on the previous day," one recipient later recalled, "I feared that a fire or some other casualty had occurred subsequent to my departure." But there was no fire, nor any national crisis. As Matthew Sweet tells the story, in his bookInventing The Victorians, the telegram was from Messrs Gabriel, a sketchy firm of dentists and purveyors of a tooth-whitening powder "as used by Her Majesty". The message was a friendly reminder of their opening hours. "I&nbsp;have never had any dealings with Messrs Gabriel," an anonymous correspondent bellowed in a letter to the Times the next day, "and beg to ask by what right do they disturb me by a telegram which is evidently simply the medium of advertisement?" Today, the letter is included in the archives of the Computer History Museum, in Silicon Valley, and with good reason: that telegram was arguably the first example of what would come to be known as spam.It's tempting to think of email spam as a largely historical phenomenon, too. Sure, messages touting knock-off V!@gra do still arrive, along with pleas from the daughters of&nbsp;dictators looking to launder "15,000,000.00 (fifteen million) US Dollars", and wondering if you'll help. But they're intercepted by spam filters, or else easily identified and deleted. (Human vanities don't&nbsp;evolve much: tooth-whitening products are still a popular topic.) There was a time, in the 1990s, when serious commentators predicted that spam might kill email altogether. But these days, barring the occasional ingenious twist – what if your friend really did have his wallet stolen at the airport, and needs cash? – you'd be forgiven for concluding that the era of spam was over. Yet the alarming realisation you come to after meeting Finn Brunton, a New York University academic and author of the new bookSpam: A Shadow History Of The Internet,is that it's only just beginning.Partly, this is down to the law of unintended consequences: the campaign against spam has worked so well that it's no longer an option for ordinary, slightly dodgy marketers; instead, it's the domain of organised crime. But it's also because the basic logic of spam – that you can foist your message on millions of people, whether they like it or not, at essentially no cost, and that as long as a tiny proportion of them respond, you'll make a profit – has seeped into the rest of the web. Early in his research, Brunton discovered that defining spam was far harder than he had imagined. Where is the line, exactly, between an unsolicited email or a spam blog comment and "clickbait", those seductive Huffington Post-esque headlines that suck up your attention but don't deliver what they promise? Or branded tweets from Pepsi or Samsung that you never asked to see? Or any form of online advertising? Or, for that matter, the people the writer Merlin Mann calls "personality spammers", endlessly polluting your Facebook feed with their frenzied need for self-expression?Spending years immersed in spam has given Brunton, who is 32, a degree of sympathy for spammers. "In the early days, being a spammer didn't involve having a lot of technical capacity; it&nbsp;just meant being able to absorb a lot of hatred," he says. "I wanted to understand what it felt like to be that kind of a loathed figure." His work abounds in genuinely detestable figures, such as Davis Hawke, the up-and-coming neo-Nazi leader who pivoted to full-time spamming after it emerged that his father was Jewish, undermining his prospects as an Aryan supremacist. (He is now on the run from authorities, possibly in Thailand or Belize.) But it's hard not to feel for the more hapless characters in Brunton's narrative: overzealous marketers who didn't grasp how much rage they'd be unleashing among anti-spam activists until they suddenly started receiving stacks of pay-on-delivery pizzas, or automated nuisance phone calls 40 times a night. And it's hard not to admire the ingenuity that led to Pitcairn Island, a&nbsp;windswept rock in the South Pacific, becoming the world's largest per capita source of spam, not because its 60 or so residents are all spammers, but because their computers have been remotely commandeered by a "botnet" system, which lets criminals elsewhere use the islanders' computing power to&nbsp;send millions of messages for free.Illustration: Arthur Chiverton for the GuardianYou could argue that a society is defined by what it deems unacceptable; likewise, Brunton argues, the decisions we've taken about what should count as spam, and what to do about the offenders, make the internet what it is. Ultimately, life online is a struggle to control people's attention. And while the battle against the promoters of bogus Viagra may be nearly over, it's&nbsp;much less clear who's winning the war.Spam today accounts for somewhere between 70% and 90% of all email sent, depending on which estimate you trust, and email spam is far from the only variety. Yet it took years for the inventors of the internet to realise that it might be&nbsp;a problem. Early on, in 1971, an anti-war activist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology sent&nbsp;a message to all users of his network, the Compatible Time Sharing System, with a headline in caps – "THERE IS NO WAY TO PEACE. PEACE IS THE WAY" – but all he got was a slap on the wrist. ("But this is important!" he protested, when his boss told him off.) It was 35 years ago, in 1978, that the first real spam arrived: a dull invitation to a demonstration of new hardware manufactured by the Digital Equipment Corporation. And it was probably later still, some time in the 1980s, that the word "spam" was first used to describe such messages, a reference not so much to the canned meat as to the Monty Python sketch in which the conversation gradually becomes clogged with repetitive junk.As the internet exploded, so did spam, and the&nbsp;challenges it posed weren't merely technical: they prompted a surprisingly deep philosophical dispute about what the net, and the nascent worldwide web, should be. Some of its founding fathers were hippies, dreaming of a new society based on trust, in which policing and government wouldn't be needed; spam threatened that. The growing ranks of home users, meanwhile, resented paying steep monthly phone bills to download what turned out to be newsgroups full of unwanted ads. And they responded with aggression.Spammers got the aforementioned pizzas and phone calls, floods of retaliatory emails and "black faxes", all-black documents designed to waste the recipients' ink. But such shaming tactics worked only as long as spammers could feel shame. The watershed moment is widely agreed to have occurred in 1994, when two married immigration lawyers from Arizona deluged the Usenet discussion system with a message about green cards, then refused to slink away when confronted. The incident made national headlines, and one of the lawyers gave defiant interviews to newspapers. The geeks were&nbsp;welcome to their romantic ideas about the net, she said, but what mattered was the law, which couldn't touch the spammers.Plenty of anti-spam laws did follow, in America and elsewhere, but they always struggled to combat the monumental forces of human vanity and avarice. Spam needs only a minuscule proportion of recipients to be duped in order to be profitable – even before anti-spam laws, 0.2% was considered an excellent response rate – and that proportion can be relied upon. In 2003, a security flaw at Davis Hawke's company, Amazing Internet Products, exposed the details ofpeople who'd paid $50 a bottle for a herbal "male enhancement" productcalled Pinacle [sic], which promised to add "three full inches in length". According to Wired magazine, they included the president of a Californian aeroplane parts firm and the manager of a $6bn investment fund.Such lapses aside, spammers have always benefited from the fact that people who fall for cons generally don't want to publicise their gullibility (or their insecurity about their genitals). The exceptions have arisen when the sums involved have been too large to brush off. In&nbsp;2000, Brunton reports, a US businessman named James Adler tried to sue Nigeria's government and central bank after he paid out more than $5m as part of a mail-based 419 scam (the classic "Dear sir, I am a Nigerian prince" advance-fee fraud) in the expectation that he'd someday receive a 40% cut of a far larger sum. It takes a special blend of cynicism and naivete to fall for a 419: on the one hand, the trick feeds off racist assumptions about Africans being corrupt; on the other, it relies on the victim's confidence that the offer being made is wholly honest – and that, when the funds finally arrive, nobody at the bank will raise an eyebrow. "Which is crazy," Brunton points out. "Banks and law enforcement agencies monitor and investigate unusually large transfers all the time."Not surprisingly, Adler's case didn't get very far. Three years later, a Czech retiree walked into the Nigerian embassy in Prague to demand assistance in recovering $600,000 that he'd spent on a 419 email fraud, much of it borrowed. When informed that no help would be forthcoming, he pulled a gun on the consul and shot him dead.The reason this kind of spam is much less of a nuisance these days isn't primarily laws, though. It's the huge advances that have been made in&nbsp;spam filters, which use complex algorithms to&nbsp;learn to sift the bad emails from the good. The&nbsp;systems now in use don't need to rely on identifying especially spammy phrases, such as&nbsp;"Nigerian prince" or "male enhancement". Instead, by comparing vast corpuses of legitimate email and spam, they're able to determine which combinations of seemingly innocuous words mark a message as suspicious. To use one of Brunton's examples: any of the words "madam", "guarantee", "sexy" and "republic" might appear in legitimate email, but an effective filter will learn that they almost never all arise together except in spam. ("Litspam", those incongruous snippets of old novels one occasionally encounters in spam emails, is an effort to beat this system.) Oddly enough, one person who deserves credit for the relatively unclogged state of your inbox is Kenneth Lay, the late and disgraced chief executive of Enron. Academics who developed spam filters had trouble finding sufficiently large quantities of non-spam email to&nbsp;study, until US authorities published the 619,000 internal emails they'd seized in the course of investigations.Illustration: Arthur Chiverton for the GuardianAnd yet the decisive blow that filters struck to old-school email spam may only have helped it mushroom elsewhere. Much modern spam isn't designed for consumption by humans at all; instead, it's "robot-readable", created by one non-human entity for the attention of another – specifically, the "spiders" that crawl the web compiling data for Google – in the hope of pushing a&nbsp;junk page higher up the list of search results. Meanwhile, the rise of social networking has seen the growth of numerous new types of&nbsp;spam, including the creation of vast armies of&nbsp;fake Twitter followers. If you've ever been suddenly retweeted by scores of obviously fictional accounts, it's because a spammer somewhere is building a stable of fake personas, engaging in plausibly human-seeming online activity, so that he or she can charge someone else money for ostensibly boosting their followership. (And if you're ever tempted to buy&nbsp;Twitter followers yourself – there are numerous such services online: £14 or so will buy&nbsp;you 20,000 – you can assume that they're not real people.)Not that classic spam no longer exists; it has just slipped beyond the reach of law, into the purely criminal world of phishing attacks and online banking fraud. In 2011, researchers analysing the&nbsp;money trail behind one email, advertising Viagra-style drugs, found that the web domain involved was registered in Russia, hosted in Brazil&nbsp;and managed in China, taking payments through a Turkish server to an Azerbaijani bank, with the product eventually dispatched from Chennai in India.Define spam in the abstract way that Brunton prefers, though – as "[using] information technology to exploit existing gatherings of attention" – and it becomes easier to see that, in&nbsp;a&nbsp;sense, it's everywhere online today. One interesting example: Demand Media, the "content farm" that operates sites such as eHow and Livestrong, pays humans (poorly) to write articles selected on the basis of what web users are searching for. Hence such eHow masterpieces as How To Wear A Sweater Vest and How To Sign Up For A Yahoo Email Account and How To Catch A Horse. Is that spam? The web, Brunton points out, has been colonised by clickbait – "vast algal&nbsp;blooms of linked content with catchy titles, top-10 lists about trending topics, wild claims, and needlessly contrarian stances, all delivered with only a few hundred words per article." Are&nbsp;their publishers spammers? And, if so, why not also "the canny [newspaper] editor who knows that sex, serial killers and how-to stories sell"?There can't be definitive answers. The point is simply that human attention is a resource, and that it's possible for others to consume yours at little cost to themselves, which means it's a resource that's easily abused. Of course, society couldn't function if people weren't allowed to impinge on your attention to some degree. But how to draw the line between acceptable and unacceptable intrusions, and how to fight the unacceptable ones? Such questions matter, because they end up determining how we spend our attention online, and thus – in an increasingly connected world – how we spend our lives. For prompting us to reflect on such things, perhaps the penis-enlargement salespeople of the world deserve our grudging thanks.•Spam: A Shadow History of the Internet, by Finn Brunton, is published by MIT Press at £19.95.
Samsung violated two of Apple's iPhone patents and must end US import of some of its products, the top US trade court ruled Friday as the smartphone giants clashedonce more in court.In a mixed ruling the International Trade Commission (ITC) found that Samsung had unfairly used Apple technology in some of its devices. It issued cease and desist orders banning further imports of some Samsung products. But the ITC dismissed four other claims made by Apple.The verdict came as Apple asked an appeal court to force Samsung to stop using iPhone features that a jury had declared to be in violation its patents.In the latest salvoes in the long running battle between the world's top two smartphone manufacturers, Apple is seeking to overturn a court order that allows Samsung to continue to sell products that use the disputed patents.William Lee, of the law firm WilmerHale, told the US court of appeals in Washington: "Apple spent five years and $5bn to develop a product and it was a revolutionary product. Samsung said: 'We can copy it easily.' They spent three months to bring a product to market."Samsung lawyer Kathleen Sullivan argued that monetary compensation would be an adequate remedy for any infringement.Samsung has disputed the patent infringements and Apple's claims that it has suffered material losses as a result of the breaches. But last year a California jury found against the South Korean company and awarded Apple more than $1bn in compensation. The jury ruled that 26 of Samsung's products violated six Apple patents. Judge Lucy Koh later denied Apple's request to ban the sale of the products found to be in breach. Koh ruled that Apple had failed to show any harm it may have suffered in the market was due to Samsung's infringement.The dispute comes at a difficult moment for Apple, which is losing market share to smartphones using Google's Android operating system, many of which are made by Samsung. According to IDC, Apple's share in the worldwide smartphone operating system market fell in the second quarter of 2013 compared to the same quarter last year. Android and Microsoft's Windows Phone both increased market share.In court on Friday, Samsung's lawyers argued that Apple had not shown a "causal nexus" linking the sales dip to patent infringement. Some 23 of the 26 disputed products have also now been withdrawn from the market. The appeals court is not expected to rule on its case until the autumn.In June the ITC ruled that Apple had infringed some of Samsung's patents and banned imports of some older iPhone and iPad models made to run on AT&amp;T and T-Mobile USA networks. Last week the Obama administrationoverturned that ban.
Two American companies which provided encrypted email services – one to the NSA fugitive Edward Snowden – have abruptly shut down the service, apparently following US government pressure to let it read users' messages.Lavabit, which is believed to have been used by Snowden and which claimed to have 350,000 customers, closed after apparently rejecting a US government court order to cooperate in surveillance on its customers by allowing some form of access to the encrypted messages on its servers.Its founder Ladar Levisonwrote on the company's website: "I have been forced to make a difficult decision: to become complicit in crimes against the American people or walk away from nearly ten years of hard work by shutting down Lavabit."Snowden – whose whereabouts are still unclear – told Guardian columnistGlenn Greenwaldthat Lavabit's decision to close rather than provide access to user content was "inspiring" and asked why internet giants such as Google and Facebook "aren't fighting for our interests the same way small businesses are."Silent Circle, another American company which had offered encrypted email – where messages stored on its server would be unreadable – also announced on Thursday that it was ending its "Silent Mail" service, "to prevent spying".After the Lavabit shutdown, "We see the writing on the wall, and we have decided that it is best for us to shut down Silent Mail," the company said in a statement. "We have not received subpoenas, warrants, security letters, or anything else by any government, and this is why we are acting now… It is always better to be safe than sorry, and with your safety we decided that in this case the worst decision is no decision."It said that it would still offer its Silent Phone and Silent Text offerings, which provide encrypted voice and text messaging: "We don't have the encrypted data and we don't collect metadata about your conversations," it said – an allusion to thecollection by the NSA of metadata about phone calls made in the USfrom phone carriers including Verizon.Mikko Hypponen, chief research officer at online security company F-Secure, told the Guardian: "From what Lavabit said, I assume they were asked to put in a back door to give access, or weaken their encryption, and they didn't want to do that." He said that encrypted email services were useful to "all sorts of people – whistleblowers, people working under totalitarian governments, but also people who want to send threatening emails or plan bad things. It's like cash. Drug lords use that. So do you and I."Privacy advocates called Lavabit's decision unprecedented. "I am unaware of any situation in which a service provider chose to shut down rather than comply with a court order they felt violated the constitution," said Kurt Opsahl, a lawyer with the Electronic Frontier Foundation.Meanwhile, the whereabouts of Snowden, whose revelations about the NSA's work have proved so explosive, remain unclear.Snowden's lawyer Anatoly Kucherena said the National Security Agency leaker had registered his place of residence with the authorities, as all foreigners must do, but did not divulge the location out of concern for his safety. A migration service official said on Friday, however, that Snowden had not submitted documents to register in the capital."We don't have these records. I don't have any such information. He's not in Moscow," said Olga Kirillova, head of the Moscow branch of the Federal Migration Service, news agencies reported.Snowden's father Lon has submitted the necessary documents for a visa to visit Russia and plans to come in August, his lawyer said. Kucherena told journalists earlier this week that
Silver Lake Partners, the private equity group steering PC giant Dell to a $25bn retreat from the stockmarket, may be trying to add smartphone maker BlackBerry to the portfolio to create a corporate computing powerhouse.Executives from BlackBerry recently met Silver Lake to discuss "potential collaboration" in enterprise computing,according to Reuters, which also said BlackBerry's board was "increasingly coming around to the idea" that a private buyout would give the Canadian mobile group time to fix its problems away from the demands of the stock market.Exactly the same rationale – of working in freedom from the market's quarterly demands for profit – has been used by founder Michael Dell to justify thebuyout of Dell Computer, which has been delayed due to rows over voting. A new vote will be held on 12 September.A combination could solve the two companies' separate problems at a stroke – remedying Dell's lack of any significant smartphone or tablet offering, and possibly helping overcome BlackBerry's dwindling consumer base and continued losses. It could also fill a gap for large businesses which need a single vendor for secure smartphones and PCs, one analyst has suggested.Dell is struggling to cope as the PC market on which it made its name shrinks. In May it reported quarterly profits down 79% to $130m, with revenues down 2% to $14bn. Brian Gladden, Dell's chief financial officer,blamedpoor uptake of Microsoft's new Windows 8 software, calling it "not necessarily the catalyst that we had hoped it would be" for PC sales, which overall have shrunk for the past five quarters.BlackBerry's shares have fallen by more than 19% this year alone as its new Z10 and Q10 handsets have so far failed to enthrall buyers. From a peak of $84bn in 2008, the value of the company has shrunk to less than $5bn. According to the Reuters report, one source said there was "a change of tone on the board" at BlackBerry as it considers its position as its smartphone shipments and global subscriber base dwindle. The company has lost $212m over the past year and dropped out of the world's top five smartphone suppliers. Its short-term cash pile has remained at around $1.5bn.Silver Lake has form as a technology matchmaker. In 2009 itbought the internet phone company Skype from eBay for $1.9bn; two years later it sold it to Microsoft for $8.9bn. It has also completed leveraged buyouts of semiconductor businesses and business phone systems.BlackBerry has already had to shift its stance in the face of competition. Its BlackBerry Messenger, once exclusive and a strong selling point that kept consumers loyal,will be offered on iPhones and Android phonesthis year as it tries to compete with messaging apps such as WhatsApp and Snapchat.But it is the corporate market where BlackBerry's most loyal – and potentially most valuable –  customers are found. Its BlackBerry Enterprise Server (BES) provides robust encryption that is relied on by many financial institutions and businesses. And on Friday it had good news as the US defence departmentsaid it had approved the Z10 and Q10 softwarefor use on its networks – potentially opening the door to huge, lucrative, long-term contracts with the US military.Dell, meanwhile, is pulling back from the declining consumer PC market and has increasingly focused on government and enterprise customers.Combining the two could produce benefits, but could it work? Benedict Evans, technology and telecoms analyst at Enders Analysis in London, said: "I'm not sure how being owned by Dell solves BlackBerry's problems. What does that combination do that isn't still challenged by the business environment?"But he added there was still a crucial gap in the enterprise market: "Dell has backed out of mobile because there isn't scope for it to be in the smartphone and tablet market. But if together they can find the right corporate story – which neither has yet – it could work. The problem is that Microsoft has dropped the ball on mobile – that means it doesn't have a compelling mobile services story for enterprises."Sources at large enterprises have told the Guardian that Microsoft's Windows Phone lacks certain security features that would let them deploy handsets running the software more widely - while BlackBerry and, more recently, Apple's iPhone can be used for broader rollouts. The iPhone and iPad havealready won approvalfor use on Pentagon networks.Asked about the reports of meetings with Silver Lake, a BlackBerry spokesperson said it "does not comment on rumour and speculation".Sources close to Silver Lake denied the rumours.Five IT glitches - and their solutionsNokia:Finland's former ruler of mobile has been thrown into loss by the rise of Samsung and Apple in smartphones. It has bought a network infrastructure business from Siemens (Nokia Siemens Networks) to provide cash and profit.Exit strategy:Microsoft is rumoured to have investigated the handset business. Selling that would leave the profitable NSN.HTC:Taiwan's smartphone maker is warning of its first-ever losses this quarter and being steamrollered in smartphones by Samsung at the high end and Chinese rivals at the low end.Exit strategy:get bought by Chinese handset maker or rising PC/smartphone group Lenovo. Politically uncomfortable.Acer:After two loss-making quarters, the Taiwanese PC maker is trying to find alternative revenue sources to Microsoft's Windows, including Google's Chrome and Android tablets.Exit strategy:merge with Taiwanese neighbour Asus and hope the combined PC and tablet market picks up.AMD:US chipmaker, continually outdone by Intel, lost $1.2bn on revenues of $5.4bn (£3.4bn) last year. Its market valuation is just $2.8bn, but nobody would want it.Exit strategy:rent its existing chip foundries to companies looking to make their own chips. Or convert them into Amazon warehouses – they're big enough.Nintendo:Japanese games maker whose Wii had the wow factor in 2006 has seen sales of its new Wii U bend downwards. Smartphones and tablets now occupy more of the "casual gamers" it could count on.Exit strategy:kill the Wii U, offer its signature Mario and other games on iPhones and iPads, and reap the benefits.
Barack Obama hosted a summit on government surveillance and digital privacy attended by Apple chief executive Tim Cook, Google vice-president Vint Cerf and the boss of US telecoms network AT&amp;T on Thursday.The US president attended in person, sources told thePoliticoblog, as did other technology company executives. Additional attendees included representatives of the Center for Democracy and Technology and Gigi Sohn, leader of internet campaign group Public Knowledge.The meeting was apparently prompted by growing concerns among US technology companies that revelations from the Guardian and others about the extent and depth of surveillance by the National Security Agency, and the companies' obligation to allow access to data under secret court rules, could be damaging their reputation and commercial interests abroad.The gathering followed a closed-doors meeting earlier this week with Obama's chief of staff Denis McDonough and general counsel Kathy Ruemmler at the White House.On the agenda at Tuesday's meeting were the surveillance activities of the NSA, commercial privacy issues and the online tracking of consumers."This is one of a number of discussions the administration is having with experts and stakeholders in response to the president's directive to have a national dialogue about how to best protect privacy in a digital era, including how to respect privacy while defending our national security," one official told Politico.McDonough and Ruemmler met members of the Information Technology Industry Council, TechNet and Tech America, which represent a range of companies from defence contractors to digital giants Facebook, Google and Microsoft.Campaigners including the American Civil Liberties Union and the Electronic Privacy information Center were also present, Politico's Tony Romm reported.The Guardian's revelationsabout the breadth of the NSA's access to data, particularly relating to foreign individuals, has created PR problems for US companies. Apple has set its sights on China as a huge potential growth market, but if people there fear eavesdropping by the US government it could harm sales. And Google stands to lose business in cloud computing to European rivals if customers fear similar eavesdropping. Cloud computing companies have estimated theycould lose billions of dollars of businessas a result.The White House is also battling to respond to growing unrest over surveillance of citizens by the state and the vast caches of data many digital giants are now storing about individual consumers.Obama has promised more public debate about the country's counterterrorism activities and privacy safeguards in general amid signs of widespread support for NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden, but officials have so far declined to provide details about this week's technology summits.The meetings came as a wave of Americans posted messages of support to the former security contractor, whose leaks exposed the extent of government sponsored surveillance in the US and Europe.Awebsitelaunched by the digital rights group Fight for the Future on Wednesday has attracted more than 10,000 posts expressing support for Snowden's actions. Billed as an exercise to put faces to statistics, the website features a combination of photographs of individuals holding up signs and written words of support.In June, Reuters/Ipsos found 31% of respondents believed Snowden was a patriot, while 23% thought he was a traitor. Another 46% said they did not know. Gallup found in June that 53% of respondents disapproved of government snooping programmes, while just 37% approved and 10% had no opinion.In a statement, Fight for the Future cofounder Tiffiniy Cheng said: "We've seen an unbelievable response already – the messages keep streaming in. The government reads the same polls that we do. They know that Snowden has the public's support. But now we're adding faces to those statistics. As someone who volunteered and worked for Obama's election, I feel totally burned by the president's civil liberties and human rights records. If he truly cares about representing the American people, he should turn his attention to shutting down the NSA's illegal surveillance programs, and leave Mr Snowden alone."The website was launched shortly before Obamapulled outof a presidential meeting with Russia's leader Vladimir Putin in Moscow next month. This followed Russia's decision to grant Snowden asylum.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad devices.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. There's a separate roundup for Android apps, which waspublished earlier in the day.For now, read on for this week's iOS selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest iPhone and iPad appsposts).Disney Animated (£9.99)An enormous treat for Disney fans, this. It's an app covering the animation in all 53 of the studio's movies, starting in 1937 with Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs. The app digs deep into concept art, painted backgrounds, storyboards and the transition from hand-drawn to computer-animated scenes, including the chance to animate Wreck-It Ralph's Vanellope yourself. There's also a timeline of every film, plus a "Color Map" containing every scene from every movie in thumbnail form.iPadTube Map Live (Free)There are a fair few London tube-map apps drawing on data from Transport for London, but this one's special. It shows trains making their way around the capital's underground network in real-time (or, at least, as near real-time as the data allows. Useful, but strangely hypnotic too.iPhone / iPadGlow - Conceive With Confidence (Free)This app could be invaluable for anyone trying to conceive: a fertility app with advice and reminders, a calendar tracking the best times to hit the sack, and the ability for both partners in a relationship to enter data from their iPhones. Future updates promise charts, the ability to download and print your data, and communication features between partners.iPhoneRadio Alan: The Alan Partridge Player (£0.69)Launching alongside the Alpha Papa film, this app is for playing your own iTunes library, with Alan Partridge providing between-song patter. It's tailored for some artists ("Keep your clubs away from his young, it's Seal"), recognising their tracks if they're stored on your phone, and recommending them on the iTunes store if not. The clips come from web-series Mid Morning Matters, with the promise of more material to come.iPhone / iPadFetch - A Boy and his Dog (Free)Publisher Big Fish Games releases a lot of games, but this one has been generating much more interest than usual among iOS gamers already. It's a beautifully-crafted adventure following a boy's quest to rescue his dog. The game is free to try, with a £1.99 in-app purchase unlocking the full thing.iPhone / iPadMister Maker – Let's Make It! (£2.99)He's hugely popular on CBeebies (and elsewhere in the world), but now Mister Maker has an official app. It's based on the craft-focused children's TV show, getting kids to create their own digital artworks, complete Minute Make challenges inspired by the show, and share the results with proud family members.iPhone / iPadWorms 3 (£2.99)17 years ago, I was regularly playing Worms on a PC at 3am with fellow students at university. In 2013, I'm playing Worms 3 on an iPad at a more sensible hour of the day. That's progress for you. This is an all-new game for iOS, with turn-based online multiplayer, a decent single-player campaign, and a clever card mode and class system adding strategic depth. New to Worms? It's worms blowing one another to smithereens, is all you need to know.iPhone / iPadGoogle AdSense (Free)If you use Google's AdSense advertising network, this is an invaluable app, tracking your key stats on the go including earnings, top custom and URL channels, payment alerts and ad units / site reports.iPhoneWuaki.tv (Free)Wuaki is a streaming TV and films service that's aiming to provide Netflix and LoveFilm with some competition in the UK. Owned by online shopping giant Rakuten, it offers a mixture of purchasing, renting and subscribing to get access to its catalogue of video: the idea being that if shows or movies aren't available as part of the subscription, users can buy or rent them from the same service, rather than having to go elsewhere.iPadMixBit (Free)MixBit is the latest video-sharing app that wants a piece of Vine, and it's the work of a company set up by YouTube co-founders Chad Hurley and Steve Chen, who are hoping to get people creating videos together rather than alone. You shoot clips between one second and one hour long, then edit them together before sharing through social networks, or on MixBit itself.iPhoneBreast Self Examination Guide (Free)Coventry University's new app is a mobile guide to Breast Self-Examination (you may have guessed this from the title, of course), helping women examine their breasts for lumps that may be cancerous, discovering them in time to seek a medical opinion early. The University worked with the NHS on the app.iPhone / iPadThe Economist Anthology Series: Innovation (£1.99)This latest app from the Economist collects together articles, videos and interactive elements from its technology coverage, including future cars, nuclear power and the frontiers of computing. A good way to quickly dive in to some of the magazine's latest deep-thinking.iPadAmateur Surgeon 3 (Free)Adult Swim certainly knows how to grab people's attention on the App Store. "Have you ever wanted to operate on a mutant bear with a chainsaw?" asks this game's listing, albeit in shouty capitals. It's a gruesomely comical surgeon sim that sees you slicing up an array of characters with "inappropriate tools". In-app purchases aim to help reduce the death count.iPhone / iPadShutterfly Photo Story (Free)This iPad app belongs to US photo-printing service Shutterfly, although it's available here in the UK too. It's a way to create a photo book on the device, then order a physical version or share it digitally. Photos can be pulled in from social networks Facebook and Instagram as well as Apple's Photo Stream feature, with the printed books starting at $19.99.iPadTimeline American Civil War (£3.99)Publisher Ballista Media's historical apps with Dan Snow in the UK have been really impressive, but now they're expanding to the US with this American Civil War app. Built around a timeline of the war, it includes maps, photos, text and commentary from various experts on the period, with recordings and sheet music for contemporary songs adding atmosphere.iPadJim Henson's Chatter Zoo (£1.49)Don't recognise the TV show? That's because there IS no TV show for this, yet. It's the first time the Jim Henson Company has debuted new characters in an app before other media, working with UK startup Mindshapes. The app is aimed at 2-4 year-olds, with four baby animals to play with and care for, plus stories.iPhone / iPadMikey Hooks (£1.49)Bags of character in this sideways-scrolling action game from developer BeaverTap Games, which sees you running, jumping and hooking your way through 36 levels. It's beautifully put together: comparisons to vintage Mario Bros from happy early-reviewers aren't wide of the mark.iPhone / iPadAGOGO (Free)It's early days for AGOGO, but it's an interesting idea: bringing together music, podcasts, audiobooks and radio-style news and traffic reports, and recommending you different content types depending what you're listening to at the time (for example, artists who are featured in the podcast you're listening to). It's US-centric, although the music – provided via Rdio or Spotify – is global.iPhonePixieDust (Free)Children's drawing apps are ten-a-penny, but few of them are genuinely good. This one is: an app for kids to scribble with digital pencils, crayons and paintbrushes, while customising their creations with virtual stamps and textures. Everything can be saved and shared, with different themes available for parents to buy via in-app purchase.iPadChamp Man (Free)Before I was a Worms-addicted student, I had a pretty serious Championship Manager habit, although as its developers shifted to the Football Manager franchise, I was one of the fans that went with them. Can Champ Man win some of us back in 2013 with a new free-to-play incarnation on iOS? It looks well worth a try, with 21 playable leagues and accurate data for the new season. With Football Manager Handheld also very impressive, the rivalry goes on.iPhone / iPadThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
What wasLavabit?It was an extremely secure email service, set up by a group of programmers in Texas in 2004.Are normal emails not secure?Not really. On Gmail, for instance, you may notice an ad at the top of the page that has been personalised by scanning the contents of your inbox. Google points out that "no humans read your email in order to show you ads", but that's discounting the NSA, which can nose around almost anywhere it wants,as you may have heard.What made Lavabit different?A key selling point was something called "asymmetic encryption", which came with the "enhanced" and the "premium" account, which cost $8 and $16 a year respectively.And what is asymmetric encryption?It's a complicated way of scrambling email messages to prevent the wrong people reading them. You have your own password that encrypts and decrypts messages, and this is linked to a different one that is used by the people who read and write them. The scrambling would happen before your messages were downloaded on to Lavabit's servers, meaning that they couldn't read your emails even if they wanted to, and nor could any government agency, unless they had your password.Was it completely unbreakable?No. Nothing is. Codes could theoretically be intercepted en route between computers, or cracked inside yours, but the amount of work involved in that would deter most casual snooping.Could Lavabit be forced to release what it has anyway?Perhaps. In June, the company complied with a warrant concerning a child pornography suspect in Maryland. Theannouncement from Lavabit's owner, Ladar Levison, explaining why he is shutting it down also implies that he is being put under pressure to release more.Who used Lavabit?Edward Snowden, apparently, with therather unsecretiveemail address edsnowden@lavabit.com. Plus about 350,000 other people who mostly prefer to remain anonymous.What should I use now?That's difficult. There are a lot ofemail encryption services available, but Lavabit may not be the last specialist company to come under unwanted scrutiny. Another company, Silent Circle, has already shut down and deleted its email service because its co-founder Jon Callas claimed he could see "the writing on the wall". As Levison put it, in his message to Lavabit's users: "This experience has taught me one very important lesson: without congressional action or a strong judicial precedent, I would _strongly_ recommend against anyone trusting their private data to a company with physical ties to the United States."
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day.For now, read on for this week's Android selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest Android appsposts).Sine Mora (£3.99)This visually-impressive shoot 'em up has won bags of critical acclaim on console and iOS, making its debut on Android something of an event. It's a horizontally-scrolling game whose graphics would blow you away, if there weren't lots of enemies trying to do exactly that. It also does a good job of catering to more casual shmup players while using its well-tuned scoring system to provide a lasting challenge for experts.FableScapes 2 (Free)Pitched as an "educational storytelling game", this is designed for children to make up their own tales using its virtual puppet theatre with three scenarios: pirates, knights and wizards, and space. Kids pose the virtual characters and objects and change their expressions. Better still, it's designed to be used by parents and children together: bonding, not digital babysitting.Wuaki.tv (Free)Wuaki is a streaming TV and films service that's aiming to provide Netflix and LoveFilm with some competition in the UK. Owned by online shopping giant Rakuten, it offers a mixture of purchasing, renting and subscribing to get access to its catalogue of video: the idea being that if shows or movies aren't available as part of the subscription, users can buy or rent them from the same service, rather than having to go elsewhere.Klyph for Facebook (Free)Why would you use an unofficial Facebook app when the official one is so popular on Android? The developers of Klyph reckon you'd do it because that official app is "ugly" and "slow". Fighting talk, but their app is an interesting attempt to craft a Facebook app that's more Androidy in its design – "like the Google+ app but for Facebook" as they put it.Guardian Cross (Free)Guardian Cross is a trading-cards RPG game from Square Enix, the firm behind the Final Fantasy games. After 1.3m downloads on other devices, it made its Android debut this week, which should bump its community up considerably. The gameplay involves capturing and training up Guardian characters, then battling other players.Shrek Alarm (£1.29)Your chance to wake up with a friendly big green ogre (insert own husband-or-wife jokes here). This officially-licensed app stars Shrek, and is part virtual character and part alarm clock. You can poke and tickle the gentle giant, set the alarm to play your own music or Shrek sounds, and check the weather forecast. One for fans.Samsung Wallet (Free)If the name didn't make it clear, yes, this is an app for Samsung Android devices only. It's Samsung's equivalent of Apple's PassBook: an app to store boarding passes, vouchers, event tickets and membership cards. It'll work with compatible apps, with its appearance on the Google Play store a way for people to get their hands on it if they don't have a brand new device with the app preloaded.1941 Frozen Front (Free)This excellent strategy game from publisher HandyGames is set on the eastern front of the second world war, letting you play as either the German or Russian forces. It's a turn-based wargame with infantry, tanks and bombers to command, with pass-the-device multiplayer supported as well as a campaign mode. Engrossing.Volkswagen SmileDrive (Free)This appears to be US-only for now, but it's an interesting app: "the first social app to maximise fun on every drive" as Volkswagen America puts it. It runs in the background while you drive, tracking location, distance, time and weather, and gathering all that data together with any photos you've taken en route.Music Player (Remix) (£3.22)Quite a few developers are working on music players to replace the default app on Android – seeTunester in last week's roundupfor another example. Among Music Player's features are bigger controls (good for fat-thumbed users like me); intuitive swipe controls; customisable shortcuts and a nice set of widgets.Joyful Executions (Free)This satire of North Korean propaganda wasrejected by Apple on iOS, but has made its way onto Google Play uncensored. It involves commanding a firing squad ordered to "process endless waves of various enemies of the state to keep the Divine Leader happy". Possibly not one for Google's Eric Schmidt to mention next time he visits North Korea...1 Second Everyday (Free)I like this idea: an app for recording a one-second video clip of your life every day, then sorting them by date, backing everything up to Google Drive, and letting you watch a compilation based on the last month, year or any sequence of dates. It's free for 30 days, then charges a 99-cent fee to carry on.Twisty Launcher (Free)So, one of the show-off features of the new Moto X smartphone is the ability to launch its camera with a twist of your wrist when holding the handset. Inevitably, someone's already figured out how to do that in an app for other Android smartphones: Twisty Launcher is the result. "All you need to do is hold your phone in your hand and flick to the left twice to open your camera," it explains. The idea being that it's a quicker way to fire up the camera when you spot a photo opportunity.Bloop - Tabletop Finger Frenzy (£0.61)This looks very good fun: a multiplayer game for Android tablets where you sit round the device with up to three other players and each try to tap as many tiles as you can. Bloop? That refers to the sounds the tiles make when tapped, adding a musical element to the game (or, as developer Noodlecake Studios puts it: "symphonic success or dissonant disaster").One Cent Call (Free)Despite the name, this is aimed at British mobile users paying their phone bills in pounds and pence. The idea: micro-donations to charities each time you make a call or send a text message. You can choose the charities from a range available, setting how much you want to donate a month. Donations are taken from your phone bill, with O2, Vodafone, 3, Virgin Mobile and T-Mobile supporting it so far.Death off the Cuff (£0.65)This app has plenty of charm: a text-adventure murder-mystery inspired by Hercule Poirot. Well, Poirot if he didn't know what he was doing, anyway: "You must bluff your way through the traditional revelatory monologue at the end of a crime story," explains developer Simon Christiansen. "Can you make the murderer reveal him- or herself, without letting anyone know that you hadn't already solved the case?" A fun idea.DraStic DS Emulator (£5.29)I can't help wondering how long this'll be available on Google Play, but for now this Nintendo DS emulator is causing a big stir among Android gamers. It promises to play "many" DS games at full speed, with support for add-on controllers or physical buttons on gaming-focused devices like Nvidia Shield and Sony's Xperia Play. And yes, any game files you run "must be legally obtained from a Nintendo DS" – watch to see what Nintendo makes of it.Sight &amp; Sound (Free)Published by the British Film Institute (BFI), Sight &amp; Sound is the well-established film magazine that's been going for more than 80 years. This provides access to digital editions, including the last two years of back-issues.WebMD Pain Coach (Free)WebMD is one of those websites I often end up on when researching ailments through Dr Google. It also publishes apps though, with its latest release aimed at people with chronic pain conditions. It helps them track their symptoms, get tips on relieving pain and share details with their doctor. Conditions covered include back, neck and nerve pain, Fibromyalgia, migraines and Rheumatoid arthritis.Nun Attack: Run &amp; Gun (Free)Finally this week: nuns. Nuns with guns. Yes, they're running. This game from Frima Studio is part endless-runner and part Sister Act (but with less singing and more shooting). Holy power-ups, chainsaw-toting skeletons and "bad-ass weapons" all feature.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
Google'sProject Looninitiative wants to provide internet access for the developing world from a network of balloons floating in the stratosphere. Former Microsoft boss Bill Gates isn't keen on the idea."When you're dying of malaria, I suppose you'll look up and see that balloon, and I'm not sure how it'll help you. When a kid gets diarrhoea, no, there's no website that relieves that,"Gates told Business Week, in an interview about the work of the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation."Certainly I'm a huge believer in the digital revolution. And connecting up primary-healthcare centres, connecting up schools, those are good things. But no, those are not, for the really low-income countries, unless you directly say we're going to do something about malaria."Gates also questioned Google's commitment to projects in developing countries through itsGoogle.orgarm and related initiatives."Google started out saying they were going to do a broad set of things. They hired Larry Brilliant, and they got fantastic publicity," said Gates. "And then they shut it all down. Now they're just doing their core thing. Fine. But the actors who just do their core thing are not going to uplift the poor."Project Loon was announced in Juneas Google launched a pilot scheme with 30 balloons above New Zealand, providing internet access through receivers on the ground."We believe that it might actually be possible to build a ring of balloons, flying around the globe on the stratospheric winds, that provides Internet access to the earth below," explained project lead Mike Cassidy at the time, suggesting speeds could eventually match today's 3G networks."As a result, we hope balloons could become an option for connecting rural, remote, and under-served areas, and for helping with communications after natural disasters. The idea may sound a bit crazy – and that's part of the reason we're calling it Project Loon – but there's solid science behind it."Google has worked with organisations trying to tackle healthcare in developing countries through its Google for Nonprofits initiative, with case studies on its website forDirect Relief International,UnicefandCharity: Wateroutlining some of its efforts.Meanwhile, Google.org'swebpage for its Crisis Response activitiesmakes prominent use of a photo of someone using their mobile phone in the aftermath of a disaster in Haiti, supplied by the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation.Gates' views on malaria are heartfelt, though. It'sdescribed as a "top priority" for the Foundation, which has so far committed nearly $2bn (£1.3bn) in grants towards research into treatments, diagnosis and mosquito-control technologies, as well as $1.4bn to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.This sits alongside the foundation's work towards eradicating Polio. "If we get credibility from the polio success, we can be more articulate about a malaria or measles elimination plan," Gates told Business Week. "The big one would be malaria, but that's a long-term, in-my-lifetime-type thing, not imminent."
Scottish culture minister Fiona Hyslop has spoken out about the lack of women taking up creative roles in the games industry. While attending theProtoplayindie gaming festival in Dundee on Thursday, the MSP for Linlithgow stated that more needed to be done to attract young girls into game development."I'm very keen to make sure we counter this drift toward a male-dominated environment," said Hyslop. "We need to tackle the concept of women in gaming: women play games, but we want them to create games, we don't want them to be just consumers."The problem, says Hyslop, is in the teaching of science and maths subjects at an early age. "A lot of it is about the wider education system, about STEM [science, technology, engineering and maths] subjects and how we encourage young girls to be interested early enough," she said. "I've already made statements in parliament about our intention to tackle this; we need to make sure primary school teachers, most of whom are women, are comfortable with programming. We need to try to get girls interested early. The government in Scotland is very committed to this – the employment minister Angela Constance has been meeting with people in the industry and looking into how we can promote that."The annual Protoplay event is organised by the University of Abertay to showcase the finalists in its Dare to Be Digital games development competition. Students from all over the world are encouraged to enter game concepts. The teams with the most promising pitches are then invited to stay in Dundee for nine weeks to develop their ideas into playable prototypes. Around 10,000 members of the public are expected to attend the event, which takes place in Dundee city centre, and also features talks and presentations by local game developers.The paucity of women game developers has become a major issue in the industry.Research by Develop magazineearlier this year found that only 6% of UK development staff are women and that, on average, they earn £3000 less than male counterparts. Everything from the once geeky image of games to the lack of role models in the technology sector has been blamed.Although the image of gaming is improving, thanks partly to the ubiquity of smartphones, which have made games more widely available, female developers attending the Protoplay event have come up against familiar barriers. "I always got my brother's hand-me-down computers – it was seen as a boy's thing when I was growing up," says Sophia George, who is about to take up a new position as the Victoria and Albert Museum's game developer in residence. "I said no, I want to do it. We can't give up!"Game developers Sophia George and Erin Michno: 'There are exciting things happening'Erin Michno is co-founder of experimental development studio Quartic Llama and has helped run programming courses using the cheap Raspberry Pi computer. "I was the only woman on my games technology course in the entire year. It's such a shame. And afterwards I'd run into women who would say, 'Oh, I wish I could have done that'. It's about getting the knowledge out earlier on."There are exciting things happening though. The girl scouts of America have a games programming badge. That's about encouraging girls at a really young age. You don't have to wait until university to start learning about game development. There are things like the MIT Game Lab and Scratch, that's programming for seven-year-olds, and then there's Raspberry Pi which has organised programming events."You get people saying, 'Oh, I don't know how to programme', so you just say, 'Okay, well, what do you want to make?' Don't make it about the maths or science, because it can be a bit intimidating, it's more about: what do you want to create? We can show you how to do that. That way people find out, 'No wait, maths is awesome, I can use it to make stuff!'"Part of Sophia George's role at the V&amp;A will be talking to school children about game development and design – she sees mentoring as a vital element of getting more girls into games. "I hope more women game developers are open to it," she said. "I don't feel like I had any role models growing up."In the US,a Twitter storm over industry sexismlast year led to the formation of the #1reasonmentors hashtag, which has allowed newcomers to contact established women developers. "There is a greater community now," said Michno. "Even a few years ago it was harder to find mentors, you had to do more digging. Now it's much easier to say, 'Yeah, that's who I want to be like'."For Hyslop, Protoplay is part of the process of communicating the benefits and rewards of a career in game development. "I'm delighted there are talks on women in gaming here," she said. "It's fantastic that developers are going to be working with primary school teachers who have never done programming, so how are they going to inspire the next generation, and particularly girls?"Stephanie Bazeley, an entrant in this year's Dare to be Digital game design competition: 'Girls should just go for it'On the show floor, where the competition entrants show off their games to the public, there is an upbeat mood among the large number of female students and graduates who have joined competing teams. Stephanie Bazeley is the programmer on a team named Prehistoric Spatula, showing off a promising augmented-reality iPad game called Dinersaur."I actually wanted to do a different course, but when I visited Abertay I thought, 'You know what? I could do gaming'," she said. "It's been the best four years of my life. I discovered games through my old Dreamcast, but at the time I never considered what went into creating them. It's amazing. Girls should just go for it."
A month ago, I changed the hard drive on my Dell laptop using an image of my previous drive. All went very well until yesterday, when I started getting a message that my version of Windows is not genuine. I have tried re-activating with no success. I cannot even get Microsoft to verify my licence because their exe won't run. Also, Windows Updates no longer work.FrancoDell and other PC manufacturers license the cheapest form of Windows, where it is integrated into the PC and can't be moved, though it can be upgraded. In these cases, Windows is pre-activated in the factory using an OEM SLP (Original Equipment Manufacturer System Locked Pre-installation) key. This key is usually locked to the BIOS chip on the motherboard, so it should automatically reactivate Windows even if you change the hard drive and other parts. Certainly, the built-in SLP key should work if you re-install Windows from Dell's recovery partition. If your created recovery media or backed up the hidden partition, you could try using those.Your Dell should also have a second (different) Windows key, known as the COA SLP. This is the key on the Certificate of Authenticity (COA) sticker that should be on the back of your laptop, or possibly hidden inside the battery compartment. You should also be able to use the COA SLP key to activate Windows 7, but this will probably involve a phone call to Microsoft.When online activation fails, you should be given the option to choose a phone number to go through an automated activation process. Follow the instructions on Microsoft's website:Activate Windows 7 on this computer. Only if that fails will you have to describe the problem to a human being.Microsoft gives you 30 days to activate your copy of Windows 7, with increasingly frequent prompts, which is why it has become a real problem now. It seems it's being seen as a new installation. If so, there should be a link that says "Activate Windows Now" in System Properties. If not, you can go to Start and type slui.exe into the search box.Note that you have not bought anything from Microsoft: you are a Dell customer. Microsoft has no way of knowing what Dell shipped or how it set up Windows on your PC. If the activation system fails, you will need to call Dell for support.Also note that Windows Update should work in one respect: you should be able to download critical security patches, but not non-critical or optional updates. Unfortunately, it seems that Microsoft does not regard updates to its anti-virus product, Microsoft Security Essentials (MSE), as critical. If you continue to use it, add some regular scans withMalwarebytes Anti-Malware.Activating Windows 7 on a MacI am trying to install a copy of Windows 7 Pro OEM operating system software on a new Apple iMac running Parallels. The software installed OK, but later I got the message about it requiring Activation. When I typed in the Activation key, obtained from the software wrapper, I was informed that the product key could not be used to activate Windows on that computer, and the software is now referred to as being not genuine. I purchased it believing that it was.MalcolmYou are allowed to install Windows 7 Pro OEM in a virtual machine, as long as it is a genuine copy. SeeHow to know you're buying genuine Windowsfor help with this.OEM versions are sold at a reduced cost and have a number of limitations. The main ones are that (a) Windows is locked to a single motherboard and can't officially be transferred to another PC; and (b) you don't get any support from Microsoft. (You are the OEM system builder, soyouhave to provide the customer -- your good self -- with support.)Windows 7 should prompt you to download Windows Genuine Advantage, if it hasn't already done so, and this should provide a way to activate the software. WGA checks that the key code isn't already in use, and I think creates some sort of hash value for the system on which it's running. (OEM versions often lock to the BIOS chip, but your Mac doesn't have one.) When online activation fails, you should be offered a Microsoft phone number to call. Activation over the phone is usually quick and painless. Further to the link mentioned above, there's an excellent, illustrated guide to the process:How To Activate Windows 7 by Phone Step-by-Step Guide.Note: after my email reply, Malcolm talked to Microsoft Customer Support and says: "It was a genuine copy, so there was no problem."Logging in to the GuardianThe Guardian website login is no long working with an exceptionally helpful program, 1Password (you recommended it once). The problem sort of appeared gradually, but now it happens every time. I contacted AgileBits and a member of their support staff says: "Yes, there appears to be an issue with that floating login window. I cannot get it to work with 1Password. I also was unable to locate an alternative login page that didn't use the floating window. Sorry, but it looks like the Guardian's website is currently not 1Password compatible."Is there a basic login page that I can bookmark to allow me to use it?RossIf you need help with the Guardian website, it's much better to write to the Guardian's own help staff, who are now atuserhelp@theguardian.com. They're quicker -- I usually only post one answer per week -- and they are much more familiar with potential problems than I am. They provided a quick answer to your question: you can use the log-in page athttps://id.guardian.co.uk/signinIf you write to userhelp@theguardian.com, remember to include full information about your device. This should include the operating system version, the browser name and version, and the names and version numbers of any ad-blocking or similar software. Usually you can get this information by clicking on each program's About menu, or on Help and then About. You should also mention if the same problem happens when you use a different web browser.Replacing Webroot's Windows WasherLast month, EB asked for advice on "any privacy software that would most closely match Webroot's Window Washer -- now discontinued, sadly." I replied inHow can I protect my PC's privacy, and my IP address?I've now had a nice email from Webroot's new UK PR agency (hence the delay) which says: "I just wanted to point out that Webroot has a solution similar to Windows Washer (but more capable) called SecureAnywhere. You can see a comparisonhere. SecureAnywhere is the same price as Window Washer was, but offers many more benefits."I'm surprised EB didn't get emails offering an upgrade – or perhaps he missed them – and I've kicked myself, Google search, Wikipedia and a few others for not mentioning SecureAnywhere to someone looking for an alternative to Windows Washer.SecureAnywhere replaces a number of Webroot programs, including Spy Sweeper, Antivirus with Spy Sweeper, and Internet Security Essentials. Unlike Window Washer, it "protects smartphones and tablets, PCs or Macs," can lock or wipe a stolen smartphone or tablet, and automatically backs up files online.
With NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden having beengranted temporary asylum in Russia, he's enjoying a break from running away from the US authorities. On mobile devices, it's a different story.Meet Snowden Saga – Escape from Den of Iniquity, the first mobile game inspired by Snowden's exploits. Launched as a free download foriPhone, iPadandAndroid, it's safe to say it takes some liberties with the real-life story."Snowden Saga - Escape from Den of Iniquity is a spy action game about Snowden, an ex-secret service agent who got wrongly convicted of a crime he didn't commit," explains its App Store listing."He has has escaped the jail with the help of some friends and now you take control of Snowden and help him escape the authorities that are following him, guide him through tricky paths changing gravity in a sci-fi world; don't forget to collect the top secret documents to get info on how to save himself as well as his country."The game is an endless-runner in the vein of Temple Run, complete with laser-door traps and the promise of "mind-blowing 3D visual effects" from its India-based developer Moong Labs, whose previous releases include Slap Thy Neighbor, Jump Monkey Jump and the keyword-stuffed Viking Rush – Clan Defenders' Glory Clash Chronicle.Is it any good? Let's just say based on The Guardian's play-test this morning, Snowden Saga seems unlikely to trouble the upper reaches of the App Store charts.Moong Labs has done well to get the game approved by Apple, though. The company has a track record of rejecting games based on real-world political hot potatoes, including the North Korea-themedJoyful Executions, Syria-basedEndgame: Syriaand border-control satireSmuggle Truck.Snowden Saga's sci-fi setting may have saved it from that fate, while its careful avoidance of saying which "authorities" are chasing its Snowden character will have eased it past Apple's App Store rule that "'Enemies' within the context of a game cannot solely target a specific race, culture, a real government or corporation, or any other real entity".
No one would describe News Corp Australia's view on the National Broadband Network (NBN) as rosy. But if it's true the company has engaged in repeated attacks on the government because it "hates" its network, as Fairfax columnist Paul Sheehanclaimed at the weekend, the big question seems fairly obvious. Why?Shadow communications spokesman Malcolm Turnbull deserves much credit for bringing the Coalition to the policy position of supporting a national broadband network, albeit one that eschews the fibre-to-the-premises (FTTP) model being executed by Labor in favour of a fibre-to-the-node (FTTN) approach, with a reliance onexisting copper infrastructureto complete the delivery of services to the home.Turnbull rejected the crux of Sheehan's argument: that Labor's NBN is a greater existential threat to News Corp's pay TV companyFoxtelthan the Coalition's own policy.On his website, he wrotea rebuttalto Sheehan's Fairfax piece, claiming: "[t]he Coalition's plan for the NBN will bring the day of reckoning [for the Foxtel business model] much sooner".Turnbull stated that Foxtel was already adapting well to the "internet threat" and repeated his claim that, by improving broadband speeds more quickly than Labor's policy, his own approach to the NBN is hardly likely to be favoured by Foxtel or News Corp.All of this has led to a situation in which:Labor is decryingMurdoch's criticism of its NBN as being the product of vested interests the Coalition is apparently courting, rather strangely, Murdoch's disapproval of its NBN policy as some sort of badge of legitimacy.So, spin aside, let's try to get some facts on the table.What's going on?Telstraowns the 50% of Foxtelthat News Corp does not. Foxtel enjoys a virtually unchallenged position in the provision of pay TV services largely due to Telstra's control of the means of distribution on its hybrid fibre-coaxial (HFC) network (which combines optical fibre and coaxial cable) in the highly profitable metropolitan markets.As the wholesale operator of what is currently the only efficient means of delivering pay TV in urban markets – an HFC network (Optusoperates another) – Telstra controls the price and conditions by which any new entrant might provide a similar service to Foxtel.This position was bolstered by Foxtel'sacquisition last yearofAustar, the company which delivered pay TV to regional and rural Australia via satellite.While it's certainly true Foxtel suffers regulatory restrictions in Australia – primarily throughanti-siphoning legislationthat ensures premium sport content is offered first to free-to-air television – and that those restrictions have prevented it achieving the same levels of market penetration as it has in other countries, the company remains the only viable option for Australian viewers wishing to access pay TV.An open, wholesale, fibre-to-the-premises NBN – the Labor version – would undermine the Foxtel business model by allowing new traditional-type pay TV providers and Internet Protocol Television (IPTV) to compete on an even playing field in the pay TV marketplace.Prime Minister Kevin Rudd and Member for Solomon Luke Gosling visit an NBN fibre haul site in Darwin. Gary Ramage/AAPClick to enlargeIt is true, asTurnbull states, the Coalition's plan will deliver faster broadband speeds nationwide – enough to support IPTV services as they currently operate –sooner than Labor's NBN.But this ignores the reality of broadband use in the home: there's no allowance for the use of other applications at the same time as the operation of IPTV.Watching and learningDespite the over-excited claims of "tech-heads", there's little evidence viewers are completelyabandoning "linear" (traditional, scheduled programming)TV in favour of downloading content on-demand. Rather, on-demand viewing is an additional activity to traditional TV consumption.The viewing of news and sport, in particular, will remain an activity conducted "in real time" over traditional linear TV delivery.If a household were, in the future, to use IPTV as its primary television provider, one must assume it would be operating constantly for several hours a day, particularly during peak viewing hours between 6pm and 11pm. This is also the time that home users of broadband are likely to be using the internet for other purposes.Quite apart from the issue of how one family member might use bandwidth-hungry applications, such as downloading documents, running online videos, or gaming, at the same time as another family member is watching television via IPTV, the assumptions in this argument ignore the habits of TV viewers, which increasingly involve engagement withother online activity while watching television.In a 2012Google study, 52% of respondents indicated they were engaged with a mobile device while watching television. Presumably, in the vast majority of cases, this "multi-screen activity" relies on the home's Wi-Fi connection over broadband.In whose interests?It does appear the Coalition's FTTN model, withits more limited capacity, is more favourable to the business interests of Foxtel, particularly when one considers the interaction between the NBN and the operation of Australia's HFC network.Coalition policy in relation to the HFC network is unclear,stating:Subject to an equitable re-negotiation of these provisions satisfactory toNBN Coand the government, our goal would be to remove any contractual impediments to the use of existing HFC networks for broadband and voice. A key consideration in such negotiations will be ensuring open access to networks and scope for enhanced competition in the relevant areas.This position essentially means the ultimate structure of the HFC network will depend very much upon what Telstra agrees to in a new negotiation. That is, the Coalition appears to have committed to giving Telstra another stab at negotiating an outcome that could allow it to maintain wholesale control of the HFC network.Turnbullhas been clearthat, in the interests of avoiding Labor's "government monopoly" model and promoting competition in the provision of wholesale broadband services in those high-density urban areas in which the market can support it, Telstra would be allowed to offer wholesale broadband bundled with Foxtel services over its HFC network.This determination to support market competition in the provision of wholesale broadband in metropolitan markets is the crux of the ideological difference between Labor and the Coalition as expressed in their approaches to broadband.Turnbull's appeal to the ideology of market competition sounds entirely reasonable and is in the best tradition of Liberal party economics. It is, of course, completely antithetical to the market design of Labor's NBN, which has always been about restructuring the telecommunications market in Australia and providing equal services to regional and rural Australia by achievingstructural separationof Telstra.Turnbull has acknowledged that, for his desired outcome of wholesale competition in urban markets to work, the HFC network would have to be operated on a genuinely wholesale basis – that is, structural separation of the HFC network would have to be maintained under the Coalition plan.The rubThe problem – and here we come to the element that has largely been ignored since Sheehan's piece kicked off the current debate on the weekend – is that the Coalition's policy guarantees no such thing.In adiscussionwith Business Spectator's Alan Kohler on August 1, Turnbull acknowledged that:[o]ne possibility is that [the HFC network] is operated by Telstra as a wholesale asset, so then you would have a qualification to the structural separation objective …To put this another way, Turnbull is admitting the possibility that the Coalition's renegotiation with Telstra could end up allowing Telstra to be both the wholesale provider of broadband over HFC in urban areas where the HFC network currently exists and a retail provider of broadband and pay TV services over that same network.Such a move would essentially reinstate Telstra as a vertically integrated wholesale provider of infrastructure (to compete with the NBN) and retail service provider in those markets. By providing an alternative wholesale service in only the most profitable markets, this move would almost certainly reduce the financial returns to NBN Co, raising costs that would have to be passed on to retail customers across the national network, or – more likely – result in higher prices outside the metropolitan markets.At the same time, it will allow Telstra to, in effect, "offer" a lower wholesale access price to its own asset – Foxtel – in those profitable markets than either it, or presumably NBN Co, would make available to other retail customers.While Turnbull admitted he was personally "uncomfortable with that" possibility, the fact remains: the Coalition policy is that, ultimately, the operation of the HFC network will be subject to a new negotiation with Telstra that could leave Telstra to operate the HFC network as a wholesale asset to its own and Foxtel's advantage.This outcome would be much more favourable to Telstra's Foxtel partner, News Corp, than the current deal between Telstra and the Labor Government to decommission both the Telstra and Optus HFC networks and migrate users onto the NBN.NeitherMurdoch's tweet on Monday, questioning Labor's plan to finance the NBN,nor Foxtel's statement this weekinsisting it's in favour of fast broadband for Australia, have acknowledged these issues, choosing instead to focus on the benefit of "fast broadband networks" to Foxtel's recent forays into mobile and on demand services.It's a nice attempt at misdirection, and one that leaves consumers and voters in the dark as to the real implications of the competing broadband policies for Murdoch's business interests in Australia.News Corp has repeatedly defended its right, as a privately-owned media company, to use its newspapers to campaign for particular policies or political parties. It also has a strong record of calling for transparency and accountability in political debate.But in its arguments against the NBN, it would seem News Corp Australia's campaign is less than wholly transparent in representing its own interests.This article was originally published atThe Conversation.Read theoriginal article.
