&bull; We must have gone at least a day or two without mentioningTwitter, but they broke the drought by announcing thatthe service is now receiving some 50m messages a day. That means it's delivering many, many times more, of course. The numbers aren't always so positive, however. Despite all the hullaballoo about last year's Iranian protests being fuelled by Twittering,senior executives at al-Jazeera say they could only find 60 verified accounts in Tehran. That's a far cry from the hype, but also ignores the fact that the real impact of Twitter (and other web services) was notinIran itself, but in spreading news of what was happening there around to other parts of the world. That sense of connectedness - and the responsibility that comes with it - is somethingI've written about before.&bull; The public is warming up to the idea of electronic books and reading devices - *cough* iPad *cough* - but it turns out there are other benefits, too.An examination by Princeton University, which is running a pilot scheme where students are given Amazon Kindles, found that those using an ebook printed half as much material as those without. However, it wasn't all cheery news for Jeff Bezos and friends - 65% of those on the pilot said they wouldn't buy another Kindle if theirs broke.&bull; And it looks like Microsoft'sProject Natal- that's themotion-sensitive control system for the Xbox- is starting to get pimped out for testing with high-profile fans. Gadget Show presenter Jason Bradburygot hs hands on it, whilethere's a little YouTube video of Jonathan Ross trying it at home. Not sure it seems a remarkable advance on Sony's EyeToy, though I haven't used it myself.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
The government has backed away from its proposals in the Digital Economy Bill to cut off people who have illegally shared files online.In a response to apetition on the Number 10 websitethat petitioned Gordon Brown "to abandon Lord Mandelson's plans to ban individuals from the internet based on their use of 'peer to peer' file sharing", the government says: "We will not terminate the accounts of infringers – it is very hard to see how this could be deemed proportionate except in the most extreme – and therefore probably criminal – cases."It adds: "We added account suspension to the list of possible technical measures which might be considered if our measures to tackle unlawful file-sharing through notifications and legal action are not as successful as we hope. This is but one of a number of possible options on which we would seek advice from Ofcom – and others – if we decided to consider a third obligation on technical measures. However what is clear is that we would need a rapid and robust route of appeal available to all consumers if we decided technical measures were needed."Although theoriginal petitionreceived just 550 signatures – far smaller than many others that have been rejected in the past, and only 50 more than are required for the proposal to be considered – it appears to have come as the government was concerned about the effect of the plans on its popularity.The petition may also have struck a chord by pointing to the contradiction in the "three strikes" proposal and the government's aim to get everyone online. The petition noted: "The increasing role of the internet in access to society should not be underestimated. Cutting off households deprives families of education, government services and freedom of speech."Thus the first line of the response reads: "The government wants as many people as possible to enjoy all the benefits that broadband internet can bring."But the announcement marks a clear change from the proposals put forward in theoriginal bill presented to the House of Lords. That offered a number of "technical measures" that should be taken to limit the internet access of people found to have broken copyright law repeatedly. Those included any measure which "prevents a subscriber from using the service to gain access to particular material, or limits such use; suspends the service provided to a subscriber; or limits the service provided to a subscriber in another way".Now the government is retreating from the idea of termination – although it is still retaining the idea of "temporary" suspension "as a last resort".Update: the Open Rights Group, which campaigns on digital rights,says that this is not a changein the government's position.ORG says:"When is 'disconnection' not disconnection? When it is 'account suspension', of course."The government therefore felt justified in a response to a petition on Friday in claiming that were not intending to 'disconnect' families from the net after accusations of copyright infringement. If you think they mean that their internet cabling will still be plugged in at the wall, then that's true."If you think they mean that these families will be able to connect to the internet, well, no they won't. Their connection will be switched off."Please do not be confused by the government's semantics. BIS [the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills] and DCMS [the Department of Culture, Media and Sport] decided in the summer that they would not refer to 'disconnecting' users, because that sounds harsh and over the top. 'Temporary account suspension' sounds much more reasonable."Language matters. What journalist is going to run a story on 'temporary account suspension' (yawn)? This is why the government has chosen these disingenuous terms: it's just more spin."It concludes:"'Temporary account suspensions' sound like the government would to suspend accounts for a few hours, or at most a day, to fit most people's idea of 'temporary' and 'suspension'. We doubt 'suspensions' would be so brief. We can assume what the government means to you and me is 'disconnection'."We will speak to DBIS in the morning to see how long "temporary" is.
Criminal gangs have begun using GPS "jammers" imported from China to help them steal expensive cars and lorries carrying valuable loads – and there are fears that terrorists could use more powerful versions to disrupt air traffic, a conference in London will hear on Tuesday.The "jammers" put out radio signals at the same frequency at the Global Positioning System (GPS) satellites, overwhelming the timing signal that in-car devices use to plot their position. That means a tracker device built into a lorry with a valuable load, or a car with an anti-theft GPS device which should report its position if stolen, cannot distinguish the correct GPS signal."It disappears from the radar," said Professor David Last, of the University of Wales at Bangor, who has been a police expert witness in a number of cases over the past 18 months in which GPS jammers have been seized.Some German drivers are also believed to use such jammers to try to evade GPS-based road charging, which was introduced for trucks in 2005. There have also been robberies in Russia where such jammers have been used against both GPS systems and mobile phones on lorries to prevent the driver from contacting the authorities.In Germany, as in the UK, it is illegal to sell or use such jammers – although it appears to be legal to import or own them.Satnav devices rely on being able to "see" at least four of the 30 satellites orbiting about 20,200km (12,550 miles) above the earth: by correlating the very precise timing and identification signals they transmit, a ground-based device can calculate its own location to within about 1 metre. However, the jamming devices do not have to put out a strong signal to disrupt GPS reception."The problem is that the signal from the satellites is extremely weak – it's the equivalent of picking up the light output of a 25-watt bulb on the satellite," said Bob Cockshott, another conference speaker who heads the location and timing program for the Technology Strategy Board, funded by the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills."That means you only need a jammer with an output of about 2 watts to swamp any signal from the GPS satellites over an area of a few metres." Such a device would be billions of times more powerful than the GPS signal at ground level.Cockshott says that such more powerful jammers could have multiple uses for criminal gangs. "They would work over tens of kilometres, so drugs gangs might use them to disrupt navigation in the Thames estuary if they were taking a delivery and didn't want rivals to be able to trace them."Such systems have been found in the hands of criminals arrested by police over the past 18 months, said Cockshott. The jammers could be built by a competent electronics expert, though the gangs appear to prefer to import them from Chinese makers in Shenzhen."We need to make users of GPS aware of the threat," said Cockshott. "They need to use a complementary technology so that their systems work without GPS." Systems that triangulate on mobile phone masts, and another which uses a ground-based network, called eLoran, can operate even when GPS signals fail, he said.Professor Last said that the use of these systems by criminals and terrorists had been anticipated since 2002, when the US government produced a report pointing out that disruption to GPS could cause "severe safety and economic damage to the US".Charles Curry, the managing director of Chronos Technology, who also heads a consortium which is building a GPS-jamming detection system with a £2.2m UK government grant, said that the biggest fear was that a powerful GPS jammer with an output of 20W or more might be used by terrorists near an airport."If you lost GPS capability on planes or other things that rely on accurate timing, such as the emergency networks or power stations, then if they don't build in the ability to mitigate against such attacks there could be very serious consequences." The detection system is now in its prototype stages and would be used at airports, harbours and other locations which rely on the nanosecond accuracy of GPS outputs.
TV and music impresario Simon Cowell and author Sir Terry Pratchett  have written to MPs and peers urging them to vote in favour of tougher internet piracy measures included in the digital economy bill as "a matter of urgency".Cowell and Pratchett are among five signatories from across the UK's creative industries to a letter designed to put pressure on parliament to make the bill's anti-piracy proposals law.The other signatories are Tim Bevan, co-chairman of Working Title Films, leading TV producer Stephen Garrett and Paul Greengrass, the British director of United 93 and the last two Bourne movies.One of its key DEB clauses will give the courts the power to cut off consumers who download pirated music and films by forcing internet service providers to hand over details of persistent offenders.The controversial proposal is fiercely opposed by ISPs including Carphone Warehouse, which argue it is not their job to police the internet, but the creative industries view it as crucial to the survival of the film, music, TV and publishing businesses.In the letter, sent to parliamentarians today, Cowell and the other signatories say: "Britain is admired for its creativity and its sense of fair play."The country's musicians, singers, actors, writers and directors, they say "contribute more than 7% to the UK economy"."The digital economy bill.... will ensure that British creators, entertainment companies, and the 1.8 million people who work in and around the cultural sector are respected and rewarded in the future as they have been in the past.""Digital entertainment services are really beginning to take off," the letter says, "but for these new business models to develop, it is critical that more is done to prevent the illegal services providing easy access to free content".Greengrass is president of Directors UK, a campaigning body that also collects payments on behalf of TV and film directors. Garrett is executive chairman of Kudo Film and Television, which makes programmes including Spooks and Life on Mars.There are concerns within the creative industries that the bill will not become law in the current session of parliament. A general election is widely expected to take place on 6 May and parliament will be dissolved before that.Leading figures in the industry fear that if the measures designed to prevent consumers from illegally downloading content are not enacted now, the political momentum behind them will be lost for good.There is no guarantee that the next government would reprise the legislation in its first few years, when more urgent manifesto commitments are likely to take precedence.The Conservatives are opposed to some parts of the digital economy bill, including a provision to create independently financed news consortia, which will be given public money to make regional news programmes screened on ITV1.Jeremy Hunt, the shadow culture secretary, has threatened to block the bill if that commitment is not removed. "This is a red line for us. We want this clause out of the bill", he said last month.The opposition has the power to derail the legislation because of the crowded parliamentary timetable in the run-up to the election.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The Meedan wesite has been launched today, and we've covered the story inNews translation website Meedan aims to improve Arabic-English relations. The site also has aYouTube videoto explain how it works.An article published last year --Will web users join forces to break the online language barrier?-- mentioned Meedan in another context, because it planned to use theWorldwide Lexicon(WWL) project's open source system. "So far it hasn't but this remains a product aim",* according to Meedan's content and community manager George Weyman, who is based in London. He told us: "it has some advantages, but right now we're using IBM's Machine Translation engine and theIBM Transbrowser" -- a browser-based tool for creating a translation layer on the web.IBM's sytem isn't open source, but Meedan's data -- its 'translation memory' of over 3m words -- is available to other translators. Weyman says: "the translations that are done with the Transbrowser are part of our agreement with IBM that makes sure all those translations are open source."This isn't true of some other web-based translation services, which are open access but not open source data services.The 'translation memory' is important because having a corpus of texts in two languages allows you to apply statistical techniques to improve a translation engine.One of the leading open source statistical machine translation systems isMoses, whch is funded partly by the European Commission. The project is being led byPhilipp Koehnat the University of Edinburgh, and he's just written abookabout the topic.Machine translation got a lot of impetus from the founding of the EEC and the development ofSystranto handle the huge volume of cross-language translations required. The need to make web sites accessible to people who don't speak that particular language seems likely to make MT even more important in the future.* Updated to addthis quotationvia Twitter.
Ever bought anything from Devil Mountain Software? Probably not. But you may have come across Craig Barth (thoughnot, until this post, on the Guardian) as the "chief technology officer" of that company, which said it offered software that would analyse the performance of your computer when running Windows.Thing is, Craig Barth doesn't exist. He was in fact Randall C Kennedy, who blogged about.. um, Windows performance.. for the news technology site InfoWorld, part of the IDG group.According to Gregg Keizerof another IDG publication, ComputerWorld,"Devil Mountain's data, derived from a network of PCs whose owners have voluntarily downloaded and installed a stripped version of the software the company has sold to financial service firms, Wall Street traders and government agencies, has provided some interesting insights into PC use and behavior: Internet Explorer is more popular than most believed, or most recently, that Windows 7 machines are twice as likely as XP systems to run low of memory. Barth's data was unique: Microsoft rarely divulges details of the telemetric monitoring it does on Windows PCs. Microsoft declined to comment or to make someone from their Windows or telemetry teams available for an interview, for example, to respond to the memory claims."But over at ZDNet, some of the experts didn't really trust what was coming out of Barth, or Devil Mountain Software. So theydid some digging. And some more. And it turned out that it was those little web footprints that really tripped Kennedy/Barth up:"The current XPNet.com design debuted in early 2007 and was captured by Archive.org on April 30, 2007. It does not now and never has contained any reference to either Kennedy or "Craig Barth." By September 2007, Kennedy was using the page to publicize content he had posted on his new blog. Links from Xpnet.com at that time went to an early version of the Blogger-hosted exo.blog. By combing through those posts using the Wayback Machine, we were able to determine that the Research Staff profile originally belonged to Kennedy. Some posts written in 2007 on that blog contained the Randall C. Kennedy by-line. All of those posts were later changed so that the by-line was "Research Staff.""Kennedy was more careful after 2007 not to allow his identity to leak into the exo.blog site, but on at least two occasions—in November 2007 and September 2008—he slipped up by posting graphics to Blogger using the wrong login. Those graphics were uploaded to Google's image servers and are tagged with the ID rkennedy01ca."They also found that the "Sentinel" software offered by Devil Mountain Softwarewasn't as secure as it claimedand that the data fromindividually identified machinescould be inspected. That's quite scary - especially as its Ts&amp;Cs said that "Performance data will be shared in aggregate only and never identified as linked to your individual account."And besides that, is the company's software really used by big Wall Street firms to analyse Windows performance? It seems unlikely - though that's yet to be refuted by ZDNet. (Await an update...)So all the pieces fell into place: Barth and Kennedy were the same person, and Windows Sentinel (as InfoWorld was redistributing it) didn't quite do what it said on the tin. ZDNet told InfoWorld last week.So all those things that Keizer said about the company above - the interesting findings and so on - should be discounted. You can't rely on them.Seems that Barth/Kennedy couldn't quite resist hanging on to his alter ego, though. As Keizer recounts:"on Friday, after I confronted Barth with evidence that linked him to Kennedy -- I didn't yet know they were one and the same -- he assured me that although the two had worked together in the past, and in fact, now worked together at Devil Mountain, any allegations that he and Kennedy were the same person were ridiculous. Two hours later, I received an e-mail from Kennedy, who I'd e-mailed separately.""Time to level with you," Kennedy wrote. "The individual Craig Barth doesn't exist. It's a pseudonym I created a decade ago while writing news copy for Windows NT Magazine. I resurrected it a few years back in an effort to separate my sometimes controversial editorial contributions to InfoWorld from the hard research content I was developing as part of Devil Mountain Software."Aaaand - that's him out of the door of InfoWorld. A terseblogpostsaid that Kennedy is gone. But has his content gone?"Over the past 10 years, Kennedy has contributed valuable information on Windows performance and other technical issues to InfoWorld and its readers -- insight and analysis we still believe to be accurate and reliable."Hmm. It seems that there area few results on InfoWorld for Craig Barth(at the time of this posting, five including the "get out of here" posting). No doubt they'll get wiped out soon. So we'll only have theWayback Machineto rely on. George Orwell would laugh.So fess up: have you come across Devil Mountain Software, or used Windows Sentinel via InfoWorld?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Investigators are closing in on the source of internet attacks that hit a string of US companies, most notably Google.Over the weekend, two Chinese schools linked to the attacks – which hit dozens of companies in an attempt to steal private information and trade secrets – denied their involvement. Reports last week suggested thatthe source of the strikes had been tracedto Shanghai Jiaotong University and the Lanxiang School, a large vocational training centre in Jinan.Today a reportin the Financial Timessuggests that US officials have tracked the individual they believe authored the computer code used, and have linked his work to Chinese officials.The Chinese state news agency Xinhua reported that the two schools had nothing to do with the strikes, dubbed Operation Aurora by security experts. "We were shocked and indignant to hear these baseless allegations which may harm the university's reputation," Xinhua quoted a Jiaotong spokesman as saying.The organisation added that the evidence said to link the school to the attacks centred on the hackers' internet protocol (IP) address, which can easily be forged. "The report of the New York Times was based simply on an IP address. Given the highly developed network technology today, such a report is neither objective nor balanced," the spokesman said.Communist party officials at Lanxiang, which trains up to 20,000 students in trade skills, said the report was false and suggestions that the attacks were performed during a class taught by a Ukrainian professor were "unfounded"."Investigation in the staff found no trace the attacks originated from our school," said Li Zixiang. "There is no Ukrainian teacher in the school and we have never employed any foreign staff."China has expressed concerns about its own online vulnerability, and there are reports today that a senior Chinese army officer has called for a new national body to enforce internet controls, and for a reduction in the reliance on foreign technology.Major General Huang Yongyin said China needed to match the defensive efforts of other major nations, arguing: "For national security, the internet has already become a new battlefield without gunpowder."Writing in the latest issue of Chinese Cadres Tribune, a magazine published by the Communist party's influential Central Party School, he said: "Lawless elements and hostile forces at home and abroad have increasingly turned to the internet to engage in crime, disruption, infiltration, reactionary propaganda and other sabotage activities."The internet attacks, first revealed in January but which have been taking place for some time, led Google to threaten that it wouldstop censoring its Chinese search engine, and have raised concerns about diplomatic relations between the US and China.US officials have been working with representatives from the companies affected – believed to include Adobe Systems, Yahoo and Northrop Grumman – as well as experts from the National Security Agency, the US surveillance and codebreaking agency.Early indications suggested the attacks may have been carried out under direction of authorities in Beijing. That possibility led the US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, to requestclarification from the Chinese government, whichdenied any involvement.Dan Blum, principal analyst for the IT consultancy Burton Group, said the preponderance of evidence pointed to Chinese involvement. "Myself, and a lot of people, are well past 99% sure," he said. "Hillary Clinton, who spoke for the US in officially denouncing the attacks, would not do so lightly, and would probably agree with me."
&bull; What's going on with the investigation into Aurora, the hacking attack that struck Google and other before Christmas? Well, following a report in the New York Times on Friday thattwo Chinese schools were linked to the attacks, the state news agency has reporteddenials from them both. But now the Financial Times is reporting thatUS investigators have found out who wrote the exploit(paywalled link) and that his work was picked up by the Chinese government. This one keeps on developing.&bull; Remember Acta, thatnotoriously secret international governmental agreementthat could change copyright laws around the world? Well,BoingBoing notes that somebody has uploaded a PDF claiming to be an early draft of the proposals. Is it real? Possibly... the trouble is that since the whole process is taking place behind closed doors, it's impossible to know what's happening.&bull; Those who are fans ofJoel Spolsky's blog, may soon be left without his regular musings on the programming business, after he said he was considering retiring it.Marco Arment has some worthwhile commentson why this isn't a good thing - but perhaps inevitable.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Nothing like a bit of console sales skirmishing to brighten up a depressing Monday morning. Wedbush Morgan Securities analyst Michael Pachter is predicting that the Xbox 360's Natal addon willoutsell the PS3's "Arc" motion control camera by 5 to 1.I think that the Sony motion controller will have some problems gaining traction, since it is not an "in the box" solution.  That will probably limit adoption to one or two million at the outset. Natal is different... It's only one piece (the camera), is likely to be cheaper, and I think it will come in the Xbox 360 package with new consoles once launched, meaning far deeper penetration.Unsurprisingly Pachter thinks the games will be key to the success of both peripherals.Sony's internal development is top notch, so I expect the launch titles to be fun, and likely on par with Wii Sports for quality, but ultimately, I think that the motion controller will only sell to 20% or less of the PS3 audience, limiting it's appeal to third party publishers.  A year or so after launch, there will be 10 million [Project Natal units] out there, which will probably attract more third party support. Also, I think Microsoft will subsidize third party development to make it a success.What do you think then? Will Natal outsell the Arc? Or, like me, are you waiting to see what launch titles are included before placing your bets?
Microsoft is about to start offering Windows users a "Web browser choice screen" as required bya settlement agreed with the European Commission's competition departmentlast year. As part of the testing process, some users in the UK, Belgium and France will see it next week. It will be rolled out in 30 European countries next month, but not worldwide.The browser choice screen was preferred over Microsoft's earlier decision to ship boxed copies of Windows 7 without a browser at all.In a blog post, Dave Heiner, Microsoft's Deputy General Counsel, said: "Internal testing of the choice screen is underway now. We'll begin a limited roll-out externally next week, and expect that a full scale roll-out will begin around March 1, a couple of weeks ahead of schedule."Under the scheme, Microsoft's automated Windows Update service will present users with a screen showing a range of browsers, with the top five presented in random order. Users will be able to click a button to install whichever browser they like, or ask for more information from the browser's provider.The selection may change if there are changes in market share.The EU case was kicked off by complaints from Opera, which is based in Norway. Opera has been markedly less successful than Firefox at getting users to adopt its desktop browser. According to usage-based statistics fromStatcounter, Microsoft's IE has a 45.4% market share in Europe, followed by Mozilla Firefox (39.3%), Google Chrome (6.4%), Opera (4.3%), and Apple's Safari (3.7%).It's not clear how much difference the browser choice screen will make. A large proportion of Microsoft's browser users -- especially in large companies and government organisations -- are still on IE6, the out-of-date version that shipped with Windows XP in 2001. They have already declined to upgrade to IE7 and the current version, IE8, which is far more secure and also more in line with Internet standards.Many large organisations have applications that may use IE6 features not provided in other browsers, and they would have to test them to make sure they continue to work even if they upgraded to IE7 or IE8. The cost of testing and perhaps rewriting apps means they are not prime candidates for a non-Microsoft browser.If IE6 users are removed from Statcounter's statistics, then Firefox is already level with Internet Explorer (within 0.1%) in Europe, and the figures show that IE is in long-term decline. In fact, ordinary Windows users have always been able to download alternative browsers, and they have demonstrably been adopting Firefox for the past several years, with no help from the EU.Although Opera may gain market share from being included in Microsoft's "browser ballot", it is still not competing on a completely level playing field. For example, Apple does not offer Opera to Mac users (it bundles Safari with its proprietary Mac OS X), and Google -- which has a monopoly market share in web search -- does not promote Opera alongside its own Chrome browser.
A new website hopes to bridge the divide between the west and the Middle East, by allowing English speakers to read news articles originally printed in Arabic – and vice versa.San Francisco-basedMeedan, which launches tomorrow, will provide translations of news articles in both languages in an attempt to  help foster better  relations between the two."There is a tremendous amount of media attention focused on the Middle East, but for the most part we're looking at those stories through the prism of western news agencies," said Ed Bice, Meedan's co-founder and chief executive. "We don't have a good way of seeing the media that's being written in Arabic and represents the way the region is understanding these events itself."The non-profit site – the name of which means "town square" in Arabic – will also translate from English to Arabic, as well as providing a community forum that will let speakers of the two languages communicate with each other in near-real time."Outside of the news agencies like the BBC and al-Jazeera that are doing ­programming in two languages, Arabic speakers are unable to access information written in English," he added. "The goal is to provide more media exchange across both these languages."The system, which has been in development for more than three years, is based on advanced automatic translation technology developed by IBM and uses an international team of 30 translators and editors to find news and polish the language.Many media organisations have partnered with translation services in recent years to help spread their information to new areas, particularly in repressive countries such as China where even the English versions of news websites are often blocked. However, that process can also capture the attention of the authorities. In December,Yeeyan, a Chinese community translation website used by the Guardian was closed down by officials in Beijing.Bice said that the site would steer clear of controversial subjects, since the aim was to get accurate versions of news and opinion to as many people as possible."We are trying to respect the boundaries of speech and not agitate against them," he said. "We are respectful of the many and changing boundaries that define what can be spoken about when and where in the region."But with language  seen as a major  barrier to more successful diplomatic and cultural relations, accurate automated translation has long been an ambition for generations of technologists and linguists.While progress has been slow, many groups are now beginning to make significant steps. Late last year Google showcased a new mobile phone application that will help translate spoken words across a variety of languages – reminiscent of the universal communicator devices used in science fiction programmes such as Star Trek.But the need for accurate translation could be more pressing than ever, thanks to a decision last year by internet administrators which will soon give websites the ability to have names in new alphabets such as Mandarin, Arabic and Cyrillic.With the potential for highly localised websites that cannot even be reached by outsiders – let alone understood – many have worried about the potential for a series of so-called "splinternets" to evolve.According to Meedan's community manager, George Weyman, this means that schemes to help people overcome language barriers will become even more common."Everything posted on Meedan is translated first and foremost by machines, and then humans supply improvements to that. We show the translation history, much like Wikipedia, so you can see how it's evolved," he said."We're improving the quality of machine translation into Arabic. Over time, we should be able to translate more things, better. It's very exciting to see that happen – we're ploughing a furrow that we hope will benefit many other cross-language projects on the web."
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?I'm gonna have to start by saying I find it hard to pick favourites in anything – favourite movies, favourite comics, favourite foods. I like too many things, so even in technology, that applies. If I have to settle for one thing I would say the mobile phone, and if I had to narrow that down I would say the iPhone, because it is just an incredible piece of technology – as I'm sure anyone who has got one knows. It's an incredible convergence device – it's changed our lives in ways that haven't even been realised yet.When did you last use it?About 10 minutes ago, to check my mail. I've got a BlackBerry as well, which I've been clinging on to because I convinced myself that it was a slightly more efficient tool for business. But I don't think that's true any more, now that the iPhone's gone 3GS. My only problem I've got with the iPhone is storage space.What additional features would you add if you could?More memory and battery life – they're the key issue in all these devices, I think.Will it be obsolete in 10 years?In 10 years almost all the things we use right now will be unrecognisable. It's going to be commerce that drives it, as always, and at the moment – because we're in the grip of what appears to be a global recession – I don't know whether the pace will keep up. I guess the iPhone will change drastically, as will most things. I can't see the iPhone getting that much smaller, but I imagine it will get slimmer and more portable. I don't think it will change that much, because I think it's pretty nearly a perfect thing.What frustrates you about technology?PCs and Apples and devices that don't work together. I'm someone who  have a lot of these things bouncing around, and I'm very much someone who grabs hold of the new item and gives it a go. So often I'll find that an old computer won't talk to a new computer, and I'd like to be able to synch my mailbox in about 10 or 20 different computers.Is there any particular piece of technology you have owned and hated?Oh, loads of stuff. I bought the very first Apple Mac portable, which was only portable if you were Arnie fucking Schwarzenegger. It weighed about 60lb and it came in a case that was about two foot by about a foot and a half. I've still got it, it still works. That wasn't one I hated, I'm just saying I've always bought the early stuff. I still stupidly will blunder in and buy the next thing when it comes out.If you had one tip for getting the best out of technology, what would it be?I'm not a great one for giving advice, which is probably just as well. Learn to use the item you've got to its full potential. Often we buy a new thing and use it in the same way we used its predecessor – we don't realise it's got so much more to give.Are you a luddite or a nerd?Clearly, I'm in the nerd school. But in some ways I'm fairly luddish, in that I sometimes resent the march of technology and change for the sake of it.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?It would probably be a car. I bought myself a Morgan, because I always loved the look of those old cars, and even that only cost about 28 grand, so it's not wildly expensive for a car. I would probably invest in a robot. If Honda started selling Asimos, I'd probably save up and buy one, because I love the idea.Mac or PC, and why?Mac all the way. They're better looking, they're more interesting, they're certainly easier to use, and they've always suited my lifestyle more. It's what I grew up with. For me, it was always Mac and it always will be.Do you still buy physical media such asCDs and DVDs, or do you download?I buy DVDs; I don't buy CDs so much, I get given a lot. I think I'd probably download music more than a movie… I don't like streaming movies much because the bandwidth isn't quite there yet. There's something about having the hard DVD in your hand at home.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?It's a fucking great idea. That's it. That's all you need to know. What's wrong with a robot butler? Once again, though, I bet the battery life won't quite be good enough, I bet they'll sometimes malfunction, and I bet the Windows ones won't talk to the Mac ones. But yeah, bring it on.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Apart from a robot butler, I've always loved the idea of a reliable, not-too-dangerous jetpack. But you know, I'm really happy there are other people out there, smarter people, making new stuff for us all the time.Jonathan Ross is hosting the British Academy Film Awards tonight. His first comic book, Turf, is published in April
It is an intriguing combination of two technologies in action. As the $100bn International Space Station, scheduled for completion over the next 12 months, circles the planet, its astronauts relay the wonders of living on board history's most expensive construction site by using Twitter to communicate with the world.Flight engineer Soichi Noguchi, a Japanese astronaut on board the station, and US engineer José Hernández, have been particularly adept at using the microblogging service to send hundreds of pictures back to Earth via their accounts. The results provide a dramatic and highly accessible portfolio of images of life in space and of Earth when viewed from a height of 185 miles.  Noguchi's efforts include photographs of the shuttle's interior as well as pictures of deserts, islands and ice floes on Earth. Both astronauts' efforts have gone down a treat with space watchers round the globe. "Bellissima foto!" responds one follower; "Buena foto," states another.As Twitter messages make clear, it's the immediacy of the pictures that causes the real excitement. "I've seen plenty of official space photos that were equally breathtaking, but there's something about getting them from Twitter that makes this feel more intimate," says one of them.
Psst: want to know the future of cyberspace? You could try asking a rock star. Why? Well, some of them have turned out to be perceptive futurologists. Eight years ago, for example, David Bowie said this to aNew York Timesreporter: "I don't even know why I would want to be on a label in a few years because I don't think it's going to work by labels and by distribution systems in the same way. The absolute transformation of everything that we ever thought about music will take place within 10 years, and nothing is going to be able to stop it. I'm fully confident that copyright, for instance, will no longer exist in 10 years, and authorship and intellectual property is in for such a bashing."Bowie then went on to make one of the most perceptive observations anyone's ever made about our networked world. Music, he said, "is going to become like running water or electricity". To appreciate the significance of this, remember that he was speaking in 2002, a year after Apple unleashed the iPod on an unsuspecting world. At the time, millions of people were transfixed by the idea that they could carry their entire music collections around with them in a tiny device. But Bowie perceived that this blissful state might just be transitory– that iPod users were, in fact, the audio equivalent of travellers to primitive countries who carry bottled water because public supplies are unreliable or unsafe. In a comprehensively networked world, Bowie surmised, people would eventually become more relaxed about carrying their supplies of bottled music: when they needed it, they would just get it streamed from the network.Six years later came the launch ofSpotify, an astonishing service which streams music with very little buffering delay, and which has become so successful that it eventually had to close subscriptions to its free (i.e. ad-supported) service. Admission is now strictly by invitation only, but paid subscriptions are, as you might expect, readily available. Anyone who has used Spotify will instantly recognise the perceptiveness of Bowie's insight all those years ago.Music has been one of the most powerful drivers of internet development because, after alcohol and sex, it's probably the thing young people value most. And when people want something that badly, then they will get it one way or another. The record labels spent nearly two decades pretending that the net didn't exist. They persisted with a business model based on plastic discs which made it unprofitable to supply individual tracks. But the demand for tracks endured – and eventually a peer-to-peer file-sharing service called Napster made tracks available to anyone with a PC and an internet connection. The result shattered the industry, leaving it utterly dependent on a computer company – Apple – which found a way of legally supplying tracks.Now spool forward again to today, when the angst du jour is how to get people to pay for online "content". Once again, the most perceptive insight may come from the music business – specifically from an iconic 60s band, the Grateful Dead, whose archives have recently been donated to the University of California at Santa Cruz. Marking the event in a recent article inThe Atlantic, author Joshua Green reminded us of how the Dead pioneered ideas and practices that are only now being reluctantly embraced by corporate America. "One was to focus intensely on its most loyal fans," Green observes. The band "established a telephone hotline to alert them to its touring schedule ahead of any public announcement, reserved for them some of the best seats in the house, and capped the price of tickets". He adds: "Only in the 1980s, faced with competition from Japan, did American CEOs and management theorists widely adopt a customer-first orientation."Quite so. More significantly, though, the Grateful Dead decided that they wouldn't try to stop people making bootleg recordings of their concerts, figuring that what they lost in royalties would be more than compensated for by being more widely known, and by the resulting sales of merchandise. It turned out that they were right. The band anticipated by decades the "Freemium" business model now being touted by expensive managerial gurus. Stand by for a best-selling business book entitledManagement Secrets of the Grateful Dead. And if you want to know the future, ask a musician.
Video games have long been in thrall to Hollywood – an obsession with turning virtual playthings into "interactive movies" that has cursed countless releases. The dichotomy of the two mediums – that films are for watching, and games for playing – is too powerful to overcome: cinematic creations sacrifice their power in allowing interaction and games lose their focus when the narrative leaves the players' control. A dead end, leading, at best, to brave failure and, at worst, ignominious farce. Until now. UntilHeavy Rain.A slick neo-noir, this is the most intense crime drama seen on any games machine of any era, intelligent and mature when its contemporaries are simply "adult". Developers Quantic Dream have presented an elaborate and disturbing murder mystery that lets players assume the role of four leading characters. Hence scenes jump between a tormented father, a likable private detective, an open-minded FBI agent and a savvy female journalist. To detail the events that unfold would be to spoil the thrill of playing, but to explain how it works is to reveal one of the most ambitious contributions to the medium in years.Essentially,Heavy Rainplaces destiny in players' hands – letting you affect the decisions and actions that ultimately determine how the game unfolds. Even the smallest act can lead to a huge narrative twist that would otherwise be missed, and a normally banal chore can carry as much tension as the many stand-out fight sequences. More remarkable still is that you feel your personality and mannerisms reflected in the interactions of the cast.Heavy Rain's abstract control system might be occasionally ungainly, but it allows you to prod at the narrative in a way that is extraordinary, to assume the role of both actor and director.Along with the plot's breathless pacing a sumptuous score is delivered with skill, and the game is beautifully shot. The poetry of cinematography fully realised, combined with a genuine ability to evoke sadness, fear and guilt, make for one of the most emotionally provocative titles ever.Quantic Dream's latest may not only be the best game you've ever played – it could even become one of your favourite films.
Attention to detail is a forte of director Ridley Scott. HisAlienfeatured beer cans printed with the Weylan-Yutani brand that engineered the first encounter with the xenomorph. The "Company"s role expanded in the sequels (becoming Weyland-Yutani under James Cameron inAliens) and was central to theAlien vs Predatorfranchise that brought the beasts head-to-head on film. Whence it comes to gamers, in the form of its Lance Henriksen-voiced boss opening a Predator temple – setting the scene for this first-person hunter-shooter-killer hybrid and the chaos that ensues.Gameplay varies between the three protagonists. Marines operate a standard gun-led dynamic that begins superbly in the dimly lit confines of a base but becomes less invigorating as it moves to the more repetitive jungle scenarios. Predators offer stealth, a variety of melee and ranged weapons and are the easiest entry point to the title. While the Aliens possess speed, agility (crawling on walls and ceilings) and, oh yes, that second set of teeth…Which is a feature. This is gory, in more detail than the 1999 PC version although both share a superb sense of atmosphere. Particularly evident in the sound affects here. Fans of any of the films will swoon over their accurate rendition, from the creatures themselves to the urgent phut of the pulse rifle and the nerve-jangling beep of the motion sensor. There's nothing groundbreaking here but there is much to be enjoyed Indeed, asHeavy Rainblurs the boundaries between media, it's notable that compared to the woefulAlien vs Predator: Requiemfilm, as a piece of entertainment, this game is superior, the devil in Scott's detail let loose on a whole new medium.
Two partsMario Kartto one partOutRun,Sonic and Sega All-Stars Racingappropriates the gleeful, exaggerated powerslides of the latter and pilfers almost everything else from the former. It's a game with no other ambition than to ride the slipstream of Nintendo's benchmark racer – and with over 20 million sales of the Wii version alone, it's not hard to see why. That it does so reasonably successfully is a result Sega will likely be delighted with.It shares so many similarities with Nintendo's famous series that one wonders why Sega didn't go the whole (hedge)hog and name itSonic Kart. Weapons are simple reskins ofMario Kartstaples, – KO gloves replace green shells, rockets are red shells by another name – and the homage doesn't end there. Sliding around corners triggers a turbo boost, while bikes are capable of tricks on straights to compensate for their relative fragility. Racers can even pull mid-air tricks to gain a burst of speed upon landing. Stop me if you think you've played this one before.But Sega's game does have a few ideas of its own. The often amusing All-Star moves give backmarkers the chance to catch up – thankfully blue shell equivalents are absent here – while an enthusiastic commentator's interjections are informative rather than irritating. And while the action can get a little too busy at times (one track resorts to huge arrows to guide confused players), the winning blend of riotous track action and impressive fan service should appeal to long-time Sega acolytes and casual gamers alike.
Even if he didn't sport dreadlocks, you could easily recogniseJaron Lanieras a digital utopian. The 49-year-old native New Yorker has been involved in the web for 30 years, a key figure, along with visionaries such as Grateful Dead lyricist John Perry Barlow and authors Stewart Brand and Kevin Kelly, in nurturing its early culture from hobbyist pastime to global communications revolution. He popularised the notion of virtual reality, and his ideas about open culture and open access paved the way for the triumph of first-generation web success stories such as Google and Amazon and second-generation online applications including Twitter and Facebook.Now, however, Lanier – who is also anaccomplished musician– feels increasingly sceptical about the way the web is developing. In a new book,You Are Not A Gadget: A Manifesto(Allen Lane, £20), he describes the development of what he calls digital Maoism: here, users of the web are a proletariat toiling for the benefit of an all-powerful (virtual) bourgeoisie. Thisvolte-faceperhaps says more about the journey that this philosopher has travelled than the evolution of our online world.What is digital Maoism?Twenty-five years ago some friends and I had this thought that perhaps the internet would be a fount of wealth and opportunity, that it could be entirely open such that people could give away the fruits of their brains and hearts, and the rewards they would get in return would be huge. Unfortunately, I've come to believe that was a mistake.We're faced with a stark decision: we give people a way to live off their brains – to earn with dignity, to not have to constantly sing for their supper – or we have to accept that our problem is socialism, that we're trying to shut down personal reinvention and self-determinism and want to create a system where people will be universally supported by some institution. I personally support the former.I call the alternative digital Maoism because, unlike other Marxists, the Maoists had this real distaste for people earning from their brains. They worshipped the peasant, the person who's really toiling. Every time we give a musician the advice to give away the music and sell the T-shirt, we're saying, "Don't make your living in this more elevated way. Instead, reverse this social progress, and choose a more physical way to make a living." We're sending them to peasanthood, very much like the Maoists have.So what is the solution?Criticism is always easier than constructive solutions. InYou Are Not A GadgetI propose five different approaches to a solution. The one I am the most hopeful about is to return to the very first vision of the web: a universal micro-payment system. For practical purposes, that would mean that there's only one copy of a creative thing, and you pay a half penny every time you access it.With things like the iPad and the Kindle and Xbox Live, we're creating this big studio system. I'd much rather see a world where, when you make some quirky comment on a blog or news story or you upload a video clip, instead of just a moment of fame for your pseudonym, you'll get 50 bucks. The first time that happens, you'll realise that you're a full-class citizen. You have the potential to make money from the system. Once you hit that point, you'll realise there's a social contract, and then maybe you'll stop illegally downloading content for the same reason you don't break into houses or cars even though you could: because it's part of a system that's better for everybody.People would try to play that system. Wouldn't that create an environment where people seek to earn back based on what they think would be a hit?I don't doubt that would happen. But having everything freely accessible to everyone else actually just creates a mediocre mush. The wisdom of crowds works when the crowd is choosing the price of an ox, when there's a single numeric average. But if it's a design or something that matters, the decision is made by committee, and that's crap. You want people and groups who are able to think thoughts before they share.You say that this open system ultimately ends in mediocrity, but online, people gather into single-interest groups to preach to the converted, parsing and creating what it is they want to see.That's the same process. Human beings either function as individuals or as members of a pack. There's a switch inside us, deep in our spirit, that you can turn one way or the other. It's almost always the case that our worst behaviour comes out when we're switched to the mob setting. The problem with a lot of software designs is that they switch us to that setting.When you have a global mush,  people lose their identity, they become pseudonyms, they have no investment and no consequence in what they do. Whenever that situation exists, there's a sequence I find to be common whether it's a jihadi chat site or a chat site about beach balls. Initially people aren't sure what the pack is. Somebody tries to ridicule something else, and other people who want to play it safe join in so that they're not the target. Gradually, the pack forms. You can tell it's formed by two things: an internal enemy and an external enemy. The internal enemy is the low person on the totem pole who gets ridiculed. And then there's the external enemy, the "other". What we have online is a total lack of communication across those boundaries  but this is the inevitable consequence of matching the human spirit as it really exists, our true biology, with this open mush environment. We see this in playgrounds, we see this pack mentality in other, non-web environments.That's because it comes from the people, not from the machine.You present a compelling idea that software designers are psychologically manipulating us, through the very way they're designing their systems: to engage us, to facilitate their applications. Do you think they're aware of this?No, absolutely not. I'm not suggesting a conspiracy. What it is instead is religion. There's this theological drive to equate people and computers, more and more designs have that quality. So one of the ways in which the web 2.0 stuff suppresses individuals and brings out this mob identity is because it allows us to pretend that the machine is becoming intelligent and doing work. Larry Page can say that Google's servers are coming alive, but that's because we don't seethe people behind the curtain.Humans are able to create and appreciate culture. You argue that culture is disintegrating. Aren't mash-ups  evidence of a sophisticated repackaging of culture?The difference between real culture and fake culture is whether you internalise the thing before you mash it. Does it become part of you? Is there some way your meaning, your spirit, your understanding has  touched this thing? Or is it just a touch of novelty for a moment to get some attention? Culture involves some work, some risk, some exploration, some surprise.As a digital optimist, can you see anything good from the web in general?Oh, I think the web has been a massive success. The web gave us the first empirical evidence that vast numbers of people really are creative, really do have things to offer, and really will do it – really will get their acts together. I am a huge enthusiast overall of what's happening online. The stuff I don't like is web 2.0. It regiments and anonymises people. I think that's a huge wrong turn.
Spot The TigerA fabulous mashup of art and public opinion. Each week, Spot The Tiger picks one thorny issue (Should same sex marriage be legal? Should all UK police be armed?) and asks us to cast our vote. Each question is accompanied by a succinct explanation of both sides of the argument and a specially commissioned illustration. A project by Goldsmiths Debating Society, the site serves as a both a forum for opinion and a showcase for new creative talent; and the results of some of the surveys are a bit of an eyebrow-raiser.Ten Word WikiBridget Jones' Diary Photograph: UIPFirst there was text messaging, then the 140-character constriction of communication on Twitter, now knowledge is facing a similar reduction. Billing itself as the "express till of the internet" and "an encyclopedia for the ADD Generation", Ten Word Wiki operates exactly the same way as Wikipedia except that all entries are kept to an easily digestible miniature word count. Built by its users, some of whom are a bit naughty, the easily offended may need to tread carefully, but most entries are charmingly to the point. The description for Renée Zellweger reads "Actress, played Bridget Jones sometimes chubby, sometimes thin, always annoying". While HP Sauce is defined as "Sauce first served in House of Commons. Probable expenses claim". Brilliant.Blog roll: Mad MenMad Men Photograph: AMCAMCAs with all, please tread carefully to avoid spoilers. Character bios, episode recaps, polls and games.Basket Of KissesExcellent for obsessives, including continuity goofs and series quotes.The Footnotes Of Mad MenLook at those apricot-coloured pillows! Superb analysis of period details.Attention Deficit TheatreWith transcripts of every episode.Rich SommerBlog of the actor better known as The Head of Television.Twitter Betty DraperBetty Draper is … Taking bourbon meatloaf out of the oven.GuardianJoin the weekly debate straight after broadcast.What we learned this weekMaking teawill be very difficult in the futureThe narrowerthe street, the darker its pastWomen takelonger to get a joke than menWhere toairbrush for changeRude peopleget better customer serviceCat ownersare smarter than dog ownersWisdom isn'tan old guy on top of a mountainWhat Goofywould look like if David Lynch directed it …… and Spider-Mandirected by Wes AndersonHow toovercome creative block
BioShock 2, PC/PS3/Xbox 360BioShock 2 returns you to the dripping art deco splendour of decaying underwater city, Rapture. In this outing, you play a Big Daddy, the lumbering, drill-wielding entities whose singular focus is to guard children called Little Sisters while they harvest fluids from corpses using outsize syringes. Although fearsomely proportioned, your life as a Big Daddy is not an easy one, with the city's crazed Splicers continually harrying you between larger, more protracted encounters with other Big Daddies and terrifying Big Sisters, whose banshee wails you hear in the moments before they launch themselves at you. Combat is faster and more frenzied than in the original, offset by the ability to fry opponents with gene-enhanced Plasmids at the same time as using your gun or drill. You can also set traps before a big fight, giving you a tactical advantage that you'll need given the constant and stress-inducing scarcity of ammunition.2K Games, £35-£45Alien vs Predator, PC/PS3/Xbox360Aliens vs PredatorWhen the ruthless Weyland-Yutani corporation discovers an ancient relic on a remote planet, they unwittingly release hungry aliens into their own colony and alert the Predators, a species that lives to hunt. The resulting carnage is played out from each of the three perspectives, with the first campaign viewed from the frankly terrifying perspective of a space marine, who you're left in no doubt forms the bottom layer of an exceptionally violent food chain. The claustrophobic tunnels, flickering orange flares, chirruping of motion detectors and rattle of pulse rifles perfectly evoke the films' survival horror-style tension, with an at times brutal difficulty level. The Predator and Alien campaigns are briefer and more fun, playing more like Batman: Arkham Asylum, as you use stealth and distraction before quietly eviscerating your prey. Multiplayer feels a bit unbalanced as a result, but the three-way single-player campaign is a masterpiece of atmosphere and suspense.SEGA, £45Silent Hill: Shattered Memories, Nintendo Wii/Sony PSPSilent Hill: Shattered MemoriesTold through flashback as you relive the experience in sessions with a psychiatrist, Harry Mason, hero of the first Silent Hill, is back in search of his lost daughter, Cheryl. Using the Wii-remote as a torch, you wander around looking for clues and solving puzzles that involve pointing at or grabbing things, while receiving the odd crackly and unsettling phone call, the Wii-remote this time doubling as mobile handset. The biggest change here is that this isn't a game about fighting monsters, but about running away from them as fast as you can, then engaging in farcical joypad waggling when the formless not-quite-horrors catch hold of you. The Wii's old-school graphics give it a reassuringly low-rent feel that is in keeping with Silent Hill's traditionally distorted, confusing atmosphere. While you'd be pushed to spend more than six or seven hours completing this, it's an effective re-imagining of survival horror for beginners.Konami, £35
One of this year's hot topics has been Steve Jobs'srefusal to allow Adobe Flashonto his proprietary devices, the iPhone, iPod Touch and most recently the iPad e-reader. It seems the Apple co-founder has also taken this message to The Wall Street Journal, visiting the Murdoch-owned paper in New York to demonstrate the iPad. According to a Valleywag (Gawker) blog posting,What Steve Jobs Said During His Wall Street Journal iPad Demo, "Jobs reportedly said the Journal would find 'It's trivial to create video in H.264' instead of Flash."But video is only one part of the problem. The post says:"even assuming the Journal could duplicate its Flash slideshows, infographics and other news apps using iPad-friendly technologies like Javascript, it would take a decidedly nontrivial amount of time and effort to create or acquire such a system, hire staff who understand it as well as Flash, train staff on how to use it, and integrate it into the Journal's editorial workflow. It might be a great way to advance web standards like HTML5, and a great way to get the Journal on more devices, but it would hardly be 'trivial'."It's not really about H.264, because Flash is perfectly capable of playing H.264 videos. H.264 is justa highly-patented and potentially expensive video codec: it isn't a cross-platform software development system.But even if Flash lost its grip on the web-based video market, many websites would, for better or worse, continue to use it for other things. Flash hasn't been a huge success on the web because users love it (I suspect most of us don't), but because developers use it.Also, Jobs must know that one reason why Flash videos play better on Windows PCs than on Macs is because ofproblems with Mac OS  X, rather than with Flash.This isn't to suggest that Adobe's programmers are beyond criticism, of course, but whose are? If Jobs wants to do something useful, he could get his own programmers to fix the bloated and slow iTunes application, especially on Windows.The problem with Jobs's approach is that it's costing him credibility. Valleywag's post repeatedly harps on the famous Reality Distortion Field, a term Bud Tribble coined (or borrowed from Star Trek) in 1981. At the wonderfulFolklore.orgsite, it says: "In his presence, reality is malleable. He can convince anyone of practically anything. It wears off when he's not around."The Wall Street Journal's take appeared in an op-ed comment by Holman Jenkins,The Microsofting of Apple?, which says: "Here's the bigger worry. Apple may be succumbing to the seductive temptations of 'network effects,' in which the all-consuming goal becomes getting its mobile devices into more and more hands simply for the purpose of locking more and more users into iTunes." It concludes:"Network effects can be a path to power and riches, but (as Microsoft has shown) much of the proceeds can also end up being squandered on defensive and paranoid attempts to secure the privileged position. Pundits have wondered what might become of Apple once its chief aesthete and perfectionist is no longer calling the shots. An Apple that rolls out increasingly junky devices merely to lock more and more customers into the iTunes-App Store mall is one gloomy possibility."The suggestion that Apple might end up rolling out "increasingly junky devices" to lock users into its content shop was probably not the result that Jobs had in mind when he showed off the iPad.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
There's been a lot of noise online about the so-called "Kneber" botnet, which has compromised more than 70,000 computers and stolen thousands of pieces of data.According to reports, around 2,500 companies were hit over the last 18 months as part of a botnet first spotted byNetWitnessin January.The subject - cybercrime attacks undertaken by organised gangs of hackers - has become a hot topic in recent months, not least afterGoogle accused Chinese hackersof trying to steal information from it anda string of other companies.In fact, however, is not a brand new attack. According to Symantec, the so-called "Kneber" strike is merely the resurrection of an existing Trojan that has been known about for some time."Kneber, in reality, is not a new threat at all, but is simply a pseudonym for the infamous and well-known Zeus Trojan," said the company. "The name Kneber simply refers to a particular group, or herd, of zombie computers, a.k.a. bots, being controlled by one owner. The actual Trojan itself is the same Trojan.Zbot, which also goes by the name Zeus, which has been being observed, analyzed and protected against for some time now.""Since Zeus/Zbot toolkits are widely available on the underground economy, it is not uncommon for attackers to create new strings, such as Kneber, of the overall Zeus botnet."We have written about Zeus before - last November two people were arrested in Manchesteron suspicion of using Zeus to steal people's bank details, part of a series of systematic strikes that had led experts to claim it was"one of the most notorious pieces of malware to have been seen recently".To be fair, NetWitness was not claiming that the Kneber attack was a new method. Indeed, in the company'swhite paper on the strikes(registration required) says prominently that "the format and structure of the logged data indicate a Zeus Trojan botnet".What does this mean? Above all, it would indicate that anyone already protected against Zeus would have been insulated from the Kneber attacks.Secondly, it shows that Zeus isn't just successful at stealing people's banking details (which is what it had largely been used for in the past). According to Netwitness, the attacks were successful in stealing credentials from social networking websites - Facebook, Yahoo and hi5 were all hit, as well as other networks like MetroFlog and Sonico.NetWitness also suggests that a number of government agencies in the US and Europe were hit - though it's not clear whether their systems were successfully breached.More as we find it.
A spate of internet attacks that hit Google and other companies have been traced to two schools in China, according to reports – but Chinese sources have responded by denying knowledge of the strikes.According tothe New York Times, security experts investigating a string of hacking attacks on American companies have linked them to origins in mainland China.The story, which quoted anonymous sources close to the investigation, said that the so-called Project Aurora attacks appeared to originate from Shanghai Jiaotong University and the Lanxiang Vocational School in Shandong province.Jiaotong is well regarded as a centre for computer studies, and has an extensive information security programme that boasts its "high-level talent" and has links to military research projects.Lanxiang, around 250 miles south of Beijing, is a prominent school that has developed some reputation for developing computer skills.The report suggested that intelligence agents working on the case had linked the strikes to a specific class taught at Lanxiang.While the Chinese authorities have not commented on the report, a female member of staff from Lanxiang told the Guardian that the school was not aware of the attacks on Google."We did not know Google was hacked before the New York Times contacted us – when they called, we told them we know nothing but they still made the story up," she said. "Our students are middle school graduates, and we train them to use software like Photoshop. If our students are so skilled they can hack Google, then what are they here for?"She also urged caution against drawing the conclusion that Chinese schools were training hackers to attack American targets."I hope the media can be cautious about this report," she said. "We don't want to worsen US-China relations or draw national attention."Google, which has continued investigating the source of the attacks since going public, did not respond to a request for comment.It has been more than a month since the internet company revealed that it had been targeted in a series of strikes aimed at uncovering personal details of Chinese dissidents and stealing elements of its software.At the time the company threatened to stopcensoring its Chinese search enginein protest at the attacks, which it called "highly sophisticated"."This information goes to the heart of a much bigger global debate about freedom of speech,"said the company at the time. "These attacks and the surveillance they have uncovered have led us to conclude that we should review the feasibility of our business operations in China."The company has not yet acted on its threat to stop censoring its search results – a move which would be likely to result in its expulsion from the country – but has drawn support from the US government.Google and a number other companies hit by the Aurora attacks have been investigating its origins, and have linked up withAmerica's National Security Agencyas they attempt to pinpoint the culprits.It is not the first time that such attacks have been attributed to Chinese hackers.In 2007 investigators said they were tracking the activities of a notorious gang of Chinese hackers known asTitan Rain, linked to the military and responsible for raids against western governments – including the US defence department, British Foreign Office and the Houses of Parliament.And yesterday it was revealed that another attack had struck around 75,000 computers worldwide inan attempt to steal sensitive personal and financial data. The so-called Kneber botnet – consisting of millions of PCs that had been infected with a piece of malicious software – struck nearly 2,500 companies and government agencies around the world.Although the extent of the damage was not clear, experts suggested that the strike – which is believed to have been in operation for over a year – was far broader than the targeted attack on Google and others."While Operation Aurora shed light on advanced threats from sponsored adversaries, the number of compromised companies and organisations pales in comparison to this single botnet," said Amit Yoran of NetWitness.
Easily the best PS3 game of 2009, Uncharted 2 has already begun to gather some deserved awards. The action/adventure classic has just picked up10 Annual Interactive Achievement Awardsat the Dice conference in the US. These awards – all voted for by developers - include Game of the Year as well numerous visual, sound and direction triumphs. Batman Arkham Asylum and Scribblenauts also picked up gongs.  All three games are up for numerousBAFTA nominationstoo withNaughty Dogand co likely to need yet more space in those proverbial trophy cabinets.  Anyway, the AIAS winners are:Game of the Year:Uncharted 2: Among Thieves•       Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment•       Developer: Naughty Dog•       Producer: Sam Thompson•       Creative Director: Amy Hennig•       Game Director: Bruce StraleyOutstanding Achievement in Game DirectionUncharted 2: Among Thieves•       Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment•       Developer: Naughty Dog•       Producer: Sam Thompson•       Creative Director: Amy Hennig•       Game Director: Bruce StraleyCasual Game of the YearFlower•       Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment America•       Developer: thatgamecompany•       Producer: Kellee Santiago•       Creative Director: Jenova ChenFighting Game of the YearStreet Fighter IV•       Publisher: Capcom•       Developer: Capcom•       Producer: Yoshinori OnoRole-Playing/Massively Multiplayer Game of the YearDragon Age: Origins•       Publisher: Electronic Arts•       Developer: Bioware•       Producer: Mark Darrah•       Creative  Director: Mike Laidlaw•       Game Director: Mark DarrahSports Game of the YearFIFA Soccer 10•       Publisher: Electronic Arts•       Developer: EA Canada•       Producer: David Rutter•       Creative Director: Gary Paterson•       Game Director: Kaz MakitaRacing Game of the YearForza Motorsport 3•       Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios•       Developer: Turn 10 Studios•       Producer: Korey Krauskopf•       Creative Director: John Wendl•       Game Director: Dan GreenawaltOutstanding Achievement in Game DesignBatman: Arkham Asylum•       Publisher: Eidos/Warner Bros Interactive Entertainment•       Developer: Rocksteady Studios•       Lead Level Designer: Ian BallAdventure Game of the YearUncharted 2: Among Thieves•       Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment•       Developer: Naughty Dog•       Producer: Sam Thompson•       Creative Director: Amy Hennig•       Game Director: Bruce StraleySocial Networking Game of the YearFarmville•       Publisher: Zynga•       Developer: Zynga•       Producer: David Gray•       Creative Director: Mark Skaggs•       Game Director: Bill MooneyStrategy/Simulation Game of the YearBrütal Legend•       Publisher: Electronic Arts•       Developer: Double Fine Productions•       Producer: Caroline Esmurdoc•       Creative Director: Tim Schafer•       Game Director: Tim SchaferAction Game of the YearCall of Duty: Modern Warfare 2•       Publisher: Activision•       Developer: Infinity Ward•       Producer: Mark Rubin•       Game Director: Jason WestFamily Game of the YearThe Beatles: Rock Band•       Publisher: MTV Games•       Developer: Harmonix Music Systems•       Producers: Paul DeGooyer, Jeff Jones, Alex Rigopulos•       Creative Director: Chris Foster•       Game Director: Josh RandallOutstanding Innovation in GamingScribblenauts•       Publisher: Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment•       Developer: 5th Cell Media•       Producer: Joseph M. Tringali•       Creative Director: Jeremiah Slaczka•       Game Director: Jeremiah SlaczkaOutstanding Achievement in AnimationUncharted 2: Among Thieves•       Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment•       Developer: Naughty Dog•       Lead Animators: Josh Scherr, Jeremy Lai-Yates, Mike YoshOutstanding Achievement in Visual EngineeringUncharted 2: Among Thieves•       Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment•       Developer: Naughty Dog•       Technology Director: Pal-Kristian EngstadOutstanding Achievement in Art Direction:Uncharted 2: Among Thieves•       Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment•       Developer: Naughty Dog•       Art Directors: Erick Pangilinan, Robh RuppelOutstanding Achievement in Story -AdaptedBatman: Arkham Asylum•       Publisher: Eidos/Warner Bros Interactive Entertainment•       Developer: Rocksteady Studios•       Writers: Paul Dini, Paul CrockerOutstanding Character PerformanceBatman: Arkham Asylum – Joker•       Publisher: Eidos/Warner Bros Interactive Entertainment•       Developer: Rocksteady Studios•       Writers: Paul Dini, Paul Crocker•       Voice Actor: Mark HamillOutstanding Achievement in Online Game PlayCall of Duty: Modern Warfare 2•       Publisher: Activision•       Developer: Infinity Ward•       Lead Online Designer: Todd AldermanOutstanding Achievement in Story - OriginalUncharted 2: Among Thieves•       Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment•       Developer: Naughty Dog•       Writers: Amy Hennig, Neil Druckmann, Josh ScherrOutstanding Achievement in Original Music CompositionUncharted 2: Among Thieves•       Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment•       Developer: Naughty Dog•       Composer: Greg EdmonsonOutstanding Achievement in SoundtrackBrütal Legend•       Publisher: Electronic Arts•       Developer: Double Fine Productions•       Music Supervisor: Emily RidgwayOutstanding Achievement in Game Play EngineeringUncharted 2: Among Thieves•       Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment•       Developer: Naughty DogLead Game Play Programmer: Travis McIntoshOutstanding Achievement in Sound DesignUncharted 2: Among Thieves•       Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment•       Developer: Naughty DogOutstanding Achievement in Portable Game DesignScribblenauts•       Publisher: Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment•       Developer: 5th Cell Media•       Lead Level Designer: Matt CoxPortable Game of the YearScribblenauts•       Publisher: Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment•       Developer: 5th Cell Media•       Producer: Joseph M. Tringali•       Creative Director: Jeremiah Slaczka•       Game Director: Jeremiah SlaczkaAnyway, what do you think?
&bull; It may be "full steam ahead" for Yahoo and Microsoftnow that their tie-up has been given the green light by European regulators, but don't expect anything revolutionary soon - the two companies say it's unlikely that a Bing-powered, Yahoo-designed engine will roll out any time before 2012.&bull; Here's an interesting one picked up by Engadget - apparently Sony Ericsson boss Bert Nordberg said thatGoogle had asked SE to build the Nexus One before it turned to HTC. Nordberg said he turned down the opportunity, though the company is building its own Android handset anyway. Strange.&bull; I've mentionedPictorybefore - a new online photo magazine that pulls together elements of the Big Picture and JPG into short narratives.The latest instalment, entitled The One Who Got Away, is beautiful. I'm just waiting for a good opportunity to contribute myself. On that bittersweet note, have a good weekend.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Carol Bartz and Steve Ballmer sign an agreement between Yahoo and Microsoft in July 2009The proposed link-up between Microsoft and Yahoo has been approved by European regulators, paving the way for the two companies to combine their search engines and take on Google together.Senior figures said that plans to implement the 10-year agreement,which was first announced last summer, were now underway after the European Commission said it did not believe the deal would harm consumers. The US Department of Justice had previously said that it was happy with the proposal.Under the terms of the agreement, Microsoft's technology will now power Yahoo search, with the two companies sharing revenue generated by the site.Yahoo chief executive Carol Bartz, who brokered the deal soon after being installed in the job last year, said that the idea was to allow her company to focus on providing services that internet users enjoyed - not on developing the technology."This breakthrough search alliance means Yahoo can focus even more on our own innovative search experience," she said in a statement.Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer said that the two companies could offer better competition to Google together than separately."Although we are just at the beginning of this process, we have reached an exciting milestone," he said. "I believe that together, Microsoft and Yahoo will promote more choice, better value and greater innovation to our customers as well as to our advertisers and publishers."The approval marks the latest step forward in an arduous process that first started more than two years ago withMicrosoft's surprise $44bn bid to buy Yahoo outright.The Californian web company initiallyrebuffed those advances, with co-founder Jerry Yang - then chief executive - repeatedly saying that the deal undervalued Yahoo.While Microsoft submitted a renewed bid shortly afterwards, Yangattempted to engineer a deal with Googlethat would fend off the software giant - only to see Google pull out after the agreement wasquestioned by US regulators.Yang stood aside in January last year to be replaced by Bartz, while at the same timeMicrosoft relaunched its own search engineunder the name Bing and began investing heavily in marketing as it attempts to claw back market share from Google.In aposting on Yahoo's website, the head of the company's search team said it was "full steam ahead"."With Microsoft providing us the underlying list of search results, our Yahoo team can now focus on making the overall experience of finding stuff online and getting things done easier for you," said Shashi Seth, the company's senior vice president of search products.Despite its troubles in recent years, Yahoo remains the world's second-largest search engine. In the US, Google is responsible for 66% of all searches, with Yahoo significantly behind with 17.5% and Microsoft trailing in third place with 10%.According to worldwide figures from web company StatCounter, however, the gap is even wider globally - with Google receiving around 90% of searches, Yahoo 4% and Bing 3.4%.The deal is still pending approval from authorities in Asia, but the first full implementation of the joint agreement is not expected to be in place until 2012.
Thetower defense genrehas become one of the most popular and densely overcrowded game types in the casual sphere, its simplified battle strategy recipe attracting more desperate reinventions than Katie Price's PR strategy.But few variations on the theme have proved as stylish and entertaining asPlants vs Zombies, another perfectly balanced, helplessly addictive super treat from the indefatigablePopcapstable. Released on Mac and PC last year to an enthusiastic critical reception, it has now shuffled onto the iPhone and iPod where it's set to attract a new legion of slavish followers.Your job here is simple. There's been a zombie apocalypse (yes, another one), and you must protect your home from the incoming undead hordes by nurturing various killer plants in your garden. Peashooters fire projectiles at your slavering enemies, while cherry bushes blow them up and walnuts (or 'wall nuts' as they're known here) stop them in their tracks for several seconds. At first, only a few seed types are available to you, but each time you complete a stage, you unlock a new plant weapon.The catch is, just as you need to mine for resources in an RTS in order to build units, here you must top up on sunlight to grow each new vegetable-based assassin. This involves catching the sunlight icons that fall from the top of the screen, or planting sunflowers, which generate their own sunlight: a decent patch of these is necessary to really start building a strong leafy armoury.However, tower defense games are all about balance and PvZ is no exception. For a start, you can only select six seed types on each level; do you go for the little ones that grow quickly but inflict less damage, or stock up on the big guns like the chomper, which eats zombies whole, but takes longer to germinate? Added to this is the array of different zombies – some wear helmets (or rather tin buckets and traffic cones) to protect them from your pea bullets, while others sport special skills like the ability to pole-vault over your emplacements. They'll all eat your plants when they get close enough, so the battlefield is a constant tug-of-war between your green fingers and their gaping, insatiable jaws.The key to success is managing your weapon lines, ensuring you have a well-protected patch of sunflowers to generate light, and also an array of different plants in each line (the zombies kindly attack in columns from the far end of your garden) to cope with any type of enemy that wanders by. Fortunately, the touch controls are perfectly implemented allowing you to tap on a seed type from your menu and just jab where you want it to go. It's actually more intuitive than the Mac/PC mouse iteration and allows for really rapid engagement – extremely useful for the later more chaotic levels.Added challenges come later when nighttime falls, drastically reducing your sunlight production; after that, you move to different locations around your house, each bringing new difficulties. But then, it's also possible to pick up coins throughout the game which allow you to buy various upgrades – again, it's all about balance and Popcap has got the fulcrum absolutely right here, between constantly evolving threats, and a gradually boosted armoury.The game is beautifully presented too, with detailed and amusing animations (especially the OAP zombie who hobbles on reading a newspaper only to become enraged when your projectiles destroy his reading material), and a suitably eccentric soundtrack. And of course, the overriding concept itself, marrying the approachable gardening feel of, say, Farmville, with cartoon zombie horror, is wonderfully realised.So predictably, Popcap has done it again. Following the wonderful iPhone translations of Bejeweled and Peggle, Plants vs Zombies is masterful stuff, loaded with charm and an utter joy to interact with via the iPhone touchscreen.  For those who feel they are irreversibly exhausted with tower defense games, the sleek presentation here may just spark some life back into the genre. Everyone else should consider it an essential purchase – if only to hear the zombies drone 'brains!' as they march toward your front door.
The death of originality in modern video games has, it seems, been greatly exaggerated. Heavy Rain almost instantly telegraphs its differentiation from its gun-obsessed peers by encouraging you to brush your just-awoken character's teeth and shave him, using right-analogue-stick gestures, prescribed button-presses and shakes of the motion-sensing PS3 controller, which (very vaguely) correspond to their real-life counterparts. As you guide architect Ethan Mars through a period of family life, the novelty lies in performing mundane tasks.Soon, though, things take a turn, when one of Mars's sons is run over during a disastrous mall visit, and he ends up divorced, in a grim flat, trying to reconnect with his remaining son, while a serial killer dubbed the Origami Killer embarks on a spree. Soon, you're introduced to another innovative game device. Over the course of Heavy Rain, you take control over three other characters – insomniac photographer Madison Paige, FBI operative Norman Jaden and private eye Scott Shelby – all of whom also seek the Origami Killer. When Mars's remaining son becomes his latest kidnap victim, they work out that he will stay alive until six inches of rain have fallen; an unrelenting monsoon, documented in terms of rainfall inches, adds a sense of urgency.Heavy Rain gets closer than any previous game to conveying the sense that you are controlling the protagonists in an interactive movie – firmly entrenched in the film noir genre, its storyline (twist-laden, naturally) is able to suck you in completely, thanks to the most convincing facial and bodily animation yet seen in a game. Gameplay-wise, despite the cleverly conceived controls, it remains very much rooted in the venerable point-and-click adventure genre. At key moments, you must press and hold increasingly arcane combinations of buttons, triggers and stick-gestures, a process akin to playing Twister with your fingers. At times, it appears to cheat by withholding your desired outcome, even though you jumped through the designated hoops. More than a tad frustrating, even if it does add replay value to what is a disappointingly short game.Atmospherically it is gloriously, unyieldingly miserable and at times positively harrowing, demonstrating an astonishing and enormously laudable refusal to compromise by developer Quantic Dream and publisher Sony. Curiously, though, once the novelty of the control system wears off, the most satisfying tasks you perform seem to be the most trivial ones. When you're finally given a chance to shoot a character, rather than talking him down, you accept it with relief – even though the game strongly hints that you shouldn't. At other times, your emotional investment in the characters actually proves counter-productive – for example, when you can choose between multiple courses of action, yet all are complete anathema to what you would do if you were him or her. Still, it's impressive that the game makes you feel like an actor rather than a puppetmaster.Heavy Rain is the perfect riposte to anyone who contends that games are mindless orgies of violence but, unfortunately, its determination to prove that point brings about periods of deeply annoying gameplay. However, it is at the very least an emotional tour de force, and a must-buy for PS3 owners which will generate considerable bragging rights to use against owners of rival consoles.
Eric Schmidt, the chief executive of Google, tried to reassure operators this week that the search engine's direct entry into mobile phones through its Android platform was designed to make telcos money, not to turn them into "dumb pipes".He told anxious operators at theMobile World Congress in Barcelonathat Google had no intention of building broad infrastructure to compete with the operators. Google's protests that it is helping others to make money will be taken with a pinch of salt by other businesses such as newspapers and sat-nav operators (who have been undermined by Google's free alternative) but welcomed by consumers.Of course Google isn't going to build a rival infrastructure. It is going to bypass it altogether by using Wi-Fi as it becomes increasingly available and letting users choose which operator they might use in conjunction. A week ago I bought Google's new Nexus mobile device from its US website as my main phone.Make no mistake, it is game-changing in two important ways. First, it turns the operators from arbiters of how you can use your phone into the equivalent of finance companies. I paid $529 (£338) for a SIM-free phone. I could have left it at that and just used it at the increasing number of Wi-Fi hotspots around town – but that would deprive me of incoming calls and the ability to use services such as mapping in places where there is no Wi-Fi. So I signed up with O2 for a pay-as-you go Sim plus an "unlimited" data package for a very reasonable £7.50 a month. If that isn't turning the operator into a "dumb pipe" then I don't know what is.Others have offered Sim-free phones in the past. What makes this different is that it comes with Google's integrated suite of services, giving an easy user experience. One click and my Gmail comes up, another one and the day's calendar, or Twitter or whatever – appears to fill the ample 3.7in screen.The game-changing part is the way Google is bringing voice back to the telephone in a way that hasn't happened before. A few months ago I tried the company's voice search out by speaking an inquiry instead of typing it inand was amazed that it got it right the first three times. Now, on a more extensive test, while well under 100%, it is highly impressive and I intend to use it as my default method of searching for standard queries. It beatsthe otherwise impressive Vlingo(on my BlackBerry) for speed and accuracy.Google could have another killer app in the rollout – starting in the US – of its own internet telephone system for mobiles. When that is seamlessly integrated into all the other features that 150m Gmail users enjoy then Google could become a major international telephone operator in its own right. And if Wi-Fi ever becomes ubiquitous, then the sky's the limit. All this will provide competition for Skype and the up-and-coming UK based Truphone, which I use for all my long-distance calls via a downloaded web app from my iPod Touch. Truphone has its own killer app that neither Skype nor Google has – you can get through to a real human being when things go wrong. Miracles can happen.If the existing operators come under siege in a few year's time as a result of web telephony, then they have only themselves to blame for the often contemptuous way they have treated consumers. Sure, they have, commendably, invested billions in much-needed infrastructure, but that is no excuse for what they have done.They have made three major errors of business strategy and are about to make a fourth. First, they built walled gardens around their phones – depriving users of the universality of the web. One early Vodafone smartphone didn't even have Google on it. When I inquired why, I was told there was no demand for it. As a consequence of their walled gardens of selected products they paid pathetic revenue shares to content providers thereby strangling an embryonic industry at birth until Apple resuscitated it. Had they opened their walls and given developers a fair return they could have created an app revolution long before Apple.Second, by milking their customers for exorbitant amounts every time they used their phones to access websites, they delayed the mobile data revolution by several years. It was only when Apple insisted on adopting a fixed tariff – though it wasn't the first – that web access from phones soared.Third,by treating promiscuous customers more favourably than loyal onesthey abandoned the basis of trust that all good brands need. And the next mistake? They are pushing for abandonment of "net neutrality" whereby all customers are treated more or less equally. They hope to make more money by giving bandwidth preference to content they get money from. You can imagine how popular that will be if some customers get slow broadband or none at all to make way for other people to watch Sky or Virgin videos.As a phone, Google's Nexus is the usual mixture of pluses and minuses. It has got a great 5 megapixel cameraas can be seen hereand a much better screen resolution than the iPhone, but the touchscreen itself is less reliable. Althoughit has over 20,000 apps in its store– and growing – they are not yet near the quality of the iPhone's archive. Surprisingly, I have been very disappointed so far with Google's mapping which ought to be its biggest strength. On a cloudy country walk it failed to make any connection with a satellite for a longitude/latitude fix and as mobile reception was flaky it didn't download complete maps.Unlike Nokia's maps, which can be embedded in your phone Google has to rely on a web connection to download them each time. The other thing about it – and most other similar – phones which doesn't get reported much is that it is actually difficult to read the screen when you most need to – walking in daylight. But one has to admit for all these occasional quibbles the new generation of smartphones offers awesome yet affordable technology. I would not have dreamed it possible 20 years ago.twitter.com/vickeegan
In response to your story aboutMicrosoft Office 2010 priced from free, will it be possible in future to purchase Office 2010 applications as separate programs? I'm interested in Outlook, and I wonder if Ask Jack might be able to enlighten me on that.CyteckMicrosoft UK has just released estimated retail prices for separate applications, so you can assume that all of these will be available separately. Basically they all cost £119.99 each -- that's Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, Publisher and Access -- except for OneNote, which costs £69.99.
About 75,000 personal computers in almost 2,500 companies and government agencies across the globe have been caught in a botnet uncovered by a researcher at the US-basedNetWitnessnetwork forensics firm. Hackers were able to collect logins and passwords for Facebook, Yahoo, Hotmail and other accounts, including online banking sites. They were also able to access some corporate servers used to store confidential data, including one used for processing credit-card payments.Companies reportedly attacked include Paramount Pictures, Merck, Juniper Networks and Cardinal Health in the US, but affected computers in more than 200 countries including Egypt, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, Turkey.The Wall Street Journalreported that Merck and Cardinal Health said they had isolated and contained the problem, and Merck said "no sensitive information was compromised".NetWitness's Alex Cox uncovered the botnet while installing monitoring software to help a large corporation deal with cyberattacks. He found a 75GB cache of data generated by the botnet, which NetWitness has called Kneber after a username linking the infected systems. NetWitness said in a statement: "Disturbingly, the data was only a one-month snapshot of data from a campaign that has been in operation for more than a year."The PCs in question, almost all running Microsoft Windows XP or Vista, had been compromised by a new variant of the well-known ZeuS Trojan, which is one of the "top five" in its class.Cox told the SearchSecurity.com sitethat the variant used in the latest attacks had a detection rate of less than 10% among antivirus software. The botnet communication was also shielded from detection by existing intrusion detection systems."This is not about a single piece of malware on 75,000 machines, it's about how bad the security industry is responding to these incidents and how bad the problem is," said Cox.SearchSecurity.com said "the cybercriminals exploited vulnerabilities in Adobe Flash as well as holes in Adobe Reader and Acrobat using malicious PDF applications in spear phishing attacks, according to Cox. They also used exploit kits to set up drive-by attacks to infect victims."The discovery of the Kneber botnet follows publicity about attempts to penetrate Google and other companies, dubbed Operation Aurora. In this case, the botnet command centre appears to have been in Germany, while ZeuS appears to be mainly the work of cybercriminals based in Eastern Europe. ZeuS is often used to collect data from online forms, including names, dates of birth, and account names and passwords, and one special feature is that it can work with the Firefox web browser.Amit Yoran, chief executive of NetWitness and former Director of the National Cyber Security Division, said: "While Operation Aurora shed light on advanced threats from sponsored adversaries, the number of compromised companies and organizations pales in comparison to this single botnet. These large-scale compromises of enterprise networks have reached epidemic levels. Cyber criminal elements, like the Kneber crew quietly and diligently target and compromise thousands of government and commercial organizations across the globe. Conventional malware protection and signature based intrusion detection systems are by definition inadequate for addressing Kneber or most other advanced threats."NetWitness also said that "over half the machines infected with Kneber also were infected with Waledac, a peer to peer botnet." This suggests some level of co-existence if not active cooperation between cybercriminals, where a PC could continue to operate in one botnet even if the other was found and removed. Earlier this month, there was a small "botnet war" after the upstart Spy Eye appeared with a feature called Kill Zeus. This aims to remove ZeuS from the victim's PC, giving Spy Eye exclusive access. However, by far the biggest and best botnet is still Conficker, with more than 5m PCs.
It's not every day somebody gives you a call and hands over millions.That is unless you're Nigel Page and Justine Laycock,the Gloucestershire couple who won £56m on the lottery last weekend... or Jimmy Wales.The Wikimedia Foundation - the organisation that runs Wikipedia- scored its own unexpected windfall yesterday, when it officially announced that Googlewas giving it a $2m grant.This is the Wikimedia Foundation's first grant from Google. The funds will support core operational costs of the Wikimedia Foundation, including investments in technical infrastructure to support rapidly-increasing global traffic and capacity demands. The funds will also be used to support the organization's efforts to make Wikipedia easier to use and more accessible."Wikipedia is one of the greatest triumphs of the internet," offered Google co-founder Sergey Brin. "This vast repository of community-generated content is an invaluable resource to anyone who is online."For the website, the donation comes as the icing on the cake. Over the last few months, Wikipedia's been on a rather relentless fundraising drive that ended up bringing in $8m of cash to keep it going.And it shouldn't be a complete surprise that Google is dipping into its pocket - after all, the internet goliath is not above supporting projects that help its users in some way. In the past it has pumped money into projects like Mozilla's Firefox and various university research projects.But why Wikipedia?Well, in general Google focuses on giving money to causes that will help make life better or easier for its users. That might be opening up a database that improves search results, offering a browser that is faster or more flexible than others, or finding new ways to collect and disseminate information.Seen in that light, the Wikipedia grant is simple: the site'svast database of articlesand search-engine friendly approach means it gets featured heavily in Google's results pages.Studies have shown how much traffic is sent from Google to Wikipedia, and on any number of queries, a Wikipedia result will be one of the first thing that a Google user sees.What is good for Wikipedia - making the site faster, more reliable and more accessible - helps Google's users get what they want, and is therefore good for the company itself. It's not a grant, it's an investment in making sure it can keep dominating search.Still, though, it doesn't hurt to be wary of Google's long-term motivations. After all, it was the company's support of a popular open source browser like Firefox that begat (in part) its development of Chrome.However, there may be one reason that Wikipedia isn't worried: it's already seen off one attempt by Google to encroach on its territory that came a couple of years ago in the shape ofKnol- remember that?The system - touted at launch asGooglepedia, and called "an attack on the media industry in general"here on this very blogby Jack - Knol has become yet another one of Google's projects that fell by the wayside.In the official announcement, Jimmy Wales skipped past all that kerfuffle."We are very pleased and grateful. This is a wonderful gift, and we celebrate it as recognition of the long-term alignment and friendship between Google and Wikimedia," he said. "Both organisations are committed to bringing high quality information to hundreds of millions of individuals every day, and to making the Internet better for everyone."Let's see where this leads.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; The seemingly unstoppableFacebookhas hit a new milestone,surpassing Yahoo to become America's second most popular website(after Google). That's partially the result of counting methods used by Compete.com (which mean that services such as Flickr don't count towards Yahoo's total) but even so, it's clear what direction the two companies are headed in. I'm not sure whether this marks a high point for The Church of Zuckerberg or a low for Yahoo - which, despite the heavy criticism over the years, has remained one of the biggest web properties around.&bull; Thursday could see the end of the saga surrounding theGoogle book settlement, the never-ending, highly controversial plan to pay $125m to authors and publishers for the right to scan in-copyright books and make them available online.I've previewed the announcement here, but right now it's anyone's guess as to which direction Denny Chin - the judge who's examining the case - will go.&bull; Perhaps one of the most surprising things aboutWindows Phone 7 series announcement earlier this weekwas that it looked nice - well-designed and visually appealing, two things that are very important to making an intuitive touch interface on a small screen. But if you want to get a better idea of how WP7 stacks up against the iPhone, you can run through this really niceside-by-side comparison of the two. We've still got to see how WP7 manages across lots of different hardware, but the basic feel - similar to the Zune HD - manages to make Windows Mobile feel modern again.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
The technology industry breathed a sigh of relief on Wednesday, after the world's largest computer manufacturer, Hewlett Packard, announced a 20% jump in quarterly profit.The Californian company said that revenues and income had risen significantly from this time last year, in what many saw as the strongest sign yet that the economic slump's impact on technology spending was almost over.Revenues for the first quarter of 2010 were up 8% to $31.2bn (£19.9bn), with profits rising to $2.3bn - up from $1.9bn a year ago. The company also said it was expecting more signs of recovery in the coming year, with projected earnings narrowly ahead of expectations."HP is well-positioned to outperform the market," said chairman and chief executive Mark Hurd, who has worked to cut costs at the company since taking over in 2005.The growth largely came from HP's computer and printer manufacturing businesses, as consumers - who had been reticent about purchasing during the downturn - started buying again.Whilefigures released by industry analysts Gartnersuggested that shipments in western Europe were flat, the company experienced what Hurd called "accelerating market momentum".That could be partially due to the impact of Microsoft's Windows 7, which launched last autumn andgave many PC manufacturers a boostby encouraging shoppers to purchase new hardware.The company's services business -which expanded significantly in 2008 with the $12.6bn purchase of EDS- did not enjoy a revival, however, with revenue falling by 1%.HP's results will please investors and analysts, but they have not been without its costs. The company has cut tens of thousands of jobs in the past two years, including 25,000 as a direct result of the EDS acquisition, and plans a further 8,600 by October.Last month more than 1,000 HP staff who work for the Department of Work and Pensionstook strike actionin protest at job losses.Shares rose marginally in after hours trading, to 50.12.
Games generally have an objective. From cards to family boardgames, there are instructions on "How to win". But as computer games ­become more complex, some people are ­changing their approach to get new experiences out of old games.There are the hilarious YouTube ­videos of Rollercoaster Tycoon (the theme-park simulation in which the aim is to create profitable rides) in which players have set up elaboraterollercoaster crashes– and just to make you feel better, all the pixelated passengers get up at the end. Meanwhile,Noor the Pacificist, an online gamer, decided to play through to the highest levels of World of Warcraft (the clue to the game's objective is in its title) without intentionally killing anything.The Sims 3 is set up as a game of middle-class aspirations: get a job, find a home, make money, work hard, find a partner and have a family. But in the blog narrative"Alice and Kev", games design student Robin Burkinshaw created homeless characters. The moving narrative followed the paranoid and delusional Kev and his daughter Alice as they attempted – mostly unsuccessfully – to find jobs and love in a conformist world.Some game designers have even built this sort of subversion into their games. In Half Life 2: Episode Two, one unlockable achievement is to "send the garden gnome into space". To ­accomplish this, players have to travel through a world in which humanity has been brought to its knees by alien slavemasters, while carrying a garden gnome. Reviewer Tom Francis and ­others have createdimages of this ­exploit, which turns the game from a sci-fi shooter todadaist happening.These are just a few highlights – for pretty much any videogame there'll be a video of someone playing it in a silly way. Maybe we can extend this to real life: next time I feel bored, I'll try wandering around with a garden gnome.
I've got a Toshiba Satellite Pro M70 laptop. It's now four years old and, basically, it's full. (I got a 500GB external hard drive but I think the issue is bigger than that.) My partner has a two year old Samsung R60 Plus: it's not full.We would like to be able to watch TV in our study, including downloaded programmes. Should I buy a bigger laptop with Windows 7 -- I was thinking of the HP Pavilion dv7-2215SA -- or should I carry on with my current laptop and buy a new desktop PC?Jack WilliamsonPS I've always liked your column and I really miss the Thursday tech section first thing. Going online is just not the same.There are a lot of different options, and picking the best one for you is probably a matter of taste. My preference would be to get a decent desktop PC running Microsoft Windows 7, which has outstanding media centre software, and plug it into a big monitor or LCD monitor/TV (see below). Desktops are better value than laptops. However, I fear the Toshiba Satellite Pro M70 is approaching the end of its useful life. It was never the snappiest PC (1.73GHz Pentium M 740) and if yours has the 60GB hard drive, it's no surprise if it's full.If you need to replace the old Tosh, then the HP Pavilion dv7-2215SA would be a good choice. It might not be quite as solidly made, but it has a very big screen (17.3 inches) and a decent specification for a low price. However, it's being replaced by the HP Pavilion dv7-3101sa (£599.99), and you should be able to get one from 15 March. I'd wait for that.If you do not need to replace the old Tosh, then you could get a touch-screen all-in-one PC with a built-in TV tuner. The Aspire Z5600-L, for example, gets you a 22-inch HD screen, better sound, a remote control and a more enjoyable TV-watching experience, plus a wireless keyboard and mouse.Tesco was offering them at £799, which is good value. If this idea appeals, you should also check out some of the all-in-one entertainment PCs from HP, Sony, Medion and others.Yet another alternative would be to buy an LCD monitor with a built-in TV tuner -- great for watching TV -- and connect it to a small, cheap computer. This could be a laptop or a small PC such as an Acer Revo, Asus Eee Box, Mesh Cute, Dell Zino or whatever -- just don't buy anything with a single-core processor, and double check the speed of the graphics.Suitable LCD monitors/TVs include the 22-inch Samsung P2270HD Ecofit 22, the 22-inch and 24-inch Asus T1 monitors, and the 21.5 inch Philips 221T1. The Samsung is currently £219.99 at Amazon.co.uk, which will give you an idea how much you'd have left for the PC part.I like this idea, but I've not tried any of the LCD monitor/TV sets myself. If you use one, please tell us if they're as good as they sound, and which of the various models is the best,
The next step forward for social gaming is user-generated content. The likes of Farmville and Happy Aquarium have gained millions of players through the addictive combination of simple asset management gameplay with customisation and sharing elements - but the future is content that gamers create themselves and either swap with friends or even sell for in-game currencies.Clearly testing the water in this direction, social gaming behemothPlayfishhas just launched thePet Society Movie Awards. Players of the massively successful Facebook critter-rearing game are being invited to recreate famous scenes from classic movies using items available in the game world. Hundreds of costumes, scenic objects and interior design components are attainable, either through gaining experience in the game, or via microtransaction payments; imaginative players are able to assemble these into recognisable cinematic moments - albeit with brashly coloured pets replacing the actors.Gamers can take a photo of the scene with the in-game camera, and then submit their efforts to the dedicated Facebook page, which already has about 3000 entries. What's interesting is the way that some entrants are already subverting the 'rules', Photoshopping their characters onto actual movie scenes or creating their own comic strips. Naturally, there are a lot of Twilight-themed entries, but also, thanks to the presence of a large winding staircase and a prominent park bench in the Pet Society map, Gone With the Wind and Forrest Gump are also proving popular.The clever bit for Playfish is that winning entries (there are ten categories in all) receive Playfish Cash, so it's a totally contained endeavour.And okay, this is quite a twee little diversion, but user creativity and the subsequent marketplace that it will generate is going to be very important moving forward. There are already dozens of Facebook based around UGC, including the daftBumper Sticker(players draw and share... bumper stickers) and Rockyou'sBirthday Cards, which lets users create cards and send them to Facebook pals. Indeed Facebook is the perfect arena for UGC, because you can easily tailor your content toward your friends, and allow them to co-operate on projects.Then there's stuff likeSploder, a simple game creation utility that lets you build Flash games (without knowing Flash), and then embed them on your Facebook page. I've yet to see a Facebook game with a full drag-and-drop level editor but that's bound to be next.Meanwhile, Facebook gamers can content themselves with re-creating scenes from Casablanca using only some kittens, period head gear and a monochrome filter...
A New York judge is due to rule on Thursday whether Google's plans to make millions of in-copyright books available online are legal – potentially bringing an end to the company's controversial quest to create the world's biggest digital library.After a long battle to force through the scheme, which would give Google the right to sell online access to the books and share the proceeds with authors and publishers, Judge Denny Chin of the Southern District Court will decide on Thursday whether to allow a proposed deal between the internet company and two major American publishing groups to stand.But the future of the project hangs in the balance amid continued opposition from the US government, prominent authors and Google's rivals – who say the deal could hand the search giant a monopoly over online book sales and could damage the long-term prospects for millions of writers and publishers.Google's project to scan books and make the text searchable and available online has been under way for several years, but the controversy around it gathered speed in October 2008 when the company announced a plan to end a lawsuit filed by the Authors Guild and the Association of American Publishers. That suit hadaccused its book scanning project of "massive copyright infringement"– but the company came to an agreement that would allow it to continue, in exchange for restrictions on what it could do.Under the terms of that original deal, the Californian internet company would pay the Authors Guild and the Association of American Publishers $125m (£79.5m) for the right to scan in copyright books and sell them online.However, a string of objections from prominent organisations – including the US Justice Department, Amazon and writers' groups – scuppered the agreement and led toa revised version of the settlement being filed at the end of last year.It is not yet clear how Judge Chin will rule on the new agreement, but the objections have continued – with critics suggesting that that deal would still give Google a monopoly on virtual book sales, set up a cartel and unwittingly infringe the rights of millions of authors.Earlier this month, the Justice Department said that although the revised settlement represented "substantial progress", it was still opposed to the deal. Meanwhile, a number of writers have publicly come out against the second deal – including Ursula Le Guin, who resigned from the Authors Guildamid accusations that it was making a "deal with the devil" and selling its members "down the river".Peter Brantley, of the Open Book Alliance – a group that represents several organisations opposed to the deal – said that Google had failed to make crucial changes that would make the settlement more palatable.He suggested that Google should have dropped the scheme's approach of forcing authors to come forward if they object to its terms, rather than asking them to opt in if they want to take part."I think by the end of the day on Thursday, we will have some sense of how this action will be perceived by the court," he said. "I believe that the statements of the dissenting parties, and in particular the Department of Justice, are clear in re-iterating that critical deformities exist in the proposal."Google's revised plans did not leave much room for manoeuvre, he added."That leaves Google and the parties very little grace when the judge appraises the proposed settlement against the significant issues of copyright, class action, and antitrust law."In its own filings, the internet's most powerful company said it was vital for the deal to go through as a way of expanding access to information online."Approval of the settlement will open the virtual doors to the greatest library in history," it said. "To deny the settlement will keep those library doors locked."
Western Europe PC Vendor Unit Shipment Estimates for 4Q094Q09 Shipments4Q09 Market Share (%)4Q08 Shipments4Q08 Market Share (%)4Q09-4Q08 Growth (%)Acer467323.1349017.933.9HP431121.3465823.9-7.5Dell20049.9203210.4-1.4Asus1631814907.69.4Toshiba12596.212776.6-1.4Others638731.5653933.6-2.3Total20265100194861004Note: Data includes desk-based PCs and mobile PCs (thousands of units)Western Europe's PC shipments grew by 4% to 20.2m units in the fourth quarter of 2009, according toGartner figures released today. Shipments for the year were flat at 64.8m units, but could have been worse. Ranjit Atwal, a principal analyst at Gartner in the UK, said: "The Western European PC market performed better than expected. Despite the tough economic conditions the consumer PC market provided vendors with a source of growth."The company that benefited most was Taiwan's Acer, which has been particularly successful with its affordable portable PCs and netbooks. It became the leading vendor in Western Europe, where its shipments grew by 33.9% to 4.7m units. In Germany, its shipments grew by 87.1% to 808,000 units.Acer took 23.1% of the PC market in Western Europe, narrowly ahead of HP's 21.3%. Trailing a long way behind were Dell (9.1%), Asus (8.0%) and Toshiba (6.2%). Atwal said: "Outside the top five vendors, we saw Apple, Samsung, Lenovo and Sony post significant growth compared to a year ago. Collectively, these vendors are increasing share and putting considerable competitive pressure on the top five."Acer also topped the table in the UK, where the surprise was that Samsung made the top five after its PC shipments grew by 98.2% to 244,000 units. This is more than Apple, Asus, Lenovo or Sony, and is a testament to the appeal of Samsung's range of netbooks.In France, the surprise entry was Apple, which took fifth place in the table on shipments that grew by 43.5% to 182,000 units. The French league table was headed by Acer (24.7%), followed by HP (24.4%), Dell (10.4%), Asus (10.2%) and Apple (5.5%).In Germany, Acer led the way again, with a market share of 19.4%, ahead of HP (11.1%). Asus's shipments grew by 34.6% to 414,000 and it took third spot from Dell (8.5%). Medion came fifth (7.8%).The German PC market was the largest, with shipments of 4.2m units, ahead of the UK (3.8m) and France (3.3m). All of them could do better this year. Meike Escherich, also a principal analyst at Gartner in the UK, said: "2010 could turn out to be the year for the PC industry. All-in-one desktops with touchscreen, mini-notebooks, affordable ultra-thin-and-light notebooks, and the new tablet PCs should help re-invigorate buyers' interest in PCs."
This year has seen the introduction of a new generation of netbooks based on Intel's Pine Trail platform. By moving to a more advanced 45nm fabrication process, Intel has been able to put the graphics and memory control circuitry on the same die as the Atom, reduce the power requirements, and provide much better battery life.A sticker on the 1005PE says it will run for 11 hours, which compares with 8.5 hours for the popular 1005HA version. Of course, it also depends on the power settings, whether you have Wi-Fi and Bluetooth turned off, and how much time you spend watching videos. However, the 1005PE should easily get you through a normal working day, and if you need more, there's another version (PU17) that claims up to 14 hours.The disappointing thing about the 1.66GHz N450 Pineview processor is that it doesn't provide a visible increase in performance compared with the old N270 and N280 chips running Windows XP. With 1GB of memory, the 1005PE runs Microsoft Windows 7 Starter responsively, but it doesn't have much to spare, and it would be worth upgrading to 2GB.I found the N450's integrated Intel GMA3150 graphics circuitry wasn't able to run high-definition YouTube movies (720p) without stuttering, though it was OK for the BBC's iPlayer. The 1005PE scores 2.3 on the Windows Experience Index, which is down to the processor. It's rated 2.7 for graphics and 3.0 for gaming graphics, with better results for the memory (4.5) and 250GB hard drive (5.8).Like the 1005HA, the 1005PE uses Asus's popular Seashell design: it's slim, tapers nicely, and has a polished lid. It weighs 1.3kg. The 10in screen is reasonable quality but not exceptional, and the 1024 x 600 pixel resolution feels a bit cramped by today's standards. The 1005PE has a new "isolated keyboard" which is also reasonably good, the main drawback being the tiny shift keys. The mouse pad is small and has a texture effect, but supports multi-touch operations. The mouse buttons are on a one-bar rocker switch, though I'd prefer two buttons.The 1005PE is not short of ports. You get a full RJ45 Ethernet port, three USB ports, an SD card slot, and a VGA monitor port. The battery is removable, of course, and there's a built-in 1.3 megapixel webcam.Like many other Asus machines, the 1005PE also includes ExpressGate and Asus's own software dock, which drops down from the top of the screen, and links to 500GB of free online storage. ExpressGate provides an "instant start" based on the SplashTop version of Linux, embedded on the motherboard. Since Windows 7 comes up very quickly from standby, there no longer seems much point.The 1005PE is a good all-rounder for about £290, and it's a huge improvement on Asus's first cheap-and-cheerful 7in Eee PC netbook. However, the silver Toshiba NB305 and Lenovo ThinkPad X100e feel a bit more solid and have better keyboards, and there are rivals from Dell, HP, Samsung, Sony and other big companies. As more Pine Trail notebooks hit the shelves, this looks like being a very competitive market.Pros:Seashell styling; excellent battery life; Windows 7 Starter; free web storage.Cons:Limited screen depth (600 pixels); tiny shift keys; N450's limited performance.Asus.com
Microsoft announced the UK prices for Microsoft Office 2010 this morning and, like the US prices unveiled last month, they're down. (For details, see:Microsoft Office 2010 priced from free.) There are plenty of reasons for this, though it's hard to know which have been most influential. The main ones may be the arrival of online office suites and competition from Open Office, both of which are free. Limited as they are, they must reduce the perceived value of Office, to some extent.But there has also been the huge success of the cheap Home and Student version, which you can install on three PCs. At Christmas, this was one of Amazon.com's top three best-sellers. Indeed, Microsoft says Office has been the top selling PC software product, including games, at US retail for the past seven years.That success has led to the launch of the Office Home and Business version at £239.99, which might have the same effect. That is, it could encourage more Office users to pay a reasonable price for a proper copy, rather than use a pirate version. And, to be frank, if you reckon you can't afford to pay roughly £1 a week (assuming the usual Amazon discount) for five top class programs then you're not being entirely honest with yourself.Another factor is the prospect of a reduction in the cost of packaging and distribution. Microsoft Office buyers have traditionally bought a box containing a bunch of discs and some paperwork. (I seem to recall that my full version of Office 2003 came on about a dozen CDs.) In the future, many copies of Office will be preinstalled on new PCs and unlocked using a key card, or downloaded instead.One catch is that if you unlock a pre-installed version, it only works on that PC. If you pay a bit extra for a boxed copy, you can install it on both your desktop and your laptop, and you already have a back-up copy.Another catch is that there are no longer any upgrade versions of Office 2010. In other words, the fact that already own a copy doesn't give you a reduced price on the new version. This may also mean Microsoft's price cuts are smaller than they look.Finally, there are always people who complain that Office has too many features and that they don't want to pay for it anyway. For them, Microsoft is introducing a Starter version of Office, possibly ad-supported, which will be shipped free with PCs from some manufacturers. Starter strips out most of the advanced features, though it will actually display documents that it lacks the functionality to edit.Starter replaces Microsoft Works and has the advantage that users will be able to read and write files in Word and Excel without downloading a free viewer. It will also provide Microsoft with the chance to sell people upgrades when they find out that they actually need features they thought were superfluous.Microsoft reckons that 250 million people already use Microsoft Office at home, but that could be less than half of the Windows home user base. It's clearly to Microsoft's long term advantage for more users to have their data in Microsoft file formats, so it makes sense to distribute Office widely to encourage their use*. Eventually, Google Docs should improve its ability to handle these file formats, but as long as Google Docs is rubbish at it -- and as long as internet connections are slow or non-existent over much of the globe -- there should still be a decent market for a suite with Office's power, performance and ease of use.* RememberSchofield's First Law of Computing, which says: never put data into a program unless you can see exactly how to get it out. Software is transitory but data lasts forever, or at least until you can no longer read the files. (I learned this by storing data in WordStar format on 8-inch floppies.)My law also holds true for the data that you load into the "cloud", via online apps, and will never see again after the supplier goes bust. Which 90% of them will.
Two years ago it was Mirror's Edge. EA's first-person chase game toyed with convention, tackled assumptions about user interfaces, and tested the way most magazines and websites approach the reviewing process, their regimented lists of criteria proving too dogmatic to truly reward it.So far, however, the response to Heavy Rain, the grimly atmospheric interactive drama from French developerQuantic Dream, has been much more intriguing. This is a title that always promised to defy established notions of 'gameplay'. Operating somewhere between the almost total linearity of Dragon's Lair, and theQTE-splattered quasi-interactivity of Shenmue's action scenes, it's a singular amalgam of cinematic and ludic devices. Those who call it an adventure game are wrong, those who call it little more than a movie with a few branching decision points are wrong. If it wasn't for the fact that Quantic Dream has been heading in this direction for years via the likes of Omikron: The Nomad Soul and Fahrenheit, I'd call it unprecedented.One factor is certain: the sense of atmosphere it creates is incredible. From the jarringly mundane  opening scenes, to the first major tragic event and beyond, there is a lingering sense of fear, isolation and dread that few games before have ever mustered. I'm not sure if it's the thoughtfully designed locations, the wonderful score or the, at times, intricately convincing human animation, but something drags you in.Ultimately perhaps, it's the fact that Quantic Dream's visionary director David Cage is a true student of cinematic theory. Whereas Kojima seems happy to skim along the surface of filmic method, Cage and his team have mastered the intricacies of mise-en-scene, timing and subjective camera work to subliminally create and sustain mood. There's a lovely moment, early in the game where grief-stricken architect Ethan Mars takes his withdrawn son Shaun to a playground – the two have drifted painfully apart since the accidental death of Shaun's brother, but here they suddenly bond, and as Ethan embraces his boy, a rainbow becomes visible amid the endless grey skies and battering rain. It sounds hackneyed, but it's so subtle and beautifully introduced, it's almost poetic.And the clever thing about the game is that it feels as though your interactions with the lead character actually reflect and heighten the atmosphere.  There's a scene with Ethan visiting his psychiatrist – you can pick up and play with objects, pace the room, sit down, stand up again – it's as though you're playing a creative part in the drama, as though you're the actor. It is an unexpectedly literal manifestation of experiemental game designerJane McGonigal's assertion that all gamers are performers. It maybe even hint at a new form of interactive narrative entertainment.But, as reviewers are writing, it is also fascinatingly flawed. The voice acting is horrible in places, and the dialogue grinds. No-one,no-onegets out of a shower and thinks to themselves, "I'm as clean as a whistle!", yet that's exactly what Ethan does in the first five minutes, and it more or less sets the tone for the the cliché-ridden scripting. The movement interface can be arduous, too, harking awkwardly back to the early days of the Resident Evil series when simple navigation tasks became frustrating tussles with a staggering somnambulant character. Yet, you are absolutely compelled to continue.Reviewers are currently grappling with these inconsistencies and contradictory tensions. This is actually a game that's worth thinking about, a game that asks questions about interactivity, narrativity and causality. And those questions are being considered. I lovedDavid Houghton's review on Games Radar, which brilliantly refers to Heavy Rain as 'augmented cinema', and goes on to intricately examine its failures while always maintaining an awe of its achievements. Also Tom Bramwell makes an important point inhis take on the game:"Heavy Rain is another game about killing, but the difference is that when you pull the trigger - if you pull the trigger - you're committing to something with consequences."Death is final here. And it's so fraught and panicked and messy, it resonates for hours. How weird, but how absolutely right.And here too, there's a central question about much of the game - the players' input often turns out to be of negligable importance; certain things always pan out in a certain way, it's just that there may be different routes to the conclusion.Does that matter? It feels like it should, but somehow, as part of the experience that Heavy Rain conjures, it doesn't; this is another aspect that reviewers are wrestling with. I'd like to think Quantic Dream is playing with the old philosophical questions of free will vs determinism, but that's probably only because I'm obsessed with Lost.I've yet to complete the game, but already, it feels as though it is part of that great European tradition of idiosyncratic, transgressive masterpieces. It deserves to be considered alongside the films of Michael Haneke and Lars von Trier, or the novels of Michel Houellebecq. Although really, with its sense of dread, its erratic plotting, its reliance on stock characters and its histrionic acting, it is perhaps more closely aligned with the 'giallo' movies of Dario Argento and Mario Bava.Whatever, it's an engrossing experience, and though it will divide players, it's a game that forces allcomers to think - to really think about what a video game is. It could turn out to be a testcase for how a new era of interactive diversions will be critically considered. The Metacritic rating is at 89%, despite the fact that this game arouses plenty of negative feeling. That's what happens when you encounter something that - even just in a small way - matters somehow.
Microsoft has slashed the UK price of the version of Office 2010 that most business users will buy, while also offering a new Starter version free with new PCs.A new version called Microsoft Office Home and Business 2010 will be priced at £239.99, where the previous Standard version of Office 2007 cost £349.99. The new package also includes the OneNote note-taking program plus Office Web Apps, so users will get more software as well as a price cut.Further cost savings will be available for those willing to do without the usual packaging and physical DVDs and buy what Microsoft calls Product Key Card versions of Office. The key card only provides a license key that can be used to activate a copy of Office 2010 that has been pre-installed on a new PC or perhaps downloaded online. This drops the price of Office Home and Business 2010 from £239.99 to £189.99. With the top-of-the-range Office Professional, the Key Card cuts the suggested price from £429.99 to £299.99.The familiar Office Home and Student version continues with, again, the addition of OneNote and Office Web Apps. 2010 prices will be £109.99 for a boxed copy and £89.99 for the keycard. Members of a family can install this version on three PCs.The cheapest version of Office 2010 will be free, but only when pre-installed on a new PC from selected PC manufacturers. Chris Adams, Office Product Manager for Microsoft UK, says Starter 2010 provides "lightweight versions of Word and Excel" that lack advanced features such as change tracking. "Starter is really replacing Microsoft Works," he says.Office Home and Student includes Word 2010, Excel 2010, PowerPoint 2010, OneNote 2010, and Office Web Apps. Office Home and Business 2010 includes all of those plus Outlook 2010. Office Professional also adds Publisher 2010, Access 2010, and "premium technical support". The Office range has been reduced to three packages, though there will also be Volume Licensing for Office 2010, to be announced, for large enterprises.UPDATE:We originally gave the price of the boxed version of Office Professional 2010 as £399.99. The correct price is £429.99. Microsoft has apologised for supplying us with the wrong figure.
