After weeks of standoff between south Asia and North America, the Indian authorities yesterday won limited access to data from BlackBerry smartphones. The 800,000 users of the devices in the country had been threatened with a blackout because of the Delhi government's growing fear that militants could use the BlackBerry's secure network to plot terror attacks without fear of being monitored.The authorities can now get access to some data. The arrangement will be evaluated for 60 days, but the prospect of a ban still looms large for Research in Motion (RIM), the Canadian company behind the smartphones.India has also opened up a front against Google and Skype. The home secretary, GK Pillai, said the internet companies were being asked to set up servers in India so that the authorities there could monitor data.India's moves underline the anxieties of emerging governments about the reach of western communications groups, and particularly the BlackBerry.The United Arab Emirates is threatening to block BlackBerry services by 11 October if it does not get access to encrypted messages. Indonesia, Saudi Arabia and Lebanon are also reviewing the future of BlackBerry services in their countries; all cite security fears over the level of encryption afforded to communication sent between devices.However, this strategy risks alienating the very global businesses such countries are trying to attract, because the employees of multinationals increasingly rely upon BlackBerrys to conduct their day-to-day work.RIM's problems – its shares have fallen to a 17-month low – lie in the way BlackBerry devices get access to the internet and email through secure centres around the world using specialist encryption.BlackBerry's Messenger instant-messaging service and its email service have different levels of security, and email security depends on the server being used. Since the BlackBerry was launched 11 years ago, it has been the mobile phone of choice for business users and governments across the world. But RIM's reputation for producing apparently impenetrable security for high-profile customers is at risk of being irreparably damaged by these new demands.Last Thursday, RIM said it would lead an industry forum on how to allow law-enforcement agencies to get access to communication networks while not encroaching on the security needs of private enterprises. That was all well and good, Indian government sources told Reuters, but the country wanted a technical solution – and quickly. "The government's position does not change," the source said. "We are hopeful [RIM] will come up with some solution."Risk that RIM will lose users' trustThe problem for RIM is that if it gains governments' trust by giving them the means to see messages, it will probably lose the trust – and perhaps the business – of users who have previously relied on its security as a way of avoiding the government's gaze.A university professor in UAE, who wishes to remain anonymous, told the Guardian: "The issue has received a lot of coverage in the UAE, but nothing compared to the conversation 'on the ground'. Since virtually every Emirati aged 17 to 40 owns a BlackBerry and uses the messenger feature constantly, this has been of great concern to them."I'd guess that around 30% accept this is for security reasons, while the rest believe it to be, at the least, intrusive. The latter believe it to be a response to a number of fairly high-profile Emiratis being attacked, derided, vilified via the messenger broadcast service. Emiratis send many broadcasts daily, and gossip runs through the community like wildfire."One of the biggest issues for the countries concerned is this messenger broadcast function. Allowing users to send one-to-many messages to everyone in their contacts book has proved an effective and galvanising way of spreading comment, and is often used as a vehicle for anti-establishment opinion – something UAE authorities are sensitive about. "The government walks a very thin line between appearing liberal and modern to the west, and traditional and Islamic at home," the professor said. "This issue cuts to the heart of the impossibility of doing both at once.The professor, who has owned a BlackBerry for more than a year, said he would have no qualms in switching to another device if RIM's concessions infringed his right to communicate without fear of government interception. "I can only presume RIM is aware of this and is treading carefully," he said. "I have faith in the company, as it clearly does little for them to give up what makes the device so valuable – its security."He added: "This has been called another public relations disaster for the UAE, and I fail to see how someone will not point this out to the rulers – and they are exceptionally concerned with remaining attractive in the eyes of western governments," he added. "This has done them no favours with the business community internationally nor with the majority of locals and expats domestically."Falling foul of authorityBeing on the wrong side of officialdom is not new to the Canadian manufacturer. Ironically, given the more recent bout of security concerns, three years ago the French government banned its officials from using BlackBerry devices, citing fears that communication could be intercepted by countries hosting the enterprise servers – namely Canada, the US and the UK. When Barack Obama took office in January 2009, the BlackBerry he had used on the campaign trail was replaced with one with extra security, approved by the US National Security Agency, which was concerned about people trying to tap it.Further east, security demands meant negotiations to take the BlackBerry to China and Russia took two years to resolve in both countries.Unlike Indian officials, who have  slipped anonymous tidbits and soundbites to the news agencies, RIM has remained tight-lipped about its negotiations. In a rare public statement addressed to customers earlier this month, the Canadian manufacturer said it co-operated with all governments to a consistent level: "Any claims that we provide, or have ever provided, something unique to the government of one country that we have not offered to the governments of all countries, are unfounded."The complexity and range of security solutions offered by RIM may be the source of the company's friction with governments, said Leif-Olof Wallin, vice-president of the IT research company Gartner. "What seems to be the big challenge is that lots of BlackBerry service and infrastructure is not very well understood by the regulatory authorities or by its users," Wallin said. "Although physically it is the same device, it can be used in lots of different scenarios."Financially, Wallin said, a ban in India would have negligible impact on RIM's global business, although the country was the second-largest mobile phone market in the world behind China. And RIM would emerge less tarnished than the countries involved.Informa Telecoms &amp; Media forecasts that there will be more than 600,000 BlackBerry sales in India this year and that India's smartphone market will have reached approximately 12m – a figure forecast to grow to 40m by the end of 2015."At the very last minute there will be an agreement in place," Wallin predicted. "Banning BlackBerry devices in the country has significant implications affecting foreign diplomats, foreign enterprise executives. It would be a major inconvenience to lots of important allies."Monitoring messages on a case-by case basisThat is not to say that the Indian or UAE governments will be given free rein to tap emails or messenger messages. "Our interpretation of RIM's public statements is that the company is willing to facilitate mobile operators to lawfully intercept some messages," said Wallin."And BlackBerry will – on a case-by-case basis – be assisting network operators to decrypt BlackBerry Messenger, we think. With email between the BlackBerry and BlackBerry Enterprise Server, RIM simply does not have the capabilities to decrypt it, and the encryption key is unique to each user."Though some of our clients are worried about what to do in case a ban is put in place, it looks like BlackBerry [manufacturer RIM] is benefiting from this as they're not caving in – they're being perceived as an honest secure company."Gail Thompson, owner of a landscaping company based in Dubai and a BlackBerry owner, said the ill thought-out warnings were not atypical of Emirates officials. "I'm expecting them to backpedal on it," Thompson said. "I'm anticipating that [the authorities will] issue a blanket mandate, then realise that it's unworkable – that's what I'm I'm hoping. I think they've had a kneejerk reaction to things."They need to take into account that business people are coming into the country and [the UAE doesn't] need another hurdle in the economy," Thompson said. "People are thinking that it's ludicrous – we all understand that our emails and calls are monitored, it's just part of our lives. I just think it's a cultural thing out there."But that thinking is not shared by all of UAE's half a million BlackBerry users.A teacher who has lived in the region for 10 years and wished to remain anonymous said she would blame RIM "for caving into demands that compromise people's privacy" if the manufacturer facilitated greater access to their emails."There is no alternative but switching to another device," she said. "If [RIM] allowed the government to intercept messages, I wouldn't be sending you this email."
Block 45Ping! Steve Jobs does his thing.  Photograph: Robert Galbraith/Reuters7.16pm:Looks like we're all wrapped up here. Let's have a run through of what Apple has announced today:• Ping, a social network for music, is built inside iTunes. Available on iTunes 10 desktop app and iOS apps, users can follow their favourite artists and other 'Pingers', view their stream and converse around music. Available immediately.• AppleTV cut in physical stature and price, to $99. Available later this month, AppleTV will no longer store your media – it will be based on renting content and streaming media from connected devices. Fox and ABC are on board from launch with more to be announced in the future; renting a HD TV show will set you back 99 cents, $4.99 for a first-run HD movie.• A whole new range of iPods, including an iPod Touch with front and rear-facing cameras and FaceTime. The rear-facing camera will be be able to record HD video content.• iOS4.1 available from next week for iPhone and iPod Touch, including a new Games Centre and many a bug fix.Thanks for joining us, keep the discussion flowing.Block 447.13pm:Martin takes to the piano for a closing rendition of Yellow. His little girl's called Apple, remember. All clicking into place now.Block 437.10pm:Jobs: "We started doing music stuff for a really simple reason: we love music. And even though we're more successful now than when we started, that hasn't changed one bit." Jobs introduces Coldplay's Chris Martin (!!!!) on stage to perform, Mr Johnson has been royally ditched by the polo-necked one.Block 427.08pm:"Strongest line-up of iPods ever," Jobs sums. "Ping is going to be really popular, very fast, because 160m people can turn on as soon as they want, starting today."Block 417.06pm:Price of AppleTV was $299 – users said they wanted something more affordable, now lowered to$99. Available later this month, pre-order today.Block 407.02pm:Jobs now giving a whistlestop tour through the new AppleTV interface.On "AirPlay", coming in November with iOS4.2: can stream content from an iOS device to an AppleTV.Block 396.58pm:Rotten Tomatoes review site also integrated with AppleTV. Can also stream music, photos and video from own computer via the AppleTV box set.Block 386.56pm:ABC and Fox on-board from launch, other broadcasters should follow, Jobs hopes. You can also stream Netflix and YouTube content through your AppleTV.Block 376.55pm:Here's the news on AppleTV content: $4.99 to rent first-run HD movies, day and date they come out on DVD. Get cheaper as time goes on. To rent HD TV shows: 99 cents.Block 366.52pm:AppleTV customers also don't want to manage storage, Jobs says, or syncing to their computer.So here's the announcement on 2ndGen AppleTV: One-fourth the size of previous iteration, palm-sized, HDMI connector, wifi and ethernet connector. All HD when available, all rentals (no purchases) – that's the new model. No storage because of rentals.Block 356.50pm:"One more thing..." time: AppleTV.Introduced four years ago, "never been a huge hit, nor has any other competitive product." But the people who have them love them, Jobs says.So what's new to AppleTV? They want HD, they want Hollywood movies and TV shows, they want to pay lower prices for content, they don't want a computer on their TV.Block 346.47pm:All activity based around artists and performance can be seen by your followers, whom you can automatically accept as followers or moderate case-by-case.Ping is also available on iPhone, iPod Touch (there's a new button in middle of iTunes app). "Social network for music, created by Apple, built into iTunes."And it's available today...Block 336.46pm:Pinghas an interface very similar to Facebook's, with the lingo of Twitter. But all is based around music artists.Block 326.44pm:"Be as private or as public as you want. The privacy is super easy to set up," says Jobs. Over 17,000 concert listings; Ping is available for sign-up to more than 160m iTunes users.Block 316.41pm:To reiterate, Apple has launched a social network for music, dubbedPing.You can "follow" updates from your favourite artists. "Social music discovery," says Jobs. "Follow and be followed" – you (seemingly) opt-in to being followed by other people and "set up a circle of friends."Block 306.39pm:Announces iTunes 10: a new logo (ditched the CD), "more elegant and simple". The iTunes store's biggest focus is discovery: what are my friends listening to? Favourite artists up to? Concerts? Email? There must be a better way.Ping – social network for music. "Facebook and Twitter for music" – social network all about music built into iTunes.Block 296.37pm:Here's theiTunes news: people downloaded 11.7bn songs from iTunes, over 4.3m TV episode, 100m movies, 35m books, and over 160m accounts with credit cards and one-click shopping.Block 286.35pm:So a new array of iPods so far. Has Jobs got anything else up his sleeve? (Currently running through the new iPod adverts).Block 276.33pm:Edit videos on the iPod Touch with iMovie app. Can make FaceTime calls between iPhone 4s and new iPod Touch. 8GB for $229, 32GB for 299, 64GB for $399. All available next week, pre-order today.Block 266.31pm:New iPod Touch is thinner, retina display (4x pixels, 326 ppi, 24bit colour, LED), Apple A4 chip (powers the iPhone), 3-axis Gyro, iOS4.1,front-facing camera with FaceTime. And arear camera with HD video recorder.Block 256.30pm:8GB iPod Nano for $149.iPod Touch news: most popular iPod, as of the past 12 months. Number one portable game player in the world. Outsells Nintendo and Sony portable game players combined, 50%+ market share in US and worldwide.Block 246.26pm:Rotatable screen on the new iPod Nano, introduced to a solitary "whoo!" from the California crowd. That went better in rehearsal, clearly.Block 236.25pm:Almost half as small, almost half as light as its fifth generation predecessor – the new iPod Nano with 24hour battery life.Block 226.23pm:Fifteen hours of music on the 5thGen Shuffle: $49, available in five different colours.On the Nano 6thGen: smaller, no clip wheel, touchscreen, "multi-touch" screen.Block 216.21pm:Bringing back the buttons to iPod Shuffle 4thGen, even smaller than 2ndGen: has voiceover and playlists, too. And a clip, importantly.Block 206.19pm:Here's the biggie:iPods.How many sold? 275m. Secret to its success: never rested on our laurels, says Jobs. "This year we've gone wild."New design for every single model of iPod. "Biggest change in iPod lineup ever".Block 196.19pm:iOS4.2comes out in November, free update for the iPad, iPhone and iPod Touch.Block 186.17pm:Jobs demo's printing: looks very smooth.Bit of a biggie: AirPlay is AirTunes, allowing you to stream audio and video over wifi devices.Block 176.15pm:Next week iOS4.1 will be available.Sneak peek at 4.2 (which will come later this year for iPad). Multitasking, folders, games centre, wireless printing, "AirPlay".Block 166.14pm:New game out later this year from Epic Games. Invites on stage the president, Mike Capps to introduce.MC: codename for this new game is Project Sword, social integration. "Project Sword is a gorgeous action packed RPG adventure. Everything you see is in realtime."Block 156.09pm:Games centre new and built in withiOS 4.1: APIs for developers. "All about multiplayer games," challenge friends, compare scores, discover new games. Apple moves into mobile social gaming.Block 146.08pm:250,000 apps on App Store, 25,000 iPad apps.First big(ish) announcement:iOS 4.1to include: Proximity sensor bugs fix, bluetooth bugs fix. Adds high dynamic range photos, HD video upload over wifi, TV show rentals and a game centre.Block 136.06pm:New iOS activations per day: 230,000 per day (new activations). If we counted upgrades (hints at Android) that would be a lot higher.Over 6.5bn apps in App Store. 200 apps downloaded every second.Block 126.05pm:How many iOS devices shipped? 120m since launch.Block 116.05pm:iOS news: "a revolution in touch and apps," says Jobs.Block 106.04pm:Over a million people are visiting in some stores around the world.Block 96.04pm:Really cool stuff to show us, says Jobs. Update on new retail stores first off: Paris, Shanghai and London.London store update: "beautiful, restored old building. Lot of restoration required." Not so much a retail update then, Steve.Covent Garden was the 300th Apple store in the world, in 10 countries. Soon to open first store in Spain.Block 86.00pm:Jack Johnson fades to mute and we begin. Steve Jobs enters stage right to whoops and hollers.Block 75.58pm:"Switch your phones to silent, please," asks a mystery voice from behind the black curtain. On the projector comes the scene from California, lots of happy-looking folk sharing jokes and listening to Jack Johnson.Block 65.54pm:99-cent rentals of movies through iTunes? According to "people familiar with the matter"cited by Wall Street Journal. Fox and ABC are said to be the companies on board:"Some of these people said Fox agreed to participate in 99-cent rentals for a short period of time, and agreed to the lower-cost price only for broadcast shows it both produces and airs, such as "Glee," "Bones" and "Lie to Me." The Apple proposal won't affect cable shows such as FX's "Justified," or Fox network shows, including "American Idol," for which Fox doesn't control the digital rights."According to the people familiar with the matter, part of the calculus for Fox is that News Corp. wants Apple's help with other digital projects, including the iPad version of The Wall Street Journal and a digital news offering known inside News Corp. as the "Daily Planet," the name of the fictional paper in Superman comics."Five minutes to go...Block 55.49pm:Would you believe it? Sony has moved to trump the Cupertino company's announcement(s) from its temporary hovel at Berlin's IFA fair.Sony will offer a cloud-based media streaming service on Playstation 3s, Bravia TVs, Blu-Ray players and Sony's personal computers. Initially it will stream movies, with music to be added by the end of this year,reports the BBC.Any more before Apple takes the stage in 10 minutes?(In other news: it's filling up here at the UK press screening in Barbican. Not as many MacBooks as you might expect. Friendly-looking, yellow-shirted staffers saunter round with purple placards, directing media and guests to their seats. Free water and free wifi await. How's it looking from the comfort of home?)Block 45.40pm:To cover all bases, The Inquirer ishedging its betson Apple announcing an update to AppleTV (not before time, I hear you grumble):"[...] Amazon has made an announcement that would appear to be a spoiler for Jobs' dreams. It will be offering a subscription service that will deliver TV shows and movies over the Internet, which sounds jolly similar to the rumours and speculations we've been hearing about Apple's ITV plans."The Internet retailer has pitched a web-based subscription service to several major media companies, including NBC Universal, Time Warner, News Corp and Viacom. Amazon's video content subscription push is a challenge to rivals such as Netflix, Google's Youtube, and if Jobs announces it, Apple."Block 35.36pm:With 20ish minutes until kick off (6pm UK time), speculation is mounting.The Financial Timescites sources inside the media industrywhen it says Apple will increase the amount of time customers can sample singles in the iTunes store from 30 seconds to 90 seconds. Users will also be able to make purchases direct from web pages, rather than opening the iTunes application, the FT predicts.Block 2Block 1Hello and welcome.Web stream or no web stream, sit back and enjoy our minute-by-minute coverage live from (the UK screening of) Apple's California press conference.Speculation about what Apple could announce ramped up a gear last night, with the company announcing it will *stream* the announcements online – but only to devices running its own operating systems. Is "social streaming" now almost certain to be visited on iTunes?Here'sour own Charles Arthur:"This looks very likely, given Apple's $85m purchase last year of Lala.com, which it closed in May. Why purchase it to close it? Lala would stream music to users' PCs, for a price. And for years people have been talking about the likelihood of iPods getting streaming, or some sort of Napster-style subscription service. But while selling iPods was a good business, subscriptions weren't (witnessed by the failure of so many companies that tried to offer it)."It's only now, as those other streaming services have started to make it into a viable business - one enabled by apps on phones and computers - that Apple seems interested. After all, at present the money paid to those services goes to Spotify or we7; why, you can see the Apple execs reasoning, shouldn't Apple get a slice?"Apple could also announce a price cut to AppleTV – Steve Jobs's "hobby" – which has underwhelmed the market since launch.The Financial Timespredictsan update to iTunes will allow 90-second streaming of singles in the iTunes store, as opposed to the 30-second clips it currently allows.The invite to Apple's September press conference. Music, perhaps?Gizmodopontificatesabout the possible launch of an iPod Touch with front-facing and rear-facing cameras, saying such a device would be a "ninja assassin squad against a whole range of other middling gadgets".Let the predictions begin. Leave yours in the comments below...
With Arkham Asylum seeming revitalising all things Batman, the arrival of The Brave and The Bold will likely cause a flutter of interest fromfans.Take a look the exclusive trailer we have here and see what youthink. Based on the TV show of the same name, Batman: The Brave and The Bold is a 2D side-scrolling beat-em-up/adventure for Wii and DS. To me it looks like it would make a decent download game for XBLA and PSN too – fingers crossed, eh?The game is released on 24 September and allows player to teamBatman up with allies Green Lantern and, of course, Robin.  Catwomanis just one of many villains in the game. Fans of the show will likelylap this one up then but you could see it appealing to dads with fondmemories of the original TV show.Me? I'm holding out for Arkham 2 but can see myself spending some time with Brave and Bold on DS at least. Assuming I can get the stupidly addictive DS game Puzzle Quest 2 finished first, of course.
It keeps crashing on me, but I've had enough of a blast to be inspired - it's the heavenly Arcade Fire video built in collaboration with Google and directorChris Milk.The Wilderness Downtowncombines Arcade Fire's We Used To Wait with some beautiful animation and footage - courtesy of Street View - of your childhood home - made all the more poignant for me because it was bulldozed a few years ago.Thomas Gayno from Google's Creative Labs decsribed it on theChrome Blog: "It features a mash-up of Google Maps and Google Street View with HTML5 canvas, HTML5 audio and video, an interactive drawing tool, and choreographed windows that dance around the screen. These modern web technologies have helped us craft an experience that is personalised and unique for each viewer, as you virtually run through the streets where you grew up."TheChrome Experimentsblog explains each technique, including the flock of birds that respond to the music and mouse movemens, created with theHTML5Canvas 3D engine, film clips played in windows at custom sizes, thanks to HTML5, and various colour correction, drawing and animation techniques.I've watched thousands of videos thanks to the curse of the viral video chart and nothing has come close to this for originality, imagination and for that inspired piece of personalised storytelling.There's plenty more inspiration on the Chrome Experiments blog;Bomomois pretty slick, andCanopyis hypnotic.
Anyone familiar with Edgar Wright's oeuvre (and especially Spaced) can't have failed to notice the director of Scott Pilgrim vs The World is a major-league video game obsessive, and the film itself rams that point home.Happily, this is not the usual game-as-merchandising tat – indeed, it takes an approach that should be made compulsory for all games publishers looking to cash in on Hollywood's enduring mass appeal. Instead of seeking to extract more cash from you than it would take to see the film, Scott Pilgrim vs The World joins the burgeoning ranks of the retro homages found on the Xbox Live arcade and PlayStation Network, and completely nails the ethos of those download services.Its mission alone deserves applause – to introduce a young, Twitter-fed audience to the joys of the 8-bit arcade era. Thus, it looks like Paper Boy and plays like Double Dragon (even supporting co-operative play by up to four people). In keeping with that era, its gameplay is gloriously unforgiving, eschewing checkpoints in favour of three lives which must be sustained for the duration of each of the seven levels, corresponding to Scott's inamorata Ramona's ex-boyfriends. Each level is long, relentless and utterly devoid of breathing space. Which gives you a commensurate sense of satisfaction when you progress.The gameplay couldn't be simpler, consisting of classic side-scrolling beat-em-up action in which Scott takes on hordes of aggressive Toronto locals. He can pick up objects strewn around the streets, such as baseball bats, bottles and even snowballs, to use as weapons, punch, kick, jump and counter. At first, it seems laughably simple, but subtleties soon manifest themselves. As Scott levels up, he acquires special moves, such as shoulder-charges and low kicks. He can enter certain shops on the streets on which the action takes place, in order to replenish health and preserve life for the ex-boyfriend boss-battle at the end of each level. And you soon learn how to time attacks so they chain, letting you deal efficiently with attackers without sustaining damage. Even when you fall victim to the occasional pile-on, some judicious button-bashing under the pile of bodies can send the whole gaggle of bullies reeling.Everyone you defeat yields coins, and there are surreal interludes in which you enter primary coloured parallel paths littered with references to games like Super Mario Bros, and in which you can shatter flying piggy-banks to stock up further on loose change – it is entirely appropriate that a game-of-a-film which, for once, represents an attractive purchase should feature flying pigs. And the boss-battles are tours de force, with each ex (often with the help of assistants) unleashing extravagant powers which must be countered using considerable tactical nous and precision. Edgar Wright would (and surely does) approve of this, and it will appeal equally to tweens and their forty-something dads on nostalgia trips back to their mis-spent youths.
Google has tried to whet the appetite of potential advertisers with a lengthy post setting the scene for the future of display advertising – traditionally an area in which Yahoo has been much more dominant.In an interesting insight into Google's thinking in this area, director of product managementJonathan Bellackexplains five principles around which new products are developed.Making products more efficient: Effectively connecting buyers and sellers through better technology, and interactive advertising on TVs is a big target here.Total revenue management: Technology will be able to serve and track ad revenues across directly and indirectly sold ad space, and that can prioritise serving ads in a spot that will get the best response for the best rate.Insight and control: More data means more control, whether in metrics reports, targeting or forecasting.Betting on openness: Google Maps and Android were developed by opening code up to the developer community; there are similar benefits for the advertising business by opening the API behind DoubleClick for Publishers which means developers can build tools like advertising apps.Everything is going to be 'display': Display ads will be everywhere from newspapers and magazines to video and books."What we call 'display' today will just be 'advertising' - a single platform that can coordinate an advertiser's campaign across streaming audio ads in car stereos, interactive mobile experiences on smartphones, and HD video ads on set-top boxes," said Bellack. "Imagine if that single platform could optimise the campaign, automatically delivering the best-performing ads, best returns and best mix, across all those platforms. That's the future we envisage."Slightly charitable in tone, Bellack says that improving display advertising technology could improve web publishers' revenues "by orders of magnitude"."We shouldn't be asking how publishers can eke another 5% or 10% out of display advertising in the next few years. We should be looking at how the industry can double or triple in size."Google has to be seen to be aggressively competing for the 'mayorship' of display advertising, as this post indicates. Whether a short-term doubling or even tripling of display advertising is likely is another issue; traditional publishers will be convinved that even if that does happen, Google will be the biggest winner.Photo byKateMonkeyon Flickr.Some rights reserved
Stealing Apple's thunder is both a challenge and a delight for its rivals, and that's exactly whatSonyis reportedly trying to do today ahead of the anticipated new iPod and Apple TV announcement tonight.Sony is planning to launch a subscription-based music and video service at the IFA tech show in Berlin today - the biggest consumer technology show in Europe.Photo bypusgumson Flickr.Some rights reservedTheFTreports that the service would allow users to download music and video to their PS3 and PSP consoles (which are already internet-connected for game and film downloads on PlayStation Network) and then share it between Sony devices including Vaio computers, Walkman music players, Blu-ray players and Sony Ericsson mobile phones.This launch hasn't exactly come out of the blue. Sony paid $260m (£169m) for the file identification technology Gracenote in 2008 and started building the subscription service in 2009, when Sony president Howard Stringer stated that 90% of Sony products would be internet connected and connect to each other by 2011.In February Stringer described PlayStation Network as Sony's "not-so-secret weapon", claiming it had 40 million registered users worldwide, reportedEurogamer. The Gracenote acquisition has been used to unify content offerings between various sprawling Sony divisions, and produced PlayStation Network.He told the Mobile World Congress that Europe is a particularly strong market for PSN, as proved by its launch in November last year in the UK, France, Germany and Spain. "In its first five days alone, despite the struggling European economy, revenue from those four countries was 40% of the worldwide revenues for PSN's video delivery service – a testament to how critical the European market will continue to be."The Network expansion followslast month's launchof a new 320GB and 160GB PS3, replacing the 250GB amd 120GB models, plus the annnouncement in May that Sony would be partnering withinternet cinema service Mubifor PS3 users from October.
Ok, it may not help Xbox 360 owners who have already suffered thered ring of deathbut the attempt tocreate community based console repair manualshas to be applauded.  iFixit, who originally published repair guides for Apple hardware, have now gone for the consoles. Or as they say on the site:The game console industry is hostile to consumers: goliath manufacturers have shipped hundreds of millions of units to consumers with no information on how to maintain or repair them. Console owners are left with few options when their warranty expires, causing many to throw away broken units.  That changes now. We are releasing a free, open source, community-authored repair manual for every major game console.A noble aim then and you can't knock the detail here. If you have ever wanted to install anew Playstation 3 heat sinkthen this site is for you. There are also in-depth repair guides for consoles from theDreamcastto thePSP.Perhaps more interesting for the casual reader is the "teardown" of some retro consoles. The garishMagnavox Odysseyfor example.The question remains though. Are you interested - and skilled - enough to want to take your faulty console to bits? Or is that brand new replacement just too tempting?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
While everyone has been focussing on Apple, RIM and Android phones, it's been easy to overlook the company that has a lot at stake in the mobile market. (Chorus: Nokia!) No, not Nokia, which is still selling lots of phones (though we'll come to quite what's going on with Nokia in the near future).No, we meant Microsoft. Remember them? And Windows Phone 7? It's now moving towards the launch stage - which means advertising budgets, handset manufacturers, carriers, all having to be brought into line.Windows Phone 7: who's making the hardware and what will its name be?ManufacturerDevice NameCarrierScreen sizeCameraForm FactorStorageStatusDellLightning?4.1"5mpPortrait slider8gbRumorHTCMondrianAT&T;???Slate, no keyboard??RumorHTCMozart???Slate?ConfirmedHTCSparkWorld phone?3.7"???ConfirmedHTCT8788AT&T;Sliding speakerConfirmedSamsungTaylorN/A3.7"?Slate?Dev-onlySamsungCetusAT&T;4" AMOLED5mp??ConfirmedLGPantherAT&T;3.5"5mpSlider?Dev device, ConfirmedLGPacificAT&T;SliderConfirmedLGOptimus 7SlateConfirmedsource: windowsphone7central.comAs the table (fromWindows Phone 7 Central) shows [apologies for the overspill], the early players in this are the companies that have previously been Microsoft's mobile BFFs. Though Dell has made very little impact in the smartphone market, HTC was (is?) the company which bought the most Windows Mobile licences, while Samsung and LG have been big WM licencees too. Notably absent from the list (so far) are HP, Sony Ericsson and Toshiba, who were among those mooted by Microsoft in February.)But now let's discuss the price. AtTechcrunch Kim Cutler suggeststhe price of launching Windows Phone - in terms of marketing costs, payments to developers and handset makers - will be more than half a billion dollars. She quotes Jonathan Goldberg, a telecomms analyst at Deutsche Bank, who reckons Microsoft will spend $400m just on marketing the launch.She has an interesting quote from him:"This is make-or-break for them. They need to do whatever it takes to stay in the game," says Goldberg. "It's still wide open. They don't have to take share from Android or Apple, so long as they can attract enough consumers switching from feature phones."The idea that in an expanding market it's always OK just to take a niche is one that you'll hear repeatedly from companies that are trying to catch up. (Of course Microsoft's not saying this. But it's the analysis being offered.) The reality though is that that is never the way to make sufficient impact on the market; it's expensive and you'll stay in a niche. Going back some time, I recall Ed Colligan, then chief executive of Handspring, saying it about the PDA market. Handspring couldn't make any headway, though, and got bought by Palm.Or it could be bigger:"On a visit earlier this month to the company's headquarters in Redmond, Goldberg says company executives told him that Microsoft, along with its carrier and manufacturing partners, would likely spend "billions" of dollars in the first year for marketing and development. Another source familiar with Microsoft's manufacturer and carrier agreements says the company will spend $1 billion on the launch, half on marketing and half on other development costs."Eee-yikes. Billions of dollars so that you can catch up to get back to the place where you used to be, but aren't because you competely took your eye off the mobile ball? For any company other than Microsoft, that would be scary. For Microsoft though, that's just a cost of doing business, at least in the mobile market.Mary Jo Foley meanwhilethinks that the cost is easily going to be north of a billion dollars:"Think this through: Microsoft easily spent over a billion dollars over three years to develop and launch the now-defunct Kin phones, which were a tiny subset of its Windows Phone base. Microsoft spentan estimated $500 million to buy Danger; at least two to three years worth of salaries for the Pink team; however much it cost them to survey thetens of thousands of potential Kin customers/testers via "Project Muse"; and$240 million to write off the failed Kins."Windows Phone 7 is of far more importance to Microsoft than the Kin phones were. And Microsoft has been working on its Windows Mobile 6.x successor for two-plus years so far. We've heard from the Softies that they've reassigned many of their "best and brightest" to develop the Windows Phone 7 operating system, reference designs, user interface and developer ecosystem. So that's two-plus years of salaries for thousands of Softies."She concludes:"I'd say it's safe to say we're easily at or over $1 billion at this point. Microsoft made $62.5 billion in fiscal 2010. One of the company's biggest black eyes at this point is its lack of a credible and coherent answer to the iPhone and Android.  A billion dollars would be a small price to pay to achieve this. Do you agree?"Actually, I don't agree that Microsoft "made" $62.5bn in fiscal 2010; those were its revenues. Its profits for FY2010 were $24bn. And it's sitting on acash pile of $35bn. So it's really not going to notice the odd billion going missing, especially in the market that so many think is so important for mobiles - smartphones.Yes, you could certainly argue that all the momentum is with Android at the moment, the mobile OS platform which is selling more phones than Apple, and might soon overtake RIM. You could argue that that's because the Android code is open-source, and hence costs "nothing" to use in a mobile handset.Butover at Business Insider, there's a Microsoftie who has emailed them (anonymously) to suggest that the cost of incorporating Android into handsets is actually much greater than "free". As he puts it:&bull; Lawsuits over disputed Android IP have been costly for Android OEMs. (See Apple/HTC, as just one example.) Microsoft indemnifies OEMs who license Windows Phone 7 against IP issues with the product. That is, legal disputes over the IP in Windows Phone 7 directed at OEMs will be handled by Microsoft. This goes a long way toward controlling legal costs at the OEM level.&bull; Android's laissez faire hardware landscape is a fragmented mess for device drivers. (For background, just like PCs, mobile devices need drivers for their various components—screen, GPS, WiFi, Bluetooth, 3G radio, accelerometer, etc.) Android OEMs have to put engineering resources into developing these drivers to get their devices working. The Windows Phone 7 "chassis strategy" allows devices to be created faster, saving significant engineering cost. It's essentially plug and play, with device drivers authored by Microsoft.&bull; [At Microsoft] We've seen the delays due to Android OEMs having to sink engineering resources into each and every Android update. Some Android OEMs skip updates or stop updating their less popular devices. Because of the unique update architecture, Windows Phone 7 OEMs don't need to roll their own updates based on the stock build. Costs are reduced significantly.&bull; Android OEMs need to pay for licenses for many must-have features that are standard in Windows Phone 7. For example, software to edit Office documents, audio/video codecs (see some costs here), or improved location services (for this, Moto licenses from Skyhook, just as Apple once did). Of course, all of these license fees add up.As Cutler points out, "Even at $10 per device, 100 million Windows 7 phones will have to ship before it recoups $1 billion in marketing and engineering subsidies, not counting revenues from search advertising or its cut of app sales)."
A leak in the office. Photo byindi.caon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamDarpa's Star Hacker Looks to WikiLeak-Proof the Pentagon &gt;&gt; Wired.com"Tomorrow's WikiLeakers may have to be sneakier than just dumping military docs onto a Lady Gaga disc. The futurists at Darpa are working on a project that would make it harder for troops to funnel classified material to WikiLeaks — or to foreign governments. And that means if you work for the military, get ready to have your web, email and other network usage monitored even more than it is now."Twig - The flexible, fast, and secure template language for PHP &gt;&gt; Twig ProjectLooks interesting for web designers: "When it comes to template languages in PHP, many people will tell you that PHP itself is a template language. But even if PHP started its life as a template language, it did not evolve like one in the recent years. As a matter of fact, it doesn't support many features modern template languages should have nowadays.." Feedback welcomed.#haml &gt;&gt; HamiA rival to Twig (see above). Actually, already established, and widely used, it seems - it has its own Wikipedia page). Web devs, where do you stand?Revoke access given to 'Twitternation' &gt;&gt; pezholio"The dumbness of the system (as well as the fact that it uses an obscure url shortening service) makes me think that its been put together for nefarious purposes (spreading spam and so on), so if you've granted access to this 'application', it would probably be a good idea torevoke access."Video: Flash on Android Is Shockingly Bad &gt;&gt; Newteevee.com"...the Nexus One sports a Qualcomm Snapdragon 1Ghz processor, so it should have plenty of horsepower for loading video on the device. So with that in mind, how did Flash video actually perform on the Nexus One? Shockingly bad."Note though that other people say they were able to watch the Flash video of the "shockingly bad" performance fine... on their Nexus One running Android 2.2. So now we look at our next link...Why the Apple crowd's completely wrong about Flash &gt;&gt; Computerworld Blogs"With Flash Player properly configured on a smartphone, you opt to load Flash content only when you want it. It's called "on-demand" processing, and it makes most of the arguments against Flash support invalid. Some Android browsers have the "on-demand" option enabled by default; with others, you can select it by looking for the plug-in settings within the browser's menu. With on-demand processing enabled, you see a small icon anytime Flash material is available. If you want to activate it, you tap it. If you don't, it never loads or affects your browsing experience in any way."Quite a lot of assumptions packed into that paragraph, of course: properly configured; some menus; and so on. Also, a link to Steve Jobs's "letter" about Flash would have been useful: another part of Jobs's argument is about stability and security.Q: Is ViewSonic's 7-Inch ViewPad a Phone or Android Tablet? A: Both! &gt;&gt; GizmodoQ: does it have exactly the same specs as the forthcoming Samsung Galaxy Tab? A: Yes! Q: Does that suggest that ViewSonic has some sort of arrangement with Samsung, or that someone's going to get hurt when they both go on sale? A: You decide!Samsung Claims 3D Victory—Has 88% of US 3D TV Sales &gt;&gt; Gizmodo"Despite worrying rumblings that we're already seeing the latest 3D trend explode amid consumer apathy for the current things-poking-out-of-the-screen gimmick, Samsung is remaining upbeat—thanks to taking an 88% share of recent US sales of 3D TVs"'This is how I feel about buying apps' &gt;&gt; The OatmealOne suspects he isn't alone in this behaviour.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Archos's 2.8inch touchscreen tablet device, RRP: £99. A game changer for the iPod Touch?Archos is to release five loosely-defined internet tablet devices, all running Google's Android OS – including one with a 2.8 inch touchscreen.Yes, you read it right. Archos is adding to its portfolio of internet tablet devices with a handful of technology's hottest products, running the operating system du jour: Android 2.2 Froyo.But note: none of these devices will have access to the Android App Market. Instead they'll run (and access) Archos's own AppsLib store.Nigh on one year ago, the European manufacturer released its Archos 5 tablet device; this September, we have the Archos 28, Archos 32, Archos 43, Archos 70 and Archos 101. (Memo to Archos: Must try harder with product branding).Perhaps the most notable of this quintet is theArchos 28. Weighing in at 68g and with a 2.8 inch touchscreen, and 3D graphic accelerator, the 28's recommended retail price is £99 for the 4GB model and £109 for the 8GB. Android 2.2's Flash support enables browser playback, though battery life for browsing is relatively short at six hours.The 28's 320x240px screen will also playback most video formats, as well as audio. Going on sale later this month, the 28 will look to undercut other smartmedia devices such as Apple's iPod Touch (which has athe same number of pixels480x320px resolution [ta,redcollar], but on a 3.5" screen, and starts at £150-odd for the 8GB model) – though it remains to be seen what Apple will bring out of its music locker later today. (And on that subject: stay with us for a liveblog from the UK screening of the press conference).Next up the scale is theArchos 32; much like the 28 but with a larger, better quality touchscreen (3.2 inch at 400x240px), slightly larger dimensions, Bluetooth connectivity and a VGA video camcorder. The 32 has a recommended retail price of £129 for an 8GB model (the only model on offer). Like the Archos 5 before it, the 28 and the 32 are primarily media-playing devices, internet browsing and task completion being supplementary features.Skipping the Archos 43, we turn to the 70 and the 101 – tablet devices as we have come to know them. (And both available from October, unlike the previous three which will retail from this month).TheArchos 70– with its 7inch touchscreen – bears a resemblance to Samsung's forthcoming Galaxy Tab, albeit with a much greater capacity for memory, restricted Android OS and no rear-facing camera. There will be two models of the 70: a standard 8GB (£229) and one with a mammoth 250GB hard drive (£269) for all of your media needs.Then there's theArchant 101. Complete with netbook-worthy 10.1inch touchscreen, the 101 is thinner and lighter than the Apple iPad. The 101 comes with a front-facing VGA camera and built-in leg stand, as well as HDMI output and HD video playback. Two models of the 101 will be available, both with expandable capacity for memory with a microSD card: the 8GB (£269) and the 16GB (£299).So, what do you make of them then? Will Samsung be hastily reconvening meetings on pricing, given the Galaxy Tab's launch tomorrow?
In many ways, the resounding success of Batman: Arkham Asylum can be seen as both a blessing and a curse for superhero games.On the one hand, the 2009 Bafta Best Game winner proved that it is possible to make a comic-based release that pleases both hardcore fans and regular gamers.On the other, you'd suspect that for the next couple of years every release will be judged against this high benchmark  - and you have to assume most will suffer in comparison.Marvel's wisecracking web-slinger looks set to be the first to step into the breach in Spider-man: Shattered Dimensions.Split across four different worlds with four unique playing styles, developers Beenonix will be hoping that the variety on offer and the different tone of the character provides a colourful alternative to the moody and atmospheric world of Arkham Asylum.I got my hands on a couple of the worlds at a preview event in London a few weeks back, and things were looking encouraging.Worlds apartIf you can forgive the hokey plot tying things together - written by genuine Spidey-writer Dan Slott - the switch in gameplay modes seems to be a feature that works well.First up is 'Amazing', which offers pretty standard platforming/beat-em-up fare that you'd expect from a comic-book release.Despite the fact that, like previous games, the developers have taken a few liberties with Peter Parker's abilities (turning his web into a giant hammer for example), they've done an excellent job capturing the 'feel' of the character - agile and nimble but packing quite a punch nevertheless.Taking out swaths of grunts with a variety of combos and special web-abilities is brainless but satisfying fun - and has a more arcade-like feel than Arkham's more considered offering.'Ultimate' offers a similar experience - we're told with a younger Spidey but I'm not too sure how this is relevant - but seems a more sci-fi flavoured affair.Here you're decked out in the symbiote costume worn by Peter Parker in the comics in the late eighties, and fighting zombie soldiers and mechanised robots on what seems to be an alien planet.A first-person hand-to-hand combat mode seemed to be this world's calling card, which looked interesting if a strange inclusion in a Spider-man game.Spider-man 2099: only 89 years until we can laugh at how unrealistic it is. Photograph: ActivisionIn a similar vein, '2099' is a futuristic take on the Spider-man world and looked to be a dazzling, colourful affair. A flying sequence where you'd have to guide a diving Spider-man headfirst down mile-long tunnels (think handless Luke in Empire Strikes Back) adds some variety to the jumping and punching.'Noir', meanwhile, offers a change of pace with an unashamedly Arkham-influenced stealth offering, Spider-man stringing up unsuspecting gun-toting henchmen and avoiding detection while rescuing hostages.It's this world that's garnered the most attention so far and, from what I played of it, stealth-Spider-man is only a mixed success.A character that can zip away on a webline at any time, and that can climb any surface doesn't really fit in this setting. It was difficult to know whether you would cling to the surfaces you jumped towards, or how far you would swing away when you used your webs to escape (no gargoyles here).The level design and enemy AI were rather poor as well. It's too early to make any definitive judgements, though.FanbaseAside from the gameplay, Spider-man has a vociferous fanbase and authenticity to the franchise will be key in all four sections.Beenonix certainly seem to have made the most of the license - even going as far as employing voice talent that have previously worked on Spider-man cartoons.A large selection of villains from the vast Marvel universe have been used, and there's plenty of fanboy-pleasing collectables and easter eggs to find along the way.Many will bemoan the decision to head away from the open-world territory previous Spider-man games have ventured towards - and rightly so. The best thing about getting to play as Spider-man should be the webswinging, and closed stages feel like making a Superman game where you can't fly.Still, until a Red Web Redemption comes out, Shattered Dimensions looks to be a bright and diverting enough way for Spider-fans to while away a few hours. For everyone else, hey, you need something to tide you over until Arkham City, right?•Spider-man: Shattered Dimensions will be released on 10 September
One of the world's largest casual gaming companies today unveiled HTML5 versions of 47 of its games websites, proclaiming that it will be the new standard for gaming devices within three years.SPIL Gameshas thrown its considerable weight behind HTML5 and the upward trend in casual gaming, with users now able to play its games on mobile browsers supporting HTML5 (ruling out devices running Android pre-2.0).Previously, mobile visitors would have been taken to the full browser window displayed in Flash – but that would be slow to render with most phone browsers, and incompatible with Apple devices.But close to a million mobile users try accessing a SPIL gaming website every month, a company spokesman tells us. More than half (52%) of these visits are from Apple devices, 15% from Android, 15% from Symbian (ie Nokia and/or Sony Ericcson) and 6% from BlackBerry devices.The company, which currently has more than 4,000 games in its portfolio, is offering developers prizes totalling up to $50,000 (£41,000) for the best HTML5 game, encouraging the potential it says is "hampered by different protocols, operating systems, and platform-approval processes within the mobile world".An aside: Nick Jones, Gartner analyst, hasan interesting takeon that very subject:"Native platforms will certainly become less important relative to the web platform because HTML5 supports a wider range of applications than the last-generation web."But native platforms can stay ahead by evolving faster than HTML5, and in different directions to HTML5, it's not hard to outrun a snail driven by a committee. So although HTML5 will be important the native platform will retain a big edge if you want to develop clever apps. And the native platform owners want it to stay that way.""Openness is at the core of everything we do," says Peter Driesson, chief executive of the Netherlands-based company."We are aware that HTML5 is still at an early stage, but already developers can use it to make great games, and we are confident that the industry will quickly embrace it. Within three years we expect HTML5 to be the standard in gaming devices."Analysts at Forrester predict the Western European mobile gaming market to grow from €746m (£616m) at the end of 2010 to €1.46bn (£1.2bn) by the end of 2015, due to the growth in paying mobile gamers (31 million to 45 million over the same time frame, Forrester predicts) and a growth in smarphone adoption.Mark Watson, chief executive of mobile internet specialists Volantis, suggested that the significance of SPIL's move should not be underestimated."With one of the largest providers of mobile video – YouTube – and now one of the largest providers of mobile gaming on board, the endorsements for HTML5 are rolling in," says Watson. "Judging the right moment to move with these trends is always difficult, but our own consumer research, which found that gaming is going to be one of the top drivers of mobile internet take-up in the next 24 months, suggests that SPIL are taking the initiative at the right time."Crucially, SPIL's decision to launch HTML5 versions of their sites shows that the barriers to running mobile games through mobile browsers which existed in the past are now well and truly broken. It is also becoming clear that Flash is only a stop-gap technology when it comes to online gaming – the adoption of HTML5 over Flash is part of a larger developer movement away from proprietary towards open technology."• Another noteworthy HTML5 development: Ephemeral rockers Arcade Fire haveteamed up with Google Chrometo put together a personalised music video. Nice.
Digital music download and 'performance' revenues v total number of iPods + iPhones sold, by year. Sources: IFPI, Apple financialFirst, very quickly, let's revisit what's going on with iPods, iPhones, and digital revenues.As I pointed out in this article, the music business isn't seeing the rapid takeoff of digital download sales that it might have hoped for. The fact is that iPod sales (that is, devices Apple classes as "iPods", which includes the iPod Touch but excludes the iPhone and iPad) are falling both year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter. And the iTunes Store is the biggest single retailer of music in the US. (That doesn't mean it's the majority, but it has a significant influence.)Plus, the numbers show that digital download sales follow the sales of iPods + iPhone rather closely. On this basis, people have therefore been saying "so what's the problem? iPod sales might slow down, but iPhone sales are going great! iPhone play music too! So no problem!"iPods+iPhone, digital music sales by yearyearphysical sales $bndigital sales $bntotal iPods + iPhones soldperformance rights $bnnumber of iPods soldnumber of iPhones sold199725.60000199826.80000199926.90000200026.50000200126.1001250200224.300.44700200322.500.4145102004220.50.482630200520.51.20.5319600200618.52.20.6464320200716.130.6526851389200813.73.90.75443415273200911.94.30.852410250902010sources: IFPI, Apple financial resultsSales of iPods/iPhones are in thousands; revenues for music business in $ billions. Sources: IFPI, Apple financialTwo problems actually. One is about the "installed base" of iPods. The other is about the alternative ways in which people can get music. Either or both point to problems for the industry. (Here's the table of data, so you can see why. Sales figures for the iPod/iPhone are given in thousands; revenues for the music business in billions of dollars.)First: installed base. Steve Jobs said in a presentation recently that 50% of iPod buyers are new to them. Obviously, that means that 50% are replacements in some way. That means the installed base of functioning iPods is bigger than just the headline per-quarter sales figures. Yet it doesn't matter what sort of replacement cycle you choose for iPods + iPhones (two years in which half of the old ones get thrown away, for example), you still find that the digital downloads follows iPod sales very closely... but tails off latterly."Pah!" some people say. "iTunes isn't the download business. You're ignoring all the services such as Comes With Music and Amazon and all the other ways in which people can download music."Perhaps. But if that's the case, then things are evenworsefor the music business, because it's got all these new ways of getting revenues, but itstillisn't growing faster than the total number of iPods + iPhones out there. And if iPod sales slow (given that iPods, optimised for playing music, despite some incursions into video, were for some years the ideal repository for downloaded tracks) then the music industry has to find other outlets.Yes, "performance" revenues (from streaming services such as we7, Pandora and Spotify) are growing rather well, up to $800m worldwide last year. They don't - indeed can't - work with iPods, except for "iOS" devices such as the iPod Touch. Happily for those services, that's where the growth is for Apple - selling iOS devices, including the iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch.And so we come to the rumours about what's coming up tomorrow. John Gruber of Daring Fireball isquite surethe iPod Touch is in for a major revision:"I expect a new iPhone 4-caliber iPod Touch (retina display, dual FaceTime-ready cameras), new iTunes TV show rentals, and a new iOS-based Apple TV. The wildcard is whether there's going to be an App Store for the Apple TV."Readers are asking about iOS 4.1. I expect that, too, along with the official debut of Game Center, which is part of 4.1 and will help reinforce the image of the iPod Touch as a mobile gaming device (and the App Store as a gaming platform) going into the holidays. Look for a bunch of Game Center demos during the event."Other suggestions we've seen all over the place:• "Classic" iPods (shuffle, nano, "Classic")won't receive any sort of updateat all. Personallydon't thinkthat's likely - they'd get a tweak on storage or price, surely.•New "iPod Touch mini"with a 3" screen on the way. Again,can't see that that's likely: imagine trying to type anything on it. An iPod with a touch-only interface is just about conceivable if you had loads of playlists already set up, but it would be no good at all for apps. Can just about imagine an iPod nano with a touch interface, but it's hard to think it would be much of an improvement on the scroll wheel.•"Social streaming" coming to iTunes. Thislooks very likely, given Apple's $85m purchase last year of Lala.com, which it closed in May. Why purchase it to close it? Lala would stream music to users' PCs, for a price. And for years people have been talking about the likelihood of iPods getting streaming, or some sort of Napster-style subscription service. But while selling iPods was a good business, subscriptions weren't (witnessed by the failure of so many companies that tried to offer it). It's only now, as those other streaming services have started to make it into a viable business - one enabled by apps on phones and computers - that Apple seems interested. After all, at present the money paid to those services goes to Spotify or we7; why, you can see the Apple execs reasoning, shouldn't Apple get a slice?•Revised AppleTV running iOS. This isquite likelybecause Apple is now going to have to think about how it competes with Google TV and similar "app"-based models for getting TV to you. The existing AppleTV is a bit pointless, so it would make sense to have an in-between device. Here's the problem, though: iOS is a touch-based OS. How do you set up a remote so that you can control a screen that was designed for touch? That is the only fly in the soothing ointment for those wishing that Apple would "fix" TV (I'm not one, to be honest - and don't really think that Google TV sounds like it has the answer either).But if – big, though promising if – you get a new generation of iPods which are suddenly enabled to stream music from Lala (or whatever Apple calls it) then the music industry might be able to feel that at least the "performance" slice of its income is going to grow nicely... even if the "digital" one isn't.And what are you expecting, if anything, from the announcement?
Join Aleks Krotoski, Jemima Kiss and Charles Arthur as they tackle the latest news from the world of technology. On this week's programme, they look at the evolution of the online music scene. Apple launches its new iPod on Wednesday in the face of the lowest quarter of sales since 2006, and the device appears to be in terminal decline. How will it maintain its influence as artists and publishers increasingly turn from iTunes downloads to streaming services such as Spotify and We7 and music apps?Charles exposes the problems inherent in the software patent system in light of the lawsuits served up against companies like Google, Facebook and eBay from Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen's Interval Licensing and the team look at the problems and the benefits of open source for local government.Finally, gamesblogger Keith Stuart speaks with Tim Clark from Firstplay.co.uk about the innovations in marketing and distributing digital content that the games industry has been perfecting in the past few years, and what this could mean for the wider digital media sector.All this plus a healthy dose of opinion – and outtakes – on Tech Weekly.
UK top 10 games chart, week ending August 27 2010PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Mafia Ii(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (41)12 (1)Kane & Lynch 2: Dog Days(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (44)PC (1)23 (2)Toy Story 3(3+)DS (40)Wii (21)Xbox 360 (18)PS3 (17)74 (3)Red Dead Redemption(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (49)155 (16)Wii Sports Resort(3+)Wii (100)586 (5)Just Dance(3+)Wii (100)387 (7)Super Mario Galaxy 2(3+)Wii (100)128 (4)Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4(7+)DS (29)Wii (28)Xbox 360 (18)PS3 (15)109 (13)Sniper: Ghost Warrior(16+)Xbox 360 (92)PC (8)810 (8)Prince Of Persia: The Forgotten Sands(16+)Xbox 360 (67)PS3 (23)Wii (5)PSP (3)15Leisure software charts compiled by GfK Chart Track© 2010ELSPA(UK) Ltd
Six-year-old social news site Digg has had a tumultuous year; but once-loyal users are now disowning itDigg's August redesign was always going to be a totemic moment for the "social news" site. And so it came to pass, as users stage a high-profile revolt against some of the site's changes.Protesting at the removal of the upcoming news page, the default setting of "My News", deleted favourites, the apparent front page domination of a handful of publishers, and the removal of the "bury" button (for voting down stories), Digg users flooded the front page with links to rival aggregators and pleaded with chief executive Kevin Rose to turn back the clock.Less than a week since the covers were taken off the new Digg – complete with many a bug andsanssmall but significant features – Rose was prompted to write ablog postaddressing the outrage.Under a headline (and mantra) of "release, iterate, repeat", Rose tackled 16 complaints, pledging to make changes to suit the feedback. He also pointed out that there were thousands of new registrations, and accentuated the positive. "Our top priority is to stabilize the site, then we'll look at the data/feedback and make decisions on what to change going forward," he commented.However, social media site Soshablegraphed118 stories on the once-fabled Digg front page in three days after the new iteration's release. Six publishers and one influential technology pundit control the lion share of Digg's most important space, it shows.Soshable: These 118 Digg front pages stories show new influence of a handful of publishersThis gets to the nub of the anger, says Media Caffeine. Ina barbed postcalling Digg a "broken covenant", MC cites this 2004 quote from the Digg founder talking about then-of-the-moment social news site slashdot: "Hundreds of people every single day are submitting content to slashdot. Tons of stories, but an editor chooses about 15 or 20 of them to display to the world. Now the only problem with that is you're relying on whatever the editor thinks is really cool, so it doesn't really give the power back to the people."MC writes:"This was the premise behind Digg. It was the promise. It was the covenant. Digg V4 breaks that covenant. Despite what Rose, his team, and their beloved mainstream celebrity buddies believe, the people do not have the power right now. The power has been given to corporate level blogs and Kevin's select-few buddies who, for some strange reason, Rose feels he needs to appease to be successful."The "bury" button – giving users the ability to vote a story down the popularity rankings – is gone, replaced with a moderated "hide" button, aimed at combating "the bury brigades", as Rose calls them.Ian Eure, an engineer who worked for Digg between 2008 and May 2010,saidthat reverting back to the previous iteration, version 3, is "simply not going to happen" – it's an infrastructural change, Eure says, not just a host of feature adaptions:"Digg v4 is not a redesign, not a reskin, it is a 100% rewrite. It's completely new design, code, architecture, and infrastructure. It has almost no relationship to the v3 system whatsoever."What's more; of the "core" team of 12 people that made the legacy Digg code work, Eure says, only one is still at the company.It's already been quite a summer for Digg. Small but significant feature changes, a rewiring of Google's algorithm and acabal of conservative conspiratorsteed up this summer's redesign as a(nother)fork in the road– it would either galvanise the site's waning influence or be the straw that broke the camel's back for its users.This isn't the first Digg revolt in its six-year history, as Rose is at pains to point outon Twitter, but it might be the most consequential. The clock is ticking for the Digg bug fixers. New features are being resurrected – but many "Diggers" may prefer running over to momentum-heavy Reddit (where plucky moderators haveposted a 101for new recruits).Previous user revolts overchanges in the Digg promotional algorithm,new comment systems, theintroduction of the browser-framing DiggBar, and theHD-DVD encryption key debacle, have made their impact and subsided. "Release, iterate, repeat", as intended.But never has a revolt come at such a critical time for the company, competing with the exponential growth of Twitter to become more social and keep its millions of influential, well-organised members engaged. At the same time, predicting the demise of the site has become something of an annual sport for Digg watchers.But, to you; how are you finding the new Digg? Have you jumped ship?
Gmail's latest feature is arguably the biggest innovation since the service launched in April 2004.'Priority inbox' learns from your email usage patterns and begins to prioritise messages that it thinks you'll be most likely to read. Your inbox is divided into three sections: important and unread, starred and everything else.The classification should improve, because you can mark messages with 'less important' or 'more important', and Gmail will learn to reclassify accordingly. It's like the inverse of junk mail filtering.Software engineer Doug Aberdeen on theofficial Gmail blogdescribed this as "a new way of taking on information overload"."Gmail uses a variety of signals to predict which messages are important, including the people you email most (if you email Bob a lot, a message from Bob is probably important) and which messages you open and reply to (these are likely more important than the ones you skip over)."Priority inbox is slowly rolling out across Gmail services. It hasn't appeared in my personal account yet, but will in the next few days along with Google Apps users (if their administrator has opted to 'Enable pre-release features').Drag and drop, launched in April, helped a little. Filters help, for those that can be bothered to set them up. But priority inbox could make a significant difference, and if Wave wasn't quite the right format for centralising and streamlining messages, then this is a more usable step in that direction.
Last weekit was the refreshed design and improved navigation with just a suggestion ofFacebookishness. This week - ahead of being completely gutted and reborn in the Autumn -MySpace's strategy for competing with Facebook appears to be 'if you can't beat them, join them'.Photo bybixentroon Flickr.Some rights reservedMySpace users can now sync their updates to Facebook, in much the same way that Twitter users can cross-post to Facebook. MySpace users will notice that the share options next to their status updates now offer Twitter and Facebook; click through, and you're taken to Facebook's permission requests page. It means that every status update, photo, video, games and link posted on mySpace will be posted on Facebook too.Note that the reciprocal arangement isn't quite there; you can't cross-post from Facebook to MySpace as yet.comScoreestimatedMySpace traffic was about 61 million monthly users in the US during July, compared to 146 million for Facebook. So it may be trailing in second place, but that's a very healthy audience. We await this Autumn's overhaul with interest; it's all about the music.
Microsoft is increasing the monthly charge for using the Xbox Live Gold service. Starting from November 1, the price will rise from £4.99 to £5.99 a month. Similar increases are being applied in the US and Canada.According to MCV, UK gamers who pay annually for the service will not be affected by the price increase, and users are being offered the chance to extend their subscriptions at the current price level.Although access to the basic Xbox Live service is free, the Gold service is required to play online multiplayer games. Currently, rival services offered on the PlayStation 3 and Wii consoles are free, although Sony has just introducedPlayStation Plus, a premium version of its online offering, which provides early access to demos, free downloadable games, and automatic firmware updates. The price is £39.99 for a 12 month subscription."Since launching Xbox LIVE in 2002 we have continually added more content and entertainment experiences for our members, while keeping the price the same," wrote official Xbox blogger,Major Nelsonwhen announcing the price changes. "We're confident that when the new pricing takes effect, an Xbox LIVE Gold membership will continue to offer the best value in the industry."Across the board, console manufacturers and games publishers are adding more functionality to their online services, with downloadable content, social networking support and seamless chat functionality becoming the norm. The extra costs of implementing and maintaining these services has led many industry giants to consider subscription charges. Electronic Arts has already implementedOnline Pass, which charges purchasers of pre-owned EA Sports games for downloadable content packs. Activision, meanwhile, isthought to beconsidering subscription fees for online multiplayer gaming on titles like Call of Duty – although the company has denied this. Microsoft will also have the extra burden of Kinect, its forthcoming motion controller system, which offers a range of connectivity features.Critics, however, point out that some of the key additions to the Microsoft Xbox Live infrastructure, specifically including movie downloads, arepaid-for serviceswhich should therefore not affect the base subscription rate. Others are suspicious of the timing. This winter will see the release ofHalo: Reach, one of the most hotly anticipated titles of the year, and one heavily focused on multiplayer gaming.What do you think? Is this the inevitable cost of maintaining a vast online content system in an era of endless digital downloads and social connectivity? Or is it a sneaky way of boosting the coffers with Halo gold?
My Bank Holiday gaming time was limited but the excellent Lara Croft and The Guardian of Light got a look in. As did the ever dependable International Cricket 2010. But what about you? How was your Bank Holiday gaming?
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Not cleaned up. Photo byNewtown grafittion Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamOld Apple QuickTime code puts IE users in harm's way &gt;&gt; Computerworld"Apple's failure to clean up old code in QuickTime leaves people running Internet Explorer (IE) vulnerable to drive-by attacks, a Spanish security researcher said on Monday."Hackers only need to dupe users into visiting a malicious site hosting exploit code, said Santamarta, who added that his attack code works when someone browses with IE on a machine running Windows XP, Vista or Windows 7 that has QuickTime 7.x or the older QuickTime 6.x installed."Microsoft to charge $10 more a year for XBox Live &gt;&gt; VentureBeat"The cost of streaming Netflix, accessing social networks and playing games online on Microsoft's Xbox 360 game console will go up beginning Nov. 1, just as Sony begins rolling out its premium $50-a-year Playstation Plus service." Then again, $10/year? (Guess what the rise in the UK will be...)MySpace Announces "Sync With Facebook," Waves White Flag &gt;&gt; Business InsiderYou can now let Facebook totally pwn your MySpace account. What's the purpose of MySpace now? As BI puts it, "Sing, fat lady, sing.""What happens when you mess with the physics of it all?" &gt;&gt; FlickrAs in, what happens when you decide to recreate a scene from the film Inception using Lego? (We'd have shown it here, but it's all rights reserved.)Twitter Rate Limits Continue To Die &gt;&gt; Techcrunch.com"Twitter has just announced that it's opening the Site Streams feature of its API up to developers. This is big news, as it allows mobile push services and web apps like Brizzly and Seesmic Web to immediately display new tweets, mentions and other data as soon as they come in, rather than having to deal with Twitter's REST API rate limits." Though some apps including Seesmic, Echofon and Tweetdeck support real-time twitter streams already.Paul Rubin: Ten Fallacies About Web Privacy &gt;&gt; WSJ.comNote number 5): "If consumers have less privacy, then someone will know things about them that they may want to keep secret. Most information is used anonymously. To the extent that things are 'known' about consumers, they are known by computers. This notion is counterintuitive; we are not used to the concept that something can be known and at the same time no person knows it. But this is true of much online information."If you only read one thing today..(@IfYouOnly) on Twitter &gt;&gt; Twitter.comBy Bobbie Johnson, former Guardian Tech writer: a Twitter feed entitled "if you only read one thing today, read this". Worth seeking out.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
The Indian government has lifted a threat to block certain BlackBerry communication services following moves by the technology firm Research in Motion that could allow the country's security authorities greater access to snoop on messages.Stepping back from the brink of a crackdown, India's ministry of home affairs said RIM had made "certain proposals for lawful access by law enforcement agencies and these would be operationalised immediately". It did not offer any detail on these concessions and RIM, which is based in Toronto, declined to comment.RIM has been sucked into a series of showdowns with governments in Asia and the Middle East over the level of privacy provided by its ubiquitous handheld devices.India had previously set a deadline of the end of August for the Canadian technology company to make corporate emails and instant messaging more accessible to its security forces.Following RIM's apparent concessions, the Indian government said today the situation would be reviewed in 60 days' time. It added that the country's telecoms ministry was examining whether all the subcontinent's BlackBerry communications could be routed through a server physically located in India.The Indian government's disquiet over BlackBerrys is thought to date back to a series of co-ordinated bombings and shootings inMumbai in November 2008that killed more than 150 people. Officials suspect that terrorists involved in the attacks communicated using encrypted messages on the devices.Striking the right balance between privacy and national security has become a significant headache for RIM, which has faced similar threats of a ban on Blackberry services in Saudi Arabia, Indonesia and the United Arab Emirates.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Monday 6 September 2010We reported below that more than 3 million doctors had downloaded an application, invented by a University College London researcher, that allows an Apple iPhone to be used as a stethoscope. What we should have said was that according to the inventor, Peter Bentley, 3 million people in general downloaded this app. (Three million doctors would have been a substantial proportion of the world's stock of same.The stethoscope – medical icon, lifesaver and doctor's best friend – is disappearing from hospitals across the world as physicians increasingly use their smartphones to monitor patients' heartbeats.More than 3 million doctors have downloaded a 59p application – invented by Peter Bentley, a researcher from University College London – which turns an Apple iPhone into a stethoscope.Last week, Bentley introduced a free version of the app, which is being downloaded by more than 500 users a day. Experts say the software, a major advance in medical technology, has saved lives and enabled doctors in remote areas to access specialist expertise."Everybody is very excited about the potential of the adoption of mobile phone technology into the medical workplace, and rightly so," said Bentley, who initially developed the app "as a fun toy"."Smartphones are incredibly powerful devices packed full of sensors, cameras, high-quality microphones with amazing displays," he said. "They are capable of saving lives, saving money and improving healthcare in a dramatic fashion – and we carry these massively powerful computers in our pockets."Bentley's iStethoscope application is not the only mobile phone programme lightening doctors' bags and transforming their practices: there are nearly 6,000 applications related to health in the Apple App Store. The uptake has been rapid. In late 2009, two-thirds of doctors and 42% of the public were using smartphones – in effect inexpensive handheld computers – for personal and professional reasons. More than 80% of doctors said they expected to own a smartphone by 2012.The trend looks likely to gain pace as younger doctors enter the workplace. Some medical schools issue students with smartphones. In America, Georgetown University, the University of Louisville and Ohio State University are among those requiring undergraduates to use one.However, experts say they are being prevented from exploiting the technology's opportunities. Bentley says that he is unable to launch a new range of applications because of out-of-date regulations."It's much easier to develop technology than it is to get permission to use it," he said. "I could create a mobile ultrasound scanner and an application to measure the oxygen content in blood, but the regulations stop me. We're not allowed to turn the phone itself into a medical device, and what that precisely means is currently a grey area in terms of regulation. That's the only reason we're not seeing a flood of these devices yet."Professor Ian Wells, head of the scientific computing section in the department of medical physics at the Royal Surrey County hospital in Guildford, agrees that innovation is being hindered by regulations that are "still in their infancy".He said: "The approach of the regulators is not well worked out yet. There's a wonderful new world out there but we need to find a way for regulators to protect patients and doctors, while not impeding innovation, research and development."The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) – the government body with responsibility for standards of safety, quality and performance in healthcare – recently set up the Medical Device Technology Forum, a group of industry representatives, regulators, users and scientists, to help establish how to regulate novel technologies."This is such a complex area that we are currently looking at every application on a case-by-case basis," said an MHRA spokesman. "We want to ensure that these new technologies are effectively regulated – thereby protecting health and avoiding unnecessary deterrents – while at the same time removing any unnecessary obstacles to manufacturers who wish to exploit new technologies for the benefit of patients."European regulators are also striving to bring their guidelines up to date. A group of regulators from Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Ireland, Sweden and the UK was set up last December to develop guidance for software under the European Medical Device Regulations. They are expected to report at the end of the year.•Appliance of science• Star Analytical Services has developed an app that allows patients to cough into their phone, and tells them whether they have a cold, flu, pneumonia or other respiratory diseases.• OsiriX lets doctors look at x-rays, ultrasounds, CT and MRI images on handheld devices or mobile phones with special software, enabling radiologists, for example, to diagnose acute appendicitis from remote locations.• ERoentgen Radiology Dx helps radiologists identify the most appropriate radiology exam for a patient by searching a large database of signs, symptoms and diagnoses to help them make quick assessments.• Instant ECG is just one app that analyses the most common ECG results. It distinguishes the difference in various myocardial ischemia or injury patterns. Using the iPhone's interactive touch screen, the app offers "real-time" films to make rhythm analysis similar to the clinical setting.• AirStrip OB, an iPhone app, gives obstetricians real-time remote access to foetal heart tracings, contraction patterns, nursing notes, and vital signs. Obstetricians can monitor different stages of labour even when they are not by a patient's side.
Buying games can be an exasperating business, especially when something you've spent upwards of £40 on falls far short of your expectations. And, let's face it, when you're feeling exasperated there's few better ways to make yourself feel better than to vent your spleen on the internet.With this in mind, and inspired partly bythis(which, in fairness, was probably inspired bythis), I thought I'd collect a few of the more amusing one-star reviews you can find for some classic games on Amazon.co.uk. It is a bank holiday after all.Half-Life 2:"Gave me a migraine ... if you are patient (boring and lazy) then I'm sure you will enjoy the game, but you never feel tension or drama which left me feeling bored. For those of you who like fast, thrilling gameplay .... I would strongly recommend that you DO NOT BUY."Fallout 3:"This is without a doubt one of the worst games I have ever played. You die instantly. The map is far too big with not a great deal in it. Dull, dull , dull. Overrated and overhyped."Super Mario Galaxy:"People with a brain and some objectivity will gain nothing from playing this game. Super Mario Galaxy is one of the worst platformers I have ever played. I suggest trying Spyro the Dragon for PS1 instead."Grand Theft Auto 4:"There are good games, there are bad games, there are terrible games and then there is the monumentally awful type of game. This is at least ten times worse than that ... the whole thing is just complete embarrassment to the franchise ... save yourself from this misery."Fifa 10:"Painful is what springs to mind when playing this game! The gameplay is just awful and about as much fun as cleaning the toilet! What's with the midfield molestation?"Final Fantasy 7:"Not only are the graphics completely flawed, but the characters are shallow. There is one and only one good thing about the game, and that is that during the game a main character dies."Red Dead Redemption:"I wanted to love this game, and went out of my way to pre-order it. But it's an over-hyped, under-designed, turgid mess."Portal:"Simply ridiculous. Unless you have copious amounts of patience (and I am a patient man), you will not still be playing after five minutes. A rubik's cube would be a simpler and funner investment than this 'game'."Bioshock:"The game fails in every sector; the graphics are below average, the gameplay is boring, repetitive and unoriginal, the controls are clunky, confusing and unresponsive, the voice acting is abysmal, there is no replay value."Batman: Arkham Asylum:"This game feels like a PS2 game and I became bored with it very quickly. The graphics aren't great, it's very linear and most importantly, the gameplay is nowhere near next-gen!"Uncharted 2:"Absolute trash ... this game is pure garbage, the only good thing about this pathetic excuse of game is the graphics. The gameplay is dull and boring."Call of Duty: Modern Warfare:"If I could give 0 stars I would ... the game is a massive disappointment. I was a huge fan of the other COD games but this game sucks. Multiplayer sucks as well."Deus Ex:"I was overwhelmed by a feeling of pointlessness very early on, and I felt so cheated that I actually threw the CD in in the bin."Did you agree with any of these exasperated critics? Or found a one-star review of your own? If only there was an appropriate space where such things could be shared ...
Bank Holiday Monday edition of Chatterbox
Census in this part of Brazil not too challenging. Photo bytipiroon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBrazil's Smartphone Census &gt;&gt; Parminder Bahra"The Brazilians say that the digital census has several advantages over paper and pen methods. They say that the data is more accurate since GPS data will pinpoint the exact location of a household. The GPS data is cross-referenced with satellite images to ensure that responses are correctly geo-tagged. The digital approach allows changes to areas, streets and buildings to be incorporated. This is particularly pertinent in the slums as these areas tend to change quickly and their density mean that printed maps are quickly out of date. The use of digital technology means that mapping is considerably more accurate and that adjustments and changes can be made all the time to ensure that the coverage is as comprehensive as possible."IBGE estimates that upto 5 per cent of households are incorrectly located in traditional censuses compared with 0.5 per cent of digital data."Music, Sweet music &gt;&gt; Asymco.comBack in March, Asymco collected together what people were saying about the then-announced-but-still-forthcoming iPad. Manufacturers like Lenovo said they'd tried the idea but teens didn't like it in prototype. They're nothing new.  Quite useful if you need a collection of people whose predictions you need to avoid.What's the success rate of Facebook spam? &gt;&gt; F-SecureInvestigating statistics unwittingly provided by spammers which show how well (or badly) their spam links have done.DLL Hijacking and Why Loading Libraries is Hard &gt;&gt; F-Secure"The problem is really quite simple. An attacker will try to trick someone into opening a data file (for example, an MP3 file in the case of iTunes) from a folder while at the same time placing a malicious Dynamic-link Library (DLL) somewhere under the same location. By doing this, he can force a vulnerable application to execute the malicious code. So, double-clicking on the wrong file on a network share might get your machine infected."The whole class of problems is really nothing new. As Thierry Zoller points out, a nearly identical issue was reported a good 10 years ago. Why are we seeing lots of new vulnerabilities now? A lot can be attributed to a new tool that was made available by HD Moore last Sunday. It makes finding such vulnerabilities very easy."All the new screens &gt;&gt; Asymco"So what strikes me about all of these designs is that they're basically just shiny rectangular things. There is very little you can do as a vendor to stand out with any particular rendition of a rectangle. This is also becoming obvious with the mechanical design of smartphones. They are all smaller rectangles with shiny black screens."Which begs the question: as they are all just screens, shouldn't what's on the screen matter more than the screen itself?"Council transparency on spending wrongly implies see-through undies purchase - getsurrey"The figures, which have been published on the council's website in an effort to create greater transparency, clearly state that thousands of pounds were spent with a lingerie company during the last financial year. However, the council said that the money was a refund of business rates rather than a large purchase of underwear."Microsoft's billion dollar bonfire &gt;&gt; AsymcoThe Scandinavian analysts comment on Microsoft's plans to spend $1bn marketing Windows Phone 7: "With hundreds of Android devices and RIM and Apple increasing distribution, why would operators be willing to spend hundreds on a venture to promote a new platform? This decision is even more puzzling when realizing that the vendor of the new platform left nothing but business model carcasses behind the last time they got involved in the industry."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Breakfast TV star Kate Garraway is launching an online business that will enable members of the public to benefit from the type of discounts that are often available to celebrities.Goodypass.com will strike deals with retailers and suppliers to offer fans a range of goods, including beauty treatments and designer sunglasses, at a reduced price. It will also allow consumers to communicate directly with showbiz personalities, including Garraway, who hosts ITV's morning news show,GMTV.The venture is being backed by Edward Shenderovich, a Russian-born internet entrepreneur who was raised in California. Shenderovich is providing seed capital thorough his venture capital fund Kite Ventures.Kite has invested in dotcoms including AlterGeo.ru, a Russian social networking site. It also backed SponsorPay.com, which has created a virtual currency that can be used on a range of websites and exchanged for real cash.Garraway's project joins a growing number of group buying sites. The market leader, Groupon, a US site that offers American users one discount a day for goods or services in their city, is valued at more than $1bn.Goodypass is due to go live this weekend, although there will be no products on sale. The venture will aim to sign up a host of other household names before and after its official launch in autumn this year.Garraway said: "I've always known I was really lucky to be given exclusive offers and deals on all sorts of goodies just because I was on TV. I thought it would be great if those who signed up would also get access to the sort of great offers and deals that normally only celebrities are treated to."
The newest version of the Kindle e-reader is out. And guess what? "Due to strong customer demand," says the Amazon website, "Kindle is temporarily sold out. Order now to reserve your place in the queue... orders placed today are expected to dispatch on or before 17 September."This is interesting, is it not? It's not all that long ago, in the fevered run-up to the launch of the Apple iPad, that conventional wisdom held that the Kindle was a dead duck – roadkill for the iTunes/iBooks steamroller on the highway to the future. I mean to say, the Kindle was sooo clunky: you had topress buttonsjust to turn the page and how 1980s is that? With the iPad, you just swooshed your finger and – hey presto! – the page turned. Cool.Then there was the impact of the iPad on publishers, who saw the Apple iBook store as a way of breaking Amazon's stranglehold on sales – and, more important, the pricing – of ebooks. And so it came to pass that the Kindle was consigned to the role of brave but outdated pioneer. Amazon might have triggered the ebook revolution, but it would be Apple that would wind up running the show.The problem with this kind of thinking is that it is based on an elementary schoolboy mistake, namely the assumption that, in a networked world, it is the hardware that matters most. According to this view, because the iPad, viewed purely as a device, was seen as incomparably superior to the Kindle, it followed that Apple would triumph in the ebooks market.Let's deal with the hardware issue first. The iPad is indeed a much more powerful and versatile device than even the latest Kindle. But as an e-reader, it has some major deficiencies. First, at 730g, it's pretty heavy, so any extended reading session requires support from a lap or table. Second, its reflective screen makes it difficult to read in bright light. And it's damned expensive.On these three factors, the new Kindle wins hands down. At 247g, it's much lighter; the screen is readable even in bright sunlight; and it's much, much cheaper — £149 for the model which comes with Wi-Fi and free 3G connectivity. You can begin to see why Amazon might have trouble meeting consumer demand for its new baby.In the end, however, it's not hardware that matters, but the effectiveness of the overall system in which the device is embedded. That was the great lesson of the Apple iPod: although the hardware was lovely from the outset, it would never have had the impact it had without the link to iTunes software on the PC/Mac and thence to the iTunes store. Other companies had made nice MP3 players, but none had put together a seamless system for getting music from CDs or online retailers on to them. Apple did and the rest is history.The evolution of the ebook business reveals the same kind of pattern. First up, in 2006, was Sony, with a beautifully crafted device that had one crippling drawback: the difficulty of getting stuff on to it. A year later, Amazon launched the first-generation Kindle, a device inferior to the Sony product in every respect save one: it had wireless connectivity to the Amazon online store, which meant that purchasing and downloading books on to the device was a breeze. After that, it was game over for Sony and, indeed, for all the other companies that had piled into the e-reader market.Amazon didn't just have a device, it had a system into which it fitted. It also had a strategy based on understanding that, ultimately, the device is not what matters. The first manifestation of this came when Amazon released a free iPhone/iPodTouch app which enabled users to access the Kindle store from their phones or iPods. To some observers at the time, this seemed like madness: why give away such an advantage to the company that was set on becoming your deadliest rival?In fact, it may have been an inspired move, a contemporary implementation of the old Gillette ploy of giving away razors while making money from selling blades. And, so far, it seems to have worked: Amazon has somewhere between 60% and 80% of the US ebooks market, thoughthere are disputes about the precise figures.This share will probably decline somewhat as the market matures, but it's hard to see Amazon losing its dominance.Oh – I almost forgot to mention that the new Kindle hasan "experimental" web browser. Stay tuned.
The iPhone's back catalogue may be swollen with lazily designed games and sloppy clones of yesterday's hits, but that doesn't mean there isn't room for titles that feel fresh and exciting. One of the new releases showcasing this spirit (and that ensures it remains a showcase for the best of gaming's fringe) isGravity Runner(App Store, 59p, We Are Colin). Its 2-D platform- jumping form may be familiar but, with the introduction of an exceedingly simple gravity manipulation mechanism that lets the player toy with Newton's law through a tap of the screen, this tidy little title becomes an engrossing action puzzle game that can prove hard to put to one side.Energetic and polished,Gravity Runnerneatly combines a lo-fi attitude with a knack for considered design that will keep delivering thrills long after you think you've learned all its tricks.In a similar vein,Splode(App Store, 59p, Escalation Studios) delivers a deft mix of edgy, indie styling and in-depth gameplay. Boiling the concept of minimal interaction down to purest form, each level requires nothing more than a single screen tap, and yetSplodestill demonstrates considerable cunning. The player's task is to clear screens of clusters of drifting and highly unstable explosive life forms by triggering meandering chain reactions with a well-placed detonation. Esoteric, hypnotic, and featuring some incredibly well-implemented dynamic audio,Splodemakes for an eerie spin on reaction-based puzzle gaming that should not be missed.
Edgar Wright, director ofShaun of the Dead, has drawn much acclaim for the marriage of cinema and games culture in his latest film,Scott Pilgrim vs The World, so a spin-off game was somewhat  inevitable. However, in truth, this is more an adaptation of the graphic novel upon which the film is based, drawing on the stylised 8-bit looks of the original comics.Following the film's plot, you control Scott Pilgrim, a Torontonian slacker in a hectic side-scrolling beat-'em-up. Your task: to blitz through endless rows of foes earning cash to upgrade your stats in order to defeat the seven evil exes of Scott's new girl.It looks suitably vintage, but the modern 8-bit visuals disguise an impressive level of detail, with gameplay familiar to anyone who playedDouble DragonorStreets of Rageback in the day. One gripe is the lack of online co-op, as it can be devilishly tricky solo. Also, the fact friends can't join in on the go is an egregious omission – this was standard 20 years ago. It's undoubtedly a cut above the standard movie tie-in, in keeping with the spirit of the source material, and had they got the multiplayer right this would be a flawless retro offering.
With yearly updates of sports franchises it's often difficult for anyone but the most dedicated enthusiast to gauge the key differences between the current version and last year's game. On the latest version of American football stalwartMadden NFL, however, the new content is given top billing on the main menu, although EA Sports needn't have bothered, as the additions are instantly noticeable when you play.The new GameFlow system removes tactical complexities in favour of a single situation-based call for each play, significantly reducing the time it takes to complete a game. It certainly accomplishes that, though your coach's choices aren't always perfect; at vital moments your defence can seem porous and badly organised.New control options allow players to dart through gaps and shrug off tackles with the right analogue stick, while online play has been revamped, with a three-on-three mode and the ability to scout your opponents. The card-collecting Ultimate Team game popularised by the Fifa series makes its debut here, and the likably enthusiastic Gus Johnson is an excellent addition to the commentary booth.Series veterans may be frustrated at the lack of attention paid to the game's signature franchise mode, but for newcomers this year's game is the ideal way to get acquainted with the best gridiron simulation on the market.
Mafia IIis the sequel to the rough-around-the-edges but none the less fondly rememberedMafia: The City of Lost Heaven, a PC game released not long afterGrand Theft Auto IIIin 2002. In development for more than three years,Mafia IIis pitched as a mob-themedGTA4– a grand promise that's certainly not easy to fulfil.The setting, Empire City, is detailed and believable, with a rich and palpable sense of place. Set in the mid- to late 1940s, the music, cars, architecture, clothing and language of its version of New York reflect the period far better than, for instance, Pandemic'sThe Saboteurdid late last year. The characters, though largely one-dimensional in most instances, are enjoyable to watch and listen to – which is beneficial, as the game relies&nbsp;rather a lot on cut scenes to stitch&nbsp;together the driving and&nbsp;shooting.However, it's a shame that ageing technology sometimes breaks this well-built sense of realism. It suffers from temperamental checkpointing and a slightly unpredictable AI that has a habit of killing you with improbable headshots – two problems that exacerbate each other as you're forced right back to the start of a mission over and over again. Equally, the objective markers on your mini-map are often unclear, failing to tell you whether you're on the correct floor of a building, for instance.But the real problem with 2K's open&nbsp;world is that there's nothing to do in it. The street you'll walk down in Little Italy, the game's opening mission,&nbsp;is richly populated, full of arguing lovers, friends shouting at each other out of windows and bickering families, but outside of the scripted missions, there's not so much as a conversation to be had or a side-mission in an off-moment and you'll barely even find a shop in which to spend your criminally obtained dollars. Empire City is alive only within its own predetermined boundaries.As long as you don't attempt to stray outside these boundaries, though,Mafia IIhas a good story to tell, a decent script to go with it, and pleasingly little downtime between shootouts, set pieces and fast getaways. Which makes it a story, and a world, that you can definitely enjoy, but not one you'll lose yourself in.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?Whatever piece of word processing software I'm using. I never learned to touch-type.When was the last time you used it, and what for?To answer the previous question.What additional features would you add if you could?I'd like a Word-compatible processor optimised for writing novels, that takes&nbsp;up a minimum of storage space,&nbsp;thanks.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I imagine we'll be using some version of it as long as we continue to write at lengths greater than 140 characters.What always frustrates you about technology in general?The reality of malfunction, something I've quite rightly been criticised for neglecting to adequately depict in my&nbsp;fiction.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and&nbsp;hated?The last fax I bothered to purchase, which cost virtually nothing, and was so loaded with features and options that I've yet to figure out how to send a fax. Fortunately I only need to send two or three a year, in which case I go to a nearby shop.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?To wait for at least the second iteration, but then I suppose it's no longer new. But I've always tended to be a slow adaptor. I'd rather watch other people use new things than use them myself.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Neither. I try to be objective about technology. Agnostic, in a sense. Whatever personal opinions I form tend to have more to do with what we find to do with the new thing.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?A Volkswagen Passat.Mac or PC, and why?Mac. I started with Apple, in a pre-Windows era when PCs seemed to involve more of a learning curve. But the fact that I'm yet to acquire so much&nbsp;as a single virus still seems a very&nbsp;good thing.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?Both. I like physical browsing. It activates the hunter-gatherer module&nbsp;differently. I last bought Arcade Fire's new album,The Suburbs, via iTunes.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?I've never been very intrigued with the idea of robots, not even as a boy. Actually I've never been intrigued at all with the idea of a butler.What piece of technology would you most like to own?AFesto Air Penguin! It's an autonomously flying robotic penguin.William Gibson's new novel, Zero History (Viking), is published on 2&nbsp;September
The LookOriginally built to accompany the book The Look about rock'n'roll fashion, this blog has gone beyond the regular promotional lifespan and continues to update with enlightening pieces on the intersection between pop and clobber. Mainly that intersection is focused between the eras of punk and early hip-hop – a period that takes in the Sex shop, new romantic hang out The Wag Club, The Face magazine and Run DMC's Adidas sneakers and Kangol hats. Scroll through the archive and you'll find excellent pieces on Malcolm McLaren, including the fake letters he sent winding up the music press when he was manager of the Sex Pistols. Elsewhere there are entries on the sartorial memoirs of Jah Wobble, the role of latex in contemporary pop and worship of Iggy Pop's cheetah print jacket: "the Turin Shroud of punk rock fashion".LamebookMy snake giving his pet rat a hug! Awwww. From  Lamebook.Facebook has become such an integral part of our lives that many people forget how much of what they write and upload ends up in the public domain. Not that most of the people whose status updates are ridiculed here spend much time thinking. "It's so weird 2 think that the world is only 2010 years old", writes a chap called Ace, while the whole electronic media versus print debate is eloquently summed up by a pixelated lady who reports "like 4 real who read books n e more? maybe wen imma a granma! lol". There are also photos (like this one, captioned "My snake giving his pet rat a hug!"), typos, fights and an excellent series dedicated to Facebook "Security Check" failures. And yes, Lamebook does have its own Facebook page.Blog Roll: SnapsAwkward Family Pet Photos.Awkward Family Pet PhotosCelebrating the special and embarrassing bond between people and their reluctant pets.The Independent Photo BookGateway to the magnificent world of self-published photography books and fanzines.iPhoneographyNews, tips, videos and apps for iPhone snappers.Flickr BlogPopular photo sharing, from "what's in your bag" to baby's first laugh.Illusion 360Optical illusions, visual gags and trick photography.Iconic PhotosThe stories behind famous photo sessions - from Madonna's Sex book to the Queen's currency portraits.Cheap Plastic GoodnessAdventures with an old Polaroid and toy plastic film cameras.What we learned on the web this weekAtrocious rock facial hair.Facial hairatrocities of rock historyThe Expendablescast aren't always manlyFour weethingsWhat Lolitashould have been calledWhere thewasps areSloths areawesomeHow to putthose old accordion lessons to useRobots willkill musicOne in 200men are direct descendants of Genghis KhanMorrissey's favourite13 albumsThe dangerof high fivesGators really docome from gutters!
When you drive a&nbsp;new car for the first time, there are always things you have to get used to. With this one it was the absence of a handbrake. After parking, and successfully not bumping into the cars on either side of the space using the beep…beep…beep… beep... beep… beepbeepbeep audio parking aid, I reached automatically for the handbrake. Not there! Instead I found the Meriva's "flexirail system", a sliding track with various cup holders, coin holders, etc. Lovely, but not what I needed at that point.Eventually I found a button with P on it, which seemed to do the trick – the "electric park brake button", Vauxhall says; the "fingerbrake", my girlfriend says. She wanted to know if it would do fingerbrake turns. Not at all successfully, we found out later. But the Meriva is not really the car for that kind of behaviour.What is it good for, then? Well, it's good for getting things – like very old people (or very young people) – in and out of the back, on account of its revolutionary wide-opening, rear-hinged back doors. Suicide doors is the technical term, I believe, though Vauxhall probably doesn't encourage it, and they have reduced the risk of death to the very old/young in the back by making it impossible to open the rear doors if you're going faster than 2mph. We tried, when we trying the fingerbrake turns.I'm not going to do all the stuff about ride and handling because, a)&nbsp;there's not room, b) I'm not really qualified to, and c) no one really reads this page for that – that's whatWhatCar? magazineis for. Suffice to&nbsp;say, it does everything very well, as modern cars tend to. What I can say, though, with honesty and authority, is that when a Citroën C3 Picasso – a similar-sized MPV – pulled up next to me at the lights, I was jealous. It just looked nicer, something you'd feel more pleased to call yours, even if it was harder to get granny in and out of.The Meriva is hideous – fact. The ripple along the side is a disaster, it looks as if it's crashed into something head on, and sent a shock wave along itself. And there's something about those doors that reminds me of something, what is it... got it! A London taxi – not the new one, but theFairway, with the rear-hinged doors and the handles at the front. So much so that when my girlfriend asked for a lift to Luton airport, I astounded her – even myself – by agreeing, but only if she sat in the back. Well, she is getting on a bit...Then, when we got there, I did something I've always wanted to do: I lowered my driver's window, reached out, and opened her door,&nbsp;without getting out. Then I&nbsp;charged her 48 quid.Vauxhall Meriva 1.4T ExclusivPrice£17,365Top speed117mphAcceleration0-62mph 11.5 secondsAverage consumption46.3mpgCO2 emissions143g/kmEco rating8/10Bound forGranny'sIn a wordTaxi!
I've been a heavy user of Google Calendar and Contacts for a couple of years now, and that is why I first started using an Android phone, the HTC Magic. My boyfriend recently got the HTC Desire which showed me how the Magic was getting dated, so I decided it was time to upgrade.However, as an SMS-addict and avid tweeter I found the small keyboard on my old phone a bit fiddly and didn't see that improving with the latest incarnations. Added to that, we recently got an iPad and I liked its convenience for reading articles. I didn't want to be carrying yet another device around in my handbag, though. So, when I heard about the Dell Streak it sounded perfect: one device that combined the benefits of a powerful modern smartphone with some of those of a 'pad.I ordered it straight from Dell, SIM-free, for £449. Taking it out of the box I was immediately impressed with the look and feel. It is slim and dense, but not too heavy, and sexily sleek all in black. I find it balances surprisingly well in my left hand, naturally lending itself to being held sideways (landscape). It is also not so large that it cannot fit in a man's suit or shirt pocket.Actually making calls on the phone in public can be a little 'Dom Joly' due to its size. However, that is easily addressed with a Bluetooth earpiece and was not unexpected.The 800 x 480, five-inch screen is crisp, clear and bright, and I am now regularly using it to read the Economist or New Scientist on the train. The 1GHz Snapdragon processor is blisteringly fast, as is the HSDPA 3G and WiFi, making the browsing experience similar in speed to that of a netbook. With K9Mail I can even now access my industrial-strength IMAP mailbox (250 folders and more than 200,000 emails), something I have not previously managed on a phone.As for the 16GB storage, I'm barely scratching it despite telling Spotify to download all my playlists. There is plenty of space for downloading films, and the playback quality of those I've tried was great. Sadly there is no BBC iPlayer support, yet.Unfortunately there are other issues, though mostly minor. The supposedly near-indestructible Gorilla glass screen has been disappointing. In three weeks my Streak has picked up a number of fine scratches, two of which I now regularly notice when using it.Further, unlike the HTC Desire or Google's Nexus One my Streak was shipped with the now ageing Android 1.6 operating system, complete with a number of irritating quirks and bugs despite Dell's customisations. I have even had to remove the battery to force a reset after a particularly bad crash. The keyboard has also been disappointing, mainly because of the software. Unlike my HTC Magic, the auto-correction system seems over-complex and counter-intuitive, and I can no longer blindly touch-type.The default software bundle could also be better. As an experienced Android user I was fine, just downloading my usual set of apps and syncing up with Google. Those used to the intuitive ease of Apple's products and without previous Android experience may find it a somewhat steep learning curve. However, Android 2.2 for the Streak is coming out soon and I expect that will be a big improvement.In summary, despite some minor niggles, the Dell Streak is an excellent device. I also think my experiment of trying to get the benefits of a 'pad and a smart phone in one device has worked. It is big enough to be easy to read, watch or interact with for extended periods but small enough to be highly portable, with all the other benefits of a high-end smartphone. It is a little let down by its older operating system, but even Android 1.6 still overall excels. If you like the idea of a hybrid pad-phone then this could be for you, even if not an Android user. The small investment of time to get to grips with Android would certainly be worthwhile in order to get the full benefits of this device.Pros:Big, crisp screen; fast processor and commas; slim, sleek and good-looking.Cons:No Android 2.2 (yet); poor typing auto-correction; weak software bundle.Dell Streak, £449 (SIM-free).Specs:5" 800 x 480 multi-touch screen, Android OS, Qualcomm Snapdragon 8250 processor. 5MP rear camera, VGA front-facing camera. Browser: WebKit (Android). Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, USB2.0. Plays: MP3, WMA, AAC, AAC+, eAAC+, AMR, Midi, WAV, H.263 / H.264, .3GP, MPEG4, WMV. Size: 152.9 x 79.1 x 9.98 mm. Weight: 220g.Kate Craig-Wood is CEO ofMemset Dedicated Hosting.
Founded in August 2007 and with a staff of seven,iGluecalls itself "the superglue of the net" – and aims to be the future envy of Google.Indexing internet pages (ring any bells?), iGlue uses technology to understand the semantic use of words and delivers related information based on text highlighted by the user.Peter Vasko, chief executive of the three-year-old company behind iGlue In4 Kft, tells us his ambitions upon next month's launch – and reveals its closest competitor is owned by the Mountain View internet monolith Google.Peter Vasko, chief executive of the company behind iGlue, aims to have his product on every browser on the internet•How are you funded?"In4 Kft. [the company behind iGlue] specialises in the development of online applications based on university researches, with the participation of young university researchers. We are VC funded by Power of the Dream Ventures."•How many users do you have now, and what's your target within12 months?"We launch in September 2010. In 12 months we want 250,000 users."•Explain your business to my Mum."Imagine you're reading an article about the recession on bbc.co.uk. Maybe you want to know more about a person or place in the article. iGlue is a little box in your internet window that lets you double click any word on any web page to learn more about it. It will give you info, maps, links, videos, images and more right there without trawling round the internet for ages."•How does that work?"iGlue indexes the internet but it also understands the meaning of words. So when you search 'Kennedy' it can figure out from the article if you mean politician, airport or space station. It organises info and sorts the web, therefore 'wikifying' it in the process."•How do you make money?"We know that search traffic is one of the most valuable commodities on the web and we believe that we can get a chunk of that. By understanding our customers more deeply we will be able to provide a discreet and effective advertising model."•How are you surviving the downturn?"We have received our next round of funding and we are not focusing on our public launch in September so we're happy and busy."•What's your background?"Web developer, researcher but also a journalist, poet and a teacher. Either way, I always look for the spot from where the view on the world is the most exciting."•What makes your business unique?"IGlue completely changes people's interaction with online content. We provide a huge dynamic layer of content underneath any text on the web."•What has been your biggest achievement or proudest moment so far?"Without a doubt Geek'n Rolla 2010, organised by TechCrunch. Not just because of the second place, but we were amazed by the buzz around us during the public demo of iGlue in the exhibition room. After the conference, even the tech and hotel staff wanted to try it!"•Who in the tech business inspires you?"John von Neumann, Ted Nelson, Steve Wozniak."•What's your biggest challenge?"Since iGlue is Hungarian and based in Budapest, it's harder for us to compete with US companies vying for the attention of VC and press who are based across the Atlantic – but we're working on it!"• What's the most important piece of software or web tool that you use eachday?"Google Docs."•Name your closest competitors."Apture,Open Calais,Freebase(Google),Evri."•Where do you want the company to be in five years?"In every web browser on the internet."•Sell to Google, or be bigger than Google?"Neither. Although we believe that we are building a product that will revolutionise the way people browse and experience the web. We really admire all the innovative hard work the guys at Google do. We would love to be in a position Google envies."
Pete Warden, creator of the very fineOpenHeatMap, has written aguest post at Hubspotlooking at the growth of Twitter. Nine months after being created in 2006, it had a few thousand users; now it's got more than a hundred million. How?"To answer that question I created a visual history of  Twitter's growth, feeding data from Dharmesh Shah (developer of TwitterGrader.com) intoOpenHeatMapto produce an animated visualization of the service's growth, along with information on the earliest users for each region. That gave a broad overview of the spread of the network, but I also did some independent research on user numbers in the first few months, and approached some of those early users to discover exactly what made them sign up to the service."He notes that"I was expecting to see a wave of adoption spreading out of the tech hubs of the West Coast, but even back in December 2006 I found 121 users in New York, compared to 404 around the mother-ship in San Francisco. There was even a healthy bunch of early-adopters in 'flyover country', with 6 users in Boise, 13 in Salt Lake City and 8 in Kansas City."What's clearly key is that Twitter underwent a viral explosion at a key point in its life. Winning an award at SXSW 2007 was key. Its first growth spurt came when itopened itself up to the public:Twitter's early growth, as visualised by data from its API"What's clear from these monthly charts is that the service truly was viral, even in its early days. As it got more users, they drove more users, giving you the rocketing curve every entrepreneur dreams of. It looks like a service that users loved and shared with their friends, instead of one where traffic is driven by high-profile articles and hype."But what Warden finds even more important is that for an internet startup, where you are - and where your users are - doesn't necessarily matter."What surprised me most was how little geography mattered for adoption. Even in today's world of ubiquitous internet access, I expected that real-life clusters of friends would be the main vectors by which the service would spread. I don't see the sort of city-specific growth spurts I'd expect if that were true, instead the network took root wherever there were people. That has some interesting implications for anyone starting their own service, it looks like focusing on virtual communities instead of physical ones can be very effective."(Added:)"I'd also never thought of Twitter as an aspirational service, but Neha nailed the atmosphere of the early days. There was an air of exclusivity, of access to an interesting group of Valley rockstars, that gave people a reason to check it out. This feels a lot like the way that Facebook started at Ivy League colleges and then opened up progressively to lower-status groups with the promise of mixing with a 'better class' of people. That might explain why companies like Google have such a hard time launching similar services, catering to the masses they can't pretend they're exclusive, but it bodes well for Quora's approach."The reality of its rapid adoption all over the country is hard to square with its image as an exclusive Valley club, but maybe that contradiction is the sign of exquisite marketing. Apple gives their users that same sensation of belonging to an elite, even as they sell products in malls across the country. Twitter tapped into people whose dreams were in Silicon Valley, wherever they were in the world."So take heart, startup people."Finally, one heartening thing for me and any other starving entrepreneur is how eclectic the initial growth was. There were spurts and slowdowns in the beginning, and while it was clearly a success story even at the time, the magnitude of their long-term trajectory wasn't obvious through the noise."If you're in a startup, does that look like the sort of growth you're seeing? Or do you think that the geography of the US - where you immediately get access to a huge market - alters the rules for them?
How did this happen to Realtime Worlds? That's the question most industry pundits have been asking all week. APB was going to be the Grand Theft Auto of the 21st century – a freeform cops'n'robbers shootfest, taking place in a massively multiplayer universe where player characters were infinitely customisable. Realtime Worlds, founded by Grand Theft Auto creator Dave Jones, was the giant of the Dundee games community, the lynchpin amid a thriving enclave of studios, many spawned from Jones's original company, DMA Design. Last week, however, Realtime Worlds went into administration with the loss of 150 jobs. The developer had apparently burned through $105m in funding. It was the Heaven's Gate of gaming.Here's what's left. APB has a small staff, managing the game for its 130,000 or so registered users. Meanwhile, another twenty developers are onProject MyWorld, a hugely innovative and ambitious social gaming platform that's been in development for several years alongside its higher profile stable mate. Administrator Begbies Traynor says it is looking for buyers and has had promising meetings. Nothing has been confirmed yet.Those are the facts, but they tell a fraction of the story. Gamesblog has spoken to two ex-RTW staff, who wish to remain anonymous. They have much more of it...First of all, some employees saw this coming months ago. Amid all the pre-release hype surrounding APB, pockets of staff within Realtime Worlds were already scared for their jobs. "The first hint we got was, a few months before APB launched, the company started, quite bizarrely, to make cleaners redundant. I thought that was rather suspicious," says an ex-member of the MyWorld team. "Later, rumours started coming in from Ruffian Games [another Dundee development studio, formed by ex-RTW staff], that redundancies were imminent. And then RTW let all the contractors go early, which was another sign that money was running out. But they said everything was fine."It wasn't. When APB was released on 29 June, it was clear the game was nowhere near ready. The shooting mechanism didn't work, the vehicle handling was sluggish, the matchmaking system was hopelessly inaccurate. When Gamesblog previewed the game eariier this year it was running on a LAN and seemed fast enough – and potentially, enormous fun. But the reviews were mostly damning – there was much talk about potential, about ambition, but the Metacritic rating, which currently stands at 58, tells its own damning story. Jonestried to suggestthat reviewers didn't understand the game, that it wasn't GTA, that there was no pre-written narrative – it would all come from emergent player activity. Really, though, the game wasn't good enough."We were getting the data every week and we could see what the sales were like," says one member of the APB team. "It was very clear to us a number of weeks ago that the game was not selling in the quantities that the projections told us it would. Couple that with the feedback we were getting on the forums and add in the reviews … it wasn't painting a great picture. And it became clear that APB was not sustainable given the revenues it was generating. The dev team didn't need management to tell them that."At the beginning of August a board meeting was scheduled which everyone knew about – because, you know, people talk. And it was widely known that the board was discussing the performance of APB and how they were going to address that. So everyone was on tenterhooks – and a lot of people expected there to be a fairly significant change as a result of that meeting. But it took the board another week or so to gather more financial data before they could make a decision. Pretty much the whole of August has been horrible for the team, because they knew something was going to happen, but they didn't know what."There had, in fact, already been a few redundancies on APB in early July.At the time, this was put down to streamlining in the wake of the game's release. Then on 13 August, the news broke that the entire MyWorld team was being laid off. "APB continues to be our primary development focus, and we remain fully committed to the game and its players," was the terse statement. "We were told that the budget for our game had been spent on APB," adds our insider, bitterly.But because of the reviews, the rumours, the disappointing beta tests, there weren't enough players. That was the killer.And you've just got to ask again, how did this happen?There's no doubting the calibre of the team. Lead designer EJ Moreland came in from Sony Online Entertainment where he worked on Everquest II; before that, he was a designer on the formative Ultima Online franchise. Brian Ulrich, the company's director of development, came from EA Sports. As for the rest, within two days of the administration announcement, the likes of Sega, Blitz and Activision were flying up to Dundee to set up recruitment events. This was a talented, respected outfit.But from listening to staff, from following subsequent Twitter conversations and blogposts, it's clear huge mistakes were being made. "If we're being brutally honest, we didn't pay enough attention to the design of the game," says Gamesblog's source on the APB team. "When you're working for someone like Dave, it's all too easy to not believe what your ears and eyes, and QA and beta testers are telling you. You're like 'Dave knows what he's doing, it's going to be fine'. The team was saying for a long, long time that there were things that were not quite right with the game … It was never the case that the design was fundamentally broken, but in the execution of a lot of the features there are things that didn't quite come together, that weren't polished to the level that people expected."Even within the MyWorld team, the APB troubles were tangible. As our source says, "The middle management – and there was a LOT of middle management at this company – they were on that game for years and they continued to run it as though they were managing an architecture project or something. Fun never seemed to be a criterion for what they were doing; managers with little clipboards would go around and tick off things, saying 'OK that's done' and moving on. There was never any consideration for whether or not what had been done was any fun."Another part of the problem, it seems, was the money. There was simply too much of it, and no one had come up with a plan on how to spend it effectively. "Having too much money is as much a curse for start-ups as having too little," says Nicholas Lovell of business blogGamesbrief. "Instead of identifying clear market opportunities, focusing resources and worrying about delivery, too much money gives you the licence to meander, experiment and play, and the absence of direction can be masked by the money for a very long time."This clearly happened in the case of Realtime Worlds. The company meandered with both MyWorld and APB with no clear sense of direction. That makes sense on a Facebook game with a budget of $300,000, or the original budgets of Lemmings and GTA, but not any more."This idea of a rudderless development schedule tallies with other reports coming out of the company. When PC gaming site Rock, Paper Shotgun ran a story on the earlier RTW redundancies, someone claiming to be an ex-staff memberwrote in the comments section: "Certainly Dave J has great, strong, ambitious ideas for his games. But he's a big believer in letting the details emerge along the way, rather than being planned out beyond even a rudimentary form. For most of the lifetime of APB, he was also CEO of the whole company, as well as creative director. His full attention was not there until it late in the day.""There wasn't enough discipline," confirms our source. "We got all this money, and it made us relax, when really it should have focused our attention on making sure we had a really good approach to managing the project, to ensuring the design was exact what it needed to be, to focus testing early on, and just proving that we were doing the right thing, rather than taking the old 'it'll be done when it's done' attitude." And then suddenly, Electronic Arts, the game's publisher, wanted the game out. Not an unreasonable demand after five years in development.Last Tuesday, the administrators arrived at Realtime Worlds and from the reports Gamesblog has heard, the APB team was rounded up into the cafeteria and informed of the situation. Over the next 24 hours, staff were told whether they would be kept on or not. Most weren't. "It wasn't apparent that there had been any contingency planning," says one source. "We all expected APB to be this massive success, we all expected to be printing our own cash, a la Blizzard. I feel like our exec team got out of their depth – I don't mean that in a cheeky way, because we were all out of our depth, but it kind of felt like it was a train that was out of control – and had been out of control for a long time."Since then, anger and resentment have spilled onto the internet's many outlets. On his personal blog, under the headline,'Goodbye Realtime Worlds', ex-RTW staffer Luke Halliwell posted a measured and thoughtful summation of the situation:"I must say I was shocked at quite how quickly it went down in the end. It felt like we were being let go decently, and then BOOM – not getting paid anything, owed last month's wages, our notice periods, redundancy pay and unused holidays.  A substantial amount of money, all told."He later updated the article: "Turns out we got 2 days' pay!! Not much but better than the previously-expected nothing."In the comments section, his wife delivered a much more vociferous response:"Dave Jones and Ian Hetherington have pissed away millions, they are getting away with not paying over 200 employees for the work that they have done ... Moreover these very people have enough personal wealth to pay the money owed to the individuals and families whose lives they have left shattered, heck Dave could probably pay them all just by selling one of his beloved cars."It has to be said, though, that the animosity toward Jones is certainly not universal within the company. He's clearly liked and respected, and our APB source said that he spent Wednesday afternoon touring the building, apologising to staff: "One thing I've learned is, you shouldn't confused creative genius with shrewd business sense. But Dave was very visible and very upset. He feels bad about the effect this will have on people's lives."There are many question marks over the demise of this massive company. Why wasn't there a strict development structure in place? Why weren't the problems within APB spotted earlier and dealt with properly? How could the whole issue of latency, especially with an action game running predominantly on the server rather than client side, not have been adequately predicted?How could this happen?Well, it has happened before. The ambitious science fiction MMOG Tabula Rasa, created by another talismanic designer Richard Garriott, was delayed before its release in November 2007, having been in development since 2001. Barely a year later, the development team announced that the game would be shut down due to a lower than expected user base. There are obvious parallels. Surely, there were lessons to be taken?In the end, it would appear to be a story of hubris and mismanagement, of artistic vision clashing with the realities of 150 staff members working on a game that had no proven antecedents and no clear direction. What it had was confidence. "The truth is there was an arrogance," says our insider. "I think we all got caught up in it – not one of us can stand back and say we weren't a part of that." As a lot of reviews pointed out APB would have been an amazing game in 2006, or at least an amazing start of a game. But this is 2010, and smaller companies with greater agility are doing more interesting, coherent things in the massively connected gaming sector. Realtime Worlds was the dinosaur being eaten alive by insects.A few days ago one ex-employee tweeted about passing the office on the bus. The building looked weird, near empty, no one visible at their keyboards.The rumours arethat Ian Hetherington, the chairman of RTW, will put in a bid for the MyWorld IP. Perhaps someone else will come in for APB. It has those 130,0000 players, and there'sapparently a 1.4 patch readythat addresses some of the handling and shooting problems. And really, 130,000 isn't a disastrous start for an MMO. They usually take a while to grow – even World of Warcraft took almost six months to get to 1.5 million players. But when you've already spent $100m, time isn't going to be on your side.For a lot of the staff, however, it's too late. They will drift away, hopefully to other industry jobs, possibly abroad. Despite what someopportunistic politicianstried to claim in the aftermath of Tuesday's announcement, this one couldn't be put down to the lack of tax credits for the UK games business – Realtime Worlds had millions and millions of dollars in investment. But ironically, foreign developers may well benefit anyway, through quick-witted recruitment.However, these staff will be leaving behind a company they cared for and a game some of them worked on for six years; a game that may now disappear within months of its release. "That's the tragedy of it," says the APB team member we spoke to. "For me, it's not really about APB in the end, it's about all these people who have poured years of tremendously hard work into this thing. They were so passionate, so enthused, it should have been so much more. And in the end they walk away with nothing."Gamesblog was unable to contact members of the senior management team for their comments.
YouTube is to launch a free movie service after striking deals with US studios including Sony Pictures and UK service Blinkbox.YouTube, which already delivers TV through deals with Channel 4 and Channel 5, will initially make more than 400 titles available for free and on-demand.The new section,www.youtube.com/movies, is offering films ranging from horror titles, such as Night of the Living Dead, to 'classics' such as The Clan of the Cave Bear and even Bollywood hits."This is one of many efforts to ensure that people can find all the different kinds of video they want to see, from bedroom vlogs and citizen journalism reports to full-length films and TV shows," said the YouTube head of video partnerships, Donagh O'Malley. "We hope film lovers enjoy the range of titles in this free library, whether catching up on a mainstream hit or delving into the vast archive of classic films from decades past."The deal with Blinkbox, which charges from £1.99 for the rental of movies and TV shows, will see about 165 films made available for free. For Blinkbox, which will receive revenue from advertising around the films, the move to make content available for free is about building the brand and reaching new audiences.Titles will include Hotel New Hampshire, with Rob Lowe and Jodie Foster, and The Dark Side of the Sun, starring Brad Pitt."The size and scope of YouTube's audience is immense and this exciting tie-up allows us to reach film fans and potential users outside of our usual audience and helps us build on our already rapidly growing customer base," said the Blinkbox chief executive, Michael Comish.The YouTube US film service launched in April, with a mixture of free and paid film content, and the YouTube UK movie site may consider introducing paid models in the future.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Earlier this week, Electronic Arts revealed that ex-SAS soldier Chris Ryan is writing a prequel novel to its forthcoming shooter,Medal of Honor. During the Gulf War, Ryan was the only member of an eight-man team to escape from Iraq in the famed Bravo Two Zero mission. This gruelling experience formed the basis of Andy McNab's book, Bravo Two Zero, as well as Ryan's own, The One That Got Away."It is a real privilege to be involved in a game with such a heritage as Medal of Honor," he said. "Combining my experience as an SAS soldier in the Gulf War with missions from the videogame itself enabled me to create an authentic and respectful account of an elite soldier fighting in Afghanistan for Medal of Honor: The Book."Of course, Medal of Honor mostly follows covert missions undertaken by US Tier One operatives, so Ryan is a pretty good fit for the job. But which other well-known authors should be put to the task of writing video game tie-ins?Okay, I'm sure we've touched on this before, but with a wealth of interesting  games on the way, it's time to have another think. Personally, I'd go for Iain M Banks on Mass Effect, Cormac McCarthy on Red Dead Redemption, Ursula K. Le Guin on Bioshock, James Ellroy for LA Noire, or what the hell, maybe Bret Easton Ellis for Deus Ex: Human Revolution.So over to you – whichlivingwriters (let's keep it within the realms of possibility – however faint) would you choose? And for what games?
I was away yesterday so missed this, but thenewsthat the UK will be getting a new dedicated TV channel for games was worth mentioning. OK, we're not talking primetime here butGinx TVwill be launching in November on cable and satellite. The channel is initially concentrating on reviews but Ginx CEO Michiel Bakker said the channel was aimed at "light" gamers. MTV-style success is apparently the goal.Launching our channel in the UK, the world's second largest videogaming market, will propel Ginx to the big league.  Videogaming is the only massively mainstream entertainment genre without a dedicated channel. My ambition here, is to do for gaming what MTV did for music. Videogaming has broken through into mainstream entertainment, yet is thoroughly under-represented on TV.He has a point about the under-representation on TV. Gaming is mainstream, we all know that. Ok, let's say mainstream to anyone under 40 - but the point is valid. Games are just not that visible on TV. So why are there so few gaming shows on TV? Is it simply because watching someone else play a game is deadly dull? Have youtube reviews simply filled any need gamers had for video review? Personally I'd prefer they went retro - getPatrick Moore in giving out tips, that kind of thing. But what about you? Do you want a TV show about games? And if so what would make it work?
This photo comes up in a search for "enterprise software" on Flickr. Photo byoedipusphinxon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTurn Your iPad Into A Netbook Easily With This Nifty iPad Case &gt;&gt; App AdviceActually, it doesn't look bad.Gartner Says Demand for Highly Qualified Windows 7 Migration IT Personnel Will Exceed Supply in 2011 and 2012, Leading to Higher Service Rates &gt;&gt; GartnerWhich means they'll either have to speed up their PC replacement plans, upgrade existing PCs or look at "partial migration". But it will still be expensive, Gartner reckons, because everyone else will want to do it. &#10;&#10;In other words: bonanza coming for MCSEs! It's like 1999 for Cobol programmers!expected delivery dates?? - kindle Discussion Forum &gt;&gt; Amazon.co.ukWould-be Kindle owners seem to be upset at delays to their gratification. Seems Amazon is being as murky about delivery as total sales.1-in-4 worms spread through infected USB devices - Computerworld"A recent Panda survey of more than 10,000 small- and medium-sized firms found that 27% of those victimized by a malware infection in the last year reported that the attack had originated with infected USB hardware, primarily flash drives."Why Do Enterprise Applications Suck? &gt;&gt; Michael NygardAn oldie, from 2009, but still makes the interesting point that "they lack 'give-a-shitness'": "I think this one matters most of all. Commerce sites, Web 2.0 startups, IM networks... the software that people love was created by people who love it, too. It's either their ticket to F-U money, it's their brainchild, or it's their livelihood. The people who build those systems live with them for a long time, often years. They have reason to care about the design and about keeping the thing alive." Whereas enterprise software...I've found my software as cracked download on Internet, what to do? &gt;&gt; Stack OverflowIndependent developer seeks answers on coders' forum. Gets lots - though the first is probably the best, with real-world experience and examples and counter-examples.Text of the past 17 Apple event invites, v products introduced &gt;&gt; AAPLinvestorsThe best, by far, was the iPod nano one: the invite showed the jeans coin pocket. At the event, Steve Jobs reached into his and pulled out - rabbit from hat - the first iPod nano.A guide to following people on Twitter &gt;&gt; John AntoniosIf you need any help in deciding whether to follow someone on Twitter, it's now here. Or you could autofollow. Actually, could someone write a script to do this?Why Smartphone Adoption May Not Be as Big as You Think &gt;&gt; Mashable"We looked at some recent North American and European smartphone adoption stats to find out just how quickly, and where, the "future" is being adopted." However, there's a lot of future out in India, China and South America too - even while these numbers suggest that the UK (70% growth) is the fastest in Europe.CityCamp London: Gov 2.0 goes local &gt;&gt; CityCamp"CityCamp LDN will bring together London's leaders from all levels of government, business, academia and community organisations to reimagine the way in which technology and the web will shape the future of London." 8-10 October: get registering now. (You could hire a bike to get there.)Apple's Attention to Detail &gt;&gt; Flood LiteYou can either view Apple's use of an LED indicator which indicates the machine is sleeping by dimming and brightening at the same rate as a sleeping adult as great attention to detail - or you can think it's a trivial waste-of-time matter really not worth doing. What's your opinion?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
A tug-of-war intensified yesterday between America's top two computer makers, Dell and Hewlett-Packard, as the pair of hardware titans outbid each other in a billion dollar takeover fight for a hitherto obscure data storage firm, 3Par.Early on Thursday, Texas-based Dell slapped down an improved offer of $1.52bn for 3Par, topping a $1.5bn proposal tabled by HP three days earlier. But HP struck back after the close of markets on Wall Street, raising its bid to $1.6bn.The unusually aggressive head-to-head confrontation comes as the computer manufacturers jostle for position in the potentially lucrative market for so-called "cloud computing".3Par, which is based near San Francisco, offers flexible data storage solutions to companies that do not want to invest capital in owning their own servers. It is considered well placed to benefit from higher information technology spending when the corporate world eventually stages a recovery from the recession.HP's latest offer for 3Par is pitched at $27 per share, a significant premium on Dell's bid of $24.30. The auction began last week when Dell offered $18 in a deal initially accepted by 3Par's board. Financiers expressed surprise at the rapid upward march of the price."It's a very rich valuation," said Jeffrey Fidacaro, an analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group. "At what point does someone cry uncle? It's difficult because valuations don't seem to be making a whole lot of sense here. But then again, we don't know the revenue synergies they expect out of this."3Par has 670 staff but has lost money for much of its 11-year history. Admirers say it could cash in from a trend where organisations shift away from spending money on their own server hardware to having technology resources delivered over the internet by third-party suppliers according to need – known as "cloud computing".Toan Tran, a technology analyst at research firm Morningstar, said HP, the bigger of the two bidders, could be the hungrier: "At the end of the day, 3Par is worth more to HP than it is to Dell, given HP's existing enterprise hardware and services business."HP splashed out $13.9bn two years ago on Electronic Data Systems, bolstering its presence in business IT services. But it is hobbled by a lack of a permanent chief executive: its boss, Mark Hurd, was forced out earlier this month in a scandal over allegations of sexual harassment and improper expense claims.
