WikiLeaks has released more information on controversial commercial surveillance tools, criticising the German government for not blocking a “weaponised malware” developer from shipping its code to countries with regimes with poor human rights records.WikiLeaks’latest Spy Files publicationincluded some previously unreleased versions of the malware in question, produced by FinFisher, a German firm that used to be part of UK-based Gamma International.FinFisher can infect Apple OS X, Windows and Linux computers as well as Android, iOS, BlackBerry, Symbian and Windows Phone devices.The files, originally obtained by a hacker going by the namePhineas Fisherin August, should be used to improve detection systems to protect people’s PCs and mobiles, WikiLeaks said.The organisation also believes the files will help researchers uncover further human rights abuses related to FinFisher, which can be used to siphon off data from machines and spy on communications, from email to Skype.According to the leaks, FinFisher customers include law enforcement and government agencies in Australia, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Bosnia &amp; Herzegovina, Estonia, Hungary, Italy, Mongolia, Netherlands, Nigeria, Pakistan, Singapore, Slovakia, South Africa and Vietnam.This backs up data from Citizen Lab, a Toronto-based non-profit that focuses on protecting activists online, which last year releaseddetails on apparent use of FinFisher in 25 countries.The FinFisher suite of spy software was originally brought to light when documents were found in the offices of Egypt’s secret police after former president Hosni Mubarak was deposed.Since then, activists from Ethiopia and Bahrain, amongst other nations, claimed to have been targeted by governments using FinFisher.WikiLeaks said Germany should take action to stop the malware spreading. “FinFisher continues to operate brazenly from Germany selling weaponised surveillance malware to some of the most abusive regimes in the world. The Merkel government pretends to be concerned about privacy, but its actions speak otherwise,” said Julian Assange, WikiLeaks’ editor in chief.“Why does the Merkel government continue to protect FinFisher? This full data release will help the technical community build tools to protect people from FinFisher including by tracking down its command and control centres.”Assange’s organisation claimed FinFisher’s revenue from the sales documented in the leak amounted to around €50m (£40m), though Bill Marczak, a researcher from Citizen Lab, suggested this could have been over-estimated.FinFisher and its previous owner Gamma have previously claimed they only sold their products to responsible governments, though researchers and activists believe the firm has lied about its customer list. It had not responded to a request for comment at the time of publication.Claudio Guarnieri, an independent researcher who has been investigating FinFisher on behalf of Citizen Lab, told the Guardian the release should have a positive effect.“I think it’s a good release. Firstly because now it collects the material from the breach and make some sense out of the data, when nobody really made the effort to do some decent work around it.”Eric King, deputy director at Privacy International, also praised the release. “These new documents from Wikileaks give us greater insight into how companies like FinFisher and the governments they supply compromise our personal devices, and spy on the most private parts of our lives,” he said.“More transparency is needed to hold companies like FinFisher to account, as well as the governments purchasing such equipment. Without public scrutiny of the surveillance technology industry, activists will continue to be targeted by repressive regimes and the damaging practices of FinFisher will be allowed to continue unabated.”The wider fight against so-called “lawful interception” technologies continues. In the UK, Privacy International has been leading the charge, recently uncovering data implicating Swiss surveillance tech company Neosoft in “trying to equip and train a brutal government unit in Bangladesh”.•The digital arms race, and what is being done to fight it
Google’sadvisory councilheld its first two public consultations on 9 and 10 September inMadridandRome, inviting regulators, publishers and academics to discuss the outcome of the recent “right to be forgotten ruling” made by the European court of justice. One of 10 people on the council, Luciano Floridi is documenting the trip.The ruling by the European court of justice against Google has sparked a very consequential debate on the accessibility of personal information legally available online.When is it appropriate for a search engine to provide a link to truthful information about a person that a third-party has legitimately published online? And what is the best way of dealing with each request to remove from search results a link that refers to such information?These questions are the points of collision of two immensely important spheres of interest in our everyday life.On the one hand, there is the right to privacy. In our case, this means allowing past, truthful information about a person to sediment and let bygones be bygones, hence the “right to be forgotten”.On the other hand, there is the right to freedom of expression. In our case, this means the freedom to refer to, and access truthful information that is legally available online, hence the so-called “right to information”.Neither the “right to be forgotten” nor “the right to information” are actually a legal right, so both are misnamed. This already makes the debate complicated.The clash between privacy and freedom of expression is so significant that Google decided to set up an advisory council to understand the issue better, and discuss the best approaches to deal with it.Madrid was our first public consultation and our first test – we ran out of time, and I wish we had given the public more opportunity to ask questions. In Rome, where we introduced a deadline and stricter rules of interaction.Almost inevitably, both in Madrid and in Rome, we focused extensively on abstract issues such as the value of historical records, the equally fundamental nature of all human rights, or the statute of limitations. These are important, but they represent the framework, not the actual issues at stake.The two words most frequently used by all participants in the meetings were “complex” and “balance”, and they describe the situation well. The debate is complex because there are many elements interacting with each other.The actual ruling, with its pro and contra, including its inconsistency with the advocate-general’s opinion; the role of search engines as intermediaries or data controllers; the difference between availability and accessibility of information online; the so-called rights (to be forgotten, to information), the real rights behind them (privacy and freedom of expression), and the ways in which they are interpreted on the two sides of the Atlantic; the concepts of relevance and of public interest, both very slippery; the procedural uncertainty about who should decide which links are rightfully removed and who should be informed about it.Because the debate is complex, almost everybody in Madrid and in Rome thought that it requires a balancing act. However, the superficial agreement on the need for balance probably hides a deeper disagreement on what kind of balance may be needed. Let me use an analogy. Imagine you like French food but I like Italian food. We may find a balance by alternating between going to a French and to an Italian restaurant, or by going to a third restaurant that we both like, say Spanish, or perhaps to another restaurant that serves both French and Italian food. More complicated solutions are possible. During the consultations I had the impression that while most of us were keen on finding a balance, few had the same arrangements in mind.One of the questions I asked in Madrid concerned the shift, within our lifetime, from the duty to remember to the right to be forgotten. I did not get an answer. I hope the shift may be evidence that some of the most tragic wounds in our European history are now healed, but I am concerned that it may be a sign that we are tired of confronting our past mistakes and responsibilities.Either way, I suspect that our technologies and their “undo” facilities may have quietly formatted our expectations about how much it is actually reversible in real life and should be rightfully archived.• Luciano Floridi is director of research, and professor of philosophy and ethics of information, at theOxford Internet Institute, University of Oxford. He is a member of Google Advisory Council on theRight to be Forgotten. His last book isThe Fourth Revolution: How the Infosphere is Reshaping Human Reality (Oxford University Press, 2014)
One of the big challenges for children’s app developers is the reluctance of many parents to pay upfront for apps, even if they distrust in-app purchases.Could advertising be the answer? Ads as the funding source for children’s media is well established in the television and magazine industries, but apps have proved a tougher nut to crack for developers and brands alike.It’s not hard to put ads in a children’s app, but ensuring that they’re appropriate for kids – no gambling, premium subscription and adult-rated games for example – has been a challenge.British startup SuperAwesome is hoping to change that,releasing a new software development kit (SDK)for Android and iOS developers that it says will add child-safe ads to children’s apps with “a single line of code”.The company is pitching the SDK as “Stripe for kids advertising”, referring to the famously easy-to-integrate mobile payment technology.In this case, though, what developers are integrating are display and video ads, which SuperAwesome says are fully compliant with the US Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA) legislation that’s become the chief standard by which children’s apps are judged around the world.SuperAwesome claims that its advertising network already reaches more than 100m children a month in the UK, US, Australia and France, with brands including Mattel, Hasbro, Disney and Warner Bros advertising through it in apps from publishers including Rovio (Angry Birds), Outfit7 (Talking Friends) and ZeptoLabs (Cut the Rope).“Content developers can just drop in a single line of code and they immediately have a kid-safe, COPPA compliant advertising solution,” said SuperAwesome’s chief product officer Joshua Wohle, about the new SDK.“The kids advertising industry requires the highest standard of compliance and brand safety in the world,” added head of mobile Adam Holmes. “For all our brand partners, this means a more streamlined way of reaching this audience.”A company like SuperAwesome can divide opinion: sceptics may see a firm focused on showing ads to hundreds of millions of children on their most personal devices as decidedly un-awesome or super.If advertising is to play a greater role in the children’s apps world, however, the existence of a network focused purely on child-safe ads is a good thing, given some of the past mis-steps in this area.One of SuperAwesome’s clients, Outfit7, knows this better than most. In October 2012, adverts for payday lender Wonga offering “cash loans up to £400” werefound in its Talking Ginger app, while in February 2013, its Talking Friends Cartoons app carriedads leading to a £4-a-week ringtones and wallpapers subscription service.In July 2013, UK regulatorPhonepayPlus fined Australian firm CommandM PTY £250,000for a ‘misleading’ app selling £4.50-a-week premium rate subscriptions, which was advertised within a range of children’s apps.Then, in August 2014,PhonepayPlus fined French company Acetelecom £60,000for a premium rate “voice changer” service that was also advertised in children’s apps, charging £1 per minute for calls from children – some of which went on for more than 90 minutes.In cases like these, the children’s app developers didn’t strike individual deals with those advertisers. Instead, they made advertising space available within their apps to third-party mobile ad networks, which took responsibility for filling that inventory, without effective enough safeguards to bar inappropriate ads.SuperAwesome is hoping that its mobile ad network just for children will avoid these pitfalls, while also attracting the kind of big children’s brands who are considering shifting some of their ad budgets from trusted media like TV and print to apps.SuperAwesome chief executive Dylan Collins has argued publicly that advertising will be essential to the survival of responsible, original children’s apps developers, even if many are still focusing on paid rather than ad-supported apps.“We make less money in our mobile digital content than a lot of other sectors, and there is huge pressure on marketing costs. The cost of actually getting [content] to kids in a meaningful way has gone up. It’s a basic maths equation: our revenue has come down and our marketing costs have come up,” hesaid in a speech at the Children’s Media Conferencein July.“Fundamentally, the maths on that does not stack up. If you talk to kids’ apps developers, there’s not a single one who are not a little bit concerned about the sustainability of their industry over the next one, two, five years.”•It’s time more parents started paying for children’s apps
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhy Apple didn't use sapphire iPhone screens &gt;&gt; TIMETim Bajarin:Many have suggested that the decision not to use sapphire was the result of manufacturing issues – that with more time, Apple would have used sapphire screens for the iPhone 6. As I looked closer at the Apple announcement, and after looking more at the benefits and drawbacks of sapphire, it seems that Apple had good reasons to go with ion-strengthened curved glass (Gorilla Glass) instead of sapphire.While sapphire has been hyped as an alternative screen cover for smartphones, the continued use of strengthened glass has less to do with production issues and more to do with what smartphone manufacturers know about consumers, their preferences and, more importantly, how people actually use phones and what they're willing to pay for them.By the way, some reports stated that up until a few weeks before the iPhone announcement, Apple was going to use sapphire but dropped it because of yield issues. This is not true.FBI announces full operational capability of the Next Generation Identification System &gt;&gt; FBIAs part of NGI's full operational capability, the NGI team is introducing two new services: Rap Back and the Interstate Photo System (IPS). Rap Back is a functionality that enables authorized entities the ability to receive ongoing status notifications of any criminal history reported on individuals holding positions of trust, such as school teachers. Law enforcement agencies, probation and parole offices, and other criminal justice entities will also greatly improve their effectiveness by being advised of subsequent criminal activity of persons under investigation or supervision. The IPS facial recognition service will provide the nation's law enforcement community with an investigative tool that provides an image-searching capability of photographs associated with criminal identities.Yes, facial recognition. You read that correctly.Google's Web-video ambitions bump into hard reality &gt;&gt; CNETStephen Shankland:"Everybody is talking HEVC. VP9 doesn't even come up," said Dan Rayburn, a principal analyst at Frost &amp; Sullivan. "The industry has already selected HEVC."VPx's limited success shows that despite its technological depth and financial resources, Google has its limits. The company is able to influence computing industry standards through its control of both services that supply content and the Chrome and Android software used to reach those services. The video realm, though, is much broader than Google's Net-centric business, reaching out to cameras, processors, mobile phones, movies and TVs.Limited success doesn't mean doomed, though. Google can play a long game, and the company remains committed to improving VPx and bringing it to the Web, if not necessarily to the entire video industry."We have seen the benefits it has brought YouTube and promises for other video use cases like real-time communication," said Renganathan Ramamoorthy, the Chrome team product manager overseeing VPx. "We believe these benefits are material and the Web should share these benefits."Why Facebook is deleting drag queen profile pages &gt;&gt; TechCrunch"As part of our overall standards, we ask that people who use Facebook provide their real name on their profile," stated an email from a Facebook spokesperson. The real-names policy has been in place for a while, but it's not entirely clear why drag queens have been suddenly targeted en masse. Heklina was told by Facebook reps that it was just an algorithm that discovered the drag queens and started asking them to change their names.Facebook'sreal names policy pagestates, "We require everyone to provide their real names, so you always know who you're connecting with. This helps keep our community safe." This is problematic for the drag community. Heklina says queens often don't want their family or others to find them by their real names in order to protect themselves from bigotry and harm.As commenters point out, if this is going to be applied, it should be applied universally. So when will this be applied to Lady Gaga, Katy Perry, Elton John, and many actors (who use stage names)?On the 'Gamergate' stuff &gt;&gt; David Hillif you want to know why there are prominent journalists right now talking about how gamer culture is toxic, and how gamers as a label are dead, this is why. Because even if you're rational, passionate, and wanting good things, your voice is being drowned out by loud, hateful, toxic people.A couple of days ago, I posted an email from the San Francisco Police Department verifying a police report placed by Anita Sarkeesian. Why? Because a muckraker accused her of lying, and drummed up a BUNCH of hate. His message had over six hundred reshares. His thread had dozens of people talking about how she needs to be imprisoned, how she needs to be shot, and how she's... you get the picture. So, I fact-checked. And I posted the results of that fact-checking. Did I get six hundred people recanting their threats, insults, and accusations? No. I got a couple dozen people threatening me, and a fuckton of people insulting me for DARING to fact-check a journalist. When, mind you, the Gamergate movement is supposedly about holding journalists accountable. Do you know how many messages came up to the effect of, "Oh. I shouldn't have jumped the gun and accused her without the facts?" None. None at all.The problem is that this is now turning into a fight (almost, but thankfully not quite, literally) between a group fuelled by irrational faith and trolls on one side - who believe anything that fits their case, even when people like Hill disprove it - and rationalists. The trouble is that faith, being irrational, doesn't reduce in the face of rational argument.Yes, we're being bought by Microsoft &gt;&gt; MojangWhy did you sell Minecraft?Minecraft has grown from a simple game to a project of monumental significance. Though we're massively proud of what Minecraft has become, it was never Notch's intention for it to get this big.As you might already know, Notch is the creator of Minecraft and the majority shareholder at Mojang. He's decided that he doesn't want the responsibility of owning a company of such global significance. Over the past few years he's made attempts to work on smaller projects, but the pressure of owning Minecraft became too much for him to handle. The only option was to sell Mojang. He'll continue to do cool stuff though. Don't worry about that.There are only a handful of potential buyers with the resources to grow Minecraft on a scale that it deserves. We've worked closely with Microsoft since 2012, and have been impressed by their continued dedication to our game and its development. We're confident that Minecraft will continue to grow in an awesome way.Jay Rosendescribesthis blogpost as "about as reassuring as a ransom note."Big publisher bashing again with fictional facts &gt;&gt; The Shatzkin FilesMike Shatzkin:The estimable Clay Shirky has writtena lengthy piece called "Amazon, Publishers, and Readers"on medium.com saying, essentially, that an Amazon-dominated world would be an improvement over the Big Five "cartel"-dominated world of publishing we have today. This is an apples to oranges comparison. The Big Five are not nearly as broad a cartel as Amazon — which reaches way beyond the consumer books they publish — is a monopsony. Amazon touches much more of the book business than the Big Five publishers do. To make his case, Shirky recounts some very questionable history and employs some selective interpretation to get from his own impression ofthe current Hachette-Amazon dispute(about which he says "Amazon's tactics are awful, the worst possible in fact") to a completely different conclusion.There's a lot of rebuttal going on around this topic.Google to unleash Android on emerging markets &gt;&gt; FT.comAmid the noise from the relentless stream of expensive flagship smartphones that have been launched in recent weeks by Apple and others, Google has been quietly setting its sights on a much larger market of consumers who have yet to buy their first smartphone.The US technology group will this week set out to establish the smartphone standard for the next billion mobile phone users in emerging markets by launching a low-cost platform in partnership with local manufacturers.In New Delhi on Monday, Google will reveal the first handsets to be produced as part of the initiative that has become a personal project for Sundar Pichai, the Chennai-born boss of its operating system Android.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
Apple has responded to criticism of its deal togive away U2’s new album to iTunes usersby making it easier for them to delete the tracks, if they don’t want them.The Irish band released the album – Songs of Innocence – last week as a free download for iTunes users, as part of Apple’s launch event for its new iPhones and Apple Watch.However, anyone who had turned on the “Automatic Downloads” feature in their iTunes software, iPhone or iPad got it pushed to their device whether they wanted it or not, sparking complaints when people discovered it was not as easily removed.As of tonight, iTunes users can delete the tracks more easily byclicking on this link, which takes them to a dedicated removal page for Songs of Innocence:“If you would like U2’sSongs of Innocenceremoved from your iTunes music library and iTunes purchases, you can choose to have it removed,” explains the web page. “Once the album has been removed from your account, it will no longer be available for you to redownload as a previous purchase.”The new removal page for U2’s Songs of Innocence album.Photograph: PR“Some customers asked for the ability to delete ‘Songs of Innocence’ from their library, so we set up itunes.com/soi-remove to let them easily do so,” Apple spokesperson Adam Howorth told The Guardian. “Any customer that needs additional help should contact AppleCare.”The move addresses complaints from (non) fans and critics alike, with New Yorker writer Sasha Frere-Jones the most prominent in the latter category. “Lack of consent is not the future,”he wrote, while advising U2 not to “shove your music into people’s homes”.Rapper Tyler, the Creator expressed similar sentiments in rather-more-earthy language:GET OFF MY FUCKING PHONE. YOU COULDNT COME UP WITH AN ACTUAL MARKETING IDEA? FUCK@U2I DONT WANT YOU. FUCK BONO. I DIDNT ASK FOR YOU IM MAD&mdash; Tyler, The Creator (@fucktyler)September 12, 2014U2’s manager Guy Oseary defended the move,in an interview with Mashable. “It’s a gift from Apple. If someone doesn’t like the gift, they should delete it,” he said, in response to criticism. “We just want to share it with as many people as possible. If you don’t want it and you don’t need it, delete it.”That was exactly what many iOS users discovered they couldn’t do through the usual slide-to-delete mechanism in their devices’ Music app, although they could visitthe “Purchased” screen within the iTunes desktop softwareto hide it from their collections, as a workaround.•Has rock’n’roll finally sold out with U2’s Apple stunt?•Stop whining about the U2 album: hating Bono is more annoying•U2’s Apple launch: what it means for the band and companyApple has yet to announce how many copies of Songs of Innocence have been downloaded since the album was made available on 9 September, other than declaring its aim to make it free for all 500m-plus active iTunes customers.Three days later, technology news site Recode claimed thatU2’s album had been downloaded more than 2m times, although it did not specify whether this included multiple downloads by individual fans to their various devices, or what percentage of these downloads were automatic, rather than manual.The giveaway may have been controversial, but it appears to have stimulated interest in U2’s back catalogue. Within days of the Songs of Innocence release,26 of the band’s albums were appearing in Apple’s iTunes Top 200 chartin the US.However, an aggressive price promotion on the back catalogue – many of the albums were dropped to $5.99 on the US store – has played a part in that too.It may now be easier to delete Songs of Innocence from your iTunes library, but withApple reportedly planning a $100m marketing campaignaround the album, there will surely be a few million more free downloads before the giveaway period runs out on 13 October.U2 performing at Apple’s launch event.Oseary has already signified more plans for U2 and Apple to work together. “We’re working on other things as well with Apple that have to do with how music is heard and innovation,” hetold trade magazine Billboard.“There’s a lot of things still to come that are really interesting. The band really wants people to engage with albums, they want them to support the art form of artwork and lyrics and video content and just get into their music in a much different way than an MP3 file. This is a long relationship.”That relationship is spurring Apple’s rivals in the digital music world to stress their own credentials as partners for younger artists.Google has beengiving away a free download of Demi Lovato’s last albumthis month through its Google Play store, while streaming service Spotify has issued a flurry of announcements about dance star Calvin Harris over the last week.First, it revealed thathis Summer single was its most-streamed track of the summer; then announced thathe’d passed 1bn streams overall on its service; and finally claimed that his Blame track had become the first song ever to bestreamed more than 10m times in a single weekon Spotify.Apple, Spotify and rivals are gearing up for a battle over the coming months and years for exclusives from popular artists – or in Spotify’s case, a battle to convince artistsnotto give lengthy exclusives to Apple.U2’s album is an iTunes-only affair until 13 October at the earliest, but many artists are picking and choosing complementary partnerships. Harris, for example, has been feted by Spotify, but also played Apple’s iTunes Festival in London this month.•Apple iTunes exec: ‘Creatively, we really believe in albums’
Facebook is keen to take on YouTube as a distribution network for online video, and has reportedly been courting some of the latter’s top multi-channel networks.MCNs including Maker Studios and Collective Digital Studio have been testing uploading some of their shows directly to Facebook,according to the Wall Street Journal.Its report claims Facebook has hired staff in Los Angeles to court these companies and their stars, and also that the company is working on new advertising units to compete with the revenues they would receive from YouTube.The WSJ quotes a pair of MCN executives praising the distribution tests, which have been running for about six months. “The traffic is very, very promising,” said one. “We’ve seen tremendous reach,” added the other.Facebook joins Yahoo in hoping to compete with YouTube as a distribution channel for MCNs and their stars. In March,Yahoo was reported to be trying to sign up individual YouTubersand their networks for its Yahoo Screen service.The competition is no surprise. Analyst firm Jefferies Franchise Note recently claimed that YouTube’s advertising revenueswill rise from $5.9bn in 2014 to $8.9bn in 2016, as more brands divert money away from broadcast TV to online video.Research firm eMarketer expects YouTube to make more money from advertising this year – $7.2bn. The site currently attracts more than 1bn viewers a month watching 6bn hours of video, having spawned an array of new stars, and MCNs to manage their channels.The top 100 YouTube channelsgenerated 9.46bn video views in July 2014, up 80.5% compared to the same month a year before, reflecting the growth for the biggest channels on Google’s video service.Even for Facebook, competing with YouTube is a tall order, but the social network’s own burgeoning ad business may be its main selling point for creators: in the second quarter of 2014 alone,Facebook made $2.68bn from advertising, up 67% year-on-year.The company has other levers to pull, too. The Wall Street Journal’s report includes an interview with YouTuber Jack Vale, who claims that Facebook posts designed to send people to watch videos on YouTube “tend to perform poorly in Facebook’s algorithm”.The implication is that uploading videos directly to Facebook may reach a wider audience, even if it is early days to judge how the likely income will compare to YouTube.•Why the future of Facebook is (almost) all about smartphones•How does Facebook decide what to show in my news feed?
Some of the world’s most famous authors escalated their heated dispute with Amazon on Monday, publishing a letter to retailer’s board warning of the “ugly history” of blocking book sales.Amazon and publishing giant Hachette have beenlocked in a six-month disputeover the pricing of e-books that has led Amazon to delay shipment of Hachette authors, refuse pre-orders and institute other tactics aimed at damping the publisher’s sales.Bestselling authors including Malcolm Gladwell, Stephen King, Michael Pollan and Donna Tartt are among the Hachette authors who have protested Amazon’s move.On Monday Authors United, which represents the writers, released a letter it is sending to Amazon’s 10 board members that claims the retailer’s tactics have driven down Hachette authors’ sales by at least 50% and in some cases as much as 90%.The group points out thatRussell Grandinetti, Amazon senior vice-president and the man seen as the driving force in the dispute, has stated that the company was “forced to take this step because Hachette refused to come to the table”. Grandinetti has also said that “authors are the only leverage we have”.“As one of the world’s largest corporations, Amazon was not ‘forced’ to do anything. This is an obvious fact. We all have choices. Amazon chose to involve 2,500 Hachette authors and their books. It could end these sanctions tomorrow while continuing to negotiate. Amazon is undermining the ability of authors to support their families, pay their mortgages, and provide for their kids’ college educations. We’d like to emphasize that most of us are not Hachette authors, and our concern is founded on principle, rather than self-interest,” Authors United writes.“We find it hard to believe that all members of the Amazon board approve of these actions. We would like to ask you a question: Do you as an Amazon director approve of this policy of sanctioning books?“Efforts to impede or block the sale of books have a long and ugly history. Would you, personally, want to be associated with this? We feel strongly that such actions have no place in a common commercial dispute. Amazon has other negotiating tools at its disposal; it does not need to inflict harm on the very authors who helped it become one of the largest retailers in the world,” the group writes.Amazon’s board is chaired by company founder Jeff Bezos and also includes Jamie Gorelick, deputy attorney general during the Clinton administration, Thomas Ryder, former chief executive of Reader’s Digest and Patricia Stonesifer, the former head of the Gates Foundation.Authors United’s 1,100 members have until Wednesday to sign the letter. Then it will be sent to Amazon’s board members.
Microsofthas announced itsbuyout of Minecraft developer Mojangfor $2.5bn. It is thought the founders of the Swedish developer felt the pressure of running a company which generated $326m last year.The founders, Markus Persson, Carl Manneh and Jakob Porser, are all leaving the company - presumably with a fruitful pay off - and Microsoft has sought to reassure fans that the huge community built around the game will continue.“Minecraft is more than agreat game franchise– it is an open-world platform, driven by avibrant communitywe care deeply about, and rich with new opportunities for that community and for Microsoft,” said Microsoft’s chief executive, Satya Nadella.But what exactly is Minecraft? And why does it have such a vast community of ardent fans? Here’s how the Guardian has covered the game in the past.Minecraft reviewRead Simon Parkin’soriginal Minecraft reviewfor PC and Mac back in December 2011.The world is uniquely yours. All players share the 1x1 blocks that comprise its mountains, valleys, lakes and clouds, but their arrangement is randomly assigned to you alone. Day one and your goal is mere exploration, charting the terrain around you, a carefree sort of cartography as you feel out the contours of your domain, marvel at the scenery and build a mind map of natural landmarks to set your bearings by.Then night falls and monsters rise; dead-eyed zombies, skeletons and camouflaged creepers, whose kindergarten path-finding AI has them pursue you with night-terror single-mindedness.”A screengrab from Minecraft.Photograph: MinecraftMinecraft: Here’s one I made earlierThe Observer’s Tom Lamontdelves into the Minecraft community, and asks them what all the fuss is about…A Scottish sixth-former made a stunningreplica of the Winter Palace in St Petersburg. Chinese history enthusiasts laboured to reconstruct Beijing exactly as it hadappeared in 1751. I visited, exploring this Qing-dynasty city via monorail, and learned that construction was due for completion in “July 2023”. Was it wise, I wondered, while riding a pretty route from the Gate of Divine Might to the Palace of Heavenly Purity, to plan to invest so much time?Adam had surrendered months to Minecraft. “Picture my parents,” he said. “In their 60s, lovely people … They don’t understand atallwhat I do with my leisure time. It’s a hard thing to show people. ‘Hey! Come over and look at this giant virtual thing I built!’ For some people, that abstraction never makes sense. It’s just numbers.”How Minecraft has bewitched 40 million of usJohn Naughton exploreswhy two Minecraft manuals are among the top 20 books sold so far in 2014.The only people in your household who will be astonished that two computer game manuals are selling like hot cakes are the adults. This is because they don’t know what every child from the age of six upwards knows, namely thatMinecraftis the most absorbing and intriguing gaming idea since David Braben and Ian Bell created Elite in 1984.What’s even more astonishing (for adults anyway) is that Minecraft has none of the CGI faux-realism of the blockbuster computergamesmarketed by Electronic Arts et al. Players are not compelled to act out the crazed, violent, misogynistic scripts dreamed up for them by programmers working for multimedia conglomerates. In Minecraft, there’s no realism and no script.”Minecraft at 33 million users – a personal storyKeith Stuart writes about his sonZac’s connection with Minecraft. Zac was diagnosed on the autistic spectrum.Like a lot of children with an autism spectrum condition, he loves Minecraft. From the moment I downloaded the Xbox 360 edition and handed controllers to him and his brother Albie, they have been addicts. At first, they simply trudged across the rolling landscapes, randomly attacking the sheep, cows and ducks that graze each Minecraft world. They would throw together weird hovels, filled with random doors and windows, huge gaps in the walls, bizarre jutting extensions, like nightmarish sets from a German expressionistic horror movie.Now, they construct immense palaces and giant inhabitable robots – usually made out of gold and glass. They are the Liberaces of virtual architecture. They explore the game’s growing systems; they avidly download all the regular updates which add new features, new creatures, new narrative possibilities – they devour them all.”Markus Persson is the man behind the Mojang AB.Photograph: EMMA JOHANSSON / DN / SCANPIX/Press Association ImagesHow a game with no rules changed the rules of games foreverTracy McVeigh onMinecraft’s rapid rise to popularity.Minecraft is not just a global sales phenomenon: it is being hailed as a turning point in technology, a Cinderella story for the internet age. There are 4.5m YouTube hits about a game that had no marketing budget.Academics study it, and this weekend there was a bidding war over the UK rights to a book detailing Persson’s own life and his development of the game from the summer of 2009 to its appearance in its current form in 2011. The same year Mojang hosted a conference in Las Vegas calledMinecon, attended by 4,500 people from 23 countries. It is now to become an annual event.What’s the best type of machine for playing Minecraft?Jack Schofieldtakes you through platform options.Almost any mainstream device – tablet, games console, laptop or PC – will run Minecraft, bearing in mind that only PCs run the full version. Almost any current PC (Windows, Linux or Mac) should be able to run Minecraft at the lower settings. However, running the full version with textures, smooth lighting, clouds etc and a high level of resolution at a high frame rate can challenge even expensive PCs. It all comes down to finding the best compromise between performance and price.My general advice is to buy something with a graphics card rather than “integrated graphics” (where the graphics chip is included with the processor). The graphics card seems to be the single most important factor in Minecraft performance. Also, aim for a PC with a 64-bit operating system and 4GB or more memory, and make sure you install the 64-bit version of Oracle’s Java. (Minecraft is a Java program.)Fans play video games on Xbox One consoles in New York.Photograph: LUCAS JACKSON/REUTERSMe, my son and MinecraftWriter Jane Costello gets to grips with her son’s obsession with Minecraft – byhaving a go herself.Familiarising yourself takes a little time but once you get going – and have worked out the controls – being able to run, fly, swim and build is undeniably absorbing. I also finally manage to construct something, a slightly disappointing shipping container-type affair that explodes Wiltshire’s assertion that it’s “virtually impossible to build something that looks terrible in Minecraft”. Still, I’m enjoying it, I can’t deny it. Aged eight, I’d have loved it every bit as much as my son does.Jane Costello at home with her son, Otis, playing Minecraft.Photograph: Christopher Thomond/Christopher Thomond
Minecraft creator Mojang is being sold toMicrosoft, the studio has confirmed. According to a statement released by the Swedish developer on Monday afternoon, the purchase price is $2.5bn.Mojang spokesman Owen Hill and Microsoft have separately sought to reassure fans of the multimillion selling building sim that work on the game will continue unaffected.In the statement, Hill suggested that the pressure of running the company, which generated $326m in revenue last year, became too much for the founders, Markus Persson (known by his online username, Notch), Carl Manneh and Jakob Porser. All are leaving the company.Minecraft has become aglobal phenomenonsince its launch in 2009 as an incomplete “alpha” project. Since then, the game, which provides users withrandomly generated environmentsin which to craft all manner of buildings, has sold over 50m copies on PC, smartphone and consoles.In its announcement of the deal, Microsoft claimed that Minecraft had been downloaded more than 100m times on PC alone since 2009 – a figure that includes free downloads – while pointing out thatXbox 360owners have played the game for more than 2bn hours in the last two years.According to Mojang’s statement, the focus of the company will now be on supporting Minecraft with new content and features:“Minecraft will continue to evolve, just like it has since the start of development. We don’t know specific plans for Minecraft’s future yet, but we do know that everyone involved wants the community to grow and become even more amazing than it’s ever been. Stopping players making cool stuff is not in anyone’s interests.”Mojang has assured fans that the purchase won’t necessarily mean that versions of the game running on non-Microsoft platforms will be scrapped.“There’s no reason for the development, sales, and support of the PC/Mac, Xbox 360, Xbox One,PS3,PS4, Vita, iOS, andAndroidversions of Minecraft to stop. Of course, Microsoft can’t make decisions for other companies or predict the choices that they might make in the future.”Microsoft has confirmed this, saying that the company “plans to continue to make Minecraftavailable across all the platformson which it is available today: PC, iOS, Android, Xbox and PlayStation.”“We are going to maintain ‘Minecraft’ and its community in all the ways people love today, with a commitment to nurture and grow it long into the future,” added Phil Spencer, head of Xbox at Microsoft.When the deal closes, Mojang will sit within Microsoft Studios, alongside the developers ofHalo,Forza,Fableand other franchises.It’s likely however, that Microsoft will seek to leverage Minecraft in both the console market, where its Xbox One machine is lagging behind rival PlayStation 4, and in the smartphone sector, where itsWindows Phonefalls a distant third behind iOS and Android.“Gaming is a top activity spanning devices, from PCs and consoles to tablets and mobile, with billions of hours spent each year,” said Microsoft chief executive Satya Nadella in a statement.“Minecraft is more than agreat game franchise– it is an open world platform, driven by avibrant communitywe care deeply about, and rich with new opportunities for that community and for Microsoft.”While ceasing Minecraft development on other platforms would give Microsoft exclusive control over one of the world’s biggest game brands, such a a tactic would have huge repercussions amid the game’s highly vocal community.“Microsoft’s challenge will be to maintain the spirit of Minecraft while developing the franchise in a commercially meaningful way,”wrote games industry analyst Piers Harding-Rollsrecently. “With around 40 employees at Mojang, this is the sort of acquisition which can easily get lost in a huge organisation like Microsoft, and this factor is probably the main threat to longer term success.”For Persson, the founder most closely responsible for the early development of the game, the deal represents a chance to escape the responsibilities of managing a global phenomenon. “I’m not a CEO,” hewrote on his blogon Monday. “I’m a nerdy computer programmer who likes to have opinions on Twitter. As soon as this deal is finalized, I will leave Mojang and go back to doing Ludum Dares and small web experiments.“If I ever accidentally make something that seems to gain traction, I’ll probably abandon it immediately.”The deal underscores the shifting attitudes towards the giants of Silicon Valley. In March 2014 after Facebook announced the acquisition of virtual reality firm Oculus, Perssoncancelleda planned version of Minecraft for the company’s Rift headset, saying that “Facebook creeps me out”. But Microsoft, once a byword for hated multinational computing firm, elicited no such reaction.As such, the deal confirms the Redmond-based firm’s reinvention as a largely enterprise-focused company with one major successful consumer-facing division: Xbox. The company will be hoping that the success to date of Minecraft is only the beginning for a firm whichcould end up being“the 21st century version of Lego”. If it does reach that scale, then $2.5bn would be a steal.We have approached both Mojang and Microsoft for comment.•How Minecraft has bewitched 40 million of us
In the wake of Apple’s live event last week, there’s been some understandable finger pointing at Apple Watch. Unspecified battery life, a watch whose thickness means it doesn’t slip under the sleeve, the price. But that’s what you get with first-generation technology. It will get better with time, so let’s not waste time fretting here.What does deserve more attention is the criticism Apple received for its apparent lack of a clear use case for Apple Watch, and the subsequent reaction from many that they don’t see why they would need one.This sort of critique would be familiar to many, including the inventors of the telephone. The radio. Even the colour TV. And it’s certainly very familiar to Apple. This sort of “why?” take-down question always tends to be chucked at product launches that make radical departures from what came before.Why do we do that?One slightly depressing reason is that in an impatient world, the quickest way to form a view is to cross your arms and tell the world you’re not that impressed. Stephen Fry bemoaned this behaviour after the launch of the iPad in 2010.The other reason, which is a lot more important to consider, is that it really isn’t that easy to clearly position radical new products within the current world order. Especially when this new thing is more platform than product, and that platform hasn’t been built on yet.Given this was Tim Cook’s first big launch and it clearly lacked Steve Jobs-style logic for how Apple Watch fits into the world, this lack of positioning left many people wondering if Apple had skipped the product strategy bit. Could this be more of a punt than Apple’s usual carefully considered, patient plans?Obviously that’s nonsense, so this post will provide a view from my company, The App Business, on what the Apple Watch is, why there are so many unanswered ‘why’ questions, and why Apple announced it in this way.The answer turns out to be the huge, transformative opportunity for millions of app developers around the world.So, what is the Watch? The answer is staring us in the face.As is typical with an Apple product launch, while the world struggled to find the hidden code, the answer was printed in big bold letters at the top of Apple’s press release: “Apple’s most personal device ever.” Apple uses the word “device” because it doesn’t have the baggage of “computer”, but make no mistake – this is a very personal computing device and its eventual impact will be bigger than any personal computer that’s come before it.Apple and Cook telegraphed this by hosting the event at the Flint Center in Cupertino and kicking off the event by looking back at the two other radically new computers that Apple launched there: Macintosh and iMac. Remember, Apple chooses its keynote words and behaviours very carefully and deliberately.To be fair, a lot of people picked up on the personal aspect – but they didn’t understand what Apple really means by “most” personal. ABC News’ exclusive interview of Tim Cook and Jony Ive dug in on the plus-two million watch/strap/face combinations that enable personalisation, but Cook and Ive said that this was something they’d only grasped very recently. And even if Apple did plug the range of combinations here during the keynote, customisation is clearly not what they mean by “most personal device ever.”The type of personalisation Apple is talking about is the personal context this device will acquire from the wearer because it is on their skin constantly (well, except when it’s charging). Apple Watch will understand who you are (authenticated via skin contact), where you are (via the iPhone’s GPS), what you are doing (via gyroscope, accelerometer, and apps), and even how you are feeling (via body monitoring technologies).This will make it the most personal and powerful computer ever because it will understand more about your context and how to meet your needs than any other computer before it.That’s kind of cool – but how’s a watch going to meet my needs?The big idea here isn’t just the watch. It’s also the “internet of things”, or what we at TAB call the “programmable world”. This is the next mega-era of computing, and in this era all objects will be online and ready to serve you automatically, based on an understanding of your needs. And that’s where Apple Watch and wearables come in.As an incredibly personal device, Apple Watch will understand each and every one of your needs, including those your brain can’t recognise yet, and it will message the programmable world to address them intelligently and automatically.Use cases include everything from the obvious coffee machine that starts brewing as you soon as you step out of bed, to the doctor that pre-emptively understands your heart is at risk, and the perfect bedroom lighting scheme that’s figured out how to get you to sleep fastest. These are just some obvious examples, and it’s currently easiest to imagine its impact in the home and on your health and that’s why Apple also launched HealthKit and HomeKit.We understand that the first-gen watch will still leave a lot of the heavy lifting to the iPhone 6, but the two devices are going to get along nicely to start with. And make no mistake, just as the phone replaced the desktop at the centre of your digital “hub”, the watch will replace the phone … in due course.To sum up, what the Watch is is pretty simple: Apple’s most personal device ever (like they said). And its personalisation powers are rooted in its ability to get under, or rather on to, your skin. As a result it can understand your needs and automatically program the world to meet them.So why did Cook skip the product strategy slides and not share some more compelling use cases?In the build up to the keynote, a bunch of people did some very smart analyses of Apple’s previous product launch keynotes and exactly how Steve Jobs set up the big reveal.Typically, Jobs spent a good chunk of time talking about an old category that was broken and then introduced a radically simple product that fixed it. Apple had benefitted from being patient enough to sit on the sidelines while such category formed and then failed, and then Apple came in best (rather than first) to fix it and clean up.But this launch was different.Cook just played a video, then came back on stage arms aloft, and then the guy from Adobe did an OK-ish demo. And this made a bunch of people scratch their heads. Was there no Jobs-style logic because there was no case for this product? Was there no category take-down because there was no problem that needed fixing? Had Apple uncharacteristically hurried the launch of this?No, they hadn’t. This wasn’t a product launch. It was aplatformlaunch. And its success requires developers to develop ideas that are beyond even Apple’s wildest imagination.Sure Apple could have probably done a better job of explaining the virtues of this intimate, wearable canvas; and could have done better inspiring the world with the potential of its radical new interface and haptic (touch) feedback. But that’s kind of difficult when you don’t have app examples (nor Steve Jobs), and they kindly leave the challenge of coming up with the apps to us lot in the app business.That’s why the Apple’s app demos and “use cases” were a bit of a let down. The same happened with the iPhone App Store launch. With both products, Apple simply showed apps for the existing computing model on the new device. With iPhone it was “Look, the eBay website is now an app!”, with the watch it was “Look, Maps is now on a small screen!”.My conclusion here is that the reason there are no compelling use cases quite yet is because they haven’t been figured out yet. So you can either sit on the sidelines doubting its potential, or roll up your sleeves and figure out how to create value. That’s why Apple launched it early and many months before the products hits the shelves: to inspire developers to get developing fast so that it launches with the full force of the App Store behind it.The first rule of wearables: they need to be wearableTo be a highly successful platform, Apple – or rather developers – need hundreds of millions of people to wear the Watch. Sure, a lot of people today don’t wear watches, but fortunately hundreds of millions do, and more still could, for good functional and aesthetic reason.So while Apple may not have a crystal-clear proposition for why millions of people should buy this thing as a wearable computer – quite yet – they do have an off-the-shelf, proven marketing strategy for getting hundreds of millions of people to put this time-telling device on their wrist in order to attract developers: seductive, aspirational watch marketing.And just look at the team they assembled to help them take a crack at a more deliberately fashionable type of marketing - something pretty foreign to an Apple more used to launching technology products on plain white backgrounds.Come to think of it, just the collection of “fashion” people on the Apple team is insane, and only the sort of thing Apple (and likely its stock options) could pull off. You’ve got the former CEO of Burberry, arguably the great fashion success story of the past decade. The former CEO of Yves Saint Laurent, one of the greatest brand names in the history of fashion. Then there’s Marc Newson, the other greatest industrial designer alive today. And there’s more: Nike Fuelband’s leading designer jumped ship, TAG Heuer’s sales VP joined the team, and obviously Dr Dre brings a little street cred to the endeavour too. What a lineup – and that’s just the fashion people on the team.This explicitly fashionable marketing strategy is the polar opposite of Google Glass.Both Apple Watch and Google Glass are going to fundamentally change the way people live on planet Earth – eventually. But Google decided to make this a part of the brand’s story right out of the gate, and scrambled to fix the fashion bit after. That doesn’t work with wearable technology. If you launch a product as unfashionable as Google Glass, you’re going to have a hard job ever turning that around.Apple realised that fashion isn’t just important; it can actually be the number one driver for selling the device in the first place – and if they get it right, it can be a pretty robust formula for growing that developer-attracting installed base.It’s funny to compare Google Glass’s early adopter marketing programme and the mocking imagery of “white men wearing Glass” with Apple’ssultry photography of guys and girls kissing after a sweaty work out. Jesus. What would Jobs have said? I don’t think he would have recognised it as an Apple ad. But that’s the point. Cook has actually made a very brave, and strategic leap: to market the watch as something fashionable in order to get millions of people wearing it.And once millions of people have it on their wrists, and it’s all juiced up with insane personal context, well, developers and end-users alike are going to be blown away with what the watch becomes.So how long until it gets traction?It’s pretty hard to guess the trajectory of new product categories, but as ever with Apple, I’ll bet that we’ll be surprised by the pace of its takeoff.And we can also be very sure of one more thing: there is no time like now for individuals, organisations and businesses to start figuring out how they can create value on this new platform.Make no mistake, this is an entirely new computing platform and it’s more personal than anything before. Dwell on that thought, just for a moment. These chances don’t come around often, but we’ve just been given another one and it’s why we created The App Business. We sure as heck can’t wait to take this on.Daniel Joseph is founder and strategy director ofThe App Business. He previously wrote aboutiOS 7 and WWDC 2013.
Dropbox received 268 requests for user information from law enforcement agencies in the first half of 2014, the company has revealed in its updated transparency report.The company also disclosed that it received 37 requests for information from outside the United States, explaining that “at this time, we require non-US governments to follow the Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty process or letters rogatory process so that a US court will issue the required US legal process to Dropbox”.In 2013, the company required 90 requests from outside the US over the whole year.Published biannually for the first time, the report also shares information on how many national security requests Dropbox has received from the US government.But, in keeping with other firms, Dropbox has only been allowed to disclose the existence of these letters in an nonspecific aggregation: the most information it can share is that it received “0-249” letters, which affected “0-249” accounts.“While that number is small compared to our 300 million users,” says Bart Volkmer, Dropbox’s legal counsel, “we treat all the requests we receive seriously and scrutinize them to make sure they satisfy legal requirements before complying. We also push back in cases where agencies are seeking too much information or haven’t followed the proper procedures.”Those requests translated into the company handing over content 103 times, and “non-content” – which drop-box defines as “subscriber information such as the name and email address associated with the account; the date of account creation and other transactional information like IP addresses” – was handed over a further 80 times.The company also emphasised its commitment to notifying users of any governmental request for their data. “Government agencies keep asking us not to notify users of requests for their data, even when they are not legally entitled to do so,” the company says. “If we receive a request that comes with a gag order, we’ll inform requesting agency of our policy and let users know about the request unless the agency provides a valid court order (or an equivalent).”The transparency report is in its third year, but it hasn’t prevented attacks from advocates such as Edward Snowden, who called the company “hostile to privacy”. “Dropbox is a targeted you know wannabe PRISM partner,”he told the Guardian in July 2014. “They just put … Condoleezza Riceon their board… who is probably the most anti-privacy official you can imagine.”•Dropbox adds new sharing features as paying businesses reach 80,000
Destiny has become the biggest ever launch of a new video game series in the UK, according to official sales monitor, Chart-Track.Launched on Tuesday, the “shared world” online shooter charted straight at number one in the UK all-formats game chart, knocking Ubisoft cyberpunk thriller Watch Dogs off the top.Activision has alsoclaimed in a press releasethat the title is the global games industry’s biggest ever franchise launch. The publisher has sold $500m worth of copies through to retailers and console bundles – it is not yet known how many copies have actually been bought by consumers. To be the most successful new IP launch, it will have to have shifted more stock than previous record holder Watch Dogs, which sold 4m units in its first week,according to Ubisoft.Chart-Track also released a breakdown of UK sales data between the four machines the game is available on: PS3, PS4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One:PlayStation 4: 46% shareXbox One: 36%Xbox 360: 14%PS3: 4%The figures show a 50/50 split between Xbox and PlayStation platforms, despitea deal by Sonyto ensure the PS3/PS4 versions of the game dominated pre-release advertising.The game has also attracted mixed reviews from the gaming press, with an average score of 75% on the influential reviews aggregation site, Metacritic. Scores of 6/10 from popular sites, Gamespot, Polygon, The Escapist and Giant Bomb have aligned closely with a current average user score of 6.4/10.Critics have derided the overly solemn narrative, limited environments and conventional game mechanics. However, there has also been praise for the well-executed collaborative gameplay, which allows players to take on story missions together. New downloadable content will start to arrive in December.Developed by Bungie, the studio behind the Halo series of Xbox shooters, the game is the result of a 10-year publishing deal with Activision, and has seen significant investment. At a talk in May, the publisher’s CEO Bobby Kotick claimed to have committed $500m to the game – although it’s likely he meant that figure as an investment over the next ten years rather than an initial outlay.Whatever the specifics of the figure, if sales get close to the retail sell-through figure Activision has publicised, the company – which already boasts $2bn franchises in the form of Call of Duty and Skylanders – could well break even within one month.
In 1993, first-person shooter Doom was a groundbreaking game. In 2014, it’s being used by ethical hackers to demonstrate security vulnerabilities in connected devices.Specifically: printers. During his talk at the 44Con conference in London, Michael Jordon from Context Information Security proved he could easily compromise the Canon PIXMA printer – popular for homes and small businesses alike – by making it run Doom.From the exploitation standpoint, hacking the machine was trivial, as Jordondiscovered that the device has a web interface with no username or password protecting it.On initial inspection, this interface was of little interest, only showing ink levels and printing status. But it soon became apparent a hacker could use this interface to trigger an update to the machine’s firmware - the underlying code that is essentially the heart and soul of the printer.An outsider could thus have changed settings on the printer to convince it to ask for updates from a malicious server rather than Canon’s official channel.Jordon took advantage of what he described as “terrible” encryption protecting the firmware to add some tweaks to its code, enabling him to control the machine from afar.A malicious hacker could have discovered what documents the printer was handling, or started issuing commands to take up resources. If it belonged to a business, they would also have had access to the network, on which to carry out further exploitation.Doom? Jordon used the first-person shooter as the basis for his presentation to the white-hat hacker audience at 44Con, to make it more interesting. The graphics may have been slightly dodgy, but the game running on the Canon PIXMA was still, definably, Doom.The point of the project was to prove that machines most would not normally expect to be hacked can be valuable to those looking to breach networks.“If you can run Doom on a printer, you can do a lot more nasty things,” Jordon told the Guardian. “In a corporate environment, it would be a good place to be. Who suspects printers?”Canon has promised a fix, after working closely with Context. “We intend to provide a fix as quickly as is feasible,” the company said.“All PIXMA products launching from now onwards will have a username/password added to the PIXMA web interface, and models launched from the second half of 2013 onwards will also receive this update, models launched prior to this time are unaffected. This action will resolve the issue uncovered by Context.”Context has been exposing various flaws found in unexpected places over recent months. It has previously shown how to hack into an internet-connected toy bunny, a smart light bulb and an IP camera to prove such vulnerabilities were easily hackable.Jordon doesn’t believe manufacturers of such “smart” technologies are giving enough attention to security. “The maturity isn’t there,” Jordon added.•Animal hackers: War Kitteh sniffs out insecure Wi-fi networks
It’s time for our weekly roundup of the best newiPhoneand iPad apps and games to have emerged on Apple’s App Store.As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app.Want more apps? Browse previousBest iPhone and iPad appsroundups on The Guardian. And if you’re looking for Android apps instead, browse the archives of the weeklyBest Android Appsroundups.APPSAsk Me Anything (Free)This is an official app from Reddit for its Ask Me Anything (AMA) interviews, which have a habit of teasing interesting answers out of celebrities of all kinds. Well,most of the time. You can read existing AMAs, with their question-and-answer threads helpfully reformatted for faster browsing. And when an AMA is taking place, you can ask questions via the app too.iPhoneNosy Crow Jigsaws (Free + IAP)British publisher Nosy Crow makes marvellous picture-books, and equally marvellous book-apps. Its new release is different though: a collection of digital jigsaw puzzles using artwork from its print and app releases. They’re bought using aparent-friendly system of in-app purchases, although puzzles for apps you already own are unlocked automatically.iPhone / iPadPremier League Away Days (Free)One for football fans in the UK, this: an official Premier League app that aims to make away matches less of a slog. Expect stadium guides; recommendations for hotels, pubs and restaurants; travel information and ticketing details, as well as digital vouchers.iPhoneYahoo News Digest (Free)This app started as an iPhone app called Summly, which automatically summarised news stories in mobile-friendly bitesized chunks. It was bought by Yahoo then relaunched, and now it’s expanded to Apple’s tablet, complete with weekly videos from Katie Couric, the US news broadcaster recently poached by Yahoo.iPad (already on iPhone)This Is All Yours (Free)This app is one for fans of Alt-J, the Mercury Prize-winning band who are returning with their second album This Is All Yours. The app is a way to unlock and listen to its songs from specific locations in the real world: a musical treasure hunt, of sorts. Fans are encouraged to leave messages about the tracks for others to find too.iPhoneMonocle 24 (Free)Monocole is many things: a magazine, online store and radio service. This app focuses on the latter aspect: a well-designed way to listen to live shows, as well as those that have been recently broadcast. Expect current affairs, culture and business, with plenty of listenable experts.iPhoneLondon Review of Books (Free + IAP)Here’s the first Newsstand iOS app for the London Review of Books, with new issues released every two weeks with plenty of thought-provoking longform criticism of books, and the world that spawned them. Individual issues cost £3.99, or you can pay £74.00 for an annual subscription.iPhone / iPadEmojli (Free)If you find emoji tiresome, skip ahead quickly. This is an emoji-only messaging app, where conversations take place solely through the medium of little cartoon icons. Props to The Wire for its “there’s a messaging app worse than Yo” review – proudly published in the App Store listing. But with the right friends, this is fun.iPhone / iPadMyCarCost by What Car (Free)No emoji here. Instead, this is a serious tool from What Car magazine, which lets you browse information on how much a secondhand motor is likely to cost you – not just in the initial price, but in servicing costs, tax and fuel bills.iPhoneKalley’s Machine Plus Cats (£1.99)Children’s app publishing is a family business for Jon, Carrie, Corbett and Kalley Alexander, whose debut app is based on a drawing by (then) four year-old Kalley. It’s a charming digital picture-book tale of a girl and her machine, invented purely to stop her father from commuting to work. And the cats? They’re thrown in (not literally) for fun.iPhone / iPadAngry Birds Stella.Photograph: PRGAMESAngry Birds Stella (Free + IAP)Grease’s Pink Ladies now have competition in the form of Stella and her fellow new Angry Birds, in this latest game from Rovio. It’s the usual bird-slinging action with some new twists in the heroines’ superpowers, and some excellent level design. Is it an ‘Angry Birds for Girls’ though?Read Rovio’s views on that.iPhone / iPadMikey Boots (£1.49)If you’ve played developer BeaverTap Games’ previous releases Mikey Hooks or Mikey Shorts, you’ll know to expect something polished and fun with latest app Mikey Boots. It’s a platform game spread across 42 challenging levels, with neat controls and plenty to discover.iPhone / iPadSpider-Man Unlimited (Free + IAP)Publisher Gameloft’s latest Spider-Man game is an endless runner, although predictably it throws in some web-slinging and leaping too. The game is presented in a stylised comic-strip form, and structured into “issues” that come with a different supervillain boss each time.iPhone / iPadAll Star Quarterback (Free + IAP)We Brits have been going gaga for New Star Soccer’s mix of sporting action and off-the-field career progression for some time. Now American Football is getting a similar game, albeit with much more 2014-style visuals. You play a quarterback, charged with getting game-time, winning matches and splashing your cash.iPhone / iPadDiamond Digger Saga (Free + IAP)The latest Saga from Candy Crush maker King: this sees you matching colourful diamonds, creating gaps for more colourful diamonds to fall down into. But there’s also water flowing on each level, with your job being to make matches to guide it to the exit. It’s pretty fun to play.iPhone / iPadValiant Hearts: The Great War (£2.99 + IAP)The first world war has been a regular presence in media of all forms this year, commemorating the hundredth anniversary of its start. Now Ubisoft has released this: part game and part graphic novel, based on letters sent during the real war. Gameplay and history mix in seamlessly, with additional episodes available as in-app purchases.iPhone / iPadNerf Hoops (Free)Years ago, developer Backflip had a monster hit with its rubbish-chucking Paper Toss game. Now it’s taking the idea of flicking objects at targets into a branded partnership with Hasbro: a Nerf-themed basketball flicking game that’s perfect for whiling away the odd spare minute or three.iPhone / iPadWolfblood - Shadow Runners (Free)Here in the UK, the CBBC channel is airing a new series of teen-wolf (note, adults, not Teen Wolf) drama Wolfblood. It’s got its own spin-off game: an endless runner that sees you dodging and smashing obstacles. In a clever touch, new levels will be released to synchronise with the weekly TV episodes.iPhone / iPadSuper Monkey Ball Bounce (Free + IAP)As someone who has loved Super Monkey Ball on various consoles and devices down the years, its reinvention as a free-to-play Peggle clone is distinctly worrying. Still, I can see how it would appeal to some players: bouncing monkeys through screens of bananas and platforms.iPhone / iPadKitty Powers’ Matchmaker (£1.99)Finally, a dating romance game, but you’re not doing the actual dating. Instead, you play drag-queen matchmaker Kitty Powers as she tries to pair up some distinctly un-polished clients. Clever social features see friends becoming part of the action too.iPhone / iPadThose are our picks, but what have you been enjoying on iOS this week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section.•40 best iPhone and iPad games this year (so far)
The Motorola Moto 360 is the flagship Android Wear smartwatch and the first with a round screen that looks more like a traditional watch than a geeky gadget.Like every otherAndroid Wear watchit connects to an Android smartphone or tablet via Bluetooth and has very little functionality without that tether. It can tell the time, set alarms and timers, show steps and heart rate, or your agenda for the day. But that is about it.When connected to a smartphone, notifications ping from the phone to the watch with a vibrating alert, allowing wearers to see who’s calling, chatting, emailing or any other notification.Navigating via swipes is easy. Right to left opens more options like skipping tracks or sending dictated replies to Hangouts, left to right steps back through the menus and swiping upward reveals more. Swiping down mutes the notifications.Wireless chargingThe watch charges in a small wireless dock in about an hour but will also charge on any Qi wireless charging pad.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Moto 360 comes with a small inductive charging dock for over night charges. It will also charge on any Qi wireless charger, including the Google Nexus charging pad and others.A complete charge takes about an hour and the watch displays a night screen with the time and a charging indicator when docked. It cannot be charged with the screen off, which could be an issue at night as the watch is quite bright.Painless wearingThe watch is no bigger than a large man’s watch.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Moto 360 is the size of a large man’s watch with a 46mm diameter and 11.5mm depth – but not as large as the super-sized watches popular with footballers and racing drivers. It has a leather strap and a smooth stainless steel back, is comfortable to wear and light on the wrist, weighing 49g. By way of comparison the Samsung Gear Live weighs 59g and the LG G Watch 63g.Unlikethe G Watch, the Moto 360 doesn’t make my wrist sweat and I soon forgot that I was wearing it. The 360 blends in with clothing, looking much more like a watch than other smartwatches: it is a smartwatch masquerading as a classic time piece rather than a piece of technology ostentatiously strapped to the arm.The Moto 360 on a small woman’s wrist.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianHeart rate monitorUnlike the Gear Live, the Moto 360’s heart rate monitor will periodically take readings, recording patterns and telling the wearer whether they are sufficiently active.Users can manually monitor their heart but the watch automatically samples their heart rate and can prompt the wearer to be more active.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianUnfortunately the data cannot be exported for use in other apps and the heart rate monitor cannot be turned off.Flat-tyre screenThe main difference with other smartwatches is the circular screen. It is a flat tyre shape, with a little squared-off section at the bottom housing an ambient light sensor for automatically adjusting the backlight. Most other Android Wear smartwatches do not have automatic brightness adjustment.No bezel makes the watch look like it’s all screen and with a good selection of attractive watch faces making it look and feel expensive.The screen shows scheduled meetings around the dial, turning red when the time nears.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianWoeful batteryThe Moto 360 looks great, works well and is comfortable to wear but its battery life is poor. Unlike most Android Wear watches, the screen cannot be kept on all the time, instead dimming when the wrist is moving, before switching itself off.The “ambient display” mode can be switched off, which saves battery but also makes it harder to glance at the time, requiring a complete lift of the wrist (rather than a small movement), a tap on the screen or a press of the button on the side to light the screen.The ambient display on the left, the fully lit display on the right.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianWith the ambient display on, using auto-brightness and using the watch to count steps, the 360 lasted from 7.30am till 9.30pm – 14 hours – before dying. That was not long enough to see me from my commute to bed time, which is inexcusable.With step-counting turned off, the battery lasted from 7.30am till 11pm with 15% left. With ambient display mode turned off it lasted even longer but was much less useful as a watch: often when I tried to read the time with a quick glance it was not lit.The faces on the Moto 360 are all very good, with several takes on a traditional analogue watch, some modern dials and a customisable digital face.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPriceAt £200 the Motorola Moto 360 is currently the most expensive Android Wear smartwatch, and will be available in the UK from early October.VerdictThe round display suits Android Wear’s card-based interface more than the square watches – Google clearly designed the big round buttons and cards with a circular face in mind.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianI really wanted to love the Moto 360 but battery life that cannot see you through a full day’s use is unacceptable. LG’s G Watchwill last two dayswith the screen on all the time, so it can be done.Turning some features off made it last a day – step-counting I can live without – but unless you are prepared to take a charger with you, the Moto 360 will have to stay at home on weekends away.The rest of the watch is great. Voice recognition is significantly more accurate and less prone to interference from background noise than the G Watch or the Gear Live, the screen is bright and crisp, the watch faces are attractive and it feels like an expensive time piece rather than a chintzy gadget.The bezel-free design is a big step forward for smartwatches and Android Wear suits a circular face. Make it last two days and they would have a winner on their hands. Instead the 360 is great until it dies prematurely.The Moto 360 goes on sale in the UK in October, which gives Motorola half a month to improve the software to last at least a day with all features active. I will continue to use it to see if the battery life improves and update this review accordingly.Pros:beautiful round screen, light, comfortable to wear, stainless steel case, heart rate monitor, waterproofCons:poor battery life, have to disable features to last a day, cannot charge the watch without the screen onOther reviews•Google smartwatches review: LG G Watch, Samsung Gear Live and Android Wear•Samsung Gear 2 and Gear Fit review: smartwatches on the up•Sony Smartwatch 2 review: a second screen for your Android phone•Pebble smartwatch review: doesn’t try too hard, but does what you need•Adidas miCoach Smart Run review: a personal fitness trainer on your wrist
It’s time for our weekly roundup of the best newAndroidapps and games to have emerged on the Google Play store.As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app.Want more apps? Browse previousBest Android Appsroundups on the Guardian. And if you’re looking for iOS apps, browse the archives ofBest iPhone and iPad appsroundups instead.APPSAcompli Email &amp; Calendar (Free)Acompli is one of a mini-flurry of apps trying to make your email life more organised (and, indeed, less stressful). In this case, it’s also a calendar app and tool for sharing files with colleagues. Everything works together well, and there’s a Gmail-esque feature that tries to sort important from less-important emails.Premier League Away Days (Free)One for football fans in the UK, this: an official Premier League app that aims to make away matches less of a slog. Expect stadium guides; recommendations for hotels, pubs and restaurants; travel information and ticketing details, as well as digital vouchers.Bring! Shopping List (Free)My search for the perfect shopping list app has been going on for a few years now, with Bring! one of the likeliest contenders in recent times. It’s easy to use to set up a list then mark items as they go into the trolley, with clever features for shared households, and even Android Wear smartwatch support.Ask Me Anything (Free)This is an official app from Reddit for its Ask Me Anything (AMA) interviews, which have a habit of teasing interesting answers out of celebrities of all kinds. Well,most of the time. You can read existing AMAs, with their question-and-answer threads helpfully reformatted for faster browsing. And when an AMA is taking place, you can ask questions via the app too.Nimbus: travel with sound (Free)This is certainly the first app to make a selling point out of “the inside of a zebra carcass as it is being eaten by vultures”. It’s a really interesting idea though: sounds recorded by natural historian Chris Watson as he travels the world, and now turned into an app with 14 audio tracks and three related games.Boxer (Free + IAP)More email: Boxer works with a wide range of webmail services as well as IMAP and POP3 accounts, while linking in with social networks and cloud storage services too. The idea: a fast, efficient email app that helps you reduce your inbox to gleaming emptiness (hopefully) while keeping a to-do list of tasks.HomeTube (Free + IAP)Many children love YouTube, and many YouTube videos are distinctly unsuitable for children. Several apps are tackling this problem, with HomeTube the latest. It serves up child-safe videos only, with parental controls to help you fine-tune its recommendations, and set it as a homescreen replacement if desired.This Is All Yours (Free)This app is one for fans of Alt-J, the Mercury Prize-winning band who are returning with their second album This Is All Yours. The app is a way to unlock and listen to its songs from specific locations in the real world: a musical treasure hunt, of sorts. Fans are encouraged to leave messages about the tracks for others to find too.Castround with Twitter (Free)It’s been possible to browse tweets from people nearby for a long time, through various apps, even if it seems like a bit of a novelty feature for day-to-day use. Still, Castround looks like an interesting new spin on the idea, with its map-based interface good for local Twitter activity, or buzz from any location you want to check in on.Blinkist (Free + IAP)The most thought-provoking app on this week’s list: Blinkist promises 15-minute snapshots from non-fiction books: doing for longform writing what aggregation apps like Yahoo News Digest are doing for news. Here, the summaries come from actual humans, rather than algorithms.Angry Birds Stella.Photograph: PRGAMESAngry Birds Stella (Free + IAP)Grease’s Pink Ladies now have competition in the form of Stella and her fellow new Angry Birds, in this latest game from Rovio. It’s the usual bird-slinging action with some new twists in the heroines’ superpowers, and some excellent level design. Is it an ‘Angry Birds for Girls’ though?Read Rovio’s views on that.KittenTaxi (Free + IAP)There are many things to love about KittenTaxi: its plot (bank-robbing cats); its inventive idea of viewing a racing game from in front of the car; and its pencil-drawn graphics style. A real breath of fresh air.Spider-Man Unlimited (Free + IAP)Publisher Gameloft’s latest Spider-Man game is an endless runner, although predictably it throws in some web-slinging and leaping too. The game is presented in a stylised comic-strip form, and structured into “issues” that come with a different supervillain boss each time.Appointment with F.E.A.R. (£1.99)More superheroes in this “interactive graphic novel” from publisher Tin Man Games, which has made a succession of similar apps. This one is based on Steve Jackson’s Appointment With F.E.A.R. game-book, which perfectly suits its new form as a digital product.All Star Quarterback (Free + IAP)We Brits have been going gaga for New Star Soccer’s mix of sporting action and off-the-field career progression for some time. Now American Football is getting a similar game, albeit with much more 2014-style visuals. You play a quarterback, charged with getting game-time, winning matches and splashing your cash.Diamond Digger Saga (Free + IAP)The latest Saga from Candy Crush maker King: this sees you matching colourful diamonds, creating gaps for more colourful diamonds to fall down into. But there’s also water flowing on each level, with your job being to make matches to guide it to the exit. It’s pretty fun to play.Wolfblood - Shadow Runners (Free)Here in the UK, the CBBC channel is airing a new series of teen-wolf (note, adults, not Teen Wolf) drama Wolfblood. It’s got its own spin-off game: an endless runner that sees you dodging and smashing obstacles. In a clever touch, new levels will be released to synchronise with the weekly TV episodes.Block Fortress (£1.23 + IAP)Block Fortress looks alotlike Minecraft, on the surface, but layered on top of its blocky building is a proper tower defence game, as you build your base then defend it from onrushing monsters. If you ever wished Minecraft was a bit more... killy, then it’s worth a look.CounterSpy (£3.05)The latest game from PlayStation Mobile – yes,thatPlayStation – CounterSpy is a mobile spin-off from the PS4, PS3 and PS Vita game of the same name: a sneaky side-scrolling action game with impressive graphics. More than just promotional fluff.Super Monkey Ball Bounce (Free + IAP)As someone who has loved Super Monkey Ball on various consoles and devices down the years, its reinvention as a free-to-play Peggle clone is distinctly worrying. Still, I can see how it would appeal to some players: bouncing monkeys through screens of bananas and platforms.Those are our picks, but what have you been enjoying on Android this week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section.•40 best Android games of 2014 (so far)
Apple may have finallyunveiled its first smartwatch, but what about its other long-rumoured new product category: a television? Chief executive Tim Cook’s latest interview will fuel that speculation.“TV is one that we continue to have great interest in – I choose my words carefully there – TV is one of those things that, if we’re really honest, it’s stuck back in the seventies,” said Cook, in an appearance on the US Charlie Rose show.“Think about how much your life has changed, and all the things around you that has changed. And yet TV, when you go in your living room to watch the TV, or wherever it might be, it almost feels like you’re rewinding the clock and you’ve entered a time capsule and you’re going backwards. The interface is terrible. I mean, it’s awful!”Cook’s company already has one product trying to improve that interface: its Apple TV set-top box, which now has more than 20m users.Apple has long been rumoured to be working on an actual television, though, with the wait for its introduction thought to be less about the device and more about the necessary licensing deals with broadcasters and producers.“I don’t want to get into what we’re doing in the future. We’ve taken stabs with Apple TV, and Apple TV now has over 20m users, so it has far exceeded the hobby label that we placed on it,” Cook told Rose.“We’ve added more and more content to it this year, so there’s increasingly more things that you can do on there. but this is an area that we continue to look at.”In the interview, Cook also talked aboutApple’s $3bn acquisition of Beats Electronicsearlier in the year, praising co-founders Jimmy Iovine and Dr Dre as “creative geniuses” and citing the company’s Beats Music streaming service as a key factor in the deal.“This subscription service, some people think they’re all alike. Well, let me tell you, I went into the thing sceptically. Not into the acquisition: into their service, because Jimmy had told me how great it was,” said Cook.“One night, I’m sitting playing with theirs versus some others, and all of a sudden it dawns on me that when I listen to theirs for a while, I feel completely different. And the reason is: they recognised that human curation was important in the subscription service. The sequence of songs that you listen to affects how you feel.”When Beats Music was announced in early 2013, its founders hired a team of editorial staff drawn from the radio and music journalism industries to create a range of playlists for subscribers to listen to once it launched.“Right now, these things are all utilities: ‘Give me your credit card, here’s 12m songs, and good luck’. We don’t think that’s gonna stick,”said Iovine at the time.However, rivals like Spotify and Rdio have also been investing heavily in similarly-human teams of curators, even if their work was unappreciated by Apple’s chief executive in his evening of streaming-music research.“I couldn’t sleep that night, so I was thinking ‘we need to do this’,” Cook told Rose.After Apple announced its smartwatch,Cook told US broadcaster ABC Newsthat the company had started work on the product after the death of its former chief executive Steve Jobs. However, in his interview with Rose, he stressed that Jobs remains a key influence on Apple as a business.“If you think about the things that Steve stood for at a macro level: he stood for innovation, he stood for the simple not the complex. He knew that Apple should only enter areas where we could control the primary technology,” said Cook.“All of these things are still deep in our company. They’re still things that we very much believe.”•What did we learn from the Apple Watch and iPhone 6 launch?
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle to unleash Android on emerging markets &gt;&gt; FT.comAmid the noise from the relentless stream of expensive flagship smartphones that have been launched in recent weeks by Apple and others, Google has been quietly setting its sights on a much larger market of consumers who have yet to buy their first smartphone.The US technology group will this week set out to establish the smartphone standard for the next billion mobile phone users in emerging markets by launching a low-cost platform in partnership with local manufacturers.In New Delhi on Monday, Google will reveal the first handsets to be produced as part of the initiative that has become a personal project for Sundar Pichai, the Chennai-born boss of its operating system Android.CausalImpact: A new open-source package for estimating causal effects in time series &gt;&gt; Google Open Source blogWe've been testing and applying structural time-series models for some time at Google. For example, we've used them to better understand the effectiveness of advertising campaigns and work out their return on investment. We've also applied the models to settings where a randomised experiment was available, to check how similar our effect estimates would have been without an experimental control.Today, we're excited to announce the release ofCausalImpact, an open-source R package that makes causal analyses simple and fast. With its release, all of our advertisers and users will be able to use the same powerful methods for estimating causal effects that we've been using ourselves.Our main motivation behind creating the package has been to find a better way of measuring the impact of ad campaigns on outcomes. However, the CausalImpact package could be used for many other applications involving causal inference. Examples include problems found in economics, epidemiology, or the political and social sciences.The CausalImpact R package implements a Bayesian approach to estimating the causal effect of a designed intervention on a time series. Given a response time series (e.g., clicks) and a set of control time series (e.g., clicks in non-affected markets, clicks on other sites, or Google Trends data), the package constructs a Bayesian structural time-series model with a built-in spike-and-slab prior for automatic variable selection. This model is then used to predict the counterfactual, i.e., how the response metric would have evolved after the intervention if the intervention had not occurred.How wearables helped dramatically reduce injuries for the Seattle Sounders &gt;&gt; CITEworldNancy Gohring:the Catapult GPS device produces 350 columns of data for every exercise the players do in practice. Tenney and Ramineni use that data plus others to create three metrics for each player after each practice, measuring what Tenney calls velocity load, body load, and heart rate. Velocity load shows speed and distance the player runs and body load shows the twisting and turning and changing direction.The result is a simple visual that the coaches can look at to determine how hard the players worked in practice that day. If they see that a particular player's heart rate was a lot higher than the others during a particular exercise, they might learn that the player needs more training in that kind of exercise or should do less of that exercise in the days before a game, based on the optimal heart rate the coaches want the players to reach during that time.The data has helped Tenney convince the coaches that it's not a good thing when players stay after practice to work longer.Android security mystery - 'fake' cellphone towers found in US &gt;&gt; We Live SecurityRob Waugh:Despite its secure OS, Les Goldsmith of the handset's US manufacturer ESD found that his personal Android security handset's firewall showed signs of attack "80 to 90" times per hour.The leaks were traced to the mysterious towers. Despite having some of the functions of normal cellphone towers, Goldsmith says their function is rather different. He describes them as "interceptors" and says that various models can eavesdrop and even push spyware to devices. Normal cellphones cannot detect them – only specialized hardware such as ESD's Android security handsets.Who created the towers and maintains them is unknown, Goldsmith says."Interceptor use in the US is much higher than people had anticipated," Goldsmith says.  "One of our customers took a road trip from Florida to North Carolina and he found eight different interceptors on that trip.  We even found one at South Point Casino in Las Vegas." [Editor's note: Goldsmith has asked us to stress that the tower was actually in the vicinity of the casino, not within the casino itself.]Their existence can only be seen on specialised devices, such as the custom Android security OS used by Cryptophone, which includes various security features – including "baseband attack detection."Baseband hacking? Worrying.What if Apple Pay succeeds? &gt;&gt; Naofumi KagamiLet us assume that Apple Pay does succeed and the business model plays an important role in it. Since all previous attempts have failed, this will set the standard for mobile payments. Merchants and credit card companies will expect new entrants to abide by store-no-data policies that are similar to Apple Pay.Google will naturally have a hard time with this. Accepting a store-no-data policy directly conflicts with their basic business model. It will be interesting to see how Google will manage the situation.If Google hesitates to provide a store-no-data policy mobile payment solution, other companies might step in. For example, Samsung might add a mobile payment feature to theirSamsung Wallet app. Samsung has a large share of the high-end Android market, and hence has access to a large proportion of the customers who are attractive for a mobile payment scheme. They can also incorporate specialised hardware (secure enclaves and/or biometric sensors) which will enhance security.Moreover, Samsung has no business model conflict in adopting a store-no-data mobile payment scheme. Like Apple, Samsung makes money by selling phones. They make money when their phones are better and have more meaningful features than the competition. In fact, Samsung would very much like to differentiate itself from the Android competition by including any compelling features that Google will hesitate to provide. If they can make money while doing this, that's wonderful for them.Now that would be something.Uber drivers "strike" — and switch to Lyft — over fares and conditions &gt;&gt; BuzzfeedA group of Uber drivers, who say they number about a thousand, are attempting to organize a strike against the booming taxi company over complaints of falling fares and unfair working conditions.The drivers, who are mostly comprised of SUV and black car drivers, have planned a protest outside of the Long Island City Uber Office on Monday morning after refusing to drive for the service — and in some cases, switching to rival Lyft — Thursday, Friday and Saturday. This is the second protest the group, called Uber Drivers Network NYC, will be staging in a week against the company.Travis Kalanick shrugged.Apple Pay to invade China, with help from UnionPay &gt;&gt; MarketWatchChina UnionPay and Apple have agreed to cooperate to bring the US tech company's new smartphone payment option to China, a source with knowledge of the matter says.On Tuesday, Apple unveiled its new line of smartphones — the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus — and a payment option linked to the devices called Apple Pay. The source said UnionPay, a state-backed bank-card association that runs a settlement system for cards bearing its logo, has already agreed to let Apple Pay link to its cards.If the companies follow through on the deal, iPhone users in China could connect their bank cards to the devices and complete transactions at stores…A deal between China UnionPay and Apple Pay will intensify competition with third-party payment companies like Alipay, an industry insider said. That competition also involves two rival technologies: the near-field communication (NFC) type Apple uses versus quick-response (QR) codes, which have suffered a setback in China…A source close to UnionPay said the company and its partners studied different types of payment models but held off from using QR codes because of fraud concerns. UnionPay has also tried to use NFC technology in cooperation with China's Xiaomi Inc. and South Korea's Samsung Group, to no avail.A deal between UnionPay and Apple could work, considering the large number of iPhone users in China, the industry insider said.Apple iPhone 6 Plus cannot compete with local tablet brands in India, say experts &gt;&gt; The Economic Times…tablets are expected to sell mostly within the enterprise segment. Karan Thakkar, senior market analyst at IDC, forecasts tablet sales to grow in India over the next two quarters, helped by festive buying and enterprise projects, including a few big government projects in education that are in the pipeline.However, for the year, tablet sales are expected to fall in India. Shah of Counterpoint said his firm expects tablet shipments to drop 2% in 2014 compared with a 37% rise last year. The Indian tablet market recovered in Q2 of 2014 with shipments rising 9% sequentially at 0.86m units, after a 33% plunge in the previous quarter.February 2013: The Apple iWatch &gt;&gt; askTogWorth re-reading; Bruce Tognazzini, who long ago worked at Apple, was one of the first people - perhaps through little murmurs? - to suggest Apple was working on a smartwatch. Much of it is dead-on, though others - such as charging, battery life and "no buttons" - aren't. Not bad for two years ahead of release, though.Exclusive: Nokia, Windows Phone brands to be replaced by Microsoft, Windows &gt;&gt; Geek on GadgetsAli Al-Qudsi:we can confirm that Microsoft will be completely dropping the "Nokia" branding from their devices, leaving "Lumia" as the hero brand for upcoming devices. In fact we understand that the Lumia 830 and Lumia 730 will be the final two devices to launch with "Nokia" branded on the phone.  Future devices will most likely carry the "Microsoft" name along with "Lumia".Smart move.Furthermore the document also reveals that Microsoft is shying away from placing the Windows Phone logo next to their devices in promotions and advertisements, and will instead place the standard Windows logo alongside them (sans the  "Phone"). In fact we understand, from a source with knowledge of the plans, that this is part of the preparation to leave the "Windows Phone" logo behind, as part of a gradual phase out of the Windows Phone name (and OS) which will merge with the desktop version of Windows in the upcoming updates (i.e. no Windows Phone 9).Less smart. "Lumia" works like "Xbox": it lets the device succeed by itself, not be held back by the "Windows" brand.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Sorry about last week, everyone! Blamethese guys!
When the creator of Halo, Bungie, officially announced Destiny two years ago, it did not reveal a single game, it revealed a ten-year plan. According to the studio’s contract with Activision (which wasrevealed in full onlinedue to the publisher’s legal battle with ex-Infinity Ward developers, Vince Zampanella and Jason West), the development team committed to at least a decade on the project. Now that the first game is out, how is that going to work?In the original document, the idea was for Bungie to create four titles before 2023, one every two years, interspersed with big downloadable content updates. The narrative arc of the series is planned to run through it all. Ina recent interview with Official Xbox Magazine, Destiny’s head of production, Jonty Barnes claimed that was just a framework and that we should not necessarily expect three more Destiny titles – or that everything will be over in a decade:“So what I’ll say to you is: we said that we were a ten-year game, and both Activision and Bungie have committed to being wholly behind the large effort, and it’s a large investment for both sides. I don’t think there’s any set date – ten years is just representing the go-forward presence and the way that we think about doing things.”We also know that at least two DLC expansion packs are on the way. The first, subtitled The Dark Below, will feature new co-op missions and crucible maps as well as fresh armour, weapons and other items – andits own mini story line. It will be out in December. A second, House of Wolves, will be along next year. Then a full sequel is likely.Speaking to the Guardian at Gamescom, Barnes claimed that most of the creative staff had moved on to new content very early in 2014. “Much of this year has been about test and polish, bug fixing, stabilisation, making sure it was scaled ready for the beta,” he said. “Since February, most of our artists have actually been working on future versions of Destiny, starting the process of concept art again.”A plan of actionSo how does a studio plan ahead for such a long development period and a production line of content? “We love to invest in universes,” says the studio’s COO, Pete Parsons. “We did Halo for ten years we just didn’t have the benefit of knowing it would happen.“Some of the planning has to do with technology – we don’t know where it is going – but we know we can future-proof around architecture and the kind of work loads we want our artists and designers to have. We have the concept of one world and multiple platforms – that’s not how development used to happen. Often you’d make a game for the Xbox 360 and port to the PS3 or vice versa. With Destiny, it doesn’t matter what platform its on, even if it’s on a companion, it’s sitting in one world – we don’t separate them. That’s a lot of planning.”For Destiny, then, the focus has been on designing a flexible core architecture that the game designers, artists and writers don’t have to worry about – their tools stay the same; they can focus on creating. “In the future designers will be free from fighting their tools, fighting the pipelines, fighting the build, fighting the world server,” says Parsons. “They’re just there to make stuff.”The inspiration for this approach comes from an interesting source: Pixar. Bungie has several staff who worked at the legendary animation studio and who brought with them the company’s approach to facilitating creation. “We know Pixar well and it’s interesting to talk to them because they have a lot of the same kinds of conversations that we do,” says Parsons.“They’re focused on how do we get creators to create – how do we optimise the software for that? They have one advantage – they just need to get a frame then another, then another; we have to produce a frame then realise that the player can do whatever they want within that frame, it becomes incredibly complex. We have the same focus on developing our tools but the more we can plan ahead the more robust we can make them.”As with other massive multiplayer games including World of Warcraft, there’s also a plan to populate the current iteration of the game with new content, non-playable characters and public competitions. The company has announced aseries of events for September, and has promised:Very soon, strange characters will arrive in the Tower with special offerings in hand. Public Events will erupt from the skies over your favorite destinations with greater frequency. And, Bungie will enter the fray with some bounties of our own for you to claim – if you can.It’ll be welcome news to players who have found the game’s environments to be somewhat empty so far, and the Tower – its social hub – lacking any sense of bustle or intrigue. Whatever the future holds for Destiny, it has to work on getting the present functioning first.“Part of the ongoing development process is also about watching players in the current game and learning what people like and what they don’t like. We need to understand player behaviours,” says Barnes. “Is there a convergence all going to one thing at once? What trends are we seeing? What activities do people like to do. What are the most successful public encounters? How do we broaden access? It’s not just about ensuring that the game runs well, it’s about informing future plans as well. It’s about what players like to do at what times of day.“We always wanted to change the way people play cooperatively.”Destiny review: the future of games remains locked in the pastDestiny – a non-gamer’s guide to 2014’s biggest gameDestiny: how a universe was assembled by craftspeople and their community
On Tuesday, the church of Apple held its annual convention in San Francisco. Legions of the faithful, carefully vetted, were assembled in a darkened auditorium. The atmosphere was not quite as hysterical as it used to be when His Steveness was due to take the stage, but the frisson of excited anticipation was nevertheless palpable. The entire event wasrecordedin the highest definition so that the faithful could catch some of the buzz from any corner of the globe, and so many tuned in that Apple’s servers occasionally wilted under the strain.The celebrations were led by His Steveness’s representative on Earth, Tim Cook. He was there to unveil marvels such as have not been created in all the Earth, nor in any nation, in all of which the people would see the work of Jony Ive, for it is an awesome thing that he has wrought. Etc. (See Exodus 34:10 for the analogue version.)In practice, what this meant was: a bigger iPhone and another, even bigger, iPhone; a digital timepiece; and a new way of electronically paying for stuff. All of these were, needless to say, magical, awesome, unprecedented, etc. A more detached view would be that some of the new stuff in the phones is pretty clever (a processor that packs 2bn transistors into a tiny patch of silicon, for example; an improved camera; a way of enabling apps to scale automatically for bigger screens; seamless handover from Wi-Fi phone calls to conventional mobile connections as you move out of range; and so on) but, essentially, all examples of incremental innovation. And although theiWatchlooks like being the first “smartwatch” that might be halfway usable, it’s still justan incremental innovationin a product category pioneered by others.That doesn’t mean it’s uninteresting. After all, when the iPod emerged there were lots of portable MP3 players around. What made the Apple product revolutionary was its intuitive interface, elegant physical design and, most importantly, the way it was embedded into the iTunes system, which made it easy for users to rip CDs and get tracks on to their iPods.The Apple Watch is a chip off the iPod block. There were lots of Bluetooth-powered smartwatches around before Tuesday – Amazon lists dozens by outfits such as Sony, Samsung, Pebble, etc. But my experience of them is that they are clunky in the way that early MP3 players were. Ifjournalistic reportsof the Apple product are to be believed, the Apple Watch is better designed, has a slicker user interface, more sensors and will eventually spawn an ecosystem of usable apps. And being an Apple product, it will be seen by some consumers as a gadget and by others (mostly people with more money than sense) as a status symbol – there’s a high-end version in gold!In the long view of history, though, the innovation that may be seen as really significant isApple Pay– an ingenious blend of contactless payment technology with security features that are baked into the new iPhones. Apple Pay will, burbled Tim Cook, “forever change the way all of us buy things... it’s what makes the iPhone 6 the biggest advancement in the history of iPhones”.The idea is to do away with the rigmarole of having to pull out a credit/debit card, insert in a store’s card reader, type a pin, etc. Instead, you simply bump your iPhone (and, eventually, your Apple Watch) against the store’s contactless reader and – bingo! – you’ve paid, and the store never gets to see your card. Why? Because Apple has stored the card details in heavily encrypted form on your device and assigned each card a unique, device-specific number, which is accepted by the retailer’s contactless reader.This only works, of course, if the retailer has already signed up with Apple. Cook claimed that220,000 US retailershave already opted in to the system, as well as six major banks, plus MasterCard, Visa and American Express – which means that 83% of all US credit card payment volume can theoretically already be handled by Apple Pay.If true, this is a really big deal, because it puts Apple at the heart of an unimaginable volume of financial transactions. In a way, the company is now doing to the card payment business what it did to the music business with the iTunes store. Which is what led one shrewd investor, Jason Calacanis, to predict in an email that “Apple will be the first company to hit a trillion dollar market cap”. Even His Steveness would have been impressed by that.
Price £152,900MPG 25.9Top speed 191mphA tap on my shoulder: “Got any blow?” It’s my friend Byron, a large and garrulous fellow. I’m in my local Sainsbury’s and have no idea what he’s talking about.“Oh come on – some snow, some snort…” Total blank. “Oh for heaven’s sake, some cocaine?” He looks a bit cross. I look a bit mystified. There’s a long pause, then he bursts out laughing and indicates the new “Dragon red”Bentley GT V8 S Convertibleparked outside. “I just presumed you must have become a dealer,” he says.Well actually, no, I haven’t broken bad, but Byron does have a point. This arresting Bentley is a head-swivellingly stunning car. It arrives with quiet menace, like a killer whale drifting into a pool of wet-eyed baby seals. Its vast sculpted flanks, 20in double-spoke alloys with glinting brake callipers and little rimless headlights mean it oozes a sort of louche danger. It stands out in a crowd like a mafia don at a Women’s Institute craft evening.Mr Blue Sky: the rear view of the new Conti.Photograph: PRAnd that’s all before you even turn the engine on. Beneath the bulging bonnet idles a 4-litre, twin-turbocharged V8 engine that bangs out 521bhp. It’s so powerful it will push this car, which when loaded with luggage and four occupants weighs the best part of three tonnes, to a top speed of 191mph (although you do have to shut the roof at that speed – its coupé sister pips it by managing 192mph). Both cars rocket from zero to 60mph in 4.5 seconds. The power arrives in such an overwhelming and unstoppable flood – it sweeps over you like a waterfall over a rock shelf – that it makes you gasp. And the noise… It’s so deep, so shudderingly resonant, that you imagine they must have tuned into a 64ft organ pipe from the nearest cathedral.But Bentley has fallen out of favour as a ride of choice for the hard men of the street. It still has its fans among the footballing fraternity, minor European royalty and home county golfers, but the dealers and gangsters have moved on. As Marvin, a trainee journalist at theObserver, explained to me: “Today’s gangster has had to adapt. He doesn’t want hassle from the police, and a Bentley catches the eye. You are never pulled over in a Prius, and you can park a Smart car where you want.”Inside story: roof down and ready to go.Photograph: PRWhether you are a gangster or a golfer, no one will dispute the sheer class of this luxury convertible. It delivers significant improvements in performance over the original Continental V8. It is faster, lower, more aerodynamic, more economical (well, relatively) and has tighter suspension and improved handling. Inside there is the expected wealth of leather and chrome detailing – the veneers are sanded and lacquered up to 18 times. There is a wonderful mix of the ancient (organ-stop air vents) and the modern (a multipurpose 8in infotainment touch screen). With the four-ply soft top neatly tucked into the secondary boot, the refinement of the drive is gobsmacking. Put the wind-deflector up and you can hurtle down the motorway without your partner’s hair doing its best Don King impression. The cabin’s ambience is so quiet you almost expect to hear the ice-on-crystal clink of a civilised cocktail party. And the strange thing is that the faster you go, the harder you push the car, the better the drive seems to get.I’ve heard older motorists talk of buying a “see-me-out” car – something safe and reliable to see out their driving days. This Bentley is more of six-weeks-to-live car: sell the house, buy one of these in red or yellow or sapphire and blast into the sunset in style. I often get asked: “What’s the best car you have ever driven?” And I never quite know what to say. Now I think I do…Increasing Britain’s road-safety awarenessIn recent years we have seen an increase in fraudulent insurance claims such as “crash for cash” which are costing the UK £2.1bn a year and adding approximately £50 to everyone’s insurance premium. Last year 183,000 road accidents were reported in the UK, and while Britain’s road safety standards are improving, there is still more we can do to make sure Britain’s drivers are acting responsibly and protecting themselves while out on the road. Many motorists consider themselves to be safe drivers, but it is often unexpected events that can catch us out. So, to offer you some advice on how best to cope in these situations and to help you stay safe on the roads is British racing driver andFifth Gearpresenter Tiff Needell has made a short film. It’s certainly worth a look.How to stay safe on the road.The Cycle Show cranks up the excitementBike stand: visitors talk to one of the Cycle Show’s many exhibitors.Photograph: PRThe Cycle Showat the NEC, Birmingham on Friday 26 to Sunday 28 September will be a gathering of the biggest road, mountain, electric, cyclocross and BMX cycling brands in the world, and visitors can get their hands on the latest products, test-ride bikes and speak to industry experts. This year, however, there’s even more going on: Britain’s most successful Olympian, Sir Chris Hoy, will attend on the Friday, featuring in a live question and answer session with ITV’s Tour de France reporter, Ned Boulting, and signing autographs on the Science in Sport stand. There’ll also be action-packed competitions including the Sam Pilgrim Big Air dirt-jumping contest and elite cyclocross races set to entertain everyone.In the first major dirt jumping competition to be staged in the UK since 2007, current World Champion Sam Pilgrim has invited an elite line-up of home-grown and international riders to compete over the three days of The Cycle Show on a specially designed course inside the NEC.If the jumping promises to be spectacular, then the cyclocross races on the Sunday are going to be fast and furious. Featuring both men’s and women’s races, this fast-growing discipline in cycling takes in tarmac and off-road elements to provide a real test for the riders.“These live competitions are only one part of the show though,” says Chris Holman, event director at organisers Upper Street Events. “There will be 250 stands and thousands of brands showcasing their latest bikes, kit, gadgets and plenty more. The Cycle Show has something to offer everyone.”Adult tickets are priced at £13 per person when booked in advance, while children aged 14 and under can attend for just £1 each with an accompanying adult. Concession prices are also available to students and those over 65, with all tickets including access to the competitions. To buy tickets or for more information on The Cycle Show 2014, visitcycleshow.co.ukEmail Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
Size isn’t everything. But when it comes toDestiny, it’s all anyone wants to talk about. The shared-world shooter, which allows you to fight aliens as a warlock, titan or hunter, is rumoured to have a budget of £310m – for comparison, the film Avatar cost about £150m. With that kind of investment (recouped in first-day sales alone) no wonder expectations are so high. Here are five things you need to know about the most expensive game ever made, released last week, reviewed on page 35.1 It owes a lot to a man called Master Chief (no, not Master Chef)Destiny’s developers are a studio called Bungie, founded in 1991 by two friends called Jason Jones and Alex Seropian in a one-room flat in Chicago. Ten years later, Bungie released the firstHalogame – starring a taciturn 6ft10in super-soldier called Master Chief. The franchise has since made billions. But in 2007, Jones and Seropian sold the Halo franchise to Microsoft in order to pursue other projects, includingDestiny.2 Tyrion Lannister is getting bad reviews as your robot friendPeter Dinklage, better known to TV viewers as the endlessly sarcastic Tyrion Lannister inGame of Thrones, provides the voice to yourin-game AI companion, Ghost.It’s hard to design a non-playable character whose chirpy soundbites don’t grate after a while, and reviewers have not been kind. “The mission design … too often asks you to defend him from waves of incoming enemies,” writesEurogamer’s Martin Robinson, “when most players surely couldn’t care less whether he was ripped to shreds or not.”3 You can play Destiny on Xbox One or PS4, whatever the adverts may suggestThe PlayStation 4 and Xbox One are bitter rivals in the console market. ForDestiny, Sony secured exclusive rights to all marketing, so every ad says: “Buy now on PS4!”. Microsoft struck back by launching a spoof site called DestinyFragrance.com. If you clicked the picture of a perfume bottle, the company admitted it was a ruse to get round the advertising ban, adding: “Thanks for smelling that something was up.” The site has been taken down.4 It’s neither a multiplayer nor a single-player gameFor years, there has been a divide between single-player and multiplayer games.Destinyhopes to break the mould as a “shared world shooter”: you can play on your own, but need to join an online team to explore all the content.5 Every player gets a trip to Vegas! (Sadly, only virtually)A beta version of the game, launched this summer, got 4.6m downloads, and Bungie expected double that number to play online this week. That is a challenge for any server, so the firm bought a huge data centre in Las Vegas. “You get a lot of natural disasters walking up and down the strip, but you don’t get a lot of true natural disasters affecting the landscape,” said Bungie COO Pete Parsons. “If there are no earthquakes, no hurricanes, no floods – it’s perfect.”. So far, so good.
Pinball has come a long way since the dodgy arcades of my youth… andZen Studioshas cornered the market in slick, cinematic, heavily franchised tables pumped straight to handheld or console. In increasing order of marketing clout, here we haveDeadpool,Doctor Strange,The Walking DeadandGuardians of the Galaxy. Unusually, the most-hyped franchises prove the most fun. But all four tables are excellent, and are well worth the hours necessary to get anywhere respectable on the leaderboards. These become available once the full version is downloaded, although you can try any and all of them for free. The ball physics is superb, the original voice cast inThe Walking Deadunexpected, and the automatic 60-second multiball at the start of every single game ofGuardians of the Galaxycontinually gratifying. At £2.39 each (on Wii U store) you can’t really argue, although the byzantine download systemwillannoy.
From techno-sheepdogs to android bedfellows, the promise of robotics and the lure of artificial intelligence appears to know no bounds. But will we ever be able to have a proper natter with a robot? And just what will they look like? Now is your chance to find out.Experts will be sharing the latest news in a series of talks and demos under the banner ofthe New Age of Roboticsas part of Sheffield’s wide-rangingFestival of the Mind,which starts on 18 September.“Science fiction robots are very different from real robots, and we want to show people what technologies are available now, what might be round the corner, and discuss the societal issues around those,” says Tony Prescott, director of the Sheffield Centre for Robotics and professor of cognitive neuroscience.A collaboration between Sheffield University and the city, the festival will delve into the pros and cons of emerging technology. Among the talks, Professor Adrian Cheok from City University London will share a romantic vision of the future in his adults-only“X lecture”, explaining how “digital intimacy” could let us share physical sensations, from hugs to smells. His team has developed the “Kissenger”, a method for transmitting a long-distance smooch using a pair of devices that capture and replicate lip movement.More cautious about embracing a techno-future, Noel Sharkey, professor of artificial intelligence and robotics at Sheffield University and co-founder of theInternational Committee for Robot Arms Control, will explore the potential dangers of robo-warfare. “Robot weapons pose a new and terrifying threat to humanity,” he says. “They will select their own targets and attack them without human involvement.”More likely to amuse than unnerve, however, are two robots on show as part of the festival’s interactive exhibition. Able to display a range of emotions, the state-of-the-art humanoid,Zeno,is keen to challenge visitors to a game of Simon says, whileParo, a robo-seal developed in Japan, showcases one of the burgeoning applications for robots in health and social care. Prescott explains: “In our research we are looking at how useful this is – how effective it might be – in actually calming down people with Alzheimer’s, which is one of the applications. And we’re looking at how people with different personalities might respond to those kinds of robots.”There’s little doubt that as technology develops so too will the ethical and social dilemmas. But while some view a future “singularity” – the point where artificial intelligence exceeds our own – as spelling the end of mankind, Prescott has a more sanguine outlook. “I think our job as technologists is to think about those futures and to see what we can start to do now to ensure that we end up with the more optimistic scenarios being realised and avoiding the dangerous ones.“This Festival of the Mind is one small part of that – engaging with people about things they are worried about, and then, in our research programmes, making sure that we anticipate those things.”
If there’s a real magic toDestiny, it’s in how the post-apocalyptic setting makes the familiar backyard of our solar system as disturbing and mysterious far-flung or fictional corner of the universe. For a game characterised by belligerent scale in everything from the size of its budget – publisher Activision has described the series as a $500m investment – to the extraordinary sweep of its environments, there’s something refreshingly parochial, and imaginatively compelling, about this self-imposed limitation.It’s a return to the old-fashioned science fiction of Edgar Rice Burroughs and beyond, mysticism and nobility. WhileDestinyfeatures plenty of theAliens-influenced hardware typical of blockbuster shooters, it also has swords and knights, wizards and ogres. It’s a sideways step from pervasive future war militarism – even though, yes, the game is almost entirely about shooting things – that gives it a sense of wonder.Or at least tries to.Destinyis ambitious, and not all these ambitions are perfectly met. While the game’s presentation is striding and confident, its attempt to expand the social possibilities of a historically lonely, linear genre can leave the world feeling strangely empty. Players can team up for co-op missions, explore the semi-open world together, or meet strangers purging fallen Earth of unwanted enemies. But the flexible structure enabling this social freedom prevents the game from feeling tightly curated – the lush, colourful landscapes slightly detached from the action they host.Still,Destinycarries the grace and weight ofBungie’s previous hit,Halo, and is a joy to simply hold and play. As a result the strongest part of the game is its multiplayer, which is a considered compromise onHalo’s steady basics and the subsequentCall of Duty-led fashion for loadouts and speed. Lots of deathmatch, on this evidence, is what the future holds forDestiny.
Does the wisdom of crowds apply to Apple? Because there is a large crowd of people who hate it. But usually with American companies that make huge amounts of money – such as mobile carriers or TV companies – the hatred comes from their own customers. In contrast, Apple's growing customer base seems to love it; it is the people who are not customers that don't.Apple's formula sounds simple: keep people happy to pay a premium. But it is a trick that is far from simple to pull&nbsp;off.Last week it announced two new phones in larger sizes: a 5.5in "phablet", the iPhone 6 Plus, which looks tailored to the Asian market, and a smaller 4.7in phone whose size finally catches up with what rival makers have offered for years.The smartphone market might seem played out: ownership is at more than 70% and growth at the premium £400+ end has slowed down; most growth is in the sub-£150 market. Samsung smartphone shipments dipped in the second quarter and the Korean firm's top-end phones aren't grabbing the world as they once did.Yet Apple, whose phones all cost more than £300 (even last year's plastic iPhone 5C is £319), expects the "mother of all upgrades" in the coming four months as people who have held on to older iPhones switch to the new, larger ones. Some analysts even think it could challenge Samsung for smartphone sales leadership over Christmas.How? First, Apple drip-feeds improvements just enough to incentivise some customers, while keeping the rest happy with software updates (where it keeps longstanding customers far better served than Google's Android).Secondly, it has built a powerful ecosystem of app makers who, in the west, build for the iPhone first, Android second. Even while Android phones make up the majority of worldwide sales, Apple's customer loyalty is strong – though data seen by theObserversuggests it has weakened in the past year, perhaps because bigger phones have been slow in coming.Now the new handsets aim to tempt high-end Android owners over and capture a new chunk of the premium sector. Apple simply isn't interested in fighting for the cheap end of the market.That's the story with the Apple Watch too. At $349 (with no UK price) and a release date some time in "early 2015", it's pricier than any other smartwatch. What it really adds to your life is not clear yet – though that was the case with the iPad in 2010, and that defined a category. Now, Apple is making a play for the "fashion premium" market, with fashionistas cooing over its straps and gold-plated options. It's hard to go bust selling to the rich.The least visible aspect of the whole affair might be the biggest, though. For years, mobile payments – that is, using smartphones as real-life mobile wallets – have slumbered in the west. Google Wallet has been around since 2011, but gained little notice.But a series of high-profile hacks of US retailers' credit card records – 40m at Target last December, at least as many at Home Depot last month, 130m at Heartland in 2008, 94m at TJX in 2005 – have finally persuaded US banks and retailers to adopt the chip and pin system. Millions of US retail outlets will have to upgrade their point-of-sale terminals. And while they're doing that, they might as well add "tap to pay" functionality.Enter Apple, adding that functionality in its new iPhones and negotiating with Amex, Mastercard and Visa for a lower fee per transaction on the basis that it pays the fraud risk for iPhone transactions. Each payment, validated by the fingerprint reader on the phone, creates a one-time code that's useless to hackers even if they capture it, as it doesn't contain the credit card number. Only the receiving bank can decode and verify the transaction.Apple is also emphasising privacy: it won't know or record what or where or who you pay. In a climate fearful of surveillance, it's a neat little fillip, a bonus for buying those shiny phones – or the Apple Watch, which will also feature tap-to-pay.For Apple, it's more money in the bank. And that pattern repeats each year. Perhaps the crowd isn't that wise after all.Bosses need to work harder for productivityMark Carney says we are going to have to work for our long-awaited pay rise. The governor of the Bank of England used hisspeech to the Trades Union Congresslast week to look at what happened to employment during the downturn and assess the prospects for a pay rise.As he pointed out, the relatively small drop in employment over that period came at a cost: very weak wage growth. The pain felt by British workers from pay cuts was deeper than at any time since the 1920s – and all credit to us for putting up with it, the governor said. His hints that a rate rise will come before wages overtake inflation were softened by high praise for his audience of trade unionists."When British workers have been challenged, they have not given up. Some have taken less productive or lower-skilled jobs. Others are working part-time. Some have become self-employed. Others are prepared to do the same work for less than they would have done," he said.But just as workers shared the burden during hard times, so they must do their share of the heavy lifting during the upswing if Britain's pay problem is to end, he warned.He is right – up to a point. The root of the squeeze lies in Britain's dismal productivity performance – both on output per hour and per worker, we are way down the league tables.To get Britain's productivity growing again, he is correct to say workers must continue to learn while they earn. They must keep pace with rapid technological change and competition from around the world, which in themselves will drive up productivity.But employers are just as responsible for making this happen. There is a danger that, in an increasingly privatised world, only the few wealthy enough to afford it will buy their own training outside work and then be able to get on. Wise businesses that want to raise productivity and hold on to their employees will invest in raising the skills of their whole workforces.In the Gulf and the steppes, BP backs into a cornerThe European Uniontook aim at Rosneft again last week. Sanctions will make it difficult for Russia's largest oil company to raise money in the region, but the restrictions may not be hugely disruptive to the group in the short term.However, it is an immediate reputational issue for BP, which holds a 20% stake in Rosneft. BP said it would comply with the latest ruling from Brussels, which mirrors earlier action by the US.Image problems are stalking BP, the latest being a US federal judge unexpectedly ruling it guilty of "gross negligence" over the Deepwater Horizon spill in the Gulf of Mexico. To an extent, BP chief executive Bob Dudley was forced into taking the Rosneft stake by the Russians' decision to buy out the company's TNK-BP venture at a time when the UK company was short of options. Now BP is looking cornered again.
I’m trying to get my Sim to read a book. She says she wants to, but instead of getting one from the bookcase that has been the subject of relentless clicking, she stands resolutely motionless. Sadly, lock-up is just one of many bugs players are likely to encounter in this fourth main instalment of the life-management series. Other problems included Sims loading in completely different worlds from the one selected, and total, blue-screen-of-death failure of the game. Not a great start.When you’ve battled through the problems, there are some neat features added toThe Sims 4, notably multitasking. Exercising and chatting at once, for instance, boosts both categories, speeding up some of the game’s minutiae. Building is also improved, with more options but a simpler interface. However, longtime fans of the series are likely to find the bad outweighs the good, with countless features fromSims 3absent, proving a major disincentive.
Many in the drag-queen community are up in arms over a Facebook requirement that user accounts must be operated under “real names”.The performers say Facebook has forced them to use their legal names if they want to continue to access and use their accounts.A San Francisco drag queen,Sister Roma, said in a Facebook postthe policy was “unfair, hurtful, discriminatory and an invasion of privacy”. As a result of the policy Sister Roma’s account is now under her legal name, which had previously been largely unknown to fans and friends.The tech giant’s policy is resurrecting controversialquestions about privacyon Facebook, as some observers argue that such“real-name” policies can be harmfulto groups such as victims of abuse or activists.Facebook’sname policysays a profile name “should be your real name as it would be listed on your credit card, driver’s licence or student ID”. It also says that forcing people to use their real identities helps keep the social network safe.“If people want to use an alternative name on Facebook, they have several different options available to them, including providing an alias under their name on their profile, or creating a page specifically for that alternative persona,” Facebook said in an email sent to the Guardian.“As part of our overall standards, we ask that people who use Facebook provide their real name on their profile.”Performers, however, say that along with using their stage names for privacy reasons, their personal Facebook pages are not commercial enterprises.“We are not businesses selling products, we are encouraging our friends to come to our events and performances, promoting charitable causes, and making calls to political action, with occasional mundane daily life updates like every other Facebook user,” a Seattle-based performer, Olivia LaGarce, wrotein a petition.More than 6,800 people have signed the petition, which accuses Facebook of pulling a “bait and switch”.The crackdown on profile names followsa much-heralded policy change made in February, which allowed users to customise their gender and suggested 50 terms people may want to use, including “intersex”, “other” and “gender fluid”.
It is still months away but already there are predictions that, for the tech-savvy, the only gift this Christmas will be a wearable band.Sales of the bands – which allow users to perform functions from paying for a coffee to monitoring their health or sleep patterns – are predicted to increase by 129% next year as more than 43m devices are sold around the world, according to tech analysts Canalys. Of these, 28m will be "smartbands" with the ability to connect to third-party devices such as tablets or iPhones.Experts say the Apple Watch,unveiled by the company's CEO, Tim Cook, last week, will be a key driver in the market. The watch boasts a range of health and fitness functions and also has a mapping device. "The arrival of Apple is so significant," said Jason Jenkins, director of content at tech news site CNet. "The company essentially defined what the modern MP3 player, smartphone and tablet computer looks like and what their functions are. Everyone is looking to Apple to repeat the same trick with smartwatches."In the past, some wearable bands were seen as clunky or unattractive. But Daniel Matte of Canalys believes Apple has learned from the mistakes of earlier versions: "Apple has produced a smartwatch that mass-market consumers will actually want to wear."In a sign of how bands are entering the mainstream, the fashion world is also becoming interested. Chipmaker Intel revealed the Mica (My intelligent Communication Accessory) smart bracelet at New York Fashion Week last weekend in partnership with fashion house Opening Ceremony."The fact that Apple are making [a smartwatch] will generate sales which will in turn lead to smartwatches and wearables in general looking normal and desirable," said Matt Egan, editor in chief at UK tech magazine TechAdvisor. "Expect to see a lot of people wearing both a traditional watch and a smartwatch, when this craze kicks in."He predicted that the emergence of competitors to Apple, which will not launch its watch until next year, will push down prices of smartwatches and basic bands. "It is aimed at people with a disposable income who are style- and fashion-conscious," Egan said. "They will snap up the Apple Watch, which will in turn create a market for cheaper alternative smartwatches.""The basic band vendors, such as Fitbit and Jawbone [activity trackers worn on the wrist], will enjoy the advantages of their lower pricing for the immediate future," said Chris Jones, principal analyst at Canalys."Eventually, however, stronger smartband competitors to the Apple Watch will likely emerge and push smartband pricing down, threatening the basic bands. This market will undergo disruption similar to that suffered by feature phones when smartphone prices fell."Egan said computer and phone manufacturers were "desperate" to add a new category of device to generate new revenues. "Smartwatches are perfect because they also tie into particular brands of phone, which means you will upgrade them as you upgrade your phone, but also you will stay loyal to a particular brand of phone," he said."Which is not to say that there is no merit in wearables in general or smartwatches in particular. Smartphones are brilliant, portable computing and communications devices. But they have taken us back to the era of the pocket watch. You have to take a device out of your pocket to get at all that great information."The reason the dumb watch has remained a constant for decades is that it is almost a perfect form factor. Convenient and only as obtrusive as you wish it to be. Getting the information from your smartphone on to your wrist is highly useful."Jenkins said consumers need to be cautious about the hype around the devices. "Wearable tech is niche right now – a growing one, but a niche nonetheless. There are some good fitness products out there that measure the number of steps you take each day and measure it against the goals you set yourself, for example. But this sort of portable health nanny is a long way from the mainstream."It's still very early days for the whole sector: existing products can be fiddly to use, and in the case of smartwatches, no one has really figured out what they are truly meant to do."
Technology was the word of the day asLondon fashion weekopened on Friday, with the chairwoman of the British Fashion Council, Natalie Massenet, singing its praises and lauding the opportunities for designers to engage with their audience.Digital elements offer the chance to follow, engage and take part in shows from the comfort of the sofa and with the kettle on standby – and without the pain of high heels.Star in the flagship London Topshop store windowThe well-loved British high street store is aiming to create “its most socially accessible fashion show to date”, with a helping hand from fans and social media firms Facebook and Instagram.The Topshop Unique show is a hot ticket among the fashion pack – 861 is the maximum venue capacity, but 5,300 tickets had already been requested by Thursday afternoon. Fear not: Topshop is sharing looks from its spring/summer 2015 collection on Facebook as soon as the show ends.If you want to star in a piece of fashion week then grab a friend, take a picture, upload it to Instagram with the #Topshopwindow hashtag, and you’ll pop up in its flagship Oxford Circus store window.Watch the Burberry show liveThe Burberry Prorsum show on Monday will be firmly noted in every fashion editor’s diary. Past shows have seen Cara Delevingne and Jordan Dunn walk the runway while the likes of Anna Wintour, Bradley Cooper and Harry Styles hit the front row.Cara Delevingne will be part of Burberry Prorsum’s London show on MondayPhotograph: Neil Rasmus/BFAnyc.com/REX/Neil Rasmus/BFAnyc.com/REXAs well as streaming the show live, the brand are giving customers the chance to buy exclusive nail polish colours worn by the models on the catwalk. Nail varnish isn’t too exciting - but the launch of Twitter’s “buy” button is, and Burberry’s willingness to try it out is another clear declaration of the brand’s bid to weave digital innovation into their shows.More than 90% of shows on the LFWschedulewill be streamed live on the official website.Take to social media for highlightsCamera phones are everywhere at LFW, and uploading and hashtagging pictures of shows, models, celebrities and venues is as prevalent as bottled water and goodie bags.During the autumn/winter 2014 LFW shows in February, there were more than 300,000 mentions of #LFW and nearly 100,000 images tagged on Instagram, according to the BFC.You can follow fashion insiders to watch the action unfold on your feed, and if you want to contribute, tweet with the official hashtag and the best tweets and Instagram photos will appear on the LED Screen on the exterior of the BFC courtyard show space at Somerset House.While you’re on Twitter, check out the instant highlights from the Hunter show on Saturday at 2pm. The brand known for the luxury wellies beloved by Kate Moss has partnered up with real-time video start up Grabyo, with different 10-45 second clips shown to users according to where there are, and what the weather’s like. Look out for the hashtag #Beahunteroriginal.•London Fashion Week: the expert view on the trends to watch this season
With the launch ofDestiny(Xbox 360, PS3, PS4, Xbox One, pictured), the new blockbuster franchise from Halo developers Bungie, apparently attempting to set new records for advertising spend, most publishers are cowering in abject terror this month. There are a few other games coyly shuffling out, including phonics fun withBiff, Chip &amp; Kipper(3DS), which helps small children learn to read with Oxford Reading Tree’s characters, whileWarframe(Xbox One) brings the free-to-play third-person shooter to Xbox One owners. For lovers of North American sport,NHL 15(Xbox 360, PS3, PS4, Xbox One) plays a decent game of ice skating, hockey sticks and lightly armed combat, andNaruto Shippuden: Ultimate Ninja Storm Revolution(Xbox 360, PS3, PC) is yet another outing in the relentless manga-based series.
I'm not sure driving the secretary of state for business around his constituency in a&nbsp;Japanese sports car will do wonders for his reputation. For starters, the Mazda MX-5 is so dinky thatVince Cable's knees are up to his chin. Second, I suspect the first of this column's occasional guest passengers might prefer to be seen in a British motor. "You can't make buying British compulsory for ministers," he says, then reflects. "We've got a very good car industry, though, and it would send an important message."The MX-5 is a pert little thing, a two-seater runaround that struggles with Twickenham's speed bumps – a&nbsp;very different creature from Cable's Vauxhall Astra estate ("unspectacular, solid, 100,000-plus miles on the clock"). This is a special edition to mark the 2.0-litre roadster's 25th anniversary, and comes with a&nbsp;few frills: hand-carved art deco panel, heated leather seats, embossed headrests and a six-speaker stereo (the sound is dismal).But it handles brilliantly, thanks to its rear-wheel drive, and is light to the touch. (The next generation MX-5, released in 2016, promises to be even lighter.) The Mazda's calling card has always been that it is fun to drive and lovely to look at, and this holds true. It has a sleek, muscular grace, and runs thrillingly low to the ground – though taller passengers such as Cable have some trouble exiting.I'm not sure he's really the MX-5's target market. It's famously popular with female drivers, though I don't know why a classic roadster shouldn't appeal to men, too. Still, Cable approves. "I have a split personality about cars," he admits: his affection for his Astra is counterbalanced by a&nbsp;liking for "cars like this, fast and sporty". A high point of his cabinet career has been test-driving anAston Martin DB9: "They let me loose on the circuit and we got up to 150mph."As we head towards Hampton, Cable recalls the time a buffalo charged his car. It was the late 1960s, and he was working as an economic adviser to the Kenyan government. "Fortunately," he says, "it was a glancing blow rather than head-on, otherwise I would have been in serious trouble." He pauses. "Left at the mini roundabout."As secretary of state, Cable is responsible for the British car industry, including the development of hybridisation and driverless cars. "I've had my first outing in one," he says of the latter. "It was weird, but very safe. And we want the UK to be a leader in the field." He cycles around his constituency, and commutes to Westminster by train ("not first class, and I almost invariably stand"). When he drives, it's the Friday night trek down the M3 to join his wife at her farm in the&nbsp;New Forest.There is something pleasingly contradictory about Cable. He sounds like a politician when he talks about local traffic concerns, but there is a burst of spirit when conversation alights on his passions – ballroom dancing, say, or learning to drive on an abandoned airfield in Yorkshire.We drive past the rugby stadium and hospital, then back to Cable's front door. As he unfolds himself from the seat, I&nbsp;think of something he said a few miles back: "When I get the chance to do something adventurous, I&nbsp;grab it." I think, like me, he enjoys the zippy charms of the MX-5, even if it is Japanese.Mazda MX-5: 'This is a special edition to mark the 2.0-litre roadster's 25th anniversary, and comes with a few frills: hand-carved art deco panel, heated leather seats, embossed headrests and a six-speaker stereo' Photograph: Simon Stuart-Miller for the GuardianMazda MX-5Price£22,995Top speed136mphAcceleration0 to 62mph in 7.9 secondsCombined fuel consumption36.2mpgCO2emissions181g/kmEco rating5/10On Vince's stereoMagic and Classic FM• Follow Laura onTwitter.
It’s the news that fans of anarchic mega-violence have been waiting for: Grand Theft Auto V is coming to PlayStation 4, Xbox One and PC. After rumours that the updated versions of last year’s multimillion-selling crime adventure had been delayed or, in the case of the PC version,cancelled, Rockstar has finally revealed the launch plans. The refreshed console versions will be released on 18 November, the PC version on 27 January.The publisher, which has so far sold 35m copies of the game on Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3, has also announced a range of enhancements. The forthcoming versions will get new weapons, vehicles and activities, as well as busier roads, extra wildlife in the rural areas, and improved weather and damage effects. Over 100 new songs and DJ mixes are being added to the in-game radio stations.Furthermore, Xbox and PlayStation owners who purchased the original versions of the game will be able to upload their saved characters and progression if they purchase it again on new consoles.According to the Rockstar website, there is extra content for them too, “including rare versions of classic vehicles to collect from across the Grand Theft Auto series such as the Dukes, the Dodo Seaplane and a faster, more maneuverable Blimp; activities including wildlife photography and new shooting range challenges, new weapons and more.”A new trailer featuring visuals from the updated game is set to be released later.GTA 5 review: a dazzling but monstrous parody of modern life
Since late August Zoe Quinn, the developer of indie gaming’s critical hitDepression Quest, has been the target of a campaign that saw her Tumblr hacked, address posted online and terrifyingly plausible plans to cripple her laid out with cold-blooded straightforwardness.In public the rationale for this was the allegation that Quinn lay at the centre of a network of corruption in videogaming that saw personal favours traded to elevate a network of her friends with controversial ideas about gaming above “true” gamers.In private the rationale was simpler. Quinn was an example of a “social justice warrior”: a critic of games culture interested in opening the medium to audiences including women, queer people and people of colour. Her persecutors discussed how best to fulfil the aim of driving “SJWs” from gaming while maintaining the pretence that the campaign was about corruption.One of the problems with using an anonymous platform to orchestrate your hate campaign is that you can never quite be sure who is listening. On 6 September, the inhabitants of a chatroom called #Burgersandfries learned this themselves.The site was where a small collection of gamers linked to /v/, the videogame subforum of notorious image board 4chan, met to organise their “raids” on Quinn.What they didn’t know was that Quinn was watching.Using screenshots and video, she caught the members of the chatroom discussinghow to hack her email,where to go to stalk her in personand how theyhoped to destroy her career.The “raids” were the toxic core of something that filtered out into the wider world as #GamerGate, which at first sight appears to be a social media campaignalleging corruption among games journalists and game developers. But it concealed something far more unpleasant.Quinn was not surprised to find proof that the campaign was a smokescreen. “It was pretty clear they were out for blood from day one,” she says.As the hashtag has grown beyond its origin, there are supporters of the campaign who are unaware of – or unconcerned about – its roots in a bitter blogpost by an ex-boyfriend of Quinn, accusing her of cheating on him with a writer for Kotaku, a gaming news site.After publication of the post, which showed up on 4chan minutes later (Quinn accuses her ex-boyfriend of posting it there himself),Quinn wrote a response, headlined “Once again, I will not negotiate with terrorists”. Shortly afterwards, her blog was hacked, with personal information, including her home address, posted online – a practice known as “doxxing”.Even as the doxxing gained a post-hoc justification, focusing on Quinn’s relationship with the games journalist whohad written about her once(before they had slept together), the information was still being circulated in its original form. Days later, Quinn woke up to find that a right-wing Hollywood actor with 200,000 twitter followers, Adam Baldwin,had linked tovideos thatshe said“help circulate my doxx and nude photos and contribute to me being unable to fucking GO HOME”.By that point, Quinn had been forced to leave her home for a safer location, where she describes watching the chatrooms and seeing “my ex pop in for a Q&amp;A, coaching them to slow down the harassment – not because of the massive damage it’s done to totally unrelated parties, but because it undermines their hate mob”.As the harassment turned from a specific campaign against Quinn to a wider attack on feminism in gaming – or “social justice warriors” – other women were involved. Anita Sarkeesian, a feminist critic of games and pop culture,and no stranger to online abuse herself, was sucked in; so too was Jenn Frank, an award-winning games writerwho covered the story for the Guardian.Much of the campaign hinges on anonymity and the use of pseudonyms on the platforms where it is arranged. Yet ironically they are also what allowed Quinn easy access to the room where the attacks were being organised and made it possible for others to warn her of plans to “give her a crippling injury that’s never going to fully heal and remind her of her fuckup for life”.But it also makes the size of the campaign unclear, and obscures who is genuinely passionate about ethics in gaming and who is putting up a smokescreen to hide harassment (including endlessaccusationsof “false flag” attacks).“The weird thing is that at the epicentre of this, I have no sense of scope,” Quinn says. “I have countless fake accounts on social media sending me hate and it’s hard to discern how many people are actually involved.”When she released the chatroom logs, Quinn hoped that moderate proponents of the campaign would realise they were part of a movement that was being stage-managed by a group focused on harassment.But Quinn says that hope is fading fast.“I want to give people the benefit of the doubt,” she told the Guardian. “I know that if enough people shout a falsehood, people start to think it’s true and a lot of people don’t do independent verification of everything they hear. The thing aboutastroturfingis that it can be really believable.”But, she added, “I think right now the well is incredibly poisoned: it’s likely a losing battle and that’s incredibly disappointing. I also feel like discussing ethics and fairness is antithetical to a campaign originated in and motivated by a fair bit of misogyny and harassment.“What I’d really like to see is more discussion around how to handle these kinds of hate mobs and astroturfing tactics,considering that it happened to other feminist groups three times this year already.”Does she feel things can get better? “I have no idea. At least these conversations are starting to happen and that’s important. I feel like we’re likely moving in a more progressive direction – or at least I hope so – but it can be hard to notice a glacier moving when you’re too busy trying to keep your head above water.”•Gamergate: the community is eating itself but there should be room for all
In Germany, they have a term for silicon valley companies like Google, Amazon and Facebook, the big beasts of the internet that have come to dominate our online lives. They are known as the datenkraken. The word means data octopuses, and it is intended to frighten – in Norse myth, theKrakenwas a murderous sea monster.Today's datenkraken do not drag mariners into the deep, but they have tentacles that reach around the world, gathering the data of private citizens on a scale that, since Snowden's revelations about US surveillance, has created huge unease in Europe.Last Monday, the European Commission's outgoing competition commissioner, Joaquín Almunia,decided to reopen his five-year investigation into Google's search rankings. Finishing the job will fall to Almunia's replacement, the former Danish finance ministerMargrethe Vestager. Her colleague, Europe's new digital economy commissioner Guenther Oettinger, has already made his feelings known. On Wednesday, he said Google's market power could be limited, adding that he would work to ensure that the search engine's services preserve neutrality and objectivity.The message from Brussels is clear, according to Ian Maude, new media expert atEnders Analysis: "Google is the new Microsoft. As far as the regulators are concerned, it is the big bad wolf."Over the course of investigations and legal battles that ran from 1993 to 2013, the commission imposed more than €2bn in fines on Microsoft. There were probes into licensing practices, and orders to unbundle its products, so that European Windows users had a choice of web browsers and media players other than those produced by Microsoft.The relationship between the US group and Brussels was highly confrontational. Microsoft did not send its executives to woo the commissioners, it sent armies of lawyers to fight each proposal. But now, the shoe is on the other foot.Google has become as dominant on our personal computers – laptops, phones and tablets – as Microsoft was a decade ago. In search, its position seems unassailable. An estimated 90% of user queries pass through Google in Europe, according toStatCounter. As one of the lead plaintiffs against Google in Brussels, Microsoft is now only too willing to use the regulatory powers of the commission against its rival.Google's strategy has been to send its chairman, Eric Schmidt, on diplomatic missions to Brussels, and work with the commission to find a solution. The controversy is over natural search – as opposed to the paid-for results that appear on the right hand side or at the top of the Google page. Rather than producing a series of blue links in response to queries, Google has begun answering questions itself. Ask for the weather today, and you will be shown a forecast for your region. Look up French food in Nottingham, and you will be shown a map with pins locating each restaurant, plus a list of establishments with addresses and star ratings.Rivals complain this diverts traffic away from specialist websites offering the same information, likeOpenTableorTripAdvisor. Google offered to change the way it presented search results. Its first two solutions were rejected by Almunia, but the third was accepted. It would involve two boxes – one containing Google's own information, and another showing information from rivals, with places auctioned to the highest bidder. Research by Microsoft shows that even with these changes, the Google links box, which is more prominent, will attract 99 times more clicks than the rival links box.Google insists it does not promote its own products at the expense of others. Schmidt said in aletterto the Financial Times last week: "We aim to show results that answer the user's queries directly (after all we built Google for users, not websites) … To date, no regulator has objected to Google giving people direct answers to their questions for the simple reason that it is better for users."Google's constructive, conciliatory approach initially convinced Almunia. But in February 2014, when he gave the US group's third proposal a preliminary thumbs up, the result was uproar, not just from competitors but from the French and German governments.Egged on by European media companies and telecoms firms, whose sectors are most threatened by the digital revolution, politicians rushed to criticise the decision. In France, opposition was led byArnaud Montebourg, who was economy minister until president François Hollande dissolved his government last month. Along with his German counterpart, Sigmar Gabriel, he wrote to Almunia demanding a rethink."We don't want to become a digital colony of global internet giants," Montebourg said in May. "What's at stake is our sovereignty itself."In parts of Europe, Google is more than the next Microsoft. It is an agent of American colonialism. By gathering the private data of European citizens, Montebourg believes that Facebook and Amazon are creating databases that can be exploited for virtually tax-free commercial gain, or mined by intelligence experts in Washington DC.In the German press,Gabriel wrote: "Every time we "search" for something on Google, Google searches us and captures information about ourselves which can not only be sold for targeted personalised advertising, but is, essentially, also available to our bank, our health insurance company, our car or life insurance company, or – if the need arises – to the secret service."There's no such thing as a free lunch – we pay for these services with our personal data – and, unless we are careful, at the end of the day with our personal and social freedom as well. It is the core task of liberalism and social democracy to tame and restrain data capitalism gone wild."Sigmar's words read like a political manifesto. It is a manifesto that has been adopted by Jean-Claude Juncker, the European Commission's newly elected president. "Europe's path to growth is paved with tablets and smartphones," the former Luxembourg prime minister states on his personal website. While Europe led the world in mobile technology, it has trailed America in the creation of internet corporations and jobs. Juncker believes bringing Eruope's 500m citizens into a single market for technology – with common laws for things like copyright, co-ordinated mobile phone spectrum auctions, and regional regulators – will create strong businesses and jobs. It is his top priority, above even energy security.Among Google's most powerful critics is Mathias Döpfner, whose Axel Springer group publishes the tabloid Bild, Germany's most widely read newspaper. When Angela Merkel humiliated David Cameron by switching sides and supporting Juncker for the top job in Europe, fingers were pointed at Döpfner. Convinced that the Luxembourgian politician would back his calls for tougher sanctions on Google, he is said to have used Bild's influence to turn Merkel.In anopen letterto Google's Schmidt, penned in April, Döpfner warned: "Voluntary self-subjugation cannot be the last word from the Old World. On the contrary, the desire of the European digital economy to succeed could finally become something for European policy, which the EU has so sorely missed in the past few decades: an emotional narrative."It is a narrative that has cast the American datenkraken as the arch enemy. Brussels would like to dismantle their low tax corporate structures, and Almunia made a first move in June, announcing aprobe into tax arrangements used by Apple in Irelandand Starbucks in the Netherlands.Now the Google search inquiry has been re-opened. Another, delving into Google's Android mobile platform, and how phone makers are required to pre-install its Chrome internet browser and other services, is waiting in the wings.The Berlin wall has fallen, but Europe is erecting new defences: it is building a firewall to protect the Old World from becoming a digital colony of the New World.
If it seemed like Yo, the zero-character social network, was a low/high point (delete as appropriate) of the internet, you were wrong: things can still get worse/better. Witness the rise of the emoji-based social network.Over the course of the last two months, no fewer than three separate networks have launched promising to revolutionise our communication by focusing entirely on emoji – the small pictographic depictions that can be found in modern devices of everything from faces, both human 😄 and cat 😸, through shoes 👠 and flowers 🌺 to sad moons 🌚 and fast trains 🚆. (Although if you aren’t using a browser that can handle emoji, that sentence will look odd.)The first to launch wasEmojicate, an “Emoji only chat &amp; social networking app” from Teesside-based Clicksco Labs. The company sees its app “as taking hieroglyphics to the modern era,” its director Nick Kendaltold The Journal.Once users have signed up to the app using their Facebook login, the only bit of real text they’ll ever see, apart from the UI, is their and their friends names. Everything else on the social network, which operates a bit like a pictogram-filled Twitter, is an emoji.Or is it? Emojicate uses its own custom emojis, rather than relying on the built-in set included in most smartphones. That lets the app provide a greater vocabulary than it could otherwise get away with, and even offers the prospect of custom emoji, such as a clock with hands which can be turned to a specific time. At the extreme end, users can even make quasi-emojis out of the profile pictures of their friends.The aim is clearly to come up with something that could feasibly be used for actual communication: a picture of a friend’s face, followed by a pint glass, a clock with the hands set at 7pm, and a question mark, is readily understandable as an offer of after-work drinks. But is anyone really going to be using an emoji-based social network for actual communication?Perhaps Emojli, originating in the UK, is the real leader of emoji based social networks. Announced before Emojicate but launched afterwards, it is the purist’s network. Everything is emoji: the messages – of course – but also the interface and even the usernames. (I managed to score a coveted single-character username on the network: a pair of blue jeans 👖.) The app works more like WhatsApp than Twitter, letting users chat to each other with emoji. And this is the real deal: 100% purestrain unicode-compatible emoji.Which, of course, makes it even more useless. Asked if the app is supposed to be a serious effort or more of a joke app, developers Matt Gray and Tom Scott say they aren’t sure of the split. “Yes, it’s a joke and, yes, we put serious effort into it but we’ve no idea which one takes priority.”As for why their announcement was so quickly followed by two similar apps, they are a bit clearer: “It’s a really, really obvious joke.“Seriously, theUnicode Consortium released its new emoji, andYo came out. We’re a bit surprised there aren’t more people who connected the two!”Then there’s Steven. That’sthe name of the app, in case it’s not clear (it’s not clear at all, is it?). Steven, which is from the US, takes the rough idea of an emoji social network and fleshes it out into something that could feasibly be useful – half life-logging app like Facebook-owned Moves, half photo-sharing social network like Facebook-owned Instagram.The app ambiently tracks users’ locations, and gives them the ability to take and share photos. For some, particularly those without an active friends list, that’s an opportunity to do life logging, building a photo-based history of where they’ve been; but for others, it’s a lighter-still take on the photo sharing aspects of Instagram.And why not? A quick look at the average Instagram feed reveals the network is largely Emoji anyway. Maybe taking the text away could improve the service?But if all these pictograms are getting you down – it’s almost like reading, after all, and the whole point of Emoji was to not have to do that anymore – never fear: the original zero-content social network is still around. And withmore than 100m Yos sent, you won’t be alone.•Emoji: the first truly global language?
At dawn on 17 March the inhabitants of Los Angeles were woken by a mild tremor. Less than three minutes later the Los Angeles Times websitepublished an initial piece on the subject, at first sight a wire drafted in haste by a press agency: “A shallow magnitude 4.7 earthquake was reported Monday morning five miles [8km] from Westwood, California, according to the US Geological Survey. The temblor occurred at 6.25am Pacific time at a depth of 5.0 miles. According to the USGS, the epicentre was six miles from Beverly Hills, California, seven miles from Universal City, California, seven miles from Santa Monica, California, and 348 miles from Sacramento, California. In the past 10 days, there have been no earthquakes magnitude 3.0 and greater centred nearby. This information comes from the USGS Earthquake Notification Service and this post was created by an algorithm written by the author.”The author in question is on the staff of the Times, doubling up as a journalist and computer programmer. That morning the USGS servers received data from various seismographs, translated them into figures and sent them over the net to the journalist’s personal computer. Once there the data were imported by software, which selected the relevant information and drafted an article in everyday English. The journalist, who had woken with a jolt, got up, read the article and clicked “send”, but in fact this sort of text could be published without any human intervention. Next time even if he stays in bed, Times readers will receive the news.The event drew the attention of US media, because in recent years the Los Angeles Times has laid off many writers, due to financial problems. Putting two and two together, some people imagined they were being replaced by machines. In practice, “robot writers” – with varying levels of sophistication and autonomy – are beginning to be installed, discreetly, by a few media and other business sectors that generate large volumes of written documents.In the US automated writing technology was partly developed by artificial intelligence specialists atNorthwestern University in Illinois. ProfessorLarry Birnbaum, joint head of the Intelligent Information Laboratory, is an emblematic figure in this new, horizontal discipline, for he also teaches at the nearby Medill School of Journalism.He was among the inventors of theQuillsystem, which despite its high performance will run on an ordinary PC under Linux. To explain how it works, Birnbaum draws a distinction between four theoretical steps, though in practice they overlap.Quill starts by importing data (tables, lists, graphs) structured by other software. “These days that represents a large part of the information produced by humans, from spreadsheets containing company accounts to a blog describing the events of a football match,” Birnbaum says. Upstream, other intelligent systems can take care of converting data in diverse formats (including text) into structured data that can be used by a machine. In this way robot writers potentially have access to all human knowledge. The next task for Quill is to carry out narrative analysis. “Data is sorted and ranked using a method which focuses exclusively on building a narrative,” Birnbaum adds. “It selects certain facts, underlines actions, highlights figures.”The third, most innovative task is to generate a narrative. “The algorithms define a plan, with a list of facts,” Birnbaum explains. “Then, thanks to a modelling process, they choose the appropriate editorial angles. In practice the result is a mixture of words, lines of code, graphs – a representation which only machines can understand.”On the basis of this material Quill then moves on to drafting, properly speaking. “To compose sentences it has a library of rules, words and turns of phrase, taken from everyday English, but also specialist professional terminology,” Birnbaum says. For the uninitiated this final step is the most spectacular and the most astonishing, but it is not the most complex part for artificial intelligence professionals. “Computers have known how to write in English for years. The reason they haven’t done so in the past is they had nothing to say, lacking access to a sufficient volume of information,” he adds with a smile. Now they have interesting stories to tell humans.To capitalise on Quill as a business venture a fellow Infolab researcher, Kris Hammond, startedNarrative Science, a firm based in Chicago. Contrary to received wisdom, Hammond is sure that a good narrative is worth much more than a neat sketch, because the human brain is wired to understand an idea perfectly when put in words. “Thanks to Quill,” he says, “in a few years’ time no one will have to waste time deciphering an Excel worksheet or interpreting graphs with x and y axes ... Quill and its successors will hoover up indigestible data and transform them into clear, simple text which will enable everyone to get the message, quite naturally, through language.”Hammond was in the limelight recently, having claimed that by 2025 90% of the news read by the general public would be generated by computers. “That doesn’t mean that robots will be replacing 90% of all journalists, simply that the volume of published material will massively increase,” he explains. “Take the example of small amateur baseball games. They don’t interest the media, but several dozen people follow each one. Quill collates data on thousands of these games and can produce thousands of articles almost instantaneously, one for each match, in a style similar to sportswriters, who are easy to imitate.” Narrative Science already has customers in this field, including websites specialising in local sport or news for young people.Quill is also taking an interest in finance, another field in which articles by humans are often repetitive. “For many years Forbes magazine has been publishing profit forecasts for some firms, before the final figures are released. Now, thanks to Quill, it does it for more than 5,000 corporations,” Hammond reveals. Forbes.com now posts material authored by Narrative Science, typically wires such as “Wall Street is optimistic about the prospects for Kruger Inc, poised to release its first-quarter figures next Thursday. Analysts are forecasting operating earnings per share of $1.05, up 92% on last year.” Similarly banks, brokers and rating agencies, which prefer to remain anonymous, use Quill to draft the countless reports required by the federal administration and regulatory bodies. “For the time being reports produced by Quill are checked before dispatch, because we’re still at an experimental stage. But in a few months they will be sent to the administration automatically, without being seen by human eye,” Hammond adds.He is convinced that this is the start of a big adventure for Quill. Automated writing will soon be showing what it can really do, when it merges with another technological advance: individual tracking of billions of consumers, thanks to their purchases, internet browsing habits, mobile communications and such.Automated systems can take over repetitive tasks, such as data-driven financial stories.Photograph: Alamy“One day President Obama explained to the media that if Americans made sure their tyres were properly inflated they could save 7% on fuel. This claim went unheeded because folks didn’t want to do the math. But in the future your favourite news website will explain things differently: it’ll know who you are, the make of car you drive and how much it consumes, how far you travel every week, the type of fuel you buy, and so on. It’ll draft an article specially for you, telling you exactly how many dollars you’d save if your tyres were properly inflated,” Hammond says. The same approach could be used in countless other sectors, from healthcare to politics. “One day, there will only be a single reader for each article.”Narrative Science is not the only player in the robot-writer market and competing firms are springing up all the time.Automated Insights, headquartered in North Carolina, sells a system called Wordsmith, which it describes as a “natural language generation platform”. Adam Smith, vice-president for sales and marketing, says the company produced more than 300m texts in 2013 and will top 1bn this year. It has a dozen customers in an experimental phase, including Gannett, which publishes USA Today and Yahoo News.Yahoo uses Wordsmith to draft texts for Fantasy Sport, a game in which players create their dream football team using the professional profiles of real athletes, then compete in fictitious games with virtual teams fielded by other players. “The system analyses athletes’ performance in real matches, then decides which virtual team will win against another. And of course, it provides a commentary on the match,” Smith explains.Wordsmith also knows how to draft property advertisements and reports on marketing, business activity and financial results. “Drawing on the same data – stock market prices – we can write millions of different stories, each one focusing on variations in a single portfolio,” Smith adds.Meanwhile, the French company Yseop, which also operates in Texas, has developed a system which can speak English, French, Spanish, Portuguese and very soon Japanese. The company website features a demonstration financial article that updates automatically each time you change a figure in the sidebar. Initially the article reports “the substantial positive movement of outstanding deposits”, but if you enter a lower figure the text is corrected to “the strong decrease of outstanding deposits”, for example.According to CEO Jean Rauscher, Yseop works for the customer service departments of banks and telecommunications companies, and news sites operated by finance companies. It also supplies advanced services to agencies investigating stock market dealings. “To find out more about a company director our system will scan about 30 databases, including any criminal records, then automatically draft a resume,” Rauscher says.Robot writers may soon be commonplace. Yseop markets a version of its system for use in-house. Ultimately all large operations, which are obliged to produce large numbers of increasingly lengthy reports on all aspects of their business, will become potential customers. Rauscher can already picture office staff and robots working together efficiently. “Yseop would produce an outline or a first draft containing essential data and accurate figures,” he suggests. “Then a human would take over, rejig the rough draft, adding a few opinions and value judgments.”The system can also talk to humans, who in fact become its assistants. “If the algorithm realises some data is missing it will stop and ask for it. Once it has what it needs, it goes back to work,” Rauscher explains. So maybe office workers will soon be wondering whether their skills are complementary with the computer’s, or whether it would actually do better on its own.Online marketing is yet another field in which robot writers are already hard at work. Drawing on a range of academic research Labsense, a small startup in Paris, has compiled its own automated-writing code. It now works for online trading websites with large catalogues, with details of countless products, specification sheets, user manuals and such.Edouard de Ménibus, joint founder of Labsense, reckons the market has huge potential. “For example, almost 300,000 hotels worldwide are listed on travel sites but many of them lack a proper introductory text, or if they do have one it’s the same on all the sites,” he says. “Our system drafts a different text for each hotel and each site.” If a trading site does not have properly structured data, it can supply the ill assorted material it does have (press cuttings, brochures, technical specifications, user guides) and Labsense will compile a small, specific database.The company has recruited linguists to build up a corpus of terminology corresponding to the main sectors involved in online trading, including travel, household electronics, IT and entertainment. “Words are organised by semantic family in a logical sequence,” De Ménibus explains. “Our system produces sentences suited to specific contexts, and others specific to the product.”The priority target for Labsense technology is not humans, but other code, belonging to Google. “For Google to reference a site properly, it must display original texts, which it won’t find elsewhere and which contain the right keywords in the right places. We have automated this process,” he adds. “Just for hotel blurbs we’ve produced more text than a human could write in several lifetimes.”In the not so distant future De Ménibus plans to provide an online service for the general public, enabling everyone to access a robot writer. Who said there was already too much verbiage on the net?This article appeared inGuardian Weekly,which incorporates material from Le Monde
Mediatonic, PC/Mac, £7Let’s get something out of the way first: Hatoful Boyfriend is, indeed, a Japanese pigeon dating simulator. It is a game in which you romance pigeons. You, the central character, are not a pigeon – you are a girl, who is embarking on her second year at St Pigeonation’s Academy for Gifted Students, and every other student there is a bird.It is not, crucially, a pigeonhentaigame. This is not some grubby filthware, filled with lascivious coos and wandering wings, but an exploration of teenage romance – being unsure of each other’s desires, unable to read each other, and navigating the treacherous social minefield that is high school.But with pigeons. I should underline that fact – everyone else is a bird.The game does not let you forget this; it is not simply some dating sim where the devs have changed all the human boys to pigeon boys, say. Their limitations are well-known and often referenced. For instance, your homeroom teacher Mr Kazumaki is a quail, and he is worried that he will fly directly upwards into the ceiling when he is scared because that is what quails do.Hatoful Boyfriend, in true dating-sim tradition, is primarily text-based with still images of characters and backdrops flashing up behind; you click through paragraphs, make choices at certain junctures, and see how those play out.Will you, for example, choose to join the student council in an attempt to get closer to the dashing and noble (but terribly entitled) Sakuya? Will you train hard in gym to draw the attention of Okosan, the hyperactive track star? Will you investigate the tremendously creepy goings-on in the infirmary to shed light on Doctor Shuu, who is – and I do not say this lightly – the shiftiest-looking partridge I’ve ever seen?The characters – who, again, I must stress, are all talking birds – are weirdly well-developed, in a high-camp sort of way. There is something more to be found underneath the surface of every single one of them, and it doesn’t take much to bring it out of them; this is a kind game, mechanically, and it’s not keen on punishing you for actions you didn’t know you were taking unlike many other dating/choose-your-own adventure games I’ve played in the past.It is also a game that you must play more than once – around ten times, in fact – because there is a vast amount of story to be uncovered here. The fact that everyone is a talking bird and that you are the only human student is addressed only briefly in the initial playthroughs; there is an incredible sense of wrongness that bleeds throughout the whole thing. Why, for example, does our heroine live in a cave? Why, on her late-evening jog through the city, are there vistas of ruined skyscrapers, reams of empty streets? How did birds learn to cohabit with humans and, most importantly, how did they learn to speak?I’m reminded of Assassin’s Creed 2, of all things; Ezio could find glyphs hidden in the world that unlocked puzzles, and from that, exciting footage of stuff that was pretty crucial to a backstory that was – right up until Assassin’s Creed 3 turned up – fascinatingly strange. It broke up the weirdness behind the game (that humanity was overseen by mysterious alien creatures that we once worshipped as gods, and now that somehow feeds into Non-Stop Parkour) into bite-sized lumps, and it was a wonderful rabbit-hole to throw yourself down.Hatoful Boyfriend does the same; there are conspiracies at work, and things that are being left unsaid, and they are so vital to understanding what the hell is going on that I searched for them as hard as I could while - and this is important - going on dates with a rock dove.I wasn’t kidding when I said that you should play it ten times because (and I’m doing my best to avoid spoilers here) once you uncover some of the mysterious events going on in the school and the puzzle has just started to piece itself together, you are offered a ridiculous, over-the-top, three-hour-mega-adventure that bundles everything together in a package so large and unruly it hurt my head trying to take it in.Simply put, Hatoful Boyfriend is surprising; it is both so much more than a game about trying to start a life with a sickly rock dove, but at the same time, it makes the act of trying to start a life with a sickly rock dove both interesting and entertaining.You know how, even if you don’t like watching football, you can probably still enjoy a quick game or two on Fifa – but if you don’t like trains, you definitely won’t enjoy tooling around in Train Simulator 2014 for an afternoon? Hatoful Boyfriend is the Fifa of pigeon romance and you should buy it for that reason alone. It is a very clever, very charming thing.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamChrome OS can now run Android apps, no porting required &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaRon Amadeo:A few months ago at Google I/O, Google demoed Android apps running on Chrome OS. Today, Google is making that demo a reality by launching "App Runtime for Chrome (Beta)."Google is not opening the floodgates and loading a full Play Store with every Chromebook; instead, it is manually bringing over certain apps. "Over the coming months, we'll be working with a select group of Android developers to add more of your favorite apps so you'll have a more seamless experience across your Android phone and Chromebook," the company said in its announcement.For now, the feature is launching with four compatible apps: Duolingo, Evernote, Sight Words, and Vine. One app not mentioned was Flipboard, which was demoed at I/O.How Google's autonomous car passed the dirst US state self-driving test &gt;&gt; IEEE SpectrumMark Harris (who revealed how Google wanted California to pass its self-driving car based on computer modelling):IEEE Spectrum has now obtained the driving log of this test, and e-mails referring to it, under Freedom of Information legislation. Some of this information is not new. For example, Nevada officials shared that the Google's autonomous Toyota Prius passed the test almost immediately. What has not been revealed until now, however, is that Google chose the test route and set limits on the road and weather conditions that the vehicle could encounter, and that its engineers had to take control of the car twice during the drive.Mostlyself-driving. Also,Before the test, Google had written: "It will be hard to anticipate if the proposed demonstration will encounter several important environmental conditions: rain, snow/ice, fog, and heavy crosswinds. Additionally, the vehicles currently do not operate in snow, ice, or dense fog."Snow not a hazard in Las Vegas in May. It was 31C.What the watch industry thinks of the Apple Watch &gt;&gt; WatchesbySJXIn general, they don't think it's much of a threat. It's a "techno-toy". Might want to bookmark this one.Why wasn't Microsoft Office available on iOS/Android in 2011? &gt;&gt; QuoraDev Bala worked on Microsoft Office products and technologies between 2003 and 2010:I'll never forget being in SF for a focus group on Office Mobile the day the iPhone 3G came out. One of the killer scenarios they demoed as part of the launch was the built-in viewers for Office docs. Pinch, zoom, rotate and easily view Office docs via email attachments - it was all right there, and better than any "hypothetical product" I was testing in the focus group. Rather than adding 140 Excel formulas, they just made it easy and pleasant (!) to view a spreadsheet on a phone.  It was then and there I realized that the product team missed the core scenario - all people want to do with documents on their phone (for the most part) is just read them. No one is going to edit a PPT on their way to catch a flight in the airport and save it back to a SharePoint site, which is the type of scenario our engineers were losing sleep over (and ultimately delivered).Apple iOS 8 addresses iOS surveillance and forensics vulnerabilities &gt;&gt; Jonathan Zdziarski's DomainZdziarski presented a paper on iOS 7 at a recent conference pointing to potential vulnerabilities. Now he's looked at iOS 8:It appears that the threat of persistent wireless surveillance – my biggest concern – has been sufficiently addressed in iOS 8. Apple has also greatly reduced the exposure of Apple devices to commercial forensics tools. While I'm not yet sure how Apple now controls access to these deeper functions, it does appear that they have been better protected from abuse. Props and thanks to Apple for tackling a very complex and subtle problem that was difficult to explain.With respect to forensics, please be aware that this does not affect law enforcement's ability to send a device into Apple to be partially dumped as per their law enforcement process. It also does not prevent law enforcement from obtaining warrants to obtain copies of your iCloud data or other data stored on Apple servers. It does, however, protect you from a number of third party tools which can be abused by third parties to illegally invade your privacy. Consider that only recently, such "law enforcement" tools were used by hackers to steal nude photos out of celebrities' iCloud accounts.Apple Watch: asking why and saying no &gt;&gt; stratecheryBen Thompson:Cook was spot on when he noted that you can't just shrink a smartphone UI to the wrist. But that was exactly the problem with too many of the software demos: there were multiple examples of activities that simply make no sense on the wrist. For example:• There were 64 applications on the demo watch, and the tap targets are quite small• I can definitely see some compelling Siri use cases for the Watch, but scrolling through movies is not one of them. If you're looking for a movie you're almost certainly in a state of movement and mind that makes it possible to pull out your phone and use a screen much more suited to the task"We also looked at how you can carry your photos with you." Here's an idea: on your phone!• The Maps demo was the most frustrating: it included panning around, searching for a Whole Foods – including the phone number! – all activities that by definition mean you are stationary and can use your phone. But that's when the demo got really good.The failed 9 Sept. Apple livestream &gt;&gt; Simon Fredsted's blogI'm sure that at this point Apple and their streaming partner has done a complete investigation of the causes of the many problems of the stream. Here's what I think they have found:He doesn't think it's (just) having social media on the page.Why a secret Amazon-HTC phone pact fizzled &gt;&gt; The InformationAmir Efrati:Amazon had separately been working on its own high-end phone designs since around 2010, the same year it reached a tentative agreement to distribute the eventual product exclusively on AT&amp;T's wireless network in the U.S., according to people who were briefed about that deal.Eventually, Amazon decided it would handle the high-end phone on its own but would launch the lower-end device with HTC.At some point Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos opened the door to formal acquisition talks with HTC and left the ball in HTC's court. But the prospective seller, led by chairwoman and co-founder Cher Wang, didn't move forward despite plenty of support among HTC's upper ranks, according to two people briefed on the discussions."She's just not in it to be acquired," one of these people said.The Amazon-HTC phone partnership stayed intact into early 2014. The low-end phone was nicknamed the "Amazon Prime" phone by some of those involved with it because it was intended to be free or nearly free for Prime subscribers. The phone was also supposed to be available on all the major U.S. carriers, not just AT&amp;T.But when AT&amp;T, the top U.S. carrier, found out about the lower-end phone that would work across all carriers, it allegedly said it would withdraw support for the original, high-end Amazon phone. Amazon informed HTC that AT&amp;T had objected to the plans for the low end device, and Amazon wouldn't move ahead with it, according to people briefed on the conversations.Google wasn't too keen on it either, seeing its potential to fork Android. HTC might regret rebuffing Jeff Bezos.Apple Watch battery life — "charge nightly" &gt;&gt; Re/codeJohn Paczkowski:Sources tell me that Apple isn't yet happy with the watch's battery life, which isn't going to break any industry standards. "It's about a day right now," said one, adding that Apple is working on various modifications ahead of the device's 2015 launch to improve it. Reached for comment, Apple spokeswoman Nat Kerris declined to provide an estimate on expected battery life, but said the company expects users will charge their Apple Watches once daily. "There's a lot of new technology packed into Apple Watch and we think people will love using it throughout the day," Kerris said. "We anticipate that people will charge nightly which is why we designed an innovative charging solution that combines our MagSafe technology and inductive charging."Bzzzzzz.Here's What Everyone Was Really Talking About During Apple's Keynote (Hint: It's Not the New Features) | | Betabeat"The recap for those who DGAF about bigger screen sizes."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
As you watch in awe at golf pros’ accuracy at the Ryder Cup in two weeks’ time, take a moment to consider the impact technology has had on their respective swings. Increasingly, golfers are delving into the data related to their game and subsequently tweaking their technique, their club choice and more.Perhaps the best known use of data analytics in the sport is the employment of video analysis of the player’s swing. By taking high frame rate footage of the player hitting the ball, it’s possible to create 3D images that provide great insight into where the golfer needs slight improvements to get added power and accuracy.There are other ways golfers exploit all the data they create when making their way around the course. By taking in various data types - drive distance, putting quality, chipping ability, accuracy from the sand - players can learn about which bit of their game needs improvement. It’s also possible to attach sensors to clubs during practice, which will create streams of information on the swing, pinpointing precisely where shots have gone wrong or right. This could highlight why a drive was swinging to the left or right, or how spin could get the ball even closer to the hole once its on the green. Using GPS and historical data, drawn from the cloud, can also let the golfer know what clubs have been successful at certain points of the course in the past.For the amateur and pro alike, this data is now accessible over the standard mobile device, whether that’s an iPhone or Android smartphone, whatever. Indeed, this democratisation of high-quality data analysis can help every player improve their game.This combination of Big Data analytics, cloud and mobile has become common across other sports. Thanks to Moneyball, the 2011 film focusing on the Oakland A’s use of analytics to acquire players, many now understand the usefulness of data mining in baseball. Today, most teams in America’s top leagues use a form of “sabermetrics”.In the world of football, it’s believed the German national team used an analytics solution to determine which players were performing in different aspects of their play, whether that was passing accuracy, tackles made or metres covered on the pitch. Perhaps it was partly responsible for their success at this summer’s World Cup…All these technologies are providing similar benefits across the business world. Indeed, the business side of sport has shown what’s possible. When the NCAA Men’s Basketball Tournament for college teams in the US kicked off in 2013, HP decided to see what data it could bring together from social media feeds. It analysed 500,000 Twitter posts using a range of hashtag and keyword information. This would then be collated to visualise when people tweeted, from where, whether they were positive or negative and the influence they had.From a business’ perspective, such data could be incredibly useful in determining marketing strategies, improving customer service or simply gaining a better understanding of what people want. This could then be fed into cloud and mobile systems so the entire workforce has access to the insights the data provides.But to guarantee the accuracy, quality and safety of data, sports teams have had to invest heavily in protecting that information. A number of Premier League teams have already suffered as a result of hacks on their systems. Manchester City were embarrassed by a breach of their website over the summer, which led to a video being posted on their website related to the apparent transfer of FC Porto centre-back Eliaquim Mangala before the deal was done. Tottenham Hotspur and Barcelona have both had their Twitter accounts hacked in recent memory, indicating they weren’t adequately protecting their social media accounts.In the Formula One world, information security is even more critical. Teams know that if their secrets are leaked, especially those related to race strategy and car design, their competitors will benefit. Security issues can cause operational issues. In February this year,Marussia was hit by a computer virusduring testing in Bahrain, setting back the young team’s preparation for the upcoming season.The same goes for any business hoping to maintain their competitive advantage and their systems uptime. The past year has made it clear that security breaches can cause severe financial and reputational damage. After US retailer Target saw more than 40 million shoppers’ credit card data compromised, it suffered notable declines in revenue. The CEO and the chief security officer left just months after the hackers broke in.What’s become apparent over recent years is that Big Data, mobile, cloud and security have become major pillars within sport as well as the wider business world. It would appear these technologies are making an impact in almost every aspect of our everyday lives, whether at work or whilst on the couch watching Rory McIlroy sink another Birdie.TheDriving innovation hubis funded by HP. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled advertisement feature. Find out morehere.
4chan4chanhas been in the news recently, as the site that hostedhacked photographsof naked celebrities, includingJennifer Lawrence(you may have heard about this). But what is 4chan? Well, basically, it’s an aesthetically-ugly-as-sin image board which allows users to post pretty much anything. It was started by a teenage boy in his bedroom (obviously), originally as a means of sharingmangaandanime.Nowadays there are various boards dedicated to: gaming, porn,cosplay, and more porn. 4chan is pretty much a destination for trolls,lulz-seekers andfappingidiots, given that everybody posts anonymously. To be fair, there are also boards onfashionandmusic, andlolcatsdid originate on 4chan – so at least there’s one redeeming thing about it.4chan was originally set up to share manga and anime.Photograph: 4chan/Strike WitchesSee also:2048–widely successful sliding block puzzle game for web, iOS and Android2 Girls 1 Cup– something you should never ever watch, and definitelyNSFW. I’m not even linking to it. Do not Google.404– a not found error, when server cannot find content (eg. dead link, page deleted)501– not implemented error, for instance if a server is not responding or overloaded9GAG–platform for uploading and sharing user-made memes, gifs, images and videos, upvoted or downvoted and can be commented uponAppsIs there anything there isn’t an app for? Whatever operating system you are using, there will be tons of apps to download for your smartphone. Useful, entirely frivolous, well designed, badly designed, addictive games, fitness trackers – you name it.Apps perfectly complement the web; lots of us access the internetmore frequentlyby phone than desktop, especially when it comes to social media. And what did we do withoutGoogle Mapson our phones? How did we ever find our way anywhere? Did we all just end up in some poor dear’s garden when looking for an unfamiliar bus route while slightly worse for wear on a Saturday night? (Yes.)Apps, food, water = survival.Photograph: FocusMedia/Alamysee also:a/s/l–what people used to write inchatroomswhen asking for someone’s age, sex and location, before everybody knew everything about everyone on the internetAdele Dazeem–John Travoltahilariously mispronouncesIdina Menzel’s name at 2014 Oscars, incident goes viraladvice animals–image macro(image with humorous text) memes that feature animals or humans with caption text above and below, sometimes with a colourwheel as backgroundAdvice Dog– the original advice animal, consists of a cute puppy head on colourwheel background, giving advice that is either wrongheaded, ridiculous or unethicalAlexa– commerical traffic metrics and analytics site owned byAmazonalt.folklore.urban–known as AFU, alt.folklore.urban is a newsgroup on Usenet focused towards discussion of urban legend. One regular poster has since set upSnopesAngry Birds– Finnish-designedvideo gamewhich has flown off the app store shelves (over 12 million downloads on iOS). Gameplay in the original title consists of using a slingshot to fire wingless birds at pigs. There have been nine more incarnationsanime– 2D or 3D cartoon style originated in Japan, very popular online. Can be hand drawn or computer drawnAnonIB– image board similar to 4chan, frequented by hackers and trollsAnonymous– a vague network ofhacktavistsoften in the news for theirDDoS(distributed denial of service) attacks and trademark Guy Fawkes masks. The loosely-organised collective originated on 4chan around 2003. Anonymous havetargeted corporationssuch as Visa, as well as criminals such as child pornographers. Anonymous tend to differ from another hacking collective,LulzSec, by performing their attacks for political, activist reasons.“Anons” often wear Guy Fawkes masks, as popularised in V for Vendetta.Photograph: Action Press / Rex Features/Action Press / Rex FeaturesAOL– American multinational dealing in media, tech, online and digitalAPI– acronym for application programming interface. Essentially a set of code, tools and protocols which provide instructions for applications to communicate with one another. Basically APIs make your life easier byallowing programsto talk to one anotherApple– electronics and computing multinational responsible for iEverythingArs Technica– tech news website established in 1998.Edward Snowdenstarted his online lifeon the Ars Technica forum, posting as a user called TheTrueHOOHAAsk.com–formerly Ask Jeeves, it’s a question-formatted search engine. Jeeves was most popular in the late 90s, when for a little while its butler mascot was sort of the face of the internet. If you haven’t guessed that he was based onPG Wodehouse’s character then you need to spend less time on the internet and more time reading booksask.fm– anonymous question and answer forum, has come under fire for being the ideal platform forcyberbullies, and apparently,Islamic Statefightersavatar– graphical representation of an individual eg. in games, a character. On social media: an icon or profile pictureBitcoinWhen something internet-related makes it as a plot line onThe Good Wife, you know it’s really hit the mainstream.Bitcoinis acrypto-currency, which circumnavigates banks and credit card companies. A bitcoin is transferred from person to person via the internet. Bitcoins are bought and sold and kept in a digital wallet to avoid thedouble spending problem. But if that all seems a bit opaque, just watch our handy explainer, below.see also:badboy2–internet meme started when a user posted a photo on a body-building forum captioned “I’m 18, do I have potential?” – cue humorous, good natured photoshops galoreBad Luck Brian–meme started in 2012, featuring a teen in plaid sweater vest and braces, befalling a series of embarrassing situationsBebo–social network founded in 2005. Currently trying to make a comebackBejeweled– tile-matching game for mobile downloaded over 150 million times, copied byCandy Crush Sagabeta– in technology terms, beta is a term used to describe a trial-and-error period of a product or service, or a prototype before the fully realised thingbelfie– “a bum selfie” ie. a self-portrait of one’s butt. *headdesk*bitly–a popularURL-shortener and link analytics siteBing– web search engine created byMicrosoftbit– a bit, short for binary digit, is the smallest unit of information in a computerbitrate– the number ofbitsper second that can be transmitted along a digital network, ie. the speed at which units of information can be transferredBitTorrent–a service that speeds up downloads by breaking files up between fellow users. It is an originaltorrentprotocol supportingP2Pdata and file sharing. “Torrent” means a file that contains metadata; protocol is a format or set of rules for sharing data across networks, and P2P here meanspeer-to=peerBlogger–blog-publishing platform established in 1999 by Google, which uses blogspot.comsubdomainbounce rate– the bounce rate is a measure in traffic analysis which describes whether users leave the site straight away after visiting, or stay on the site. So the bounce rate is a percentage of people who only view one pagebrb– acronym meaning “be right back”browser-a web browser is software application for viewing content on the world wide web, eg.Internet Explorer,Chrome,Firefox,SafariBuffer– web and mobile app to manage social networks, especially scheduled postingbump– to revisit an old thread or posting on a forum by posting in it, thus “bumping” it to the top (especially employed if you receive no answer)Buzzfeed–internet media company, originially famed forlisticlesandgifs, has since expanded into news, political and investigative reportageClickbaitClickbaitis the media’s new obsession. Sometimes called linkbait, the word “clickbait” describes online content which is judged to be mostly lighthearted, less than robust and primarily focused towards hoovering up traffic. Basically, clickbait is geared towards getting people to click through to an article.Headlines therefore attempt to respond to the “curiousity gap” a reader experiences when they see a headline which doesn’t explain the full context of a story, but does pique the reader’s interest enough for them to click. This can either be an intriguing statement or a question. Positive, feel-good stories are also a big part of clickbait, as are CAPITAL letters and exclamation marks!!!An example of a ‘curiosity gap’ headline.Photograph: UpworthyBuzzfeed, and especiallyUpworthy, have pioneered the clickbait-y content and title type. Upworthy’s headlines, while at first interesting just for their novelty factor, have since become so annoying that it is estimated at least 17 people a week are killed being hit by computers thrown from windows in a rage. (“Click Here to Find Out the Strange Way 17 People Died This Week.”) Clickbait’s ultimate aim is to be shared, shared again ie. GO VIRAL.The OnionstartedClickhole, a site which parodies clickbait. A Twitter account,SavedYouAClickhas a mission to do exactly that, writing the answers to particularly clickbait-y headline questions.What. RT@Gawker: Is this amusement park ride giving women orgasms, or what?&mdash; Saved You A Click (@SavedYouAClick)September 2, 2014see also:Candy Crush Saga–tile-matching based game originally developed for Facebook, then mobile OS (operating systems). Often found on the Northern LineCAPTCHA–those squiggly, distorted letters or digits one is required to type to prove humannesschain emails– horrible period of the 90s when bored office workers would send round robins of multicoloured comic sans messages or begging letters from parents with Münchausen by proxyChatroulette– a chat website which pairs users randomly via their webcams. Created by a Russian 17-year-old, features a lot of masturbating menChrome– web browser developed by GoogleClickhole– parody clickbait site from the people behind The Onionclearnet– what people who use hidden internet applications call the regular net, also known as the “surface web”. The clearnet is indexed by search enginescloud– file storage where data is spread across several servers and locations, often accessed via the internetcookies– data sent from a website to a user’s web browser. It is a way for websites to record and stores users’ activity on that websiteCourage Wolf–advice animal meme giving inspirational, but extreme, adviceCSS–a computer language used to style web sites, and also abandpopular in the mid 00scyberbullying–when idiots think it is ok to bully people online – most victims being kids in high school – via social networks and messaging appsDogeThe meme which took the world by storm towards the end of 2013, and had us all chasing our tail in early 2014 about what the hell it all meant. Doge is the best kind of meme in that it shouldn’t be funny, but it is.“It involves superimposing broken English written in multi-coloured Comic Sans on to pictures of shiba inus, a small Japanese breed of dog known for its spirited stubbornness”,explains Alex Hern.It’s a rare example of a dog leading a meme, as opposed to the much more internet-friendly cat (as explained hereby Buzzfeed’s Jack Shepherd). Doge became such a staple of internet culture that it inspiredDogecoin(a variation of Bitcoin), which has so farfunded a Jamaican bobsleigh teamand arally car in the NASCAR race. Such impressive. Very wow.An example of the doge meme.Photograph: KnowYourMeme.comsee also:Daatch–mobile dating app for lesbian womendark internet–network hosts on the internet that are unreachable, often confused with deep web. Dark internet is a subsection of the deep webDAUs– “daily active users” of a website or internet productDeath Clock–popular website in the 90s predicting one’s date of death, according to their date of birth (bullshit, naturally)deep web–uses hidden internet apps to protect one from web crawlers and maintain privacy given search engines cannot access this contentDDoS–distributed denial of service attack, used by hackers to down a network, often by causing server overload. “Distributed” means the attack is coming from multiple machinesdevianART–online community to share user-made artworkDisapora– a nonprofit social network consisting of interconnected podsDigg–a news aggregator website for sharing popular contentDM– short for direct message, as on Twitterdog shaming–viral trend consisting of people taking pictures of their dogs next to handwritten signs detailing their dogs’ indiscretionsAn example of ‘dog shaming’.Photograph: Dogshaming.comdoxing–dumping a load of someone’s personal data online. The people who do this are the worstDraw Something– social drawing game originally developed for mobile, in which players guess what a friend has sketched. Bought by Zynga for $180 millionDropbox–service offering cloud storage and file synchronisation across mulitple platformseBayOh wow; the amount of time/money/stress we’ve all expended onebay. Who hasn’t found themselves staring at a screen at 2am, lightly dusted in Doritos crumbs, furiously refreshing the page to see if theirs is the winning bid on that original Spice Girls cassette from 96? Or constantly refreshing, sweating, hopin’ and a-prayin’ that someone outbids you, because you’ve blown your wages on a “french shabby chic armchair’” which is bigger than the actual square footage of your flat?The arrival of eBay’s app has just exacerbated this problem. Since eBay (originally called AuctionWeb) was founded in 1995, the following items have been listed for sale: F/A-18 Hornet fighter jet, Britney Spears’ hair, New Zealand, Nicolas Cage as a vampire, a ghost in a jar, and, er, the meaning of life.That time a cast of Pavarotti’s left leg was for sale.Photograph: eBaysee also:Edward Snowden–source of the biggest classified information leak in history, exposingNSAandGCHQsnooping, and other worldwide surveillance operationsegosurfer–person who Googles themselves or otherwise displays self-obsessed behaviour onlineELI5–(explain like I’m 5) asubredditwhere users can go to get concepts explained simplyemail– things you should never answer when on holidayencryption– encoding information so that only authorised peeps can see itemoji–ideograms, basically the lil’ graphic icons sent online and by textemoticon– :-) :-( :-/ :-O :-s &lt;3Ermahgerd–meme which consists of a girl with a brace and pigtails holding a series ofGoosebumpsbooks overlayed with phrases spelt phonetically. Nobody said memes were easy to understandFacebookSmall social network, which is struggling to get off the ground. So far only has1.23 billionmonthly active users, but I’m sure its founderMark Zuckerbergwill make it a success eventually.One day it will take off, afilmmight possibly be made of its origins, with a supporting role forJustin Timberlake. In an ideal world, it’d be floated on the stock market for $38 dollars a share, with acompany value of $104 billion. Unfathomably, Zuckerberg will become afashion iconfor his navy hoodies and pool sliders, inspiring a whole new style callednormcore. Then, people will start posting annoying statuses on the site, sharing boring links, and grandparents will join, driving you – weeping – into the arms ofTwitter.Facebook is a constant source of hilarity.Photograph: FacebookFail.comsee also:fanfiction–stories about fictional characters, often written in online fanfic communities and forums. Harry Potter and Twilight prove very popularFarmville–online game developed by Zynga, in which users tend to a virtual farmfav– the option to “favourite’ a tweet”, can be used for bookmarking, or as way of saying “I like this but not enough to retweet it, soz”feed– data format which provides constantly updated content (Twitter and Facebook use these, for example)Feedly– a popular news aggregation app for both web and mobileffs– acronym meaning “for fuck’s sake”FF– a hashtag employed on Twitter, only on Fridays, to highlight good accounts to follow (stands for “follow Friday”)Firefox–free and open source web browser developed byMozillaFirst World Problems– meme focusing on irritants and complaints from privileged people, otherwise known as “white whine”Flappy Bird–hugely popular side-scrolling 2D game for mobile devicesScreenshot from Flappy Bird game.Photograph: REX/REXFlickr– popular image and video hosting website with a social element, now also for mobile. Used by professionals as well as amateursFlipboard– a “personal magazine app” which aggregates articles and news into a magazine-like format on mobile devicesfml–acronym for “fuck my life”, used in a humorous context when things go wrongFoursquare–search-and-discover mobile app, allows users to review destinations and places and leave comments, resulting in personalised recommendationsFriends Reunited– one of the first popular “social networks”, Friends Reunited is still going, connecting high school sweethearts everywhere (in the UK)ftw–acronym for “for the win”fwm–acronym for “fuck with me”furry– a “furry” is someone who is interested in anthropomorphic animal characters.Idkeither but there are huge online communities out thereGifGifs have acquired a bad rep, namely because people who don’t likeBuzzFeedand other gif-reliant sites get fed up with them, but the truth is gifs are awesome. That the whole range of human emotions can be captured in a moving image around 2MB in size is a wonderful thing indeed. Or – as below – a raccoon stealing cat food from directly under the nose of a cat.There’s also some controversy (or should that becontro-versy) as to how gif is actually pronounced. The inventor of the gif has gone on record saying that it is “gif” with a soft g. So naturally 99% of us have decided to pronounce it gif with a hard g.see also:g2g– slang meaning “got to go”. Wish we could use in real life,tbhGchat–chap application within Gmail (Google’s email application) which gets us all through the working dayGeoCities–a web hosting service currently owned by Yahoo! which was home to many shoddy user-built websites in the 90s, grouped in “cities”Giphy– one of the best gif databases aroundGood Guy Greg–advice animal meme which consists of a photo of a smiling guy smoking a marijuana joint, characterised by kind or genuine acts and behaviourGoogle–never heard of it. Anybody?Google+–Google’s social network which, at the last count, had three active usersGrindr–Hook-up app for gay and bisexual men, usesgeolocationtools (ie. determines the locations of users, and recommends those nearby)Gramfeed– an app which uses Instagram’s API to pull together images on the social network by location, user, or time and dateGrooveshark–free radio and music streaming website. Copyright violations led to its app incarnation being removed from Google Play and Apple’s app storesGrumpy Cat–famous internet cat with a perma-grumpy appearance, is all of our spirit animalHashtagBack in the olden days a hash symbol was just a neglected button on your landline phone. Now, a hashtag is an inherent part of how we communicate online. A hashtag is the simplest form of metadata tag which allows users on social networks (in particular Twitter, Facebook and Instagram) to categorise their posted content into subject matter or topic, and allows other users to search for these. Essentially, hashtags act as signifiers (shout out toRoland Barthes).In 2014, the term wasaddedto the Oxford English Dictionary. Hashtags can be used at the beginning of posts, mid-post, or at the end. It doesn’t really matter – as long as they’re not 134 characters long in a 140-character limited tweet, which is just annoying. Trending hashtags can be related to pop culture subjects, or be utilised for more political purposes. Mostly though, they’re just about5SOSorOne Direction.#Hashtag skit with Jimmy Fallon and Justin Timberlake.see also:Habbo Hotel– now known as Habbo, HH was an online hangout for teens allowing users to create their own avatars and socialise in an online “hotel” and hotel rooms. As a former user, I’ve only just realised how dodgy a concept this ishacktivism– the use of hacking and other computer processes for political endsHampster Dance– otherwise known as the dancing hamster. TheHampster Dancewas a video of animated hamsters dancing to a version of Whistle Stop, a song by Roger Millerheaddesk– portmanteau slang to describe slamming your head on your desk in frustration and/or disbelief, usually at someone else’s stupidityhmu–acronym meaning “hit me up” ie. get in touch with meHootsuite– social media management dashboardHotmail– acquired by Microsoft in 97, was then one of the most popular email clients, since much cooled. In 2013 Hotmail was replaced withOutlook.comHyperlapse– time-lapse video app for mobile, developed by Instagramhyperlink– a normal link, basically. (Some people like to sound clever)InstagramOften disparaged because of the number of people using the social mobile photography app to take pictures of their lunch, the main concern here should be how Instagram is fucking with future historians.How will the Dan Snows of 2050 be able to tell when pictures were taken, if they’re all a mixture of sepia, 70s grain and washed-out hues? Basically, 2014 will look the same as 1972 through the lens of Instagram (ok, so pictures have time and date stamps, but ssh, you know what I mean).Of course, the truth is Instagram is rather a charming app which has brought easy, fun and quick photography to the masses, murdering the point-and-shoot market in cold blood. Plus, everybody’s life looks better inEasybird. Instagram now also supports video function, and wasacquired by Facebookfor $1 billion in 2012.see also:I Can Has Cheezburger?–a website featuring lolcats and other memes, which now also owns sitesKnowYourMeme.comandFAILblogice bucket challenge– 2014 viral campaign to raise awareness of motor neurone disease, via celebrities pouring buckets of ice-cold water onto their headsIM– short for instant messageImgur–pronounced “imager” – but I still say it “imger” – the site curates images and sorts them relative to popularity. They often end up going viral on redditImpact font– the font of choice for advice animals and many memesIndiegogo– crowdfunding site founded in 2008infographic–pictorial representation of data and information often used onlineIRC–internet relay chat, theprotocolthat allows IMsIRL– acronym for “in real life” ie. offlineJavascriptJavascriptis essentially the programming language of the web. It is mostly used to create interactive elements on websites, which will work across different web browsers. Most of those snazzy polls and quizzes and interactive widgets on the websites you look at during lunch are probably built with JavaScript code. Unlike HTML for instance, JavaScript is not a markup code used for static elements. HTML and JavaScript, however, can be bedfellows and sit in the same file, usually by using the &lt;script&gt; tag.An example of JavaScript code.Photograph: codeobssessed.comsee also:j/k–online slang for just kidding, joke or jokingJustin.tv– was a website for allowing users to stream video online, separated into channels, closed in August 2014Justpaste.it–web text and image sharing service, recently in the news due to its popularity amongst Islamic State fighters as a means for propagandisingJQuery–free open source JavaScript library designed to simplify manipulation of HTML and CSSKickstarterKickstarterwas kickstarted in 2009. Along withIndiegogoandPledgeMusic, KickStarter is a crowdfunding website, which hosts projects people need money to fund, and allows backers to donate in fixed amounts in return for something in relation to the project (ie. the finished product, tickets, memorabilia etc). For instance: if one was funding a film, backers might receive a DVD of the film, or premiere tickets, or a poster, depending on how much they donated.Creators have up to 60 days to raise the money they need (but at present can only be from Ameirca, UK, Canada, the Netherlands, New Zealand or Australia; backers can be from anywhere). Projects fall into 13 categories, including: Art, Film and Video, Fashion and Technology. Significant projects have included theCoolest Coolerwhich is the most funded project ever ($13 million);Crystal Bacon, astrap-on beard, aDoctor Who rap album, and apotato saladwhich rasied over $55,000.Celebrities such asAmanada PalmerandZach Braffhave come under fire for using the platform, despite being not exactly poor.see also:Kik–a message app for mobiles, popular with young people, which has a built-in browserKim Kardashian: Hollywood–game for mobile OS featuring the reality star, which inexplicably took the world by storm in the spring of 2014KnowYourMeme–your source for absolutely everything meme-relatedLil’ BubLil’ Bubis the most famous kitty on the internet afterGrumpy Cat. Grumpy Cat might be quite grumpy that Lil’ Bub gets her own entry, while she was relegated to a footnote, but such is the power of the gif. Lil’ Bub was born with several genetic mutations; she has no teeth, her tongue permanently hangs out, and she is also polydactyl. Most importantly, however, she is cute as a button.Lil’ Bub’s career has seen herwrite a book,star in a movie, and host her ownshow. She’s alsomet Robert De Niro– and, in a moment which crashed servers around the world – Grumpy Cat.One of the most important meetings in the history of catkind.see also:lamebooking–writing the most yawn-inducing, boring crap on FacebookLimeWire–was a free P2P file sharing site, mostly used for downloading music. It is currently subject to a court-ordered injunction relating to copyright infringementLinkedIn–a business-orientated social network, so no pics of drunk mateslmao– “laughing my arse off” ie. you find something funnyLMGTFY–a brilliant site called “Let me Google that for you”. When peopleask you questions which they should just Google themselves ffs,send them this linkLockerz –was an e-commerce startup which allowed users to browse content, and in doing so, earn points which resulted in discountslol– acronym meaning “laugh out loud”, or,if you’re David Cameron, “lots of love”lolz– variation on the aboveLulzSec– a hacker group which claimed to have downed the CIA website. LulzSec mostly did not hack for profit or political purposes, rather just for “the lulz”; to cause mayhem, essentially, and expose big corporations’ poor securityLycos– search engine and service provider encompassing hosting, email, site building, blogging. It has a cute black labrador as its brand ambassadorMediumThe web, much to everybody’s surprise – and especially to the surprise of traditional newspapers and media outlets – has become a home for high quality long-form jounalism. There are many beautifully designed online-only publications out there, combining the best writing with stunning photography.One of the most interesting isMedium. Created by the guys behindBlogger, Medium is a wonderfully handsome platform for writers (any writer) to write long pieces on any subject. It also has a social element, allowing writers to open their work up to others during the editing process.Matteris a magazine hosted by Medium.Screenshot of Medium’s homepage.Photograph: Mediumsee also:Matter– a magazine collection hosted by MediumMegaUpload– was a company founded byKim Dotcom. It was shut down by the US DoJ due to its file-sharing and hosting activities, particularly Megavideo. Dotcom has since established a successor calledMegameme– image, video, text – mostly humorous – that is spread, copied, added to, and makes its merry way around the internetzMemeGenerator–a web and mobile app allowing users to create memesMenshn–ill-fated social network set up by…ex-Tory MPLouise Mensch. She’d probably prefer you never to menshn itMiaow–new randomised message app for mobile, including chatrooms and one-one-one chat, mostly flooded with pornthe Million Dollar Homepage– some jammy kid created a page selling advertising space and became a millionaire back in 2005MSN messenger–RIP. A fondly remembered web-based IM application for kids slinging their bags down at 5pm and firing up the dial-up to chat to friends they’d literally spent the whole day with and parted from less than an hour agoMySpace– It’s still going. The social network which peaked between 2005-2008 is now part-owned by Justin Timberlake. It was where the selfie first birthed (complete with outstretched arm, pout, side-fringe)Nicolas CageThere’s something aboutNicolas Cagethat just makes him perfect meme material. Perhaps it’s his over-the-top acting style, or his woebegone facial expression, or his low, confused mumble, or the fact he’s lovably weird – nobody really knows. But Nicolas Cage was basically made for the internet. He’s even aware of it himself. In a2013 interviewwith the Guardian, he said:The internet has developed this thing about me – and I’m not even a computer guy, you know? I don’t know why it is happening. I’m trying not to… lemme say this: I’m now of the mindset that, when in Rome, if you can’t beat ’em, join ’em.One of the greatest Nic Cage things on the internet isBest Scenes from the Wicker Man, a montage of brilliantly over-acted clips from the 2006 remake. Then there’sNic Cage as everyone, and his turn atYour Argument is Invalid. Oh, and the time a woman emailed a covering letter for a job and instead of attaching her CV, accidentally attachedthis photoof Nicolas Cage instead.Nicolas Cage as Miley Cyrus in her infamous video for Wrecking Ball.see also:nailed it–originally a term for achiveing something difficult, but used sarcastically on the internet when users fail brilliantly short at attempts on Pinterest crafts and projectsNapster– originally, a P2P filing sharing site to download music, popular in the early 00s and founded bySean Parker. Has since become a legit streaming serviceNeknominate– viral sensation which encompassed people being filmed chugging alcohol and then nominating other people to also act like an idiot on camera, spread rapidly on FacebookNetflix– an on-demand TV and movie streaming service which has taken the world by storm, especially with its original programming, which includesHouse of CardsandOrange is the New Blackngl– internet slang for “not gonna lie”no makeup selfie– was already a trend on the internet before it became a means ofraising money for Cancer Research. Before its charitable incarnation, it was often unintentionally amusing when #nomakeupselfies were clearly adorned with lashings of mascaraNSFW– “not safe for work”, basically letting you know:do not fire this up where your boss can see itOw.lyLinks are long. Links used to be so long that they’d resemble a game ofNokia snaketwo seconds before you died. But no longer! URL shorteners saved us from slugs that went on for miles, and clipboards weighed down with forward-slashes and keywords.Ow.ly(part of HootSuite),Bitly,t.co,Goo.gland the rest have freed us from the shackles of bulging address bars, and allowed us space to breathe in our tweets – a feeling akin to loosening one’s belt buckle after a massive Sunday roast. O thank you Ow.ly, you are wise indeed.Ow.ly’s logo.Photograph: HootSuite/Ow.lysee also:OTP–acronym meaning “one true pairing” in fanfic communities, for example: Ron and HermioneOOO– meaning an out of office email replyOP– “original poster” – the first post in a discussion thread, or person who posted itopen source– open source software, which promotes universal access by allowing free license to a product’s design or blueprintoverly attached girlfriend– a meme consisting of an image of a girl taken on webcam, overlayed with text nodding towards a clingy or obsessed person. The original girl in the photo, Lana, has since become an internet celebrityPinterestIf you’re anything like me, your hard drive is overrun with random pictures you’ve downloaded or screen-grabbed from the internet: stunning photography, humorous memes, a stock image of those boots you want to buy but will probably wait till the sale –Pinterestwas established to capitalise on people like us (especially the boots part).Pinterest is a website which allows users to “pin” images to boards, like a traditional mood board used in fashion or design practice. Each image is known as a “pin” and each board is themed. Adding “pins” is easy and especially with various Pinterest extensions available for browsers. Fashion, interior design and are all popular on the site. Many brands also run official Pinterest pages.Established in 2010, Pinterest is interesting in that it is incredibly popular with women in the US. One 2012 study even put its Amreican traffic from female users as high as83%. The main problem with Pinterest is it serves as a visual reminder of all the most beautiful things in the world you will probably never be able to achieve/afford/get remotely close to. *Pins topless picture ofZac Efron*Homepage of Pinterest.Photograph: Pinterestsee also:P2P–stands for for peer-to-peer. Computer network in which each device acts as a server, removing the need for a central server, thus facilitating file-sharingPGP–“Pretty Good Privacy”. A data encryption and decryption programThe Pirate Bay– most popular website which facilitates file sharing by P2P networks.ISPsin many countries have blocked the site, butproxy versionsremainPhotobucket– an image hosting and sharing website, which hosts over 10 billion imagesplanking– viral trend which involved people lying face down with their legs together and arms by their sides in the most ludicrous situation they could findPutLocker–was a file-hosting site and became popular after Megaupload’s demise, has since becomeFiledrivepwnd–variation of “owned” ie. when you beat, defeat or humiliate a sworn enemyQTWTAINQTWAIN is an acronym for “questions to which the answer is no”. Basically any question theDaily MailorThe Sunposes is a good place to start with this one.ARE IMMIGRANTS MURDERING US ALL?#QTWTAIN.IS KATE MIDDLETON EXPECTING QUADRPULETS?#QTWTAIN. Questions to which the answer is no are usually so stupid and obviously deserving of a no answer, or none at all, that they are verging on the rhetorical. The Independent even had a blog dedicated toQTWTAIN.QTWAIN is also known as “Betteridge’s law” after tech journalistIan Betteridge. Although the concept has been around a long time.#QTWTAINRT@JohnRentoul: Can anyone translate this@rupertmurdochtweet?https://t.co/XJdyb1jmZn&mdash; Beckie Smith (@Beckie_Smith_)September 10, 2014see also:Quora–a question and answer website, users collaborate to edit answersQuickmeme.com–one of the most popular meme maker and sharing sitesRedditRedditbills itself as “the front page of the internet”, which is somewhat awkward, given thatDiggcalls itself “the homepage of the internet” (fight fight fight!).redditis essentially an old style bulletin board to which users post interesting links, texts or pictures. Content is then either “upvoted” or “downvoted” by registered users, which determines its place on a page.Users do not have to provide an email to register, or register via a social network. Redditors are a very tight community and adhere to a certain set of values known as “reddiquette”. Don’t obviously post things in the wrong subreddits or self-promote, and don’t troll as you will be called out.Content is organised into subreddits, which are essentially subject matter or genre channels. Some of the most famous includeELI5(Explain Like I’m 5),AMA(Ask Me Anything),Internet is BeautifulandTIL(Today I Learned). But there are also very niche subreddits, and very dark ones. Mostly though, reddit is a great source to find interesting, humorous or intriguing content. Making it onto the front page of reddit is the internet equiavlent of winning Olympic gold.The company was started in 2005 and its biggest shareholder is Advance Publications, parent ofConde Nast. Which brings us to the brilliant realisation that reddit andVogueare owned by the same people.The Guardian editor Alan Rusbridgertook partin an AMA.Photograph: The Guardiansee also:revenge porn–horrible people think it’s a good idea to post naked pictures and videos of their exes, everyone else thinks they are heinousretweet– when a Twitter user republishes someone else’s tweet to their own timeline (if doing this by quoting a tweet, users will add “RT” to text of tweet)Rickrolling– trolling trend which saw content links redirect to the YouTube video of Rick Astley’s “Never Gonna Give You Up”ROFL– “rolling on the floor laughing”RSS– a web feed format which delivers continuously updated content. Popular choices include Bloglines, after the death ofGoogle ReaderSelfieIn case you’ve been living under a rock since the camera phone was invented, you are probably already aware of what a “selfie” is, especially as it wasaddedto theOxford English Dictionaryin August 2014. The definition the OED give is thus:A photograph that one has taken of oneself, typically one taken with a smartphone or webcam and shared via social mediaThat’s as good a definition as any, and yet some peoplestill manage to get it wrong. Just to be clear: a selfie is not a just a photo someone posts with them in it. Nor is it a photo in which a selfie is being taken. That is literally just a picture of somebody holding a phone up to their face. Selfies have birthed many spin-offs: theshelfie(a picture of one’s bookcase), the belfie (a self-portrait of one’s bum), and thenomakeup selfiewhich earlier this year raised millions for charity.They have also become incredibly popular with celebrities and politicians, who seem to think that their poll ratings will go up when they mug into a camera rather than, you know, put forward decent policies that mean we can pay our rent etc. Famous selfies have includedastronauts in space, a womancrashing a football fieldand Ellen DeGeneres’selfie at the Oscars, which became the most retweeted tweet of all time.Aki Hoshide takes an average selfie.Photograph: Aki Hoshidesee also:Safari–web browser created by Apple and installed on their devicesSalad Fingers– creepy animation series created in 2004Second Life– online virtual world in which avatars interact with each other, fly about, have relationships, build thingssfw– “safe for work”, so nothing that will get you fired if it pops up in your browsershipping–creating a relationship between characters in a fanfic scenarioSilk Road–an online market place, part of the dark internet. Users are able to browse anonymously without traffic monitoringSnapchat–a mobile messaging app which sends videos, pictures and chats which self destruct after up to 10 seconds. Often employed to send naked selfiesSnopes– an urban legend and rumours site, which aims to accredit or debunk. Founded by Barbara and David Mikkelson, a Californian couple who met on the AFU newsgroup of UsenetSpiderOak–back up tool for web and mobile allowing users to upload, store, sync and share (as recommended by Edward Snowden)Spotify– music streaming service, now available as web and mobile applicationStrutting Leo–a photoshop meme in which a photograph of a carefree Leonardo Dicaprio on the set of Inception is superimposed into various scenariosStumble Upon– a website which recommends content to its users based on thumbs up/thumbs down, as well as acting as an aggregation and bookmarking sitesubtweet–mentioning somebody on Twitter without @-mentioning them, a bit like talking behind someone’s back, but not always in a bitchy waysurface web–the regular internet, anything a search engine can reachTrollingThere have always beentrollsin the world – it’s just that the internet has built more bridges. Trolls are not one homogenous group, there are different types and level of troll. Some trolls, for instance, are trolling just by posting or commenting on something other than the subject under discussion, moving it off-topic. This can be intentional or not. Most of us think of trolls however, as people posting comments or other content topurposely upset, belittle, harass, annoy, bully or offend individuals.Again, there are extremes of trolling and mid-level trolling. Mid-level trolling might be a sarcastic remark which adds nothing to a thread or debate; extreme trolling is seen in likes ofhorrific misogynistic abusesome female journalists and public figures face on Twitter (among others). In an example of analogue laws catching up with digital, this has recently resulted incriminal cases.There have been academic studies published about trolls, but it doesn’t take a 50-page peer review journal to tell you that these are basically just pricks withnothing better to do.The ‘Trollface’, often posted in response to a troll.Photograph: KnowYourMeme.comsee also:TBT– short for Throwback Thursday. Hashtag employed on Instagram and Twitter as an excuse to post cute pics of yourself as a child or show off about earlier achievements/holidays/ker-azy nights outTim Berners-Lee– oh, only the BLOODY INVENTOR OF THE WORLD WIDE WEBTinder– mobile dating app, connected to Facebook, which allows users to swipe left or right depending on whether they want to be matched with somebodyTom– everybody’s original friend on MySpace (full name: Tom Anderson. He also co-founded the company. Good job, Tom)Tom, our first friend, before anyone had even heard of Mark Zuckerberg.Photograph: MySpace.comTor– Tor is software to ensure online anonymity as part of the fightback from overreaching surveillance and analysis. Its logo is an onion, so there’s thattorrent– a torrent is a file which basically contains metadata about other files and folders, allowing them to be distributed and found more easilyTout– social network which allows users to create 15-second videos, similar to Vine. Basketball player Shaquille O’Nealused a toutto announce his retirementTumblr– very popular micro-blogging platform and social network, which allowers users to post gifs, text, videos , which can then be “reblogged”Tweetdeck– a social media management dashboard. Some people prefer Tweetdeck’s UI to HootsuiteTwitch– website which streams live gameplay and is hugely popular, acquired by Amazon for $1 billion in September 2014Twitter– 140 characters to say something witty/informative/intelligent, becoming an ever more impressive source for content and newsUrban DictionaryIt’s the one-stop place to understand slang; it’s the Rosetta Stone of the web. If someone tweets or Gchats you a term you don’t understand, you can just fire upUrbanto find the definition. Because, ngl, sometimes slang – and internet slang especially – can be confusing.Urban Dictionary works a bit like Wikipedia, in that its users create the content. Each definition submitted for a word or phrase is either given the thumbs up or thumbs down by readers; the higher the number of thumbs up it receives, the more prominent it will appear on the site. You have to sign in with Facebook or Google+.A definition on Urban Dictionary.Photograph: UrbanDictionary.comsee also:UI–short for ‘user interface’. It is the set of commands and menus through which the user will communicate with and navigate a program or website. Ideally, you want this to be clean, good-looking and easy to useUpworthy– aggregating content site dealing heavily in clickbaitUsenet– one of the oldest computer network communications systems, Usenet is still going strongUtorrent– free torrent client owned by BitTorrent, facilitating P2P file sharingUX –stands for “user experience”. How a person responds to, say, a particular program, app or web browserVineCynics will point toVineand say it is proof of our ever decreasing attention span, fans (*raises hand in the air enthusiastically*) will tell you Vine is a great little app to display creativity, inform and document. Vine was established in June 2012 and snapped up by Twitter just four months later.Users can shoot and edit video up to six seconds long using the app, which was themost downloadedfree app for iOS in April 2013. Its stop-start format lends itself to brilliantly creative compositions and stop-motion art pieces. Humour videos do well, as do animals and news. Journalists are alsoincreasingly usingVine as a tool.The below Vine has been looped (watched once) over 32 million times.see also:vaguebooking– an irritatingly vague Facebook status used to solicit attentionVevo– music video hosting service, the online MTV, if you will. Owned by Universal, Sony and GoogleVimeo– video-sharing site allowing users to upload, share, view and embed videosviral– when something is shared and passed around the internet at a rapid rateVK.com–a Russian social networking site popular in Eastern EuropeWikipediaAccording to Alexa,Wikipediais thesixth most visitedwebsite in the world with500 millionactive users a month. There are32,695,787 articleson Wikipedia (and probably more by the time you finish this piece) and287 supported languages.The free online encyclopedia is hosted by the nonprofitWikimedia Foundation, founded byJimmy Walesin 2003, (and currently led byLila Tretikov). It’s hard to remember a world in which Wikipedia didn’t exist; schoolkids had to actually do their homework, folk couldn’t cheat at pub quizzes, and politicians’ deaths weren’t documented seconds after they’d breathed their last.Wikipedia is a truly fascinating resource, and a perfect example of the internet as educator and collaborator. However, the fact that it is open to anybody to contribute (Wikipedians) can sometimes affect articles’ quality or accuracy, and the site has been host to many pranks and hoaxes. However, the community of editors works fast to ammend these. Wikimedia Foundation also has a number of spin-offs, including:WikiData,WikiquoteandWikisouce. And what does “wiki” mean, exactly? It’s theHawaiian wordfor “fast”.Jimmy Wales, founder of Wikipedia. Suki DhandaPhotograph: Suki Dhandasee also:Wayback Machine–a digital archive of the world wide web. Well worth a lookWAYN–social travel network “Where Are You Now?” which aims to connect people worldwidewbu–slang for “what about you?”Weibo– hugely popular micro-blogging site in China. However has since been overtaken by traffic from Qzone, a social networkWhatsApp– very popular mobile instant messaging app which uses data or WiFi connection. Acquired by Facebook for $19 billion in February 2014Wikileaks– nonprofit online organisation responsible for news leaks and classified information. Its founder Julian Assange is currently holed up in the Ecuadorian embassy in LondonWhisper–free iOS and Android app which allows users to post messages anonymously, consisting of text over a picture. The least handsome app in existenceWordpress–hugely popular free, opensource blogging tool and CMS.XxxTriple-dot-xis a sponsored top level domain name suggested for websites which offer pornographic content; the domain is not mandatory. First touted in 2004, the domain was first available in April 2011 after being approved by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann) which administers internet addresses. This, despite the US governmentrejecting its proposalin 2007.Supporters of the domain say it helps users to avoid fraudulent, virus-ridden sites and is helpful to parents who could block the domain. This is what worries internet freedom campaigners who think the domain could be a gateway to censorship on the web, setting a precedent. Icann has approved many more suffixes of late, including.london, expanding availablegTLDs. You could have anything you wanted – at afee of $185,000(and that is just a proposal fee).So, this was the stock image available for ‘xxx domain’.Photograph: James Blinn / Alamy/AlamyY U No GuyY U No?is a meme and a great means of expressing a particular issue which frustrates, annoys, upsets, or angers one in a simple and concise (and often hilarious) way. The original Y U NO? meme template was first introduced by LOLTumblrWallpapers and was reblogged almost 10,000 times. After the template was uploaded toMemeGenerator, it became ubiquitous on the internet.The meme takes the form of a stick-figure man, inspired by a Japanese sci-fi manga, with his arms oustretched and an outraged look on his face. It works especially well with surreal, humorous frustrations, or frustration that stems from genuinely illogical things, or frustration widely shared. For example: “USB plug – y u no fit in right way first time?”“Photoshop–y u no sell photos?”Photograph: MemeGeneratorsee also:Yahoo!–multinational focusing on internet services and productsYahoo! Answers–Q&amp;A site run by Yahoo!, a source of great hilarity due to the randomness/idiocy of questions frequently askedyfrog– web and mobile image-hosting service run byImageShack, used often to share links to photos and videos on TwitterYo!–mobile messaging app which consists of people sending the word “yo!” to one another. Nothing else to see here, but somehow it’s a nice way to tell someone you’re thinking of them (without the effort of actually having to converse)yolo– acronym for “you only live once”. Popularised by rapper Drake. Often used sarcastically when one does something entirely mundane or stupidYouTube–the website responsible for Justin BieberZyngaZyngadevelops social games that are playable via app or on social networking sites, rather than traditional games consoles. What I’m telling you here is that Zynga is responsible forFarmVille. And FarmVille 2. It is also the reason why everyone went through that period of being sent notifications to play Texas Hold’em.CityVilleis Zynga’s most successful game to date, at one point with up to10 million DAUs. The company has taken advantage of a broadening gaming market, especially the increasing interest from people who would not traditionally be thought of as gamers, as a result of mobile and social platforms.Zynga’s active users have dropped off sharply in 2014,losing 63%of its audience. The company hopes that its acquisition of British gaming firmNaturalMotionwill help to reverse its fortunes. Its game are also available to playin-browser.A screengrab of FarmVille. ZyngaPhotograph: Zyngasee also:Zoopla– the property website and mobile app on which we lose ten hours per week searching for houses we’ll never be able to afford.Rightmove, you too. *weeps*Anything you’d like to see added? Drop your comments, as ever, in the thread below
Activision; PlayStation 3/PlayStation 4/Xbox 360,/Xbox One; £50/$59.99; 16+Since the first vague details were leaked onto the web three years ago, people have been struggling to describe Destiny. With its constant action and grand space opera narrative, it is definitely a science fiction shooter. But, players also start with a basic character, which they then customise and upgrade with new weapons, armour and items, so it is definitely a role-playing adventure. And then it is a massively multiplayer online game too, because wherever you go in Destiny – and you can go to Earth, the Moon, Venus, Mars and elsewhere in the solar system – you bump into other players having their own adventures.Merging these three different genres into one cohesive experience is a technical achievement that is beyond compare in the current industry. It is magnificently impressive. If you like, you can play through Destiny’s story missions alone, digging deeper into its tale of humanity making contact with alien forces and largely regretting it. Or you can team up with friends, or strangers you meet on the way, and try those missions together.Alternatively, you can opt to go on patrols, freely exploring each planet – mostly to get into more tussles and to search for hidden loot. If you want to fight other people, there is the Crucible, a selection of traditional competitive multiplayer shoot-em-up modes. Everything you do earns experience points which levels up your character, opening new skills and luscious consumables.It all works beautifully. It’s easy to find people, easy to start escapades. Recent multiplayer titles like Battlefield 4 and Grand Theft Auto Online have been beset by technical difficulties, but Destiny functions smoothly with only the odd server drop-out.And, oh wow, it is beautiful. The colony ships looming above the rusted cars and wrecked cosmodrome of Old Russia; the craggy mountains of the moon, seemingly piercing the starry infinity above them; the abandoned cities of Venus, lost amid weird alien flora. The presentation, the attention to detail, from fictitious technologies to corporate logos, is superlative.And yet… there is something missing at the heart of it all. The story, set hundreds of years in the future, doesn’t help. You are a Guardian (good name that) zooming around the solar system piecing together the origins of the Traveler, a giant alien moon thing that once befriended humanity and helped us into an era of technological advance, before being beaten unconscious by some sort of space evil. You’ve got to wake it up and save Earth, and you are aided by a flying robot with the voice of Game of Thrones star Peter Dinklage.It sounds bloated and ridiculous and it is. But there is no sense of irony or fun in this universe – its narrative, its emotional throughline, is as cold as the hull of a spacecraft. Bungie, the developer of the game, and the team responsible for the epic Halo series of shooters, has clearly done a lot of research to build its fiction - the Destiny world is a rich amalgam of myths and fantasy tropes; the alien races that you fight – the Fallen, the Hive, the Vex – all have military hierarchies and back stories inspired by Tolkien, Asimov and a dozen other genre writers, as well as Roman and Medieval history.These extraterrestrial tribes are varied and sometimes challenging – but the AI is largely predictable so behaviours can quickly be learned and exploited. If you have a decent sniper on your fire team, and build up a couple of titans with strong armour and upper-level rocket launchers, you’re in control. For all the narrative investment, then, you’re facing a menagerie of bullet fodder, from the lowly prancing Dregs, to the gigantic Barons and Princes who batter you with rockets and stomp about the place like heavily armoured children at a disappointing birthday party.In short, the infrastructural brilliance hides a conservative game design ideology. Each story mission begins with some dryly intoned lore, then you run to a location, reach a choke point, shoot stuff, progress a little, new choke point, shoot stuff. Peter Dinklage decides he has to access a mainframe, so you shoot waves of monsters while he’s doing that. Then the mission is over. It is highly conventional old-school shooter level design.Elsewhere, the Patrol quests offer some free-roaming fun, and exploring these spectacular planets is a real rush for a few hours. Then you discover that the eerie landscapes are largely empty, save for groups of regenerating baddies and some “collect-ten-of-these-things” side-quests. Unlike Grand Theft Auto V’s bustling domain, these are but cruelly beautiful theatrical sets. It is like being trapped in an interplanetary Truman Show.That’s all fine, really it is, but it’s not new. The Last of Us shifted narrative shooters to a new level; the role-playing shooter Borderlands mixed blast-’em-up idiocy with character progression in a more daring and anarchic way. Ubisoft’s forthcoming collaborative strategy blaster Tom Clancy’s The Division is also promising to innovate on co-op play. Destiny is bigger than all of them, but somehow, the sum breaks down in the act of playing.Make no mistake, Destiny is fun. It is stylish and technically amazing – it will provide weeks of enjoyment if you are committed to its vision. Gathering with friends to take on missions is a treat, and being joined by strangers for impromptu skirmishes leads to some lovely moments of shared drama. The Halo-esque competitive multiplayer modes are fast and exciting if not extraordinarily tactical or inventive – you can use the weapons you’ve earned in single-player but character stats are evened out so right now, it doesn’t feel unbalanced.The progression system is nicely tuned too, so that armour, weapons and skills all interconnect allowing a true, and very holistic sense of personalisation. Certain armour items boost ammo capacity, certain skill unlocks favour strength over reflexes, so as you unlock new stuff, keeping some weapons, discarding others, you’re writing a story of your life in this universe. It’s a better story than the one you’re given.Later, new content will be added and eventually, more players will get to experience the “end game” content with the array of complex Raid missions, familiar to veterans of massively multiplayer games.But again we’re back to well established conventions, traditions and assurances. People say World of Warcraft only gets good after 50 hours, but this isn’t World of Warcraft, this is supposed to be the future – and many gamers won’t make it that far through this dryly earnest narrative universe; a universe that amazes us at times, but regards us with clinical abstraction.Destiny, isn’t just set in space, it is an allegory of space. It is beautiful and fascinating, but oh so cold and immense, and the past engulfs everything.
Apple’s unveiling of itsApple Watch smartwatch on Tuesdayhas thrown wearable technology under the spotlight - but Apple has joined a very busy market of useful, internet-connected watches. Here’s everything you need to know about smartwatches, and nine of the best.Apple WatchThe long-anticipated Apple Watch is an extension of the iPhone on the wrist. It has a touchscreen display, but also what Apple is calling a “digital crown” on the side, which is a jog dial that allows users to turn it to adjust features and settings, including zooming in and out of a map, or setting the time.Apple’s main focus is on apps, health and communications, with third-party apps from Twitter and Facebook shown off. A heart rate sensor on the back combines with movement tracking for fitness monitoring.The Apple Watch won’t be available until Spring 2015, which means the rest of the pack has quite a head start on Apple.Expert view:We don’t know until we get our hands on one next year.Cost:$350 (£215) in spring 2014•The Apple Watch: light, clever, but how long does the battery last?•Apple Watch has designs on health industry – but is it good for doctors?•Apple Watch first reactions: a great bit of kit, or just plain ugly?Motorola Moto 360The Moto 360, one of the rare round Android smartwatches.Photograph: Jeff Chiu/APMotorola’s second smartwatch and its first using Google’s Android Wear software, the Moto 360 is the first Android smartwatch to be released with a round 1.5in screen.It runs Google’s latest smartwatch software and connects to Android smartphones and tablets via Bluetooth, allowing notifications from apps, calls, texts and emails to pop up on the screen as small cards.The 360 has a heart rate sensor on the back, while steps and activity are counted by an accelerometer for fitness tracking.The interface is simple, the display attractive and the choice of watchfaces plentiful. Users can speak into their watch to search with Google or dictate messages, while Google Now presents information including aeroplane boarding cards or bus stop timetables when needed.Users can also control their music and get turn-by-turn directions delivered to their wrist from Google Maps.Expert view:The best looking, most comfortable smartwatch, but let down by poor battery life of less than a day.Cost:£200 from the end of September•Motorola Moto 360 a smartwatch masquerading as a classic time pieceLG G WatchMusicPhotograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianLG’s G Watch was one of the first Android Wear watches released, and like the Moto 360 connects to an Android smartphone via Bluetooth to display notifications and other information. It has a square screen, lasts about two days on a single charge and is waterproof.The G Watch lacks a heart rate monitor, but tracks steps and calories burnt, and allows users to control music, get directions and everything else Android Wear provides.Expert view:A good balance of battery life and notification features but the design might put people off.Cost:£160 available now•LG G Watch reviewSamsung Gear LiveSamsung Gear Live Android Wear smartwatchPhotograph: Maurizio Pesce/flickrThe Gear Live is Samsung’s Android Wear smartwatch, which was launched at the same time as the LG G Watch. It too has a square screen, connects to an Android smartphone via Bluetooth and displays information, notifications, direction and music track changes.The Gear Live also has a heart rate sensor built into the back for fitness tracking and is waterproof.Expert view:The heart rate sensor doesn’t add much, but the bright screen and comfortable fit make it a solid Android Wear watch.Cost:£170 available now•Samsung Gear Live reviewLG G Watch RThe LG G Watch R.Photograph: LG ELECTRONICS/AFP/Getty ImagesThe second round Android smartwatch, the LG G Watch R is essentially the square LG G Watch above squeezed into a circular frame. It looks more like a traditional watch with a completely round 1.3in screen and has a heart rate sensor on the back, unlike its square brother.Expert view:Similar to the LG G watch but a more attractive round design and a heart rate monitor.Cost:around £170 expected to be released in October•LG G Watch R: the smartwatch that looks like a watchAsus ZenWatchThe Asus ZenWatch.Photograph: ASUSAsus’s ZenWatch is the company’s first attempt at a wearable and, like the others above, runs Google’s Android Wear. It connects to Android smartphones via Bluetooth, displays notifications and other information from the phone and tracks activity with an acelerometer.It doesn’t have a heart rate monitor, but has a slightly curved screen and polished bezel.Expert view:It has the same features as most other smartwatches, so only one for you if you like the big and perhaps a little over-designed look.Cost:under £199 from in October•Asus ZenWatch will retail for ‘under £199’Sony Smartwatch 3The Sony SmartWatch 3 was one of the many smartwatches unveiled at the 2014 IFA trade fair in Berlin.Photograph: Sean Gallup/Getty ImagesThe Sony Smartwatch 3 is the only Android Wear smartwatch to date that has a GPS built in meaning it can track its position for running and other fitness and navigation activities without being connected to an Android smartphone.It will also be able to play music stored on the watch via Bluetooth headphones without a smartphone.The Smartwatch 3 is waterproof, like the rest, with a square screen and is Sony’s fourth generation Android smartwatch.Expert view:Promises a two-day battery life and more Android Wear features - including built-in GPS, which makes it great for fitness apps - than any other smartwatch.Cost:€229 (£182) in October•Sony joins Google’s Android Wear initiative with the GPS-equipped Smartwatch 3Samsung Gear SThe Samsung Gear S smartwatch being showcased at the IFA consumer technology fair in Berlin.Photograph: FABRIZIO BENSCH/REUTERSSamsung’s latest smartwatch is the company’s sixth smartwatch in under a year, but is the only one so far that can be used completely independently of a smartphone.The Gear S has Bluetooth to connect to and sync with a Samsung Android smartphone, but is also a complete mobile phone in its own right capable of making calls, sending messages and connecting to the internet over Wi-Fi or 3G connection, complete with separate mobile phone contract.It runs Samsung’s Tizen software, which means Android apps are not compatible and has a 2in curved screen with a heart rate sensor on the back. Users can place calls by directly speaking into the watch, just like Dick Tracy.Expert view:The only option for those who want the entire 3G-enabled connectivity of a mobile phone, on their wrist.Cost:Not yet announced•Samsung’s new Gear S smartwatch: just don’t mention Dick TracyPebblePebble smartwatches.Photograph: HandoutThe Pebble was one of the first smartwatches to work with both the iPhone and Android. It was successfully crowd-funded with $10.3 million through Kickstarter in April 2012, before being released in 2013.It has a low power e-ink screen that stays on all the time but gives the Pebble a battery life of seven days. It is waterproof, supports third party apps, and is available in a range of colours. An updated version with a stainless steel case was released this year.The Pebble displays alerts from the connected smartphone, but has no touchscreen with tradition buttons allowing users to switch between notifications and the time.Expert view:Pebble gets the basics right, lasts longer than any smartphone on a single charge, but is limited in functionality without a touchscreenCost:from $150The othersThere are many, many more smartwatches from various different companies offering similar functionality like notifications on the wrist including the SamsungGear Fit and Gear 2theWithings Activité, which is an alternative vision of a smartwatch and packs a fitness tracker directly into a traditional analogue watch.How the Apple Watch will stack up against the competition is unknown. Most of the current crop of smartwatches do not work with Apple’s iPhone, giving the company a captive market within iPhone buyers.Given smartwatches havestruggled to reachbeyond the geek elite, Apple and others might struggle to convince the general consumer that they actually need a smartwatch.•Two months with Android Wear: the best smartwatches yet•Android Wear: the nine best free apps for Google’s smartwatch•Wearables: one-third of consumers abandoning devices
Microsoft is developing a technology that will stream Xbox games to PC browsers, the tech blogNeowin has claimed.According to the report Xbox 360 and Xbox One titles will be playable using the service, which seeks to eliminate the lag usually associated with playing interactive games over the internet.Last month, Microsoft Researchpublished a reporton a project named Outatime, which seeks to allow seamless gameplay over the company’s vast Azure cloud computing network. The service was tested with two games, the role-playing adventure Fable 3 and the fast-paced shooter, Doom 3. Researchers claim that testers using the low-latency tech to play games via browsers were impressed with the responsiveness of the experience.Microsoft has not commented on the veracity of the Neowin report, which claims that Xbox games have already been successfully tested with the system:“The Xbox 360 games offer up the full experience, including the dashboard running in the browser too. So don’t think this is some hacked together project, this is the real deal. The product, as it stands right now, has Xbox branding and works outside the walls of Microsoft.”Playing console-quality games that are streamed to home computers or mobile devices via remote servers, is not a new idea. The OnLive cloud gaming platform launched in 2010, offering an array of familiar titles such as Assassin’s Creed and Batman Arkham Asylum. However, it remains a niche service, with many users of early versions experiencinglatencyand degraded picture quality. Last year,upgrades improved the performance, but support from game publishers remains inconsistent.Sony, too, would like to extend its PlayStation brand beyond specialist console hardware. Launching in the US this winter, PlayStation Now is a games-streaming service providing access to classic PlayStation 1, 2 and 3 titles. It will be available to PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita owners but will also be accessible directly from the latest Sony Bravia smart TVs.At the same time, Sony and Microsoft have made aspects of their online services available on smartphones. Xbox Live runs on Windows Phones, while Sony’s Xperia handsets run a range of back catalogue PlayStation games.However, a difference between the reported Microsoft plans and Sony’s PlayStation Now concept, is that NeoWin claims Outatime can stream the latest Xbox One titles, even at 60 frames-per-second. It does this by predicting inputs from the player and rendering multiple possible frames. The question is whether Microsoft would want to jeopardise sales of its Xbox One console by effectively making its feature set available to all PC owners with a web connection.No release date has been mentioned for the technology. Microsoft UK has been contacted for comment.•PlayStation 4 hits one million sales in the UK
Amazon is quitting its UK base of 16 years in Slough and moving to a 15-storey corporate office on the outskirts of the City of London.The 600,000 sq ft building, known as Principal Place, will be just north of Liverpool Street station. It will have a new public piazza and the plans show space for a swimming pool, tennis court and basketball court on the roof terrace.Amazon's UK operations started in Slough in 1998 but they have expanded rapidly since. Beyond its network of British warehouses, the UK business employs 1,700 people in corporate functions, mostly spread between Slough and a 12-storey office building in Farringdon, central London that opened last year. The group has not yet decided whether Shoreditch or Farringdon will be its new UK HQ.All staff will switch to central London next year and by 2017 many will be transferring to Shoreditch. Amazon said the new building will provide it with "total capacity" for more than 5,000 London employees.The moves will not affect arrangements through which Amazon is allowed to designate $7bn (£4.3bn) in UK sales as made by a company in Luxembourg.A CGI image of Principal Place, which Amazon says will provide the retailer with 'total capacity' for more than 5,000 London employees.By contrast, Amazon'sUK business reported sales of just £449m last year, paying £4.2m in tax on pretax profits of £17m..In May, Margaret Hodge, the chair of the public accounts committee,said she thought the arrangements meant Amazon was not paying its fair share of tax. "They are making money out of not paying taxes. I no longer use Amazon. We should shop elsewhere," the Labour MP said.Google, which books its UK sales in an Irish subsidiary, is also planning a large new office in London, near King's Cross station.The mayor of London, Boris Johnson, said: "Our city is the perfect home for top tech talent and I am very pleased that Amazon have confirmed their intention to create thousands of jobs at a major new base in east London. "Christopher North, managing director of Amazon's head of UK operations, said: "We have already invested well over £1bn and created more than 7,000 permanent jobs across the UK.Christopher North, UK boss of Amazon. Photograph: Linda Nylind for the Guardian"To support our continued growth in the UK, we have secured this exceptional building giving us the capacity to hire thousands of new employees in London in the coming years, in addition to the thousands of permanent roles we will create across our UK fulfilment and customer service centres."Construction will start later this month and Amazon will take the keys for 431,000 sq ft of office space in 2017.Confusingly, Amazon's UK business is called Amazon.co.uk Limited even though it does not own or operate the website of the same name. Instead the UK business operates Amazon's British warehouses, buying teams and other functions. It sells these services to sister Amazon companies overseas, mainly Amazon EU Sarl, the  European headquarters company.UK boss Christopher North has claimed that the corporate structure of Amazon is not tax-driven andinsisted the European business could not functionwere it required to be split up country-by-country.
Samsung’s new Galaxy Alpha Android smartphone finally demonstrates that the South Korean company can do high-quality design and fantastic quality, posing the question: why wait till now to do it?The 4.7in Galaxy Alpha is the smallest flagship smartphone in Samsung’s large range of devices. It sits under the 5.1in Galaxy S5 as the “design” smartphone, for people who want a smaller, better designed smartphone that does not have to have all the latest technology packed in. Or at least that’s how Samsung puts it.In reality it is the first of a range of Samsung smartphones with metal bodies created in response to criticism over its plastic construction. The second metal smartphone will be the 5.7in Galaxy Note 4, due for release at the end of September or early October.The premium metal construction is a big step forward for Samsung’s design.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPremium design, build and feelThe Galaxy Alpha is the most attractive smartphone Samsung has made and the best built. The metal sides withchamferededges feel great in the hand and the plastic back has a soft-touch quality to it feeling a bit like a cat’s ear in texture.It is also very light at 114g – that’s 2g heavier than the 112g iPhone 5S, 15g lighter than the iPhone 6 and 31g lighter than the 145g Galaxy S5. It is solidly built with no give or twist in the body at all.The smaller size of the phone compared to most 5in Android and Windows Phone smartphones makes it easier to hold and use in one hand.The 4.7in screen is colour rich and vibrant with good contrast and wide viewing angles. It has a 720p resolution resulting in a pixel density of 312 pixels per inch (ppi). While it is certainly sharp for reading text and viewing photos, it is noticeably less crisp than the Galaxy S5’s 5.1in 1080p screen with 432 ppi. For comparison the iPhone 5S has a 4in 326ppi screen and the incoming iPhone 6 a 4.7in 326ppi screen.The metal band around the outside is reminiscent of the iPhone 4, but has chamfered metal edges and a quality feel.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSpecificationsScreen:4.7in 720p Super AMOLEDProcessor:Samsung Exynos 5 octa-core processorRAM:2GB of RAMStorage:32GBOperating system:Android 4.4.4 “Kitkat”Camera:12MP rear camera, 2.1MP front-facing cameraConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi, NFC, Bluetooth 4.0 with BLE, USB 2.0 and GPSDimensions:132.4 x 65.5 x 6.7mmWeight:114gEight cores of powerThe Alpha uses Samsung’s Exynos 5 octa-core processor, which has four low-power cores combined with four more powerful cores. Only four cores are used at any one time, with the lower power cores used until something demanding like playing a game or producing video is required to save battery.The phone feels snappy, apps load instantly with no hint of lag and it handled blasting through graphically intensive games like Asphalt 8 without issue.The Alpha has a smaller 1,860 milliampere-hour (mAh) battery than Samsung’s other flagship phones with batteries larger than 2,800mAh. The battery lasts about one day of solid use, with constant push email, three hours of listening to music over Bluetooth, two hours of browsing and 30 minutes of playing games. It will have to be charged every night, however. TheGalaxy S5with the 2,800mAh battery can last a day and half without a charge under similar usage.Samsung’s Ultra Power Saving mode, whichwas praised in the Galaxy S5, works well, shutting down features, turning the screen black and white and limiting the number of apps available to a small handful, dramatically extending the battery life by days, with 10% battery listing around 24 hours of standby.Unlike most other Samsung phones the Alpha has 32GB of built-in storage for apps, games, music, photos and movies, but no microSD card slot for further expansion.Android customisations that you’ll have to live withSamsung’s TouchWiz is the same on the Alpha as the Galaxy S5 and splits opinion.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Alpha uses the same version of customised Android asthe Galaxy S5, and I have the same complaints. Known as TouchWiz, the customisations add clutter to the already good standard Android experience, duplicate experiences like Samsung’s S-Voice which performs most of the same jobs as Google’s built-in voice search, and has a less than premium look.Samsung’s My Magazine social news app, which sits on the home screen furthest left and is powered by the Flipboard app, is slow and a turn-off for most. Users can remove it from their home screens.Some Samsung fans will love TouchWiz and anyone who has used an Android phone before will know how to use it. There are a few good additions like the aforementioned Ultra Power Saving mode.Fingerprint scannerThe fingerprint scanner unlocks the phone with a swipe of a finger.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Galaxy Alpha has the same swipe-over fingerprint scanner under the home button as the Galaxy S5 and Note 4. Samsung has spent a lot of time improving it and the difference is noticeable. You can register three separate fingers, but with each finger you can also record an associated thumb, which is the digit most people will use to unlock the phone.The fingerprint scanner has a success rate of more than 95% for me, making it a useful and convenient way to unlock the phone or authenticate a purchase through PayPal and others. The improvements were recently pushed to the Galaxy S5 via a software update boosting my finger swipe success rate from 75% to above 95%.Heart rate sensorThere is an optical heart rate sensor beside the camera on the back. It works fine, feeding data into Samsung’s S Health app, but I’m unconvinced about whether it would be useful for most people.CameraThe heart rate sensor sits to the left of the camera with the flash.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe 12-megapixel camera is a step down from the 16-megapixel camera in the Galaxy S5, but it is still a solid camera with good colour saturation, crisp details and fast auto-focus. Photos in good lighting conditions look great, those snapped in lower light levels can look a bit grainy when enlarged beyond the size of the screen.PriceThe Galaxy Alpha will be similarly priced to the Galaxy S5, available for around £500 without a mobile phone contract from 12 September.VerdictThin, light and metal edges.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe screen is noticeably less sharp compared to phones with 1080p screens while the lack of microSD card slot hampers how much music, movies and photos users can store, despite having 32GB of built-in storage.The Alpha is the best smaller smartphone Samsung has ever made and a solid competitor to the upcoming iPhone 6, which has the same size screen, similar weight and thickness.Pros:Metal frame, solid build, super thin, decent camera, snappy performance, all-day battery life, easy one-hand useCons:Screen less sharp than the competition, low-light camera performance could be better, no microSD card slotOther reviews•HTC One M8 review: a lightning-quick, five-star phone•Samsung Galaxy S5 review: bigger, faster – but still plastic•Sony Xperia Z2 review: powerful, waterproof but just a tad too big•Google Nexus 5 review: a flagship smartphone that costs the same as a mid-range device•iPhone 5S review: Apple’s best is all about fingerprints and software•Nokia Lumia 930 review: the best Windows Phone yetNokia Lumia 930 review: the best Windows Phone yetNokia Lumia 930 review: the best Windows Phone yet
Last month,Britney Spearsannounced onTwitterthat she had split from her long-term boyfriend David Lucado – and now it seems she’ll be taking to social media to replace him.Ahhhh the single life!&mdash; Britney Spears (@britneyspears)August 28, 2014Appearing on theTonight Show With Jimmy Fallon, theWork Bitchsinger was shown a Tinder profile Fallon had created for her. Spears joked that she was “thrilled” at being added to the dating app. “Swipe right, that means good”, explained Fallon.Spears is not the first celebrity connected to Tinder.Ed Sheeranwas even approached by the site to become a “verified” user. The singertold Total Accessthat he rejected the invitation.“It just sounds quite creepy doing that,” he said. You’re just using your celebrity status to hook up with chicks.”Other stars have admitted to setting up incognito Tinder profiles, including:Lily Allen,Katy PerryandLindsay Lohan– who awkwardly got matched withher own brother.Just discovered tinder. *Waves goodbye to life*&mdash; lily (@lilyallen)March 13, 2014Lindsay Lohan posts on Instagram that she found her brother on Tinder.•Dating app Tinder facing sexual harassment lawsuit from co-founder
For once Paul McGinley’s all-weather smile, as much a part of the genial Irishman as a sharp two-piece suit is to a city lawyer, was absent. Instead there were fidgety taps of his fingers and a twitchy pawing at his nose - classic indicators of stress. And all because Europe’s Ryder Cup captain was announcing his three wildcard picks in his team to face the United States: Ian Poulter, Stephen Gallacher and Lee Westwood.Unsurprisingly, McGinley admitted it had been a “very, very, very difficult” decision to leave out near-misses such as Luke Donald and Francesco Molinari – and said he had trusted his “captain’s instinct”.Meanwhile Tom Watson, the captain of the US team, also spoke in vaguely mystical tones after choosing Keegan Bradley, Hunter Mahan and Webb Simpson as his wildcards. “It came to me this morning . . . I kind of had a revelation,” he said about picking Simpson. “I took a look the last time the Ryder Cup was played and I just realised Webb was the guy.”Instinct. Revelation. These are not words that golfing analysts - who make a living from tracking and analysing every crumb of data about each player and course - entertain when assessing the likelihood of someone doing well in a tournament. Then again, the Ryder Cup is different: physically, structurally, even spiritually.We all know why. It is matchplay not strokeplay. Four of the five rounds – played over three slog-long days - are in pairs. One horrible shot in a 72-hole tournament can irreparably wreck your chances of success; in the Ryder Cup it costs just the hole. And the players are not representing themselves and their sponsors but a country or continent. It makes some puff their chests - and others to shrivel in stature. No wonder the usual rules of analysing who is likely to do well don’t always apply.As Sky Bet golf manager John Rhodes puts it: “Normally current form is the most important thing when analysing someone’s chances at a tournament. In my database I particularly focus on how everyone has played in the last 12-13 weeks. You soon spot patterns. You also look at anything else that might change the prices – especially course form and which country or region a player is from. For instance on the west coast the greens are very different to say Florida, so certain players who do well on the east coast are not always so good out west.”Of McGinley’s three wildcard picks, only Gallacher ticks the typical boxes of a likely tournament winner. He is in form, having finished in the top 20 in five of his last seven tournaments before being picked, and only missed out on automatic Ryder Cup selection by one shot after finishing third in the Italian Open. He also has an impressive record at Gleneagles: his last five strokeplay results are second (2013), sixth (2012), sixth (2011), 14th (2010) and 10th (2008).Compare and contrast with Poulter, whose last six tournament results before his Ryder Cup squad was announced were: missed cut – missed cut – tied-52 - tied 58 – missed cut – tied 23rd,and has only two top-10 finishes all year. Meanwhile Westwood missed four straight cuts during the summer – including at the US Open and Open Championship – although he did finish tied 15thin the USPGA after a last round 63.Yet hardly anyone quibbled with the selection of Poulter, simply because everyone knows the Ryder Cup morphs him into a different beast. He has an astonishing 12-3 win/loss record, an 80% success rate – more than double that of Tiger Woods, whose record of 13 wins, three ties and 17 defeats is wretched.Poulter’s performances also match favourably to most of the great Europeans in recent Ryder Cup history: only Jose Maria Olazabal, whose record is 18 wins, eight ties and three defeats, Sergio Garcia (16-8-4) and Seve Ballesteros (20-12-5) come close.You suspect it wouldn’t matter if he was topping balls like a once-a-year Sunday hacker in the months before the Ryder Cup: the sight of the European flag works better than any swing doctor in reviving his game.The most contentious of McGinley’s three picks was Westwood, whose overall Ryder Cup record of 18 wins, six ties and 13 defeats, is not as good as Donald (10 wins, one tie, four defeats). Donald also has the better short game and putting, and his partnership with Sergio Garcia in the foursomes and fourballs has been remarkably successful – five wins and just one defeat.Yet these are wafer-thin decisions: Donald has not had a top-30 finish since April, and doesn’t seem the player he was since remodelling his swing at the end of last year. There is no guarantee his form would return at Gleneagles – although, then again, you could argue the same about Poulter.And what of the American wildcards? Again there has been the odd quibble with Watson’s selections but there is a teak-solid case for all of them. Mahan won the world matchplay in 2012 and was a runner-up in 2013, and showed strong recent form in winning The Barclays in New Jersey in August. Bradley is a little wild, but he does make plenty of birdies as he showed in winning three of his four matches in Medinah in 2012, and appears a natural fit with Phil Mickelson.And while some disagreed with Watson picking Simpson over recent US Tour winner Chris Kirk – you can see why: Simpson is a major champion with previous Ryder Cup experience and had nine top-10 finishes in 2014 before his selection. He should also pair up well again with Bubba Watson, who he won two from two with in Medinah in 2012. Kirk, for all his talent, would have also been the fourth rookie on the US team.As Bet 365 gold trader Phil Quayle explains: “Bradley is a very gung-ho player who seems to ruin rounds with one or two really bad holes a day but the Ryder Cup is a good format for hiding that trait. Mahan won recently and his all-round stats have been very good. The last pick of Simpson was probably the closest call on both teams. He is similar to Molinari in that his all-round game is very good. He just doesn’t putt too well, but that’s not as important in match play when you are just trying to win a hole and not put up 16 under par for four rounds.”Of course the selection of wildcards is not a precise science. Captains are not just frisking recent results and other data but also trying to assess the vast array of elements that will help them create that just-right blend of experience, harmony, desire, steadiness and streakiness and overwhelming will to win in their 12-man teams.Is it any wonder, then, that McGinley decided to partially trust his instincts – and Watson fell back on the power of revelation?TheDriving innovation hubis funded by HP. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled advertisement feature. Find out morehere.
