Hello, want to buy some Hot Sex? Yes, it's thatspamagain.
"It just feels so wonderful to walk into any Internet cafe in the world andsee where your cat is,'' says the creator of a high-tech cat flap featured in theSan Jose Mercury.
Dr Damnis one of the people "cleaning up" peer-to-peer file-sharing programs by removing the advertising and "spyware" elements. KaZaA users can tryKazaaLite.
More Infineonwearable chips.
Goodbye"King Jerry"Sanders, the man who was AMD. The chip industry is losing one of its biggest characters.
It's useful to provide links to Web resources, especially for educational purposes.Unfortunatelylink rotmeans they don't last as long as the courses.
Why not?
If you fancy reading a book about the history of personal computing, and particularly, Microsoft's place in it, there is a free one available. It is very informative though not exactly independent: it was, in fact,submitted in evidence by Bill Gatesin the anti-trust retrial that is being held at the moment, mainly for the purpose of providing a lot of lawyers with new Porsches. If you want to experience the mind-numbing incompetence of this whole ludicrous legal extravaganza, skip the New York Times'sbrief reportand read the transcripts of the casehere. Ideal for insomniacs.
Belatedly....Wylie Gustafsonof Wylie &amp; the Wild West country band is suing Yahoo for $5 million. Wylie put the yahoo in Yahoo!
According to UK-based Canalys, sales of all types of Windows CE handheld (mainly PocketPCs) have the same market share as Palm in EMEA (Europe, the Middle East and Africa*), with 34% each, though of course Palm OS is still ahead thanks to sales of Sony and Handspring models. The figures show that sales of Symbian-based systems plunged by 26%, but its market share stayed at 13% because the whole market was down. The numbers arehere. * Africa, not Asia, as suggested inthisreport.
In yesterday'sWebwatchThe free issue of Science Week is linked incorrectly from the Guardian site: gohere
Palm is busy rewriting the current single-tasking 16-bit Pam OS which runs on antique but cheap Motorola processors to make it into a 32-bit multi-tasking OS that runs on ARM chips like the PocketPC's Windows CE. At long last, Palm users will also be able to have decent screens.CNet has a comparison of Palm OS 4 and what is expected for OS 5.Presumably the development team will be smart enough to keep the excellent user interface and ease of use....
Sign of things to come: you turn on your PC, and one of your programs starts deleting another, because it doesn't like it. Well, it is self defence, isn't it? According to aNewsbytesreport from Germany, RadLight v3.03, a DivX player, deletes Lavasoft's Ad-Aware, which many people use to delete the advertising "spyware" bundled with many free programs. Ad-Aware is useful because it deletes all sorts of junk including Alexa, Aureate, Comet Cursor, Cydoor, Gator, OnFlow and TimeSink. The only pity is that it doesn't remove Real Networks code, unwanted instant messaging programs and the other rubbish many users get lumbered with.
Vibrating rubber cellphonescould be the next big thing, according to New Scientist, because vibrations could be used to enhance communications. Oh yes, and whatever happened toteledildonics?
The Blair government is on target to meet its promise of putting all public services online within three years - but an update by the National Audit Office of its survey of official webdom says the public itself will need a lot more encouragement to use them.The office of the e-envoy will need to undertake a substantial offline marketing effort to improve takeup, according to the team of academics commissioned by the NAO to update its 1999 review of official websites and e-administration.Professor Pat Dunleavy of the London School of Economics, who led the team, said he was not sure the government's availability target had much significance if takeup rates remained as low as they currently seem to be. She emphasised "seemed" and criticised the quality of the data the e-envoy uses, adding that the government had yet to   demonstrate that its push for putting more public business online was going to be cost effective. The Treasury, its own track record in e-government far from glorious, should be making a better assessment of costs and benefits.In Government on the Web II, it is estimated that 40-50% of central government's dealings with the public could now take place online; the target is 100% by 2005. The proportion of government bodies allowing the public to fill in and submit forms online is now about one in four compared with one in seven at the time of the last NAO report.While the big Whitehall departments have sophisticated and information-rich websites, government agencies are variable. At the time the NAO study ended earlier this year, there were still 66 out of 376 units within central government without a website of their own, though many of these do not have significant dealings with the public.Among the busiest Whitehall websites have been the department for environment, food and rural affairs and the department for education and skills - its hits far exceed those of the department of health. The ministry of defence, cabinet office and lord chancellor's department are among the least visited, electronically speaking.As for councils, while most now present basic facts and figures, few allow the internet to be used to access municipal services, for example to report crime or   apply for housing. Too few council websites provide links to the police, health service or provide such information as local bus timetables. Only half provided regular reports of local road repairs.The NAO census of council sites dated last autumn found that only 11% of English local authority websites offer materials in a language other than English. An indi cator of how far councils have to travel to meet the overall objective of getting all services online is shown by the fact that only 4% allow the form to register a birth to be downloaded and only 7% make application forms for adult education courses available online.The NAO wants the department for transport, local government and regions to devise more effective indicators of how well councils are performing. Like the office of the e-envoy, it needs better, more systematic information about the local e-world.For all the web's potential to promote freedom of information, it is still hard to find out such basic facts as who civil servants are and what they do, let alone how to get in touch with them. Only a fifth of Whitehall sites offer senior officials' phone numbers, while a third offer their biographical details and a quarter their email addresses.Prof Dunleavy said the &#163;50m a year office of the e-envoy has so far thought of itself as a campaigner. It needs to mature into an "implementing" role. The NAO study criticised the state's main portal, UK Online. Its "design has been problematic and usage lower than expected." Redesigned in January this year, its homepage is now more useful.
Onlineblog reader Matt makes a very fair point in the comments thread relating to thepostI made about Blogger now supporting Mozilla, which is worth repeating here for clarity and accuracy. Blogger has always worked on browsers other than Microsoft's Internet Explorer: you were only restricted to IE when you upgraded to Blogger Pro, which was launched earlier this year. Ev gave notice from day one of Blogger Pro that he wanted to fix this, and has now delivered through the recent changes to Blogger Pro. Lest anyone accuse him of being in a big pro-MS, anti-standards cabal, I should have made that clearer in my original post - sorry.
Shares in mobile operator mm02 have taken a battering today after bad news from rival Vodafone and a scathing research note from independent broker Collins Stewart (it used to be - ooh, all of two years ago - that research notes like this predicted certain telcos/high-tech companies were the next big thing, and sent their stock soaring). But some things don't change. Now, as then, it's still interesting to note how onereport on a reportcan be so different toanother report on a report, despite both covering much the same areas and even using the same quotes. One suggests the whole mobile sector is doomed. Another suggests mm02 has specific, unique problems.
Yahoo is moving rapidly from free to fee. Eric Hellwegwritesin Business 2.0 magazine: "There's a difference between accepting the fact that companies need to make money and suddenly being bombarded with charges. If I were an active gamer with a Yahoo e-mail account forwarded to my work address and my graphics files housed on Yahoo's Web storage center, I would suddenly be looking at almost $50 in charges."
We are sitting in a large, noisy cafe in Smithfield in London with background music playing over the loudspeaker. Chris Barton switches on a portable CD player with its own tiny speakers and a record starts playing in competition with the cafe's own music.I dial a number on an ordinary mobile phone. There is a pause of 10 to 15 seconds, then a voice on the phone tells me it is the Cranberries' Ode to My Family. A short while later, a text message arrives confirming it.I'm impressed but not convinced. I ask him to put on the Radiohead CD - and the phone correctly comes up with The Bends followed by   another text message. Later, I ask him to switch off his CD player and get the phone to identify the background music in the cafe. After a couple of failures (because the songs were not yet on his fast-growing database), it succeeds again (Finally by Kings of Tomorrow). By now I'm no longer impressed. I'm wishing I owned the company.Chris Barton, a 32-year-old American, is founder and chief executive of Shazam, a London-registered company that is launching its service in the summer at 50p a call.When he first thought of the idea of getting mobiles to recognise music - it happened three years ago as he was falling asleep one night in London while studying at the London Business School - everyone told him    it was impossible. But he persevered and eventually found the right person to do it: Avery Wang, who has four degrees from Stanford University and is his chief   scientist, is responsible for the key algorithm.After listening for 15 seconds through a mobile phone, his software can create a unique mathematical description of   the song that can be checked against Shazam's database. It will not only know that it is the Rolling Stones playing Satisfaction, but will know which version it was and which year it was recorded. It contains 300,000 songs - not yet enough to pick up some of the funkier songs in the cafe.But by August, Mr Barton hopes to have 1.6m songs and he will carry on building up the database. He is archiving the most popular ones first.His idea has come at the right moment, when mobile phone operators are turning their attention from selling phones to a saturated market to earning income from existing phones to pay for their &#163;22.5bn investment in 3G licences. Since they will probably get nearly 50% of every 50p call made for this service on their existing networks without having to do anything in return, they are naturally keen to promote it.Shazam is also working out deals with the record companies over royalties to artists so as to avoid the kind of confrontation that zapped   Napster, the service that enabled computer users around the world to share music files behind the backs of the record companies.It is a sign of backers' faith in the product that he managed to raise $7.5m in venture capital during the past couple of years while dotcom companies were collapsing around him. The main investors are IDG Ventures, Lynx New Media Ventures and FLV Fund. One of the first individual investors was Sir Colin Southgate, former executive chairman of EMI, who made a personal investment in Shazam after a 45-minute demo of an earlier version.It is the most impressive new application for a mobile phone I have come across. But dazzling technology doesn't guarantee success. The worry must be that customers will use it two or three times and then the novelty will wear off.Chris Barton believes there will be continuing demand. He believes he has found "the missing piece" - when people are influenced by a piece of music but can't do anything about it at the time. Now they can. He points to the increasing number of requests that DJs and radio stations get for details of music that have been heard in snatches.There are also lots of possible spin-offs for the technology - like performing rights organisations being able to tell exactly what records are being played on the radio or at concerts to check up on royalty payments. And that includes cafes in Smithfield.
The Electrical Retailing Show, held annually at Birmingham's NEC, may be small beer compared with CeBit and Comdex, but it still manages to throw up a few innovative gadgets.Toshiba's new digital camera, the PDR-T10 due on sale next month for &#163;250, is the first of its kind to feature    Nokia mobile-style interchangeable faceplates.  It is also the first camera to come with a stylus to operate its touch-screen menu system.The stylus is attached to the camera via a wrist strap. Image quality is a maximum of 2.1 megapixels, the camera has a 2x digital - but no optical - zoom. Shots are saved on to an 8MB Secure Digital (SD) card. Over at the Samsung stand, the Korean company paraded a host of Plasma and LCD screen sets including a 63in Plasma - the largest made. The models feature a TV tuner and a PC input. So thanks to a picture-in-picture facility, users can monitor Beckham's performance in    Japan while working on an Excel document.Four sizes are available - in 15, 17, 24 and 40inch models, ranging from &#163;1,300 to &#163;8,000. Rival Korean company LG is offering the &#163;700 LE-15A15, a 15in LCD monitor that has a TV tuner but no picture-in-picture. Samsung also confirmed    that its Nexio S150 smartphone will be launched in the summer. The Nexio's trump card is its 5in LCD screen, significantly larger than rival products.The unit uses Microsoft's Windows CE operating system, features 64MB of Ram and is compatible with a host of accessories and add-ons including a wireless Lan card, digital camera and a GPS system. Other products unveiled included, from LG, a pair of talking VCRs that uses a human voice to guide the user through set-up and operation, inflatable speakers from Ellula Sounds, and a joint hard disk/DVD-RAM video recorder from Toshiba.
Dungeon SiegePC 	&#163;34.99		 Microsoft 	****Dungeon Siege has come at a good time for Microsoft. Faced with slow European Xbox sales - witness the &#163;100 price cut - the company needs something positive to report. Luckily for them, Dungeon Siege is a cracker.Not that this is immediately apparent. A quick look at the box suggests a cliched fantasy role-playing game (RPG), stuffed full of the   usual orcs, goblins and broadswords. Initial playing confirms this, but by the time you've skewered your first Krug, the lack of originality becomes irrelevant.It's not what it does, but how it does it that makes DS so special. So progress is    made by slaughtering beasties, but rather than using unfriendly stats to determine your levels, a transparent system allows you to tailor your fighters depending on the skills they use. You can control a party of characters, but DS gives you greater scope for   tactics than in most RPGs. The impressive 3D visuals help, allowing you to zoom right into the action, or retain a lofty view from the clouds. This is exhilarating adventuring, although it can get repetitive.With a plot skinnier than an anorexic wafer, the incessant combat and treasure looting don't satisfy as much as if part of an epic storyline.Nevertheless, the beautiful environments create a desperate urge to see the next area, driving you on well into the early hours. If you find yourself finishing the game, then there are multiplayer and map editor modes included to elongate thee xperience. Dungeon Siege is a much-needed triumph for Microsoft.  (GH)ShrekXbox 	&#163;44.99 Digital Illusions/ TDK Mediactive 	***Now that the Xbox costs the same as the PlayStation 2, Microsoft's console can be judged purely on the merit of its games. To persuade people to buy Xboxes, Microsoft simply needs to come up with a selection of exclusive killer games. Shrek, sadly, is not one of them but it should keep a young audience happy.Shrek has very little to do with the film in terms of storyline. You play the lovable, ugly, green ogre, and   your mission is to perform various good deeds to get to the hidden castle and defeat the evil wizard Merlin. For example, you must help Bo Peep pen her sheep despite the close attentions of a wolf, or rescue Mother Goose's eggs from the murderous intentions of Humpty Dumpty.Graphically, Shrek is very impressive (although the unrealistic-looking water lets the side down). But its gameplay is bitty. When performing good deeds, you either find that trying to perform the same task endlessly breeds frustration and boredom, or that your mission has been completed after just a couple of minutes' gameplay. Although you can choose which good deed to perform in any given location, Shrek lacks any sense of being a coherent game.Still, there is plenty of humour on offer - Shrek can immobilise enemies with his green farts and even set fire to them if he has found a chilli pepper to ingest - along with plenty of Super Mario 64-style surreality. Pre-teens who enjoyed the film won't feel short-changed, even though Shrek is not the greatest of games. (SB)Heroes of Might and Magic IVPC 	&#163;30		 New World/3DO 	*****The Might and Magic series used to be strictly defined and predictable: quality role-playing games (RPG) with the emphasis on role playing rather than epic battles. Recently, however, the series has split, with Heroes taking the classic path through character development and tactics, leaving the others to worry about combat and 3D graphics. It is a wise choice.Heroes IV is almost baffling in its attention to   detail, one of the few RPGs in which you will have to delve into the instruction book. On the surface, this seems unnecessarily complex, but patience is rewarded with a deep and well-structured game.Of course, it's still about traditionally "heroic" pursuits such as undertaking quests, building up your base, securing resources and recruiting troops - and the action is still turn-based. However, this is no bad thing: those with a few hours to kill will find six new campaigns, more than 400 structures, 100 spells and 60 creatures to command.This time around, you can enrol more than one hero, chosen from 11 initial classes before branching out into nearly 40 - all with strengths and weaknesses. Achieving the right balance is slightly less important than before, as   you recruit soldiers to do much of the grunt work, but there is still danger in every battle that your best recruits might be taken from you because of one mistake.However, combat remains disappointing, resolutely 2D and laughably crude compared to the genre's   benchmarks. Organising your troops is still imprecise and the animation appears almost a slapstick-pastiche of recent titles such as Etherlords.Despite this, Heroes IV is a worthy successor to a well-loved series, with hundreds of hours of gameplay on offer.  (MA)
I picked up the pen and started writing a short message on the tablecloth in the hotel where I was having breakfast. The tablecloth was unmarked, but the words were being picked up with remarkable accuracy by a nearby phone thanks to the new Bluetooth wireless technology built in to the pen.A couple more clicks with the pen - which doubles as a remotely controlled mouse - and the message was dispatched. My first text message using Bluetooth was a success. The technology behind the Vpe, is awesome. It uses a tracking engine developed by the Israeli company OTM, which uses lasers to measure motion in three dimensions (length, breadth and depth), unlike a computer mouse, which is limited to two dimensions. So, if you are writing the letter "X" it can tell when you lift the pen off the surface to do the second stroke. The phone that sends the message could be up to nine metres away, but what you write is recorded without any wires connecting the two devices.OTM only makes the tracking engine - which is also being adapted to be a three dimensional navi-roller on a mobile phone and a mouse for a PC. OTM is leaving manufacturers to develop applications. Thanks to Bluetooth, it will soon be possible to strap the GSM part of your phone, which carries most of the weight including the battery, on your belt, have the screen on your wrist watch, leaving the Vpen to be the writing    device and handset as well. The prototype Vpen I used was light. It was larger than an ordinary pen but can be made lighter and smaller without losing functionality. Vpen is hoping that because it makes text messaging easier, the operators will incorporate it to boost their revenue streams.That may be easier said than done, since texters have got used to the present system. But I don't doubt that this technology will be a success somewhere.  Technological advances are breathing new life into products that did not quite make it first time round. When I tested, more than 18 months ago, a pen scanner to read lines of text, it was a seductive but unreliable product. It took longer to do the corrections than input it.  Which is why I was impressed with how efficient the C-Pen 10 is. After inserting the software (on CD-Rom) and opening a new Word document, I scanned in a poem with virtually no mistakes other than my own. It works through a two-dimensional scanner using a tiny digital video camera connected to a PC or Mac through a USB (universal serial bus) port.This model has to be connected to a computer or laptop and therefore does not have a built-in screen.  It can also be used as a mouse (with a specially made active mouse pad). It costs &#163;64.99 (incl VAT) and can scan 22 languages at more than 1,000 words a minute. It is sold in the UK by DataMind.
FraudwatchThe US government's Internet Fraud Complaint Center has published statistics for last year, and you can now download its report as a PDF file. Last year almost 50,000 complaints were made via the site, and 43% concerned online auctions. Almost a sixth were about the so-called Nigerian letter fraud. If you want a full account of that very successful scam, head for the 419 Coalition site. The Nigerian High Commission in the UK also runs an excellent anti-fraud site with contact details for Nigerian officials. It is not worth reporting the spam, but if you have lost money, get in touch with the West African Organised Crime Section at the National Criminal Intelligence Service (NCIS): 419@spring39.demon.co.ukBudgetIn the unlikely event that you have not read or heard more than enough about the Budget, you can always visit the Treasury's award-winning site. Keynote, which measures web performance, says although the site slowed on the day, "availability remained 100%".Keo, OK?Everybody on Earth has four pages of text they can send to the future, albeit by a roundabout route. The idea is to load the messages on to Keo, a winged satellite that "will return to earth, intact," in 50,000 years. But don't include Swiss bank account    numbers or divulge where you buried the bodies: the aim is to anonymise the messages and let everyone read them now.Google itGoogle is now available as a web service, which means that programmers can write applications to access its facilities directly without going via the web interface. Those who are interested can download a developers' kit, but most of us just want to see what other people are doing with it. The Soapware directory has links to some early examples. So far the most interesting one is Googlematic, which aims to allow searching from an instant messaging program. Blogging pioneer Dave Winer has also been thinking about the idea's future.Line timeSome people may be vaguely aware that Episode II, otherwise known as Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones, will hit American screens around the middle of next month. The real fans have been queuing outside Grauman's Chinese Theatre in Hollywood since April 4. At this stage, however, the queuing has become more important than the films, and may well involve raising money for charity.ArtlinesIf you have ever felt an urgent need to understand what installation art is all about, AccessArt has launched a 10-minute animated guide aimed at children aged 11-14 (key stage 3). You will be producing your own installations within minutes. The site also illustrates that few web effects are more tedious than slowly scrolling text. Adults may    prefer to take a look at Expo-Shop's online museum of works by Amadeo Modigliani, which has joined companion sites about Cezanne, Van Gogh, and other famous painters online - though, sadly, Magritte has closed down. Visitors can send e-cards and also buy things like Modigliani-patterned silk ties suitable for creating personal and mobile examples of installation art.ABMIf you want to find out more about the mathematician John Nash, America's PBS television network has produced a documentary and an accompanying website, A Brilliant Madness. It includes an interview with Nash, below, and background from the producer.    Nash was also, of course, the basis for the Academy award-winning movie, A Beautiful Mind. This has its own official site (Flash 5 required) and a DreamWorks Fansite.Pair offThere are more than enough twins in the world to support some interesting twin sites, but a dating service could be pushing it a bit. However, if you are one of a pair and fancy dating another pair, Exclusively Twins could be the place to go. But don't take the "exclusively" too literally. The site also says: "Higher order multiples welcome."
Frankly, I'm worried. A few weeks ago, I happened to catch the first instalment of a radio documentary on Pink Floyd and now I want to buy a copy of the band's 1971 opus, Meddle. Nothing wrong with that you might argue - classic-era Floyd - but this whole scenario is causing me concern.First up, the documentary was broadcast by Radio 2 on a Saturday night, and I listened to it against a backdrop of the girlfriend cheerfully making cynical jokes about cardigans and slippers. Second, back when I was a studiously bored teenager in the 1970s, the consensus was that punk would destroy Floyd and their progressive rock ilk, leaving music free to be dangerously young. In short, I'm fearful that my Floyd fixation, inspired by some rather fetching guitar lines from Dave Gilmour, is a sign of encroaching middle age.If so, I'm obviously not alone because the list of progressive rock sites at Google  is bewildering. The Gibraltar Encyclopedia of Progressive Rock, for instance, features a huge list of (mostly obscure) bands and artists; while the Progressive Rock    Radio Network, has copious links to web stations.The web is the place to turn if your life-partner and friends can't understand your obsession with long, boring guitar solos and songs about elves. In Floyd's case, a good place to begin is the massive list of links at the Pink Floyd Web Index.Here, you'll find a "Pink Floyd Yellow Pages to the WWW" with links helpfully listed under such categories as album title, band member and so on. Alternatively, you could start with, the official site for Echoes, the band's best compilation.Tastefully animated, this reassuringly reveals that Echoes is a "carbon neutral" product: "What that means is we've measured the amount of carbon dioxide emitted by the production of the CDs, and enough trees have been   planted to reabsorb the greenhouse gas." Well, it's better than rock stars spending their money on cocaine and guitar-shaped swimming pools.Completing the triumvirate of British prog rockers that conquered the world, Yes and Genesis have a strong web presence. The official home of Yes is particularly impressive, with its mix of news, streaming media and sites for individual band members. The online home of Genesis  is similarly shipshape.Trouble is, there's something too corporate about these destinations, as if confirming the oft-repeated observation that prog rock is music for Home Counties boys who grow up to become accountants. No, for real fun, you need to get out to some of the more obscure sites.It's out there that you'll find the website-cum-cottage industry that is Marillion. Without ever threatening to repeat their success of the 1980s (when Fish, was still the band's vocalist), the band seem to be making a living by directly communicating with fans. There's a lesson here and, paradoxically, it's the punk lesson about doing what you want and not giving two hoots about the mainstream.Elsewhere, Camel, Curved Air, Gentle Giant   and Gong are just   a few of the bands with their own pages.For all its ludicrous excess, prog rock also threw up some genuine heroes, such as King Crimson's Robert Fripp, who welded technology, technique and what he called Frippertronics to take the electric guitar into whole new areas (it's Fripp who provided the distinctive guitar melodies for David Bowie's Heroes).Go to fan site Elephant Talk, for a collection of self-deprecating postings from the man himself: "Think of me in the worst terms you may, knowing that the hardest judgement at which you might arrive falls far short of the actuality."Similarly, the fabulous space rock of Germany's Can emerged from prog, while polemical and political Robert Wyatt), got his start with Soft Machine. As for Van der Graaf Generator), there's an argument for them being the most underrated band in rock history.But maybe the best investigation into the weirder end of prog rock is to hunt through the enthusiastic LP reviews of obscure lost classics contributed by fans to Julian Cope's Head Heritage site. And if, after all that, you still think prog's dead, have you listened to Radiohead recently? I mean, really listened?
How has the role of the ISP changed since your Demon days?The role of the ISP back then was pioneering - now it's a telecom job. A competent ISP nowadays should have an almost 100% service and I find it incredible that several of the ISPs I use are not able to provide as good a service as BT does on phone calls.Broadband Britain?It'll happen - despite BT. What happened is a socialist government lost its power - BT effectively now runs Oftel. Strong government with a strong regulator and "broadband Britain" will happen quickly.You sit on the advisory council for the Foundation for Information Policy Research. What are its objectives?The job of the FIPR  is to persuade government to listen to reason. Governments don't make bad decisions lightly; they spend months studying things, then make bad decisions. A recent example was the discussion around the publication of private keys for encryption. We have a lot of the top people from hi-tech industries, people who would never work for government but who are happy to work for FIPR, telling people why the law they're about to make won't work.Is there a demand for 3G in the UK?As such no. As part of something else, absolutely. Bluetooth is wonderful as part of another product but Bluetooth for the sake of Bluetooth, no. When I plug my laptop into the Lan I get 100Mb. When I plug my wireless network card in I get 11Mb, which is more than enough. Why should I have to dial up at 56k? Why is nobody doing an omnipresent wireless network as the technology's there to do it?Has the mobile reached a hiatus?I had a car phone in 1987 and a mobile since the day the first one came out here. The pricing is still ludicrous, although Orange   has done most to correct their pricing. BT should really be turning all their copper lines into ADSL and giving you a phone as a by-product. My mobile data-card, or my mobile used on infrared or Bluetooth, should work at 64k at least. Broadband over a mobile network is perfectly possible.How did we live without data-transfer?In 1985 we were running a software house and one of our clients required a whole new program update. We had a 1200 half-duplex modem so we sent it via that and sent a floppy in a taxi as back up. The transmission didn't break but the taxi still got there first. From London to Southend.Favourite gadgets?I'm building a house in Spain and Mark Boyce, who works for me here, suggested we build in X10, which is signalling over the power supply of the house. I'll now have a home with no light switches attached to the lights. I can turn any light or appliance on or off via the web. I can send the house an SMS (text message) to turn the heating on an hour before I get home. One key will turn the alarm on and close all the shutters. So my favourite gadget of 2002 will be getting all this technology to work!
Only digital transactions nerds like me will have noticed, but there's an important event this week. Saturday is E Day, the day on which the UK becomes the first member country to implement the EU directive on electronic money issuing. In other words, provided they comply with the Financial Services Authority (FSA)    rules, anyone who wants to, can issue electronic money (e-money). But who wants to?The rulesE-money seems to be back in focus again. The odd newspaper and magazine article may not seem like much, but it's a lot more than we were seeing six months ago. So why is this? Well, we're approaching a milestone in the brief history of e-money. On April 27, e-money regulation begins in the UK as the FSA acquires supervisory powers over e-money issuers. This process has its roots in an EU directive of October 2000, which introduced the concept of an Electronic Money Institution, or ELMI. The idea behind it was that it would provide a way to stimulate the nascent e-money field to experiment and innovate without the onerous requirement for companies to obtain banking licences.The UK is going to be the first member country to implement the relevant legislation and give the concept a try. The UK implementation is quite liberal. The rules are set out in Module ELM of the FSA Handbook, but in    essence, anyone who wants to issue electronic money will be able to, provided they meet the captial requirements of a million euros or 2% of the e-money outstanding. Thus, Vodafone could set up a subsidiary to issue e-money to be stored in mobile phone accounts, for example, without needing a bank in the loop. There is even a special waiver for small-scale implementations, so that if a school, for example, wanted to go cashless and give smart cards to pupils, it would be excluded from the more rigorous elements of the regulation. There are a few limits: the maximum "purse" value is set at &#163;1,000 (although that can be increased subject to certain conditions), the e-money must be valid for at least one year and it must be redeemed to lawful holders within five days. However,    most potential issuers will be quite satisfied with the regime, which will, in any case, be reviewed in 2005.Guess who?So who might want to apply for one of these licences and give it a try? The obvious examples are organisations that want to use electronic money (instead of notes and coins), and who either don't want to wait until banks take care of it for them or who think they can make a better business out of it than banks. The kind of organisations most likely to do this are mass transit operators and mobile phone operators. A number of just such organisations - including the Association of Train Operating Companies, Transport for London, Vodafone and T-Mobile, among others - have already banded together to form the Electronic Money Association (EMA), a new trade body to represent issuers and potential issuers of electronic money. Other members range from the Post Office and PayPal to BT and American Express.I'm sure they will be in the vanguard of the coming   generation of issuers.  But I also have sneaking suspicion that brand will have a major role to play in this new world. This is because e-money isn't only about making a profit from the currency itself (although according to the US department of treasury a dollar bill only costs 2.265 cents to make), it's also about leveraging through the currency. Consumers might, for example, want to transact in Manchester United pounds (they already use credit cards and savings accounts) or Microsoft dollars or Islamic gold e-dinars or Cornish e-tin for reasons that have nothing to do with the drivers for the use of traditional means of exchange (eg, liquidity, stability and so on).  Now that the marketing guys are getting involved, who knows what new products and services are on the horizon? Marketing, brands, regulated institutions, trade bodies and "normal" companies are getting involved: e-money is turning into a real business. Now I can shut up about it.Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
ProsecuteOne of the best ideas in the cover story on spam (Can the spam, April 18) is to require all business emails (not just mass mailings) to provide a valid return address. The worst non-spam offenders, ironically, are ISPs and other internet-based businesses (such as Telewest, Blueyonder, UKReg and PayPal) who force even their own customers to use web-forms to contact them, then send vague and irrelevant replies from invalid email addresses that bounce, so we can only respond by going back to the web-forms.UK company law already requires companies to publish their registered office addresses; it needs to be updated for modern communication to require all businesses that use the internet to publish email addresses.Adam Funkjfunk@co.umist.ac.ukDefendI take offence at you slating Hotmail: "Whether filtering is as aggressive as AOL's or as feeble as Hotmail's." Hotmail has by far and away the best   filtering facility, which is to segregate email into folders based simply on the sender. If the sender is not in your Address Book or Safe List, then it gets put in a junk mail folder, otherwise it goes to your Inbox. This wholly removes spam, and allows you to review other email by looking at the junk mail folder.Also, the claimed $200-a-year cost of spam email is ridiculous. Very few people use their work email address or "real" ISP email address when registering online. In addition to this, if they used Hotmail, they would be able to filter properly. Finally, you have to be online to read Hotmail, as it's an internet email service, therefore removing any cost per email statistic anyone cares to dream up.Simon Morrissjpmorris@hotmail.comPeople's courtI find my solution to the problem of spam extremely efficient. I simply open a new folder that filters all the addresses in my address book. If I see new mail in this folder, I know it is from somebody important; if I see mail in my Inbox I know, at least, who it is not from, and treat it as a low priority accordingly. Spam cannot get into the new mailbox, as it will only take mail from the addresses you personally specify.Alex Marshalexjpmarsh@yahoo.co.ukExhibit AI was not surprised in the   least to read of Jack Schofield's junk email problems on Hotmail. I have never mailed anyone from my Hotmail address, and I opted out of a listing in the directory. Yet my Hotmail inbox is flooded with spam. Following Microsoft's instruction to set the spam filter to "high" does little to alter the volume of spam.My Yahoo email address, on the other hand, receives hardly any spam at all, perhaps two or three per month. Nor do my Bigfoot and private domain addresses. Either Hotmail is poor at filtering spam or Hotmail is actively selling my address to spammers.Jon Foxjfoxhome@yahoo.co.ukJury's outIt's getting worse - spammers are now also faking the Reply-To: or Errors-To: lines, so they don't get the mail floods of rejections from the out-of-date address lists they use. Someone has done this for a non-existent address in my domain twice now, each time resulting in a flood of about 30,000 rejection messages from various mailer programs around the world.Fortunately I'm on flat-rate internet access on a fairly fast line, and my ISP allows me to reject messages for unknown addresses without a full download, but this kind of thing could easily be crippling for a small business.Dr David A Allsoppdaa@tqbase.demon.co.ukJudge JackThe hypothetical costs in the EU spam study are pretty ridiculous. Who in their right minds would tolerate an email system that brought them 20, let alone 60, spams a day without doing something systematic about it?I speak with some experience, having gone back to an email address I hadn't used for two years and discovered 2,800 messages (35MB) - the vast majority being spam.That underlines one major point about spam: it gets worse the longer an address exists (that one was around 18 years old) for obvious reasons - the address circulates and gets resold many times. So the easiest way to stop spam when it becomes a problem is simply to move.But when it starts to be a problem, most people put in junk filters which cope with the vast majority of cases -it's obviously better if these are with the ISP but then people are getting faster network connections so the download time isn't always the problem.I prefer setting up my own filters and stay away from systems that try to design them for me. My impression is that it does stop "a significant amount" of spam. I get very little real spam these days - but that's for many reasons, including ISP security.Chris Mosschris.moss9@ntlworld.comBlog bookedThanks so much for featuring my site, Rebecca Pocket   (www.rebeccablood.net), in Web watch (April 18).  However, I would like it to be noted that my site is not, in fact, built around my upcoming book, the Weblog Handbook; rather, the book exists as a result of the site. I was asked to write the book by an editor who is a reader of my site, which I have been maintaining for three years.Rebecca Bloodrebecca@rebeccablood.net
The success of Tony Blair's &#163;40bn gamble for the NHS hinges on the world's largest single IT project. Two months ago, ministers and civil servants - briefed by computer companies - persuaded the prime minister at a Downing Street seminar that the only   way to change the NHS enough to make a difference by the next general election is to computerise on a national scale.A "national implementation plan" to be presented to Blair by the end of May will set a timetable for hospitals and GPs to install a network of systems that will   allow patients to be treated anywhere in the country. The IT will be specified, designed and procured in record time, with installation due to begin on April 1 next year.The bill for e-enabling 1 million staff will be more than &#163;13bn over six years. "It's a major piece of public infrastructure, like roads, rail, electricity, fuel supply. It's on that scale," says Gwyn Thomas, chief executive of the NHS Information Authority (NHSIA), the organisation that will be charged with making it happen.Is the NHS up to the task? History suggests not. In the early to mid-1990s, the health service was notorious for wasting money on failed IT projects (see box). It's ancient history now, says a senior NHSIA executive. "We're not dummies any more."That is probably true, but the NHS still finds it hard to run its computers on time. This month alone, it missed two targets set out in the last IT masterplan, dating from 1998. One was for 35% of large hospitals to reach what the NHS calls "level three" of electronic patient records (there are six levels in all). Only five got there. The other target was for 60% of GPs to be able to call up their patients' laboratory test results electronically, rather than waiting for them to arrive on paper. The project has been on the go since 1996. But last month, Sir John Pattison, the department of health's civil servant responsible for NHS IT, admitted to the Healthcare Computing 2002 conference in Harrogate that the target would be missed.In the same month, the Audit Commission added to its catalogue of publications on the dire state of NHS IT with a report that found nearly half of the hospitals in England and Wales were unable to collect enough data to know if they are meeting government standards on waiting times.Three lessons are normally drawn from such failures. First, that healthcare is harder to computerise than, for example, banking. Second, the NHS, because of its size and complexity, poses special difficulties: hospitals normally take two years or more to buy new IT systems, by which time they may be obsolete.Third, the larger and more centrally directed an IT project, the more likely it is to go wrong.Blair's NHS e-revolution looks set to ignore these lessons. The implementation plan, as previewed in Pattison's Harrogate speech and a strategy document Delivering the NHS Plan published last   week, will be technically adventurous, national in scale and aggressively driven from the centre.At the February Downing Street seminar, officials presented a vision of how the e-NHS would look.Patients armed with information from NHS Direct and electronic access to their own records will tend to look after themselves rather than bother health services. With electronically ordered drugs, they won't even need to visit their GPs for repeat prescriptions.When they do need an appointment, they will have booked online in advance and their GP will have access to a full electronic record. The doctor will order tests and receive results online; if she's not sure of the diagnosis, a computerised "expert system" will help. If a hospital appointment is needed, it will be booked at a time to suit the patient, making it more likely that he or she turns up.At the hospital, "workflow" software will coordinate procedures and create a discharge summary from the electronic patient-record. The system will also notify social services and GPs if the patient needs follow-up care at home.And last but not least, the system will create information for the NHS to tell the government - and its customers - how it is performing.In Delivering the NHS Plan, it says: "For the first time citizens will have independently validated information of how their money has been spent on healthcare in their own area and what progress has been made."The implementation plan for turning this vision into reality relies on four national IT projects.Basic infrastructureContracts for the NHS's existing internal network expire next year. A new network will take broadband connections across the NHS and - controversially - link to other parts of government and public services.Electronic recordsDavid Lloyd George, the Liberal prime minister during the first world war, lives on in the NHS: envelopes in which medical records are stored are named after him. The implementation plan will speed up the move to electronic records, first by creating a slimline   basic record that will be accessible anywhere in the NHS.The NHSIA has started work on what it calls the Health Records Infrastructure (HRI), which will pull details from different systems to form a virtual record of the care and treatment each patient receives. Full electronic patient records will be available in all trusts by 2008. US studies show that such systems can cut the average length of a patient's stay in hospital by 10.5%.Electronic prescribingPaper prescription forms waste time and money and can even kill patients when   pharmacists misread doctors' handwriting. They are seen as an early candidate for computerisation. Another attraction of electronic prescribing is that computers can guide doctors away from brand-name drugs to cheaper generic alternatives.Electronic bookingThis is the prime minister's big idea for boosting the NHS's capacity. According to Delivering the NHS Plan, by 2005 all patients and GPs will be able to book appointments at both a time and a place that is convenient to the patient. "The latest IT systems will allow GPs and patients to see   which hospitals have capacity available to treat more patients more quickly and book online."Today, this is science fiction: most hospitals lack the technology to see at a glance how many of their own beds are empty, let alone anyone else's. Enthusiasts often compare electronic booking to airline reservation systems, but the analogy doesn't hold. Hospital reservations have to be accompanied by a lot more information than a name and contact telephone number. There is also the question of protocol: technically, when GPs refer a patient to a hospital specialist they don't order   an appointment, they "request" one. IT-driven NHS reformers ignore such professional niceties at their peril.These systems will cost a lot of money. Today, the NHS in England spends about &#163;1.1bn on ICT (information and communications technology). The report conducted by Derek Wanless and commissioned by the chancellor Gordon Brown into the NHS's future funding suggests that this doubles next year (2003-4) and peaks at &#163;2.7bn in 2007-8. This adds up to more than &#163;13bn over six years - or to put it another way, &#163;13,000 for every employee in the NHS today.Is there any reason for optimism that this money will not be thrown away? Ellen Pirie, head of healthcare at Microsoft UK - one of the companies whose lobbying is responsible for Blair's enthusiasm for IT - says much has changed since the disaster days.Costs have come down, and new internet-based technical standards such as XML make NHS-wide integration a real possibility. Attitudes have also changed, says Pirie. "There's much more acceptance that IT can help and make a difference, particularly in the clinical community. There's a critical mass of people who are almost pushing for it, rather than seeing it as an administrative overhead, something to hide from. They're becoming a vocal group, pushing it forward."Another reason for optimism is, paradoxically, the reason for the biggest worry. It is clear that, contrary to the main thrust of the NHS reforms, the IT plan will be heavily directed from the centre. "We have to be prepared to control the way that those extra resources for IT are spent in the NHS much more centrally than we have in the past," Pattison warned.The model is NHS Direct, which was always seen as a national scheme - and had the prime minister's personal blessing. It was achieved almost to timetable and it works.Blair's gamble is that he can repeat the NHS Direct experience on a much bigger scale. Optimistic, perhaps, but Pattison says that IT is the only card the prime minister has to play. "There is a recognition that we could improve care and services more rapidly through the better use of IT than in areas which require the training of extra nurses, physiotherapists or doctors."If Pattison were a politician rather than a civil servant, he would have phrased it another way. IT is the only hope for improving services quickly enough for the deadline that matters: general election day 2005.House of ill-computeWessex:1980s attempt to standardise IT systems across an entire old-style regional health authority. Project abandoned at a cost of at least &#163;43m, amid a spate of civil lawsuits and a criminal fraud trial.London Ambulance Service:Ambitious computer-aided dispatch   system failed, delaying ambulance call-outs. Blamed for the death of several patients.Read codes:Attempt to develop a new electronic language of health for the NHS at a cost of &#163;60m. The project collapsed amid allegations of unworkability and conflicts of interest. The   NHS has now adopted US clinical coding standards.Level three electronic patient record:Strategic goal for 35% of NHS acute hospital trusts to have "level 3" EPRs by April 2002. Hampered by lack of money and bureaucracy. Only five hospitals - barely 2% - achieved the target.
Klez timeA trusted email correspondent says she has received an email from me infected with the W32KlezH@mm virus, and I have received an infected email from someone else. But Norton - up to date in both cases - has not picked up anything, and is telling us that our systems are clean.Carol LeonardJack Schofield replies:Klez is dangerous because it can infect a PC without you opening an attachment: viewing mail in a preview pane is enough. However, when Klez mails itself to other people, it chooses email addresses at random. It is possible for someone to receive an infected email that looks as though it came from you but came from someone else. The fact that an infected email has your address on it does not prove your PC is infected.There are three things all PC users need to do. First, check for viruses with an up-to-date set of virus signatures. Norton has only been able to detect this variant since April 17 - last Wednesday - so probably not many people will be up to date enough.Second, run a virus check online either usingHousecall,Symantec Security Checkor a similar service. This is important if Klez has disabled your copy of Norton Anti-Virus, or whatever.Third, install a patch to plug the security hole. In this case, the fix has been available fromMicrosoftfor more than a year. However, I would repeat the advice I gave here on April 4: install thecumulative security update.Users who can't be bothered to install this patch may face much more difficult problems in the future.StraysWhen I perform my routine back up, I see many files describing themselves as ~WRLnnnn.tmp where nnnn is a four-digit number. I cannot find them in Windows Explorer. How can I delete them?Harold StokesStevenageJS:These are temporary files created by Microsoft Word so that it can recover some or all of your document if something goes wrong. They are   deleted when the document is saved and Word is closed down normally. To see the strays, run Windows Explorer, select Tools|Folder Options and click on the View tab. Click to select the radio button for Show hidden files and folders, then click OK. You can remove all these temporary files by using Windows Explorer to select the hard drive and pressing F3. Search for ~wrl and delete them in the Search box.Import itI want to import my Netscape address book into Outlook Express. Netscape exports as *.ldif; Outlook wants to import as *.wab. Are they incompatible?Richard ParishJS:Run the Outlook Express Address Book, select File|Import|Other Address Book and pick the LDIF option. For further help, seeMicrosoftor search Google for Q242008.Mac runCan I run an application I have written in VB6, which uses data from an Access   database, on an iMac?Michael HughesWarwickJS:No, Microsoft Visual Basic is not available for the Apple Macintosh. I think you can only run a VB6 program by running Windows on the Mac first, eg using Connectix's Virtual PC.Backchat&#183;Juliet Burgess was suffering from power interruptions that restarted her PC when it was supposed to be switched off. Ed Corteen, Chris Wardley and Roger Moore suggested changing the PC's BIOS setting. "My Phoenix BIOS has an item in the Boot menu of After Power Failure, which has a (non-default) option of Stay off," explained Moore. Ian West and Paul Bailey suggested adding an RCD (Residual Current Device) plug costing about &#163;15. "This has a Reset button that you need to press to activate it, so if mains power goes off for any reason, then the RCD stays off until you have manually reset it," said Bailey. Thanks to all the readers who wrote in.&#183;There are other ways to open Google results in new browser Windows, apart from the right-click menu option I mentioned last week. Tom McHenry suggests holding down the shift key while left-clicking as usual. John Kaye points out that you can tell Google to do this automatically using its Preferences page.&#183;ADSL-user Joia Shillingford was looking for a way to fax Word documents via the web (March 28). She foundInterfaxeasy to use, but "after 15 days you do have to pay &#163;10.36 if you want to keep the software."To send Word files as faxes, theMaxEmailservice works well. It sends faxes from a US number but I preferred it to  because there is no monthly charge. It costs $10 to register and $14.85 a year. A two-and-a-bit page fax to London cost $0.40 (28p). Better than standing over a hot fax machine!"http://www.efax.com
The BBC is closing its commercial web division, Beeb Ventures, the joint venture with US investment firm TH Lee Puttnam Ventures, once valued at 240m.Despite the power of brands such as Top of the Pops and Top Gear, the corporation's plan to use them to drive retail sales has proved a disappointment.It was hoped the network of sites would grow to rival e-tailing heavyweights like Amazon but the marriage of BBC magazine and TV brands and shopping never took off.Around 38 staff will be affected by the closure, although some will be offered jobs elsewhere at the BBC. In January, the subsidiary axed 40 staff in an effort to save money, while its chief executive, Julian Turner, also quit.The division was launched in September 2000 with a 32.5m investment from TH Lee Puttnam Ventures. The US firm bought its 13.5% stake when Beeb Ventures was valued at 240m.A BBC Worldwide spokeswoman said any money remaining in the venture would be returned to TH Lee, while it would also retain certain rights relating to the sites involved."These changes are designed to maximise the value of the branded websites and Beeb.net and further reduce costs," added the spokeswoman.Many of the sites housed by Beeb Ventures, including Top of the Pops, Radio Times and Top Gear, will move under the wing of magazine business BBC Worldwide.The move will please commercial rivals who have long complained the BBC was using licence-funded brands to promote shopping sites.While some will continue to offer retail services, it is thought they will be restricted to programme-related merchandising and reader offers.Others, such as the Top of the Pops website, will cease to be shopping sites altogether but will remain to support their respective magazine brands.Beeb.com, the troubled shopping portal that has existed in one form or another since 1997, will remain as a portal linking to the BBC Worldwide sites, while the BBC has also pledged to retain its internet service provider Beeb.net.
Worldwide government investment in online service delivery has paid off, according to a study by consulting firm Accenture, which found a marked improvement in the efficiency and user-friendliness of government sites over the last year.Canada, Singapore and the US came top in the survey of 23 government sites. The UK filed in at number six, edging out the net-savvy Finnish government which has already begun offering services via mobile phones.Researchers credited improved ratings to better cooperation between government departments, the hiring of staff with experience in private sector customer relations, and a focus on ease of use. All of these created a customer-friendly online atmosphere and improved service delivery. Canada, for example, promised to respond to user emails within 24 hours, while courts in Singapore allowed certain users to file small claims cases online.Some of Accenture's findings seem generous compared with recent criticisms of UK online public service delivery. Accenture noted that overall the best online offerings were tax collection and postal services, however a national audit office report in February found that four out of five attempts by UK tax payers to file online failed due to user errors or technical problems.The UK government has also faced charges from the NAO that it could end up wasting millions in public money by creating user-unfriendly services. Despite a government target of providing all services online by December 2005, the NAO found that only 52% of the 524 routine government services currently had an internet presence, and only 3% actually allowed users to conduct a transaction.The Accenture top ten:CanadaSingaporeUSAustraliaDenmarkUKFinlandHong KongGermanyIceland
If you go to buy a new car you expect to find, around the back, a discreet selection of pre-owned models of the utmost distinction. So why should the book trade be different? The question has been brought into sharp focus by Amazon.com, the online retailer, which has been attacked by the American Authors' Guild for selling secondhand books off the same page as new ones.Now the practice has spread to Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.de, the German site. If you go there looking for a paperback of Naomi Klein's No Logo, you will be offered a new copy, at 20% off retail, and - just as prominently - the chance to buy a secondhand copy from the Paperback Exchange, for 50p less than that. The purchase can be made with a credit card through Amazon's own payment system, just as easily as you can buy books from Amazon itself. Amazon takes a flat fee of 75p and 15% of the value as well from the seller. But, as Rachel Silk, a spokeswoman for the company says, the seller gets to display in one of the world's biggest shop windows. Five million people have bought books from Amazon in Europe so far.The authors' guild is upset because the secondhand copies so easy to buy make no money for either author or publisher. Amazon is marketing the service aggressively. In response to criticism, Jeff Bezos, the company's founder, sent out a letter saying "We've found that our used books business does not take business away from the sale of new books. In fact, offering customers a lower-priced option causes them to visit our site more frequently, which in turn leads to higher sales of new books while encouraging customers to try authors and genres they may not have otherwise tried. In addition, when a customer sells used books, it gives them a budget to buy more new books."The service has certainly been a success for Amazon, which has lost millions of dollars in its quest to dominate the online market for almost everything. The company claims there are half a million items - not all of them books - being sold like this and that in the last quarter of last year these secondhand deals accounted for 15% of American sales.The Society of Authors in this country is fairly worried. Mark LeFanu, its secretary, says: "I expect authors will be concerned because of the potential loss of sales and the blurring of the distinction between new and secondhand books. But most of them are hardly aware that it is going on yet." In fact, the new marketing can add another layer to the humiliations that Amazon can heap upon an author's head, because not all authors can sustain a secondhand market. Many derive pleasure from their public lending right statements, just because these show that someone has borrowed and enjoyed a book, no matter how small the profit to the author. And some, even in the US, are furious with the authors' guild for complaining that more people read. Georgina Capel, the London literary agent, says that Amazon is far better for authors and for publishers than WH Smith or Waterstone's, and that selling secondhand books can only be good for the trade in the long run. None the less, the author's guild suggests that its authors link to the website of Barnes and Noble, Amazon's greatest rival. B&amp;N also sells secondhand books, but from a separate area of its website, so they are not hawked directly to customers who have come to buy a new book.American authors, or some of them, are obviously jealous of the ways in which the digital industries, like music and software, have been able to control the rights of their users. Bezos wrote in his email that "when someone buys a book, they are also buying the right to resell that book, to loan it out, or to even give it away if they want. Everyone understands this." Except, apparently, American authors jealous of the kind of rights that Disney or Microsoft can exert over their goods. You cannot buy a copy of Microsoft Windows to dispose of as you will. If you look at the small print, you are buying the right to use it on one machine only and you are not supposed to sell the software when you sell on the machine.The most important thing that no one is saying in all this indignation is that Amazon or B&amp;N are actually among the most expensive places on the net to buy secondhand books. Amazon has for years been offering secondhand books brought from networks of second-hand booksellers which formed very early on the web. But the company, quite reasonably, took its own mark-up, often 50%. Canny buyers could go direct to such sites as Alibris or abebooks.com, through which independent or local booksellers from all over the world can advertise their stock in a sort of giant virtual Hay-on-Wye. Amazon offers one second-hand copy of Anthony Beevor's Stalingrad, for &#163;7.29. Abebooks offers 53 copies from nearly as many booksellers, with the cheapest starting at &#163;3.It is often the case that what you save on Amazon's cover price, you pay in their postage charges. But it turns out that this applies even to secondhand books. Looking at the offer on No Logo, it turns out that the Paperback Exchange charges &#163;2.75 in postage. Add that to the secondhand price and you could get a new copy from a local bookshop for less. This isn't even good news for the anti-capitalist movement, which ought to be in favour of secondhand books. It looks as if the sale of secondhand books at Amazon is no more of a threat to civilisation than the local Oxfam shop.
The battle for supremacy in the video games market between Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo became a full-blown price war yesterday.Nintendo cut the price of its GameCube console from &#163;170 to &#163;129 - even though the machine does not go on sale in Britain until May 3.The 24% cut was mirrored by a reduction for mainland Europe, where the price fell from &euro;250 to &euro;199.The move by the Japanese manufacturer - best known for its long-established GameBoy pocket games console - came five days after Microsoft knocked down the price of its new Xbox games console from &#163;299 to &#163;199."This is very positive for the industry," said Jo Taylor of Game, the specialist retailer formerly known as Electronics Boutique. "It's the first time we've seen a new console launched at an affordable price."Microsoft's price cut came after disappointing sales in Europe and Asia, with its new machine being outsold by the GameCube and Sony's PlayStation2 consoles in the crucial Japanese market.Analysts predict that Sony will shortly follow suit by cutting the PlayStation2's retail price of &#163;199."Sony will respond with a PS2 price cut within a month at most," said Clive Savage of Forrester Research. "At the same price point as the Xbox, the PS2 now looks tame - Sony has to cut &euro;50 off its console price in response to Microsoft's and Nintendo's moves."David Gocen, managing di rector of Nintendo Europe, said the company had already taken 30,000 orders for the GameCube in the UK and expected that number to reach 50,000 by launch."We had originally planned to offer GameCube below &euro;200 but needed to figure out specific production costs before actually announcing the price," said Hiroshi Imanishi, head of Nintendo's public relations office.All three manufacturers are determined to build up a large user base. The consoles are sold at a loss, with the makers hoping to make profits from licensing and royalties from the game software titles, which retail for &#163;40 to &#163;50 each when first released.The PS2 and Xbox differ from the GameCube in that the older consoles can double as DVD players.
The hard-hit telecoms sector today received another blow as Ericsson, the world's telecoms equipment maker, announced 17,000 job cuts and warned of lower sales.The Stockholm-based group will axe 7,000 workers over the rest of this year with a further 10,000 jobs set to go next year. Sales tumbled 25% in the first quarter of the year as the group made a net loss of more than 5.4bn Swedish kronor (248m). The news caused Ericsson shares to plunge by a fifth.Piling on the gloom for the hi-tech market and particularly telecoms, Ericsson said the mobile systems market is now expected to be down by more than 10% this year, compared with previous estimates of zero to 10%. The only upbeat news that the president and chief executive, Kurt Hellstrom, could offer was that the group should return to profit "at some point" in 2003.After rapid expansion in the mid-1990s, telecoms have taken a battering in the global downturn. Ericsson axed one-fifth of its workforce last year and has already announced 3,000 more job cuts since January.Ericsson said that it was too early to say whether today's plans would affect Ericsson's dwindling UK workforce. The group now employs little over 1,000 staff with its main sites in Guildford, Surrey, and Brighton and Burgess Hill, west Sussex."Everyone knew it was going to be pretty awful. But the scale of it and the steps they are taking is slightly more than the market was looking for," Alex Scott, analyst at Seven Investment Management, said.Ericsson's loss was larger than expected and the group unveiled plans to raise about 30bn kronor in a rights issue. In the one positive surprise, SonyEricsson, a handset-making joint venture with the Japanese electronics firm, managed to break even but probably lost market share in the quarter.The job cuts will take Ericsson's workforce to 65,000 and should reduce costs by 20bn kronor. The same amount was shaved off costs last year as the group slashed 22,000 jobs, shutting plants in Carlton, Nottinghamshire and Scunthorpe in the UK.Ericsson's grim news hit telecoms shares in London with Vodafone, mmO2, BT and Cable & Wireless all sliding lower in the City. Ericsson's gloomy outlook, on top of a bigger than expected quarterly loss, is even more pessimistic than last week's forecasts by rivals Nokia of Finland and Canada's Nortel Networks.Nokia, the world's largest handset maker, warned that sales would grow by a maximum of 9% this year, down from an earlier forecast of 15%, while Motorola of the US remains in the red.Ericsson shares sank 24% to a five-year low of 27.3 kronor in early Stockholm trade, before  steadying at 28.2 by late morning.
Blogger.comnow supports theMozillaweb browser, which is now at the first release candidate stage (that means they're ironing out the last few bugs). This is interesting because Blogger, until now, only worked with later versions of Microsoft's omnipresent Internet Explorer browser, freezing out those who chose to use something different. Alas, by adapting Blogger's HTML code so it works to internet standards (rather than Microsoft's standards), the web service no longer shows up properly in earlier versions of Internet Explorer... a problem any webmaster will know only too well.
Microsoft fears IBM - and hype - rather than Sun, and Java, will damage the web services movement, thinksSilicon.com
Last January there was a hoax email doing the rounds advertising the services of Coincidence Design, a company that offered to "stalk" any woman of a man's choosing. It would find out as many intimate details about her life as possible so that the man could then approach her, pretend that they had a lot in common and "engineer" a romance.The idea seemed hideous - and especially to me. A couple of months before, I had met a man on the internet who used similar methods on me. I had been lulled into believing our relationship was special, but was left feeling used and violated.I started using the nerve.com chatroom just over a year ago. The magazine I had been working on had folded and the people in the chatroom were more interesting than anyone I had met at the job centre. Having said that, the novelty would have worn off pretty quickly had it not been for Simon. Smart, sensitive and very funny, Simon immediately caught my attention - he had just split up with his girlfriend and was feeling down about it. I sympathised, feeling that I had found someone as much in need of moral support as I was, and was curious to learn more. Simon had had a boho upbringing in San Francisco and would, I thought, have had a life a million miles from my protestant Glaswegian upbringing. However, the more we talked the more we seemed to have in common.The first similarity was finding out that he and his girlfriend had split up after she had complained that the boutique-style hotel he had taken her to for Valentine's Day wasn't to her liking. How funny, I thought. Only a few hours previously I had been email moaning to a friend about how underwhelmed my boyfriend had been by the boutique hotel I had taken him to just a couple of weeks previously for his birthday. I told Simon and we laughed and said something about "wavelengths".After this, it became increasingly difficult not to marvel at how similar our lives were. He had friends who mirrored mine incredibly closely including a best female friend who had exactly the same problems and preoccupations that my female friend would email me about daily. It seemed so romantic that I could meet a guy on the other side of the world with whom I had so much in common and our daily instant message conversations, countless phone chats and thrice-weekly letters were full of the little bond-forming similarities that combine to make you feel that there might be something more than friendship brewing.We both had personal ads on the site and used to make little daily changes to them for each other's amusement. I had initially posted mine as a joke and one day, a few weeks after Simon and I had started talking I checked my in-tray. To my surprise there were a lot of replies, some from guys I wasn't interested in looks or personality-wise but a sizeable number from some who seemed uncannily perfect.While I really liked Simon I thought that there was no harm in answering a few of the other ads as well, on a platonic basis. One night Simon commented that "it was funny that the more he altered his ad for my consumption the more replies from other people he seemed to get". Thinking nothing of it, I laughed and asked to see some and we started comparing replies on a regular basis.The more I spoke to Simon, the happier I felt. I began to realise that I was in love, even though it seemed crazy to be in love with someone I had never met. I decided to end the relationship with my long-term boyfriend. Simon and I had talked for months about getting together in Spain - I was free to meet him at last.We spent a wonderful week in Barcelona, with no hint of the nightmare to come. I first saw Simon in the baggage reclaim hall. He stood just a few feet away, grinning at me. He was half Cajun/half Filipino - "flajun" as he described it - and had a very unusual face. His hair was dark and short - unremarkable - but his features were very delicate, almost feminine, apart from his nose which was Filipino flat. I remember his eyes best; long, thick eyelashes over large, almond eyes so brown that they looked almost black.He was lean, slim-hipped and wiry. Although he was 30 he looked younger. But I couldn't have cared less if he had had two heads - this was the most powerful mental connection I had felt in ages. I had fallen in love with Simon's mind, and that was more special and extraordinary than anything I had ever experienced.I walked towards him, lost for words, and in the end we didn't bother to speak - we just held each other for what must have been a very long time because when we stopped, we were the only people left in the terminal. It was odd to be face to face for the first time but he was very affectionate and understanding, constantly declared his love and the days flew by in a daze. Our last night was deeply emotional. We spent the evening in various bars and at around 2am he started crying and saying how sad he was that we had to part. A few hours later, at the airport, we were both in floods of tears, clutching each other and sobbing until our flights were called.I returned to London comforting myself with the thought that it was only a couple of months until we could see each other again - he was coming to London for Christmas.Then, one day, I was looking for an article of mine on the Google internet search engine and noticed an online journal apparently written by someone with the same name as mine. I looked at it out of curiosity and discovered that this woman had written up some of the most intimate details of her life, all of them identical to my own. The date her journal started was the same as the one on which I had begun my online connection to Simon.I felt strangely uneasy. I logged on to nerve.com again and checked the responses to my ad. There was a new one from someone who said he was Australian, signed himself "Simon" and made a couple of references identical to things that Simon had said to me. My thoughts began to spiral. It seemed pretty obvious that he had made up a spoof ad in response to mine, so how many of the other ads I had received over the eight months were spoofs? All of them? Was it just Simon doing this? Or was he doing it with a bunch of friends, just for fun? He must have read every single thing I had written back to these "other men". Was he also responsible for this online journal that seemed to be about my life and was written under my name? I didn't know what to believe - suddenly things Simon had said to me on holiday started to seem more ambiguous than they had at the time. I began to analyse everything about the trip, not to mention all the stuff we had discussed during the eight months before we met.The next day I arranged, via email, to meet a friend at a certain wine bar. Afterwards, I spoke to Simon and the first thing he said was, "Oh, you'll have to excuse me. I feel a little drunk, I've been having lunch with a friend in a wine bar." The day after that I was emailed by the public relations department of Audi cars, asking if I would like to test drive the new model. When I spoke to Simon later, the first thing he said was: "Oh, I was walking past the Audi showroom today and I saw the new model, I'd love to take it for a test drive."That was it, I had had enough. But in the end I didn't get the chance to end it myself - we were talking via instant message the next evening, and having a fairly normal conversation despite my growing alarm, when, out of the blue, he called me on my mobile phone. In a tone of voice utterly different to the one I had been used to, he said: "Look Jenny, why did you think a Filipino guy would want anything to do with a British girl? You're like dogs begging and sniffing for scraps."I was floored. After he hung up I actually thought I might have imagined what he had said. But when I rang a couple of days later to ask what he had meant, he replied in his usual tone: "I didn't say anything - what do you mean? I love you."By now I was so confused I felt on the verge of a breakdown. I rang him later that day to end the relationship, whereupon he started crying.Over the next few weeks I received several letters from him containing various clues. First, there was an article about email trawling, ie hacking into other people's mail, and he had mentioned a few times that he suspected that his ex-girlfriend was hacking into his mails - now I began to wonder if he had actually been hacking into my emails and using the information to make up a parallel life.I felt physically sick at the thought. Why would anyone go to such lengths? Then I remembered something he had said months before about how he loved playing games and put "all of his effort into the game". I had assumed he meant chess or sports but it began to dawn on me that he might have meant something else. My suspicions were confirmed when he sent me another letter explaining that while some guys liked "point and shoot" games he was "more into mental ones". When Simon sent that final spoof response to my ad pretending to be an Australian, he wanted me to carry on "playing". If I had responded, we would probably still be talking now.I have been floored by the experience of being an unwitting pawn in a bizarre game set up by someone with whom I thought I was forming a meaningful relationship; and I shudder to think that he is out there doing it to someone else.I have complained to the website about what he did but it wasn't taken seriously and nothing has been done. I suppose that in some ways it's like complaining to the Royal Mail if you get sent a nasty letter - but I still can't accept that he should be allowed to get away with what he did.
On the second floor of a nondescript office building in Victoria, central London, four young men tap intensely into keyboards as phrases such as 'Panic Room', 'Resident Evil' and 'Spiderman' flash up on their monitors. Hooked up to online file-swapping networks such as WinMX and Morpheus, they are searching for 'hot downloads', from films to computer games, that can be theirs free of charge at the click of a mouse.But unlike the millions of internet users who exploit such networks each day to swap copyrighted material, Jimmy, Bill, Neil and Bruce are online detectives rather than pirates. From this office, among laptops and flashing network cables, they set powerful software agents crawling the net's murkier corners to detect, identify and remove files that should not be there.Over 24 hours each day, their computers track the albums and movies that their rightful owners may have spent millions to create. For as illegal file-swapping becomes ever more popular, these technicians' customers - from Metallica to Michael Jackson - are finding that only constant vigilance can afford them any control over their work.The record industry may have won a legal victory against Napster last July,but dozens of other file-swapping communities have emerged in its wake. The monitoring company that employs these investigators, NetPD, estimates that one such network, FastTrack-KaZaA, let people download 3.6 billion files during February alone, based on 4 billion separate search requests. And every day, another band, games developer or film director falls victim.Newspapers began reviewing the new Oasis album last week as the record industry was lamenting the latest slump in music sales. And Oasis fans unwilling to wait for the July release of Heathen Chemistry found a far more immediate - and economical - way to enjoy tracks such as 'Songbird' and 'She Is Love'. By logging on to any of dozens of song-swapping web communities, they, and newspaper reviewers, could download pirated copies in less time than Liam Gallagher takes to sink another pint. No wonder the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry blamed internet piracy on Tuesday as it announced a worrying 5 per cent fall in global CD sales.Two weeks ago a few fan sites began offering MP3 files of Oasis tracks apparently leaked when the album was being recorded. Then, as word spread, the album - which Sony says is not the final version - began circulating freely on file-swapping networks such as Morpheus and LimeWire. 'When someone has downloaded it they might make it available via file-sharing, and then someone else downloads it,' explained Jollyon Benn, investigating the leak for the British Phonographic Industry. 'It's gone from being a fairly small problem on Monday to being completely out of control by Friday.'Just how out of control online file-swapping has become in recent months is revealed in an  Observer investigation that shows how far the record, film and games industries are losing market share. The software that powers one such community, KaZaA, was downloaded 3.2 million times last week. As internet connections become faster and CD and DVD burners cheaper, it becomes ever easier for the amateur pirate to trade anything from a bootleg album to a high-quality Hollywood movie.If you want to watch the film Blade II, for instance, you can now choose from around 125,000 people currently offering it as an internet download. Ali G's new film is available from 3,000 separate hosts. If you have a broadband internet connection, even a high-quality DVD file of around 650MB can be downloaded in a couple of hours, and then burned on to a disc.That's why record and film companies are now rushing to encrypt their CDs and DVDs with copy protection software that limits where and how they may be played. In Washington, a Bill introduced by Senator Fritz Hollings seeks to go further and make it illegal to make or sell any device for record ing or playing digital content that does not reject unencrypted discs.To discover the extent of the problem, The Observer asked NetPD to monitor the availability of current movies over a 24-hour period last week. If you wanted to watch Mission: Impossible II, there were at least 83,000 unauthorised copies to choose from. If you preferred The Scorpion King, you could pick any of 96,000 files. From Ocean's Eleven to The Lord of the Rings, almost all the big recent Hollywood hits are available to anyone equipped with a fast enough internet connection.Over a four-week period, NetPD calculates that more than 28 million video files are exchanged through the major online net works. 'Film has become a real problem,' says Jim Stoddart, NetPD's chairman. 'Within the Gnutella community, requests for DVD files have recently overtaken those for music and even pornography. On Friday morning we found 65,613 people active in a small corner of the Gnutella network.'Music remains the most commonly swapped format. On Friday it took The Observer a minute to locate and download Oasis's new single, 'The Hindu Times', using KaZaA, and a further 22 minutes to download the official video.Using a machine that costs as little as &#163;100, users can 'burn' - copy - audio or video files on to a blank disc. If the network involves no central computer - as is mostly the case nowadays - it is difficult for the lawyers representing the song's legal owners to find a target to shut down. 'You had a way to get at Napster because there was an entity to litigate against,' says Stoddart.NetPD claims to have taken 52 million files offline last year, but that is the tip of the iceberg. In February, according to NetPD's investigations, the album  Hybrid Theory by the band Linkin Park, was downloaded more than 5.3 million times.  Hybrid Theory was the top selling album last year in the US, but what worries the record industry is that it sold only 4.8 million copies - the first time since 1966 that the national best-seller had sold fewer than 5 million.Sarah Roberts, communications manager for the British Phonographic Industry, says: 'People think downloads don't do anyone any harm, but they forget that everyone from the session musicians to the producers get their income from music sales. If the record companies don't make a profit on the big-name artists, they cannot reinvest and sign new artists. There will simply be less music to buy.'As broadband connections grow, the film industry is set to be the next victim. Ken Jacobsen, director of the Motion Picture Association's worldwide anti-piracy unit, says: 'There is a substantial problem with the offering of illegal downloads of our members' films, and we believe this problem will continue to grow.'As broadband deploys around the globe, we expect film piracy on the internet will increase substantially.'For online sleuths such as NetPD's team, that can only be good for business.Top 10 downloaded movies1 Black Hawk Down169,0002 The Fast and the Furious168,0003 The Lord of the Rings165,0004 Ocean's Eleven154,0005 Harry Potter147,0006 Monsters Inc146,0007 Collateral Damage134,0008 American Pie 2126,0009 A Beautiful Mind125,00010 Ali100,000Top 10 pirated albums downloaded last month1 Linkin Park -Hybrid Theory5,300,0002 POD - Satellite2,800,0003 Creed - Weathered2,600,0004 Sum 41 - All Killer No Filler2,500,0005 Britney Spears - Britney2,000,0006 Nelly - Country Grammar2,000,0007 Nelly, et al - Training Day Soundtrack1,800,0008 Creed - Human Clay1,600,0009 Usher - 87011,500,00010 Incubus - Make Yourself1,500,000
The people who want to know where the PC industry is going, in the short term, trackWinHEC, the annual Windows Hardware Engineering Conference, where the manufacturers get together. CNet has rounded up a dozen stories from last week's event. Among the things worth noting areSCP (Simple Control Protocol), a royalty-free extension to UPnP (Universal Plug and Play) for networking home appliances.
Could IBM and Microsoft take over the net? The problem is that emerging Web services standards include their patented software technologies. These could be made available on RAND (reasonable and non-discriminatory) terms, but Internet standards really need to beroyalty-free. David Berlind has sounded more than onewarning. See also thisresponseto analyst Amy Wohl.
The Japanese have built what is said to bethe world's fastest supercomputer. More detailshere
The freest free speech in the Guardian is probably that found on the talk boards of our website. The latter embody one of the primary democratic virtues of the internet, in theory at least: unmediated discourse on any subject with the unrestricted participation of anyone who has anything to say. They began on the Guardian's website almost immediately after its launch a little over three years ago.The Guardian provides the forum, generically known as "the Talk", and during a month many thousands of you - in some months perhaps 200,000 or more - take advantage of that. With around four million page impressions - page views - a month, it vies with the jobs as the second most popular site, after news, on Guardian Unlimited.The subjects most discussed over the past few months have been the Middle East, the aftermath of September 11 and the "War on Terror", then domestic politics and other domestic issues. These discussions have been conducted by the participants themselves, for the most part in the tones of a civilised, if lively, conversation: we shall come to the departures, lapses and penalties in a minute.There is no close parallel for this kind of exchange, in its immediacy and degree of freedom, anywhere else in the Guardian, although it might be seen as an expression of a principle that moves the paper as a whole. Restrictions of any kind run counter to its spirit. Those responsible for this area of the website run it with a minimum of rules and with an instinct not to intervene, to edit or delete or censor. The proven principle is that abstinence makes the user grow fonder.At its best, the talk board epitomises the kind of interactivity - in this case user-to-user - that the paper wants with its readership as a whole. However you define a Guardian reader, passivity is unlikely to be considered a primary characteristic.Anyone can have access to the talk boards by registering and providing an email address, password and a user name which will sign all that user's contributions to the running debates. This will enable that user to post remarks in any of the discussions taking place, or to start a new one.Talk board users are an obvious expression of the idea of   community on the internet and on Guardian Unlimited in particular (groups of the Guardian's users sometimes arrange to meet in a pub or cafe). When you use the talk boards you show your pass at the door, so to speak, and enter a kind of club in which a huge number of conversations are going on simultaneously. The quality of these conversations, although often high, varies greatly and is sometimes quite poor. Good or bad, all the utterances remain with a frozen spontaneity to be scrutinised later and sometimes objected to.Everyone who participates in these conversations should be aware of Guardian Unlimited's talk policy. It is as much an appeal as a warning. "We want the Talk to be the place on the net where you will always find lively, entertaining and, above all, intelligent discussions. The last thing the net needs is yet another site where any attempt at conversation is drowned out by a few people hurling mindless abuse at each other."It goes on to say that sometimes, and reluctantly, some postings have to be removed, and indicates the reasons why this might be done. "We discourage obscenity and mindless abuse... We will not tolerate racism, sexism or homophobia. We will remove any content that may put us in legal jeopardy... We will consider removing any content that other users might find extremely offensive or threatening. If you act with maturity and consideration for other users, you should have no problems on our boards."And so we come to the space between theory and practice. More bans are being imposed than at any time since the talk boards started, although we are still speaking of a tiny number. Where it was once extremely rare to ban a user, there are now on average two bannings or banishments a week. Because of the ease with which some email addresses and user names can be changed, however, it is possible that a few individuals are being repeatedly banned under different names.More postings than before are being removed, and users warned that they risk banning by breaches of the few guidelines. Some have been warned because of racist remarks in the context of the Middle East conflict.Although vigilance is exercised, it is impossible to watch all the talk boards all the time. Users themselves will usually draw attention to something that seems to abuse and therefore threaten the freedom that they enjoy. The present policy of intervention as rarely as possible is still the correct one and possibly the only one.&#183;Readers may contact the office of the readers' editor by telephoning 0845 451 9589 between 11am and 5pm, Monday to Friday (all calls are charged at local rate). Mail to: Readers' editor, The Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER. Fax 020-7239 9997. Email:reader@guardian.co.ukApologyWe have been experiencing technical problems with our talkboards for the past few days so you may have some difficulty accessing them. We are working to restore normal service and apologise for any inconvenience caused.
Three Yorkshire universities have come together to launch a 'super-internet' research grid which will allow the universities to collaborate on high level research.The White Rose Computational Grid has boosted the computational research capacity of researchers from the universities of Leeds, York and Sheffield, who make up the White Rose Consortium. The group will now be able to analyse larger data sets than ever before. Universities will be able to access the same information and analysis systems.Martin Doxey, of York University is leading the consortium. He said: "The concept is like electricity supply, you link computers together just like an electricity grid."The grid has massive computational power which is well beyond the capability of a single White Rose university. It offers a novel, cost-effective computing environment to enable more effective sharing resources, knowledge and experiences in order to develop a wide portfolio of internationally important new projects."It really is an exciting and quite unique project, which paves the way for the next generation of internet computing. We have ambitions to take our grid further afield, joining the e-science grid and international grids to spread the benefits across the world."Doxey says that the system helps collaborative work involving very large data sets. "Where there's a large data mining enquiry you can link up the computers for larger capacity," he said.The WRCG has been developed at a cost of 2.8m, with 400,000 backing from the regional development agency Yorkshire Forward, and is set to go live this summer.The grid will enable researchers in mathematics, natural sciences, earth and environmental sciences and engineering to pool resources and knowledge. Researchers in bio-informatics and bio-medical sciences as well as computer science and informatics will also be able to make use of the system. It's capacity will also allow vast chemical reaction simulations.
Sun'sthird quarter revenues plunged by 24% to $3.1 billion and the company turned last year's $136 million profits into a $37 million loss. The company managed to shed almost 4,000 staff. The Mercury headline was: "Sun's loss better than expected; outlook promising".
Microsoft'sthird quarter revenues grew by 13% to $7.25 billion and operating profits by 30% to $3.3 billion. Today's Guardian described the company as "ailing", but not all analysts agreed. For example, Reuters quoted Brendan Barnicle, an analyst with Pacific Crest Securities, saying: "They actually blew away the quarter's numbers." The financials arehere.
Microsoft yesterday cut the price of its Xbox video  games console in Europe by a third to kick-start sales,  as the software group warned that profits would be lower than expected both in the fourth quarter and next  year.Shares in Microsoft fell by about 8% in after-hours  trading on the news. The group said worldwide demand  for software had been slow to pick up despite signs of  a recovery in the US economy. "We do see continued  softness in IT spend," said John Connors, chief  financial officer.The company has staked much on the launch of Xbox  into the fiercely competitive games market but said  shipments for the year ending June are likely to be  between 3.5m to 4m, scaling back previous forecasts of 4.5m to 6m.The group admitted that while Xbox had won critical  acclaim, sales of consoles had been "somewhat lower  than expected" in Europe and Japan. By cutting the  price of Xbox from 299 to 199 the company hopes to  head off complaints from gamers that the hi-tech  gadget is expensive compared with market leader  Sony's PlayStation2.The company admitted the price had held sales back  and set a new target for the 2003 financial year of  between 9m and 11m units."The playing field in Europe has been levelled," said  Sandy Duncan, vice-president of Xbox Europe. Prices  have also been cut in Japan and Australia, sparking  speculation that the US will follow suit.The group reported weaker than hoped for sales of  $7.25bn (5bn) in the third quarter, up from $6.4bn in  the same period last year. Income rose from $2.45bn  to $2.74bn. The group's full year ends in June.The profits will also be held back in the coming year by  increased investments to diversify the business.Microsoft has agreed to compensate gamers who paid  the full price for an Xbox with a reward pack worth 115  including two games and a controller.
It's Thursday, so Guardian Online isonline.
IBM,. the world's biggest computer company, warned that its quarterly results were not going to be a pretty sight, and it was right. Profits slumped by almost a third to $1.2 billion, while revenues tumbled 12% to only $18.6 billion.Hardware sales fell another 25% to $6.4 billion.
Apple has just reportedencouraging financial resultsthanks to good sales of the new flat-screen "lamp-Mac". Profits were down slightly (from $43 million to $40 million) on quarterly turnover that was up slightly (from $1.43 billion to $1.5 billion). Apple also plans to open more shops, so fans will be able to get Apple's proprietary hardware running Apple's proprietary software and Apple's set of bundled applications from Apple stores.
Bad news for Microsoft but it may be good news for consumers: the company hasslashed the price of the Xboxbefore the Nintendo Gamecube launch. This must lead everyone to assume that European sales have gone badly outside the UK. The Xbox was probably already cheaper than a Sony PlayStation 2, given that the PS2 does not have a hard drive or communications built in.
