Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Sony executives today apologised for the global recall of potentially faulty PC batteries but said no heads would roll over the fiasco, the latest in a series of glitches to have tarnished the electronic giant's reputation. The firm said its chief executive, Sir Howard Stringer, and president, Ryoji Chubachi, would make completing the recall their top priority as it approaches the all-important Christmas shopping season."We would like to take this opportunity to apologize for the worries," Yutaka Nakagawa, Sony's corporate executive officer, told a news conference.Mr Nakagawa and two other Sony executives then bowed slightly, but stayed in their seats. The gesture contrasted with the usual practice among senior figures from troubled Japanese companies, who stand and offer deep bows of contrition. Some have even been known to sob as they do so.Sony said it had carried out improvements in the production, design and inspection of the lithium-ion batteries and that there was no risk of further trouble.The recall, which affects about 9.6m batteries worldwide, began in August after they were found to be at minor risk of overheating and even catching fire.Of the total, Sony is offering to replace 3.5m battery packs for PCs made by Toshiba, Fujitsu, Sharp, Hitachi and Gateway, as well as those for its own line of Vaio laptops.Dell, Apple and Lenovo had earlier recalled 6.1m batteries but Sony declined to say how many it would be able to replace alone.Sony executives said they had no plans to withdraw from the battery business. "The battery operation is a very important business for us. We have no intention of quitting it or scaling it down," Mr Nakagawa said.But he added that the firm might have to ask other manufacturers to supply replacement batteries, as it did not have the capacity to supply all 9.6m on its own. "There is a possibility that some of the orders from PC makers may not come back to us," he said.Naofumi Hara, head of Sony's corporate communications, stressed that the recall was designed to put consumers' minds at rest. "This is not a safety issue," he said. "This is about addressing a people's concerns which have become a social problem, and we made the managerial decision that the recall was necessary."The extent of the recall continued to grow however, and Sony faces a potential damages claim from Toshiba and two other Japanese PC makers. Toshiba, the world's third-biggest laptop maker, today raised the number of batteries it was asking customers to return from 830,000 to 870,000; overnight the US Consumer Product Safety Commission issued a recall notice for a further 340,000 laptop batteries.The US PC maker Gateway said today it would recall about 35,000 Sony-made lithium-ion batteries, although it stressed it had not identified any problems with its PCs.In addition Sony expanded the recall of batteries included in its own line of Vaio laptop PCs from 90,000 in Japan and China to 250,000 worldwide.Last week Sony was forced to lower its full-year operating profit forecast by 62%, blaming the additional costs on the recall and the decision to cut the price of its PlayStation 3 game console in Japan by about 20%.The firm has set aside 51bn yen (&#163;231m) to pay for the recall, although any further significant recalls could push the figure higher.
I notice that McAfee continues to issue misleading statements, to the point where you have to wonder whether the company is doing it deliberately, rather than simply not having a clue.In this morning's whinge, for example, it's complaining about PatchGuard, which is Microsoft's sensible (though not impregnable) attempt to lock down the operating system kernel. McAfee says:For years, independent security developers have partnered with Microsoft to ensure that customers have the safest computing environment. However, all that seems to have changed with Vista, because Microsoft is denying computer security companies access to Vista's underlying technology.But this is misleading rubbish. In fact, nothing has changed with Vista. First, PatchGuard has been in 64-bit Windows XP for about two years. Second, PatchGuard isnotin 32-bit Vista, and 32-bit Windows is currently more than 95% of the market.In any case, McAfee is overhyping the effect to a ridiculous extent because kernel access is irrelevant to most malware detection, and only applies to a subset of the market, mostly concerned with malware behaviour detection and blocking.It's also ludicrously misleading to imply that Microsoft isnotstill working with security vendors, if that's what the statement seeks to do. Microsoft's security unit devotes a lot of resources to working with third parties, including McAfee.McAfee seems to be playing to the European Commission, as a way to put pressure on Microsoft by presenting Vista as a threat when, from a kernel access point of view, Vista is exactly the same as XP.McAfee's statements will no doubt be repeated verbatim by a technologically clueless mass media, and technologically clueless MEPs will presumably be impressed. McAfee -- which makes its money from Windows being insecure -- might well, in the long run, profit. But is this really the best way to protect Windows users from malware?
As lovely as the original but with the considerable bonus of being based on decent films, Lego Star Wars 2 was a treat. Jonathan Smith, Creative Director at developers Travellers Tales talks fanboys, favourite films and why online didn't happen.Did the success of the original game surprise you?We were certainly surprised by the success of the original LEGO Star Wars. We knew we had a game which we loved ourselves, but we had no idea at all how it would be received by our potential audience. We were doing something new for LEGO, and new for Star Wars, at the same time as the official Star Wars Episode III movie game was launching - it was certainly a gamble. And we were so delighted when it turned out that lots and lots of people, of all ages, enjoyed playing the game as much as we did.Did you feel more pressure with LSW2?In some ways, yes, there was more pressure with LSW2. We were confident we'd be able to please fans of the original game; but we very much wanted to raise the bar second time around. The trade had high expectations, based on the success of the first game. But we lacked the surrounding brouhaha of a new Star Wars movie, which brought us some attention with our Episode III content - so we knew we'd have to work hard to take the game content up a level. We wanted to respond in detail to everyone's comments on the first game, too. Luckily, I think we've managed to do all that successfully!Do you think you got the balance right between making the game accessible to both 6 year old and 30-somethings?We were really focussed, in both the original game and the new sequel, on the younger audience. We felt, and still feel, that this is a hungry and demanding but under-served category of gamers. I also still very much believe that, where we can please younger players, we inevitably make a game that's better for older players too. And we of course played the game all the time throughout development, as older gamers, and naturally made a game which we loved to play ourselves. Looking at the end result... yes, I think we can feel pretty proud of that balance.How important was it to appeal to the 30-something nostalgia market?We've had a bigger commercial success in that area than we'd planned for, certainly - so it's been important from that point of view. But it was never something we consciously identified as an opportunity, or strived for. The effort to make a game that we ourselves found funny, which matched our expectations as Star Wars fans whose imaginations were shaped so strongly by those original movies, was entirely and naturally bound up in all our work, all along, from the very initial concept.Did the greater pop-culture appeal of the original films, compared to the last 3, make it harder to design LSW2? Were you worried about criticism from more "committed" Star Wars fans?Dealing with Original Trilogy content was a complete joy for us. And no, we didn't fear fan criticism at all - because our "LEGO-ness" gave us such brilliant licence to play with expectations in our own way.Star Wars games have traditionally been very serious - how did you guys persuade LucasArts to let you take a lighter look at the franchise?The Lucasfilm organisation has endorsed many different interpretations of the Star Wars universe over the years. They've been working with these characters for 25 years now; it's their job, day-in, day-out, to live in that Star Wars world. Although we were nervous in the original approach; looking back, I think it's entirely natural that they were energised by a fresh perspective on that material. In this case, we were at a huge advantage with the success of the LEGO building sets and characters, first launched in 1999. That had already established the principle that a LEGO Star Wars universe played by unique rules. We're all massive Star Wars fans, and all the work we do is consistent within an authentic LEGO Star Wars universe.Which of the three films - Star Wars, Empire, Return of the Jedi - offered the richest source material for levels in LSW 2?That's not an easy question; there was so much to work with in all of them. Looking back at the levels we chose to build, though, I think it's probably the original Star Wars: A New Hope which has given us the greatest variety of locations, gameplay and characters. From the Blockade Runner to Tatooine; Mos Eisley, the Death Star, and of course the final Trench run.Why was there no online for Xbox 360?LEGO Star Wars was always conceived at core as a 2-player co-operative game. The fun of that experience, with two people playing together, talking together, fooling around and fighting together, was probably our greatest achievement. As gamers, we play online multi-player games, of course; but we felt that our "offline" co-op mode was really distinctive - so that's where we continued to put our focus. We were generally wary of introducing young players to an online environment, too - for safety and security reasons. Ultimately, it's turned out that the 360 Live environment is more seamlessly a part of the 360 experience then we'd expected; so this is of course an area we'll look at again for the future.After the success of LSW do you think there will be more "mashup" style games featuring different properties?The game industry works in such a way that the commercial success of LEGO Star Wars and LSWII will of course incite new conversations within publishing and licensing companies. And if any of those conversations yield fun games, then that's great. For ourselves, we're definitely planning to produce more LEGO games - we have a new title in development right now, in fact, which gives a LEGO treatment to another new world of brilliant characters and stories. Hope you like it!
I've just noticed a press release which arrived today from Sonos, which says that: "Due to recent developments at the BBC, Sonos (www.uk.sonos.com), the provider of wireless music systems for the digital home, now has access to many key BBC radio stations."How so? It says:The BBC has recently taken the decision to move all of its digital audio content to WMA format (Windows Media Audio.) This allows all Sonos owners to able to stream BBC radio stations across their Sonos music systems.Comment: I'm not sure what this means, since I can already listen to a dozen BBC radio stations (BBC Asian Network, BBC Radio 1, 1Xtra, Radio 2, Radio 3, Radio 4 (Digital), Radio 4 (LW), Five Live, Five Live Sports Extra, BBC 6 Music, BBC 7 and BBC World Service) using only Windows Media Player. If a Roku Soundbridge could make use of these WMA streams last year, why couldn't Sonos?Otherwise, I can understand why the BBC wants to get away from Real Media, but there's no obvious reason why it couldn't move to AAC+. Digital Radio Mondiale (DRM) already uses AAC for music broadcasting, and I expect DAB (Digital Audio Broadcasting) to go the same way next week -- though this might be embarassing for the BBC, which is still flogging a 1995-vintage DAB based on MP2.Users can listen to AAC+ via Winamp or the VLC media player, for example, or use theOrban plug-inwith Windows Media Player.
If you were guilty of uploading copyright material to YouTube, you could get sued. Marketwatch reports thatVideo site helped Paramount Pictures track down and sue filmmaker. The story says:On May 24, lawyers for Viacom Inc.'s Paramount Pictures convinced a federal judge in San Francisco to issue a subpoena requiring YouTube to turn over details about a user who uploaded dialog from the movie studio's "Twin Towers," according to a copy of the document.YouTube promptly handed over the data to Paramount, which on June 16 sued the creator of the 12-minute clip, New York City-based filmmaker Chris Moukarbel, for copyright infringement, in federal court in Washington.That YouTube chose to turn over the data, rather than simply remove the offending video from its site -- as it did Friday when it agreed to take down 30,000 videos at the request of a group of Japanese media companies -- came as a surprise to copyright experts."YouTube seems to have given up too easily," said Laurence P. Colton, an intellectual-property lawyer at the firm of Powell &amp; Goldstein LLP in Atlanta.This is, of course, just the highlight of a long story: there's more.
Severalnewssourceshave reported that Sony is delaying the release of its BDP-S1 Blu-ray player - for the third time. Originally due for launch almost six months ago, the benchmark player will now hit the shelves in December -afterthe US and Japan launch of PS3. It seems Sony may be stockpiling Blu-ray components for its next-gen games machine at the expense of other hardware.Although other manufacturers of Blu-ray productshavemade it to market, Sony is the guiding force behind the HD standard. The company's problems with its own format probably haven't earned it many points in the war with HD DVD.
This is a little bit late, but did anyone else watch the coverage of the videogame BAFTAs on Saturday morning? If so, didyoufind it toe-curlingly embarrassing? From Vernon Kaye's pitiful presenting (so lifeless and half-hearted it could have been faxed in from the other side of the planet), to the post-award interviews with developers whose painful self-consciousness made Rainman look like a drunken drama student, it was a sobering reposte to those who feel videogames really have made it into mainstream culture.As for the award-presenters, I don't know which ones were worse - those who clearly knew nothing about games, cared nothing about games, but swallowed their pride and took the cash anyway, or those who felt they had to show solidarity with the videogame industry - 'yeah, I play Ghost Metal Recon! It rocks!'I switched off after 15 minutes. Anyone else get through the whole thing?
Online gaming is genuinely great, no really it is. When you get used to playing against opponents from around the world while slumped on the sofa it's hard to go back to the seemingly hollow world of offline play. Throw in digital distribution and you can see why Sony and Microsoft, and to a lesser extent, Nintendo place such importance on their online strategy. Their recent squabbling only underlines the point. Xbox Live group marketing manager Aaron Greenberg has dismissed the PlayStation 3's online service as, "yet another knockoff". While Sony themselves have spread false rumours that Nintendo's service will only be free for 6 months.All this willy-waving is to be expected of course, but maybe some perspective is needed. Yes online gaming is hugely important but for the majority of console gamers it still isn't an issue. Around 40% of Xbox 360 owners don't play online and that's on a console where online is integral - the figures are likely to be far lower for the more mainstream PS3 and Wii. So yes, online console gaming is the future but it will remain a minority pursuit for a few years yet.
Steve Wozniak, cofounder of Apple Computer, is interviewed by Robert Scoble on video atBlip.tv. After apologising for the sound quality,Scoble says:I just put my interview with Steve Wozniak, co-founder of Apple Computer, that I did on stage in front of an audience (that gave Steve a standing ovation at the end). In an hour you'll hear about a wide range of early Apple history, among other things that interest Woz, like playing Tetris and his music festivals (he's doing another one). Pranks. Hacking. I mention Phillip Torrone and his TV jammer. Shyness. Building video games. First argument with Steve Jobs. And tons more. You probably have heard lots of these stories, but he tells a few new ones and it was fun. People afterward told me they wished he could go on for a few more hours.I put this up on Blip.TV to test the video quality and uploading capabilities.The site is streaming away, but QuickTime on my Windows XP machine says it can't play the clip without a component that isn't available on the QuickTime server..... So if that's a test, it failed.
The start of the week...
You can nowvote for your favourite video blogger in the Vloggies, and there are plenty of categories to choose from.Best Vlog Best Male Vlogger Best Female Vlogger Best Group Vlog Corporate/Organisation Vlog Comedy Videoblog Community Videoblog Instructional/Educational Vlogs Entertainment (Fiction) Videoblog Entertainment (Non-Fiction) Videoblog Experimental Videoblog Inspirational, Religious, Spiritual Videoblog Kids &amp; Teens Videoblog Cooking Vlogs Green Vlogs News Videoblog Personal Diary Videoblog Political Videoblog Tech Videoblog Travel Videoblog Viral Video Funniest Video Collaboration Documentary video Editing in a Video Experimental Video Interview Original Music Special Effects Most Controversial Video Vlogging Books Video Hosting Provider Online Video Production Tool Vlog Directory Vlog Website DesignEven if you don't plan to vote, it's an interesting look at what's available now and has some level of recognition. Pity it's all on one long page....
You'll recall that Dell's customer service problems first came properly to the notice of the blogerati when Jeff Jarvis started havingtrouble with them(and they with him.) [I myself wrote a couple of pieces for The Register, when freelance, about how Dell hadzapped forumson its own sitewhere customers could help each other, in the absence or frustratingly bad existence, of customer service.]And now we may have reached some sort of tipping point. Paul Thurrott, if you haven't heard of him, is a longtime user and tester of Windows systems (and more latterly Apple stuff too). He runs theWinsupersiteum, site, and alsoConnected Home. He's bought a lot of Dell machines in his time. So the other day hetried to buy a new Dell. And descended into Dell hellThe shipping details were wrong, and when he tried to change them, they didn't change, and then the order got cancelled.Here's the thing, and I asked Dell about this: If the credit card wasn't working, why didn't they contact me? Didn't they want the sale? And why did I have to do so much legwork during this entire thing? As my wife noted, if this is the level of support they supply during a sale, imagine how bad it gets after you get the system.So what did he do instead? Heordered an HP Pavilion. No surprise that HP has overtaken Dell in PC sales for the first time in ages.One point: in the post, Thurrott saysAll the stories you've heard about Indian outsourcing are true, by the way.Here's the thing about "Indian outsourcing": if the systems they've been given can't cope with the task, that isnot their fault. The implicit racism in so many pieces about outsourcing is both exhausting and infuriating. Dealing with people who are often angry for no fault of your own, trying to make out words said over a VOIP line whose quality is limited by how much the outsourcing company wants to pay, and trying to procure useful answers and actions from a system that's not been properly written... is not the fault of the person answering the phone. Don't take out your bile on them. Pour it on the company that's chosen to downgrade your service. It's not "Indian outsourcing" that's the problem; it'slow-costoutsourcing, done with an ever-falling budget in mind.Quite probably the people answering the phones are smarter than those calling on them. But without the tools for the job, they're as stymied as you to get anything done.
Robots-Dreams reportsfrom the All Japan PlaModel/RadiCon Show in Chiba with some great footage of the new RB-2000 series from JR Robotics. It says:The demonstrations that they specifically put together to show off the new robots, include doing gymnastics on a bar -- pull-ups and giant spins. Unfortunately, since the robot doesn't have any hands, the bar was passed through openings in the robots arms -- so it's impossible to fall off. It does, however, demonstrate the considerable torque available from the JR servos used in the arms.The gymnastics sequence starts about 40 seconds into the YouTube video.
Brian Barton, former editor of a UCSD student paper,The Koala, was the youngest candidate to run for Congress in the last elections, andhis site said:However, Bryan Barton isn't only the youngest candidate, he is the most real candidate. In fact, Bryan Barton is documenting the process of running for congress on video for a reality television show tentatively titled Vote Barton. While candidates running for political office are always looking out for their image, hiding behind their "official" representatives, and ducking public criticism, Bryan Barton is not afraid of the fact that he is a real person.The "show" has just gone online atVisflix. The first episode is a campaign commercial; the second is actually informative, though only of real interest to Americans.Don't look here(precincts reporting as of Jul 14, 2006) unless you want to know the result.
A first watch used to be a rite of passage, but anybody whose wrist is no longer encumbered by one soon discovers that their instinct for the time is uncannily accurate. Come those moments when a little more precision is needed, however, it has become increasingly awkward to ask somebody on the street for the time. Instead of a smile and glance at the wrist, there is a struggle with a tight pocket, or a rummage in a rucksack. All this is a prelude to adjusting a mobile and the fine-tuned announcement, "It's 15.51", rather than "It's just gone 10 to three". In effect, shrinking mobiles mean that watches have grown. The revival of the fob-pocket and chain cannot be far off.A stroll along the East Sussex seafront reveals that over 40% of people use a mobile to tell the time. Where, though, is the watch industry's anguish? The official statistics bear out my street research. Sales of cheapo watches have fallen since 2002, but sales of high-ticket items have risen, creating a veritable atmosphere of chronoporn. As GQ's Charlie Porter remarks, such firms as Armani have moved their business upwards from mid-price watches, and in the current "self-gifting" world, a man who feels the urge to reward himself seems to prefer one smart item to a clutter of cheaper consumables. Five thousand pounds might buy a lot of CDs, but a watch is a clearer symbol of success. James Bond is the role model here: Daniel Craig will sport an Omega Seamaster 300M in Casino Royale.Such chic resurgence, ironically, owes something to the disposable watch. Two decades ago, with the arrival of the computer chip, the Swiss industry faced a crisis. It was the cheap watch that pulled it through in the interim, allowing Swatch to buy up and sustain many traditional brands - the sort with mechanisms similar to those that deafened Lilliput's small inhabitants when they encountered Gulliver and his colossal watch. It "made an incessant noise like that of a water-mill ... we conjecture that it is the God that he worships ... because he assured us that he seldom did anything without consulting it. He called it his Oracle, and said it pointed out the time for every action of his life".In this life, nothing is cut and dried. A high-flying businessman should not offend the Lilliputians around him. It is ostentatious during a meeting to glance at a watch, especially a Seamaster 300M, but good manners to turn off a mobile on the desk. More important than any call, it still tells the time.
Vietnam is controlling the use of the internet by encouraging providers and users to spy on each other and turn informant if they suspect politically 'subversive' activity, according to a report today by Amnesty International.The communist regime has harassed, detained and imprisoned its citizens for expressing peaceful political views online, leading to widespread self-censorship among the Vietnamese. Owners of the country's hugely popular internet cafes have been described by the organisation Reporters Without Borders as 'police auxiliaries'.The report comes before a petition calling for an end to internet repression and signed by 42,000 supporters of Amnesty and The Observer'sIrrepressible.infocampaign, is presented to the UN's Internet Governance Forum in Athens next week.Internet service providers in Vietnam are required to inform on web users; internet cafe owners are required to inform on customers; and web users are required to inform on sites that oppose the state. Laws ban web users from spreading information that causes 'harm to national security or social order'.While the Vietnamese government claims that filtering is for the protection of web users from pornography, a recent OpenNet Initiative study found little filtering of such material. Instead blocked sites are those referring to known dissidents or mentioning democracyand human rights.Cong Thanh Do, who uses the internet to promote democracy in Vietnam, was arrested on 14 August, accused of attempting to 'implement a terrorist plot to destroy the US General Consulate in Ho Chi Minh City'.He spent 38 days in solitary confinement in a cramped cell, maintaining a hunger strike for the entire period. American officials said there was no evidence to support the allegation and he was released. Amnesty believes that the arrest of the 47-year-old - who lives in America and travelled to Vietnam regularly but is now barred - was aimed solely at punishing him for expressing his political views.Cong Thanh Do said: 'There are internet police who can hack into your email account and read everything. That's what happened to me. I think they really wanted to put me in jail for a long time to destroy my group, the People's Democratic party, so they accused me of being a terrorist.' He added that six members of the party are still in prison.
Ze Frank recently tried using Google Checkout to raise funds for his superbvideo show, and the deal is that you cansponsor an on-screen rubber duckiefor anything up to $50.On his Friday show,as transcribed by Inside Google, he reports:Google Checkout, that amazing platform that doesn't support Canada, has determined it doesn't support donation sites.Recently strapped with YouTube, Google seems to have a problem with videoblogs that can actually generate revenue.Way to move the internet forward, jackass.I guess micro-duckie sponsorship is just gonna to have to use PayPal.Apart from being a PR disaster for Google, this is such an amazingly dumb move that it will probably be reversed, once Google Checkout locates someone with a brain. You're not making a donation, you're buying an electronic good: it's fundamentally an advert, even if you only use it to say Happy Birthday, Laura! As Inside Google says: "Bad Google Checkout, bad."Update:According to Scoble, Google has now turned ze Frank's Google Checkout back on. That was quick!
I keep meaning to produce some linkbait, and a list of great computer flops might work. Well, it appears to be working for the Real World blog with10 Biggest Computer Flops of all time.This is probably not the worst top 10 of its kind. However, it does include some things that didn't flop at all (CP/M, Windows Me) while not mentioning mention Windows 1.0 or 2.0, and the list also misses a long string of hardware flops.For example: 3DO, Amstrad PenPad, Apple Cube, Apple Pippin, Atari Falcon, Be BeBox, Coleco Adam, Commodore CD32, Commodore Plus 4, DEC Rainbow, Elan/Flan Enterprise, Go, Netpliance i-Opener, Oracle's Network Computer, Osborne Executive, Philips CDi, Sinclair QL... There are probably a few dozen more, including some from Acorn and Psion that a US user might well miss.Of course, it's not obvious how you measure a flop, but I think it's something to do with the discrepancy between the size of the launch and the intensity of the marketing hype and the resulting sales. That's what makes the Apple Newton and IBM PCjr into classic big-time flops. Even though they probably outsold many other failed products, they never came anywhere near the overinflated expections.
How can I stop RealPlayer being my default media player and make Windows Media Player play audio files instead? Joshua GoodwinIf Windows XP is up to date, go to Start and select Set Program Access and Defaults, then click the Custom button. The down-chevron gives the option to choose a default media player. Also, open WMP, select Tools and then Options. Go to the tab marked File Types and tick the ones you want WMP to play by default, such as MP3. Microsoft has a help file at tinyurl.com/uyybl.2006-10-19 12:08:31
Better late than never dept: Google made a fuss aboutInternet Explorer 7's search feature, so Danny Sullivan at Search Engine Watch has had a look to see how fairly it works. He also has a look at the Google and Yahoo toolbars, which the companies use to promote their own search engines.
To see all the past week's posts in one page, clickhereHighlights include:iPod killers for Christmas 2006Daily Mail unveils unbelievable 360-degree head mounted displayVirtual economies attract real-world tax attentionRecord industry offensive hits 8,000 filesharersStraight dope on the birth of the IPodDNA logic points way for computersClosed systems leave song buyers out in the coldVideo bloggers under threat from EU broadcast rulesGet yer malware - with fries, or on your new video iPodApple reports record revenues (again) - but is it enough?A sexy search engine, sort ofgamesindustry.biz suggests boycotting CurrysThe time capsule, after 10 x 10
Ministers are backing, in principle, plans to impose controls on the YouTube website to try to end the broadcasting of indiscriminate violence.Jack Straw, the former home secretary and current leader of the Commons, said he supported such controls. "There is a very serious issue how such videos should better be controlled," he said.Mr Straw raised the issue in the Commons on Thursday after Iain Wright, Labour MP for Hartlepool, said he was concerned about a posting from his constituency showing a man being kicked unconscious. The posting, entitled Milton Road Fight Club, shows a man being kicked in the street. Mr Wright said he was "worried that acts of violence and instances of happy-slapping recorded on mobile phones are being transferred to the web for wider consumption".The issue is likely to be raised when MPs debate the violent crime reduction bill next week, but it is unlikely an amendment on such a complex area of broadcasting freedom could be put together in an acceptable form over the weekend.There has been a stream of complaints that children are just a click away from being able to see unacceptable acts of violence on YouTube.Teachers are also demanding action, claiming that children are using the site to bully other children as well as to humiliate teachers.The YouTube website states: "YouTube doesn't allow videos with nudity, graphic violence or hate." It asks users to flag unsuitable videos as "inappropriate".
"In the first major mass removal of content in its history, YouTube has removed nearly 30,000 videos after being contacted by a number of Japanese rights-holders, according to the Japan Society for Rights of Authors, Composers and Publishers (JASRAC). The group says that its members found 29,549 videos on YouTube that contain unauthorized materials taken from Japanese sources, including movies, music videos, and television. Japanese broadcast giant NHK was among those seeking the removal of materials," reportsArs Technica.Comment: Quite how much has been removed so far, if anything, is an interesting question, becausesearches like thisand eventhisstill seem to work OK. But presumably all the Japanese stuff will all be removed eventually, making YouTube far less interesting than it is today.
MondayOnline offlineNews agencies dip toes into Second LifeWii was robbedTuesdayWanna be a game designer? Get reading!Zelda choiceNew videogame booksWednesdayCapcom mobile titlesMacArthur Foundation series on digital media and learningPro Evolution Soccer 6 first impressionsGame idol at GameCityMore Ebay fun with Christmas consolesThursdayArab and Muslim representations in gamesReviews and stuffDSG group refuses to be bulliedFridayPES 6 onlineXbox 360 gets killer app for JapanWhat's in a gameStudios pull plug on Halo movie
Philips would say so. Their 103" plasma screen is apparently the world's biggest (though I think I've seen a Panasonic that's the same size).And even if it's the biggest today... what about the next one, which will come along at x+1".Is there any point in these stupendous sizes, or is it just a bit of willy waving?
Variety isreportingthat Fox and Universal have pulled out as financial backers of the live-action Halo movie. Spiralling costs and worries over the inexperienced director Neill Blomkamp are cited, but there are also suggestions that the two studios 'played hardball' with the filmmakers and Microsoft in an unsuccessful attempt to get them to reduce their profit participation.Before fans of videogame movie adaptations fall to their knees screaming 'Nooooooooo!' at an essentially unjust and uncaring universe, Microsoft is apparently confident of securing alternative backing for the endeavour. And with fantasy movie behemoth Peter Jackson onboard that confidence is probably well-founded.
A game by any other name would be... Who knows? But in recent months, I've been challenged - through work and my own occasional dips into deep thought - to consider what exactly I should cover when it comes to games. There are thinkers greater than I engaged in some interesting (but often navel-gazing) debates on the subject (for example, the ongoing discussions betweennarratologists and ludologists), but I'd like to expand the notion beyond the restrictive boundaries of the traditional electronic computer game genre to include "games" which occur without thespoonof formal structure. In other words, I'd like to explore the much more fluid notion of playful activity which emerges from computer-mediated or technologically-enhanced interactivityin general, rather than gameplay in particular.On Monday, someone asked me to explain what it was about the social virtual worldSecond Lifewhich compelled me. Many of the comments complained that the application wasn't a game, that it wasn't (as CommanderKeen said), "more entertaining than commiting (sic) horrendous acts of thermonuclear mass murder that I've been doing for the last hour in Defcon". I'll explain it here, within the context of this entry. (And thanks Ace for stepping in my absence!)Second Life is not a game, and therefore there can be no comparison with electronic spaces which feature high-action and/or designer-led objectives. It's asocial virtual world(as explained by the eminent Betsy Book). Like, as has oft been said, the web in 3D.While you can't playit, you can playwithin it. Like Katie Salen and Eric Zimmerman explain inRules of Play(andblackbelt jonesexplained to me), and I tried to explain inan earlier post, interactivity can be compelling because it offers a playful space in which to do some neat things. In GTA, you can do the formal activities implemented by the development team, or you can play around in their world. If this informal play was in another application - a piece of social software, for example - would it be inappropriate to cover it here?In Second Life, to continue with the example, once you come to grips with the GUI it becomes a tool with which to develop user-generated content, to collaborate and to network. In many ways, this makes it more difficult to enjoy in a traditional entertainment sense because the onus is on the user to generate the fun (if appropriate). Playfulness is not the primary objective, but it emerges from the social interaction. For that matter, social networking sites like MySpace, Bebo and others are playful in the same way collecting Pokemon and baseball cards are - the game is in collecting friends. Perhaps that's why there are proportionately more women involved in Second Life and social networking than there are, as a general rule, in other (formal) gameplay activities. (To pre-empt the inevitable gender-based comments, The Sims is a game, yes, but that's ONE game in the thousands that have been released over time. A new Sims game would still be very different from the experience of using Second Life because it is A Game - it has objectives, goals, things you NEED to do. There's none of that in Second Life. You don't NEED to do anything, except maybe stay in touch with your friendsifthat's what you're using it for.)Another reason Second Life is a compelling playful experience is because it is all about personalisation - from the moment you generate your avatar to the day you build your in-world opus. I havea social science research libraryin there (next door to Ace's recreation of a 1930's era house) which is open to the public. It's like a 3D webpage of my interests. I created it and I own it. While it's not the world's greatest building, I'm still proud of it and I feel it serves a purpose in the virtual world. I played around with the tools provided and exercised my playful muscles in designing it. People have wandered by to see it and have played around with what's inside. I have not provided any goals, but people have explored, spent time and mucked about. I also have aFlickraccount, adel.icio.us pageand aMySpace presence. Similar things happen there. That kind of play is as interesting as that found in a formal game, and thus such activities - regardless of whether they're in a formal game or not - have a home here.Other Second Life Residents create items to sell (the oft-reported business applications of the space), toys to play with, experiences and simulations (the UCDavisVirtual Hallucinationsbuilding, for example). There are games in this virtual world which you can play, but they're user-generated because the users have decided that they want to create them, and so they have.It's also a great platform for social interaction, learning and experimentation. Which are all about play.Perhaps including Second Life, MySpace, the blogosphere, Alternate Reality Games, social networking apps, music generators, peer-to-peer networks and other non-game applications on a gamesblog (within the limited definition that we have chosen thus far of what a "game" is) could cause some confusion, and might frame them incorrectly for potential users. But if you go into them and play around until you find something you like or think of the possibilities they could be used for, you'll probably have a good time. I'm not guaranteeing it, but you might.For me, social software often fits the bill more so than goal-directed environments in which I have to shoot things (badly), solve puzzles (incorrectly) or collect items I don't care about (slowly). Yet in these environments there is play. Even if the play is not formal, there are playful experiences. And so I think they deserve as much time on here as the latest chart toppers.Any thoughts?
Xbox watchers in the west are reporting that special Japan-only bundle packs of Xbox 360 consoles and copies of much-anticipated RPGBlue Dragonhave sold out on pre-order in a matter of minutes - way ahead of the package's official release date of December 7. According toMagic Box, Hirokazu Hamamura, president of influential videogame magazine, Weekly Famitsu, predicts that Japanese sales of Microsoft's previously ignored machine will reach 250,000 units by the end of 2006, with a huge leap in interest encouraged by the epic role-playing title. Well, it's a start.Blue Dragon, of course, has serious credentials. Developer Mistwalker was founded by Hironobu Sakaguchi, the original developer of Final Fantasy. The game also features music by Final Fantasy composer, Nobuo Uematsu.They're calling it Japan's Halo.
Most people have played a board game in which they were, essentially, orchestrating the demolition of civilisations and the slaughter of millions. Risk, Diplomacy, any one of the hundreds of games in which cardboard military units engage upon hexagonally gridded battlefields, all present death and destruction as family entertainment. This point has languished unappreciated in some pre-release coverage of a new pastime designed for our era. War on Terror: the Boardgame was described by a headline in the Sun as a "Sick 7/7 Terror Game", though the game contains no reference to last July's London massacre, or indeed to any specific terrorist incident. The game's designers, Cambridge-based partnership TerrorBull, have been banned from toy fairs, and lost nervous business partners (these travails are chronicled on a blog atwaronterrortheboardgame.com)."We knew it would be controversial," says Andrew Sheerin, one of the game's two designers, "and that's part of the reason we made it- it's a taboo subject we wanted to break open. But if you remove any educational or satirical intent, it's just a war game, like battleships or Risk. On many levels, we can't understand the insane reaction it has caused."Sheerin and his partner in Terrorbull, 31-year-old Andy Tompkins, began plotting the game more than three years ago. "We were watching Newsnight as the war in Iraq started," he recalls, "and couldn't believe we were going to war on such spurious evidence. Then we realised it had all the ingredients for a board game - friends turning into enemies, enemies into friends, lies, secret deals, hidden motives, conflicting interests. As soon as we thought of the 'axis of evil' being a spinner in the middle of the board, that was enough to keep us going."The game is one of conquest - building an empire, acquiring resources and crushing opposition. The contemporary twist is that, as well as launching traditional wars, players can sponsor terrorists to plague their enemies - although, in the game, as in life, the terrorists can develop an ungovernable momentum of their own (an option exists for players to start running a global terrorism network, instead of stewarding their legitimate fiefdoms). It seems odd, though, that the only motivation assumed of any parties is expansion and wealth: War On Terror is punctiliously, even obtusely, politically correct in refusing to consider religion a factor."There's a trap we wanted to avoid," says Sheerin, "which is furthering preconceptions of what terrorism is right now. For most people, terrorism is fundamentalist Islam. The only self-policing we did was that at one point there was a Global Jihad card, but that gave the impression that all terrorism is a religious or Islamic problem."The card in question was recast as an Insurgency Emergency card. This seems a little pusillanimous, verging on implying moral equivalency between combatants. "I don't think we are," says Sheerin. "It's a ridiculous, insane game, but when a lot of people look at the world, that's what they see. There are many things wrong with the way things are done in the world today. I guess you could argue that a board game isn't going to change that, but it's less black and white than most coverage of the topic."
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Sony is trying to fight off perceptions that the PlayStation 3 is too expensive, but it seems its line is no longer to tell users to work harder and save up for one.Engadgetreports that Sony now has aconsole comparison documentthat makes false price claims. It says:First up, were you aware that to use your Xbox 360 Core system you're required to buy the 20GB drive add-on, an HD DVD drive, a wireless controller, and an Xbox Live sub? We weren't either. But hey, it says right there, "requires users to buy" and this is, in fact, a "fact sheet." Of course, none of that's actually true, and what's more, were one to use the Xbox 360 Premium console pack in that chart instead of the Core pack, the total would be $399 for a console with that very same hard drive, wireless controller, and Xbox Live Silver subscription (which provides access to everything but multiplayer) -- remember, kids, an HD DVD drive is not required to do anything but watch high def movies -- it has nothing to do with high def gaming. We hear Microsoft ain't too happy about this chart either and is preparing certain legal action, namely because it could be misleading to otherwise unwitting retail employees selling customers game consoles this holiday season. Go figure.
As of yesterday I was the 4th best Pro Evolution Soccer 6 player in the world. Yup, I'm officially great. Or maybe not. The game hasn't been released yet so there were only 30 people in the rankings, but I'll take the glory while I can. By the evening of release day - Friday 27th October - I fully expect to be back down in the thousands again. Perhaps more interesting though was the actual online experience. All the games I played were essentially lag free and a big improvement on the initial PES5 online experience. Sadly the rest of the experience - setting up games, inviting friends etc - was disappointingly rudimentary. Unless I was missing something there didn't even seem to be an option to replay an opponent straight after a game other than going back to the "top menu" - or "main menu" in non-Konami English - and creating a new match. Hmm. Maybe we'll have to wait for PES7 before we get the co-op, leagues and other stuff that we've come to expect from online gaming in 2006.
Jonathan Harris has produced astream of creative digital works, with 2004's10 x 10being a personal favourite and also one that reached a wide audience.Harris's latest work isTime Capsule, which "sets out to collect a portrait of the world - a single global image composed of thousands of individual contributions. This time capsule is defined not by the few items a curator decides to include, but by the items submitted by every human on earth who wishes to participate. We hope to reach a truly global expression of life on earth - nuanced, diverse, beautiful and ugly, thrilling and terrifying, touching and rude, serious and absurd, frank, honest, human."When you open the Time Capsule, you see the last 100 things that have been added. They are in the form of a thread, which Harris has spun into a globe.Harris adds: "The capsule will be open until November 8th, when its contents will be handed over to the Smithsonian for safekeeping, until their unveiling in 2020."The work has been sponsored and hosted by Yahoo.
An editorial in today'sgamesindustry.bizemail newsletter runs through the responses to Rockstar's game, Canis Canem Edit (or Bully) having a swing at people who have made themselves look stupid -- the "astonishingly ignorant British MP Keith Vaz", American anti-violence campaigner Jack Thompson, the trashy Daily Star newspaper and so on.However, worst of all out of this sorry lot -- and perhaps most inexcusable of all -- is British retailer Currys, which this week took the astonishing decision to publicly refuse to stock the game, a clear bending to tabloid will in the face of perfectly clear facts about the product.But while there's not much gamers can do about various types of rentagob, the Currys group's fortunes (including Dixons and PC World -- all the same company) depend on large numbers of games-playing customers who go to its stores not just for games consoles but for hi-def TV sets, music payers, cameras, and lots of other electronics products.Wouldn't it be quite a message to send, if a significant proportion of gamers were to decide to boycott the Currys chain -- and to let them know that their appalling behaviour over Canis Canem Edit was the reason for this boycott?Comment: GI Newsletter says it puts its editorials online on Friday afternoon, so I'll add a link when I get one.
Just in case you haven't seen this, several news sites are reporting that the DSG retail group - owner of PC World, Currys and Dixons Online - will not be stocking Rockstar's forthcoming Bully game, re-titled Canis Canem Edit for Europe. The game takes place in and around the Bullworth Academy reform school where the lead character must protect himself against bullies.Although Rockstar are pushing the game as a 'brutally funny' satire rather than a violent revenge fantasy the title has attracted considerable controversy. In the US anti-videogame campaigner Jack Thompson has referred to it as 'Columbine Simulator'. Thompson filed a motion to delay the title's US release and subsequently a Florida judge demanded to be shown in-game footage so that it could be assessed for general release (morehere).Unsurprisingly, the release went ahead - sense and the American constitution winning out in the end. Indeed news sources arequickly discoveringthat the action is based more around the difficulties of everyday school life than psychotic gun violence.Back to the UK: "We're fully aware people will be able to buy this game elsewhere, but we feel this game is not appropriate for Currys' family-friendly image," explains a statement from Currys. As gamesindustry.bizand other news sources point out, however, DSG storesaretaking pre-orders on Grand Theft Auto Liberty City Stories and GTA 4. And while Liberty City Stories is an 18 certificate game, Canis Canem Edit has been passed by BBFC as a 15. Interestingly, the boardmade no cutsto the original submitted code.Here's The Sun'stakeon the story...
Ashwin Navin, chief operating officer of BitTorrent, explains why DRM is bad news, how BitTorrent will save the net from itself, and whether the peer-to-peer protocol is good or bad news for content makers.This is the full text of an interview which appeared in shortened form in today's Technology Guardian, entitled "Preparing themselves for a torrent of users".(You can also readNavin's corporate blog.)Interview conducted at Mipcom in Cannes France on 12 Oct 2006, byKate BulkleyAshwin Navinis chief operating officer of BitTorrent, the peer-to-peer protocol first developed by Bram Cohen. He is leading its move to a commercial offering.Technology Guardian:BitTorrent is considered by most content owners, including broadcasters and studios [here at the Mipcom TV market], as a scourge because it encourages the illegal sharing of content through peer-to-peer technology. How do you respond to that?Ashwin Navin:BitTorrent grew because people were using it to publish unlicensed TV shows and music and, big surprise, people like to download TV shows and movies and music, so now we've got 80 million people out there that have the software. All of these people care about content and they want to see it on their PCs and other digital platforms. The idea now is to convert this user base into paying customers. BitTorrent was never specifically designed for the purpose of stealing content but it was specifically designed to deliver content efficiently and if we can be a distributor of content using our tools we can be more efficient than all of our competitors. Hopefully that will mean more margin for the publishers and better quality for the consumer.TG:That sounds good but a lot of people would say peer-to-peer networks and content protection are oxymorons, they don't really go together.AN:That is sort of an uniformed opinion. Five years from now we will be laughing about that because every service online uses some kind of peer-to-peer delivery. As file sizes get richer and bigger, P2P is fundamentally the only way to deliver the content on the internet without breaking the internet itself. BitTorrent doesn't get in the way of content protection. It is actually a separate layer. So we need to deliver files that are copy protected and have various business models associated with them. These could be files that are purchased on an upfront payment for a perpetual license or rented for a temporary license or they could also trigger a report that someone has watched it so an advertiser can be billed. But this layer is entirely separate from the way we deliver the content.TG:This all sounds very rational and grown-up and is the future that you are trying to invent for BitTorrent but when BitTorrent was founded in 2001 by Bram Cohen it was a very different storyit was more of a Napster, I mean the original Napster, of course.AN:Actually from the day Bram founded BitTorrent it was a web-publishing tool and very controllable and distinct from other layers of service and technology that would be required to make it viable. Bram Cohen committed the grave crime of giving away this very powerful tool for free! (Laughs) Anyone would consider that a crime because he never benefited from its use. Now that we have got this large number of users on BitTorrent we think there is huge commercial value in becoming a distributor of content. Just to be clear, file sharing is one application of P2P. Napster, Grokster and KaZaa basically made a directory available to the public in exchange for everyone else's directory. BitTorrent doesn't work that way at all. BitTorrent uses P2P as a means to an end, so it is completely invisible to the user. The content is on the web and I click on it but P2P is behind the scenes. So just like Skype uses P2P behind the scenes to do VoIP, we use it behind the scenes. So there is no ability for me to search other people's hard drives with BitTorrent.TG:Let me ask you a different way: how many users are using it now and what are they doing?AN:At this moment there are probably 80 million people on line with the software and according to the MPAA it is almost 1 billion movies a day that are being downloaded. TV, software and video games are all additional.TG:So all that content is being stolen using the BitTorrent technology.AN:Yes.TG:Well, 80 million users. Sounds like a pretty big market to me. So why haven't you been bought by Google? Given the $1.6 billion Google just laid out for YouTube, they seem to like sites that have lots of traffic and usage and without a profitable business model.AN:I think as we demonstrate the commercial value of our tools that the shareholder value for us and for our investors is going to be tremendous. I think there will be a range of options for us whether it's an IPO or a buyout. We're building BitTorrent to be a standalone, successful and profitable entity.TG:You sound like the banker that you used to be! You joined BitTorrent in 2004, three years after Bram has founded the company. You essentially came into the company to create a business model, correct?AN:Well, let's just say that before I joined Bram had a phenomenally successful t-shirt company! That wasn't a bad existence for a guy with a couple of kids. He had a healthy amount of income and it took a certain amount of convincing to actually point him in the direction of a commercial entity.TG:BitTorrent was a t-shirt company?AN:The only way BitTorrent was getting money was through donations and selling t-shirts. So, if you liked BitTorrent, you could send in a donation and if you wanted a t-shirt you could buy one. Bram was earning a healthy six-figure income.TG:So how did you convince him to ditch the t-shirts?AN:He was interested in my experience at Yahoo! where web monetisation was something that we lived and breathed (Editor's note: Navin worked at Yahoo for two years prior to joining BitTorrent). I was interested in the elegance of the BitTorrent tool and the fact that it solved some problems that even Yahoo! faced. That's how I discovered BitTorrent. Yahoo was interested in digital distribution and we were always trying to figure out whether Yahoo needed to be a link aggregator like Google or if we needed to actually host the content. BitTorrent actually makes a lot of the problems that you face when you host the content irrelevant because hosting content is very expensive and when you insert BitTorrent into the equation you reduce the cost substantially.TG:Your point about cost is well taken. YouTube has all that traffic but the more traffic they get the more it costs them.AN:Exactly. It doesn't scale. People have done the math on YouTube's 100 million video downloads a day and whatever the number is, and it's a big number, it's really great news for BitTorrent because fundamentally more data being delivered from a website is good for us because we have a perfect solution to that problem.TG:The judicial system in the US has taken a rather dim view of peer-to-peer networks, in fact Grokster is out of business now. Why is BitTorrent still around?AN:Grokster was a weird decision but everyone sort of took the view that although Grokster lost it was a very ambiguous decision. It was sort of like the pornography decision. There was no mandate handed to the entertainment industry. There was no mandate handed to the technology industry. It was essentially a smell test. If your technology looks like it was designed for illegal purposes you'll be held libel for it. So it is a very ambiguous standard. It's kind of like the pornography standard, I can't define it but I know it when I see it and that is basically what the court handed down. From the beginning of BitTorrent, Bram vociferously discouraged the use of BitTorrent for piracy and warned users that they there is no anonymity; there were warnings on the site telling people who used BitTorrent to publish pirated music and other content to their websites had a big, red target on their foreheads. Now about 90% of those people have been sued. So there's a clean bill of health as far as BitTorrent is concerned.TG:So far you have fallen under the legal radar. Is it just because you haven't encouraged piracy even though you facilitate it?AN:Well I wouldn't say we have fallen under the radar. I'm sure that people have taken a pretty good look at the way our code is written and whether in our messaging we have financially benefited from piracy. And the answer is BitTorrent has never put itself in any considerable legal risk. Now that we have the goal in mind to make money the right way by licensing and selling content, I think this has been warmly welcomed by the entire industry.TG:So the plan is to license content and sell it but what about monetising the traffic you have? You already have some advertising. How is that going?AN:Advertising is not what we are hanging our hat on. BitTorrent does have a lot of traffic and we make some money from advertising but that's not where we think we'll be wildly profitable.TG:So the wildly profitable part means you need to license content and so far you've signed a licensing deal with one studio, Warner Bros. But you haven't actually started offering any paid-for content yet, why's that?AN:What we want to show the world is that BitTorrent is the most efficient way to deliver content and there are attractive legal purposes for it. The second phase beyond that is to take the core component of the BitTorrent delivery system and make it available for a fee for anyone who has a website and wants to deliver content efficiently.TG:And why is the Warner Bros deal the only one you've signed so far? Are you still proving the technology?AN:We haven't announced any other deals but we've been quite successful working with all the other studios. It's just a matter of the commercial terms that make sense for us. Clearly the more opinions you have, the more time it takes to get deals done. People who are rushing into this market are not doing the industry any favours because the studios have got to hear that there is pricing that is appropriate. They need to allow users to do things with the content and companies like Apple have strong opinions and Google has strong opinions. We expect this to be an evolutionary process on behalf of the studios. But by rushing into this you are not doing the studios or consumers or yourself any favours.TG:Apple has licensed some big blockbuster TV shows like Lost and Desperate Housewives on the iPod. There's lots of other content on other sites, more each day. Why wait or is it a case of you not being able to get the deals you need?AN:The idea is to get a comprehensive catalogue. That is part of the good user experience we want to offer. We also want to offer high-quality, fast downloads so it is a good experience to discover not only major content but also independently-created but high-quality content. Getting that good user experience doesn't happen overnight.TG:So you are still working on the technology. Clearly a big part of that is the copyright protection software. I know as well as you know that no digital rights management software in unhackable. So how do you convince the Warner Bros of the world that you can protect their programmes?AN:There will never be a DRM system that works. It's sort of like expecting a $75 door lock to protect all your valuables. Fundamentally you've got to get to a speed bump that works for 90% of the users. Ten percent of the users may have the interest and time to break something that is available for sale for $1 but most people aren't going to bother with that. Over time, we think DRM becomes lighter weight and less intrusive and the incentives to break it go down. That's what we're encouraging the whole industry to embrace a less intrusive and less proprietary way to protect there content. At our launch we are using Windows DRM, which is the accepted standard today. We're always looking for a standard that is independently created cross platform and the studios are as well, especially when they see that Apple and Microsoft are starting to exert their control and lock in users. The whole idea of DRM is going to be questioned at that point. The studios have resisted lock in from everyone from Comcast on, so this is the next hurdle for them, to avoid being strangled by the DRM that they are so attached to today.TG:So what's the solution to having Apple or Microsoft dictate terms?AN:I think the next phase is about DRM free. It will be like the watermarked approach so that content is labelled as mine and the process of putting it up on a P2P network is not attractive because I paid for it and so others should probably pay for it, too. Do I want something with my name on it all over the web? No. So that can be a pretty effective form of copy protection.TG:That's all well and good but isn't there a race on right now as sites like yours and Apple's and many others  even those run by the studios themselves- try and round up the right content and the lion share of users and become the next big thing?AN:Yes there are definitely a lot of people trying to get into this business. And there are different models like Guba.com, which is a streaming site so they don't have the peer-to-peer benefit but they do have the adult business and they're got a lot of servers! But strictly speaking, there is no perfect competitor to BitTorrent. Clearly Apple and Amazon are selling video, but longer term we are happy that there are people coming to market with these offerings because we think our longer-term business is purely content delivery. The idea is to take our secret sauce and make it available to people who are successful in this business because they will need it to push the quality of their services and to manage their costs. So no matter who's successful, BitTorrent wins.TG:It sounds like you may not be in the retail business yourselves for very long, but what is your view on the pricing for these kind of offers? I mean your 80 million users are getting this stuff for free now.AN:One of the things that seems to be proven is that consumers need a consistent pricing framework. The pricing needs to be commensurate with the value proposition of getting a digital download and so we are learning from others. We haven't announced our own pricing yet. We are shaping that up.TG:How much content do you need to have before you launch the paid-for service?AN:It's a marketing and programming decision. We think we know our users very well and we have an interesting curatorial and editorial process. The idea is basically a combination of professional and community curation. We're facilitating and enhancing this experience with our own efforts but we think the community will eventually take over. This requires us to be comprehensive in the content we bring to the service.TG:Are you talking about user-generated content?AN:No. What I mean is the community acting as editors. There are really three ways to curate. One is professional which is us and one is through ratings from users and the third is technology-based, which is basically a recommendation engine that learns from what you like. We are building that. It's one of the things that Bram thinks a lot about. He's been looking at recommendation systems for several years and has built some interesting technology. Clearly some of the user interfaces on Google Video are very difficult and users are struggling and publishers are struggling and they are not getting the appropriate branding and so aren't connecting with their users. A video store cannot look like web search. It needs to be a richer experience that brings people they might not even know they want yet.TG:What about user generated content? Will you encourage it and try to become YouTube 2?AN:We care about the users who have created the content, not necessarily the people who have posted content that they haven't created or which they don't own. Right now we have a submission tool that allows people to submit content on an invite-only basis. We'll probably open that up to the public when we have set the right tone and people feel like they will be using it for the right purposes.TG:So controlled UGC. Sounds like you don't see it as the future, which is interesting given that only a few days ago Google spent $1.6 billion to buy YouTube.AN:People use BitTorrent to post UGC to their own sites and then our webcrawler picks it up. So instead of allowing people to post to their own sites we are going to allow then to post to our site as well and therefore we hope to have a better connection with the artists and the file sharers. One thing about BitTorrent is we are all users as wellTG:and all under the age of 25 no doubt?AN:Well I think the average age of BitTorrent staff is 29. But we in a sense don't need to do endless focus groups because we are the focus group!TG:You say you are moving to a paid content model, but why will anyone pay for content that has been free?AN:Thirty percent of our users say they would be willing to pay for content. It's a very high number and in terms of what they would be willing to pay, these are the things that we are trying to dial in right now. This is again where we have to use ourselves and friends as well as competitive forces as well. We learned a lot from Apple, which has this very captive audience with an end-to-end, locked-in approach. So we feel we need to embrace partners on both sides of us, on the content side and the hardware side. So in the next year or two part of the execution plan is to invent BitTorrent on other devices beyond the PC.TG:Why will I go to BitTorrent for my content? Why won't I go to Aol.com or abc.com or innertube.com, the CBS video site. Why will I choose BitTorrent?AN:No one is going to those sites today and everyone is using BitTorrent so that is a pretty good start. We have brand awareness. We have users. We have built in behaviour pattern and an association with high-quality digital content. That's a good starting point.
We get far more letters than we can possibly print. So here are the ones that we picked from... Please note: these are unedited for spelling or grammar.JOINED UP EXPERIENCES &gt;&gt; InJoined Up Experiencesit is pointed out that Microsoft is going to compete (or tying to compete) with the iPod, not at a device level, but as an overall experience. Who can deliver the better overall experience? Microsoft bet that people want to tag, recommend and share songs, and they have the best system for doing this. And it's true, I for one don't find the iPod and iTunes "a good share". Places likeMySpaceare "a good share" for music. Could MySpace be the next iTunes? It could.http://voicesage.blogspot.com/2006/10/customer-interaction-vs-social.htmlFOSSIL FUELLEDIt is true that electric cars will take over from cars with internal combustion engines. The driver though will be climate change and not peak oil. Estimates of when Peak Oil will occur vary from now to within the next thirty years. Climate Change however is definitely happening now and the rate at which estimates for the need to reduce carbon emissions are rapidly being increased, from 60% by 2050 until recently, to 70% by 2030 last month, and authors such as George Monbiot argue that it is 90% by 2030. Climate research centre Tyndall estimate that by 2010 city centres could be restricted to just electric cars. The point is that change is happening quicker than most people realise and the impact upon our lifestyles could be sudden and dramatic. As our choice of car has a bigger environmental impact than any other we make as consumers, switching to electric cars represents an immediate opportunity to dramatically reduce carbon emissions (electric cars reduce the impact of emissions by between 74% and 100% depending on how they are charged) and, at least in London given the incentives, to reduce motoring costs by up to 90% as well. Keith Johnston, Managing Director, GoinGreen, Southall, LondonFive years not fifty! This year, less regular oil is being produced/consumed than last year. Alfred Nassim, Ryde, Isle of WightWelcome to the concept of peak oil! To misquote a famous American, it's the Geology stupid! You are absolutely right that in the distant future we will be driving far fewer cars. Where you are wrong is in the time scales. It is going to happen a lot, lot sooner. The US government's Energy Information Agency is a standing joke. They take the forecast global demand for oil for the next 30 years, assuming unconstrained economic growth, then they map the world's future supply onto this figure, as best they can. Unfortunately it isn't going to happen. To give you a few numbers, global production of fossil liquid hydrocarbons (oil, gas, and coal derived oil and oil substitutes) has been effectively static for 18 months now, in which time the market price has more than doubled. In fact there has been a marginal steady decrease in production since Dec. 2005. Very serious oil professionals are calling global peak production by 2010, some say it has already happened. The recent drop in oil prices (to $57 /barrel is I type) is due to forecast reduced US demand, due largely to a housing and debt bubble. (Some people call peak oil as 2005 and the recent price drop due to political manipulation for US November elections). Production decline rates have been variously predicted at 3%, 5% even 8% per year after that. The truth is nobody knows , but global decline rates are the real key to our predicament. The UK situation, however, is in a much better defined, and a FAR WORSE predicament. North Sea oil and gas have been in decline for a few years now, and we are now a net importer of both oil and gas. Annual decline rates are currently 7-9% for oil and 13-17% for gas. We will be very lucky if we can build import gas facilities fast enough to replace our falling production, and this makes no account of the gas being available for import, from the European /Global market when we have built them. Last winter we burned 10% more coal than the previous year to offset the shortage of gas. That did nothing to meet our Kyoto commitments. Add into that that we now import the bulk of our coal, that we are facing a closure of the majority of our nuclear power stations and our largest coal burning stations due to lifetime and environmental constraints, and we are producing 9% less total indigenous power, year on year. Just think what that is going to do to our national balance of payments, which is already dreadful. If you really want to know the future of oil, view these web sites:http://www.theoildrum.com; for a UK perspectivehttp://uk.theoildrum.com;http://www.powerswitch.org.ukYou will never look at your car the same way again (or anything else for that matter) Ralph Williams, CambridgeWith respect, I don't think it true that "human beings are irredeemably selfish". It's easy to say so nowadays, but the solution to our energy problems may lie in a species-wide swing in precisely this regard. It does seem to be true that in a mix of selfish and unselfish, the former will seize power and property, and enslave the latter. (I think that's our predicament.) It also seems true that human discoveries of the world and how it works have been largely fuelled by competitive selfishness (would we have atomic energy but for the bomb? and carbon dating was a byproduct of wartime investigation of the consequences). On the other hand, there have been and doubtless still will are examples of selflessness (giving you like not just for friends, but for other, for animals, even for enemies). And - what is often overlooked - the various Stone Age communities discovered in the 20th century in remote fortunate places are reported as idyllic - and I myself have checked this out and can confirm a complete absence of selfishness. (And as Clinton proclaimed, all societies contain much the same spread of DNA.) What remains possible, in my view, is that our species has gone as far as it can on the selfish track, and (given the global village effect) may now be due to transform all at once - a Darwinian change in a sense, producing a sapient paradise, the human imago stage. Then we'd be modest in energy needs, and cherish the biomass on which we depend. Hugh Sacker, Knockandarragh, IrelandThat was the most absurd statement I've ever heard. I assume you've never heard of solar panels, wind turbines, geothermal and hydro generation of electricity? These have proven to produce more than our share of needed electricity. These can all be placed on top of any roof, spare piece of land, carports, garages etc. Nuclear, on the other hand, only poses environmental risks. For the price of a nuclear generator, all the previously mentioned methods can easily be implemented without the environmental risks nuclear plants pose. These risks are no better than the burning of hydrocarbons in practice today. Kindly rethink your article and propose these other forms of electricity generation. Richard Farci, St. Petersburg, FLOil is not running out. The production of easily refined, high quality petroleum oil is rising to meet demand, but discoveries of new reserves are not keeping pace, and extraction is slowing. At some point demand will outstrip supply as current wells deplete. The price of sweet crude will rise. That will mean that the refining of difficult-to-refine, low quality petroleum oils will become economically attractive. Indeed, for reasons of Energy Security, these sources of petroleum are already being tapped, for example in Canada. The danger is that we will continue to demand petroleum at the rates we demand today, whatever the source, and whatever the price. It is true that the difficulty of refining low-grade petroleum oils will risk their flow into the markets, which would incentivise alternative fuels. However, electricity is not guaranteed to be financially or environmentally preferential as a power source for transportation. When Charles Arthur refers to electricity-powered vehicles, he neglects to admit that the majority of electricity generation is, and will continue to be, performed by the burning of Fossil Fuels. Nuclear Power generation is too energy- and financially-intensive to ever make up a significant proportion of even our current energy supplies. As petroleum oils and Natural Gas deplete from the high quality wells, there will be a shift to electricity-powered vehicles - but the power will be generated from the burning of the 200 years of cheap dirty coal we have left - and that is even more destructive a prospect than a massive expansion of Nuclear Power. Nuclear Power generation is not Carbon-free : the figures show that for the whole life cycle of Nuclear generation roughly a third of the Carbon Dioxide emissions of Natural Gas generation are incurred. So, we will either demand expensive, environmentally-destructive petroleum from low-grade sources, or we will demand expensive, environmentally-destructive electricity from mostly Fossil Fuel plants, and some Nuclear Plants. This is unacceptable. The only future that is sustainable requires us to travel less. If you must have a car, have a small, light electric vehicle that you never replace, and recharge it from truly Renewable Energy. Or go car-free. Dig up the M25 and grow food. We'll need it. The world cannot afford the biofuel or electricity the developed nations will want for transportation after the cheap oil is gone. It's either food or cars as far as I can see, and the food supply is going to be highly stressed by Climate Change if we continue to use cars for much longer. Let's get serious about energy, Ms Jo Abbess, Londonquite right...when exactly are we going to decouple from fossil fuels and how? few commentators can lower themselves to the practical things they can do like change boilers, hang good quality curtains, put time clocks on immersion heaters, walk or catch the bus... No one can bring themselves to complain to the staff of cafe Nero that the aircon is turned on when all that is needed is that the door or window be opened to let fresh air in... No one wants to cite the big organisations that keep the lights on in there offices...or the computers running...all night... No one can be bothered to talk about boiler manufacturers reluctance to educate the installers on energy efficient boilers..how about technology that varies central heating flow temperatures according to outside temperature...something that is common in Europe.. No one wants to talk about ground source heat pumps that are common in northern Europe and are up to 300% efficient.. No one wants to admit that we have squandered north sea oil...and we are technologically behind Europe where condensing boiler have been developed more than 20 years ago.. In fact there are lots of lofty ideas...but no one really wants to grasp the route of the problem which is that we have to be aware of energy consumption... scarcity in an age of consumption is really difficult to deal with...and doubly so when boiler manufacturers in the UK are nothing but glorified sales offices of European multinationals (the UK despite inventing the boiler has very few significant players in boiler design) Everything talked about in the press is still a lofty ideal.... No journalist has the balls to get a gas engineer to put a probe in the flue of an ideal Mexico boiler with a flue gas temperature of 140-160c and show ordinary people that a condensing boiler flue gas temperature is always under 70c, every one understands that that must mean more efficiency... but the industry cant be bothered and nor can the journalists...hey why rock the boat? Alec Morrow (no post town given)Oh dear, Charles Arthur, in his article on Oct 13th, displays several pitfalls of being stuck in the Guardian back pages, the greatest of which is complacency in the face of the twin crises of global climate change and Peak Oil, which he appears to have just heard about. First, the dates by which he says Peak Oil will kick in are wildly optimistic by most current standards. The recent BBC Radio 4 four-part series on the subject took several estimates which vary from now to within the next ten years. Most experts now think that if Peak Oil is not already with us, it will be in the next couple of years. To get an idea of its seriousness, try H. Kunstler, 'The Long Emergency'. Second, to quote: 'And what will get us out of the jam we're in? Technology, obviously.' Along with many city-based techno-geeks, Charles Arthur seems to view technology as existing outside the natural world of finite resources, natural limits, and economics. Many writers from the Guardian's other pages, such as John Vidal, Paul Brown and George Monbiot, as well as experts such as Paul Mobbs, have over the years been taking critical looks at these assumptions, and pointing out that a) uranium is itself a dwindling resource subject to the laws of economics, ie we will not be able to afford the fuel for any new nuclear power stations we commission now for use in twenty years' time, and b) so long as demand for energy continues to rise, there are no sustainable technological ways to meet it. To save the earth we must consume one fifth of the energy we currently use. That is the challenge. Technology can obviously be harnessed to help us do it more efficiently, but the essence that has been denied by our government, because it looks like Old Labour austerity, is to reduce demand. Which brings us on to Charles' third fallacy, which is that we are all following each other in an ineffectual circle. OK, he and his techno clique may be, but I and many others living off the grid or attempting to live a lifestyle that does not cost the earth know that it is possible to live sustainably, that to do so is rewarding in many ways, and that it takes a personal commitment to embrace alternative technology without being driven by it. It is pointless to wait for leadership from politicians; they will be the last to catch on. Tony Wrench, Newport, PembrokeshireTRAINS (STILL MOVING)Even in the steam age, railway carriages were fitted with dynamos and batteries to provide power for lighting. Then of course, you simply opened the window for "air conditioning". The mistake is to believe that this energy is free, when it is an (albeit small) extra load on the locomotive. (If you do not believe this, run your car engine on tick over and switch on the headlights, listening to the engine note. It will slow down, but it may speed up again if the engine management system is sensitive enough to compensate by supplying extra fuel.) The clever method is to use some of the waste energy available when braking (but even this is not free). Modern electric trains use regenerative braking to feed power back into the supply. Ian Taylor, Carnforth, LancsOut of concern that you may not have had at least a million responses to Georgeanne Slater. Energy taken from bicycle wheels, driven or not, came from the rider. A resistance is noticeable when the dynamo is engaged. Similarly, taking energy from train wheels, bogies or not, to power lights means less diesel or electricity available for motion. Moreover, taking energy in this indirect way is less efficient: electrical energy is converted to motion but then some of this motion energy is converted back to electricity. Aside from useful energy lost in transmission, each transfer of energy from one form to another incurs further loss with friction producing waste heat and sound energy. Total energy in equals total energy out - the trick is to maximise the useful work done. Chris Oldman, CheltenhamWhilst Ian Soady may be correct in saying that more power would be needed to generate electricity, it should be remembered that almost from the early beginnings of the railways, all passenger coaches had a dynamo slung underneath the chassis and this fed a bank of batteries to supply the lighting of each coach. The belt linking dynamo and the wheel axle was clearly visible. At a start point such as Cheltenham, passengers used to have to sit in the dark until the guard came and flicked a switch.. Jack Hill, St AlbansGeorgeanne Slater (Letters and blogs, October 5) and Ian Soady (Power point, October 12) may be too young to be aware that in the days when trains were hauled by steam locomotives every carriage had its own generator, belt driven from a wheel axle, to provide electricity for lighting. The second law of thermodynamics seems to have remained undefeated by this. Guy Smales, Chandler's Ford, Hants
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
My Norton Internet Security runs out at the end of the month. It is the 2005 version. What should I replace it with? Janet SheffieldIf you are happy with the software you have, the obvious replacement is Norton 2007. Since Norton 2006 was an improvement on 2005, 2007 may well be too, but you can read reviews on the net, such as tinyurl.com/y9wzqa.Alternatively you could switch to either AVG (fromfree.grisoft.com) or Avast (tinyurl.com/56jes). Both of these are proper commercial programs with full business versions, and both use technology developed in the Czech Republic. However, both firms have free versions available for non-commercial home users, which I have tried and can recommend. The main catch is that the free versions come with no support. If you have problems, you will have to turn to the support boards, not the companies themselves.You must also make sure that you have all aspects of security covered, not just anti-virus checking. Many firms now offer complete suites, and although some components may be weaker than others, this approach is very convenient. If you just install an anti-virus program, you may need to install Windows Defender (formerly Giant Anti-spyware) and/or Ewido (bought by Grisoft and available in a limited free version), to combat spyware and Trojans, plus a firewall. I'd also add SpywareBlaster (www.javacoolsoftware.com), which is freeware; you don't need it running all the time.Unfortunately, there are not as many good free firewalls around as there used to be. At the moment, I'm recommending the Kerio Personal Firewall, which has been rescued by Sunbelt Software (tinyurl.com/aaspz) of CounterSpy fame. Like Ewido, this comes as a trial version that reverts to a more limited level of functionality if you don't pay up. However, it's still good enough for home use.There are other good products I don't have room to mention. Sadly, there are even more bad products, and some programs that claim to be anti-spyware are actually malware. There are lots of programs that pretend to find problems with your PC then pretend to fix them, for a fee, and these often appear in Google's advertising and search results. Check the Spyware Warrior List of Rogue/Suspect Anti-Spyware Products &amp; Web Sites (www.spywarewarrior.com/rogue_anti-spyware.htm) before downloading anything unfamiliar.
My anti-virus and anti-spyware subscription with Zone Alarm has expired. I am not sure if it is worth me renewing it because I could not use any of the recent updates, which were incompatible with Windows 98. Laura PicandSupport for old DOS-based versions of Windows (95/98/Me) is now falling but Sunbelt's Kerio Personal Firewall and many other products still work with Windows 98. Another alternative is the Jetico Personal Firewall (www.jetico.com/index.htm#/jpfirewall), which is freeware and works well. Also, Avast and AVG Free still work with Windows 98. However, support won't continue forever, and in a year or so you might think about moving on to a new PC running Windows Vista.
When two twenty-somethings posted a home-made video on YouTube last week they initially attracted more than 1.3m views, but they didn't earn a cent for their efforts. This didn't matter to them because the two in question, Chad Hurley and Steve Chen, owned the company and had just sold it to Google for $1.65bn. But the fact that they didn't get paid is still a matter of some interest. We are at the start of a creative revolution on the web, enabling millions of people to publish their own videos, music, photographs, books, blogs or whatever, and it is important to make sure it doesn't turn into a rip-off for a new breed of intermediaries. Content is king, but the king has yet to be voted a stipend.The curious thing about YouTube is that the people who ought to be paid (individual content creators) aren't actually campaigning for it, while corporate providers are threatening legal action over clips pirated on YouTube - even though normally they are only too happy to pay a media platform to show clips of films or TV shows to generate interest in watching the whole thing or buying it as a DVD.The creators of YouTube have done a great service in bringing video creation to the masses. But it was not because their technology was superior to others in the field (it wasn't), but because they were in the right place at the right time when, unpredictably, YouTube suddenly attracted critical mass. This was a huge victory for garage start-ups over the likes of Google, Microsoft and Yahoo, which found to their cost that the mighty leverage arising from their big market shares in existing products buttered no parsnips in the new world of web creativity.As a result YouTube, a company that has been mainstream for barely a year, attracted a price tag of $1.65bn, equivalent to almost $25m per employee (not that they will see much of it) or $123 for each of YouTube's unique monthly users. The figure for those who actually generate the content would be far higher than $123 because only a small proportion of users actually put their own videos up.Yet without those content creators, YouTube - and Flickr, and all the others - would be nothing. Imagine what would happen if eBay tried to value itself on the basis of all the inventory it held on behalf of its sellers. It wouldn't because it knows the inventory doesn't belong to it.Doubtless, Google will solve this problem by offering users a share in any revenues generated from clicking adverts at the start or (more likely) at the end of the clip as other video sites such as Revver already do (it offers a 50% share to creators). But this doesn't obviate the need for some kind of social contract as the web's creative revolution gathers pace.Where all this is leading is anyone's guess. In a debate in a recent issue of Harper's Magazine, Thomas de Zengotita argues that since everyone can now have a creative life "everyone will be an artist, but the price is that no one will be a great artist" - since, he argues, there will no longer be a place for such a being. If that turns out to be true, then we should at least ensure everyone gets paid for what they do even if they don't scale the great heights.But it is surely more likely that more great artists will be produced in the new atmosphere. Under the old model, only a tiny fraction of potential Joyces or potential Beatles ever got noticed because they never managed to convince an agent, let alone a publisher, of their worth. Now, since everyone can submit their work to a pool to be assessed online by their peers, it is less likely that potentially great works will remain undiscovered, even though some may have to wait to be plucked from the "long tail" of works selling in small numbers. The revolution is well under way: it just needs to be monetised.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Guns, swearing, footy, fantasy and strategy -today's reviewslaugh at the calls for gaming to broaden its appeal. I covered the surprisingly good FIFA '07 and can see myself, for the first time ever, actually playing a FIFA game after review. Which is more than can be said for Scarface. Tony Montana's game gets a positive review but I personally thought is was horribly average - does the world really need another GTA clone? The other review is Stronghold: Legends, the apparently decent German RTS (real time strategy) game. Personally I wouldn't touch a German RTS game if it was the only game installed on the only PC left in the world. But that's just me.ElsewhereAleks get social in WoW.
Watercoolergameshas tipped me off to an excellent paper byVit islerwhich explores the representations of Arab and Muslim identities in games. The research, titled "Representation and Self-Representation: Arabs and Muslims in Digital Games," presents a historical analysis of the varying approaches to including characters with these identities in Western and Middle Eastern interactive entertainment.The paper takes as its starting pointGonzalo Frasca's idea thatUnlike narrative, simulations are a kaleidoscopic form of representation that can provide us with multiple and alternative points of view. By accepting this paradigm, players can realize that there are many possible ways to deal with their personal and social reality. Hopefully, this might lead to the development of a tolerant attitude that accepts multiplicity as the rule and not the exception.The author examines a wide range of titles, including The Magic of Scheherazade, Iznogoud, Prince of Persia, War in the Gulf, Full Spectrum Warrior, Command and Conquer, Special Force, Under Ash and Tahta al-Ramad.He concludes,Today we are in crucial need of critically understanding the symbolic and ideological dimensions of in-game representational politics.Thought-provoking stuff.
Mobile phones have brought us voice, data and even television. But handset manufacturers say the next big thing is using phones for shopping and ticketing.Manchester City fans are at the forefront of this predicted development: 200 season ticket holders are trialling a system through which they "show" their Nokia 3320 handset to an automatic reader to get into a game, instead of handing a card to a gate attendant.Within 12 to 18 months, claim handset makers, this Near Field Communication (NFC) technology, which allows the handsets to buy and store low value electronic tokens (such as sport and transport tickets), will start being standard on new handsets. The Nokia 3320, used in the football trial, is already available and like the company's more rugged 5140i is NFC-capable - once a shell containing the necessary chips and mini-transmitter is fitted to the handset. Such capabilities will be shipped inside mobile phones from next year, Nokia predicts.The latest figures from research groups such as ABI Research and Strategic Analysis agree that around 40% of mobiles will be shipped with NFC as standard before the decade is out.The company which makes the access technology for Manchester City's ground believes these early trials will soon lead to trials by other major ticketing companies, and perhaps fully-fledged services in 2007. Besides serving several stadia around the world, NXP Semiconductors supplies the access technology for 75% of the main transport networks in the world, including the technology behind London's Oyster card system on behalf of Transport for London (TfL).In London, the Oyster card means people do not need paper tickets for journeys; instead, the card stores electronic credits which are deducted at the end of each journey by a reader that can scan a ticket a couple of centimetres away. That means commuters can check through station barriers by hovering their card over the reader.NXP's head of business development, Taoufik Ghanname, points out that mobile ticketing has always been behind its strategy as it rolled out its readers."We co-founded the NFC Forum which works on the open standards for this technology, so unlike other access technologies, a mobile capability has been built in to every system we've ever installed," he claims. "So it really isn't a big leap, we just need the phones with the necessary chips inside and then they can be read just like an Oyster card."Ghanname will not say when a TfL trial will begin, but points out that a trial like the Manchester one ran at the Atlanta Hawks' arena in the US for four months earlier this year before the results were made public. He expects the results of the Manchester City trial to be presented to other potential triallists after Christmas.NXP is now setting up a trial for New York's public transport system and has already run trials with the Nokia 3320 handset on transport systems in Hanau, Germany, with Vodafone, and in Xiamen, China, with China Mobile. The service is now available to the public in Hanau.A TfL spokesman says a trial of an Oyster-equipped mobile could happen at "some stage in the not too distant future". TfL's only question at present is, when will enough handsets that can store ticketing information be on the market?Alan Wright, head of mobile strategy at Motorola, points out that many of the new handsets coming on to the market within 12 to 18 months will be NFC-enabled. From then, it should become commonplace to pay for low value goods and services on a mobile phone - beginning with tickets.But will topping up phones be safe? Wright says "a lot of work" has been done with credit card suppliers such as Visa and MasterCard to ensure the system is securely encrypted. "Unlike a wallet, if your phone is stolen it can be deactivated over the airwaves," Wright says."Also, downloading credit onto the phone would be PIN protected, so a thief could not download extra money and go on a spending spree. Although the technology is mobile, nobody can interrogate your handset to steal money from it because only a proper reader can deduct money from a phone, and that reader can only work over a couple of centimetres ."Motorola has two mobile handsets developed for the Japanese market to enable customers on the Bullet train to buy and store tickets on their handset.Meanwhile, Nokia predicts that its two NFC-enabled phones - which currently require a new shell or "skin" to be fitted - will be superseded next year by phones with the technology built in.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Update:OK, it's short notice I realise but... on Thursday I'm meetingSteve Wozniak, co-founder of Apple and one of the fathers of computing as we know it.Woz is in London doing some gladhanding for his new autobiography,iWoz, and I've got some time with him. But in the spirit of interactivity et al, I thought I'd hand over some of the questions to you guys.So, what do you want to ask Woz? I'll pick the best questions and put them to him for you.Fire away: the deadline is high noon GMT, Thursday October 19.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Preserving a copy of the futureThe British Library and the recording industry are arguing about proposals to extend the lifespan of copyright. Wendy M Grossman looks at the issues behind the row.Can an American judge take a British company offline?The fallout from a legal battle in the US has sparked talk of a constitutional crisis for the net.At last, the price is right for access to our lawsFree Our Data: The Guardian has found out that citizens will not be charged for access to the Statute Law Database. (More at theFree Our Data blog.)What a WoW of a way to get to know someoneAleks Krotoski: I met someone new yesterday. This is a significant event; my writing and research centre around digital phenomena, and I spend most of my time in my attic home office with my head plugged into a laptop, my eyes scrolling until they roll and my trigger finger tapping like a Morse coder on ephedrine.GamesScarface | Stronghold: Legends | FIFA '07Newly Asked QuestionsWhy isn't there a text message version of 999?Imagine the situation: you've been kidnapped, but you've still got access to a mobile phone. Making a call is out of the question - that would just alert your abductor, so you try to send a text message. That's exactly what happened last month to 14-year-old American Elizabeth Shoaf, who was rescued after stealing her kidnapper's phone and sending a message to her mother.What content does Google censor outside China?Outside China, Google blocks only websites with child abuse images and certain values from its search of ranges of numbers.We really need some discontent creatorsVictor Keegan: When two twenty-somethings posted a home-made video on YouTube last week they initially attracted more than 1.3m views, but they didn't earn a cent for their efforts. This didn't matter to them because the two in question, Chad Hurley and Steve Chen, owned the company and had just sold it to Google for $1.65bn.TechnobileLinda Jones: A supermaket checkout that isn't childproof and can't scan bananas? Sorry, but it's back to the "10 items only" queue for me.Preparing themselves for a torrent of usersAshwin Navin is president and chief executive of BitTorrent, whose peer-to-peer protocol transfers huge files efficiently across the net. He is leading its move onto a commercial footing by content deals.The NHS IT programme is putting the accent on innovationMichael Cross: Congratulations to the NHS for facing down Accenture. The refusal at the end of last month to renegotiate contracts worth 2bn that were less than three years into their 10-year life led to the consultancy giant's decision to resign as a prime contractor from the NHS National Programme for IT.Now you can go shopping with your mobile phoneForget about the Oyster card - soon you'll be able to travel on the Tube using your phone as a ticket.GPL backers agree to disagreeA new version of its overarching licence has opened a split between free and open source software.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.Letters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.NewsbytesBin raiding reveals risk | BT is switched on | Chairs for gamers | White goods, in black | Another day, another Treo
The Guardian's Free Our Data campaign has notched up a victory in its quest to ensure the consolidated law of the land is available for every citizen free of charge.The Statute Law Database has been an ongoing government project for the past decade, eating up hundreds of thousands of pounds of taxpayers' money. In spite of this, officials at the Department for Constitutional Affairs (DCA) had said the database would be run using a commercial strategy that would charge users for accessing the laws of the land (Access denied to the laws that govern us, August 17).The change of position came via an email, seen by the Guardian, sent by Clare Allison, the enquiry system project manager at the Statute Publication Office to testers of the Statute Law Database.In it she says: "We are also pleased to announce that the website as it stands will be launched free to the public once piloting has been completed. A commercial strategy will still be developed next year, but will be looking at options that concern the commercial reuse of the data and the development of functionality that will serve the needs of the specialist user."The UK is unusual in keeping secret and exercising strict copyright control over the consolidated law. Canada, Australia and the US all provide free access to the raw statute law data and there is either no copyright, or it is waived.Roger Cook, chairman of the British and Irish Law Librarians Association welcomed the news of free access, albeit cautiously. "It's great that the database will now be free of charge but we need to keep an eye on it. The way this is worded it still leaves them the option to charge for it."Francis Irving, the software developer who won two New Statesman New Media awards for his sites writetothem.com (Contribution to Civic Society Award) and pledgebank.com (Advocacy Award), believes the DCA's commitment to open access ought to go further."While it is welcome that the DCA are making the service free to the public at the point of use, it is still outrageous that they are considering charging for redistribution of the law of the land. The consolidated law should be redistributable under the same crown copyright waiver as the acts are themselves.There is not only the moral case that we should be free to make copies of the laws that bind us, but also the practical case that free redistribution would create lots of exciting legal information products and services, making it easier for us all to understand the law."It is understood that all the functions on the beta test version of the legal database will be provided free of charge. This would includes the ability to search for laws as they were passed by parliament as well as version histories that would show the law as it stood at any point in time since 1991."Based on these plans, we expect to be able to make the service available for general use by December," says Alfred Bacchus, a spokesman for the DCA.The second phase of testing for the law database ended in September. The third and final phase is expected to have more than 100 testers drawn from a wider audience including members of the public.&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:www.freeourdata.org.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Microsoft joins inJoined-up experiences (Technology, October 12) pointed out that Microsoft is tying to compete with the iPod, not at a device level, but as an overall experience. Who can deliver the better experience? MS bets that people want to tag, recommend and share songs, and they have the best system for doing this. And it's true - I for one don't find the iPod and iTunes "a good share". Places like MySpace are "a good share" for music. Could MySpace be the next iTunes? It could.voicesage.blogspot.com/2006/10/customer-interaction-vs-social.htmlFuel for thoughtIt is true that electric cars will take over from cars with internal combustion engines (We need the energy to break out of our fossilised ways, October 12). The driver, though, will be climate change and not peak oil.The Tyndall Climate research centre estimates that by 2010 city centres could be restricted to just electric cars. The point is that change is happening quicker than most people realise and the impact upon our lifestyles could be sudden and dramatic. Switching to electric cars represents an immediate opportunity to dramatically reduce carbon emissions (electric cars reduce the impact of emissions by between 74% and 100% depending on how they are charged) and, at least in London given the incentives, to reduce motoring costs by up to 90% as well.Keith JohnstonManaging director, GoinGreen, Southall, LondonFive years, not 50! This year, less regular oil is being produced/consumed than last year.Alfred NassimRyde, Isle of WightWhen Charles Arthur refers to electric vehicles, he neglects to admit that the majority of electricity generation is, and will continue to be, performed by the burning of fossil fuels. Nuclear power generation is too energy- and financially-intensive to ever make up a significant proportion of even our current energy supplies.As oil and natural gas deplete from the high quality wells, there will be a shift to electric vehicles, but the power will be generated from the burning of the 200 years of cheap dirty coal we have left.Nuclear power generation is not carbon-free: the figures show that for the whole life cycle of nuclear generation roughly a third of the carbon dioxide emissions of natural gas generation are incurred. So, we will either demand expensive, environmentally-destructive petroleum from low-grade sources, or we will demand expensive, environmentally-destructive electricity from mostly fossil fuel plants, and some nuclear plants.This is unacceptable. The only future that is sustainable requires us to travel less. If you must have a car, have a small, light electric vehicle and recharge it from truly renewable energy.Or go car-free. Dig up the M25 and grow food. It's either food or cars as far as I can see, and the food supply is going to be highly stressed by climate change. Let's get serious about energy.Jo AbbessLondonOn the wrong trackGeorgeanne Slater (Letters and blogs, October 5) and Ian Soady (Power point, October 12) may be too young to be aware that when trains were hauled by steam locomotives, every carriage had a generator, belt-driven from a wheel axle, to provide electricity for lights. The second law of thermodynamics seems to have remained undefeated by this.Guy SmalesChandler's Ford, HantsEven in the steam age, railway carriages were fitted with dynamos and batteries to provide power for lighting. Then, of course, you simply opened the window for "air conditioning".The mistake is to believe that this energy is free, when it is an (albeit small) extra load on the locomotive.The clever method is to use some of the waste energy available when braking (but even this is not free). Modern electric trains use regenerative braking to feed power back into the supply.Ian TaylorCarnforth, Lancs
ScarfaceXbox, PS2, PC, &pound;29.99, cert 18Radical/Vivendi Universal, 4/5It ought to be easy to dismiss Scarface as a mere Grand Theft Auto clone, but it proves to be compelling. It picks up where Brian de Palma's much-loved film left off - except this time, as Tony Montana, you can shoot your way out of the mansion and embark on the process of rebuilding your ill-gotten empire. Which, initially, involves hanging around in meticulous reconstructions of pivotal locations from the film and selling cocaine to street dealers. But the free-roaming aspect of the game soon kicks in, as you select side-missions, take over areas by massacring local gangs, acquire fronts and "luxuries" that are basically expensive tat (to gain respect) and advance the immaculately observed storyline. For once in such a game, acquiring new territory is fun, but the bulk of the game's enjoyment derives from the sheer pleasure of being Tony Montana, one of celluloid's most magnetic monsters.SBStronghold: LegendsPC, &pound;29.99, cert 12+Firefly/2K, 4/5Nobody does cerebral realtime strategy like the Germans, but this latest instalment in the Stronghold series likes a bit of action too. So it still takes a long time to set up the supply chains necessary to keep your medieval towns functioning, but you have to do it while fighting off attacks from every side. And it's not just rival lords you're up against, there are new mystical enemies who wage a very different kind of war. The first time you build your perfectly sensible defences only to have werewolves leap right over them, I guarantee you will curse the screen. This is a huge game, with great skirmish and multiplayer modes on top of three large single-player campaigns. Yes, it's basically the same engine as Stronghold 2, but when it plays this well, who cares?MAFIFA '07Xbox 360, PS2, Xbox, PC, Gamecube&pound;39.99, cert 3+, EA, 4/5New this, revolutionary that - the hype surrounding the annual FIFA footy titles is noisier than the artificial crowd in the game. But this time the marketers might be telling the truth. Sort of. There's little doubt that this is the best FIFA yet. The ball actually moves like a spherical object rather than remaining bizarrely attached to each player's boots. Passing has far more flexibility and the on-pitch action resembles the midfield slog of real football. Even Southampton's failure to win when they should has been worryingly replicated. A big improvement, but the FIFA flaws are still evident, with players still not feeling totally under control and suffering from a small, but noticeable, pause when challenging for a ball. The players also look more zombie than Zidane, too. Still, with more depth to the management side and an ambitious online offering, FIFA '07 packs a formidable gaming punch that finally offers a credible challenge to the genre champion, Pro Evolution Soccer.GH
