TheUbuntu Edge crowdfunding projecthas missed its $32m target by nearly $20m, winning $12.6m of pledges and a total of 17,215 phones out of the 40,000 it needed to be funded. All the money will now be returned; IndieGoGo is forsaking the usual cut that it demands from failed projects.Ubuntu Edge: how the funding grew - and missed its $32m target by nearly $20mBut the failure hasn't deterred Mark Shuttleworth, founder of Canonical, which was behind the project. Speaking exclusively to the Guardian on Monday, he said ahead of the deadline that if it failed, "It's definitely set a record for the most money raised, but also for the most missed in a campaign." The total pledges were almost $2m ahead of those raised by the Pebble smartwatch on Kickstarter - which did, however, hit and exceed its funding goal.Shuttleworth insisted that despite the failure, carriers and handset makers are definitely interested in building handsets which will run the mobile Linux - but that they will not be the top-end "superphones" which the Edge project hoped to produce.The Edge would have been a smartphone with 128GB storage, running both Android and Ubuntu Mobile, and capable of working as a desktop computer when plugged into a large screen. If the $32m total had been hit, Canonical said it would begin providing them from May 2014.Speaking on Monday, Shuttleworth was still hopeful that there would be a last-minute intervention by a handset maker or industry player who would kick in $20m and kickstart the program. "We have had a number of interesting approaches from industry players which get us closer," he said at the time. "But if we get to the end and there is no significant change, it will end there." The approaches never appeared, and the clock ran down.Linux challengersLooking ahead, Shuttleworth was dismissive of the Firefox OS and Android, and said that Ubuntu Mobile would be ideal for "the 25% of people who buy a smartphone but only use it as a phone" - and that the idea of the Ubuntu Edge, of a smartphone that would be powerful enough to also work as a PC, would eventually win people over.In the end, though, only Bloomberg came forward as a company prepared to put substantial money into the project, pledging for one of "Enterprise" slots which would have cost $80,000 and given it 115 phones. Three other unnamed organisations pitched in for "Enterprise Starter" slots costing $7,000 and offering 10 phones.But the majority of funding came from individuals pledging to buy a phone at between $600 (the first-day price, where 5,044 were snapped up) and $830, with a number of prices in between. In the later stages, the per-handset price was set at $695 - thanks, Shuttleworth said, to promises from manufacturers if the scheme went ahead."We have had behind-the-scenes approaches from industry players," he said. "But the clock [on the funding] is about what needs to be raised, and that's driven by the manufacturing costs of a high-end device."He said though that his experience suggested that existing smartphones are overpriced. "If you look at something like [Motorola's] MotoX, and the next-generation devices out there, it seems that there's quite heavy loading on the cost of devices just so it can have a brand on it. We're still seeing [profit] margins in the mobile hardware industry that we certainly don't see in the PC industry - it seems to just go on the maintenance of the brand and distribution. It isn't as efficient as the distribution that we see in the PC industry."He said that "there is an effective duopoly in mobile between Android and Apple. BlackBerry and Nokia are both struggling. Then there's the three mobile Linux OSs - Firefox OS, Tizen and Ubuntu Mobile. The impression we have from conversations with manufacturers is that they are open to an alternative to Android. And end-users don't seem emotionally attached to Android. There's no network effect from using Android like there was with Windows in the 1990s, where if some businesses starting using Windows then others had to follow. It's not like that on mobile. They all interoperate. Every Ubuntu device would be additive to the whole ecosystem of devices."Targeting the 25%The target of the "Android alternative" for carriers, he suggested, was "25% of users demand a smartphone but use it just as a phone. They don't buy apps or content. They're expensive to service, because they've got these smartphones, but they don't generate data revenues or much content revenue."That 25%, he suggested, would be ideal users of Ubuntu Mobile.But, I asked, doesn't that mean that Ubuntu Mobile would be aiming at the low-end user, rather than the high-end who had been targeted by the Edge project? "We're talking about mid- to high-end phones - none of these is a superphone [like the Edge]. The Edge is a concept car, not quite like Formula 1, which 40% of people could drive. But we're also working on putting a phone that's the equivalent of a mass-market car on the road. I would very much like to see the Edge but I didn't expect that the majority of Ubuntu Mobile users would come through the Edge - but through retail. Frankly, we'd see handset makers rebadge their Android phones and put Ubuntu Mobile on it."He says that Ubuntu would be preferable to Android, Firefox OS or Samsung's much-delayed Tizen: "Android is fragmented. Each model comes with modifications made by the manufacturer. And Android has struggled to build a clean, coherent user experience. The carriers feel the 25% could want an Ubuntu phone."Meanwhile, he says that Firefox OS has the weakness that "everything it does is in the browser, and that isn't necessarily going to be recognised by websites as a mobile browser - so you get the desktop site on your mobile screen. Ubuntu uses a WebKit-based browser [like Apple's MobileSafari and Google Chrome] so you get the mobile one."Shuttleworth cited a number of branded handset manufacturers which he says have shown off prototypes of Ubuntu Mobile phones to US carriers. "We have 12 carriers who say they want Ubuntu." But he acknowledges "they haven't said that they will ship Ubuntu phones, no."What then is the USP - unique selling point - for Ubuntu Mobile? If Apple offers "a computer in your pocket and a galaxy of apps", and Android offers the same built around Google's services, and Nokia is offering the best-quality pictures with a smartphone, what is Ubuntu Mobile's USP? "A crisp clean experience that does everything you want in a basic phone, and is part of the portfolio of experience of desktop and tablet," replies Shuttleworth.Enterprise support?Did the lack of support from enterprises - with only 1 of the offered 50 "enterprise" slots, at $80,000 each - suggest failure by Canonical to persuade potential clients ahead of the scheme? Most organisations can't get the approvals required for $7,000 or $80,000 pledges within a month. "The Bloomberg gesture [of taking up the first, and only, enterprise slot] was fantastic," Shuttleworth said. "I think they got involved because they could see they could restructure their IT. They're quite an impressive shop in the way they do IT themselves."He insisted too that the key idea behind the Ubuntu Edge - of a phone that could also double as a desktop - was one that would come to fruition. "Four years ago, McKinsey did a survey of people and asked them if they were going to stop carrying a laptop in favour of their smartphones, and the figure saying yes was surprisingly high. Now, they do that survey every year, and that number has gone down."But isn't that because the 2009 survey predated the iPad - and that since then tablets have become the second mobile device, so that people don't need to think about their laptop, but can carry a tablet instead? "We think as people work out how to get a productive experience, they'll want to put their phone down by a piece of glass - some sort of screen - and what you type appears on the glass. You can hook up a keyboard and you can work right there."Yet the reality seems to be that the price was too high for the perceived usefulness of the device. The Ubuntu Edge will now go down as a project which aimed high - but ultimately fell to earth.Shuttleworth though is undaunted. Getting Ubuntu Mobile adopted by carriers and handset makers "is a challenging proposition. But I wasn't made for the easy ones."
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFirst impressions of the ZTE Open and Firefox OS &gt;&gt; Taras YoungHe bought one. His impressions after a couple of hours:I think it's a good phone for the money, and is clearly backed by good intentions: see some of the accompanying materials in the bonus photos below which include statements from Mozilla indicating how they are positioning the OS. I've also included shots of the packaging and the various cables included, for fans of unboxing (I know you're out there!)The OS is still a bit buggy, but it's impressively complete for an initial semi-commercial release. Once the bugs start getting ironed out, and developers start really looking at building solid apps for the system, it should offer a real alternative to Android for those on a budget or who have privacy or other ethical concerns around using Google's OS.Spooked off the net: owner of Lavabit email blames US surveillance for closure &gt;&gt; RT USA"I'm going to keep fighting and doing everything that i can to try and get some positive to come from this. And by positive, i mean perhaps a judicial victory; perhaps a legislative victory. But the ultimate goal is to win the war, and ensure that once again Americans have a right to privacy when it comes to their online communications," [Lavabit owner Ladar Levison] said.Within hours of announcing Lavabit's shut-down, a defense fund set-up by Levison raised over $40,000. By the next day, he told RT, that number had climbed to $100,000. He has since hopped on a plane to Washington, DC to meet with his attorney in an effort to begin fighting in a battle that could very well pave the way for the future of communication.Long and interesting interview. (RT stands for Russia Today.)Linux hackers rebuild internet from Silicon Valley garage &gt;&gt; Wired.comCade Metz:Alex Polvi is living the great Silicon Valley archetype. Together with some old school friends, he's piecing together a tech revolution from inside a two-car Palo Alto garage.He's like Dave Packard or Steve Jobs or Sergey Brin — at least up to a point. The difference is that, from his vantage point here in the 21st century, Polvi views his garage with a certain sense of irony — "straight-up Palo Alto-style," he says — and he harbors ambitions that suit our particular time. He wants to change the way we build the entire internet, making this worldwide network of computer servers as easy to update as the browsers on our laptops.Inside that Palo Alto garage — the door open to the Silicon Valley summer sun, and the camping gear stacked against the wall — Polvi and his colleagues are fashioning a new computer operating system known as CoreOS. This isn't an OS for running desktop PCs or laptops or tablets. It's meant to run the hundreds of thousands of servers that underpin the modern internet.Keep watch on this. (Thanks #ClarkeViper for the link.)iOS 7 – Less Volkswagen, more Vanity Fair &gt;&gt; BEEDOCS BlogAdam Behringer has redesigned the Timeline app:Do you remember the web in the early 90's? Text content was king, hyperlinks were blue with underlines, and images were reserved only to those that were important to the content.To me, Apple is encouraging us to look back to those design values. Going back even further, think of books that only use one well-chosen font, in black, on one well-chosen paper, in white, laid out with well-chosen spacing. The goal is that you will get lost in the story and forget that everything you see was carefully designed.Not many app designers have given clues about how their revised products will look; Behringer offers some screenshots. First thought: removing the black element at the top and using white all over makes the screenseembigger, even though it's the same size.Commentary: 7-inch tablet demand to dwindle &gt;&gt; DigitimesSony started the trend of extending the smartphone markets to the 6-inch segment with the release of its Xperia Z Ultra, which features a 6.4in screen. Samsung Electronics, Nokia and HTC are also planning to release their new 6in smartphones in September.Smartphone vendors' move is not only changing the ecosystem of the smartphone industry, but also showing vendors' intention of seizing demand from the 7in tablet market, which is already plagued by a fierce price war.Although vendors of 7in tablets have already launched their counterstrike by promoting the phablet concept, adding the talk function to tablet devices, their move may be unable to turn the tide.This might be the case in Asia, but it's hard to imagine large numbers of western users walking around with 6in phones.Siri vs. the Android - the sequel &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comDavid Pogue:Though Siri has the edge, the gap has closed substantially, and both systems are rapidly improving. For example, until recently Android had no phone-control features at all — only Web searches. And in this fall's iOS 7 update, Siri will gain a more pleasant speaking voice, faster searches and the ability to change settings by voice ("Turn on Airplane Mode," "Turn up the brightness," "Turn on Bluetooth") — something neither phone can do now.This much is clear: cellphone speech recognition is getting better fast. Very soon, we'll do less talking through our phones — and more talking to them.It's the production line, stupid &gt;&gt; furbo.orgCraig Hockenberry brings a little big of logic to the cries of "Apple MUST make a phone with a larger screen!":[at 2012 levels] every second of every day you need six cases, six headphone jacks, six LCD screens, six batteries, six CPUs, six 10µf capacitors, six 10kΩ surface mount resistors, and thousands of other components.Look at where all the leaks about new products come from: it's always the supply chain that produces all these components. This should give you an idea of how many partners are involved.Basically, Apple creates a pipeline that produces devices at an amazing rate. And it's a finely tuned machine with a lot of inertia. You don't just walk in and say, "Hey, let's change the screen!" Doing so would throw that machine out of balance: a new screen means that some of the components (like the headphone jack) don't change, while others would (the case, for example.)What you see released was planned two years ago, in general.Androidly Smartwatch &gt;&gt; IndiegogoFirst true Smartwatch running Android OS with in-built Phone, WiFi, GPS, Bluetooth, 2MP Camera, USB port in the watch strap,and the entire Google Play store!Aiming for $100,000. Not quite made the first thousand after a day. Pitch in if you want one.Busted for dodging Linux licence, Samsung makes nice with free code &gt;&gt; Wired.comSamsung's code was written to work with Samsung's Android smartphones and tablets. It lets them read files that use a new Microsoft filesystem called ExFAT, but it also contained a fatal flaw. It used snippets of code that had been written for Linux, and Linux's GPL (Gnu General Public License) forces anyone who uses the Linux code to share their own changes with everyone else.Samsung wasn't doing that. But then, last spring, a strange thing happened. Someone posted Samsung's source code to GitHub, and a few months later, "rxrz"anonymously re-posted the ExFAT code, saying that it was now freely reusable under the terms of the GPL.(Thanks #ClarkeViper for the link.)Nexus phones are ringers &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansNexus devices and 'official Google' devices are not Google's dog food. They're not what actual customers use.The Nexus 7 sold only 7m units in almost a year and was only 10% of 'activated' Android tablets, on Google's numbers.  The Nexus 10 appears to have sold under 1m units. There's no strong indication that the Nexus handsets sell in large volumes, and rumours from Korea are for just 4m (global) unit sales of the most recent model in six months (it sold out at launch, but we don't know the order size). One can argue about why this is - distribution, branding, sales commissions, consumer awareness etc - but the Nexus phones aren't on anyone's list of top-selling or top-used Android phones that I've seen. This is device manufacturing as vanity publishing.The continued existence of the Nexus devices is actually puzzling in this context. What are theyfor? Android sells fine without them.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
Tesco is preparing to announce an own brand tablet computer under the brand name Hudl in time for Christmas, to compete with Apple, Google and Amazon for devices used for online shopping and video viewing.Sources in the hardware industry told the Guardian they expect the retailer to offer an 18cm (7in) device, priced to compete with Amazon's updated Kindle Fire and the newest version of Google's Nexus&nbsp;7, and made by a Chinese manufacturer.The tablet would contain easy ways to order goods from Tesco and also offer fast access to Blinkbox video-on-demand, which Tesco has controlled since April 2011 and which now has 2.8 million monthly users.Tablet sales are a booming part of the computer market, while sales of traditional PCs have fallen away: globally, tablets are likely to outsell laptops this year."The mind boggles at Tesco getting into this, but you can understand why they would," said Jeremy Davies of Context, which tracks UK and continental technology sales. "It's possible they would look to sell it for about £100, and initially order a few hundred thousand devices."The move comes after Tesco chief executive Philip Clarke said in June that the groupwould be scaling back on consumer electronics salessuch as flat-screen TVs, a category which he said "quite frankly takes up a lot of space and [doesn't] take a lot of money."But tablets could be sold online, especially targeting customers who are already Blinkbox customers or identified through its loyalty scheme as likely to be big spenders online.Tesco laid the groundwork for the move in February when itapplied for the Hudl trademarkto cover a wide range of goods, including tablets and accessories, screen protectors, internet set-top boxes and wireless speakers.Context's research found that in the first half of 2013, sales of tablets in western Europe more than doubled compared with the same period in 2012. Sales of PCs fell by 12% in the same period – pointing to tablets as a key way to engage older and younger shoppers.Benedict Evans, technology and telecoms analyst at research group Enders Analysis, said such a move made sense."In the short term, Tesco wants to try to capture some of the DVD, music and book revenue that's leaving their stores and going digital – they own Blinkbox and music and books services."
Sony has revealed its hand in the latest instalment of its long-running games console battle with Microsoft by announcing the PlayStation 4 will reach European retailers on 29 November.With more than 1m advance orders already scored, Sony has priced its device at £349 in the UK and $399 (£254) in the United States, exactly $100 cheaper than the Xbox One, Microsoft's first new console in eight years."The response we have seen is nothing short of incredible," Sony computer entertainment chief executive Andrew House told the Gamescom industry conference in Germany.Both companies are gambling that, nearly two decades after the 1994 arrival of the first PlayStation, gaming enthusiasts are still prepared to invest in new consoles and the boxed titles to play on them.Games designed for mobile phones, tablets and laptops are increasingly drawing consumers away from consoles, with titles such as Angry Birds, Farmville and the Candy Crush saga among the biggest hits of recent years.A new console is no guarantee of success, as Nintendo discovered last Christmas. Despite having the market to itself by launching the Wii U a full year ahead of its rivals' latest offerings, Nintendo failed to capitalise on its lead. The Wii U is now being outsold by its predecessor, the Wii.The PlayStation 4, which debuts in the United States on 15 November, will help buyers save money by offering unrestricted access to pre-owned games, which means Sony gamers can sell titles to each other or lend them to friends. Disc-based games will not need an online connection to work, and free or third party services like online chat and Netflix will not be locked behind a PlayStation subscription paywall.Computer games publisher Electronic Arts predicted a return to form for disc-based games. "We actually see growth this year in our plan for physical boxed games. The concept that physical media is dead is completely erroneous at this point," said Peter Moore, chief operating officer.
One of the regular criticisms of Android in general (and its Google Play app store in particular) is that people don't spend money on apps there.A new report by research firm IDC and analytics company App Annie undermines that with its claim that Google Play generated more spending on games in the second quarter of this year than Nintendo and Sony's gaming handhelds combined.The report – Worldwide Portable Game Consumer Spending – also claims that game spending on iOS and Android combined was four times the amount spent on games for 3DS, DS/DSi, PS Vita and PSP games during the three-month period.Note: these figures only cover the Google Play store for Android, so do not include games sold through Amazon's Appstore or the growing number of independent Android app stores in countries like China.A big surprise? Not if you've been following thefinancial results of games publishers like Electronic Arts. In the same quarter, EA sold $12m of games for Sony handhelds and $9m for Nintendo handhelds – $21m combined, versus $113m from mobile phones and tablets.IDC and App Annie's report notes that games accounted for more than 30% of app downloads and more than 70% of app revenues on iOS' App Store and Android's Google Play in the second quarter, and adds that the latter's games revenues continue to be dominated by sales in Japan and South Korea.Data from elsewhere indicates that Google Play is growing fast. Another analytics firm, Distimo, estimated recently thatGoogle Play app revenues had grown 67%in the six months between February and June 2013, compared to 15% for iOS app revenues.An earlier report by App Annie claimed that in the second quarter of 2013,Google Play generated 10% more app downloads than the App Store, but that Apple's store made 2.3 times the revenues than Google's.Yet another analytics firm, Flurry – there is something of a battle among these companies to see who can release the most useful data – said this month that it is tracking576m active Android smartphones and tablets, and 397m active iOS devices.For all the criticisms of Android's high levels of piracy and a perceived reluctance to pay for games by its users, sheer scale is turning Google's OS into a significant handheld gaming platform.Some companies are already making dedicated games devices running Android, including handhelds like theNvidia Shieldand micro-consoles that connect to televisions likeOuya,GameStick,GamePopandMad Catz's Project M.O.J.O.Google has also beentipped to launch its own-brand games consolerunning Android, with the Wall Street Journal reporting earlier this year that such a device is being developed in the expectation that Apple has similar ambitions for TV-based gaming.Even combined, however, Android and iOS are still some way from challenging console game sales. Research firm Newzoo has predicted thatsmartphones and tablet games will generate $12.3bn of revenues in 2013, versus $30.6bn for consoles – although the latter figure includes handhelds.
If you've been the parent of a preschool-age child in the UK in the last five years, you're likely to be already familiar withMister Maker, the arts and crafts TV show that airs on CBeebies.Phil Gallagher plays the title character, who folds, sticks and sprinkles his way through a succession of projects. The BAFTA-nominated show has spawned merchandise, magazines and live shows, but its latest spin-off is an app.Released for iPhone and iPad earlier this month by P2 Games,Mister Maker – Let's Make It!takes features and characters from the show and applies them to digital artworks."The TV show is a mixture of a quite old-fashioned style of entertainment – at its core it's an arts and crafts show – and very modern elements," says Gallagher."You have the traditional aspect of a presenter standing behind a desk teaching different artistic techniques to children, but there's also a lot of comedy and CGI within the show. The app is a natural progression: we're moving with the times."Like hisCBeebies colleague Justin Fletcher, Gallagher is impressed by the speed at which tablets and apps have caught on with parents and young children in recent years, but sees it as a logical move that their favourite TV brands should follow them onto these new devices."The way really young children can use these devices constantly astounds us," he says. "It's good that we can bring the app to our fans in such a simple, attractive and entertaining way. We've tried to make it really clear, really visual, and really simple and easy to pick up as well."Children's apps have their critics, with two main lines of argument. First: they're just digital babysitters used by parents shirking the responsibility of, well, parenting. Second: they're diverting kids away from non-digital activities: books, art, the great outdoors and so on.My instinct – and personal experience – suggests neither is inevitable. Apps (like TV) can be a useful distraction when a parent has to get something done: from making dinner to surviving a long journey.And on the physical versus digital issue, if overseen properly apps simply fit into the wider spread of play and learning, capable of complementing or even sparking other forms of activity once the device is switched off.Again, just like TV. "We've always hoped that in addition to watching our show, we'll inspire the little ones to continue the fun after it has ended," says Gallagher, of Mister Maker's ambitions on that score."Playing on the app is one way you can do that, particularly on the go." My own two sons have shown no less desire to create a mighty mess making things in the real world since doing so in the Mister Maker app, too.The Mister Maker app has been released for iPhone and iPadFrom a business standpoint, the Mister Maker app is exciting for parent company Zodiak Media, due to its global release on Apple's App Store.The show is a global brand already, broadcast in more than 100 countries. In between filming, Gallagher has spent the last 3-4 years on tour in countries across south-east Asia, where Mister Maker has a fervent fanbase."I'll never forget the live shows we did in Indonesia, where we did two shows in one day in a huge shopping centre in Djakarta, and attracted nearly 15,000 people," says Gallagher.The global popularity is reflected in the next series of Mister Maker, which is due to air in the UK later this year. Mister Maker Around The World has been filmed in locations including Sydney, Hong Kong, Cape Town and Rio."We wanted it to be a progression, and to offer something different and new to our audience. Mister Maker has always been inspired by the world around him, whether that's a tree or a river outside, or slipping on a banana skin and dropping a milkshake," says Gallagher."That's what the Around The World show is about: there are elements of comedy, but a lot of the inspirations have come from the different countries that we've visited, and the amazing things we've filmed."There's also a new prop: the last series' Maker Mobile car has been parked in storage, replaced by a "magical suitcase" that turns into a making table."We've been lucky enough to set it up in some of the most iconic places in the world: Lion's Head in Cape Town, the Vista Chinesa in Rio, Kowloon Harbour in Hong Kong, Sydney Opera House," says Gallagher. "Some of the backdrops are absolutely breathtaking."But the conversation ends with more talk about how the new app is designed to get parents and children creating artworks together, rather than babysitting the children while parents do something else.Gallagher says the most rewarding moments on the show have come when making things that he himself made as a child with his grandfather. It's those memories that inspired him to get into children's television, as much as any particular shows he watched."I used to watch arts and crafts shows, or something like Blue Peter where there was an element of craft within it," he says."But although I think about the programmes that I watched, it's the time I spent with my grandad and my parents having fun and making things that were the most rewarding moments. That's why this is a real dream job for me."
Apple is set to launch itsiTunes Radiostreaming-music service in the US in September, with brands including McDonald's, Pepsi and Nissan among its advertisers.Announced in June at the company's WWDC event, iTunes Radio's exact launch date has not yet been announced by Apple, beyond promising a debut in "Fall" as part of the release of the company's new iOS 7 software for its iPhone, iPad and iPod touch devices.Advertising industry site AdAge claims thatSeptember will be the US launch for iTunes Radio, though, which claims McDonald's, Pepsi, Nissan and Procter &amp; Gamble have committed to 12-month campaigns ranging in cost from "high single-digit millions of dollars to tens of millions of dollars".Its report claims that these plus one or two more brands will have exclusive deals for their industries until the end of 2013, before iTunes Radio adverts are opened up more widely to brands who agree to spend at least $1m with Apple.Ads are expected to run across iPhones, iPads, computers (within iTunes) and on televisions via the Apple TV set-top box, with listeners played one audio ad every 15 minutes and one video ad every hour, although iTunes Radio will be ad-free for people who pay for Apple's iTunes Match cloud music service.iTunes Radio will be US-only at launch, with not even a vague launch date confirmed for the service to roll out to the UK and other countries. "We're starting in the US, and we'll be adding other countries over time," said Apple's senior vice president of internet software and services Eddy Cue when he announced the service in June.iTunes Radio will not be a direct competitor for streaming music services like Spotify, Deezer, Rhapsody and Rdio. It will not provide on-demand access for people to choose individual songs and albums to listen to.Instead, it will compete directly with "personal radio" services like Pandora in the US, with listeners able to create streaming stations of music based on individual artists, songs and genres, or choose from those curated by Apple and guest artists.Pandora is the most successful service in this space, reaching 71.2m active listeners in July 2013, and accounting for just over 7% of total US radio listening during that month, according to the company'smonthly audience metrics.In its last full financial year, which ended on 31 January 2013,Pandora reported revenues of $427.1m(£272.3m), with advertising accounting for $375.2m of those revenues. 79% of the company's listening happens on mobile devices, hinting at the potential for iTunes Radio, but also the threat it may pose to Pandora.Personal radio-like features are becoming standard elements in the on-demand streaming services, though.Rdio's recent launch of its Stations featurewas just the latest example, while Spotify's personal radio features are available for free in the US through its mobile apps, to attract people to its full, subscription-based service.Meanwhile, another soon-to-launch digital music service,Beats Music, is making curated music playlists a key feature, fulfilling a similar role to the personalised stations on iTunes Radio, Pandora and other services.GigaOm reports that Beats Music – an offshoot of headphones brand Beats – is getting artists and freelance music writers tocreate "thousands of playlists" lasting up to 70 minutesready for its launch later in the year.The closest direct equivalent to iTunes Radio in terms of features, however, is theNokia Musicapp that is preloaded on that company's Windows Phone smartphones. That service is ad-free, however, with the business model a combination of helping to sell more handsets, and persuading some users to upgrade to the subscription-based Nokia Music+ version.
Facebook may be reaching 1.15 billion people a month, but the social network has grander ambitions to connect many more people. The main barrier: whether they have internet access at all.Now chief executive Mark Zuckerberg is spearheading an initiative –internet.org– that aims to ensure they do. Facebook is one of its founding partners alongside Samsung, Qualcomm, Ericsson, Nokia, Opera and MediaTek.The body's goals involve collaborating on technologies to reduce the cost of internet access; make apps that are more efficient in their data usage; and form partnerships with local operators and companies on new business models for providing internet access."There are huge barriers in developing countries to connecting and joining the knowledge economy," said Zuckerberg, as he announced the new alliance."Internet.org brings together a global partnership that will work to overcome these challenges, including making internet access available to those who cannot currently afford it."Several big names from the technology world are conspicuous by their absence from internet.org's founding partners: Google, Apple, Microsoft and Twitter to name but four with a keen interest in these issues.There are no telecoms providers either, although the internet.org founders expect mobile operators to "play leading roles within the initiative", with hopes of persuading non-governmental organisations and academic experts to join in the future."Our industry is now at an exciting inflection point where internet connectivity is becoming more affordable and efficient for consumers, while still offering them great experiences," said Nokia chief executive Stephen Elop. "Universal internet access will be the next great industrial revolution."Alongside the announcement, Zuckerberg published a white paper –Is Connectivity a Human Right?– expanding on the reasons for launching internet.org, but also getting in early with his defence against questions about Facebook's commercial motivations."The unfair economic reality is that those already on Facebook have way more money than the rest of the world combined, so it may not actually be profitable for us to serve the next few billion people for a very long time, if ever," he wrote. "But we believe everyone deserves to be connected."The white paper also set out Facebook's definition of "basic internet services" that are most suitable to be provided for free, including data costs. They include messaging, social networks, search engines and Wikipedia, but not video, streaming music, high-resolution photos and app downloads.The report also hints at some of Facebook's aims to tie its social network deeper into the businesses of mobile operators, including zero-rating data traffic – something it's already done with its Facebook Zero scheme – but also suggesting deeper ties in the developing world."Over time, we may be able to help improve some of the social infrastructure that is still nascent in many developing countries. The lack of credit infrastructure prevents operators from offering post-paid models that could enable them to make longer-term investments in their customers.And while operators know some information about their customers, the pre-paid model prevents them from knowing who their customers are. Giving people the ability to link their Facebook or other accounts with operators could help solve these problems and make it easier to provide better service."That approach is unlikely to find favour in countries where people are concerned about their internet use being monitored, given Facebook's emphasis on real-world identities.There is also the risk that internet.org's efforts will effectively be competing with Google's activities around bringing internet access to developing countries.The company has its own zero-rating initiative called Free Zone – launchedmost recently with Bharti Airtel in India– providing free access to services including Google's search engine, Gmail webmail service and Google+ social network.Google is also exploring the idea of using a network of high-tech balloons –Project Loon– to provide internet access to "rural, remote and underserved areas", although the scheme recently drewcriticism from former Microsoft chief Bill Gates."When you're dying of malaria, I suppose you'll look up and see that balloon, and I'm not sure how it'll help you," Gates told Business Week in an interview about the work of his Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation. "When a kid gets diarrhoea, no, there's no website that relieves that."Zuckerberg has already responded to questions about whether internet.org's priorities are similarly skewed. "If you can afford a phone, I think it would be really good for you to have access to the internet," hetold the New York Times.
After Microsoft'sXbox One showcaseearlier in the day, Tuesday afternoon saw Electronic Arts hosting the world's gaming press at the grittily industrial Palladium building in Cologne.The company focused its Gamescom presentation on 10 new titles, although none were completely fresh announcements, and there were few surprises for the hundreds of journalists in the venue or the millions of gamers watching the live feed.Still, there were plenty of intriguing details on forthcoming next-gen console titles, as well as snippets such as the fact that Peggle 2 is coming exclusively to Xbox One first, and that Need for Speed Rivals features a dynamic open-world system named Alldrive that combines single and multiplayer into one seamless experience, complete with an undercover cop mode that lets police players blend in with their racer foes (developer Ghost also assured reporters at its Gothenburg office that it was impossible to play the game the same way twice,thanks to its randomised mission system.Oh, and the Xbox One version of third-person action adventure Plants vs Zombies: Garden Warfare – which again is set to premiere on the new machine – will feature a 'boss mode' that lets players command the entire battlefield using a second screen or Kinect motion controls. Second screens are going to be big news, in case you hadn't realised by now.But anyway, here are the five key messages that we took out of the conference:Sims 4 is all about emotionDue out next year, the latest title in the long-running virtual soap opera is subtitled 'come to life' and introduces an era of emotion-based gameplay. Through a new tech named SmartSim, players are able to customise and control highly intelligent, complex characters – and will have direct control over their emotional experiences.It seems the action will revolve more heavily than ever around creating interesting social situations for your Sims. In the press conference demo, Rachel Franklin, vice-president of developer Maxis, got three of her housemates into a love triangle, manipulating them into various underhand tricks to foil each other's chat-up routines. Household interiors can also be intricately designed to provoke certain feelings and emotions. Put up a few romantic paintings, and your sims will act accordingly.It seems that both home and character customisation have been simplified, allowing players easily to construct quite complex buildings, while changing the physical features of Sims merely by selecting and tweaking them – as though manipulating clay. It looks like a lot of fun, and may well attract a new generation of users to the 100m selling series.Dragon Age Inquisition is a little like Skyrim meets FableWe didn't learn much more about BioWare's latest fantasy adventure, just confirmation that it'll take place in a vast open world drawn by the Frostbite 3 engine and filled with forests, wastelands and rolling plains.The action kicks off in the wake of an 'event', that unleashes demonic forces on the land. The player takes the role of an inquisitor, a powerful leader with command of armed forces, who has moral choices to make about the realm.According to Bioware, there will be situations where the player has to decide whether to save or sacrifice citizens, perhaps stepping in to save a burning village, or letting it perish. Inquisitors also have AI agents who can be sent out on missions, and player characters are completely definable from a selection of recognisable RPG races and classes. So yes, a combination of freedom and morality, then, all bound within a typically tight and focused Bioware story...Battlefield 4 is all about the 'Levolution'What is it about next-gen games and slightly awkward technical terms? We've already grappled with Forza 5's 'drivatar' concept, now we have 'Levolution', which describes the dynamic and responsive environments in EA Dice's latest Battlefield venture. Now players will be able to manipulate the landscape, cutting the power in buildings, then switching to night sights to pick off floundering enemies; or perhaps closing security gates to restrict access to key strongholds.There are also larger, more dramatic possibilities – teams are able to flood levels and then send in squads in amphibious vehicles; in the Cologne demo, on a map named Paracel Storm, one side even uses the swell of the ocean to ground an attack ship, thereby placing the enemy's inland defences within range of the craft's massive guns.We also got to see the 64-player Obliteration mode, in which two sides compete to reach a bomb that randomly generates on the map. Once secured it needs to be taken to the opposing base and detonated. The current-gen beta will launch in early October and the Battlefield 4 Premium membership service will provide early access to the five map packs as well as new modes, weapons and vehicles.Fifa 14 on next-gen is all about the theatre of footballEA Sports isn't messing about with the latest Fifa iterations: 33 leagues, more than 600 clubs and 16,000 players. A co-op season mode allowing players to compete alongside pals in ranked online play, an extended Match Day feature tying in the experience ever more closely to the real season and its many injuries, suspensions and dramas.The publisher also revealed that seasons and Ultimate Team sessions started on current 10 machines will be transferable to next-gen consoles. A current-gen demo will hit the web on 10 September.But we also saw glimpses of the next-generation version of the game, which will apparently emphasise the whole theatrical experience of modern football – including the build-up. Intricately modelled stadia will feature in dramatic broadcast-inspired flyovers; a new game director mode will use 100 cameras to capture replay action; and the match flow system will bring the atmosphere around the game to life, including players interacting with ball boys and more reactive crowd chants.Okay, it's all peripheral eye-candy, the visual equivalent of the game's many team and player name licenses, but it should add to the authenticity of the simulation – although they'll probably stop short of crowd members chucking coins and players berating ball boys for not returning the ball quickly enough.Titanfall brings epic narrative to the multiplayer shooterRespawn's hugely promising sci-fi blaster pitches rebel militia forces against the powerful Interstellar Manufacturing Corporation in vast swarming battlefields. We've seen chunks of the game at E3, but for Cologne, EA wanted to show off the epic nature of the combat, the environment and the scenario.Although a multiplayer-focused title, Titanfall will feature cinematic moments and grand set-pieces akin to a single-player campaign, all housed within the chaotic online face-offs. The demo shown at the conference was of the new Attrition mode and took place in the Angel City map, a vast urban sprawl of skyscrapers, underpasses and neon signposts.What it highlights is the sheer verticality of the environments; soldiers use jetpacks to blast onto rooftops, and run along the side of buildings to get above the field of action. We also get to see more of the asymmetrical nature of the combat, with the massive mechs pounding over the landscape as teeny troops blast them with rocket launchers.It looks like players can seamlessly switch in and out of piloting these robotic beasts, and once in, priorities switch between taking on other Titan mechs or swatting solders.The demo ends with the militia falling back to a dropship and evacuating. It's pulverising stuff. Built, lest we forget, by many senior ex-pats from Call of Duty creator Infinity Ward, it possibly tells us things about where mainstream first-person shooters are going next.The future, it turns out, is really big, really noisy and really vertical.• Keith Stuart travelled to Gamescom on a press trip with other journalists, with accommodation and transport organised by Electronic Arts.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamForced Exposure &gt;&gt; GroklawPamela Jones:I loved doing Groklaw, and I believe we really made a significant contribution. But even that turns out to be less than we thought, or less than I hoped for, anyway. My hope was always to show you that there is beauty and safety in the rule of law, that civilization actually depends on it. How quaint.If you have to stay on the Internet, my research indicates that the short term safety from surveillance, to the degree that is even possible, is to use a service like Kolab for email, which is located in Switzerland, and hence is under different laws than the US, laws which attempt to afford more privacy to citizens. I have now gotten for myself an email there, p.jones at mykolab.com in case anyone wishes to contact me over something really important and feels squeamish about writing to an email address on a server in the US.What's odd is that there wasn't anything about what Groklaw did or published which suggested it would attract any NSA attention at all. But that's the explanation she's given.The domain registration runs out in October 2014: how long will it, and the comments, stay active?Patent trolls: Tracking down the litigious invention owners &gt;&gt; BBC NewsRory Cellan-Jones:At a Mexican restaurant in Dallas, Texas, half a dozen lawyers are talking about patents. The conversation turns to the activities of the so-called trolls, and they compete for the craziest examples of the patents they use in lawsuits."It is the guy with this scanner patent," says one."They claim that anyone who uses a scanner to scan documents, email the documents, owes them a royalty of $1,000 [£645] per employee."Horrible irony that this programme went out on the day that Groklaw closed.Taiwan market: Retailers not stocking as much inventory for back-to-school season as in previous years &gt;&gt; DigitimesWith the PC industry suffering from a downturn, channel retailers are active about offering new promotions in Taiwan, but their inventory preparation for the back-to-school season in 2013 is about 20-30% lower than that of previous years, according to sources from the channel.Sign 'o' the times.1998: Searched at the UK border for internet porn &gt;&gt; Ken CukierCukier, now The Economist's data editor, was then working for Red Herring magazine:"Is that a computer in your bag?""Yes.""Does it have Internet on in?"Here, I confess, I really didn't know how to answer. What does one say to a question like that?? I was struck dumb. "I use the computer to access the Internet, yes," I said, rather proud of myself for my accuracy.Wonder if the questions have gotten better in the past 15 years.How to save the troubled graphene transistor &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewYou didn't know the graphene transistor was troubled? But it is:Unlike conventional semiconductors, graphene cannot be switched off, a problem that threatens to scupper its use in future generations of transistors. Now physicists think they've found a solution.May take another decade to be used, but you read it here first.Important security update and password reset &gt;&gt; League of LegendsThe security of your information is critically important to us, so we're really sorry to share that a portion of our North American account information was recently compromised.What we know: usernames, email addresses, salted password hashes, and some first and last names were accessed. This means that the password files are unreadable, but players with easily guessable passwords are vulnerable to account theft.Additionally, we are investigating that approximately 120,000 transaction records from 2011 that contained hashed and salted credit card numbers have been accessed.Apple credits security researcher Balic, but not for vulnerability related to Developer Center &gt;&gt; TechCrunchMatthew Panzarino:The vulnerability reported directly below [Ibrahim] Balic's entry [which related to iAd] was credited to 7dscan.com and SCANV and is annotated with Apple's Developer Center address. It seems far more likely that these two researchers are the ones who discovered the remote code execution vulnerability in the Developer Center which caused the outage. For researchers who are in this game, the credit from a company is the reward, so they most likely reported it to Apple. Once it had been confirmed, Apple was worried enough to take the Dev Center down to fix the problem.Fits withwhat we reported previously: Balic's claims didn't fit with his claim to have hacked developer details.New features ahead: Google Maps and Waze apps better than ever &gt;&gt; Google LatLong blogUsers of Google Maps for Mobile will now benefit from real time incident reports from Waze users. This means when Wazers report accidents, construction, road closures and more on Waze, the updates will also appear on the Google Maps app for Android and iOS in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, France, Germany, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Switzerland, UK and the US.The Waze community will also benefit from two new features. First, the Android and iOS versions of the app have been updated with Google Search. Wazers will now have access to even more search results when navigating. Google Search joins other search providers making it easy to find favorite businesses and any local address.The FTC did start an investigation into this merger. Google doesn't seem too troubled. Will Waze's data supply to Apple's Maps continue, though? (Thanks #modelportfolio2003 for the link.)A new fingerprint sensor patent from Apple surfaces in Europe &gt;&gt; Patently AppleIn July Patently Apple posted a report revealing one of the patent applications that Apple gained in their acquisition of AuthenTec. Today, Patently Apple reveals a second patent application that Apple gained in their acquisition that was filed in Europe. There were a few interesting findings in this patent. One of them reveals that Apple's future fingerprint scanner has a security feature built-in that will be able to sense "live tissue" so as to reduce spoofing.This is starting to look like a thing now.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Twitter has denied claims by a hacker to have accessed the user details and passwords of a significant number of accounts on the microblogging network, saying that there has been no compromise of its system.Instead it is understood that attack by "Mauritania Attacker", who is in based in the African desert nation, acquired some details for accounts via a third-party app which has since been blocked from accessing Twitter's systems.A report on the Indian technology site Techwormsaidthat the hacker had "leaked thousands of Twitter account credentials… hijacked from Twitter" onto Zippyshare, a file-sharing service.The hacker claimed to have access to Twitter's database - which would be a serious compromise. However Techworm reported that the details grabbed by the hacker contains Twitter IDs and nicknames, as well as codes produced by the OAuth system to verify apps on the company's system. Those are not sufficient to log in to Twitter, though they could be used in some cases to formulate a further attack on the connected accounts.GigaOmreportedthat 15,000 details were leaked by the hacker.A Twitter spokesperson said: "We have investigated the situation and can confirm that no Twitter accounts were compromised."The hacker claims tolead a hacking group called AnonGhostand to be defending the dignity of Muslims through his hack. The group is reckoned to have been behind the hacks of more than 10,000 sites in the past seven months, but none is as high-profile as Twitter.
It's Wednesday.
Where will the next wave of great sitcoms come from? Traditional broadcasters, perhaps. Netflix or Amazon even? Or perhaps YouTube, with its $300m Original Channels initiative?The answer is likely all of the above: writers and directors of scripted comedy have more ways to find an audience than ever before, and while many still see established TV channels as the likeliest route, some are forging their paths online.One example isMyMusic, a sitcom about a music production company – it's pitched as The Office meets 30 Rock, with bands – that notched up 30m views for its 34-episode first season last year.The second series kicks off today, now hosted on the main channel of its creatorsThe Fine Brothers– producers Benny and Rafi Fine – who boast 5.6m subscribers and 987m total views for their shows, including Kids react and Emo Dad."We've been doing this for 10 years online. We're not bloggers, we make shows," says Benny Fine, in an interview with The Guardian ahead of the new season's premiere episode."It's very rare for the internet to have a successful narrative show like MyMusic. It's really a case study for what is the future of the sitcom."That includes transmedia elements stretching the storylines and characters into other parts of the web. There are social media accounts for the characters, aspin-off music news blog("one part BuzzFeed, one part The Onion"), podcasts, extra interactive Q&amp;A shows on YouTube, and concerts in the real world hosted by MyMusic actors staying in character."That's part of the MyMusic idea: things that work online are the things that don't stop. If you go off the air for a long time, there's a concern about losing certain fans and momentum," says Fine."Last season, we had more than 250k people following these fictional people on social networks and interacting with them as if they were real. It allows us to be a real-time sitcom, which is the future of things like scripted programming: finding ways to engage people so they spend more time in your show."The new series was filmed at theYouTube Space LA, 41,000 square feet of studios opened by YouTube this summer for the use of creators averaging 100,000 monthly views or more."We've upped the game in terms of production value. We're taking it further and making it as big as it can possibly be in terms of production designs and the technical side of things," says Fine, who stresses that the writing has stepped up a notch too."With this being the second season with a huge fanbase, we're able to dive much more into stories and other elements. It looks like an absurd comedy with lots of heart, which it'll always be, but this season is going to surprise some fans in terms of where we'll take the show."As creators funded by the Original Channels initiative, the Fine Brothers would be expected to be fairly positive about YouTube's role as a platform for new shows."It's been an incredible last 15-18 months. YouTube is still the place where there's an actual audience in a quantifiable way anywhere online," says Fine.However, he admits to having had low expectations about YouTube's potential for the kind of content he and his brother wanted to make when they joined the site in 2007."A few years ago, it was solely about personalities and bloggers, and we thought we were never going to be able to rise to the top on this site, because we made shows, and that wasn't how this operated," he says."But it's shifted more towards series in the last couple of years, to the point where one of our shows – Kids React – now has three spin-offs. Here we are now with four versions of a format, and there's a real audience here in ways there hasn't been before."The Fine Brothers – Benny and Rafi – on the set of MyMusicIn some quarters, YouTube's growth and its move into original content is causing tension about its likely impact on the traditional television world – something parent company Google has done its bit to fuel by regularly talking about how young people in particular are watching more YouTube and less TV.Fine declines to pick a side, pointing again to the brothers' filmmaking background, and suggesting that neither YouTube nor TV has to "win" in the near future."We've always felt kind of in the middle. Even right now we're in the process of having television conversations and thinking about wherever this is going to evolve to," says Fine."Whatever television is will probably still exist: it's two separate mediums that can be used in very similar ways, but both will exist and both will still be very valuable. As a creator, I want my content to be where people can watch it. I don't think either medium is going away."He thinks there are plenty of opportunities for younger writers and directors with ideas that might work as online series, although Fine's main advice to them is to immerse themselves in the world of online video to understand what's working already."Really study what types of formats have been working online that you resonate with: get a feel for what works in the current ecosystem of online video. Sometimes that passion-project you really want to do is not the way to start," he says."Come up with formats that are sustainable and easy for you to produce, and start gathering an audience for yourself. If you start right away with the long-form thing, the audience won't be there. You need to get your feet off the ground."Fine adds that there are a growing number of channel owners – including the Fine Brothers – actively looking to give new talent their first break in the business. "We are a growing studio that needs content," he says.But before snapping up more shows, there's the second season of MyMusic to launch, with all those transmedia offshoots. The show may have been made in America, but Fine hopes it will find fans across the Atlantic too."There are huge influences on MyMusic from British comedy. The IT Crowd is an inspiration to us," says Fine. "When we hired writers, we forced them all to watch it! It's that combination of very heightened characters, but still reality-based inside that world."Does the show's second season live up to its inspiration? The first episode is embedded below for you to make up your own mind:
The watch may be a portable device with a long history, but it is now becoming the technology battleground of the future. Samsung is expected to unveil a smartwatch in two weeks, and leaks suggest it will have a camera in the strap, speakers in the clasp, and sensors that detect when it is being looked at.With Apple's next big product expected to be an internet-connected timepiece, the South Korean manufacturer is dealing the first blow in the war for the wrist. Reports suggest Samsung's Galaxy Gear watch will be seen for the first time on 4 September, with launch events expected in Berlin and New York.Prototypes sent to developers creating applications for the digital device say the finished product will have an accelerometer that switches the screen on when the wrist is moved up towards the eye, theGigaOMwebsite revealed. The movement will also fire up apps installed on the phone, allowing downtime in between moments of activity so that the device conserves power.The device will measure more than time. Taking a cue from Nike's popular Fuel wristband, which monitors distances walked and calories burned during the owner's daily activity, the Gear is expected to help users count steps or monitor their heart rate, technology which Samsung has already explored with its smartphones.Developers said the Gear would have a touch-sensitive, full-colour screen using similar organic light emitting diode (OLED) technology to Samsung's top of the range phones.GigaOM predicts the display will be square, and 2.5 inches on the diagonal, or three inches including the case.However, patents filed by Samsung in South Korea, reported by local websiteMoveplayer, illustrated a long flexible rectangular screen which curves around the wrist. Samsung began demonstrating flexible full colour screens at trade fairs this year. At January's CES gadget show in Las Vegas one of the company's executives showed a plastic screen that could be bent into a U shape, promising the technology would soon be in commercial use.Running on Google's Android software, developers say the Gear will respond to touch and swipe gestures just like a phone, though it is unlikely to be able to connect directly with the internet or mobile phone networks. Instead, it will rely on Bluetooth 4.0 short range radio technology, which will connect it to Samsung smartphones and tablets, and will require the watch to be within a few metres of a paired device in order to receive an internet signal.One of its most appealing uses is likely to be displaying the emails, text messages and names of callers being received by the smartphone without the need to take the larger device out of a handbag or pocket. Tightly linked to Samsung's other gadgets, the technology is reportedly able to automatically open on a smartphone the last message seen on the watch screen.Samsung first officially confirmed it was working on a watch in March, when Lee Young Hee, an executive in the mobile business, said: "We've been preparing the watch product for so long. We are working very hard to get ready for it. We are preparing products for the future, and the watch is definitely one of them."Tech consultancy Canalys has predicted smartwatches will explode from 330,000 units shipped last year to more than 5 million in 2014. But the idea is not a new one, and the products released to date have held limited appeal for consumers. In 2010 Sony Ericsson created Live View, which connected to Android phones to serve up emails, texts and incoming calls. Similar functions are managed by the independently produced Pebble smartwatch, but it has received mixed reviews. As long ago as 2009 Samsung itself released a watch with a touch screen that could make calls. Called theS9110, it went on sale in a limited number of markets.
Christine Quinn took a stand against street harassment Monday as a New York-based advocacy organization launched a tool to digitally report offenses to the city council.The Democratic mayoral candidate and current city council speaker held a press conference in Brooklyn's Bushwick neighborhood to help launch an improved app byHollaback, which will allow victims of street harassment to report incidents via smartphone. The city, which helped fund the app, hopes to work with Hollaback to create a database of incidents and identify problematic areas."We're here today to let New Yorkers – and particularly women and girls – know that people who violate women either by their actions or words won't be able to hide anymore," Quinn said. "We will know who they are, what they do, where they do it, and we will put it to an end."The Hollaback smartphone app, available for iPhone and Android devices, can allow a victim to anonymously report an incident with just a few clicks. Though reporting an incident to Hollaback does not constitute a police report – that will have to be made separately – the app does record details about incidents, including where they took place and what was said by the harasser. But information from the app can be sent to the New York City council, and specifically to the council member from the district where the harassment took place. New York's city council allocated $20,000 last year towards creating an expanded version of the app.Hollaback aims to change how women, girls and members of the LGBTQ community report street harassment, a problem that, for some, has become endemic to living in New York City as well asother major citiesacross the globe such as London, Beijing and Chicago. Amy, a 23-year-old accountant who asked to be identified only by her first name, went so far as to relocate from Harlem to Flushing, Queens, in order to avoid street harassment.Amy encountered consistent harassment from a group of men, who over the course of several months progressed from asking for her name and phone number to asking her back to their apartments. "I wouldn't want to go home because I didn't want to run into anyone who would bother me," she said.  "And when I was home I didn't want to leave, because I didn't want to encounter people who would bother me."Hollaback seeks to empower women like Amy and members of the LGBTQ community against their harassers and attackers by giving them the chance to document each incident. Smartphone users can use the app (see below), while those without iPhones or Android devices canreport incidents online.Hollaback and New York City officials hope that the data gleaned from reports made via the app will help the city to identify problematic areas and lead to improvements specific to each neighborhood."We don't know exactly what's going in the neighborhoods because we don't have enough of a data set. The goal of the app is to improve the data set," Hollaback executive director Emily May told the Guardian on Monday.Edward Wardrip, 23, a film editor based in Manhattan, said the app was a good idea for preventing street harassment, but that he wouldn't immediately think to reach for it in the middle of an incident. Wardrip, who is gay, has on occasion been followed and had slurs like "faggot" shouted at him on the streets."Having an app that calls attention to the fact that there's a lot of progress that still needs to be made, and having that on my phone, feels like a constant reminder of that and that you're still not safe," Wardrip told the Guardian. "Overall, the city feels safe to me, but there are certain places you don't go at certain times. People know that."For Quinn, the issue of LGBTQ safety is important both personally and politically. If elected, she would be the first female and first openly gay mayor of New York City; that would make Kim Catullo the first gay first lady. Quinn has made strong pushes both for the city's female vote and LGBTQ vote, though recent polling data from Marist and Quinnipiac show no real gender gap between men and women who support her. Some members of the LGBTQ community, likeQueers against Quinnhave gone so far as to say Quinn is exploiting the community to win votes.And for voters like Wardrip, Quinn's support for LGBT causes might not be a deciding factor in casting his ballot.He isn't alone."Having an out mayor representing our our city would be a great message that we are moving forward. But it also doesn't feel like that much of a deciding factor because I don't think it's possible to elect an official here that doesn't support LGBT rights."
Like its slow and clunking Terminators, Space Hulk has to carry a lot of weight. As its own loading screens are at pains to remind you, this is the first Space Hulk videogame in 17 years – which matters because in its boardgame form Space Hulk is a classic. Such status is double-edged, but it means the design underlying this is a streamlined masterpiece.Space Hulk is a two-player game. One side controls Blood Angel Terminators, hefty supersoldiers equipped with ranged and melee combat weapons. The other controls numerous Genestealers, slavering monsters red in tooth and claw that are deadly in close combat. The Terminators have a simple goal on any given map, often simply getting across it, and the Genestealers want to kill them.This is asymmetrical strategy at its most elegant, and crucial to how things work is the environment – the interior of the titular Space Hulk itself, a gigantic and long-abandoned vessel. The levels are constructed from long corridors that connect to small, boxy rooms, a claustrophobic warren of sightlines and dark corners. The tight surroundings mean Terminators inch along in single file, ponderously turning at corners and covering every possible angle, while Genestealers try to surround and ambush.Each side's distinct feel comes down to how they move. The Terminators generally have fewer 'command points' available in any given turn, which means as a group they advance slowly and en-masse – always with brothers on 'overwatch', ready to unleash withering fire on any Genestealer they see.The hammer is my favourite weapon, especially its lovely squelchy sound effectThe Genestealers may not have ranged weapons, but they can cover more distance in every turn and until they're seen are represented as 'blips' on the map. The blips are key to everything: the Terminator player knows there are Genestealers at point X, but not how many there might be. The atmosphere this creates is like the best bits of Aliens, a creeping escalation until one Genestealer breaks cover and all hell breaks loose.There's a substantial singleplayer campaign for your £23, and more impressive than the number of levels is the fiendish Genestealer AI. Space Hulk on 'hard' is a real challenge, and its enemies are expert at targeting the best-equipped Terminators, cutting off stragglers and forcing engagements.That said this is a game meant to be played with others, and is undoubtedly at its best when you know your opponent. Unfortunately on release the online was a dicey, with plenty of crashes and lost connections, but several patches have since been released and in the last few days games have been running smoothly– though perhaps a little slowly. Space Hulk is entirely faithful to the board game's mechanics, even to the extent of (automatically) rolling virtual dice for hit percentages, and this can make it feel clunky as a videogame.Aspects of this will come down to personal taste, particularly the plodding movement of the Terminators; they feel bulky, weighty, powerful and cumbersome. From a purely imaginative standpoint, this is great, but in practice it drags out simple manoeuvres and tests your patience.This isn't helped by frankly odd design decisions. As Terminators fire at Genestealers the game often decides to randomly switch between close-up shots of each, which not only shines too bright a light on some basic animations but can also deflate the tension. There are visual effects that really should be better, such as the Genestealers successfully attacking a Terminator. Don't take this to mean Space Hulk is an ugly game – the character models are gorgeous – but it is a slightly shonky one.Does a classic board game make for a good videogame? Photograph: Full ControlThose who have the best experience with Space Hulk will undoubtedly be those who already love the original –though this rule's not universal. There are certainly rough edges aplenty to be picked at, but also a deep love of the source material; everything from the voice-acting to the detail on gun barrels is steeped in that grim 40K atmosphere. The look and feel of this Space Hulk delights the boy in me, who long ago abandoned Games Workshop but never quite lost faith in the Imperium of Man.No matter how rosy the spectacles, however, this is a good-enough version of a classic game rather than a great one. So we return to that humblebrag of a loading screen. This is the first Space Hulk videogame in 17 years. When you think about it like that, perhaps its makers should have spent a few more months polishing it and released a slightly better one.• The game was reviewed on a PC
Microsoft has opened the major Gamescom gaming conference in Cologne with a series of announcements designed to boost the Xbox One's juddering PR machine. In a deal with Electronic Arts, customers in Europe who pre-order the console before Christmas will receive a free digital copy of Fifa 14. Those who have already pre-ordered an Xbox One will also get a digital copy of the popular sports sim.Furthermore, a tie-in with Activision will see a special European bundle package, featuring the Xbox One console and a copy of Call of Duty: Ghosts. The package, which includes as-yet unconfirmed bonus content, will be available exclusively through the Game retail chain in the UK. Ubisoft has also agreed to make special content available in the Xbox One version of its multiplayer online shooter, The Division.In a further attempt to attract fans of the Fifa franchise, the Xbox One version of Fifa 14 will feature legendary players in its popular Ultimate Team mode. The likes of Freddie Ljungberg, Ruud Gullit, Pelé, Patrick Vieira and Gary Lineker will also turn up in gold packs, at certain points through the season.Meanwhile, Microsoft has also announced more details of its self-publishing plans for indie developers on Xbox One. A new programme entitled ID@Xbox, will support smaller studios with events, forums and technical assistance – these developers will also have full access to the capabilities of the console including cloud services, Kinect and the Xbox Live toolset. It was initially suggested that indies would not be able to self-publish on the console, but a furious response from gamers and developers provokeda clarificationof the Xbox One set-up.During its press-only showcase in Cologne on Tuesday, Microsoft also confirmed Fable Legends, a new Xbox One exclusive addition to Lionhead's RPG series complete with four-player co-op; Smart Glass support allows one participant to take part as the enemy, using a second screen to direct forces against the main protagonists.Cobalt, the latest title from Minecraft creator, Mojang, is also coming to the console. Developed with Oxeye Game Studio, it's a co-op 2D platform shooter, with acrobatic robot characters.Microsoft has been playing catch-up with Sony after the poorly received introduction of the Xbox One console in May. The machine was originally heavily geared toward digital distribution with restrictions on pre-owned sales and daily online authentication. However, a backlash against the plans forceda major rethink, and a return to a more traditional retail model for software.Both PlayStation 4 and Xbox One are due out this winter – with the former set to retail for £349 and the latter at £429. It is likely the Fifa pre-order offer is being used as means of appeasing gamers put off by the Microsoft console's higher price tag.Industry pundits were expecting that launch details for the next-gen machines would be announced at Gamescom. So far, it's been quiet on that front. We'll have more news as the event goes on.
Should Apple be more scared of Samsung than it is of Google? That's the question posed bynew research on the Android marketby mobile analytics firm Flurry. Its conclusion: yes, perhaps it should.The study analysed a sample of 45,340 Android devices in May, breaking them down by device type (88% smartphones and 12% tablets) but also by manufacturer."Samsung is the dominant manufacturer of Android devices. Its phones represented 59% of the phones in our overall sample of Android phones, and its tablets represented 42% of the tablets in our sample," explained Flurry's Mary Ellen Gordon in a blog post.Flurry claims to be tracking 576m Android devices through its analytics and advertising tools, indicating 506.9m smartphones and 69.1m tablets – which in turn suggests Samsung has at least 299m active Android smartphones and 29m active Android tablets out there.Separate research into the iOS marketpublished by Flurry last week claimed it was tracking 397m active iOS devices split 72-28 between iPhone and iPad, with iPod touch not counted. That implies 285.8m active iPhones and 111.2m active iPads – figures that can be set alongside the Samsung stats.Samsung's lead in the smartphone market is well established now. Research firmGartner's recently-published figuresfor the second quarter of 2013 claimed Samsung sold 71.4m smartphones in that three-month period alone, taking a 31.7% share of all global smartphone sales.In recent times, Apple's senior executives have responded to Android's growth by shifting their attack strategy, including claiming that owners of iOS devices use them more."iPhone users use the iPhone 50 per cent more that Android users use their phones,"said chief executive Tim Cookduring his keynote speech at Apple's WWDC event in June, citing a study by another research firm, Experian.It's on exactly this point that Flurry's new report suggests Apple cannot be complacent about the threat posed by Samsung."Overall, owners of Samsung phones spent 14% more time using apps than owners of other Android phones and owners of Samsung tablets spent 10% more time using apps than owners of other Android tablets," wrote Gordon.Owners of Samsung devices don't just use apps more than the average Android owner; they're also more likely to fall into demographic profiles – mums, business travellers, social influencers etc – that are prized by advertisers."In those respects, they are more similar to owners of iOS devices than owners of other Android devices are," wrote Gordon.The report ends by suggesting that if Samsung can bump up its share of the tablet market while maintaining its lead in the smartphone space, it will supplant Google as the true rival to Apple."If they can do both, they will rule the Android Kingdom, and Samsung, rather than Google, will pose the greater threat to Apple."The suggestion is profoundly unshocking to anyone who's been following the smartphone market over the last couple of years, but Flurry's research is useful for another reason: the reminder that Android isn't one, unified threat to iOS.Samsung is one element; Amazon and its Kindle Fire (and possible smartphone plans) another; and the rise of local manufacturers' Android devices and associated app stores in China yet another.Understanding the figures, habits and demographic data for these individual prongs of the Android assault on Apple's smart devices, rather than simply viewing the market as an Apple v Google slugfest, is going to be increasingly important.
Free-to-play mobile games dominate the top-grossing charts on iOS and Android's app stores, but the freemium business model has been controversial too.Critics regularly attack games like Candy Crush Saga for a perceived aggressiveness in their use and promotion of in-app purchase, while mobilefranchises like Real Racingthat switch from paid to freemium have generated heated debate.One problem: by definition, the people who write comments and blog posts declaring that they don't play "evil" free-to-play games aren't the people who are spending money in those titles. What do those players think about freemium games?A report published by research firm EEDAR, and reported on by industry websitePocketGamer.biz, suggests most of them are pretty content, actually.The US company surveyed 3,000 mobile gamers for its newDeconstructing Mobile &amp; Tablet Gamingreport, including quizzing them on whether they felt they were "getting their money's worth" in the mobile game on which they'd spend the most money.Of those who'd spend between $5 and $20 on whatever game that was – for 22% of respondents it was Candy Crush Saga, while for 9% it was Clash of Clans – 84% said they felt they'd got their money's worth.86% of those who'd spent $20 or more on their top freemium game said they were satisfied, while the figures were 78% for those who'd spend $50 or more, and $67% for those who'd spent $100 or more.EEDAR also claims that a decent chunk of these people also play games on other platforms: those who'd spent $50 or more on a single mobile game spent an average of 34% of their gaming time on smartphones, 19% on tablets, 17% on consoles, 24% on PCs and 6% on gaming handhelds.EEDAR's senior analyst Patrick Walker tells PocketGamer.biz that the results appear to scotch a few myths about freemium gaming:"Critics of the free-to play-business model state that the model takes advantage of heavy spenders by leveraging impulsive buying behaviors rather than providing true gameplay value. However, when asked, the majority of heavy spenders endorse that they are satisfied with the purchases made in the mobile games on which they spend the most money.In addition, these heavy mobile spenders play on a broad variety of platforms, including consoles, and understand the value proposition supplied across different business models, and still choose to purchase microtransactions."The study doesn't give free-to-play gaming a spotless bill of health, though. Look at that satisfaction stat for people who'd spent $100 or more on a mobile game again: if 67% thought they'd got their money's worth, that's 33% who didn't.Understanding more about why a third of these highest-spenders should be a priority for publishers making free-to-play games, and they shouldn't be complacent about the 22% of $50-or-more spenders who were dissatisfied either.In-app purchases are proving very lucrative for mobile games publishers, with analysts expecting the boom to continue for the forseeable future. Research firm IDC and analytics company App Annie teamed up for a report in June predicting$12bn of global mobile games revenues in 2013, with 51% of those revenues coming from in-app purchases.Juniper Research recently predicted thatconsumer apps will be a $75bn market by 2017; that games will account for 32% of those revenues (or $24bn); and that paid-at-the-point-of-download apps will only account for a quarter of the overall total.Still, the debate this year about free-to-play games has focused on the sustainability of this business model: they may be making lots of money now, but if lots of those players were feeling short-changed, it would spell bad news for future growth.EEDAR's study challenges the assumption that this is the case, not only claiming that most free-to-play gamers are content, but that they're alsonotstupid. An unpleasant subtext of some criticism of freemium games is that they exploit players who don't know any better.The research shouldn't be hailed as proving free-to-play is good rather than evil, though. It would be more positive if it helped move the debate on beyond that polarisation, to a point where we don't argue about whether freemium is evil itself, but instead chew over how and why individual games do it well or badly, and act on those lessons to make better games for everyone.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.FIFA 14 to come free with Xbox One? Gamescom announcement expected | Games industry news | MCVThis could be hugely important if true:Microsoft has turned to Electronic Arts in a bid to spark interest in Xbox One, MCV has been told.At Gamescom tomorrow, an Xbox One/FIFA 14 tie-up will be announced in a bid to win over European gamers, according to two senior games industry sources. The bundle will still retail for £429.99, the same price as the Xbox One base unit.The move is designed to make Xbox One appear better value for money as it currently retails for £80 more than PS4. FIFA 14 has an RRP of £54.99.It's like the 16bit console wars all over again: Sega propelled the Mega Drive into a commanding position by bundling its own Sonic the Hedgehog title with the console. At the time, some execs inside the company thought it was madness, but the machine benefited enormously.List of Games at Gamescom 2013 | IGNThis is useful for the coming week:The List of Games at Gamescom 2013 contains an updated list of unreleased games appearing at Gamescom in some form (not necessarily in "playable" form).EA announces free-to-play Dragon Age game for mobile phones | Eurogamer.netDragon Age publisher EA has announced Heroes of Dragon Age, a new combat-focused free-to-play mobile spin-off set in the world of BioWare's RPG series.Heroes of Dragon Age is being developed by EA Capital Games, one of the publisher's mobile-focused studios.You'll be able to build a party of heroes and monsters from (presumably random and paid-for) packs of new fighters.These characters and critters will "span Dragon Age lore", EA has promised - so look out for familiar faces from the console games so far.Feature: How sexy is the Xbox One? An OXM Breakdown special report | The Official MagazineThis is... well it's... It's typical of OXM Breakdown...Don't pretend you weren't wondering, and don't pretend sex isn't something you can score out of 10, either. The latest OXM Breakdown is an unflinching, unstinting and very unsavoury investigation of Xbox One's raunch factor, presided over as always by the One (hah) and Onely (too much?) Log. If you've ever wondered where humanity is going, now that other human beings don't need to be physically present before we can interact with them, this video paints a grim picture. A grim picture of some sex.Here is the video:Youguys!My daughter's going to learn vital life skills from Spelunky | Eurogamer.netMy friend Christian Donlan has written a typically warm and engaging feature about introducing his soon-to-arrive baby daughter to gaming (and life) via a certain indie hit:Spelunky teaches you the value of things. Should the world descend into zombie-riddled chaos a decade from now, my daughter will hopefully already know that a bomb, in most circumstances, is worth more than a rope, and that a shotgun, on balance, is preferred to climbing gloves. Aside from these sorts of specifics, though, Spelunky's a primer in the nuances of more generalised values, too. My daughter will be able to weigh up whether the potential for additional riches is worth leaving a position of relative safety for, and she'll also be able to appreciate the advantages of living in the moment.All the best to you and your family, Christian!You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamChina's share in Samsung Electronics' net sales falls &gt;&gt; Yonhap NewsSamsung Electronics Co. is struggling in the Chinese market, despite its steady sales growth in other parts of the world, according to company sales data released on Sunday.Samsung's net sales amounted to 77.2 trillion won (US$69.4bn) in the first half of this year, its regulatory filing showed.The Americas accounted for 26.7%, or 20.6 trillion won, of the electronics giant's half-year turnover, followed by 23.3% for Asia and Africa, excluding China, and 21.5% for Europe, the data showed.China accounted for 12.6 trillion won, or 16.4%, while South Korea made up merely 12.1 % of Samsung's net sales.Compared with the company's annual net sales last year, the share of China fell sharply from 20.4%, while the figures for the other parts of the world increased significantly or remained unchanged.Selling more phones in China, but at lower average cost: it's the Android effect.Update: Yonhap isn't comparing like with like. Samsung's quarterly figures for 2012 show that in the first half, China made up 14% of its sales - so that has increased in comparative and absolute terms. (Thanks @Oisin75 for pointing to the flaws in the Yonhap report.)For comparison: Apple's revenues for the first half of 2013 in China: US$12.8bn. Samsung's: $11.3bn.Why Microsoft needs to worry about Google Glass &gt;&gt; Computerworld BlogsJonny Evans doesn't think Glass will be a hit with consumers. But:Glass is an enterprise product. A few ideas:Doctors; Fire service personnel; Soldiers; Delivery drivers; Postal staff; Cab drivers.All these people will benefit from Google Glass, but Google is aiming at consumer markets (I think, though I suspect its developersare aiming at the same verticalsI mention above).So, who already has assets in place that could be exploited by people in those markets? Is it Apple, or is it Microsoft? My answer is Microsoft.An inventor wants one less wire to worry about &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"I was just standing in my room," [Meredith Perry] said, "wrapping up my laptop charger and trying to fit it into my bag and suddenly it occurred to me: Wow, this is so archaic. Why are we using these 20-foot wires to plug in our quote-unquote wireless devices?""See past old paradigms" is one of those cheesy riffs one might hear from an innovation expert working the business speakers' circuit. Yet here it was, a question that inched just past what was simply accepted: Why, in a wireless age, do we still have electrical wires?And what would you replace them with?Samsung's Galaxy Gear smartwatch is real, and it's not a phone &gt;&gt; The VergeThe Verge has learned today that the Galaxy Gear will definitely not be a phone unto itself. "It works with phones," one source tells us, suggesting that it will be a smartphone companion just as most other recent smartwatch efforts have been. "The watch is not a phone."'Final Fantasy VII' characters 3D printed straight from the game - and stopped &gt;&gt; Toms GuideSquare Enix, the company that owns the "Final Fantasy" brand, wasn't pleased that Baldwin was selling their intellectual property. Baldwin received a takedown notice from Square Enix and took the models down today."All orders that haven't been printed will be refunded, and I can't print any of them anymore," Baldwin told us. "It was a good ride while it lasted."This appears to be the first time someone has ported a model from a video game into 3D printer-compatible software and printed it. Obviously the process isn't seamless, but demand for Baldwin's models has been tremendous. "I didn't expect it to go so wildly viral," Baldwin told us.I signed up to be able to order an AT&amp;T Moto X this morning… &gt;&gt; Google+Jeff Jarvis:I signed up to be able to order an AT&amp;T Moto X this morning and I'm already regretting doing so. I pay the full price for an off-contract phone but the invoice says it has a two-year contract. I spend 20 minutes on the phone with Motorola and they're escalating the matter. I'm not feeling good about this.When I asked folks here whether I should wait for the Nexus 5 instead, the near-unanimous opinion was wait. I should have listened.The small(ish) printsaysto the buyer: "You're not a store. You're buying this phone for yourself or to give as a gift. We can't let you resell it, and we take that very seriously." More evidence, if it were needed, that the US carriers are a terrible cartel.Google Nexus 7 touchscreen problems are a touch too much &gt;&gt; CNET UKThenew Google Nexus 7's touchscreen is atouch too much, as users complain of more problems with the wallet-friendly tablet.Owners of the second-gen Asus-built Android slate - which is already out in the US -report that the wrong keys are registeringwhen typing, or multi-touch gestures are going haywire with phantom fingertaps.The screen records that you've touched it even when you haven't, a problem that can't be fixed by rebooting, booting to safe mode or resetting the tablet. It only seems to be an issue when running on battery power, and only when the tablet has been updated to the second Android update sent out to Nexus 7 slates - that's the JSS15J software update, delivered over the air.The link to the Google product forums is a thread 19 pages long - quite a lot for such a new device. There are also GPS hassles too, it seems. (Thanks @Avro for the pointer.)Artificial intelligence and what computers still don't understand &gt;&gt; The New YorkerTo try and get the [artificial intelligence] field back on track, [Hector] Levesque is encouraging artificial-intelligence researchers to consider a different test that is much harder to game, building on work he did with Leora Morgenstern and Ernest Davis (a collaborator of mine). Together, they have created a set of challenges called theWinograd Schemas, named for Terry Winograd, a pioneering artificial-intelligence researcher at Stanford. In the early nineteen-seventies, Winograd asked what it would take to build a machine that could answer a question like this:The town councillors refused to give the angry demonstrators a permit because they feared violence. Who feared violence?a) The town councillorsb) The angry demonstratorsLevesque, Davis, and Morgenstern have developed a set of similar problems, designed to be easy for an intelligent person but hard for a machine merely running Google searches. Some are more or less Google-proof simply because they are about made-up people, who, by definition, have few Google hits:Joan made sure to thank Susan for all the help she had given. Who had given the help?a) Joanb) SusanYou think these things are simple until you try to get a simple machine to answer them correctly.CIRP survey: Where Apple and Samsung get their customers &gt;&gt; Fortune Tech20% of Apple's iPhone customers over the past year were switching from an Android phone, but only 7% of Samsung buyers had previously owned an iPhone, according to a new study released to Fortune by Consumer Intelligence Research Partners.The CIRP report is the most detailed we've seen on where Apple and Samsung get their customers.Caveat: US-only.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
There have, in the past, been two reasonable reasons to view the Saints Row series with some disdain or distaste. The first is in its plain and unapologetic mimicry of Rockstar's more famous, prosperous and storied Grand Theft Auto games, with their lounging cities and grim glorification of the swagger and buckshot of modern (Hollywood) criminality.Saints Row has maintained more of that humour that rumbled like a black belly-laugh through Rockstar's earlier, occasionally satirical work, but the series has never quite had the budget or script to outgun its rival, either critically or commercially.Then there's the tone of the humour itself, always played for cheap, frat-boy laughs — purple dildo truncheons wielded by wide-boys in mankinis — the sort of tittering, juvenile stunts that those who dismiss video games as so much amoral flimflam assume defines the medium.This, the fourth entry to the series, appears to have no loftier aims – at least in terms of its fiction. It boasts, after all, a story that opens with the protagonist climbing a nuclear warhead as it sways into the stratosphere to Aerosmith's 'I Don't Want To Miss A Thing'.Having disarmed the nuke, he free-falls through the ceiling of the White House, ready to usher in a new administration, one in which pimps and hookers assume the most senior roles, and where the presidential suite is punctuated with a series of dancing poles. But this is just one of a number of irreverent and scaling introductions. Layer by layer, these pull apart the traditional so-called open world game premise, setting the stage for a truly postmodern blockbuster.Earth has been besieged by an alien race, the leader of which has turned you, the president, into his plaything, placing you within a Matrix-style simulated reality, a heaving city in which you have the video game-style abilities of a super hero. Here, in this fake fake-world your actions have no consequences: the pedestrians you run over in your car are holograms, the policemen you gun down in terror chases have no fake families to mourn their passing.The set-up allows developer Volition to amplify the in-game action to preposterous – and hugely enjoyable – proportions. You're free to steal vehicles from the city's virtual residents, and within minutes you'll have unlocked an upgrade that implants a nitrous booster in every one to allow you to speed across the city limits in minutes.But soon enough these traditional prizes of the open world trajectory are made obsolete as your character is imbued with a supersonic sprint and Superman jump, able to leap tall buildings in a single bound, and bat away traffic with a sharp elbow.As you bolster your character's abilities with the drip feed of experience points earned from completing the missions piped into your ear by a remote member of the Saints team, you become a god among men, straining against the world's confines in what feels, very often, like a game with all of the cheat modes turned on.This freedom inside the machine is made humorous by the equal freedom you have to craft your hero or heroine as you please. A poster boy, a poster girl, a poster boy who dresses as a girl, a poster girl who speaks with the voice of a man or just about any configuration of identity is yours to conjure. You may choose your character's accent, pitch shift it up or down, tweak the weight of their genitals and, in time, dress them or cross-dress them in any one of 100 different ways (with statistical bonuses offered as incentives to choose the more outrageous options). What was intended as something to be flippantly irreverent takes on a subversive edge, playing with gender and identity in exciting ways. Could this be the first big budget video game to star a transgender protagonist? It is if you want it to be.The cleverness of the game's humour is its flexibility; you're constantly empowered to tailor its sense to suit your tastes. If the sight of a cross-dressing 25-stone Nicki Minaj lookalike drop-kicking an alien from the top of a skyscraper doesn't do it for you, then perhaps dressing as a cockney film noir private detective and attempting to commit fraud by throwing yourself into traffic while listening to a bad reading from Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet on the in-game stereo might. The comedy – just like the music, the clothing and the appearance of your supporting in-game gang who can be summoned to offer back-up later in the game (ninjas, strippers, gimps, mascots etc) – is yours to tailor.Saints Row IV makes a great number of insider video game jokes, parodying Space Invaders one moment and making fun of Mass Effect's 'romancing' the next (indeed, your vice-president is even voiced by the same actor whom voiced one of Bioware's main characters, to strange effect) and even including the over-exposed Nolan North as one of the potential voice actors for your character. But it riffs on many more in terms of its systems. Collecting blue orbs from the tops of buildings or engaging in city point-to-point races is, like much of the game's extracurricular activities, reminiscent of Crackdown. Gliding around the world casts Batman shapes on the dour concrete fast below, while the exaggerated ragdoll physics are plucked from Just Cause.But Saints Row IV simplifies and exaggerates its influences at every turn, eliminating the downtime between the high points of action. It takes mere moments to move from a mission in which you're flying a spaceship through winding funnels to one in which you are asked to create as much financial damage to the city as possible using a 'dubstep' gun that shoots tiny black holes. The variety is intoxicating. Where once Saints Row was little more than a pale imitation of a game hoping to be a movie, trying to shock through narrative irreverence, today its ambition is simpler and nobler: to be endlessly silly and hyperbolic, and nothing but a video game.
Germany's ministry of finance has formally recognised the digital currency Bitcoin as a "unit of account" which can be used for private transactions – meaning that the ministry will now be able to tax users or creators of the four-year-old virtual money.However, companies wanting to use it for commercial transactions would need permission from the Federal Financial Supervision Authority.The Frankfurter Allgemeine newspaperreportedon the decision, which follows scrutiny of Bitcoin's potential usefulness as digital money.Bitcoin is an online token which can be used and exchanged for goods and services in the same way as standard currencies.However, it has no issuing bank; the currency is created by computers performing complex mathematical problems. Transactions are carried out by transferring a unique number within the Bitcoin network from one electronic "wallet" – on a computer or phone – to another.Each of the 10m Bitcoins in existence is presently worth about $117. New coins are "mined" by setting computers to find new solutions to the maths problem.While not putting Bitcoins on the same footing as formal currencies such as the pound or dollar, Germany's move does mean that people who have speculated in the online cryptocurrency could be liable for capital gains taxes if they sell them less than a year after acquiring them.People who have held on to them for longer will not be liable, the ministry told German MP Frank Schaeffler, who raised the question with the ministry. German authorities are trying to work out how – or whether – they could determine taxes due on Bitcoin transactions between individuals.One key problem would be identifying when users have carried out such transactions, given that Bitcoin wallets are effectively anonymous.US authorities have also been studying Bitcoin following fears that it could be used for money laundering or passing funds outside tax oversight.A judge in the US recentlyruledthat Bitcoin does amount to "a currency or form of money" in a preliminary hearing over a man in Texas, Trendon Shavers, who is accused by the US financial watchdog, the Securities and Exchange Commission, ofrunning a pyramid scheme masquerading as a Bitcoin investment company.In contrast with Germany, Thailand's central bankdeclaredin July that it was illegal to trade Bitcoins, use them to buy or sell goods or services in the country, or "move them in or out of the country".
Minecraft creator Markus 'Notch' Persson isn't working on his sandbox sci-fi game 0x10c any more, but he's looking forward to seeing how the fan-made Project Trillek version turns out.Persson published an explanationof his decision to stop working on 0x10c after several reports were published over the weekend, based on comments he made on a livestream of a session in the Team Fortress game.0x10c had been in development for a year, and was Persson's first major project after he appointed a new lead developer for Minecraft, the crafting game that has now sold more than 20m copies across computers, consoles and mobile devices.On his blog, Persson explained why progress stalled on the new game, pointing to heightened expectations due to the success of Minecraft as one of the key reasons."It was quite ambitious, but I was fairly sure I could pull it off. And besides, if I failed, so what? A lot of my prototypes fail way before they get anywhere at all. What I hadn't considered was that a lot more people cared about my games now," he wrote."People got incredibly excited, and the pressure of suddenly having people care if the game got made or not started zapping the fun out of the project. I spent a lot of time thinking about if I even wanted to make games any more."Persson added that over time he "kinda just stopped working on it" and opted to work on other, smaller projects instead, with the most recent example beingShambles, a game created for the recent week-long7DFPSfirst-person shooters challenge."Turns out, what I love doing is making games. Not hyping games or trying to sell a lot of copies. I just want to experiment and develop and think and tinker and tweak," he wrote."Recently, I was streaming some Team Fortress 2, and got asked about the progress on 0x10c. I said I wasn't working on it, and it became news. I understand why, and it really shouldn't surprise me, but I reallyreallydon't want to turn into another under delivering visionary game designer. The gaming world has enough of those."Instead, Persson praises the initiative already underway by fans to make their own version of 0x10c calledProject Trillek, which he linked to from his blog post, promising "I want to play this game so much, but I am not the right person to make it".Instead, Persson is going to continue working on "smaller games that can fail" like Shambles, which although it's been greeted warmly by gamers, wasn't developed with the weight of expectation that accompanied 0x10c – the seven-day game-jam aspect clearly helped there."I want to experiment and develop and think and tinker and tweak. So that's what I'm going to do," wrote Notch.For gamers, it may be a win-win situation: the vision behind 0x10c will still form the basis for a game, while a refreshed Notch firing on all creative cylinders can only be a good thing.
A team of researchers at the Georgia Institute of Technology have revealed a method which they say can slip iOS malware past Apple's App Store approval process.Their research into what they dubbed "Jekyll apps" was presented at the 22nd USENIX Security Symposium in Washington, D.C. and published online as a PDF titledJekyll on iOS: When Benign Apps Become Evil."Our method allows attackers to reliably hide malicious behavior that would otherwise get their app rejected by the Apple review process," explained the five-person team."The key idea is to make the apps remotely exploitable and subsequently introduce malicious control flows by rearranging signed code. Since the new control flows do not exist during the app review process, such apps, namely Jekyll apps, can stay undetected when reviewed and easily obtain Apple's approval.We implemented a proof-of-concept Jekyll app and successfully published it in App Store. We remotely launched the attacks on a controlled group of devices that installed the app. The result shows that, despite running inside the iOS sandbox, Jekyll app can successfully perform many malicious tasks, such as stealthily posting tweets, taking photos, stealing device identity information, sending email and SMS, attacking other apps, and even exploiting kernel vulnerabilities."Their "Jekyll" app was created with remotely-exploitable vulnerabilities built in, masked by legitimate features to evade detection during the App Store approval process, but ready to be triggered once the app was installed on an iOS device.In effect, the app is a Trojan which only becomes active once it runs and has its program logic reconfigured remotely through built-in vulnerabilities put there by the programmer.In the example, they also used undocumented private APIs in iOS to access users' data - such as the entire contents of the address book - while hiding this use "in a way that is more resilient to non-trivial code analysis" during the approval process.The proof-of-concept app was based on an open source news app called News:yc, modified with vulnerabilities and malicious code gadgets, and configured to connect to a server controlled by the research team.It was approved by Apple and released on the App Store in March 2013 for long enough for the team to download it to their own devices. They then quickly removed from the store to ensure no one else downloaded it. "We have data to show that only our testing devices installed the app," explains the report, with the team having "made a full disclosure of our attack to Apple".Apple spokesperson Tom Neumayr told MIT Technology Review thatApple has since made some changes to the iOS softwarein response to issues identified in the research, which has a section discussing possible counter-measures to this kind of malware. It's unclear whether the iOS 6.1.3 update in mid-March,which included some security updates, dealt with this - though the researchers' paper suggests that it would be almost impossible to detect such "Jekyll" apps without examining their source code in detail."The idea of hiding vulnerabilities and later exploiting them is not easy to fix by Apple. It's a fundamental issue for Apple. Most likely Apple can use better sandbox policies to refine what we can do. But 6.1.3 doesn't fix them," Tielei Wang, one of the researchers, told the Guardian."Sandboxes" are the virtual spaces created for individual apps within iOS: each has its own set of files and restrictions about what global data or access it can have. That prevents direct sharing of data: Applesaysthat the purpose of sandboxing is "to limit the damage a compromised app can do to the system."The claim by researcher Long Lu that Apple's approval team only ran the Jekyll app for "a few seconds" before approving it for distribution on the App Store raises the prospect that other malware may make its way onto the store too – or may have done already. Apple has not specified how it tests apps, but a standard method would be to run machine-based "dynamic analysis" in which the code is executed in a virtual machine to check it.Apple says itrejects apps that use non-public APIs- but the "Jekyll" app hides its use of those in apparently dead code which would not be accessible to a machine test before the app had been reconfigured.Thus far, Android has faced much more scrutiny over malware available through the Google Play store. Trend Micro recently claimed that the number of "malicious and highrisk" Android apps wason course to reach 1m by the end of 2013.Meanwhile, the UK's Chartered Institute for IT recently warned about Android malware evolving beyond its most common form of SMS Trojans that text premium-rate numbers from people's smartphones.Apple's confidence that iOS is less vulnerable to malware than Android is unlikely to be dented by the Georgia Tech team's paper alone. Wang told the Guardian that the same method would work against Android: "Since Android also allows third-party apps to use native code, you can also hide vulnerabilities there. But implementing an Android malicious app is relatively easy, I don't think malicious developers need to do this."But news that Apple's approvals process isn't entirely malware-proof may encourage malicious coders to target iOS as well.Apple will have to balance security concerns with the task of approving more than 4,800 new iOS apps a week, based on the App Store's growth from650,000 apps in June 2012to900,000 in June 2013.
Privacy campaigners have condemned Google for responding to British users' claims that it had illicitly tracked their web browsing by claiming that UK laws do not apply to it.In a response to legal documents filed by a group ofBritish users seeking to sue Google, the company said the case should be served in California, where it has its world headquarters, and refused to accept the lawsuit in Britain. It plans to contest the right of UK users to bring a case in the country where they live and use Google's services.Google also dismissed the UK users' claims as "not serious", asserting that the browsing habits of internet users are not protected as "personal information", even where they relate to sexuality or physical health.Nick Pickles, director of the pressure group Big Brother Watch, said: "It is deeply worrying for a company with millions of British users to be brazenly saying they do not regard themselves bound by UK law. Regulators need to step up and ensure that when citizens are illegally tracked against their wishes, the company riding roughshod over their privacy is held to account."The lawsuit comes from a group of more than 100 British Apple users, calledSafari Users Against Google's Secret Tracking, who have filed a damages claim that claims Google illegally violated their privacy in bypassing settings on Apple's iPhone and iPad browser to install tracking cookies without their permission.The search giantpaid a record $22.5m fine in the US in June 2012after the US Federal Trade Commission investigated that use of tracking cookies against millions of American consumers. Google did not admit wrongdoing in the settlement.Google confirmed in the FTC case that it had circumvented protection built in to the Safari web browser on the iPhone and iPad to track them using its DoubleClick advertising network without explicit consent. The circumvention was discovered in February 2012, but Google refused to say how long it had been carrying it out before then. Aclass action was filed in the USover the breach in February 2012.Judith Vidal-Hall, a former magazine editor who is one of the claimants, said she was appalled: "Google's position on the law is the same as its position on tax: they will only play or pay on their home turf. What are they suggesting – that they will force Apple users whose privacy was violated to pay to travel to California to take action, when they offer a service in this country on a .co.uk site? This matches their attitude to consumer privacy. They don't respect it and they don't consider themselves to be answerable to our laws on it."Marc Bradshaw, another claimant, complained: "It seems to us absurd to suggest that consumers can't bring a claim against a company which is operating in the UK and is even constructing a billion-pound headquarters in London. If consumers can't bring a civil claim against a company in a country where it operates, the only way of ensuring it behaves is by having a robust regulator."Bradshaw said though that the UK regulator, the Information Commissioner's Office, had said it could only fine Google if it broke the law."Fines would be useless," Bradshaw said. "Even if Google agreed to pay them – because Google earns more than the [£500,000] maximum fine in less than two hours. With no restraint, Google is free to continue to invade our privacy whether we like it or not."Lawyers for the claimants say that individual damages might be modest but that because millions of Britons use Apple devices and access Google services that in aggregate the sums could be significant.Alexander Hanff, a privacy advocate who has been following the case, said: "I would hope that given the court already granted permission for the complaint to be served to Google Inc in California, that they will follow through and reject Google's defence." Writing on a website devoted to the case, he pointed to examples in Canada where Facebook had been sued in Canadian courts despite claiming its US status, and said that an FTC commissioner had "accepted that EU laws and EU countries do have extraterritorial jurisdiction with regards to enforcement of their laws".Dan Tench, a partner at the lawyer's Olswang, which is acting for the claimants, told the Guardian: "there are important points of principle in this case. It's regrettable that Google are seeking to resist accountability for their actions. We hope that they will have the opportunity to be brought to account for them."Google said it would not comment on ongoing legal actions.The case is scheduled to come before an English court in October.Google is already the target of concerted efforts by European privacy regulators, where France hasgiven it a deadline of the end of Septemberto change its privacy policies to meet local laws, while Spain is pursuing six counts of privacy infringement.That followed Google's unilateral meshing together in March 2012 of privacy policies separately covering each of its services – such as Maps, search and YouTube – into a single one, effectively tracking a user's activity across all those services.Antitrust regulators in Europe are also negotiating with the search giant to reduce what is seen as favouritism of its own products, such as Google Shopping, in search results above rivals.
When Random House launched itsBlack Crown Projectin May 2013, most of the attention was focused on the medium – a book publisher's first move into gaming – rather than the message.The project is a free-to-play web game by debut authorRob Sherman: a creepy and wonderfully-written story about the mysterious Widsith Institute, and the historical exploits of a figure called the Miasma Eremite.You could compare it to classic text adventures, or perhaps Choose Your Own Adventure books, but that's medium talk again.The point about Black Crown is that it's not a whizzy piece of technology applied to so-so writing and a predictable storyline. It's a great book that happens to be published in a different format.Since its launch in May, new content has been added to Black Crown every couple of weeks, and it's currently around 65% of the way towards completion in September.The game is free, but you can buy a virtual currency called Nex, then spend it unlocking new story branches; speeding up access to "Living Stories" which you'd otherwise have to wait for; and refreshing your "Actions" count, which runs down as you play, then replenishes in between sessions."There are three audiences we're looking at here, with one being the gaming audience: indie gamers, nostalgic gamers, text-adventure gamers," says Dan Franklin, the digital publisher at Random House who launched the project.The other audiences are fans of speculative fiction – science fiction, fantasy, horror and related genres – and what Franklin describes as a "progressive" audience: readers open to new types of experience."We thought they would be the easiest audience to win over, but in fact it's been the gamers who responded most," he says, citing positive coverage by sites includingThe VergeandRock Paper Shotgun."Ironically, you find it's the book press that often has a closed mind for this sort of thing," he says. "But the indie gamer and technology sites, I think that what they understand is the internet, and how culture is shifting on there, breaking down barriers."Three months after its launch, how is Black Crown doing? Franklin says that nearly 6,000 people have signed up, with around 5% of them – so around 300 people – having made a payment of some kind.Around half of these players had previously played other interactive-fiction games like Fallen London onStoryNexus, the platform that Random House is using for Black Crown.These aren't big numbers by the standards of the social or mobile gaming worlds, where active players are generally counted in millions before they're seen as significant.But for a book publisher's project to both introduce a debut author and explore a new form of digital publishing, it represents what Franklin calls "a solid start", although he's keen to push on from here."I want to get two, three or four times the number of people using it," he says. "We need to raise the total number of people signing up: we want more people in the room, and I'd like to see them spending some more money on it."The Black Crown community is growing, with a forum full of players discussing the story – some adopting Sherman's characterful prose style – anda new Tumblr providing linksto the items found by the Miasma Eremite character.Random House is also learning about the commercial side of free-to-play fiction, with 70% of Black Crown's payments focused on story-branch unlocks, and 30% on refreshing actions – a complete reverse of the proportions on the previous Fallen London game."That's partly because Fallen London is a vast game and has been going for three years, so its now mature. And it also reflects that Black Crown is much more narrative-heavy," says Franklin. "The gamification in it is less pronounced."Black Crown is a web-based gameWhat happens in September? Franklin compares Black Crown to a TV show rather than a book, in terms of possible future plans for the world of the Widsith Institute."The way we're thinking about it is this is the first season, and it could end after this season – and that would make sense – or we could go into a second season," he says."We have the gaming rights, merchandise rights, dramatisation rights, but it's hard work writing on this platform and in this way. Rob might want to sit down and write a few stories instead!"It's part of wider exploration going on within Random House and elsewhere of new digital formats for storytelling, including ebooks, apps and the web.For Franklin, that has included publishing shortform ebooks like the Storycuts and Brain Shots series for Random House, as well as a critically-acclaimediPad version of Anthony Burgess' A Clockwork Orange.He's keen to go further. "We've been innovating with old material, and what's been done with apps like The Waste Land, Clockwork Orange and Frankenstein has been great and really legitimate," says Franklin."But I think the books industry needs to be seeking out talent in these new ways too. We have people cited as the great crossover games/literary writers like Naomi Alderman, but we need to find a wider pool of people like that. We can't just be going back to her, as good as she is."Franklin talks enthusiastically about going to performances byPunchdrunk, the "immersive theatre" company that's been working with the National Theatre in London recently. He sees it as proof that nonlinear narrative doesn't have to be a niche, strange thing."That's a mainstream, London cultural thing, even if it's not ITV-on-a-Saturday-night mainstream," says Franklin. "It raises questions about how prepared we are as publishers to support this type of writing. I really want to explore the possibilities of the web more."Franklin is also full of praise for the partners for Black Crown – Failbetter Games, which is behind StoryNexus, and developer Popleaf, which worked on the Miasma components – as examples of the kind of partnerships book publishers can forge with technology firms.He continues: "Some people talk a lot about networked novels, the complete dissolving of the book into the web, and how the web is the ultimate future for the book. I'm loving playing with how writing can exist on the web, and how publishers can operate there."In the meantime, there are more stories to come within Black Crown, and a drive to ensure more people find out about it and try its charms for themselves."The publishing mentality is release, do marketing and publicity, then move on. But this is a longer game: we've got work to do, and while I'm not getting pressure for it to be performing better, I do want it to be performing better," he says."But having something that is alive and growing for 3-4 months at least is a very different type of behaviour. We've got an amazing new writer, and this is a great thing to be doing: learning about something we weren't doing before. But I do want more people to enjoy it: it's a brilliant piece of storytelling."
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Cliff Bleszinski posts another image of new project | VG247The co-creator of Gears of War and all-round US gaming celeb Cliff Bleszinski seems ready to climb into the development ring once more: he's started to post teasing concept art online via his Twitter feed. Andhereis the latest example:The artwork shows a cityscape being largely obliterated by an enormous lightning storm. True to previous form, it contains few clues as to the nature of the new project. Check it out for yourself:This image matches thematically rather well with the first teaser image released a couple of weeks ago, which showed an armed figure walking through a flooded canyon. The second image, of a sport involving giants and jetpacks, still makes no sense at all.A VG247 reader later suggested that the white edifices at the base of the uncropped image may be sections of the Hollywood sign. Is this a game about LA being destroyed by a vengeful God? Did news of a fourth Transformers movie finally push him over the edge?Minecraft Creator Shelves His Space Game, but Fans Want to Revive It | KotakuDarn it, this is a shame:x10c (often pronounced "ten to the c") was for a time the next big thing from Mojang and Markus "Notch" Persson, creator of Minecraft. It was to be a sprawling sandbox space adventure, but Persson put the project on hold back in April, citing creative difficulties, and then this week said he'd shelved it altogether.Speaking to a livestream earlier this week, Persson told listeners he had no future plans for 0x10c and would focus on making smaller-scale games. Persson, according to Geek.com, said he'd have no problems with another Mojang developer picking up where he left off.But it's not all bad news:But now it seems a group of enthusiasts from the 0x10c subreddit will be taking up the mantle [...]. Speaking to USGamer, the project's lead and head writer said the group wouldn't use "any of [Persson's] old code, his name or anything."The fan project will be known as Project Trillek so look out for that.Rejection, tragedy and billions of dollars - The story of FIFA | MCVThis is a really fascinating story about how EA originally had no interest in making a Fifa game – and about the people who made it happen:Members of the UK team lobbied the US to let them build one. And even EA Canada's Bruce McMillan, a Chelsea supporter who would go on to lead the FIFA development team, tried to persuade the EA hierarchy to build a football game."I said that we should be in the worldwide football business. But when I first said that, EA was like: 'well we are already in the football business with Madden.' I said: 'No, I mean proper football'."Ubisoft breaks silence on Child of Light | CVG UKUbisoft Montreal has discussed a new 2D sidescrolling game, 'Child of Light' during a GDC Europe talk today.The title is being helmed by creative director and Assassin's Creed veteran Patrick Plourde, and is powered by Rayman Legends' UbiArt Framework engine.According to GDC event organiser Simon Carless, Child of Light will feature turn-based battles and a "living painting" art style inspired by Miyazaki and European fairytales.Grunge, Grrrls and Video Games: Turning the dial for a more meaningful culture | GamasutraTypically combative piece from Leigh Alexander on how '80s culture has shaped the games industry:Like everything else from the 1980s, the most visible arms of the game industry, and the games with the most fans, are driven by an obsession with advancing and accumulating hardware. They exist to serve and express the corporate ideal of bigger-better-more, and even in 2013, still generally find themselves serving up shallow, corny male power fantasies made by people with money, to people with money. It promises big engines and cool explosions.And she's totally right about E3 being a pure eighties-inspired spectacle of capitalist wish fulfillment.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 17 August 2013PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Payday 2 (18+)Xbox 360 (70)PS3 (30)12 (1)Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition (7+)Xbox 360 (100)83 (7)Call Of Duty: Black Ops Ii (18+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (37)PC (1)Wii U (1)394 (2)Fifa 13 (3+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (30)VITA (7)3DS (4)475 (5)Animal Crossing: New Leaf (3+)3DS (101)106 (6)The Last Of Us (18+)PS3 (100)107 (3)The Smurfs 2 (3+)DS (33)Xbox 360 (29)Wii (22)PS3 (15)38 (8)Lego Batman 2: Dc Super Heroes (7+)Xbox 360 (36)PS3 (19)Wii (16)3DS (14)589 (9)Tomb Raider (18+)PS3 (45)Xbox 360 (49)PC (3)2410 (13)Grand Theft Auto Iv (18+)Xbox 360 (67)PS3 (33)6011 (10)Assassin's Creed Iii (18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (41)4212 (16)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim - Legendary (18+)Xbox 360 (46)PS3 (32)PC (22)1113 (12)Need For Speed Most Wanted (7+)PS3 (43)Xbox 360 (42)VITA (14)PC (0)3814 (14)Lego The Lord Of The Rings (12+)Xbox 360 (42)PS3 (23)Wii (18)DS (8)2815 (11)Far Cry 3 (18+)PS3 (41)Xbox 360 (54)PC (5)3816 (15)Max Payne 3 (18+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (38)PC (1)2117 (18)Grand Theft Auto Episodes - Liberty City (18+)Xbox 360 (72)PS3 (28)PC (0)2318 (19)Battlefield 3 (16+)Xbox 360 (69)PS3 (23)PC (8)4919 (–)Bioshock Infinite (18+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (33)PC (5)1520 (–)Red Dead Redemption: Goty (18+)Xbox 360 (70)PS3 (30)3UKIEGames Charts© compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Musician Zoë Keating earned $808 from 201,412 Spotify streams of tracks from two of her older releases in the first half of 2013, according to figurespublished by the cellist as a Google Doc.The spreadsheet was Keating's latest attempt to shed more light on the issue of streaming music payouts to artists, as part of the wider debate on whether Spotify and its rivals can generate a sustainable income for musicians."This is streaming revenue reported from January to June 2013 for my 2 old recordings distributed by CDBaby," explained Keating in the notes section on her spreadsheet.The 201,412 Spotify plays of songs from her One Cello x 16 EP and One Cello x 16: Natoma album earned Keating 0.4 cents per stream (just under 0.3p in UK terms), after digital distributor CDBaby's 9% cut is factored in.How do other streaming music services compare to Keating's Spotify payouts? She earned $54.40 from 7,908 plays on US service Rhapsody at 0.69 cents per stream, although that included mechanical royalties payments for writing the songs as well as performing them.Keating earned a mere $13.38 from 387 plays of these songs on Microsoft's Xbox Music service, although the per-stream rate there was a startling 3.5 cents.The spreadsheet includes payments from Apple's iTunes Match and Amazon's Cloud Drive – 0.2 and 0.05 cents per stream respectively, although as services that let people stream music they already own from cloud lockers, these represent different licensing deals to Spotify, Rhapsody and Xbox Music.Keating's EP and album earned $1,617 from SoundExchange – the US company that collects royalties from services including Pandora, iHeartRadio and Sirius XM – and $930.26 from YouTube, although data on the number of plays in these cases is not available.Her total streaming payments for these two releases were $3,454.28 in the first half of 2013. Keating's last album, 2010's Into the Trees, is available to buy, but not to stream.Keating has a history of releasing this kind of raw data, as the debate about how much artists get paid from streams as opposed to sales of their music has grown in volume."If we are going to discuss the ideal structure of the new music industry, we need to know how recording artists make a living today or we're just spouting hyperbole," shewrote in a previous Google Doc, released to share details of her digital earnings between October 2011 and March 2012."So, in the interest of evolving the discussion, I am making myself into a data point. I encourage other artists, if they are able, to do the same."That first Google Doc revealed that nearly 97% of Keating's income came from sales of her music on iTunes, Amazon andher own Bandcamp website. During that six-month period, Keating earned just under $47k from iTunes, $25k from Bandcamp and nearly $11.2k from Amazon, but less than $300 from Spotify.Thom Yorke criticised Spotify after removing Atoms for Peace's albumsHer latest spreadsheet is likely to become a discussion point in the streaming royalties debate, which was recently reignited whenAtoms for Peace pulled their albums from Spotifyand other streaming services, with band members Thom Yorke and Nigel Godrich criticising these companies for business models that they claimed were weighted against emerging artists.Keating is a different kind of artist: established, but "non-mainstream" (in her own words), and one of the most prominent examples of a do-it-yourself artist in terms of releasing her music without a label.For her part, she has praised the potential of streaming services, while offering constructive criticism about how they could and should work better for musicians."I think Spotify is awesome as a listening platform. In my opinion artists should view it as a discovery service rather than a source of income," she wrote in that first Google Doc."The income of a non-mainstream artist like me is a patchwork quilt and streaming is currently one tiny square in that quilt. Streaming is not yet a replacement for digital sales, and to conflate the two is a mistake. I do not see streaming as a threat to my income, just like I've never regarded file-sharing as a threat but as a convenient way to hear music.If people really like my music, I still believe they'll support it somewhere, somehow. Casual listeners won't, but they never did anyway. I don't buy ALL the music I listen to either, I never did, so why should I expect every single listener to make a purchase? I think that a subset of my listeners pay for my music, and that is a-ok because...and this is the key.....there are few middlemen between us."Later, shesuggested in a blog postthat digital music services should share more data with musicians to help them make money in other ways, such as touring:"I want my data and in 2012 I see absolutely no reason why I shouldn't own it. It seems like everyone has it, and exploits it…everyone but the creators providing the content that services are built on.I wish I could make this demand: stream my music, but in exchange give me my listener data. But the law doesn't give me that power. The law only demands I be paid in money, which at this point in my career is not as valuable as information. I'd rather be paid in data."On a related note, earlier this year, Keating became one of the most high-profile artists towork with music startup Songkick's Detour service, which gets fans to crowdfund concerts by their favourite musicians, pledging to buy tickets until enough people are signed up to make the gig worthwhile.
When American firm Silent Circleshut down its Silent Mail encrypted-email serviceearlier this month, it claimed that "e-mail as we know it today is fundamentally broken from a privacy perspective".Now the company has beenelaborating on the claimin response to questions about why it couldn't just use an asymmetric key cryptography plug-in for email applications to secure communications between its users.In short, it's all about the metadata."If the goal is simply to encrypt the body of the message there are services and products that accomplish this," explained Silent Circle's technical operations manager Louis Kowolowski in a blog post."If your goal is to not have metadata leakage in your otherwise secure communications, you may wish to avoid email altogether. Email leaks the information about who is communicating, and how often. This information may be just as damaging as the content of the email."As examples, Kowolowski noted that companies wanting to protect their intellectual property or individuals sending tax returns may be happy to use traditional PGP/SMIME technology to encrypt the body of their messages, but that "a freedom fighter working on an oppressive country" would be just as concerned about the metadata.He went into more depth about how encrypted emails can still yield plenty of valuable metadata for interested parties, providing more context for Silent Circle's decision to shut down Silent Mail days afterone of its peers, Lavabit, also closed."In the past, securing the body of the message was sufficient. The tools and techniques used for snooping were not on a large enough scale to allow the metadata to be useful," wrote Kowolowski."With the tapping of backbone internet providers, interested parties can now see all traffic on the internet. The days where it was possible for two people to have a truly private conversation over email, if they ever existed, are long over."His words may serve as a warning for anyone thinking of switching to other non-US-based secure email services like Hushmail, Neomailbox and Countermail, although as Kowolowski made clear, email may remain a suitable form of communication for people and companies who care more about encrypting the body of their messages than the metadata around it.Metadata of various kinds has been at the heart of the ongoing revelations about surveillance by the US National Security Agency (NSA) this summer, from the first story on 6 June about theNSA collecting "telephony metadata"from calls made by millions of customers of US telecoms provider Verizon.AnNSA metadata-collection program called ShellTrumpetwas later revealed to have "processed its One Trillionth metadata record" in December 2012, withObserver writer John Naughton later notingthat "the metadata is what the spooks want for the simple reason that it's machine-readable and therefore searchable. It's what makes comprehensive internet-scale surveillance possible."For its part, Silent Circle is focusing on its Silent Phone, Silent Text and Silent Eyes services for voice, video and text/picture messaging. "We don't have the encrypted data and we don't collect metadata about your conversations," explained the company in itsblog post announcing Silent Mail's closure.
Sam Fisher has a plan. He's going to break in and then out of one of America's most secure prisons in a day to free a CIA captive. If he fails the world will burn, but succeed and he'll piss off a rival agency, the president and probably his daughter too. "This is insane," says one of his crew. "Even for us."That neatly sums up the sixth iteration of Tom Clancy's series. It pulls between opposing influences – the action-heavy focus of predecessorConvictionand earlier, stealthier forbears – and it cannot please everyone. Yet it tries – producing a game that's mad, sometimes bad and unquestionably dangerous, but also unashamedly fun.The blockbuster tone is established with the tutorial, which sees Sam crashing in a helicopter as Katyusha rockets rain down on Anderson Air Force base in Guam. A mysterious terrorist outfit calling themselves the Engineers claim responsibility, and threaten weekly attacks against American interests unless all US troops serving worldwide are returned home. Obviously that can't happen, so it's time for Sam to suit up with his trifocal thingies and go Jack Bauer on their asses.You oversee the new Echelon campaign from your airborne HQ the Paladin, where you're free to explore and talk to the crew before missions. Such interactions are limited by the drab conversations and environment – it's no Normandy – but the side missions acquired by chatting to the cast of stereotypes make them worthwhile.Talk to old friend Grim for a bunch of ghosting-only scenarios that play like old-skool Splinter Cell, for example, or tough-guy Briggs for co-op offerings. As well as being significantly better executed than the main storyline, these episodes provide you with bonuses upon completion, such as an even stealthier stealth suit.That'll come in handy, as in between fending off attacks on American soil, you'll be shipped to a veritable feast of global hotspots including Benghazi, Sana'a, Grozny and, er, Greenwich. Sadly, this geographical variety never translates to the range of interesting environments it should. There are exceptions – like the old US embassy in Tehran with its twisted Lady Liberty statues – but infiltrations are mostly confined to identikit compounds. Thankfully, movement through these environments is less stilted.The game awards you points for upgrading your kit whether you take enemies out loudly, quietly or not at all – and unlike Conviction you really do have the choice this time. The stealth option isn't perfect – the cover system is clunky and there's always a convenient pipe or air duct directing your approach away from experimentation – but it is at least viable.If you want to play like Conviction Sam though, you can. Blacklist is defiantly OTT in retaining the 'execute' gauge, which allows you to mark and take down three foes in a single second. Head shots with the silenced pistol are satisfyingly brutal. In short, your load-out can be customised for sticky-cams if you like but the game has no qualms about you packing incendiary devices. Personally, I like the middle ground of systematically knocking people out and hiding them in bins.The problem comes when you're forced to adopt one of these approaches against your wishes, dumping you in a situation your customised character is singularly unprepared for. At times stealth becomes mandatory due to the sheer volume of foes and frustrating infrequency of checkpoints, but elsewhere you're mandated to kill 30 or more people in a tight arena before you can proceed. Other action set-pieces fall equally flat. A first person section proves calamitous and a 'death from above' drone episode is both incongruous and unwieldy. The less said about the use of a quick-time event in an important battle, the better.It's not a great spoiler to say this villain combines Hollywood's favourite baddie tropes by being both British and Arab. For all its talk of terrorists, NSA tracking and 'Stuxnet-style viruses', the game has about as much insight into the post-9/11 world as Tetris did the Cold War. The story is hokum and its appalling script is merely reinforced by the absence of Michael Ironside's dulcet tones *sniff*. The best that can be said for the plot is that it's forgettable.Of course, you could just avoid it entirely and seek refuge in the infinitely better online options and aforementioned side missions. Starring in the former is the much-anticipated return of Spies v Mercs, which sees Fisher-like spies face off against slower but better armed mercenaries in games of two against two or four against four. It's an experience unparalleled anywhere else online, proving undeniably tense as you work with a buddy or team in a glorious game of cat and mouse. Bringing a buddy along for co-op missions is also a worthy endeavour, but there's a paucity of occasions where you'll expressly have to help each other to advance. Like so much of the game it's brilliant but leaves you wanting more.It's clear that, like Sam, Ubisoft has a plan. They want a Splinter Cell that builds on Conviction but is truer to the series' heritage – and with Blacklist they've achieved that, albeit imperfectly. If the next game can refine the formula and give it a proper plot, then just maybe Ubisoft can deliver a classic the next time Sam is the man with the plan.• This review was written playing on an Xbox 360
If Pikmin 3, Nintendo's great summer hope for its beleaguered Wii U console, has you directing a herd of miniature helpers, The Wonderful 101, the company's leftfield, summer sleeper-hit-in-waiting, puts you in control of an angry mob. In both games you sweep through the landscape as a hustling cluster of bodies. In both games you use this crowd's wisdom and strength to create pathways to your objectives, and to eliminate the foes and obstacles in your way.But only in The Wonderful 101 can you, with a delicate swipe of the finger, arrange your swarm into a giant pink spiked whip used to tear the armour from your opponents, or a pea green handgun used to launch your minions as a kind of fleshy ammunition, or even a Soviet hammer that pounds the concrete in a thick Russian accent. If Pikmin 3 is the Gardener's World of ponderous strategy games, The Wonderful 101 is police helicopter footage of a sweltering Los Angeles riot.The two games have an opposed sort of symmetry. Pikmin 3 takes place in the undergrowth of an uninhabited planet, The Wonderful 101 resides in the pocked streets and suburbs of a besieged city. In one you play as hapless alien invaders, working with the natives in order to figure out how to exit terra firma as soon as possible. In the other, you play as the indigenous warriors themselves, all decked out in 1970s Japanese superhero spandex, attempting to shoo away the raiding thrusts of the so-called Geathjerk space invaders.The premise and styling is as wild-eyed as anything to come from Platinum Games, the most boisterous of Japan's contemporary video-game developers. The titular 101 is a group of topflight superheroes plucked from each of the world's nations. Each individual has his or her own unique styling and ability, but this is a game about the power of co-operation, not individual might. The swarm might be composed of individuals, but it must act as a single entity. Using either the Wii U pad's touchscreen or one of its stiff analogue sticks, you can shepherd your mob into esoteric tools and weapons by tracing shapes. The larger the shape you draw, the greater the number of superheroes who add their bodies to its formation.As well as the purely destructive properties of your mob (and, apart from buildings and larger structures, much of the environments are destructible) they can be used to surround certain objects and people in order to bring restoration. In this way wilted flowerbeds can be made to blossom (yielding bonus items in the regeneration), humble pedestrians can be inspired to temporarily join the 101's ranks and, wearied enemies can even be recruited to your side.Platinum's talent for the set piece is brought to the fore by way of the game's chosen style, that of the 'Tokusatsu' – the genre of special effect-heavy Japanese TV shows and films that include Godzilla and Kamen Rider. In this way, play is routinely interrupted for an outrageous and delightfully inventive gameplay intermission as you, for example, fire giant baseballs into an alien's face on a baseball field, or use your mob to tickle a 50-foot robot's underarm, or morph into a giant hang-glider and tear through the whipping wind collecting upgrade tokens.It's in these moments that Platinum displays a mastery of the Wii U hardware hitherto unseen, even in Nintendo's homegrown titles. One especially memorable section has you controlling a giant spacecraft on the television screen by marshalling the 101 onto directional pressure pads in a cockpit that's rendered on the Wii U pad's screen. If this weren't enough to juggle, you must simultaneously battle enemies in both the cockpit on the pad and in the skies on the TV screen. It is a genuinely novel gameplay invention and gives a true taste of the Wii U's untapped potential and promise.But all of this unbridled creativity comes at the cost of some refinement. The scrappiness of the action extends upwards and outwards throughout the entire game, which struggles to marshal its ambitions and ideas into a perfectly coherent whole. An alchemy system allows you to create new items from collected pieces of fruit, although its workings are left unexplained; each of the 101 you collect can be levelled up individually, although its unclear what benefits this brings to the whole. New moves and attacks unlock seemingly at random and the means of exposing the game's intermittent in-situ bonus levels is opaque.Finally, the game's tall difficulty belies its accessible aesthetic: make no mistake, this is a far more demanding proposition than its Pikmin cousin. And yet, these are the hallmarks that make Platinum's output some of the most exciting work in contemporary video games: scruffy invention in a playpen that allows for player mastery. In the midst of this riot of ideas and unrefined energy we can perceive some of the Wii U system's idiosyncratic wonder. It may not be a game to sell a system, but The Wonderful 101 provides ample justification for Nintendo's eccentric hardware.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNSA broke privacy rules thousands of times per year, audit finds &gt;&gt; The Washington PostThe National Security Agency has broken privacy rules or overstepped its legal authority thousands of times each year since Congress granted the agency broad new powers in 2008, according toan internal auditand other top-secret documents.Most of the infractions involve unauthorized surveillance of Americans or foreign intelligence targets in the United States, both of which are restricted by statute and executive order. They range from significant violations of law to typographical errors that resulted in unintended interception of U.S. e-mails and telephone calls.In case you missed this on Friday. Question is, who watches the watchers?Google engineer explains why multi-user isn't enabled for phones, offers hope for future functionality &gt;&gt; Android Police"...it is not at all clear how it should work on a phone, specifically with respect to SMS and phone calls," writes Dan Morrill, Google Engineer and a regular on the popular /r/Android subreddit. "Suppose you have device sharing enabled and then a call comes in. Who gets it? Do you punch through to the current user? Only the owner gets it? If only the owner can answer, does it ring for the second user? Is it worse to annoy the current user with a ringing phone they can't answer, or worse for dad to miss a call from his boss because Junior was playing Angry Birds?"(The discussion is on aReddit AMA.) Pretty clear that phones are more individual than tablets (where Google has enabled multi-user).If the new Nexus 7 can have a Retina-like screen, why can't the iPad mini? &gt;&gt; iMoreRene Ritchie:To maintain app compatibility, like the iPad 3 and iPhone 4 before it, Apple would need to go to @2x (double the horizontal and vertical pixels) to increase the density• The iPad mini is 7.87- x 5.3- x 0.28-inches and weighs 0.69 lbs. It currently uses the aforementioned 4:3 1024x768 (786,432 pixel), 163ppi screen, and gets 10 hours of battery life.• A theoretical iPad mini Retina would need to stick very close to those same size, weight, and battery life measures, but bump up the display to a 4:3 2048x1536 (3,145,728 pixel), 326ppi monster.• The Nexus 7 (2013) is 7.87- x 4.49- x 0.34 and weighs 0.64 lbs. It now uses a 16:10 1920x1200 (2,304,000 pixel), 323ppi screen, and gets 9 hours of battery life - in airplane mode.So the Nexus 7 is a little thicker (though still light thanks to the plastic back), but more importantly, has only 3/4 of the amount of pixels an iPad mini Retina would need, and even then at only a fraction (who knows how much?) of the battery life. In other words, the Nexus 7 (2013) is thicker, has less pixels, and less battery life than a theoretical iPad mini Retina.Engadget's review of the 2013 Nexus 7 confirms thatits battery life is shorter than last year's model. (The battery also has less capacity.)Newly crowned Miss Teen USA: I was a victim of cybercrime &gt;&gt; TODAY.comAbout four months ago, [Cassidy] Wolf said she was notified through Facebook that someone had tried to log into her account from another state. She then received an anonymous e-mail from a stranger saying he was in possession of photos of her that were taken in her bedroom via the webcam on her computer after it was hacked. The person tried to extort her in return for ensuring the photos were not made public. She cannot divulge all the specific details because the incident is now under federal investigation.The FBI has a suspect. Her advice: put a sticker over the computer's webcam when you're not using it.Stack &gt;&gt; Mugi YamamotoMy diploma project is a compact inkjet printer, which is placed on top of a paper pile. When printing, "Stack" slowly moves downwards and swallows the pile until no paper is left. The paper disappears under the printer and exits on top, where it creates a new pile.Thanks to this new way of printing it is possible to remove the paper tray, the bulkiest element in common printers. This concept allows a very light appearance and avoids frequent reloading.New Tweets per second record, and how &gt;&gt; Twitter BlogRaffi Krikorian (@raffi), VP, Platform Engineering, on how Twitter learned to cope with gigantic demand - which meant dumping Ruby On Rails:When it came down to it, our Rails servers were only capable of serving 200 - 300 requests / sec / host.Twitter's usage is always growing rapidly, and doing the math there, it would take a lot of machines to keep up with the growth curve.At the time, Twitter had experience deploying fairly large scale JVM-based services – our search engine was written in Java, and our Streaming Api infrastructure as well as Flock, our social graph system, was written in Scala. We were enamoured by the level of performance that the JVM gave us. It wasn't going to be easy to get our performance, reliability, and efficiency goals out of the Ruby VM, so we embarked on writing code to be run on the JVM instead. We estimated that rewriting our codebase could get us &gt; 10x performance improvement, on the same hardware –– and now, today, we push on the order of 10 - 20K requests / sec / host.Incidental: successive tweets are no longer incremented by 1. Really fascinating blogpost about the big and small picture of dealing with huge real-time demand, and how to retool for it.The Meanings of Googliness &gt;&gt; Jens O. MeiertIn case you missed this last week:Here's my own interpretation of what it means to be googley. What qualifies me to give one? Apart from having worked at Google for more than five years, I got to work with a few extraordinarily googley people who've been at Google for many more years, some of who paid special attention to teaching their protégés googliness. In my career at Google I too have then tried to inspire googliness, mostly by leading by example. Whether I succeeded (my personality can interfere with my intentions) is on others to judge, but I'll give myself the credit of working much on it. The idea of googliness made me love Google, and made me love going to work.Qualities cited include "doing the right thing", "striving for excellence", "doing something nice for others, with no strings attached", and more.Should do better for hiring than The Intern, anyway. Though judging by the comments..The Meanings of Appleiness &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dediu responds:I think I can get away with replying to the Meaning of Googliness with the following.Looks pretty accurate.BlackBerry - and Nokia's - fundamental failing &gt;&gt; stratēcheryBen Thompson recalls December 2009:Android 2.0 "Eclair" had launched two months previously, and a second app ecosystem was starting to take root, sealing BlackBerry's fate as a standalone ecosystem. It wasn't just BlackBerry; Nokia's door to platform independence closed at the exact same time for the exact same reason: while the history of software ecosystems is not long, the maximum number of said ecosystems seems to be about 2, maybe 2.5. This has held true for the desktop, for consoles2, and now for mobile.Quite a sobering thought - that three ecosystems, max, is what you get in any space. See also what he thinks BlackBerry and Nokia should have done.Apple seems to be beefing up hiring in China &gt;&gt; WSJAmong the more than two hundred openings in China on professional network site LinkedIn, some of the eye-catching China-based positions include an environmental affairs program manager, a  security specialist and a store specialist.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Hey there, Monday, watcha doing?!
Japanese superheroes are currently en vogue.The Wonderful 101serves up a whole platoon of brightly coloured do-gooders, and their debut is a heroic one for Nintendo's software-starved Wii U. Alien enemies and obstacles are overcome not by mere brutish combat but by forming the sizable team of masked warriors into giant weapons and tools. Draw a straight line on the Gamepad and they will assemble into a sword or bridge; a circle forms a giant fist, an L-shape a cannon. It's a creative approach to puzzle-solving and level progression that provides gameplay quite unlike anything else currently available. The isometric view of the stages results in occasional camera-angle woes but it's a minor slight on an otherwise fantastically enjoyable and unique effort. Bright and optimistic without being cloying, with a wry sense of humour throughout,The Wonderful&nbsp;101lives up to its title – simply wonderful.
Look at the pictures submitted to ourGuardianWitness project about old technology.  Remote controls idle on set-top boxes, the objects of their spent beams long since gone. There is a record player whose turntable last turned a decade ago. A VHS: say no more. A radio whose tuning knob disappeared years ago, but which, intact, made a wonderful childhood birthday present and which, therefore, is waiting for a better ending than disposal. Although, of course, there is no other ending: that is why it's still on the mantelpiece. Best leave the inventory there.People hold on to outdated technology for any number of reasons, from sentimental through aesthetic or financial to a determination to outfox the future by showing that the old stuff still works. And, sometimes, simply to disprove the idea that there is no progress without renewal. After all, if you don't flinch at the decrepitude of your belongings, perhaps you don't flinch at the decrepitude of yourself. Maybe we are all old-tech.We asked some of you why you were holding on to something that technological advances had left behind, but which you could not bring themselves to relinquish. Here are your stories.Toby Strickland, Ruddington:Motorola Talkahead mobile phoneIt has emotional baggage.' Photograph: GuardianWitness/Toby Strickland.It was 1998. I was working in a community day service for people who had been excluded from traditional day services. The whole idea was that we would support people to access community services – take them to the cinema, library, bowling, cafes, colleges. We got up and running and realised that, health and safety-wise, we had lots of lone workers with quite challenging people. We had pagers to start with, but to respond, you had to find a phone box. Eventually, we managed to convince people at the NHS that we needed mobile phones. It was all very exciting – we didn't have personal mobiles. I just love the "brickness" of it. And the pull-out aerial – you had to do something before you made a call. The phone only used to ring when something difficult was happening. "I'm on a tram, and so-and-so's jumped off and run into the fields." "I'm in McDonald's and so and so's locked themselves in the toilet!" It was great to have, but I used to dread the phone calls. I still have that feeling now. It's in a drawer up in the top room, and every now and then when conversations go to your first mobile phone, I get it out and say: "Look at this baby!" I've had other phones and sent them off to be recycled, but this one has more emotional baggage.Phil Brown, Exeter:Franka Rolfix camera'My dad was the one who used it.' GuardianWitness/Phil Brown.It's the camera that we used to take on our family holidays, when we went to the seaside; I was about four. Photography was more of a ceremony in those days. If you were feeling flush, you took 16 pictures on your whole holiday. You thought much more about what you wanted to take. What you came back with were staged family photographs: "Here we all are on holiday." I was thinking about that; thinking it would be nice to get an old camera – you can still get the film for them. I started looking around on eBay. I happened to go home to visit my mum. I said: "I'm thinking of buying an old-fashioned folding roll film camera like the one Dad used to have." She said: "Oh, do you mean like that one I've got in the cupboard?" Sure enough, that one in the cupboard was the one my Dad used to have. My mum is a keen thrower-outer of things she considers to be past their stage of usefulness. It's many years since my father died, in 1968. Afterwards, she got rid of a lot of things that I would have thought would have some sentimental attachment. I expected this camera to have disappeared a long time ago. It turns out they bought it as a shared present to each other, and took it on honeymoon. She would have hung on to it herself if it wasn't for the fact that I was going to use it. I recognise I have quite a responsibility. The lens is good and the shutter is good. I haven't quite thought about my first project yet. My dad was always the one who used the camera. It is a key image in my memory of him. It is probably going to get used for a bit of landscape photography. We actually had family holidays down here in Devon. There are certainly photographs in an album: afamous beauty spotin the middle of Dartmoor, a place where a couple of rivers meet, some stepping stones. It would be fun to go back now and see what I can do with it.Simon Rogers, London:Sony NT2 Digital Micro Recorder'Hearing the children's baby voices.' Photograph: GuardianWitness/Simon Rogers.I've always loved recording – sounds that are around you. I used to do a lot of remixing. I bought this in 1992, before sound libraries were commercially available. It was quite expensive, at least £1,000. We used to record all sorts of things. Noises on the tube, waves, clubs, gas pipes: there were yellow pipes being installed everywhere. I put the recorder inside and hit it: a kind of springy reverb sound. You'd go back and put it into a sampler or something.It conked out in 1999, got clogged up with fluff from being carried around in my pocket. I sent it off to Sony and they said they couldn't fix it. I just put it away. There were other exciting bits of technology coming out. Then I found the tapes again, in an envelope, knocking around in the studio. They looked pristine. I looked at some of the labels and couldn't remember writing them. I had to find out what was on them. I thought, I wonder if you can still get hold of those machines? I found one for only a few hundred dollars. There were quite a few things that I had forgotten about. Hearing the children's baby voices. One of the guys I worked with died recently; there's quite a lot of him on the tapes. I think what I might do is try and get some sort of project where I would use that tape machine specifically. But I have transferred everything to the computer in case this one breaks.Sue Nicholson, Whitley Bay:Kenwood mixer'If it broke, I would fix it' Photograph: GuardianWitness/Sue Nicholson.I bought this about five years ago but it dates from the mid-70s. I had friends who were spending three or four hundred pounds on KitchenAids or Kenwoods. I'd always used a food processor but I had started to make cakes with my goddaughter. I had done a three-layer sponge for one of her birthdays, by hand – you don't get the air into a mix with a food processor. I went to theauction place in Whitley Baywhere I live. There was a big cardboard box. It had the basic Kenwood and loads of attachments. I paid £22 for the whole lot. I've got quite a small kitchen but I use the mixer so often, it sits on my kitchen bench. I make cakes, scones, I do mashed potato in it. My goddaughter loves making cakes. We're going to make one tomorrow. If it broke, I wouldn't throw it out. I would get the spare parts and fix it. I wonder about who owned it before me, but it's come to a good home. Bakers divide into two distinct camps. There are Kenwood users and there are KitchenAid users. I think KitchenAids are for somebody who wants something that makes a statement by the way it looks. I would prefer to have something that does the job.Chris Hardy, Royston:Hewlett Packard 41C calculator'I would miss it.' Photograph: GuardianWitness/Chris Hardy.I got this calculator just after I joined Fine Fare supermarkets in 1982. I was doing market research, analysing a lot of our sales work. I needed something that I could set up, programme, and give to my clerk, so she could put the figures together for me. I've been using it ever since. I'm retired now but it is always on my desk. I find it the easiest of all calculators to use. Most of my colleagues veered away from it. Nobody else could use it; so they never borrowed it. It usesReverse Polishlogic: you start in the middle of the expression and move outwards. After I got my first iPhone I discovered that there was a Reverse Polish app, so I can use my iPhone when I'm nowhere near my desk. The calculator has been part of my working life for a long, long time. I suppose, yes, I would miss it. If it ever got handed down, if it gets that far, they'll wonder what it's all about. I suppose in its day it was an object of beauty. Compared with the design of many things today, it's very old-fashioned.techie27, Stoke on Trent:Celestion Ditton 10 speakers'It's almost like being there.' Photograph: GuardianWitness/techie27.As a teenager my hobby was electronics. I went to a technical school. At that time everybody made hi-fis. TheGarrardset of decks became very common. I bought the Perspex lid and built this large-ish box for it and when I got my first pay packet, I bought the speakers. I started work when I was 19, as a computer operator. It was 1966. My father was quite shocked when my first pay packet came to more than he had ever seen in his life. The speakers were secondhand and they cost £10. They lived in the front room, the parlour. Dad played his brass band, Mum listened to popular classical music and my sister listened to pop. I tagged along behind all three of them. My parents retired to Rhyl in north Wales in 1974 and the hi-fi and the speakers went with them. It was only when my mother died in 1988 that I brought the speakers back here. I have them in my lounge:they have got a lovely sound and I use them daily. If I put CDs on, they tend to be Libera; the style of my old school choir. I don't think of the speakers when I'm listening. It is as it should be; they are invisible. I close my eyes and I am transported back to old school days or a concert. That's what a good hi-fi should be; almost like being there.Basim Javaid, Lahore:Sony FH-7 MK II hi-fi'They become part of your life.' Photograph: GuardianWitness/Basim ViaIt was bought by my father somewhere around September or October 1984. I was almost six. I had a passion for music: Abba, Cliff Richard, Bony M, Dolly Parton, U2. My father was always listening to music. He used to listen to Elvis. I didn't have a taste for that. The hi-fi was something very new. Hi-fi systems were bulky; this was a system that appeared to be somewhat smaller. It had 280W output. That's too much for a medium-sized room. I love the quality of the sound. I still love it. I am the sort of person who is nostalgic by nature. I like old stuff; I have an emotional attachment to it. It is 29 years old and it has never been repaired. I have done a little bit of servicing, just by myself. At times my family think I'm crazy. They think I should upgrade. But it's out of the question. You become so attached to certain things. They become part and parcel of your own life. You just can't do it. No matter how hard you try.
Price £50,995MPG 45.6Top speed 155mphParking: a word that strikes panic into some and an excuse for misjudged misogyny into others. Either way it is clearly an issue for today's motorists – and a source of friction among many couples. My neighbour walks away from the car when his wife is at the wheel. "She says she can't do it  if I am watching," he sighs – as if she is going to the loo. Perhaps because  of this manufacturers have spent  a fortune over the past decade on  a plethora of "parking aids" (marital aids might have been a better name). There are front and rear proximity sensors; rear, front and even side-view cameras (my children love gurning under the number plate so I can see their contorted faces on the dashboard); bird's-eye positioning graphics; and technology which means you just let go of the steering wheel and the vehicle will parallel park itself.Yet these devices are missing the point. The real issue with parking is spaces – or lack of them.ParkatmyHouse, a company that lets drivers park in private spaces at homes, schools and elsewhere, has estimated that the average city motorist spends six minutes and 45 seconds looking for a space, which adds up to a colossal 2,500 hours over a lifetime. Forget worrying about kerbing your alloys or scraping the bumper – you've got a space, rejoice!A vision in beige: Alan Partridge would certainly approve of this interior colour scheme. Photograph: LexusLoath though I was to give up my space, the newLexus GS 450h F-Sportis the sort of car that's crying out to be driven. Mention Lexus to most people and they will tell you one of two things: first, that it stands for Luxury Exports to the US – the acronym Toyota apparently used when developing the range for the American market; and second that David Cameron and Alan Partridge were both owners. If you can stand the stigma of driving the motoring equivalent of posh smugness or hilarious offensiveness (you decide which is which), your Lexus will repay you handsomely.What is crucial about this GS 450 is the h and the F – it is both a hybrid and a graduate of the marque's Mount Fuji race-tuning programme. Lexus claims that its new GS is "the most technologically advanced production vehicle in the world". Even allowing for unseemly aggrandisement that's quite a boast. But they're not far off the mark. The GS is a V6-powered luxury saloon as quick to 60mph as the top flight of performance Audis, BMWs, Mercedes and Porsches, yet thanks to its eco-technology it is as clean and efficient as many cars  half its size. In many ways this is what the future of performance four-door motoring will look like. The petrol engine is harnessed to two electric engines: one functions as a generator and starter, the other provides the oomph needed to take  a hybrid to 155mph.To drive the GS is whisper quiet, effortless and nimble. Choose between the eco and comfort setting for around town and the sport and sport plus (possibly an unnecessary 11 on volume) for Huhne-ing down the motorway. Floor it and you get an almighty shove in the behind, like your porch rocker has been lassoed by a galloping cowboy.Inside, the car is comfortable but surprisingly basic. Yes, there's leather and chrome, and a clever finger-light remote-touch mouse makes navigating the satnav a doddle, but for a car of this price it doesn't have that sense of privilege: we want more Bullingdon and less Butlins. Outside, the car looks quiet, almost apologetic. It's both a sports car and a saloon, a cruiser and an eco wagon – a true hybrid, and as such Lexus could do with shouting about it. And if you  do happen to find a place in front of your house, you want the neighbours to know about it...Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visittheguardian.com/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one place
Those whom the gods wish to destroy, they first make credulous. In the case of technology, especially technology involving computers, that's pretty easy to do. Quite why people are so overawed by computers when they are blase about, say, truly miraculous technologies such as high-speed trains, is a mystery that we will have to leave for another day. The only thing we need to remember is that when important people, for example government ministers, are confronted with what a sceptical friend of mine calls "computery" then they check in their brains at the door of the meeting room. From then on, credulity is their default setting.In which state, they are easy meat for technological visionaries, evangelists and purveyors of snake oil. This would be touching if it weren't serious. Exhibit A in this regard isthe government's plan for "smart meters". By 2020, more than 26 million British homes will have their old-style electricity and gas meters replaced by shiny new digital smart meters to monitor their gas and electricity usage.In principle, this is an attractive idea. It will enable much greater flexibility in the way we generate, distribute and consume energy. The meters will tell consumers about their energy use on a minute-by-minute basis. They will enable utilities to charge different rates at different times of the day (higher in times of peak demand, lower when demand is slack) and thereby enable customers to make more informed choices about when they switch on devices. Dishwashers may one day come with a red button (for "do it now") and a green button (for "do it when electricity is cheaper"). The current legions of peripatetic meter readers will be redundant. There will be no more "estimated" meter readings. And so on.So far so good. But there is another side to the smart-meter story. Inside each device is a sim card that enables it to communicate with the utility companies that supply the gas and electricity. This is how the utilities will always be able to supply an accurate meter reading. But it will also enable them remotely to terminate your supply if, for example, you fail to pay your bills on time. Which means – and&nbsp;here's the interesting bit – Kim&nbsp;Jong-un,the Chinese armyor any number of unsavoury characters in the Middle East or Russia could do the same."The off switch creates information security problems of a kind, and on a scale, that the energy companies have not had to face before," writes Professor Ross Anderson, one of the country's leading experts on cyber-security,in an oft-cited analysis. "From&nbsp;the viewpoint of a cyber attacker – whether a hostile government agency, a terrorist organisation or even a militant environmental group – the ideal attack on a target country is to interrupt its citizens' electricity supply. This is the cyber equivalent of a nuclear strike; when electricity stops, then pretty soon everything else does too. Until now, the only plausible ways to do that involved attacks on critical generation, transmission and distribution assets, which are increasingly well defended. Smart meters change the game."They do indeed. But the government is interestingly coy on the matter. The Department of Energy &amp; Climate Change'sresponse to the public consultation on smart metershas – rightly – a lot on privacy and data protection. But when it comes to the really big security issue, it lapses into the standard vague, patronising assurances. "In order to ensure the ongoing security of smart-meter systems," it burbles, "the government is taking a 'secure by design' approach, in which security concerns are considered and addressed at every stage throughout the development lifecycle. To support this approach, the government has produced security requirements to mitigate, within an agreed tolerance, the anticipated risks that the end-to-end smart metering system will introduce. These requirements provide for key security controls in areas such as the encryption of sensitive data, checks on the validity of critical commands sent within the&nbsp;system, and the tamper resistance of metering equipment (among other&nbsp;areas)."Don't you just love that "secure by design" approach? The government is asking us to believe that a project involving subcontractors from a range of companies going around the country installing networked computing devices in 26 million properties will result in a secure system. This is the same government, incidentally, which is so hot on security that it paid contractors millions of pounds for electronicallytagging criminals who were either in prison or dead. All that remains now is for G4S to get some of the smart-meter installation work.
Now here is a game with a premise. The (fully customisable) protagonist ofSaints Row IVis a former gang leader-turned-president of the United States. Aliens invade, trapping the people of Earth in aMatrix-esque simulated prison, leaving a superpowered commander-in-chief to save the world. The game's first mission involves a nuclear terrorist threat and the action actually escalates from there, eventually reaching dizzyingly surreal heights. In gameplay terms, the Saints Row series has never been revolutionary. It started life as aGrandTheft Autoclone, and that's still obvious here, though the superpowers are well-handled, fun and easy to use. The real strength is the writing, which is second to none.Saints Row IVis a brilliantly sharp cavalcade of pop-culture parody, showing a care for good dialogue and wit rarely seen in games. It may be immature, but that doesn't mean it isn't clever.
Attack of the Friday Monsters!is a curious and gentle affair. Rooted in a loving nostalgia for the giant monster and superhero shows that dominated Japanese television in the 1970s, you play an inquisitive boy named Sohta, whose family recently moved to a small village outside Tokyo. Caught up in ninja games and rumours of monsters that appear each Friday, Sohta's adventure is one of childlike whimsy, the player left unsure if the strange occurrences in the town are really the work of alien invaders, an overactive imagination, or just the promotions of a local TV station. Unfortunately, with the core gameplay consisting of collecting playing cards and exploring the city, many of the subtler charms will be overlooked by players lacking knowledge of, or affection for, Japan's history oftokusatsucinema. Yet, with its engaging characters, beautiful music and surprisingly heartwarming narrative beats, the combined experience is one really to be cherished.
Wormshas been a favourite since the mid-90s. The British-developed strategy game puts players in command of a small squad of invertebrates tasked with blasting an opposing platoon from randomly generated terrain. Its turn-based, multiplayer fun is ideally suited to a touchscreen (not to say that the single-player isn't a joy in itself) and withWorms 3, Team17 has created a wonderful mobile-specific iteration of the series.It's no revolution, but then there wasn't much wrong to begin with. The main change is in the squad system, whereby, in addition to individual names and voices for your worms, they're also assigned different roles, such as heavy or scientist, with their own strengths and weaknesses. Cards are also new, played prior to a level to provide a small boost, such as extra fuel or augmentations to the environment. They're small tweaks, but along with  the beautifully drawn graphics make for the bestWormsgame yet.
When Rob Sherman rocked up at Random House's offices last year with a suitcase containing a gas mask, a mandolin and other artefacts from an Exeter junkshop, his timing could not have been better.Flush withFifty Shadessuccess, the publishers were willing to take a punt on the 25-year-old writer's wacky ideas, helping him develop an interactive storytelling game calledthe Black Crown Project. Players brave enough to enrol in the mysterious Widsmith Institute are plunged into a twisted and darkly humorous world where they soon have to decide what to do with a dying pig (kill it with a pen or embrace it?)Now I should confess that while I'm open to literary experimentation and new ways to waste time, text-based games aren't really my thing. Especially when they're browser-based like this one.Still, it's clear to anyone who spends time exploring the Black Crown Project that Sherman has a scarily prodigious talent, something underlined by his pseudonymous (and free) short stories. I loved the witty footnotes in "Mour, Mour, Mour", while "Lincoln's Bedsheet" made me hungry for a novel. What an inventive way of launching a young writer.New ways of telling stories also mean new ways of making money. While app revenue tends to tail off after the initial publicity blast, online games can hook users in for an extended period of time, tempting them with micropayments to unlock story strands.Of course the bottom line isn't the only deciding factor with ventures like this.Dan Franklin, who commissioned the Black Crown Project for Random House, is keen for it to be seen in a wider artistic context, linking it toPunchdrunk's immersive theatre. Let's hope such creativity continues to thrive at the new Penguin Random House.
Anne-Marie Imafidon describes herself as "one of those people who asks 'why?' a lot" – and it has served her well. At the age of 10 for instance, Imafidon was asking why one web page looked different from another. The answer was the HTML code behind it, which she learned to use and then built her own pages. She did her maths and IT GCSEs that year. By 15, she was at Oxford. Yet one question she didn't ask was why there were so few girls. "I was one of three girls in a class of 70 reading maths and computer science at Oxford. There's not that many of us around. It never really bothered me."That changed last year when Imafidon was at a conference in the US and there was something in the keynote that threw her. The number of women in technology was on the decline. Not the proportion, the absolute number. "I couldn't believe it," she says. Returning to the UK, she discovered the same trend. Girls studying science, technology engineering and maths (Stem) at school were haemorrhaging out the pipeline.In 2010, women accounted for 47% of the UK labour force, but they made up just 25% of technology professionals,down from 27% in 2001. In 2011, boys outnumbered girls 11 to one in the average A-level computing class and 85% of those getting degrees in technology and engineering were men. What is more, research shows that many of those women currently in the tech workforce feel disillusioned and alienated in a male-dominated industry.Imafidon, now 24, is tackling that problem with the same stubborn nature with which she tackled maths problems as a child. Her talent is clearly exceptional, but she doesn't think her passion for maths and technology is unusual. "I think girls do have the passion but a lot of them are conditioned out of it," she says, pointing to pervasive assumptions among parents, teachers and wider society about the kinds of behaviours that are appropriate for girls –and for boys. "How many girls do we know who have been discouraged from coding or from physics? And they are probably some of the best brains on the planet, but we don't know because someone said 'why don't you wear this pink T-shirt instead of this blue one with an atom on it' and that's their talent wasted for life."Such attitudes mean girls have to want to be different, and alone, if they are going to pursue an interest in technology. "You have to take a stand and say, 'I'm the only girl I know who's going to study maths and computer science at university and I'm OK with that'," Imafidon says. Understandably, most children are more likely to listen to what they are told they should do, or to follow the crowd.Research shows these attitudes follow women in technology into the workplace too;one study by Intellectshowed that 47% of women in tech believe they have to act like a man to get ahead. As Belinda Parmar, founder and CEO ofLady Geek, an organisation that aims to make technology more accessible to women, notes in her book,Little Miss Geek, any industry in which women are made to feel they cannot be themselves is going to struggle to retain them. Emma Mulqueeny, founder ofRewired Stateand a campaigner to get coding into mainstream education, agrees: "You end up with some battle-weary women who are fighting to do the thing they love. They are jaded."Most women don't make it that far. Aglobal study conducted last yearby Women in Global Science and Technology and the Organisation for Women in Science for the Developing World found that even in countries where the numbers of girls and women in science and technology education were on the rise, this wasn't translating into women in the workforce. In the UK, two-thirds of women who study science and technology don't go on to work in Stem jobs. What's turning them off?"The biggest issue is the image problem. Girls think people who work in technology are pizza-guzzling nerds who can't get girlfriends," says Parmar. Michelle Brideau experienced that first hand. Bored by working in the travel industry, she started thinking about a change to tech, but was intimidated by the apparent "frat-house mentality" of the industry, as depicted in the filmThe Social Network. She also wrongly assumed that you needed a computer science or maths degree.Then last year, she came acrossMakers Academy, an intensive programme that promised to teach her how to code in just 12 weeks, despite her lack of computer science background. She now works as a junior developer forEnternshipsand says the reality of working in the field lives up to the stereotype. "I have been shocked by the lack of women around. I have been in a room in which it was forgotten a woman was present and it started to feel like a locker room."This lack of visibility of women in the workplace and the classroom – the lack of role models, champions and mentors – is perhaps one of the most cited barriers to getting more women in tech. According to research conducted in 2008 by Catalyst that surveyed women working in the hi-tech sector, women most often pointed to a lack of role models similar to themselves, not having a mentor or champion and being excluded from important networks of decision-makers as the biggest barriers to career advancement.Yet artificial attempts to get more visibility for women aren't always the answer. At aCampus Partyevent being held in London next month, the second day is dedicated to women in technology and boasts top speakers. But the lineup for the dedicated entrepreneurship day is, so far, a male-only affair. Tech entrepreneur Poornima Vijayashanker, who founded education startupFemgineerand is also one of the speakers on the women-in-tech panel, generously suggests that it might be an "off year" – there have been women keynote speakers in the past. But, she says, tech entrepreneurship "is also plagued by the [gender] imbalance". Part of the solution is to "educate women on running a business, how to take risks, teaching them how to commercialise technology and encouraging them to pursue their ideas".Addressing the imbalance in tech entrepreneurship is also about getting women to think bigger, says Alice Bentinck, co-founder ofEntrepreneur First, an organisation that helps graduates build startups through a year-long programme. "I hate saying this because it's such a cliche, but the typical application from women [in the first year they ran the scheme] was around either cooking startups or craft startups, whereas the guys were applying with these ambitious ideas that were going to change the world." She now runsCode First, a nine-week summer programme to teach women leaving university how to code.To get more women on board, her colleagues had to "do a much bigger conversion effort" than when recruiting men – explaining why working in a startup is such a fantastic thing to do and why coding is such an essential ingredient in that career path, she says.Mulqueeny agrees that forcing the women-in-tech issue can backfire. She campaigned to get more girls involved inYoung Rewired State, a network of software developers and designers who are all under 18, through PR and public speaking, only to find the few girls who had signed up dropped out, "because I made such a fuss about it". So she asked her 15-year-old daughter what she should do.The answer, she says, was to make these events more mainstream, "not massive geek fests". They invited model Lily Cole to present and "turned it into a proper festival, with music and festival wristbands".Perhaps one of the simplest arguments for getting more women into technology is one of hard cash. Despite the lack of women creating technology, women are avid tech consumers. Four out of 10 tech products are bought by women, yet only 1% of women think tech companies have them in mind when they make them. And diversity pays: companies with more women on their staff make more money.Imafidon points to one example – an online shopping company that recently launched a fashion app where users can search the clothes in their database by colour. "Now I don't know about you but I don't shop by colour," Imafidon says."They've invested billions of dollars, launched this massive app and it was like, 'Yay, you can find purple dresses'. It doesn't meet anybody's requirements. It's nuts." That diversity of thought is missing from a lot of products, she adds. "When you've got 85% of the IT population being male and 50% of the generation being female, it doesn't align."Yet beyond the economic arguments, Imafidon says, we're also missing out on sheer talent. At a time when computing, coding and technology have the potential to open more doors to young people than ever before, how can we make sure women make up a bigger part of the picture?1. Women step forward"If you ask boys today what they want to be when they grow up they say they want to be the next Mark Zuckerberg," says Imafidon. "The girls don't associate with that. They don't see that Zuckerberg's right-hand woman isSheryl Sandberg." To address the issue, Imafidon has createdStemettes, an organisation that helps put girls in contact with women working in tech. "The idea was to try to make them visible, seem realistic and accessible."The lack of role models for working women needs to be addressed too, including inviting more women to take to the podium at tech events. Early this year, writerRebecca J Rosen suggested that men take a pledge not to speak on male-only panels. Conference organisers responded that it's often hard to persuade women to take part. The responsibility therefore rests on women, too, to accept speaking invitations and not even wait to be asked. "I've always believed it more constructive to try to focus on changing what we can affect rather than waiting around for others," says Eileen Burbidge, who studied computer science and worked at Skype and Yahoo before setting upPassion Capital, which invests in startups. "It's well documented that women typically ask for less – whether when negotiating compensation packages, performance bonuses responsibility, or investment funding."Women must mentor others and seek mentors out.Research showsthat employees who fail to get mentoring start looking for other jobs. "Too often, people are filled with doubts that hold them back. Spending so much time internally doubting instead of reaching out and asking how to achieve is the culprit," says Vijayashanker.2. Give tech a makeover"The perception is that a coder is a geek who has learned to code on his own," says Ruben Kostucki at Makers Academy. "Not everyone is like that." This stereotype needs a serious rethink. One myth that needs to be debunked is that the only way into programming is to teach yourself from a young age. Intensive courses like those held at Makers Academy can turn even a novice into a programmer in as little as 12 weeks if they are prepared to put in the hard work.Research shows that women want to work in jobs that are creative (80%) and help people (90%), yet only 30% of women believe tech jobs fit those criteria. Girls need to be able to see the diversity of roles within the industry, says Mulqueeny: "Stop it being a magical thing that nobody understands – it's not magic, it's very simple. People in the industry need to talk more about the sorts of opportunities that are there and the different kinds of things you can do. There are so many jobs in technology, that girls don't associate with it."3. Start them youngRight from the get-go, computers are widely labelled as "boys' toys". If adults discourage girls from tinkering with technology when they are young, what chance do they have of retaining interest as they grow up? In a culture where being into technology is "cool" for boys and "weird" for girls, it's vital to make tech engaging, and available, at primary school. That's the thinking behind Mulqueeny'sYear 8 is Too Latecampaign. Unless girls are taught programming at junior school, by the time they reach senior school "they are not going to self-select a subject that is seen as something a bit odd, for the weird kids".If there's any doubt that it's a cultural, rather than biological, force pushing girls away from computing in the UK, a glance at the "geek nations" shows a different picture. "In the Baltic states, women make up over half of the tech workforce. In Estonia, women account for an incredible 70%," says Parmar. "The secret to this success is that technology is seen as a highly respectable career opportunity for women that offers creativity."Imafidon cannot stress enough the importance of giving girls permission to like technology at a young age. "As young as possible let girls make that choice between pink and blue, as it were. If you are a parent, make everyone aware you won't be annoyed with people buying your daughters toy cars. Those choices that parents, society, school puts on you will stick with you your whole life," she says. "If my dad had said, 'No, it's weird, go and do something else', I wouldn't have the job, the social mobility or the opportunity that I have now."4. Get the girls aloneBoys are good at getting on with geeking-out over code on their own, but girls might need a bit of a nudge. Running girls-only events can provide the environment they need to get over their perception of coding as something difficult. "When you're beginning, you need to not feel like the silly girl asking questions," Imafidon says. This Saturday and Sunday, Stemettes is running the first ever hackathon for girls. The concept is "let's all sit in a room and with beanbags and sweets for the weekend make some mobile apps," she says. The thinking is backed up by a number of studies showing that girls at single-sex schools are more likely to pursue science – they are almost two-and-a-half times more likely to go on to do A-level physics than girls from co-ed schools – and are morelikely to avoid stereotypically female career choices.Women, too, benefit from some alone-time. "Both my experience as a trainer and research that I'm aware of indicate that women learn best and gain confidence more easily in women-only environments and this is especially true in the case of skills, which are widely perceived as 'masculine'," says Paula Graham, founder ofFossbox.5. Shout about the perksBehind the stereotype of tech being a career perfectly suited to the "logical" brains of men, there is a well-kept secret – tech jobs give women the creativity and flexibility they seek in their careers. The work is also hugely empowering and challenging, says Graham. "It's a sector that is pretty accommodating of individuality" and it's not the sort of job where you get bored after six months. Tech also pays well;a study by Forbes showed that three of the best-paid jobs for women were in the tech sector.Some tech companies are also proactively boosting the perks – music startupSongkick, for instance, has introduced a paternity leave policy that treats men the same as women, which means new fathers can also take up to nine months off, helping to level the playing field. Add to this the fact that there are plenty of jobs for women to fill in the industry (Maker Academy, for instance, finds it easier to get placements for women graduates than for the men) and programming skills can earn you cash on the side if you ever need it, for instance during a career break. Yet nobody seems to talk about how much of a female-friendly career technology is, Mulqueeny says. "When people stumble on it it's a complete revelation." It's time to let the cat out the bag.6. Tech CEOs: hire more women (and make more money)If pulling on the heartstrings doesn't help get more women into tech, how about the purse strings? With women playing such a crucial role in the purchasing decisions around technology, it's no surprise that companies with more women on their management teams make more money – as much as a 34% higher return on investment. "Once you have a gender imbalance and only males in a group you don't have the same quality of innovation, creativity and it's less harmonious," says Kostucki. Simply put, without women on the team, men are not going to have the insights to design products that truly work for women. And that's a big mistake. According to theHarvard Business Review, there's more money to be made by successfully marketing to women than to India and China combined.Anne-Marie Imafidon is speaking at Campus Party at the O2 arena, London 2-7 Septembercampus-party.eu
My mum and dad have a cracking picture of me on my first bike, by the beach near Morecambe, where I grew up. Aged perhaps four, I'm wearing navy-blue slacks, a matching T-shirt with red piping, brown sandals and an extremely self-satisfied expression as I sit astride an olive-green steed that is almost certainly a hand-me-down from my big sister. Black and white, the shot would be timeless. But in colour, it shows its age: these days little girls' bikes are pink, with streamers on the handlebars and a&nbsp;special carrier for a&nbsp;dolly on the back.The pink plague carries right on into adulthood. My own road bike, a&nbsp;mid-range Specialized Dolce chosen five years ago for being the least offensively girly model in my price range, still has a hot pink logo and a white floral motif on the bottom bracket – not to mention a name meaning "sweet" (yuk). Hurrah, then, forPinnacle, Evans Cycles' in-house women's range, which comes in various colours, none of them on the cherry-blossom-to-magenta spectrum. The only clue to Gabbro 2's gender orientation is its geometry: on average, women have shorter torsos, shorter arms and longer legs than men of the same height, so the gently sloping top tube is a tad shorter than on a men's model. The narrow shallow-drop handlebars are more female-friendly, too.In the catalogue, the Pinnacle looks expensive, glistening as if made from titanium or plated with chrome. In real life, however, the aluminium frame looks cheap and tacky, like a&nbsp;"silver" Primark necklace after a&nbsp;long night out. But itischeap. I&nbsp;always say you can't get a&nbsp;decent new road bike for under £500, and this one has an RRP of £550, though Evans is selling it for £458.33 at the moment. The brand name would have given it away if the price tag hadn't. Really classy things are never named after something you can find under "the best" in a&nbsp;thesaurus.For the price, it is not a bad bike: yes, the group set is mostly bottom-of-the-range Shimano, but it is a&nbsp;perfectly serviceable arrangement. I took against it for another reason: the metal pedal cages. Riding through Manchester daily, with its infuriating one-way system and overabundance of traffic lights, I was constantly stopping and starting, often chivvied along by the horn of a taxi. There wasn't always time to get my left foot into the cage and so I would put my foot on the flat side instead, only for the cage to then scrape along the ground, making a noise that made me wish I had mastered riding no hands on my olive-green dream machine so I could put my fingers in both ears. Still. At least it's not pink.Pinnacle Gabbro 2Price£550FramePinnacle 6061-T6  heat-treated aluminium alloyForksCarbonGears16 (Shimano 2300 range)BrakesTektro R317 57mm deep-drop
Saints Row IVPC, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360The fact that Saints Row started out as a faint-hearted GTA-alike is now almost forgotten in the gibbering cavalcade of lunacy the series has ushered in to cover its tracks. Saints Row IV sets phasers to daft right from the off, with the opening scene seeing you assault an underground terrorist base before jumping aboard a nuclear missile in flight and disabling it with your bare hands. Cut to five years later and you're president of America in the midst of an alien invasion, while trapped in a Matrix-style simulation. Vice City, this ain't.Deep Silver, £24.99-£34.99Brothers: A Tale Of Two Sons For SteamPC, Xbox 360Brothers: A Tale of Two Sons.The brothers' mum drowns and their dad becomes seriously ill, sending them on a quest for medicine that goes well beyond popping across the road to Boots. You control both brothers simultaneously, a process that takes a bit of getting used to, but that works nicely with the game's simple-minded but elegant puzzles. Despite there not being a single line of intelligible dialogue in the game, it still packs a hearty and cinematic poignancy as the boys meet glowing-eyed wolves, friendly giants and trolls.Starbreeze Studios, £10 (1,200 MSP)Bioshock Infinite: Clash In The CloudsXbox 360, PlayStation 3, PCBioshock Infnite: Clash in the Clouds.Clash In The Clouds is the first chunk of downloadable content for Bioshock: Infinite. In the game you're dropped into a small series of battle arenas; fending off waves of increasingly nasty attackers in order to earn "cash". Clearly designed for those who want a test, its levels – even without the difficulty-enhancing blue ribbon challenges, – verge on brutally hard, and without any plot exposition, it's just you, your guns and the game's magic-style "vigors" for company.2K Games, £3.50-£9.99This week's new games
GettingJustin Bieber to endorse your app? That's *so* 2012. Social video-sharing appVyclonehas gone one better in 2013 by bagging a deal with the world's biggest boy-band: One Direction.The partnership is focused around the London premiere next week of the new One Direction: This Is Us film. The band are encouraging fans planning to attend the event to download Vyclone's app on iPhone, Android or Windows Phone, then use it to shoot footage on the night.Those clips will then be auto-stitched together into multi-angle videos by Vyclone's technology and shared with One Direction fans around the world. There's a dedicated 1D: This Is Us account on Vyclone for fans to follow, along with a hashtag: #1DMoviePremiere.It's a big deal for Vyclone. The UK/US startup's app has always been very innovative, but its challenge has always been getting it onto the smartphones of a big enough audience to make its collaborative features count.With 14.2m Twitter followers and 19.3m Facebook fans, One Direction are a powerful partner to have. "There is no better fan base than One Direction's, and we love that we're able to bring the band directly to the fans using our technology," says Vyclone CEO David King Lassman."This is a unique opportunity to give at-home fans enhanced access to an exclusive event, and we can't wait to see the collaborative content created."Vyclone's app originallylaunched for iPhone in May 2012, adding Android and Windows Phone versions later. It has previously been used by artists including Madonna, Ed Sheeran and No Doubt for marketing campaigns at their concerts.The company's investors include actor Ashton Kutcher, concert promotion giant Live Nation and Hollywood studio DreamWorks, while Lassman's co-founder is musician Joe Sumner, son of Sting.The Vyclone partnership is just one ofa range of digital activities promoting the This Is Us film. Studio Sony Pictures has released a remixable trailer, a meme creator for fans, and will launch a scavenger hunt with music app Shazam on 22 August, and hold a listening party on Spotify on 25 August.
