My wife wants a simple music centre that she can set up in one room and listen to in adjoining rooms. The systems she has seen seem far too complex, requiring her to download and store stuff when all she wants to do is play CDs. Any ideas?There are all sorts of new-fangled, wireless hi-fi systems that beam music around your home, but you could be getting blinded by the white heat of technology. Tune out all the hi-tech noise and get back to basics: all you're probably looking for is some extra speakers. More speakers means you can buy a simple CD-playing hi-fi and expand it. You can buy pretty much any speaker set and run wires around the house back to the stereo system. If, however, you prefer a neater solution, consider wireless speakers. These generally use a transceiver, which plugs into almost any hi-fi and beams the music over radio frequencies to speakers that can be switched on or off.For something basic, try the HPL200 speakers from Connected Essentials. While they won't give you brilliant sound quality, for about &pound;70 they are probably adequate for basic listening and background music.• Email your problems togadget.clinic@guardian.co.uk
The name Alfa Romeo serves to create an image of the caricature Italian uomo: the alpha male heartbreaker, a man who is neither a stranger to the mirror nor a martyr to reliability. But what works between the sheets doesn't necessarily deliver on the streets. Or should that be the other way round?Either way, the Alfa enjoys a reputation for appearance that has often not been matched by acclaim for its performance. And seldom has this distinction been more glaring than with the original Alfa Romeo Brera. When a prototype was first shown at the 2002 Geneva Motor Show, grown men wept, maidens swooned and poets declaimed the coming of the future.It was lithe, handsome, cool, as if the designer Giorgetto Giugiaro had taken the DNA of the then Italian football captain, Paolo Maldini, and, through the application of advanced biophysics, reconfigured it in the molecular setting of an automobile. Had the experiment been left at that, as a beautiful concept, then we could still be laying flowers on its grave.Instead, Alfa went ahead and manufactured the car to a chorus of disappointment. Though it still looked like Maldini, it moved like Terry Mancini. The steering was heavy, the suspension clunky, making it an uncomfortable ride by comparison with competitor two-door coup&eacute;s such as the Audi TT.And so Alfa went back to the drawing board. Or rather, they hired the British engineering experts Prodrive, the company behind Aston Martin, to go back to the drawing board. The result is the Alfa Romeo Brera S.The first things you notice, after the famous V-mouthed grill, are the wheels. In place of spokes, the rim is supported by five aluminium circles, as if it were some kind of Olympic chariot, or perhaps a hi-tech wheel clamp. This is all part of an effort to lighten the car - a plan that does not appear to have included the doors, which are weighty enough to provide, from a sitting position, the sort of physical challenge that obviates the need for gym membership.Inside there is much to admire. The red stitching on the black Pella Frau upholstery is better tailoring than anything in my wardrobe - who needs to drive the car when you can simply wear it? - while the sunken dials on the dashboard offer a flavour of bella figura Italy that you can almost taste: "Benzina", "Olio", "Acqua", they read, less like mechanical indicators than ingredients in a Tuscan recipe. "Just add Benzina for tastiest results!"But does it sizzle? Does it really cook? Is it, in the immortal words of Marvin Gaye, hot just like an oveeen? There is undoubtedly a promising and pleasing purr when you press the ignition button, the kind of noise that says "fasten seatbelts" and lets your neighbours shake with fear and envy.It's a perfect prowling car, conveying the impression that only the smallest flex of the right ankle will propel you into hyperspace. And it's an impression that remains utterly convincing right up until the moment the right ankle is flexed - at which point it becomes apparent that, when it comes to a snappy power drive, the Alfa scores a Beta. Some might say that the Brera is all mouth and trousers. But that would be harsh. There's some lovely red stitching, too.Alfa Romeo Brera SPrice:£23,995Top speed139mphAcceleration0-62 in 8.6 secondsConsumption30.7mpgCO² emissions218g/kmEco rating4/10At the wheelJamie OliverBound forChiantishireIn a wordBella
I first heard about the principles of what is now called the "cloud" but was then called "network computing" at a talk given many years ago by Larry Ellison. Ellison's fortune (he is one of the richest men on the planet) came from Oracle, a leading database and "enterprise" computing company. Enterprise software and computing can be thought of as a kind of proactive intranet, a closed system that "powers" (don't you just hate the current use of that verb?) everything from business databases to the corporate accounts of BlackBerry users.Enterprise systems will tend to hold applications and files on servers. A server is a dedicated storage and processing computer designed transparently to handle tasks for a network of individual "client" computers, the ones humans actually use. Think of client computers as having screens and keyboards, while servers are stored in racks. The old model of computing required applications to be installed on desk/laptops, each machine an autonomous island. Bridges were built between them by disk-swapping and LAN connection. Even today, most of us will use our computers this way, but now with memory sticks instead of floppies and the internet instead of LAN. People often save data online in the ether or "cloud" simply by keeping it on their gmail or hotmail folders. How many times have you sent yourself a photo just so you can have a copy of it online? But many of us are beginning to dabble in true online applications and storage, in cloud computing. The advantage is that files can be created, stored and accessed from any online computer in the world. The network holds not only your files, but the applications that create them, while your computer is, as in the early days, little more than a dumb terminal. A stolen laptop becomes a nuisance like a lost chequebook - a bit of password changing and ringing round, perhaps, but the valuable data is stored elsewhere. We save to the cloud and only back up to our computer.If you want to put a head in the clouds, I recommend a number of services. Google has a full online office suite, but if you feel that the big G is powerful enough, thank you, thenzoho.comoffers a similar, if not even richer, range. Web applications can now mimic desktop software, so the kinds of keyboard shortcuts used on your desktop spreadsheet programme, for example, are now possible on the web equivalent. For those too bohemian to be attracted by anything smelling of an office, there isjooce.com, which gives users a customisable desktop and Instant Messaging tools - worth a look just to show you how far the online virtual desktop environment can go.Apple's .Mac service allowed online storage for years in the shape of a virtual "iDisk" before it was recently rebranded as MobileMe (Mac or PC), which horrible name was attended by a spectacularly flaky launch. The service, now stable and working, allows contacts and calendar information as well as email to be "pushed" - in other words, arrive without you having to collect it. My PA and I each have my diary on our iPhones. When we amend an entry, the alteration more or less instantly appears on the other's phone as well as on the MobileMe online web apps and all computers logged into the same account. There are problems: full synchronisation with Google's more function-rich calendar relies on third-party utilities; alterations and additions are not "flagged"; the push sometimes needs a push itself in the form of a manual synchronisation, but it points to how things will be.SugarSync.comis an online file-storage service that comes with excellent applications for iPhone, Windows Mobile, BlackBerry and, shortly no doubt, Google Android. If you have coverage, you can access all the files on all your computers. They don't even need to be online, for all is on the server, all is in the cloud.Google, Zoho and Jooce cost nothing. MobileMe and SugarSync charge, so I suggest taking advantage of their free trial offers. Security? Ah, well, that's a whole other ball of wax. Are your jewels safer at home or in someone else's safety deposit box? Questions don't get mooter.Initials of the weekLANLocal area network. The original pre-web 'intranet', a localised network, typically connected by ethernet cables.
Whatever herproblems at least Britney can singMuxtape is deadbut someone's done the same thing with YouTube clipsWhat happensto a McDonald's burger if you keep it in a box for 12 yearsWhere to seeCourtney Love throwing makeup at Madonna and some other great drunk TV momentsHow to stay awakeat workAt last, a website for bicycle races on a boardLifeinside a North Korean games arcadeA cautionary talefor horses addicted to booze and drugs
According to this splendid nest of football gossip and humour, Dennis Wise's dream team - which was found after a scrap of paper fell out of his pocket in an East End pie and mash shop - for Newcastle United includes Gary Oldman in defence with Danny Baker up front and Dick Van Dyke as the the new caretaker manager. While the above may not be wholly true, if you're concerned about Gary Lineker's girlfriend or the latest WAG standings this is the place to keep up. Elsewhere there's news, rumours, videos and a "Sporn" gallery of sporting photos that could be mistaken for something mildly unsettling.
If,like Greg, you were disappointed by the Nintendo DSi announcment, you may be more interested in the winter games line-up revealed today. First up, the Wii Speak channel is set to launch on November 16, allowing users of the Wii Speak microphone bundled with Animal Crossing: City Folk (or sold separately) to engage in conference video calls with friends and relatives. From the press release:Wii Speak lets people in up to four locations who have traded Friend Codes chat with one another at no extra cost. When you use Wii Speak in real time, your Mii appears on your TV screen and mimics your chat. You also can leave audio messages for your friends and family members or use Wii Speak to narrate captions for your photos.Meanwhile, there's lots of new WiiWare stuff on the way......including, surely not, Tetris Party a NEW version of the mildly successful puzzler, this time boasting 10 never-before-seen single-player and multiplayer variations of Tetris. Apparently a couple will use the motion sensing capabilities of the Wii Remote and even the Wii Balance Board. I'm also looking forward to a conversion of stunning indie title World of Goo, whichI've written about beforeand is, quite frankly unmissable. The critter-collecting game Boingz fromNinjaBee, looks sweet as well.As for 2009, Nintendo is preparing a Wii version of arcade box-'em-up Punch Out, complete with several classic opponents, and a sequel to – no, this can't be right… it is! –Sin &amp; Punishment, the on-rails N64 shooter from Treasure. On DS we can expect Mario &amp; Luigi RPG 3 and something called Rhythm Heaven, which you can probably picture just from the title, but apparently involves tapping your stylus on the screen in time to the beat.According to Nintendo World Report, several GameCube titles were also ear-marked for Wii update during Nintendo's recent autumn press conference – among them, Mario Tennis, Pikmin, Donkey Kong: Jungle Beat, Chibi-Robo and Metroid Prime.
This week's post from the gamesblog.MondayTen mobile games for autumn, Part 1Computer games are an asset to mathsDS redesign: why does everything ahve to be everythin else?Xbox Live down - what are you doing today instead?TuesdayTen mobile games to brighten your Autumn, Part 2iPhone gaming helps mobile live up to the hypeWednesdayOperation Sleeper Cell: one ARG can save the worldHardware rumoursVideogame industry says, 'Screw you financial global meltdown!'ThursdayNintendo DSi fails to exciteFridayFifa '09 is really rather goodFinding ShoreditchGrand Master Flash FinalistsNintendo's winter games
They're live! This year'sGrand Master Flash Golden Joystick nominees- the indie games to be voted for by you, have landed on the Channel 4 website, and by gum they're awesome. As part of theadvisory boardwhich chose them, I have to say that these ten are the best of a great bunch. Marvel at the clever game design! Stare in awe at the stunning graphics! Lose hours to the hilarious japes!And for goodness sake,vote. There's £5000 in game design cash up for grabs, folks. And I swear, they are all awesome. In no particular order:*Lead-em-upAnts*Freaky video-basedFour in a Row* Speed-a-thonGun Fu* Pavement-ragerPedesteroids* Samorost-likePencil Rebel* Artistic puzzlerRoul* Grizzly shooterStickman Madness* Slicer-dicerStrawhat Samurai* Breakout-a-thonTikiwop* Robot-loverBogus BunnyRead morehere.
I must admit, this one's here mostly because I really like Frank Kiely's work - but wouldn't this make an amazing look for a PSN, DS or Xbox Live game? There are elements of Rez and a hint of Sega's DS dating sim Rub Rabbits. Kiely has a solo exhibition at theFerreira Projectsgallery in East London between January 17 and February 14 - a major part of it will be an 'interactive' painting of Shoreditch. I wasn't sure what was meant by the term 'interactive' so contacted the gallery's director, Christian Ferreira who told me:"As with a lot of Kiely's work there will be hidden elements in it - similar to a Where's Wally book. The viewer is encouraged to locate these hidden elements and in turn examine the image - thus studying the local area, which most, often disregard. It is not intended as "treasure hunt' but ideally the viewer will look at the local area with renewed vigour. "I like the idea of art that gets people to really look at and appraise where they live, and there's definite potential for a GPS/location-based game, based around encouraging players to explore and re-assess their surroundings. It's something that the pioneers of augmented reality are working toward - you may rememberthe augmented reality Pac Man gameand I just mentionedWiFi Armyin my last Technology column. One day every journey will be a game.
Microsoft's Xbox 360 games console has been doing relatively well in Japan, which shows the value of concentrating on Japanese role-playing games, or the value of price cutting, or the value of not giving in easily, or something. The latest report is that on Media Create's numbers for September, Xbox 360 sold 54,793 units, "far out pacing the PS3, which sold 8275 units for the week and only 31,798 units for the month" saysgamesindustry.biz.Whether it's a flash in the pan remains to be seen, but Microsoft must be slightly chuffed, considering its mainly disastrous performance in Japan up to now.However, many serious gamers are still sitting on their hands, in the hope that the newJasper motherboard will appear soon. This is the one with a 65nm GPU (Valhalla) that people think will make the Red Ring of Death a thing of the past. It was expected in August, or September, or October, but so far there has been no verified sighting (unless you know different).Most unsportingly, Microsoft does not seem to have packed these Xbox 360s in a new bright red case with aDayGlo®JASPER sticker on the outside of the box.The nice things about circuit reductions is that they not only make the system run cooler, and use less power, they also mean more chips per wafer and therefore lower production costs. The Xbox now starts at a lower price than an antique-technology Wii.However, I suspect that has more to do with Nintendo failing to keep up with demand for the Wii, and cutting the price would just make things worse. (It would also reduce Nintendo's high level of profits, but they probably haven't thought about that.)I guess the wheeler-dealers are now buying Wii consoles, which they will sell for twice the price on Christmas Eve, when the shops are bare, then buy a Jasper Xbox 360 in the January sales. But I think I have to finishHorace Goes Skiingfirst. (Ignore the Frogger rip-off: it gets better.)
Oh, Lordy, Gordon Ramsay must be sick as a parrot now that his record for melting the bleep machine is being threatened by Joe Kinnear, the manager of Newcastle United.But while there are some bleeped-out versions of the interview around, we thought it would be useful to recreate it, using the wonders of Applescript and Apple's built-in machine voices. So we've taken thetranscriptand done a quick-and-dirty (in all senses) audio of it. Please, cover your ears and listen. Take it away, Joe...
Is there anything duller than a Man Utd/Liverpool/Chelsea/Arsenal "fan" – who invariably has been to one, maybe two live games at best – telling you how much they care about "their" team.  Yawn.  These people would have always bought FIFA over Pro Evolution Soccer. Generalisation?  Sure, but you get the point. PES was always the game for real fans of real teams, not just the Sky/100k-a-week/Prem only mainstream. But things might, just might, have changed. This year's FIFA is a bit of a revelation.Ok, I've only had code for a couple of days but so far so good. Off the pitch there are host of new features that show promise. I signed up to theLive Seasonservice - one league is free - which supposedly adds real life current form data into the game. It's too early to really tell if it makes a difference but Spurs and Newcastle both lost the games I played so maybe there is something to it. General online play is pretty much lag free too – a joy compared to the laggy mess of PES online. The new 10 vs 10 online *sounds* fantastic but I've yet to find enough players to test it. This shouldn't be a problem from today so fingers crossed.But FIFA has never had a problem with matters off field. It's the on pitch stuff that needed fixing. The good news then is that FIFA '09 is the closest one yet to replicating the fluid action seen in PES. It's not quite there yet – the players still don't feel *quite* as responsive as they do in PES – but the difference is far less marked than before. And when it comes to heading FIFA wins out, with players having much more control on where they place their header. I scored a fantastic glancing header last night against Portsmouth. Ok, it may have been a consolation for the Southampton but it felt like a winner.The game looks the part too – with players pointing where they want the pass and the bigger players running in the style of their real-life counterparts. Up close though the players still look like freakish zombies. And get out of the top leagues and likenesses go out the window. Yes, I'm sure most punters won't care thatAdam Lallanalooks nothing like he does in real life but when you have the correct kit, team and player names it does annoy.  Maybe this will be sorted by FIFA 2019?But don't go thinking your PES/FIFA decision is a no-brainer. After a relatively disappointing – but still highly playable – couple of PES releases, 2009 is threatening to be a return to form.  From what I've played – the demo is out now – the game feels slightly slower than last year, which has to be a good thing. Defending seems easier and more effective now, which comes as a relief after the goalfest that was 2008. Final PES code should be out soon – the game is released in a fortnight – so judgement will have to wait. But it's going to be a tough call. FIFA or PES then – which team are you supporting this year?
What's your favourite piece of technology?Probably the smartphone. Right now, I have aBlackBerry Curve. I've also had a Treo, and I liked that quite a bit. But I'm not one of those people who felt that they had to run out and get an iPhone as soon as it was released ... no offence to those people who had to run out and get an iPhone.How has it improved your life?I'm not sure it's improved my life because it's a kind of a leech – it's always with you, so you feel compelled to check in, but at the same time it relieves the stress of not knowing what's going on. Business happens 24 hour a day, so the ability to reach in your pocket and get an update is a pretty phenomenal piece of technology. Ultimately I think it's a stress reducer, at least for me.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I actually used it right before I called you, because I've been in press interviews all day long and I'm halfway across the world [in London], and I checked in [at the EA office in San Francisco] to see if there were any fires to put out.What additional features would you add if you could?I have to be completely selfish and say I'm waiting for the day when the graphics capabilities are such that we can play some awesome games on these devices. But gaming has become so mainstream that I think everyone can appreciate that. I think it's one of the reasons Nintendo's DS has been so successful.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Certainly this model will – it may be obsolete next month – but I don't think the idea of smartphones will go away. It's just going to become a technology that you expect to have. We won't really imagine life without them.What one tip would you give to non-smartphone users?If you're dragging a laptop around with you anywhere, with any frequency, then get yourself a smartphone.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Do I have to answer that question? I'm a fully-fledged geek.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I'd have to say my hybrid Camry, in terms of new technology rolled up into a vehicle. I have a long commute, and the [fuel] savings have been phenomenal.Mac or PC?PC. I've been playing PC games for a long, long time and that's what it really boils down to – there's just better games on the PC.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?My 12-year-old daughter, who rides in my car quite often, loves a song from the Little Mermaid musical soundtrack, called She's In Love – and she plays it over, and over, and over, and over …Will robots rule the world?I think robots will run the world, I don't think they will ever rule the world. I don't think they will reach a point of self-determination.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Having now owned a hybrid car, I'm really considering getting an electric car. There's a few people at EA who've had them for many years, and are huge appreciators of the electric car movement.Tim LeTourneauis the executive producer ofTheSims 2andMySimsMySims Kingdom will be released in the UK on October 31
I heard the news today. Oh boy. Local councils say that the credit crunch is starting to hit them: rising fuel and food bills are eating into their budgets, and making it harder for them to provide the services that they want to.This piqued my interest because I've spent the past 48 hours trying to get the entries sorted out for you – and anyone else you know – to vote on from the government'sShow Us A Better Waycompetition, which I guess you could call the government's X Factor for Web Services. This is a preliminary round – rather like the bit where some of the most tuneful and tuneless appear on the stage, and Simon Cowell rolls a pen around in his mouth before saying things like "That was simply the worst audition I have ever seen, bar none."Except that you all get to play the Simon Cowell – or Louis Walsh, or Cheryl Cole, or Dannii Minogue – part. It's an open vote to pick the ones that then go to the next stage, where a few ones will be argued over. (Yes, all right, Boot Camp for Web Services.)(If you want to vote now, head right on over tohttp://suabw.uservoice.com, where you'll find the full – well, apart from a few stragglers which you'll find at theSUABWsite.)And the connection with local councils? Because as I worked through the entries, trying to format them for the slightly pernickety uploading services atUservoice(which otherwise provides a great, free service for user-generated feedback), I noticed that lots of the entries seemed to be coming from people who wanted better access to what their councils are doing.A quick recap. Show Us A Better Way is a competition with a £20,000 prize where entries are intended to suggest innovative and useful web service applications for the mass of government-held data (both central and local). The prize will be used to set up the service; the efforts of Tom Watson, the Cabinet Office minister (at least, pending the reshuffle), were key in making it happen. And he pushed it through because he finds the arguments of the Free Our Data campaign persuasive: that by making government-generated non-personal data available for free re-use, you encourage new businesses and applications - thus generating jobs, and taxes.What's interesting, as I say, is how much people want local information. Completely at random, there'sYouth Space, which would be "An information centre for young people showing local resources for recreation, education, health, employment and generally promoting social cooperation." Beside it isRate My Park, "A searchable website allowing parents, children and young people to find local recreation areas &amp; share opinions about facilities". (These links go to the original SUABW site; to find them to vote on, see the full list on Uservoice.) Again and again, what people are asking for is better internet access to things going on around them - schools, nurseries, parks, planning applications, jobs, air quality, the local recycling centre (with webcams!), council tax band calculation, the green-ness of your street; and on and on.It's unsurprising, of course; we all live locally, not nationally, and so it's local things we want to know about. But that is clearly where local councils aren't doing it right.At the very least, this competition could give local government website developers some clear ideas for services to develop. And if that sounds expensive, it has to be cheaper than the alternative – where people don't recycle enough, where the council has to print thousands and thousands of leaflets that are ignored, where council staff are endlessly answering the phone to the same queries about schools and nurseries.Yes, it will cost councils something to develop those services. But they're the sort of thing that you only have to do once – and once you have, it gets easier the next time, and the next. That's the sort of way that you get your budgets under control: by not spending money repeating things you don't have to.Noen of this, by the way, should be interpreted as any form of recommendation for or against any of the entries. They're all up for grabs. The question is, which one do you think has the X Factor that means it should go forward to the final judging? Do, please, let us know, by heading over tothe voting area at uservoice.com, having aread of the entries, and casting your vote. If you want, you can roll a pen around your mouth and be rude about the ones you don't like. It's meant to be an enjoyable process, after all.
At a keynote in Japan (liveblogged by Kotaku), Nintendo announced a newDSihandheld games console that will not reach the US until well into next year. Themain featuresare a second camera, an SD card slot, a web browser and a slightly larger screen (with the same rubbish resolution, obviously). AsGreg Howsonasked on our Games blog: "Anyone else ever so slightly underwhelmed?"The SD slot will be useful for music and games downloads, but you lose the slot for GBA games.So it might all be a bit of a non-story unless you can somehow work Apple into the mix, whichBusiness Weekduly does. It says:The new DSi is Nintendo's attempt to answer the threat the company faces from a newcomer to the gaming business: Apple. The Cupertino (Calif.) tech company entered the market with the release of its iPhone 3G in July. While Nintendo predicts strong earnings growth for this year (BusinessWeek.com, 8/29/08), some analysts have worried that Apple will take a chunk of a market that has belonged almost entirely to the DS and Sony's PlayStation Portable.Further:The strategy marks a major shift for Nintendo. Previous versions of the DS were mainly old-fashioned consoles that required cartridges to play games. With the DSi's Wi-Fi and SD card features, Nintendo pushes further into the digital platform business. That puts it squarely in competition against Apple, which has been luring big-name studios to sell downloadable blockbuster games for the iPhone through the App Store.There are reasons why Nintendo might not share this view. First, it has already sold around 82 million DS consoles, and continues to dominate the handheld market despite competition from Sony's PSP. Second, the DS is now old technology, and no doubt extremely profitable for Nintendo. As with the Wii, it could certainly increase sales by cutting the price, should that be necessary.The DSi doesn't sound as though it will prompt DS/DS Lite owners to upgrade. However, there's still a huge market for DS machines among the mums and kids, and most of them are not likely to buy iPhones instead.
It's Friday. It's chat time.
Wolfson Microelectronics, the Edinburgh-based manufacturer of semiconductors, warned yesterday that declining sales of mobile phones, digital cameras and satellite navigation systems would slice up to 20% off its end-of-year revenues.Shares in the company, whose chips are used in devices such as Samsung mobile phones and TomTom satnav devices as well as in Apple's iPod range, dropped nearly 25% yesterday after it said it had seen a "material reduction" in orders over the past few days.Wolfson, which had started to cut jobs in the summer after not being chosen by Apple to supply parts for the latest generation of iPod touch and iPod nano portable devices, said it was suffering from lower demand from all its customers."In recent days, Wolfson has experienced a material reduction in order intake and a higher level of rescheduling of orders across a broad range of applications and customers as they respond to the continued deterioration in consumer confidence," the company said in a trading statement."Based on the information currently available, Wolfson expects fourth-quarter 2008 revenues to be in the range of $45m (&pound;26.9m) to $50m. This reduction from earlier expectations is the result of the general economic environment and not reflective of any material design loss."Wolfson said, however, that third-quarter sales would be in line with previous guidance of between $56m and $62m, but the company has only recently lowered that target.Shares in Wolfson had almost halved in value this year. Yesterday they closed down a further 27.25p at 82.25p. Meanwhile, analysts at stockbroker Panmure Gordon cut their share-price target for Wolfson to 100p from 120p, but maintained their hold rating on the stock. "Market conditions combined with negative newsflow should continue to result in the stock trading well below fundamental value," analyst Nick James said.The latest setback comes a few weeks after analysts at Merrill Lynch issued a buy notice with a target price of 145p. This compares with a price of 565p seen in the middle of 2006.Wolfson had already embarked on cost-cutting measures in response to an earlier downturn in business, shedding 22 jobs. Among those who left in September was Dave Shrigley, the chief executive, who was replaced by Mike Hickey from Motorola. Shrigley said that he was leaving for family reasons.Wolfson designs and develops semiconductor products which are then made by third parties in Taiwan and China. It specialises in performance mixed-signal integrated circuits which are used to convert analogue signals into digital for storing and processing information. Wolfson will report its interim financial figures later this month.
Nokia hit back in its fight against Apple and Google yesterday with its first touchscreen phone and news that its unlimited mobile music service will launch in Britain in two weeks' time.The new touchscreen handset, called the 5800 XpressMusic, is a direct response by the world's largest mobile phone maker to the threat posed by Apple's iPhone and the new G1 device, which uses Google's Android platform and will be launched by T-Mobile in the UK next month.The Finnish company's Comes With Music service is designed to challenge the dominance of iTunes in digital music and to lure consumers away from illegal music-sharing sites by offering them free access to millions of tracks.The first device that includes Comes With Music - the 5310 XpressMusic phone - will go on sale in Britain on October 16 and cost &pound;129.95. It is designed for the pre-pay market and buyers will be able to slot their existing Sim card into it.Nokia hopes the handset will be a big Christmas hit with parents who have become increasingly worried about their children using illegal music-sharing services. The price includes a year's unlimited access to more than 5m tracks from the big four music companies and a handful of independent labels.Though that is fewer tracks than the more than 8m available on iTunes, Nokia Comes With Music users are able to keep all the tracks they have downloaded after a year - although the music will play only on the computer to which they were downloaded or the Nokia phone. Consumers can still buy individual tracks after a year but they must buy a new Nokia Comes With Music device to get unlimited access.Comes With Music is just the latest unlimited mobile music service to launch. UK-based music specialist Omnifone already has an unlimited service called MusicStation Max and the company is also behind the recent launch of another unlimited service from Sony Ericsson, PlayNow Plus.Nokia intends to add the 5800 handset and its existing N95 to the range of Comes With Music devices over the next few months. But both of these phones are more expensive than the 5310 and more suited to the contract market, which means Nokia has to find a mobile phone operator willing to subsidise the handset. The 5800, for instance, has a retail price of &euro;279 (&pound;218) - but that does not include a subscription to Comes With Music.Nokia is still in talks with a number of mobile phone operators about taking its new touchscreen handset, but the mobile phone companies are worried that the Finnish handset maker is encroaching on their turf by offering services such as music direct to customers.T-Mobile, for example, has already snapped up the G1 handset - which is made by Taiwan's HTC - for the British market and Vodafone is understood to have signed a deal to take the first touchscreen BlackBerry device - called the Storm - which is due to be unveiled on this side of the Atlantic next week. O2, meanwhile, is the exclusive network partner in the UK for Apple's iPhone.Nokia's first full touchscreen device will not be its last. According to Jo Harlow, the company's senior marketing vice-president: "This is only one of a portfolio of touch-enabled devices that you will see from Nokia. Here we are focusing on music and entertainment, and touch really enables that. You will see other devices from us that focus on different segments and different needs that touch enables as well." The device has the look and feel of the iPhone but, unlike the iPhone, the camera on the 5800 can take videos and the battery life of the device is better than both the Apple device and the G1.
A panel of US judges has decided to freeze the amount of royalties paid to songwriters for tracks downloaded from the internet – halting Apple's threat to close down its iTunes music store.Although the decision is not due to be made public until Monday, the Guardian understands that the Copyright Royalty Board in Washington has approved a 9.1 cent rate for songwriters on all physical and digital music sales in the US.Lobby groups on both sides had been arguing for a change in the amount of royalties due to songwriters – with Apple even claiming that it would be forced to shut down iTunes if there was an increase.Artists groups had asked for the amount due to songwriters from any sale to be increased from 9 cents to 15 cents, while digital media groups had lobbied for the sum to be dropped to less than 5 cents per track.Both camps became increasingly fraught as the decision date drew closer.Earlier this week it emerged that Apple vice-president Eddie Cue had told the CRB that an increase would most likely force the company to absorb the extra costs, which he called "no alternative at all"."Apple has repeatedly made it clear that it is in this business to make money, and most likely would not continue to operate if it were no longer possible to do so profitably," Cue said.Despite being issued in a letter to the CRB 18 months ago, Apple's statement resurfaced earlier this week as both sides engaged in a bitter public relations battle as they attempted to sway the opinion of the three-person board.The agreement only affects downloads made in the US, with the music industry elsewhere in the world operating under a variety of different regimes and price structures.It is not the first time the panel has courted controversy, however.Earlier this week a coalition of online radio stations forced the US Congress to extend renegotiations concerning the board's contentious decision to drastically increase royalty rates for music streamed over the internet.
You've probably seen the news today aboutthe DSi, Nintendo's successor to their DS handheld. The unexcitingly named DSi adds a camera, SD card slot - useful for music playback and downloads - and slightly larger screens to the basic DS. But that's essentially it. Anyone else ever so slightly underwhelmed? Me too.I don't know what I was expecting though. Maybe the rumours about the Wii HD had got me overhyped generally but a low-spec camera, slimmer case and a download service is hardly getting the pulses racing.But let's face it these incremental hardware updates are nothing new. Sony's PSP handheld is already on version number three – the same, now, as the DS. And you'd have to be a brave person to argue that DS Lite was not a massive improvement on the plastic monstrosity that was theoriginal DS.Of course, like all new toys the DSi is likely to be more appealing when you actually get your hands on one. I initially thought the slim and lite PSP was a pointless and cynical upgrade –a few minutes playing with it and I would never go back to the chunkier original. And my brief hands-on with the PSP 3000 and its lovely screen suggest it will happen again.The DSi is out in Japan next month and Europe next Spring. Tempted? Or staying loyal to your DS Lite?
Google Blog Searchis probably not a product you use, and you may even feel that the main Google search provides more than enough coverage of blogs. Now, however, Google has redone it more like its Google News site, picking out and ranking the top stories according to the volume and freshness of coverage. The problem is that it's still not really good enough.TheOfficial Google Blogsays:Adapting some of the technology pioneered by Google News, we're now showing categories on the left side of the website and organizing the blog posts within those categories into clusters, which are groupings of posts about the same story or event.Fair enough, but why doesn't it pack in as much info as Google News? Why does Google Blog Search use a single-column display instead of the far superior double-column template that works well for Google News? Why reinvent the wheel, and do it not as well? It's a mystery.The other problem is that Google News isn't very good, and there is no sign that the new Google Blog Search will be any better.Google News has a fatal flaw, which is that its news is mostly stale. Stories get "voted" to the top of the heap as more and more sites cover them, but Google has no way of finding and displaying the one or two brilliant items you actually want to read. Instead you have to wait until another 50 (or whatever) sites have picked up and repeated a story, making it "popular", by which time the original has been buried in the morass.Google Blog Search seems to have the same problem. For example, the Technology section's "top stories" at the moment include: Apple could close iTunes if royalties rise (on 52 blogs), Steve Ballmer Talks About "Windows Cloud" (on 45), Apple Squashes the iPhone SDK NDA (on 43) and Rotten Apples - Are Some Mac Pros Releasing Toxic Odors? (on 19). That's yesterday's news.(Google Blog Search does have the same option as Google News: you can search for a term and then view entries for the last hour, last 12 hours, and so on. But it's not as useful as it sounds, and I'd bet it's not widely used.)The result is a pale imitation ofTechmeme, a successful technology news tracker. Google Blog Search's news isn't as fresh as Techmeme's, it isn't presented as well, and it doesn't look as good.However, Google Blog Search may still pick up a following. First, it covers a wide range of topics including video games, movies, television and sport. In some areas, it may be better than the alternatives. Second, being part of the Google empire should enable it to attract lots of ordinary users who aren't news junkies, and are perfectly happy to pick up the top stories over the past 12-24 hours.
I've been scratching my head about Apple'sthreat to close iTunesif songwriter royalties increase. And not just because of the convenient timing, given that the written submission was made more than a year ago, but in a couple of hours America's Copyright Royalty Board will finally make a decision on where to set the rates. (Update:My sources say that the Copyright Royalty Board havedecided to keep the royalty rate static)I'm confused because of reactions like that of Techcrunch's Eric Schonfeld, who says that the whole situation means it'sclear to him that the answer is a revenue sharing model, where artists get nothing until there's profit all round.I suppose that's no surprise from a website that has previously said that "recorded music is nothing but marketing material to drive awareness of an artist". (that statement incensed me so much I wrote aseriesofpostson the topic)This wrong-headed thinking not only punishes the people we should be supporting (the creators) but it also plays neatly into Apple's hands. Why?Listen: Apple are never going to shut down iTunes. Yes, it's been a useful little earner, but it's really about selling iPods. It's part of the lock-in which has helped them dominate hardware sales and music downloads.If we move to a revenue-sharing model for music, what's to stop Apple protecting its position by simply undercutting its own prices?It's not entirely clear, butestimatessuggest that iTunes brought Apple between $200m and $570m profit last year. The iPod business is worth many time more - Piper Jaffray's Gene Munstersuggestedthe iPod Touch was worth more than $3bn alone last year.With numbers like that, it's clear that protecting iPod sales is more important to Apple - and so, if revenue-sharing arrived, it would be able to afford a loss-leader approach. That's what supermarkets do: sell bread so that you'll come in and buy other overpriced crap instead. The profits are miniscule for bread makers, but people still sell the supermarkets bread, because you can't afford not to supply the biggest part of the market.That's how the cross-subsidy model operates, and it worksreallywell if you've got a monopoly-sized share of the market.Apple dominates music downloads already. It could start a price war. And if it did that, revenue sharing would be down the toilet, because there wouldn't be any profits to spread around. And yet even in this case, people would still have to cut deals with Apple because they're dominant. Yeah, you could go elsewhere... but if the market's run by iTunes then you're not going to get much more anywhere else.Still, perhaps that doesn't matter if recorded music is just marketing material.Oh, and all this isn't even starting on the fact that maybe - just maybe - there are other parts of the chain that can afford to pinch more than the songwriters.Cut back to the basics: out of the 99 cents charged for an iTunes download in America, songwriters currently get 9 cents, Apple takes 29 cents and the record labels take another 61 cents.Look at those numbers. Why does anyone think the artists are getting the best part of this deal?
Nokia has hit back in its fight against Apple and Google with the unveiling of its first touchscreen device and news that its unlimited mobile music service will launch in the UK in two weeks' time.The new touchscreen handset, called the 5800 XpressMusic, is a direct response by the world's largest mobile phone maker to the threat posed byApple's iPhone and the new G1 device, which uses Google's Android software and will be launched by T-Mobile in the UK next month.The Finnish company's Comes With Music service, meanwhile, is designed to challenge the dominance of iTunes in digital music andlure consumers away from illegal music sharing sitesby offering them free access to millions of tracks.The first device that includes Comes With Music - the 5310 XpressMusic phone - will go on sale in the UK on October 16 and cost £129.95. It is designed for the pre-pay market and buyers will be able to slot their existing SIM card into it.Nokia hopes the handset will be a big Christmas hit with parents who have become increasingly worried about their kids using illegal music sharing sites.The price includes a year's unlimited access to over 5m music tracks from the big four music companies and a handful of independent labels.While that is fewer tracks than the more than 8m available on iTunes, after a year Nokia Comes With Music users get to keep all the tracks they have downloaded - although they will only play on the computer to which they were downloaded or the Nokia phone. Consumers can still buy individual tracks after a year, but to get unlimited access they need to buy a new Nokia Comes With Music device.The device is just the latest unlimited mobile music service. UK-based music specialist Omnifone already has an unlimited service called MusicStation Max and the company is also behind the recent launch ofanother unlimited service from Sony Ericsson, called PlayNow Plus.Nokia intends to add the 5800 and its existing N95 to the range of Comes WIth Music devices over the next few months. But both of these phones are more expensive than the 5310 and more suited to the contract market, which means Nokia has to find a mobile phone operator willing to subsidise the handset. The 5800, for instance, has a retail price of €279 (£218) but that does not include a Comes With Music subscription.Nokia is still in talks with a number of mobile phone operators about taking its new touchscreen phone but the mobile phone companies are worried that the Finnish handset maker is encroaching on their turf with services such as Comes With Music.T-Mobile, for instance, has already snapped up the G1 handset - which is made by Taiwan's HTC - for the UK market, while Vodafone is understood to have signed a deal to take the first touchscreen Blackberry device - called the Storm - which is due to be unveiled this side of the Atlantic next week. O2, meanwhile, is the exclusive network partner in the UK for Apple's iPhone.In time for Christmas?Nokia's first full touchscreen device will not be its last. Jo Harlow, the company's senior vice president, marketing said: "This is only one of a portfolio of touch enabled devices that you will see from Nokia. Here we are focusing on music and entertainment and touch really enables that. You will see other devices from us that focus on different segments and different needs that touch enables as well."The 5800 will start shipping later this year and Nokia is hoping it will be available in the UK in time for Christmas. But the company, which makes four out of every ten mobile phones sold worldwide, is not looking to ape Apple and do an exclusive deal with just one operator."This will be available in all operators, we are not looking at limiting the availability," she said.The device has the look and feel of the iPhone. Like the Apple device, rotating it causes the screen to switch from portrait to landscape and double clicking on a web page causes it to zoom in.But unlike the iPhone, the camera on the 5800 can take videos, at near film-like 25 frames a second "which for the YouTube generation is great for being able to record video and upload it directly", according to Harlow. The battery life of the device is also better than both the iPhone and the G1.The 5800 and G1 share some characteristics such as tactile feedback. Pressing on an icon causes the phone to vibrate slightly, this is particularly useful when using the qwerty keypad on the touchscreen as it makes it easier to judge which key is being depressed. The keys also change colour when pressed.The G1, of course, has its own full keypad which slides out from under the device, an added extra that makes it the largest of the three rival touchscreen phones.
In aninterview with the BBC, Steve Ballmer has said that Microsoft is a David to Google's Goliath, and acknowledged that the company's share of search "is in the single-digit range, and noted how Google is now the "cute darling" of the technology world. You know, as Microsoft was before those "legal things". (He'd have to narrow it down. Which legal thing? The first or second antitrust row?)Ballmer says that search is his "favourite business" because when you have nothing the only way is up: "Everything is possible, we have nothing to lose." (Of course, you can also just continue along flatlining. But his salesman's instinct probably won't let him consider that.)The bid for Yahoo was "a tactic not a strategy", he told Rory Cellan-Jones - which is a very worrying phrase, since it means he either doesn't know the difference between the two (tactics are short-term, and may appear to be completely wrong; strategy is long-term and validates the tactics) or he was really serious about just acquiring another company for billions just because it was a Friday.It's all written up in ablog post (with video)by Cellan-Jones, and inthis news story.He's critical too of Google's Android:But Mr Ballmer said an open-source solution would not be attractive to phone manufacturers, and predicted that Windows Mobile phones would stay ahead of Blackberry, Apple's iPhone and Google Android in the smartphone market."You've got to remember Android is version one....and it looks like version one," he said."They've got one handset maker, we've got 55. They're available through one operator, we've got 175."Those, it seems to me, are dangerous words. There's a scent of hubris. Like Goliath before meeting David.
It's time to chat.
My four year-old Evesham Axis 64 MKR PC generally works fine. However, I guess that components such as the hard disk and power supply must be reaching the end of their reliable lives. I am keen to avoid a loss of data or of service. What approach to renewal would offer a good balance of the pragmatic and the sustainable?Paul MartinThe Axis 64 MKR was a good machine in its day, had a good graphics card, and it seems its 2.2GHz AMD Athlon 64 3500+ processor still does all you need. However, it's worth upgrading from 512MB of memory to at least 1GB, and you should really have done this sooner rather than later.Hard drives fail, but running a drive checker such as HDD Health (panterasoft.com) will monitor its performance and predict how long it will last. (It expects my hard drive to last until 2017.) You should already have all your data backed up to CD or DVD, but you can also buy an external USB hard drive and "ghost" a complete backup of your system using Acronis True Image or similar software. This would soon get you up and running again after a drive failure. The extra RAM should keep your Axis going for another couple of years, and the cost of the external drive would not be wasted because you'll still be able to use it when you buy a new PC.However, if HDD Health detects hard drive problems, it would be worth replacing it with a bigger, faster drive, and it might be worth considering a new PC.
I have a 2003 computer. I now want to increase my hard disk space from its current 80GB (with 80GB external disk backup) to 500GB (similarly backed up) to cope with the large number of RAW photographs I am now producing. I have discovered that this is not as simple as just buying a new hard drive and sticking it in. Would it be best just to buy a new computer?John WardNowadays, thanks to autoconfiguration routines, adding a second hard drive as a slave is almost as simple as just buying a new hard drive and sticking it in. A quick Google will find lots of guides and even YouTube videos to help. At worst, you might have to find Windows' Disk Management utility -- go to the Control Panel's Administrative Tools folder, select Computer Management, then click Disk Management -- to set up the drive.It's probably not worth buying a new PC unless you need the extra power to edit copies of large RAW files, which can be a strain on old PCs. It often is worth buying a new PC to get improvements in two or more areas, such as for example if you need more memory, more hard drive space, more memory, a faster processor etc.Backchat: John Thow warns that his old computer's BIOS chip is unlikely to recognise an internal hard drive larger than 137GB, adding: "I was looking for a 120GB HDD for a client with a machine of similar age the other day and found that no one makes them any more."While John Ward can add a much larger external hard drive, John Thow adds: "It is also likely that a computer of that age will have only USB 1 support, so it would also be advisable to get a USB 2 PCI card for about £15 to improve the data transfer rate."
I am being plagued by a full-page message that pops up when I am browsing. It warns of "Insecure Internet activity. Threat of virus attack" and says "Click here to get full advanced real-time protection and continue browsing". Needless to say, I don't trust this, and have not downloaded anything - at least as far as I know.Glyn CollinsPutting up fake spyware or antivirus alerts, and making them look the same as Microsoft Windows alerts, seems to be the latest fashion. From the full message, the fake antivirus software in this case is KvmSecure, which is a nasty Trojan. You may just have a minor adware problem. However, if you have the Trojan, you may need to use a strong removal tool such as Malwarebytes:Beeping Computer has instructions. Remember to back up essential data first, and change important passwords afterwards.
We don't want Windows Security Center to keep popping up on our screen, but as complete novices have no idea how to stop it. We already use McAfee.Dave DaviesThe Windows Security Center in Windows XP SP2 and Vista monitors four areas: Firewall, Automatic Updating, Malware Protection and Other Security Settings. It doesn't usually pop up unless you are operating your PC in an insecure manner, or the alternative software that you have installed is sending it incorrect notifications.However, you can turn off the alerts from the Security Center. Simply click where it says "Change the way Security Center alerts me" in the left-hand pane. If you can't run WSC from the SysTray, go to Control Panel and select Security Center, or go to the Start menu's System Tools folder, or in Vista, start typing Security in the Start menu search box. Bear in mind that if you disable Windows Security Center, you will be making your PC less secure.
An icon looking like a notebook has appeared from nowhere on my desktop. It has GEAREXT underneath. Should I be worried?Glenda WellumYou can right-click on the icon and select Properties: that should tell you something about it. You can also right-click, select "Open with" and open it in Notepad. (This will work whether it's a text file or not, though a big file could take a long time to load.) If you find it contains a list of CDs that you have burned, then it's a log file from one of Gear Software's DVD and CD burning programs (gearsoftware.com).
Expect to see a slowdown in smartphone sales and a concomitant growth in the use of open source, cloud computing and virtualisation technology as consumers cut back on their "discretionary" purchases while businesses, strapped for credit (because banks won't have it to lend), decide to make the best of what they've got and squeeze the last possible drops of life from the hardware they have, while reducing costs on software as far as possible.The fact that consumers are going to draw in their horns was behind the abrupt drop in Apple's share price on Monday, after two analysts each cut by $60 (&pound;34) their "target" prices for the stock: RBC Capital's Mike Abramsky from $200 to $140, and Morgan Stanley's Kathryn Huberty from $178 to $115. (Apple was trading at about $110 on Tuesday, having lost about 15% of its value in the Monday selloff of Nasdaq-listed stocks.)Tim Bray, director of web technologies at Sun Microsystems, put it simply on his Twitter feed (twitter.com/timbray): "Prediction: some pretty severe breakage in the technology industry," he suggested, adding: "Suppose nobody wants to do capital investment but you still gotta get work done. I'm thinking cloud cloud cloud cloud cloud." The advantage of cloud computing such as Amazon's S3 being that it is pay-by-use, rather than capital-intensive.The squeeze will also push companies towards open-source models, since those don't require expensive licences as well as expensive support. That could be a threat to Microsoft - something that its chief executive Steve Ballmer may have had in mind when he spoke on Tuesday in Norway. "When businesses have less money - they can borrow less money, they can spend less money - that can't be good. When consumers feel the economic pinch, house prices come down. That can't be good," Ballmer said. Most of the big companies, though, don't need to tap banks for the "commercial paper" - short-term large, renewable loans - that has led to the frozen credit markets. Apple and Microsoft have billions in the bank. But telecoms companies often have to get commercial paper to fund big investments.Meanwhile, for those aiming to start technology businesses, it might - ironically enough - be slightly easier than before to get venture capital cash. That's because the people who have money need to find somewhere to invest it. Gold? Oil? US Treasury bonds? All are a rollercoaster right now. Finding a company with a really good idea and business plan - preferably not reliant only on advertising - looks, by contrast, like an excellent way to make money. After all, in 1976, when Apple was founded, US unemployment was 8.5% and inflation was 8.9%; at present the comparable numbers are 6.1% and 5.4%. But of course in 1976 the US was coming out of recession. Now? It's anyone's guess how bad it will get.
When anything electrical in your home breaks down, you know it is going to cost you - and not just in money: there's waiting time too. But with the credit crunch all around, the internet is tempting more people to save money by having a go at fixing things themselves.When Yvette Worth's oven packed up she knew that if she got someone in to fix it, it would be aggravation all the way. "I work full time," she says. "I imagined having to stay away from work all day, waiting around for someone to come and look at the oven, um and aah, suck their teeth and tell me they'd have to order a part and come back next Friday."So Worth decided to get online and see if she could find out how to fix the oven herself. "I thought it can't be that mystical, maybe I can have a go at this. I found a website [ukwhitegoods.co.uk] which contains guides for spotting what is wrong with various appliances." Having established that she needed a new heating element costing &pound;20, she ordered it online.The new element arrived quickly and Worth consulted the website again for its guide to replacing oven elements."It worked, that was a month ago and it's still going strong."Worth is not alone. David Still has had a go at fixing several essential pieces of kit after reading up on the ins and outs of them on the internet. He's had mixed results: "I fixed my satnav after my daughter sat on it, breaking the screen. I could have sent it off to get someone else to fix it for around &pound;100 or send off for a part for about &pound;25. So I took the cheaper option and installed the new screen following the internet instructions." The results are dubious. The screen is orange on startup, but after giving the case a twist it generally gets back to normal, he says.Piece by piece"I had more success with my PC. The whole thing just conked out so I went online and tried all out all kinds of suggestions, and worked out that it needed a new hard drive. I ordered a new one for about &pound;50 or &pound;60. I generally go to three or four sites when looking for help with repairing stuff as some explain better and some have better diagrams. Each one seems to leave little bits out and reading a few gives you a better picture of what's going on."Still has had other successes with fixing hardware. He says: "I've also fixed my dishwasher and washing machine with help from the web." Some of the sites he found helpful for these includewasherhelp.co.ukanddiynot.com.Still says he would not claim to be a natural at DIY. He says he will only have a go if if he thinks he can save himself money - and he's not the only one. A report published last month byeSpares.co.uk, which sells spare parts for household goods, found that more than half of the 2,500 people it surveyed will have a go at repairing their appliances themselves before calling for professional help or replacing the products. Saving money was the main reason given, but respondents said they also wanted to lengthen the lifespan of their appliances.However, there are risks. First, you will almost certainly invalidate any warranties on the appliance if you open it up yourself. And, of course, you could make the situation worse, not better, while the usual warnings about electricity should be heeded - turn it off at the mains before you get stuck in."I'd say we get about two calls a month from people who have unsuccessfully tried to repair an appliance themselves and often they only make matters worse, says Nigel Bell, managing director of appliance repair company GT Electrical."People are fearful of calling someone out because of the cost, but we often find that they've bought the spare part themselves and have no idea how to fit it and they make a complete hash of it. Putting a new belt on a tumble drier is one we find people often try to do themselves without success. Then our engineers literally have to go along and pick up the pieces."Kenneth Watt, managing director of UK White Goods, says that many appliance repairs are quite straight forward, but there are instances where you do really need to call in the professionals. "It's generally not rocket science," he says. "But for quite a few repairs we do advise people not to go there, because you really do need a professional who knows exactly what they are doing."Cold comfortHe says: "Refrigeration, for example, needs a lot of specialist knowledge. If you get it wrong and the food isn't stored at the right temperature, it can be pretty grim for your health, so you don't want to be making a mistake there."He also warns that the manufacturers are increasingly taking steps to ensure that only their accredited repairers can repair their machines. "Many of the big manufacturers are now producing machines that have to be reset and reprogrammed with their own company laptops, using their own specialist programs."So before you roll up your sleeves, make sure that you know what you're doing and aren't about to make an expensive mistake.
Forget Brain Training, the best way to exercise your grey matter is with Civilization Revolution on the DS. The classic strategy series has been slimmed down for Nintendo's handheld console, but there is plenty to do and the action is as addictive as ever. The general goal remains the same. You'll be building cities, exploiting natural resources, growing your army and conquering other civilisations (there are 16 different nationalities to choose from). Alternatively, you can eschew force for learning and blind your opponents with science. Civilization has always had a learning curve and Revolution is no different. However, a handy tutorial and intuitive controls make this version of the game relatively easy to pick up and play. Online play is included, which is handy if you can find someone to stick around for the hour or so it takes to play a game. Engaging and incredibly addictive, Civilization Revolution is brain training for megalomaniacs.
Balancing act? We've heard of itOnce, we feared being enslaved by all-powerful armies of robots. No need to worry: their makers are too busy building models which can ride a bike, and others which can unicycle.bit.ly/youc38Casualty of the loudness warsWe've written here about the effects of modern compression techniques on the dynamic range of music; here though is the visual and aural explanation by an expert of what really happens.bit.ly/youc39Soundfile: Apple cash registerEver wondered if you could compose a song using the system noises on Apple's Mac OS X? Too late - it's been done.bit.ly/youc40&#183;Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
This mission pack for Crytek's masterful FPS adds a hefty new single-player campaign to a slightly tweaked engine. And it's still delightful to play, with vast, open-ended locations bristling with aliens and memorable set-pieces. From start to finish (which comes all too quickly), Warhead never lets up. If you wanted to quibble, the idea of revisiting the original plot from a different character's perspective sometimes feels like a substitute for all-new ideas, but this is still a beautifully balanced game. And with Far Cry 2 almost upon us, it's a timely reminder of just how far the original creators have already raised the bar.
Dell is still finding it an uphill struggle to persuade its customers to take part in its "Plant a Tree for Me" scheme. Under this plan, customers can choose to spend an extra &pound;1 per notebook or &pound;3 per desktop to offset its estimated carbon emissions for the next three years.Only 300,000 customers opted to pay the levy during Dell's last financial year, which ended in February, said Tod Arbogast, the company's director of sustainable business. Though he declined to enumerate it, that amounts to between $300,000 (&pound;169,000) and $900,000 of voluntary spending by customers - compared to Dell's revenues of $61.1bn and net profits of $2.97bn. As a percentage of customers, it remains well below the 1% mark - as calculated by the Guardian in August 2007 (How green are Dell's customers in Europe?, August 2 2007,bit.ly/ungreen).But Arbogast insists that Dell is pushing forward with reducing its environmental impact, from investments in renewable energy sources at its Round Rock headquarters in Texas - now powered by a mixture of wind, solar and "methane capture" sources - to buying renewable energy certificates for its suppliers in Asia, to increasing the recyclability of its products. "When we have a used printer cartridge, which comprises copper, some sponge, ink and plastics, we can recover the copper, sponge and plastics," Arbogast said. "In our PCs, the plastic resin used to make them can be reused. We might not be able to use them for a new PC, but there are other uses downstream."Dell's drive to embrace green issues - identified by Michael Dell last year as a key aim for the company - has paid off in other ways, said Arbogast. Getting energy from renewable sources and focusing on reducing energy use by better efficiency had been initially expensive, but the rising price of energy meant that it was now almost the same price, he said.
"Internet tablet" slips so easily off the marketing keyboard, doesn't it? But in the case of the Archos 5 Media Tablet, it actually is true. It's got Wi-Fi. It's got a huge hard drive (60GB for &pound;269 or a mind-numbing 250GB for &pound;349). It's got a pleasingly solid rounded metal case. And the clarity of the 5-inch (12.5-cm) screen is stunning. It's only 800x600, but has 16m colours; I watched various video files on it and marvelled at how clean and crisp the picture was - far better than an iPhone, with no motion blur and plenty of contrast. And it's got a touchscreen as well.Thus, it's a competitor to Apple's iPod Touch; in fact, rather more prolific, since it will play music (MP3, AAC or WMA) or videos (AVI, MP4, WMV) or display photos stored elsewhere on a network, and do it well. Plus, the Wi-Fi link lets it play internet radio stations, and Flash-based games, if you download them from your computer or the web.There's also a web browser, and email (though it can't handle HTML mail). You can actually use the touchscreen keyboard - Apple take note - which appears in both the portrait and landscape orientations. Fat-fingered folk like me (ie, men) will breathe a sigh of relief after pecking fruitlessly at the iPhone/iPod Touch's miniscule onscreen "keys". This is the keyboard Apple should use. Disappointingly, though, the browser only works in portrait, not landscape; and I did expect, when I turned the screen to landscape, that the layout would follow. Apple has set the bar high.There's a standard headphone output. There's a USB output (so you can use it as a hard drive), and various attachments which you can use to connect (at great, proprietary expense) a digital TV tuner, GPS, a helmet-cam (eh??), FM tuner, 3G modem and a DVR "snap-on" so you can record from a TV. It's like a Swiss Army knife for digital content - except that you have to buy most of the knives. I was surprised by the lack of a TV-out connector for an RGB input or Scart connector on your TV; this is obvious functionality for a portable media gadget.Faults beside those? A few. At 250g, it's not light. Sometimes it reacts too slowly, so you're left tapping the screen and thinking it's crashed. The email interface isn't the best: you get a list view, which is surprisingly unhelpful. Still, it's elegant, crisp, silent, and you'd never know unless you asked that it all runs on Linux. Battery life on a brand-new model was well over 12 hours.The product is great. But is it worth it? Sure, if you carry lots of content around with you, such as TV shows you've got in a DRM-free format, to watch on the move, or need to do email and web browsing on the move.Pros:Great screen, interface, connectivityCons:Price, weight, no TV outarchos.com/products/archos5
Wiped outI was surprised that you overlooked Windows Mobile, which offers many of the features you highlighted as lacking in today's mobile world (Who's got your old phone's data?, September 25). With Microsoft Office Outlook web access, you can offer users mobile self-servicing options for common administrative tasks, including device wipe, managing partnerships and Pin recovery.David Weeks,Microsoft UK"There are no tools out there at the moment that let you destroy the data on mobile phones." I have one. It is made by Stanley Tools. It is called a hammer.John Illingworth,BradfordThe price is wrong"Apple offers higher-priced DRM-free music" (Sony's open-market consortium is a wolf in sheep's clothing, September 24,bit.ly/letters5). Er, no. It's the same price as the DRM-encumbered music that three of the major record companies, not Apple, insist on.Simon Aughton,by emailPropogating SporeOne need only look to the recent iPhone App debacle by Spore (Newly Asked Questions, September 25). Spore was a game put out by EA, a very popular one. It came with draconian DRM and in the space of days, a cracked version was leaked and more than a half a million people turned to the cracked one instead of downloading a legitimate one crippled by DRM. EA relented and released a patched version with fewer constraints.dearauthor.com/wordpressSpore is shaped by its users, and this DRM flap may limit adoption and future product opportunities.toc.oreilly.comWho cares?I don't get how this cult and the gang of Wikipedians actually work, but I know recently a group of librarians wanted to start an article on publib (an online mailing list and community), and were not able to do so because - get this - they couldn't provide valid sources [that] were valid, real, or existed (Read me first, September 25). It's a strange, not brave, new world when the info-dis-infomediaries are in charge of the "sum of all human knowledge".drweb.typepad.comJimmy Wales sat for an interview with ad agency exec Liz Ross in front of an Advertising Week audience in New York. Which is odd, because Wikipedia is a nonprofit which doesn't carry advertising, and Wales's for-profit venture, Wikia, isn't very popular. So who cares what he has to say?valleywag.comProper journalismProper print journalist Victor Keegan has made a trip to Cambridge before offering an opinion about the Sony Reader and other devices (A new page in the history of startups, September 25). Good for him. It makes the cost of a newspaper seem cheap.readg.blogspot.comAccounting for spamI've just read about Egham being the "spam capital of Britain" and various towns in Hampshire running it a close second (Surrey town is spam capital of Britain, Observer, September 28). I live in Winchester and I get several hundred spams per day. I have several email accounts and it's interesting to note which ones get the most/least spam. My Yahoo account (which I have given to very few people) gets none. My Hotmail account gets about five a day. This is interesting because I give my Hotmail account to just about everyone. Whether they're just biding their time before they smother me with spam, I have no idea. My Gmail account (which I have also given to very few people) gets 10 to 20 spam emails a day. What's really tiresome is having to check all this dross because my spam filter sometimes sidelines genuine emails.Caroline Andrews,Winchester&#183;Read all this week's letters in full atguardian.co.uk/technology/blogWrite to:LettersTechnologyGuardian119 Farringdon RoadLondon EC1R 3ERTelephone:020 7239 9925Fax:020 7239 9933Email:tech@guardian.co.ukEdited by Charles Arthur
All my friends think I'm bonkers, but I think there's something to be said for a national electronic identity system. Not the card as previewed by the home secretary last week - that programme seems to have been designed by an evil genius to put as many people's backs up as possible. What is needed is a means for citizens to authenticate their identity for electronic transactions with officialdom at a level that satisfies both the state's legitimate need to know who we are and our fellow citizens' confidence that public goods are being handed out fairly.This shouldn't be controversial stuff. If this government or its replacement canned the identity card scheme next month or next year, the need to authenticate would remain. It's at the very heart of what everyone wants to achieve with electronic government: public services centred on the user.For the past 12 years, the idea of citizen-centred government has emerged at regular intervals. The latest incarnation is in a programme called Service Transformation, unveiled two years ago by a chancellor called Gordon Brown. Its big idea is to create a one-stop notification service for big life events, starting with births, changes of address and bereavements.Of the three, bereavement is the obvious priority. Anyone who's ever dealt with a death will be familiar with the grinding trudge of sending multiple copies of the same birth certificate to different arms of the state. At best, it's an upsetting chore; at worst it's an insult.Despite a lack of enthusiasm from ministers, progress has been made. However, a national one-stop notification service won't happen until a multiplicity of state agencies agree on a robust way of authenticating the identity both of the deceased person and the individual making the notification.The way ahead involves approaching the problem from the opposite direction. The purpose of a national identity service should not be for the state to inspect its citizens, but for citizens to inspect the state. Specifically, the core data the government holds on our names, address, date of birth and so on.Other governments already do this. The principle that the personal information is the property of the individual, not the state, was established at the outset of the Netherlands' e-government programme.Last month, our government took an oblique step in that direction when the NHS in England conceded that patients should have the same right as their counterparts in Scotland and Wales to be asked for permission every time their electronic health records are called up on screen. The same principle - with obvious audited exceptions in areas such as law enforcement - should apply to all personal data.But the first step in putting citizens in charge is to establish a means of authenticating identity. Few people want their neighbours looking up their DWP files. The mechanism might require a single national identity infrastructure of the kind envisaged by Service Transformation and the ID card; more likely it would involve the kind of smart use of existing databases that Westminster City Council has put into practice to police the issuing of highly valuable residents' parking permits.These are all technical details, and have been well discussed elsewhere. The important thing, though, is for citizens to get the kind of national identity system that suits their own priorities. And if we wanted to carry it around on a nice biometric card, fine. I'd certainly apply for one myself. But as I said, nearly all my friends think I'm bonkers.
Most people still look askance if you admit to using virtual worlds where you move around with an avatar or 3D version of yourself. It recalls the technophobic reactions in the early days of the internet. But attitudes may now change for two reasons. First, children are piling into their own virtual worlds, so their parents can get a glimpse of what it is all about. And second, a huger user base is being created, one that is accustomed to virtual worlds and is ready to trade up to more sophisticated ones as they grow older.Kzero, a web consultancy, has identified more than 30 virtual worlds targeted at children aged between eight and 13, and five more for under-eights. Some of the kids' sites have more registered (but not necessarily active) members than countries have citizens. These includeHabbo Hotel(more than 100 million registered users),Neopets(45 million) andDisney's Club Penguin(20 million). Up the scale there are spaces such asSecond Lifeandhipihi.comfrom China. Kzero reckons that there are about 100 million active users of virtual world.Second, virtual worlds are changing fast. Those in the pipeline are more simple to operate, more niche and starting to mimic the real world rather than recreating medieval themes or intergalactic escapism. Several, such asamazingworlds.comandTwinity, a German startup, are constructing virtual reproductions of cities including London, New York and Singapore.I have an apartment in Twinity's Berlin and was surprised how easy it was to import media. In one room there are videos from my YouTube collection running on a screen. In another my Flickr.com photo collection is on view. l also linked the screen to guardian.co.uk and was able to read the paper from inside the virtual world.What is the point of all this? It is quite likely that it will be a natural thing for future generations to meet their friends in worlds such as these, where they can watch the same music or videos while chatting to each other. And if that is where youngsters will be hanging out, then brands and media, including newspapers, will have to be there. Other life-mimicking worlds about to be released include shopping malls such asthemall.tv, which aims to emulate an entire shopping mall with scores of high street shops. It claims to have signed up 500 brands.It reflects what Philip Rosedale, founder of the pioneering Second Life, calls the "presence", or magic, of virtual worlds. You could, he says, be browsing with 500 other people for the same product on Amazon, but you would be alone and unable to speak with them. Rosedale says virtual worlds are now branching out into different user models. Although many of the addictive networking features attached to them could, like Facebook and other social networks, migrate to mobile devices, they won't find it easy, he argues, to capture that immersive magic of virtual worlds.Second Life's unusual libertarian model - in which users can build everything from scratch - confirms it as the most creative of the virtual worlds, but also the most difficult. Rosedale admits it could take a "day of total suffering" to get used to it. Others would say weeks. But it offers opportunities for all, including older people, because, thanks to the anonymity of avatars, no one knows how old you are. Different generations can meet in a way they don't in real life.Rosedale dreams of setting up cafes with computers in developing countries, allowing poor people to work in SL earning Linden dollars (SL's currency), exchangeable into real money. Virtual worlds are only just beginning. During a period of financial collapse and worries about global warming, they could prove an ideal safe haven.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Mobile users to hit 4 billionThe International Telecommunications Union is predicting that the world will have 4 billion mobile phone users - 61% of the population - by December.bit.ly/itu4bnWe play WiiResearch company GfK Chart-Track reckons the UK now has 3.6m Nintendo Wii games consoles, ahead of the Xbox 360 (2.3m) and PlayStation 3 (1.4m).bit.ly/ukgconsCharity begins onlineThe Charity Commission, an independent regulator, is putting its registry of almost 200,000 UK charities online.charitycommission.gov.ukEarth v Space, checkGreg Chamitoff, who is on board the International Space Station, is now playing chess against Earth people.bit.ly/nasachessiPod overboard!OverBoard has launched some waterproof Pro-Sports earbuds to go with its waterproof Pro-Sports iPod case.over-board.co.ukReally really remote controlKeene's IR Anywhere modules (&pound;99.99) allow infrared control commands to be sent over the internet from anywhere.bit.ly/kiraAVCHD welcomeThe Motionbox personal video site is now accepting AVCHD high-definition uploads. They are converted to Flash video for online playback.bit.ly/mbavchdSymbian expoThe Symbian Smartphone Show will be held at Earls Court, London, October 21-22. It's 10 years since Symbian was spun off from Psion.smartphoneshow.com
Scientists in Cambridge have launched a &pound;12m three-year project to create the next generation of e-paper, which may herald the arrival of fully interactive, all-colour computerised newspapers and magazines.Liquavista, spun out of the Philips Research Labs in Eindhoven two years ago, has won part of the backing from the government-funded Technology Strategy Board. The project is also backed by Plastic Logic. The US technology company last month unveiled a prototype e-paper that looks much more like a sheet of A4  than the offerings of rivals such as Amazon's Kindle and Sony eReader, which resemble paperback books.But Plastic Logic's device is only black and white, not very flexible and its screen updates quite slowly. Liquavista is working on a full-colour flexible screen that would allow newspapers and other publications to give their audience a much more interactive product that could include video.The technology is based on a process called electrowetting, which uses electricity to manipulate a thin layer of liquid so that it changes colour. It uses far less power than a traditional liquid crystal display (LCD) and, crucially, the individual cells change fast enough to run video.Newspaper editors, grappling with declining circulation and the migration of advertising spending to the internet, have been hoping for years that e-paper will move beyond the drawing board into reality. The dream is for a device allowing readers to upload the newspaper in the morning, then update editorial content and ads as the day goes on, perhaps using a mobile phone or wireless connection.Liquavista's chief scientific officer Rob Hayes and chief technology officer Johan Feenstra have been working on the technology for almost a decade.The company plans to announce its first range of products at an electronics fair in Hong Kong this month.
Once a cult classic on the late, ahead-of-its-time Dreamcast, Samba de Amigo now has a deserved shot at the big time on the Wii. It proves to be ideal for the Wii: utterly infectious and endearingly silly. The original's motion-sensing maracas-controllers have, of course, been replaced by the Wiimote and Nunchuk, and, to the accompaniment of some of the cheesiest music ever heard in a game (think samba versions of tracks like A-Ha's Take On Me and Chumbawumba's Tubthumping) you must point the controllers in the correct direction and shake them when beat-indicating balls hit the appropriate targets. You are often encouraged to pose with the controllers or to wave them about as though you were re-enacting Saturday Night Fever. There's not a vast amount to the single-player game (you merely unlock new difficulty levels and sounds, such as a whistle, for your maracas) and most of the mini-games are pretty lame, but you'd have to be churlish in the extreme not to find the manically energetic gameplay (which quickly raises a sweat) irresistible. This is what the Wii is all about.
Like most tech-watchers, I spent last week poring over the T-Mobile G1 specifications - but I simply wanted to know if Android is any good for games. One thing's for certain, this is going to be a very different proposition from the iPhone. Sure, we're getting the same veteran publishers signing up to support the platform. Gameloft, Glu and Namco are all on board. Glu has a new puzzle title named Bonsai Blast, while Namco is offering a free Pac-Man download. We're also getting a similar proliferation of control systems - G1 matches iPhone's touchscreen options, but adds a full Qwerty keyboard and trackball combo, which means that we might finally get a mobile first-person shooter that's actually playable.The big difference, though, is in the contrasting approaches to making applications available to users. App Store is a heavily regulated zone, with Apple getting approval on everything. However, the Google equivalent - Android Market - is an open content distribution system, with few controls.This could result in the first mobile platform that's both friendly to and practical for the indie gaming fraternity. With Java mobile games, there's no reliable route to market for small studios, because of the stranglehold on distribution enjoyed by the big phone networks. The alternative is online distribution, which means creative freedom - but you're only reaching a teeny group.In contrast, Android Market will be available to all Android owners, and the system's user ratings and reviews will provide a filter for the onslaught of mediocre crap that will inevitably flood the service. Also, the lack of any quality control means that experimental, unfinished projects can go up, attracting both constructive criticism and the possibility of development help from other bedroom coders. Gamers also hope that we'll get to see some tasty emulators of classic consoles.It's a legally shady area, but then, on an unregulated site, this stuff is bound to slip through the net. One of the most appealing aspects of the original N-Gage was its brilliance as a portable emulation platform. Another advantage of Android's open architecture is the easy access it provides to the phone's other functionality - US company W2Pi Entertainment, for example, has developed a title named WiFi Army (wifiarmy.com) which uses GPS and Google maps to create a real-world first-person shooter where competitors use their phones as guns.So is it good for games? Android could be to indie mobile game development what MySpace was to indie music. It could, in a modest way that's quite a distance from Google's key intentions, change everything.
Renew or replace?My four year-old Evesham Axis 64 MKR PC generally works fine. However, I guess that components such as the hard disk and power supply must be reaching the end of their reliable lives. I am keen to avoid a loss of data or of service. What approach to renewal would offer a good balance of the pragmatic and the sustainable?Paul MartinJS:The Axis 64 MKR was a good machine in its day, had a good graphics card, and it seems its 2.2GHz AMD Athlon 64 3500+ processor still does all you need. However, it's worth upgrading from 512MB of memory to at least 1GB, and you should really have done this sooner rather than later. Hard drives fail, but running a drive checker such as HDD Health (panterasoft.com) will monitor its performance and predict how long it will last. (It expects my hard drive to last until 2017.) You should already have all your data backed up to CD or DVD, but you can also buy an external USB hard drive and "ghost" a complete backup of your system using Acronis True Image or similar software. This would soon get you up and running again after a drive failure. The extra RAM should keep your Axis going for another couple of years, and the cost of the external drive would not be wasted because you'll still be able to use it when you buy a new PC. However, if HDD Health detects hard drive problems, it would be worth replacing it with a bigger, faster drive, and it might be worth considering a new PC.More space, pleaseI have a 2003 computer. I now want to increase my hard disk space from its current 80GB (with 80GB external disk backup) to 500GB (similarly backed up) to cope with the large number of RAW photographs I am now producing. I have discovered that this is not as simple as just buying a new hard drive and sticking it in. Would it be best just to buy a new computer?John WardJS:Nowadays, thanks to autoconfiguration routines, adding a second hard drive as a slave is almost as simple as just buying a new hard drive and sticking it in. A quick Google will find lots of guides and even YouTube videos to help. At worst, you might have to find Windows' Disk Management utility - go to the Control Panel's Administrative Tools folder, select Computer Management, then click Disk Management - to set up the drive. It's probably not worth buying a new PC unless you need the extra power to edit copies of large RAW files, which can be a strain on old PCs. It often is worth buying a new PC to get improvements in two or more areas, such as for example if you need more memory, more hard drive space, more memory, a faster processor etc.Fake security attackI am being plagued by a full-page message that pops up when I am browsing. It warns of "Insecure Internet activity. Threat of virus attack" and says "Click here to get full advanced real-time protection and continue browsing". Needless to say, I don't trust this, and have not downloaded anything - at least as far as I know.Glyn CollinsJS:Putting up fake spyware or antivirus alerts, and making them look the same as Microsoft Windows alerts, seems to be the latest fashion. From the full message, the fake antivirus software in this case is KvmSecure, which is a nasty Trojan. You may just have a minor adware problem. However, if you have the Trojan, you may need to use a strong removal tool such as Malwarebytes: Beeping Computer has instructions (bleepingcomputer.com/malware-removal/kvmsecure). Remember to back up essential data first, and change important passwords afterwards.Annoying Security CenterWe don't want Windows Security Center to keep popping up on our screen, but as complete novices have no idea how to stop it. We already use McAfee.Dave DaviesJS:The Windows Security Center in Windows XP SP2 and Vista monitors four areas: Firewall, Automatic Updating, Malware Protection and Other Security Settings. It doesn't usually pop up unless you are operating your PC in an insecure manner, or the alternative software that you have installed is sending it incorrect notifications. However, you can turn off the alerts from the Security Center. Simply click where it says "Change the way Security Center alerts me" in the left-hand pane. If you can't run WSC from the SysTray, go to Control Panel and select Security Center, or go to the Start menu's System Tools folder, or in Vista, start typing Security in the Start menu search box. Bear in mind that if you disable Windows Security Center, you will be making your PC less secure.A strange iconAn icon looking like a notebook has appeared from nowhere on my desktop. It has GEAREXT underneath. Should I be worried?Glenda WellumJS:You can right-click on the icon and select Properties: that should tell you something about it. You can also right-click, select "Open with" and open it in Notepad. (This will work whether it's a text file or not.) If you find it contains a list of CDs that you have burned, then it's a log file from one of Gear Software's DVD and CD burning programs (gearsoftware.com).Backchat• Nick Fisher wanted a printer for Linux. Alcib suggests checking atlinuxprinting.org/printer_list.cgi?make=Anyone.• Keith Knowles had problems filing things in Microsoft Outlook. Andy Slade says my answer seems over-complicated, adding: "Outlook will allow Keith to do what he wants by a simple configuration: for each of his required group of emails he can create a PST folder with a location at a convenient place on his hard drive. Then, using the Rules Wizard, make sure that the appropriate emails are directed to these folders. In this way he has an organised arrangement for his emails that are automatically saved in as many files as he wishes on his hard drive. These can be restored when he wishes and can be turned 'off' when he no longer requires them."• Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.ukblogs.guardian.co.uk/askjack
When Russia was accused of a cyber attack on Estonia last year, the White House took notice. George W Bush voiced a concern that the US was vulnerable to similar warfare. And when some in the military raised suspicion that Chinese cyberspies had already penetrated unclassified Pentagon computers, the decision was made to start a command to fight for America's supremacy online.The $2bn (&pound;1.1bn) project, which was started under the wing of the air force, was due to become fully operational later this year. Ominous adverts about hack attacks on the Pentagon were commissioned to recruit more people. And then, last month, it was suspended. No reason was given.No-brainer"The notion that modern countries should consider cyberspace a theatre of war is a no-brainer," says Bruce Schneier, chief security technology officer at BT and a Guardian columnist on web security. "It seems like they've had a lot of political manoeuvring over who should run it. The question is not whether there should be one, but where."That's not the only question that Air Force Cyber Command had to answer. People weren't quite sure whether it was there to protect air force assets or all cyberspace. Some thought it would only be responsible for computer networks, while others were convinced that anything that used the electromagnetic spectrum would fall under its purview - including laser weapons. And no-one knows why it was put in charge of both cyberspace and space operations.Cyber Command was started in response to millions of attack probes or scans from malicious computers on the Department of Defense's Global Information Grid (or GIG), which encompasses the military's networks, systems and computers."The nature of the threat is large and diverse," says Timothy Madden of Cyber Command. "It includes recreational hackers, self-styled cyber-vigilantes, various groups with nationalistic or ideological agendas, transnational actors and nation-states." The Pentagon felt a new section was needed because "much of the DoD's networks, systems, and computers is dependent upon commercial telecommunications links and the internet".Schneier sums up its role more clearly, saying that Cyber Command is there to take "any military actions in cyberspace. Blowing things up, making them not work, just like in the real world. It's also offensive and defensive, just like in the real world."Sami Saydjari, CEO and founder of online security company Cyber Defense Agency, was one of 54 leading computing figures who wrote an open letter to President Bush in 2002 urging him to secure the internet. "Potential costs of a multi-critical infrastructure attack on the banking system, the power grid and so on in a sequence designed to do maximum damage approaches the trillions, and the damage would look like a thousand hurricane Katrinas."It's not something a 14-year-old could do in his bedroom, however. "You'd need half a billion dollars and three years," says Saydjari. "But that amount of money and time is not an absolute barrier to entry - nation states or transnational terrorism groups like al-Qaida or even someone like the Russian Mafia, which is not terrorism but organised crime, could certainly raise that kind of money."Cyber Command was a step in the right direction, he says: "They wanted to treat cyber[space] as an area for war like a physical space, which is exactly the way to look at it."Rhetorical warriorsSo is the suspension of Cyber Command going to make America more vulnerable? "It's hard to answer," he says. "I think having someone in charge and capable of handling the mission is needed urgently."Many blame political chicanery in the air force. After scandals about botched handling of nuclear weapons, major contracts going wrong and the firing of the top military and civilian leaders, the service needs time to regroup before deciding on how to fight in the cyber arena. But when and if it does come back online, there are still questions to be answered.Cyber Command has the right to monitor anything that comes across its own networks, for defence purposes, and there's no evidence it's going beyond that. Madden does say, however, that "cases are turned over to law enforcement or counter-intelligence agencies for further investigation".Scheier is worried about how rigorously the US government will maintain the line between military surveillance and civilian prosecutions. "You don't want the military working with the FBI. That's how you get police states," he says. "The army can't take charge of police work because there are laws against that, and the air force shouldn't be able to check up on civilian cybercrime. The needs of warfare are not the same as the needs of peacetime - we don't need howitzers and bombers in peacetime, and we don't need Cyber Command monitoring us either." Doesn't the war on terror justify it? "They're lying if they say that," he says. "They can pretend it's the same as war, but it's not. The war on terror is just a rhetorical war."
It's not true that no one worries about terrorists attacking chemical plants. It's just that our politics seem to leave us unable to deal with the threat. Toxins such as ammonia, chlorine, propane and flammable mixtures are being produced or stored as a result of legitimate industrial processes. Chlorine gas is particularly toxic; in addition to bombing a plant, someone could hijack a chlorine truck or blow up a railcar. Phosgene is even more dangerous. And many chemical plants are located in places where an act of sabotage - or an accident - could threaten thousands of people.The problem of securing chemical plants is simple once you understand the underlying economics. Normally, we leave the security of something up to its owner. The basic idea is that the owner of each chemical plant 1) best understands the risks, and 2) is the one who loses out if security fails. Any outsider - ie, regulatory agency - is just going to get it wrong. It's the basic free-market argument, and in most instances it makes a lot of sense.And chemical plants have security. They have cameras, fences, guards. They have built-in fail-safe mechanisms. For example, many large chemical companies use hazardous substances like phosgene, methyl isocyanate and ethylene oxide in their plants, but don't ship them between locations. They minimise the amounts that are stored.This is all good and right, and what free-market capitalism dictates. The problem is, that isn't enough. Any rational owner of a chemical plant will only secure the plant up to its value to him or her. That is, if the plant is worth $100m (&pound;55m), then it makes no sense to spend $200m on securing it. If the odds of it being attacked are less than 1%, it doesn't even make sense to spend $1m on securing it. The maths is more complicated than this, because you have to factor in such things as the reputational cost of having your name splashed all over the media after an incident, but that's the basic idea.But to society, the cost of an attack can be much, much greater. If a terrorist blows up a particularly toxic plant in the middle of a densely populated area, deaths could be in the tens of thousands and damage could be in the hundreds of millions. Indirect economic damage could be in the billions. The owner of the chlorine plant would pay none of these potential costs.Sure, the owner could be sued. But they're not at risk for more than the value of the company - and, in any case, they'd probably be smarter to take the chance. Expensive lawyers can work wonders, courts can be fickle and the government could step in and bail the company out. And a smart company can often protect itself by spinning off the risky asset in a subsidiary company, or selling it off completely. The overall result is that chemical plants are secured to a much smaller degree than the risk warrants.If we - the community living near the chemical plant, or the nation as a whole - expect the owner of that plant to spend money for increased security to account for those externalities, we're going to have to pay for it.We have three ways of doing that. One, we can do it ourselves, stationing government police or military or contractors around the chemical plants. Two, we can pay the owners to do it, subsidising some sort of security standard. Or three, we could regulate security and force the companies to pay for it themselves.There's no free lunch, of course. "We", as in society, still pay for it in increased prices for whatever the chemical plants are producing, but the cost is paid for by the consumers rather than by taxpayers. Asking nicely just isn't going to work.We taxpayers, not the airlines, pay for airport security because the overall effects of a terrorist attack against an airline are far greater than their effects to the airline targeted. We pay for port security because the effects of bringing a large weapon into the country are far greater than the concerns of the port's owners. And we should pay for chemical plant, train and truck security for the same reasons.&#183;Bruce Schneier is the chief security technology officer of BTschneier.com/blog
You can help decide which project gets on to the final shortlist for a &pound;20,000 prize offered by the government to make the best use of its public datasets under its Show Us A Better Way competition.The Cabinet Office has asked the Free Our Data campaign to help with the choice of potential finalists by using "crowdsourcing" in which people can vote for the ideas that they think deserve to win. And so we have set up a page - atbit.ly/suabw- where we have uploaded as many of the ideas as possible, and invite your votes. (If an idea you like is missing, please add it.) Each user can vote up to 10 times.Entries for the competition closed on midnight on Tuesday, after four months which have drawn hundreds of entries. The competition, set up by Cabinet Office minister Tom Watson and the Power of Information taskforce led by Richard Allan, aims to find ideas that will exploit public datasets in innovative and beneficial ways.The rules of the competition are deliberately vague. "The kind of thing we are looking for is ideas that help make the leap from static information to action," the site (atshowusabetterway.com) explains. "We will take the best ideas ... [Both] highly technical and highly un-technical entries are welcome - the strongest ideas will win." And after that, "we are offering up to &pound;20,000 to take your ideas forward with a development team".The competition is the latest in a series of steps that the government has taken towards acknowleding the power of making its datasets available for free reuse. An independent study released with the Budget in March showed that making available government-generated data that is at present charged for would bring an overall benefit to the economy - precisely as the campaign has argued it would since its inception in March 2006.A remarkable number of the entries in the Show Us A Better Way competition would require mapping data - which is at present guarded jealously by Ordnance Survey - and also postcode-to-location translation. One of the triumphs of the competition, though, was that it managed to persuade the Post Office to make available its entire Postcode Address File for free to entrants - even if it was only for the purposes of building competition prototypes.&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog
