Pok&eacute;ROMsBusiness card-sized mini CDs are being put to practical use in a series of 10 Pok&eacute;ROMs, launched by Mattel Interactive's TLC (The Learning Company) for Windows PCs and Apple Macintoshes. The idea is to   divert kids into doing something of educational value by making them solve maths puzzles to free their chosen character. The mini CDs also have a database of more than 200 questions on English, maths, and science for children aged five and above. The main appeal to parents is that they cost only &#163;4.99 each.Arresting ideaThe Driver-2 website will soon let you send someone an arrest warrant. You can already use it to send 120-character SMS messages to mobile phones, and add a Driver-2 logo to a Nokia phone. Seewww.driver-2.com/uk/flash/ukindex.htmlMical returnsIndustry veteran RJ Mical has resurfaced atRed Jade, a Silicon Valley start-up that is building a wireless entertainment    device with funding from Ericsson, Sweden's mobile phone manufacturer. Mical is best known for developing the Intuition interface for the Commodore Amiga home computer. After that he   co-created the Handy portable games console (sold as the Atari Lynx) and the CD-based 3DO REAL games console. All three were years ahead of their time. However, the last two flopped, and the Amiga is as good as dead.FreeloadingThe Freeloader website is launching a string of old games in the run-up to Christmas. The latest title offered for free download is GTA London 1969. Due soon are Supercross Kings, Magic &amp; Mayhem, a role-playing game, Virgin Interactive's Viva Football and Empire's Pro Pinball.    Meanwhile, episode three of Freeloader's original episodic game, Halcyon Sun, is available with a free speech-pack. Seewww.freeloader.comHeavy metalRobot Wars, BBC 2's most popular programme, is about to give birth to a Game Boy Color cartridge. Robot Wars: Metal Mayhem lets you design your own robot and battle rivals or work through the whole competition. BBC Multimedia will be selling the &#163;24.99 cartridge online atwww.bbcmultimedia.comor on 01795-414 715 from December 8.
Operating out of an office in a business park in Tottenham Hale, iLearn.To is a rarity in the dotcom backlash - it is making money, while other startups are going bust. In September and October, the two-year-old online learning company made &#163;250,000.www.Ilearn.Tois also different in that it was created by a Vietnamese refugee, Sieng Van Tran, 25, who came to Britain at the age of six, one of the hundreds of thousands who fled Vietnam by boat. Speaking no English, when he arrived, he resorted to the computer at home to catch up with his schoolmates.A university degree in artificial intelligence and a six-month stint in the US, where he saw the potential of the internet laid the groundwork for his startup. ILearn.To has made a promising start, but the online learning sector is getting tougher all the time.Last month, CityJobs, one of Europe's top online recruitment firms teamed up with BlueU, an e-learning company, to provide more than 500 specialist courses in finance and IT. In early November, Bookacourse.com launched its revamped website providing access to what it claimed was the largest e-marketplace for IT training in the UK.In August, Forrester Research, the internet research group, revealed that of 40 leading corporations, all but one had online training initiatives in place."Firms turn to online training as a way to enable the lifelong learning habits required by the new economy. As they do, vendors ranging from traditional training consultancies to presentation-tools providers rush to tap this opportunity," Forrester said.Firms like online learning because it is convenient and cheap. Employees can log on to courses from their desktops. Forrester identified more than 100 online learning players and expects the field to get even more crowded.In the US, some big names already have put down claims in this market. So far the biggest is Michael Milken, the former junk bond maestro. He has partnered Oracle's Larry Ellison in Knowledge Universe, a conglomerate for educational and training ventures, online or otherwise. Elsewhere, the Washington Post company is investing heavily in Webucation.Forrester predicts that   gaming programmers will eventually jump on the online learning bandwagon. Games companies have the expertise that education software developers lack to develop lively and interactive training programs for e-learning in a merging of education and entertainment on the net.Soon it will no longer be enough for companies to tout massive catalogues of courses as offered by Click2learn, SkillSoft and iLearn.To. Firms such as MindLever.com are in a position to steal customers by offering firms the tools and services to create, track and manage their own specialised content.Tran has shown impressive resourcefulness and nous so far. The firm survived a rocky patch when promised technical and financial support from Outsource, a group set up by Alan Watkins, formerly of Cisco Systems, failed to materialise. ILearn.To severed the relationship, trimmed staff, cut expenses and paid no money to staff for four months. It has since gone back to 10 people, although the office in Tottenham Hale has all the classic signs of startups, down to the mattresses stuffed in the cupboards for overnight stays.The iLearn.To logo appears on 20 co-branded sites including Bank of Scotland, BT and Reuters. Alliances with such big established companies are quite a coup for such a small company, and free publicity through programmes on the BBC has helped spread iLearn's reputation as an energetic and innovative firm. Its first partner was BT, which heard of the company through the grapevine and Intel, the microchip giant, has supplied much technical helpOne of iLearn.To's most valuable alliances is with McGraw-Hill, the American publisher. Subscribers have access to scores of McGraw-Hill courses, which would normally cost at least &#163;1,000 through the publisher itself. It seems odd that McGraw-Hill would want to make its products available to an upstart like iLearn.To at about a tenth of the cost.Tran believes McGraw-Hill needed a channel for its con tent as it would cost too much for the company to rebrand itself as an online learning company. But he finds it strange that McGraw-Hill would risk cannibalising its content. "I am slightly worried. The barriers to entry are very low and a company like Pearsons can jump in at any time."Crucial to iLearn.To's survival has been its partnership with the Department for Education and Employment. Anyone with an individual learning account can put the &#163;150 towards the &#163;175 subscription fee. In effect, for only &#163;25, that subscriber has access to all of iLearn.To's courses for a year. Ilearn.To targets individuals and small to medium enterprises and Tran hopes to make the courses entirely free to learners by persuading sympathetic employers and other organisations to foot the initial expense.Tran is also banking on iLearn.To's ability to move quickly. It can offer subscribers a massive catalogue of vocational courses, mostly in IT, some 665 courses in all.Tran wants to ally with "knowledge champions", or individuals who create their own courses in exchange for half of the course proceeds such as royalties and sponsorship deals. "We want to turn your intellectual capital into an e-commerce proposition," he says.The company's software continuously searches for information relevant to subscribers' interests and delivers it to their desktops.Tran compares iLearn.To to the Greek method, when Socrates and Plato wandered like Gypsies, educating as they went. In this model, the learning comes to you via the desktop rather than you going to a classroom.He believes that online learning can have a huge impact on countries such as China, which is seeking to catch up in the global economy, but which lacks the resources to build brick and mortar universities.There is a reason, why companies are flocking to online learning. People are willing to pay, especially for the business education market. Ilearn.To is already making waves, with some of its competitors accusing it of killing the market because of low rates.It sounds rather implausible, but this fledgling company run by a 25-year-old Vietnamese refugee, plans to be one of key players in online learning in Britain.
PC buyers have never had it so good. It is hard to find a home PC that will not do a decent job of running Microsoft Office and browsing the web, no matter how little you pay. However, buying purely on price can be a recipe for disaster. In the long run, it is better to go for a machine that has been well put together out of quality components, with a specification high enough to last a few years.There is a myth that all PCs are the same. They are not. What is true is that it can be hard to tell a good PC from a bad one unless you test-drive it for a few weeks. Since you cannot do that, concentrate on getting good components in a machine from a name-brand supplier such as Dan, Dell, Gateway, Hewlett-Packard, or IBM. (This is not a complete list.)In the UK, Compaq and Dell are by far the market leaders, according to Gartner Dataquest figures for this year's third quarter. Both companies shipped more than 260,000 PCs, and each took 17% of the market.Hewlett-Packard was in third place with 7%, selling 112,000 of the more than 1.5 million personal computers sold here.ProcessorThe processor is the "engine" that runs the PC, so you might think it the most important element in buying one. It isn't. Basically, anything with a speed of 500MHz or (preferably) more will do. Intel Celeron chips are a good choice for budget buyers, but the Pentium III is the best mainstream choice.Even then, it is not worth paying much of a premium for anything faster than about 733MHz unless you need a high-end machine to run   games. If that is the case, you might consider an AMD Athlon processor or even the new Intel Pentium 4.MemoryIf your budget means choosing between a faster processor and more memory, go for more memory. For running programs, today's minimum is 64 megabytes, but 128MB is better, and 256MB is common for high-end users. Make sure the PC has an empty slot to which you can add an extra memory module later.But "main memory" is not the whole story. It also helps to have lots of "cache Ram" and "video Ram" (VRam).Level 2 (L2) cache memory is where the PC stores instructions before they are fed to the processor, and it has a critical effect on performance. Video Ram (VRam) is where the screen image is stored, and more graphics memory means you can have more pixels on the screen (higher resolution) in more colours. Graphics cards with 8MB or 16MB are available in low-end PCs, but 32MB is now common, and a few high-end users have 64MB.Some PCs use part of main memory as graphics memory. This is cheaper but limits performance. It is a very bad idea in a PC that may be used for games.Graphics and soundNowadays, even business PCs have graphics and sound facilities. In low-end machines, these will be integrated on to the main system board.You get more power for more money by having separate sound and graphics cards that fit into slots on the motherboard. Sound cards usually fit into a PCI (peripheral   component interconnect) slot and graphics cards into a 2x or 4x AGP (accelerated graphics port), so don't buy a PC without an AGP slot.Graphics cards usually have chips to speed up Windows graphics, particularly 3D images. These provide a faster and more responsive system, which is particularly important for games players.Extra sound and graphics facilities are of limited use unless software houses support them. Home users should therefore lean towards one of the Creative Labs SoundBlaster series and, for gamers, either an nVidia GeForce 2 or 3Dfx Voodoo graphics card, though there are many options. If you are going to splash out on better sound, it makes sense to go for a decent pair of speakers and a subwoofer as well.Disk drivesA PC should have at least three drives - five or six are not unusual. The basics are a 3.5in floppy, a hard drive, and a CD-rom. The floppy is useful for file transfer and backing up small files, and adds little to the cost of a PC.The hard drive is used for storing the operating system and other programs, so the bigger the better. Today, 10 gigabytes is average, and 15GB or 30GB is common. High-end machines pack up to 60GB. Cheap systems may only have 6GB or 7.5GB drives, but these are fine for most people. However, if you want to run lots of 3D games, edit videos or collect MP3 files, go for the biggest hard drive you can afford.The third essential is a CD-rom drive, which is needed for loading software and running encyclopedias such as Microsoft Encarta. Most people will want to upgrade this either to a DVD, which can play   movies, or a CD-RW read/write drive, which can take back-ups or, for example, create picture or audio CDs.It is now possible to get "combo" drives, such as Toshiba's CD-R1002 and Samsung's SM-304B, which read DVDs and also write CDs. However, these are not that much cheaper than two separate drives, and you lose any ability to make disc-to-disc copies. CD-rom drives tend to be sold on speed, but there does not seem to be any practical advantage to having drives that are faster than x16 or even x12.Some people may also want a fifth drive, usually a high-  capacity floppy such as a 250MB Iomega Zip drive.ExpansionOne reason for buying a PC is that it can easily be customised and expanded: you can add TV and radio tuners, video capture cards, network cards, tape drives, modems, printers, scanners, cameras, music keyboards and other things.But expansion depends on having empty slots and drive bays inside the case and external communications ports for connecting peripherals.I would not feel comfortable buying a PC that did not have at least two free PCI slots and two empty 5.25in drive bays.Traditionally, PCs have been provided with a number of dedicated ports (sockets) for the keyboard, mouse, modem (a serial port) and printer, but USB (Universal Serial Bus) ports are slowly replacing them.I think it is best to go for a   "legacy free" PC with as many USB ports as possible. Unfortunately many PCs have only two, which can be expanded by adding hubs. Five is better.CasesBuy the biggest case you can bear. Small cases look less threatening and are easier to hide, but tower cases have many advantages. First, they provide room for expansion, and it is far easier to handle fiddly components and the spaghetti of internal wiring in a big case than a small one.Second, big cases tend to run cooler than small ones, and heat is the enemy of stability and reliability.PC manufacturers are keen to sell PCs in colourful, curvy cases, but try to avoid becoming a fashion victim. Make sure the case will accept cheap off-the-shelf components such as standard CD and DVD drives, and full-height expansion cards.Keyboard and screenCheap PCs usually come with poor keyboards and fuzzy screens, and mid-range PCs are not always much better. This is a pity because the keyboard and screen are how you interact with the system.However, most name-brand suppliers offer better screens for some extra cost. Aim for a refresh rate of 75MHz or more at the screen resolution you plan to use: probably 800 x 600 on a 15in screen, or 1,024 x 768 on a 17in model. A low refresh rate creates a disturbing flicker.There are lots of good monitors available from firms such as Iiyama, NEC, Mitsubishi and Philips.It is an advantage to have a big screen, because you can see more applications at the same time. Some PCs still come with 15in screens because they are cheap, but it   is always worth upgrading to 17in. However, 21in screens tend to be too large and too expensive for home use, and 19in screens may not be a cost-effective compromise.Many companies also offer flat LCD screens, which take up less room and generate less heat, but they are still much too expensive for the mass market.Which Windows?Most PCs come preloaded with Microsoft Windows, but there is a choice of versions. Windows Me (Millennium edition) is the latest, and has   been designed for home users. However, it is slower than Windows 98SE (Second edition). Whichever you choose, make sure you also get a Windows CD-rom.Windows 2000 - a version of Windows NT (New Technology) - is more advanced and works with multiple processors. It is the best choice for business, but a bit too unforgiving for home users.If possible, buy a Windows 98SE/Me PC that is also offered with Windows 2000 and preferably Unix (eg Linux). Manufacturers can get away with supplying flaky hardware for Windows 98SE/Me, and blaming Microsoft when it crashes. Windows 2000 and Linux generally don't crash, and this exposes hardware flaws.BundlesManufacturers are keen to keep their average selling price as high as possible, and often throw in "free" software and   peripherals rather than reduce it. But if these are not items you would buy separately, then you may not get much benefit from them. Free software has no value if you don't use it.Still, some worthwhile programs may be available free or for a small extra fee. Look for the Microsoft Works suite, Encarta or a similar encyclopedia, and games.Where to buy?For most people, the choice is between retail and mail order, which includes telephone sales. Usually mail order offers a better deal, because the direct supplier does not have to buy parts and build PCs weeks or months before it gets your money (this is significant when the cost of computer parts falls every month), and because it cuts out the retailers' profit margin.However, retailers can offer competitive deals by buying large volumes and slashing margins - Tesco has done this in previous years - and by cutting prices to clear aging stock.Many firms offer extra information, special deals and clearance bargains on their websites, so check the main suppliers and firms such aswww.action.comandJungle.com.The drawbacks with mail order/telephone sales are that you cannot see the machine before you buy it, and if it goes wrong, it may be awkward to return it. But you can cover yourself by keeping a record of who you talk to, and what you agree, and by paying by credit card.You could also consider buying from a mail order supplier with shops or a showroom within driving distance.If you want something in time for Christmas, you need to act as soon as possible. If not, well, prices will be even lower in February.
We all know the web can be a watcher's paradise. Type "voyeur" into any search engine and you get up to 800,000 sites. But you'd better pay more than usual attention to how blue your links are.What's less well known is that there are plenty of more intriguing ways to peer into the internet. If the web is a nation of voyeurs, who's watching the watchmen? Well, you can. Many search engines now offer "Search Voyeurs", services which display a random sample of searches taking place at that moment.Magellanhttp://voyeur.mckinley.com/cgi-bin/voyeur.cgiis typical, giving you a random selection of 10 searches updated every few seconds. As with all the Search Voyeurs, if any of the searches catch your eye, you can click on them to see the results for yourself. Most automatically filter out the more offensive search items (MetaCrawler's Search Voyeur atwww.metaspy.comoffers you a choice: 'MetaSpy' or 'MetaSpy Exposed'). But sometimes what is not said makes you nervous. Atwww.askjeeves.com/docs/peekyou can Ask Jeeves to "peek through the keyhole": most people's questions are worryingly trivial or bizarre. In my case, what the butler saw included: "Where   do pencils come from?" and "Where can I find resources from Britannica.com on dynamite?"It's not all depressing though: another 20 seconds produced "Where can I find resources on otolaryngology?" and "Where can I learn about Pythagoras of Samos?" Voyeurism isn't always about identification with the observed. Robert Burns wrote: "O wad some Pow'r the giftie gie us / To see oursels as others see us!" We still can't do that; but we can see others and be glad we're not them.One curious voyeur ran a capture program on the MetaSpy Search Voyeur and placed the results on the web (seewww.firstpr.com.au/curiosity): even a quick look here will have you glad you're not the person who searched for "Hello Metaspy, I know you want to see me!" Apart from curiosity, watching people can also be an excellent way to learn something new.www.cyveillance.comthat specialises in watching users online has estimated the number of web    pages at 3 billion, with 7 million new pages every day. Research by anothercorporate voyeursuggests the average home surfer will use about six of those pages daily.So how do you find out what else is out there? Watch someone else using topic-specific search voyeurs -http://stockcharts.com/SharpCharts/voyeur.htmlfor stock-market charts,http://food.epicurious.com/food_kwd/content.htmfor new recipes ("Pizza + marinade" anyone?) - but for a truly expansive experience, you need a Webring.Webrings, strings of sites with connected themes which link themselves into a chain, often give the opportunity to jump to a random site on the ring.www.webring.org/cgi-binwebring?ring=milprod;random will give you a random site on the Military Products Webring. (I got Firebase Higgy's Supply Sergeant, for "Custom-made Veterans &#91;sic&#93; patches and other memorabilia"; and "Scars of Honour", "a novel of the Russian Front by retired professional soldier Faron Norris.)The Diary Webringbrought me Moonlight Memoirs ("My name is Electra, and I'm a Femme Fatale") and the Jon Jon Diaries (although, sadly, "Jon Jon has to go away for a while"). The Yahoo Webring Directory ( dir.webring.yahoo.com/rw ) has all kinds: Quotations; Wiccans; Golden Retrievers (the Circle of Gold). A hundred lifetimes could be lost in here.If you're a fan of Luke Rhinehart's The Dice Man, and all this seems too predetermined, there are sites that give you a far more random experience. Atwww.maths.tcd.ie/cgi-bin/randurlyou can see pages taken at random from the http cache of the University of Dublin Trinity College School of Mathematics. For students, they seem to be a suspiciously clean-living lot - the results are mainly academic sites, and fascinatingly dull, although you do get the odd surprise: on click 27, I reachedwww.sunbelt.net- a site I can honestly say I would otherwise never have seen. Try it for yourself.AtYahoo Random!you will find a unique destination taken from Yahoo's database of millions of websites across the world - instant sightseeing, and you don't need to pay for a ticket. With one estimate (seewww.glreach.com/globstats) running at 369.4 million web users whose searches you can spy on, and 3-billion-plus web pages to randomly visit, there's now no excuse for learning just one new thing every day. As Mae West would have said: log on and see me sometime. (Although she might have wanted your credit card number first.)
Dawn of a new EpocNokia has unveiled the third incarnation of its Communicator smart phone. The 9210, which will go on sale in spring priced at around &#163;400, keeps its predecessors' keyboard, but adds a colour screen, high-speed data access and Symbian's EPOC32 operating system.In a surprise move, the Communicator not only supports GSM networks but is also compatible with the faster high speed circuit switch data (HSCSD) network, which offers internet connection speeds of up to   43kbps. In the UK the only network expected to offer HSCSD services is Orange.As with previous Communicators, the 9210 offers phone, fax, email, internet and Wap facilities. It sports personal organiser features including a calendar, voice recorder, contact management system and playback of Wav files and video clips. It can also be used to create Microsoft Word and Excel documents and view PowerPoint slides.The Communicator is the first Nokia product to feature the Epoc operating platform developed by the Symbian group. Symbian, a joint venture between Ericsson, Motorola, Matsushita, Psion and Nokia, hopes its software will become the industry standard for mobile devices like smart phones. Other Nokia products that use Epoc operating system will follow in 2001.Also debuting on the 9210 is an innovative data synchronisation facility called Sync ML. This enables the user to import contacts directory and   calendar data from other platforms and devices including Palm, Psion and Starfish software.The 9210 comes with a 16MB memory card, has a talk time of up to 10 hours and an operating time of 230 hours.At its mobile internet press conference in Prague last week, Nokia also stressed its commitment to GPRS packet radio system but added that GPRS phones were unlikely to arrive until well into next year.Nokia also confirmed that a personal organiser/ phone device which uses the Palm handheld PC interface,   though not the operating system, will be available in 2001.Rolling outIn the stores this week is Motorola's latest take on its Timeport series of mobile phones. The Ti-250 updates the original design by offering a choice of finishes (silver, graphite and marine), a new user interface and an apparently easy to use rolling menu switch. Like other phones in the Timeport series, the Ti-250 is a triple band model (GSM 900/1800/1900 MHz) that will work in most European countries and the United States. It also boasts Wap browsing facilities, an integrated modem, ITAP predictive text and selection of three games including; Baccarat, Brick and Tower of Hanoi. Standby time is rated at 140 hours, while talk time is around 180 minutes. It is available now for around &#163;100 on all networks. Also in the stores now, priced at around &#163;150 and available on all networks, is the Motorola V100 Personal Communicator. Targeted at SMS-mad teenagers and 20-somethings, the model is a small clamshell type dual band phone that sports a miniature QWERTY keyboard and a large-ish screen. It features a Wap browser, will send e-mails and has voice recognition software and vibra call options. In between SMSes, users can    also play one of a trio of games  Motorola has also confirmed that its first GPRS phone, the Timeport Ti-260, has been pencilled in for a spring 2001 launchExtended playJVC has unveiled what it hopes is MiniDisc's secret weapon in the battle for the personal stereo market. It is introducing MDLP (MiniDisc Long Play), a new technology that enables users to record four times the usual amount on a standard MD.Due to debut on the XM-R700 personal recorder and MX-S6MDR lifestyle hi-fi system, the MDLP facility uses data compression technology to store up to 320 minutes of music on a standard 80 minute MiniDisc. JVC claims that there is no noticeable reduction in sound reproduction from conventional MD recording.Due in the stores later this year, the XR-M70 is the company's top of the range personal MD recorder. Features include a selection of editing functions, DACB (Digital Active Clear Bass) technology, and a 40-second anti-shock memory.The MX-S6MDR component system features a triple tray CD player and an RDS tuner in addition to its MD recorder.JVC has also confirmed that it is bringing its hybrid hard disk/S-VHS video recorder to the UK next year. Already on sale in Japan the HM-HDS1 allows users to make temporary recordings on a 20 gigabyte hard drive which can then be transferred to S-VHS, or VHS tapes, for archiving via an integrated S-VHS deck. Like the new TiVo system, the model allows users to pause and rewind live TV. It is expected to retail for around &#163;1,000.
Coded blastThe rubbishing of "html editors" by programmers is symptomatic of the general lack of professionalism that pervades the whole UK IT industry.Elegance of code has its place, but when the high level task is to communicate with users, coding becomes a low level task, secondary to communications effect, usability and functionality.It is maybe because programmer-type IT staff seem to have an average age of 25 and a mental age of about five that they are unable to collaborate effectively with specialists from the same or other fields such as multimedia developers, interface designers or graphic artists.UK IT specialists are also incapable of effectively running a business, know nothing about recruitment and are unwilling to make work commitments to essential staff. They know nothing about marketing, rarely conduct market or user research and the profiles of their intended clients exist only as an empty space on a blank screen.Addressing the scale of gross ignorance and incompetence in the UK IT industry is a staggeringly huge task, not only because the problem is all pervasive but the financial incentive in all cases is to stay silent.(name withheld)webmaster@nightnews.comTry to complyEd Piper (Online, November 23) missed the point with Netscape 6. I've now been using N6 for a few weeks and generally find it easy to use and its design looks good. I am also a web designer and have experienced the problems of N6 and CSS/DHTML first hand. But the problem is not with N6. The aim of Netscape was to produce a W3C standards compliant browser and they have. Now it is up to web designers to build standards-compliant web sites.Paul Rollinpjrollin@excite.co.ukFew fraudsI strongly disagree with Tony Slinn's claims (Online, November 23) that the vast majority of firms getting involved in e-commerce haven't got a clue about security. Contrary to the media hype, fraud is actually perceived to be a substantial problem at only 3% of all websites. On average, losses due to fraud are minimal at just over 1%.Shopping on the internet is not as risky as some people want us to believe and online fraud rates are often less than offline fraud rates.Ian PriceHead of e-security, UnisysTesco offlineIt sounds as if Richard Williams may be doing his Tesco online shopping "online" (Online, November 23).I do a fairly sizeable Tesco online shop once every couple of weeks and I am very happy with the service, but I use Tesco's client software installed on my PC. This makes the whole process analogous to composing emails offline with Outlook.Not counting the store update time, when I can do something productive, it all takes about 20 minutes.I assume you can still get the CD with the client software from Tesco, although if you are shopping from work I guess the option of installing this on your company's PC might be closed to you.Graham Jumpgraham.jump@consolve-consulting.comR Williams (Online, November 23), a soi-disant "computer literate", makes our flesh shudder with a description of his problems in attempting to sign up with Tesco Direct. My wife and I, both in our seventies and far from computer literate, managed to sign up in the course of one afternoon.We had one slight problem (quickly solved by a call to their help-line) - the box for "card identity number if known" required a zero entry "if not known". We found the service quick, efficient and helpful. Obviously there are rogue/ incompetent e-retailers. Tesco is not one, as far as we found.Joe Fisherjalexfisher@thefreeinternet.co.ukMuch betterWe have come across a simply marvellous device for electronic ordering from a supermarket (Online, November 23). By direct comparison, we have found it much better than conventional net shopping.You can get connected straightaway by using just a few keystrokes. It's real-time-interactive as you go through your last order, suggesting substitutes where items are out-of-stock or alternative sizes etc.AND it's totally voice-activated, making it convenient for the ordinary person to use and far easier for the disabled. Soon, as shopping becomes really modernised, we expect, everyone will be using one. It's called the "telephone".Peter Rowlandpeterrowland@compuserve.comUnfair gameYour comparison of the powers of Dreamcast, PlayStation 2 and Xbox is hardly fair. Three million vs 75 million vs 150 million polygons a second hardly does the Dreamcast justice, as its figure is for fully rendered polygons whereas PS2 and Xbox figures are plain untextured polygons.The figures drop to about 8 million and 20 million respectively, slightly fairer I think you will find.A. Gallaghergallacher1@ntlworld.comThanks, JackI'd like to record my gratitude to Jack Schofield for the article on organising your hard drive (Online, November 23).Just when I was really fed up with Apple after waiting weeks for a new power supply for my iMac, he was there when I needed him to remind me why I've got a Mac.Is it really true that you can't just drag and drop files around anywhere you want, into hierarchies of folders you can set up and name any way you like on a Windows machine?And what on earth is D:\data?Thanks again, Jack.Alun Griffithsalun@griffiths.sol.co.ukThanks, BTWould anyone else who has tried to get an ADSL connection like to join me in thanking Peter Bonfield for reintroducing me to Kafka?I thought a little visit to his office with a couple of tankers of bullshit would be about right.Rob Welchrob@blackdoggroup.co.uk
This Christmas, the virtual tills of Europe's online stores are expected to be ringing louder and faster than ever before. In a year when e-tailers have seen their businesses continue to grow rapidly, this holiday season will still make up 30% of the year's online sales, according to figures released this week by Forrester Research. In the UK, that adds up to &#163;400m in the holiday season alone.Yet already this year's online Christmas is much more muted than last year's hugely hyped event. The cash might be rolling in, but many e-tailers are concentrating on actually delivering the goods rather than blowing millions on advertising campaigns, after a difficult year in which the bubble of investor and consumer confidence in dot.coms has been punctured.From the dot.com disasters of Boo.com and ClickMango through the abrupt calling-off of the stock markets' love affair with all things internet, consumers sense the e-tail industry is in trouble. Combine that with Christmas presents ordered last year arriving in January of this year, scare stories about credit card scams and online fraudsters, and it is easy to see why e-tailers have a job on their hands to persuade consumers that using their sites is safe."This Christmas will be a test of customer service and site performance," says Abigail Leland, consultant analyst at Forrester Research. "For the larger projects, good retailers will have planned far in advance. They will   have really learned from last year where merchants were not able to get products out on time and had to refund customers."Even atAmazon.co.uk, which has a customer service record most online retailers envy, preparations for the seasonal rush began long ago."This is our third Christmas, and one always wants to say that we're going to do a better job than we ever did before, but in fact we did a really good job last year," boasts Steve Frazier, managing director of Amazon.co.uk. "The challenge for us is that we've gone on every quarter since then and done more business each quarter. What Christmas really means is that you are stepping up to the next plateau - it's like 2001 is happening in December."You have all this preparation and then it's showtime - you've got to do a really, really good job in November and December to persuade people that you're in business and doing a good job."Over the past year, the e-tailing giant's staff has been working on adding new product ranges and making its website run more efficiently in preparation for the end of year rush. The site's help section has been renovated ("we've discovered customers like to help themselves") and its "Christmas messaging" - on-screen details like ordering deadlines for the Christmas post and the various gift options - have been tweaked to make them more easily seen and understood.But most of all, Amazon has been trying to get across one message: we can deliver. At Christmas more than any other time of the year, says Frazier, "that whole question of how you are taking care of that basic thing - getting packages to customers - becomes tremendously important".To that end, Amazon's advertising campaign is being co-sponsored by the Royal Mail, which delivers its parcels. The message is clear: you can depend on Amazon not just because it's Amazon, but because the Royal Mail is delivering. "We think that this point - that Amazon can be relied upon to make Christmas happen - is something that people in this market need reminding of," says Frazier. "There has been enough doubt and confusion sown in e-commerce that we thought it was important to tell people: you really will get this stuff."That has also led to Amazon's slogan for the year - "a real company in a virtual world". "I'm pretty sure it's not a slogan for the ages," laughs Frazier, "but I'm sure it's a slogan for the year 2000. We saw how many companies failed to do a good job last Christmas, and our feeling was that this would be a year of doubts and confusion about e-commerce."At the other end of the scale are companies    such as Father Christmas Ltd - a tiny web operation based in Cambridgeshire which emerges for only a few months at the end of each year. It relies on potential customers "domain dipping" and typing in its prime web addresses such aswww.santa-claus.comandwww.Christmas.co.ukby chance, rather than advertising. But despite the differences in scale its managing director, Stephen Bottomley, seems to be grappling with the same issues as his giant competitor."This may sound strange coming from the MD of an e-tail site, but the perception of e-tailing is not good at the moment," says Bottomley. "That needs to change, and there's no way that is going to change in time for this Christmas. The only thing that you can do as an e-tailer is offer guarantees - like money back, no quibble guarantees should the worst happen - advise on when people should place their order so that it arrives at the right time, that kind of thing."But Bottomley also says that for him, unlike many e-commerce MDs, this is not the vital e-christmas for his company. "I don't think this will be the one," he says. "I think next Christmas will be more important, simply because of all the hurdles online retailers have to clear this time around. There's the confidence in fulfilment, security online and more, and I don't believe that this is the make or break Christmas."For some in the industry, the hurdles being put in e-tailers' way by nervous investors and consumers is a frustration. James Roper of the Interactive Media in Retail Group (IMRG) admits that he gets annoyed by e-tailers making the same mistakes but says he thinks the lack of faith has "got a bit silly.""I think this is a fundamental change in the way we communicate and do business and it will take many years - if not decades - to fully bed in," he says. "Everything is having to be realigned from banking services to shipping, from media to how we spend our time and everything else. We set up the IMRG group because we realised that it was just far more complicated than people thought. We're   getting just so fed up with people making the same mistakes over and over again."He says consumers are at much less risk than the media claims, thanks to protection from credit card companies against online fraud and a raft of new European legislation which means online shoppers have more legal protection than  those in the high streets."There has been such noise about consumers' exposure, yet frankly there has been little - if any - consumer exposure. Anybody who uses a credit card is comprehensively protected, and now the law means you are more protected buying online thanfrom a shop," he says."It's very unhelpful to generalise because a lot of consumers, who only know   what they see in the press, are very anxious. But those people who have actually shopped on the net find it works and continue. We find that people, in their first year online, have small ad hoc trials, but in their second year they get serious about it, booking holidays and flights and choosing what car to buy."This pattern of tentative first steps in e-commerce, followed by much more extensive - and expensive - e-shopping, is reported by many e-tailers. Forrester's Leland says that much of the growth in e-commerce is fuelled by more experienced net users overcoming their fears and using online stores more often. "Consumers who have been online for three years are two and a half times   more likely to shop online than when they were in their first year," she says."There is a sort of cumulative effect of both new people coming online and &#91;existing users&#93; buying more online, so it's natural to see continual growth. The holiday season is just all the new users being combined with the added incentive they have to spend at this time of year."Yet all this festive good cheer could still be tempered by e-commerce's continuing challenges. No matter how efficient the dot.com is at its end, fulfilment can still be a problem, as anyone who has attempted to have bulky items delivered to their home will   testify. Even the much simpler, but equally vital, signposting on e-tail sites is still a problem, with many dot.coms not including the simplest details such as contact telephone numbers and addresses to reassure nervous customers.And many consumers - especially the large number of first-time shoppers this Christmas - are still wary of handing over credit card details. "There is a big discrepancy between the number of shopping carts which are started versus those which are checked out," says Leland. "Usually about two-thirds of shopping cards are abandoned; that's down to a lot of things including finding out that the items are not available, that the merchandise cannot be shipped to wherever they are, but a lot of it has to do with security."Many expect to see a few big name e-tailers go to the wall after Christmas, although it will be the cumulative effect of a number of factors, including the City's harsh attitude towards dot.coms, that will trip them up, rather than a bad festive season.For those with more secure finances, all they can do is be good boys and girls this Christmas, helping themselves as much as they can through improved sites, better organisation and customer service, and hope that Santa brings them calmer consumers, and markets, next year.Is ordering online safe?Online shopping is safe - if you follow these tips.1Before you buy, check out the site. Does it give an address (not a PO box) and a telephone number to call if things go wrong?2Check its policy on returning goods. It should be properly explained and straightforward.3Does the site tell you when the goods will arrive? You   should have an estimated time of delivery, so you can chase up your order.4Is the site based in the UK or European Union? If it is, you are covered by a raft of new consumer laws.5Pay by credit card - that way, you're covered further against fraud. Charge cards and cheques do not carry the same levels of protection.6Enter credit card details   only when using a secure server. Your browser should tell you when you are entering a secure area and the little padlock in its bottom left hand corner should close. The address will begin https:// (rather than http://).7Look out for schemes such as the Which? Webtrader, which give reassurance that the vendor is complying with a basic set of standards.8Keep records. Print out or   save the confirmation screen after you have placed your order. It often includes details like telephone numbers and your order number.9Ask around. Friends may tell you that big high-street names have terrible online service, while online-only stores are much more eager to please.10Don't buy from unsolicited emails or newsgroup postings.
British farmers are desperately trying to stay afloat against the combined pressures of the strong pound, rising fuel costs and exclusion from a share of the profits reaped by the retailers. In these circumstances, diversification has become the farmer's byword.A report published by Deloitte and Touche last month notes that farmers have experienced a 90% drop in earnings over the past five years, and should expect heavy losses next year also. The accountancy firm projects the £8,000 average profit made by the British farmer this year will be a £4,000 deficit next year, despite massive cost cutting and redundancies in the sector.
As such, the problems facing the 200-acre Manor Farm Granaries, near Huntingdon in Cambridgeshire, are no different to any other.But lessons can be learned from the way farmer Stuart Loakes and his family has gone about diversifying their business. The Loakeses moved away from growing mixed crops in the 60s, to eventually concentrate on birdseed, which they sell in their own farm shop. They then established a mail order business in 1992 and in April this year took that business online, from which they now sell seed for wild birds and fish, plus merchandise from other farmers in the area.According to Stuart Loakes, who manages the farm with wife Rosalie and brother Philip,manor-farm-granaries.co.ukwas up and running within six months on start-up costs of around £20,000, which covered the website, database, new computers and brochures.
This could be considered chickenfeed by some venture capital-backed upstarts, but is an entirely different matter for a cash-hungry farmer.The start-up costs plus an additional £80,000 spent on new weighing, packing and seed cleaning machinery over the last 12 months, means that with turnover for the site currently at less than £1m, the business is expected to break even within three years.
Last month the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fishing (MAFF) announced the Processing and Marketing grant, a fund providing support for capital investment in projects aimed at improving the processing and marketing of agricultural products in order to increase their competitiveness in the marketplace. But there is a catch. To be eligible, farmers must have up to £70,000 to invest, for which the government will provide up to 30% of costs towards their project - deemed unrealistic by more than a few, so far.Loakes employed the consultancy services of Peter Cooke in 1992 to set up the mail order business. When Cooke became principal at Morton Hodson management consultants operating out of Cambridge, he was perfectly placed to help with getting the farm online.
Cooke's firm designed and runs the business-to-consumer website, and he recommended both web hosting and the site's online transaction system, which allows secure online credit and debit card transactions, from the NetInvest Group, which provides one-stop internet services to small and large businesses."It was a case of rejuvenating the business, along with having a new sales channel," recalls Cooke, who project-manages the site. "I helped with this as part of the pilot phase of the Technology Means Business initiative that was launched around the same time."
Formally launched in March by Patricia Hewitt, minister for small businesses and e-commerce, the Technology Means Business (TMB) project is the brainchild of the Institute of Management. It provides a network of accredited advisers with expertise in both business and technology issues to small and medium-sized companies.Both Loakes and Cooke believe the rejuvenation of Manor Farm Granaries has worked, in as much as up to 95% of its online customers are new prospects. "It's just like another, nationwide shop out there for everyone to see our wares on display." Loakes enthuses.
Aside from transforming the business, there have been personal transformations too. Before going online, Loakes's only experience with computers had been to use a word processor for the odd letter, but by his own admission is now "very good with spreadsheets". He contacts Cooke mainly by email as it cuts down on the number of calls he needs to make while tied up on some corner of the farm.Although manor-farm-granaries.co.uk has a basic front end, it obeys the fundamental laws of e-commerce. It has a robust database at the back end that stores and manipulates final product seed mixes that consist of a multitude of ingredients and combinations, often with fluctuating cost prices. It has an order processing application that links orders from the browser's shopping trolley interface to the farm's sales office system, which integrates with Manor Farm Granaries' mail order business. The system also incorporates a spreadsheet to monitor the costs of hundreds of products, yields, margins, and price/ weight options for each of the farm's three sales channels."Having the mail order business made it easier to go online, because we had a distribution system and were used to handling credit card transactions," says Loakes.
But the dominant concern for the site is delivery. Order fulfilment was found wanting during the earlier stages of selling online. It is now carried out by Business Express, signed up by the farm after initial "problems" with Parcel Force. However, the fear of losing customers through poor delivery remains prominent in the Loakeses minds.Delivery is currently only within the UK, although orders as far flung as Finland have been honoured. Loakes explains that because the cost of shipping rises above the value of the seed itself, large-scale exporting is uneconomical. "The seed is cheap, but dispatching 25 kilo sacks of it abroad isn't, so at this point it is not viable." Loakes thinks the onus is on the delivery companies to develop cheaper, more efficient overseas routes.
Future plans include a B2B element through which the farm can develop online relations with trading customers such as garden centres and agents, and through which it can render its own supply chain more efficient.
As setting up shop on the web is increasingly seen as a realistic option for many a beleaguered farm, perhaps the only ones to survive in the 21st century will be virtual.&#149; See alsowww.technologymeansbusiness.org.uk,www.mortonhodson-cambridge.co.ukandwww.maff.gov.uk
To sum up what effective IT security is all about requires just three letters. CIA is the holy trinity of the anti-hackers, which stands for Confidentiality, Integrity, Availability. If you can keep your private information private, if you can trust the accuracy of your data, and if your staff can always gain access to information when they need it then, to quote Kipling, you've got exceedingly good security.But with CIA comes a problem. If you're a relatively small company, you probably can't afford to employ people specifically to keep your PCs safe from hackers, viruses, porn and all the other associated nasties that afflict modern-day computing. More than likely, the security problem will be dumped on whoever knows most about computers in general.Without the luxury of a full-time security person you have to prioritise, and this isn't as easy as it sounds. Many companies make the mistake of concentrating too much on availability of information while neglecting to protect confidentiality and integrity. It's easy to understand why this happens, as a loss of data availability means that no one can do any work. But neglect data confidentiality and integrity for too long and it might be the last mistake your company ever makes.Data confidentiality is crucial to every company. Although your computers are largely filled with unexciting stuff, there are almost certainly a handful of key files without which you could not trade, and which would cause serious problems if your competitors managed to obtain copies. Your customer database, for example, the plans and costings for the products you're launching next year, or even the file of customer complaints. After all, if your competitors know what people don't like about your products they can develop something without those weaknesses.
Data integrity, meanwhile, means having confidence that a software bug, a hacker or a virus hasn't altered key information in your files without your knowledge. Not all viruses wipe the entire hard disk of all information, and not all hackers do something as obvious as replacing the entire content of your website with porn. Small changes are often more dangerous than large ones because they can easily go unnoticed.You can normally recover from major problems by restoring your information from backups. (You do have recent backups, don't you?  And you have remembered to keep them somewhere other than the office, just in case the place burns down?) But if a hacker increased just a couple of the prices in your online web catalogue, it's unlikely that you'd ever notice. Well, not until the sales department started to ask why no one was ordering those items anymore.With so many different threats to your data, is there anything you can do to protect your secrets from the nosey, greedy and malicious? Yes, and it needn't be expensive.
The crucial point to remember is not to wade straight in with chequebook. Instead, start with a little risk analysis. Find out where your main vulnerabilities lie. There's no use putting all your budget into protecting the chairman's PC if all the juicy stuff is actually held by the secretary or the HR person.After the risk analysis, make sure you have an IT security policy so that staff members know what they are and aren't permitted to do with the PC on their desk. Surfing porn sites should be prohibited at all times. Whether you allow game-playing, share-trading and other more leisurely use of the web during office hours is up to you.Once you know where your weaknesses are, you can set about fixing them. Encryption software is a good idea, especially for laptops. It will scramble the information on the hard disk, and only unscramble it for those who know the password. So if a PC is stolen your data won't end up in the public domain. Without encryption, persuading your insurers to replace lost hardware is the least of your problems.Next, work on your antivirus software. If it hasn't been updated in the last month it won't be able to detect the latest viruses. If any staff work from home, put antivirus software on those machines too. Your licence may well allow this already, for no extra cost.
Microsoft regularly issues security fixes for Windows and for applications such as Office. Over 90 patches have already been issued this year.Check outwww.microsoft.com/securityfor the must-have patches. Without them your systems will be more vulnerable to attacks from hackers, malicious websites and viruses.
If you use the internet a lot, and especially if your server is permanently connected to it, install a firewall if you don't already have one. A firewall is a program which examines all data travelling between your PCs and the internet in both directions. You can specify which type of data to allow, and which to reject, based on the type of data and the route it's taking. So you could use it to allow email from clients but not from employees' friends. Or to prohibit staff from accessing certain websites.Without a firewall, your server is just as much a part of the internet as any public website, and all your files could be instantly accessible to any competent hacker from anywhere in the world. A firewall will prevent all but the most determined hacker accessing your files this way.
The market-leading firewall isFirewall-1, though check outZoneAlarmfor something much cheaper and simpler to install.Unfortunately, however much you spend on security products, you can never be 100% safe from computer crime. No firewall can protect you from an employee giving copies of your files to a competitor because he's being conned, bribed or blackmailed into doing so. To protect against this requires constant vigilance by all staff and regular training.
As one security commentator said recently, good security is not a product but a state of mind.Jargon busterCIA:Confidentiality, integrity and accessibility - the three key factors which can keep your vital business data secure.Firewall:A piece of software designed to stop hackers from getting into your system. It allows your data to leave your computer or network and head out on to the internet, but allows only appropriate information to come into your computers from the net.Hackers:Used to be merely the term for people who programmed computers, but now it is more often used to describe malicious computer users who are intent on stealing information or wreaking havoc on your computer. They target all sorts of users, from big corporations (Microsoft was a recent victim) to individual PCs - especially those that are connected to the internet for long periods.&#149; Robert Schifreen (hex@cix.co.uk) is a security consultant
As an SME, if you have already embraced technology and your business is now dependent on it, getting the right staff - or indeed any staff - to keep your systems up and running is a nightmare. There is no magic pool of qualified IT people sitting out there - it's a river and the technical bods are salmon, fighting their way upstream and into the best positions.Today, even more SMEs are dependent on technology to keep their businesses not only running, but also profitable and competitive. In order to tackle the rapid pace of change in the marketplace they have to employ new business methods that depend on emerging technologies. Innovation and entrepreneurship are being held back by the continued IT skills shortage within the SME sector."Nearly two years ago we had this wonderful idea to provide an internet-only agency aimed specifically at providing pay-as-you-go professional services to smaller companies," says Barrie Desmond, managing director of Multimedia PR and Marketing Services, based in Monmouth, south Wales. "The early field trials were compelling, and potential clients who saw the blueprint of the service raved, but the technical integration challenges and focus needed 
were such that the idea  sits mothballed while we  wait for the local university  to try and help resource IT people for the project."In a recent independent survey of small businesses, carried out by 3Com, 82% of respondents stated that their companies were growing or changing aggressively. This means further investment in IT. Startlingly, the majority of these businesses do not have a full-time IT manager and three quarters have no written IT strategy or plans."By not having the appropriate IT expertise, some SMEs may be risking their very existence," cautions Simon Churan, director of Certes Group, a specialist IT recruitment company. "IT affects how organisations do business - for example, the effectiveness of their e-business strategy may be vital for competitive advantage, and therefore business performance, and may ultimately determine their survival."For managers with little IT knowledge, the problem is one of making sure that technology does not end up controlling the business and that business need really is the determining factor for the adoption of new technology.However, in the recruitment stakes, smaller companies can offer advantages over the larger, blue-chip corporates. Get Real Systems, a small e-procurement vendor employing 25 people, is constantly on the search for good IT staff. It uses its location near York to entice technical people out of the cities. "Quality of life is much better here, and where else could you work in a converted cow shed and barn in the middle of the countryside where the view out of the window is of green fields?" says boss Mark McCarthy.While money is important, for many IT staff it is not the overriding factor. The main attraction of working in a small company can be the variety of work and the unusual experience to be gained. Most SMEs need good all-rounders with value-added specialisms, and many are prepared to invest in training while allowing a  degree of creative on-the-job experimentation with new technologies. The downside for some individuals is that they are likely to be working on their own, and many of the tasks - such as keeping the email running and the printers working - may end up being repetitive.Smaller companies simply offer a different option to candidates, not a worse one. For many, the options of increased working flexibility, diversity of role, a sharper focus on the impact of their activities on the bottom line and a feeling of truly making a difference are enough to tip the balance.Currently, networking is the most fashionable method of recruitment, according to Robert Ames of the Data Company. Taking personal recommendation and word-of-mouth one step further and offering cash rewards to employees who recommend successful people, often helps to ensure a good fit with existing company culture and working practices.Small companies are disillusioned by the poor value that they have received through traditional recruitment agencies."One guy was doing a day job as a marketing executive but, according to the agency, did 'techie' things at night on his Commodore PC," recalls Desmond. "He'd been built  up so much by this agency that this cheeky little upstart was arrogant and selfish to the point where we wanted  to terminate the interview  by throwing him out of the window."However, Jonathan Greig, CEO of Framfab UK believes that agencies still offer some of the best options for recruitment: "Search hard for the right recruitment partner. The cost may be high, but they can be an excellent  culture protector for your business. We found a really good agency - IT Moves - they are like our right hand and live, breathe, eat and drink with us. It's the only way for them to understand what we are looking for, find the right recruits and then enthuse as much as we do about Framfab."Anna Jones of Akibia believes that the recruitment of IT staff should be handled exactly like a courtship. "IT specialists don't feel valued if they are given a job offer after only a telephone interview, as sometimes happens - that smacks of desperation. You have to entice them into your company. That way you'll get the best out of them for your business."Regardless of whether you are a small or large company, there is no easy answer to the pervasive issues surrounding the recruiting of good IT people. The unfortunate truth is that there are still four vacancies for every candidate. However, as a small business you have to get yourself out  of the mindset that you will always be the poor relation in the recruitment stakes. Once you start focusing on selling the attributes and advantages of working for a small, dynamic company where the IT specialists can actually make a visible difference to the business, then you stand a chance of winning the battle.Action list&#149;  If your business and its continuing success is dependent on technology, then IT and recruitment should be a board issue, with a supporting IT strategic plan.&#149;  Money is not the overriding factor for many IT staff, as long as you pay competitively. Identify and then sell the other benefits you can offer - location, job variety, experience with new technology, training, and a positive input into the business.&#149;  Consider rewarding personal recommendations as a serious method for staff recruitment.&#149;  If you outsource recruitment to an agency, then expect to spend time with them so they fully understand your needs and requirements and will then truly work with you.&#149;  Consider using the internet as a recruitment medium.&#149;  Court your IT staff, and demonstrate their value to the business by showing respect for their position.
It is hard being an SME in this world of the internet and e-business. You feel bewildered. Everyone tells you to get into e-business at once or else competitors from all over the world will take away your livelihood. At the same time you have been assaulted by stories of dot.com failures and the dangers of using the world wide web, especially for making payments.A Which Online survey earlier this year showed that 51% of internet users have not purchased anything online, only 23% of users think it is safe to use credit cards online and yet 73% of e-traders did not give details of their contract terms online. Clearly we have a crisis of confidence at a time when all about are singing the praises of e-business.It is true that the use of the internet is intensifying the market economy of sellers and buyers in the business to business arena (b2b) in many parts of the world. The development of a common language for electronic business, based onXML, allows retailers and manufacturers to process orders and forecast demand across every continent. These b2b marketplaces are being developed in many sectors (seewww.timberweb.com,www.e-steel.com,www.elogistics.com) and are truly worldwide. Again, the fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) companies, ranging from Ahold to Wal*Mart and Danone to Unilever are in the forefront, using the internet to accelerate the supply chain from manufacturer to consumer, reducing costs, giving shorter negotiating cycles, offering additional sourcing capabilities to buyers. These marketplaces do also offer new sales channels, bigger reach and increased profits to suppliers and manufacturers, many of whom are SMEs.There are sane and sensible reasons for SMEs to become part of this global internet world. The important thing is to develop enough understanding and experience to have trust and confidence in working in this e-world. There are many good case studies of UK SMEs that have embraced e-business to their advantage, ranging from companies such as Pentwyn Splicers in South Wales (www.splicer.co.uk), a small specialist firm making pneumatic yarn splicers, to Cooksons, a Stockport firm selling 50,000 different lines of tools (www.cooksons.com) to other businesses.The following 10 suggested steps are the sort of things that may have started them on the road to best practice:1. Business Process Analysis - remember that e-business is not an end in itself but a means to an end. Be clear about your business objectives first and only then consider how e-business can help. An essential starting point for all businesses is to consider the following: what are your objectives, which e-business activities can help you achieve these, at what cost (ie cost to your business v perceived benefits) and how can this be realised (ie a plan of action)?2. Consider what your customers require from you (and talk with them about this) and how you can achieve these more easily through electronic processes (eg processing orders, providing information, more efficient administration procedures). Do you need to exchange information securely, using encryption or electronic signatures?3. See the bigger picture: look at integrating all aspects of your business electronically. Identify every aspect of your business, both front and back end (ie what the customer sees and doesn't see), and consider what is required/ how you can integrate all these activities electronically.4. Itemise exactly what e-business activities you want to use. For example, email, marketing on the internet, online trading, EDI, automated stock control. Consider the purpose of each of these activities and what you expect each activity to achieve, eg to save time, to minimise human error of data entries, to increase awareness of your company or to generate more sales. Do a breakdown of the different aspects of each e-business activity and what you believe it may entail: specialist equipment, software, trained staff, other factors/ resources?5. Consult widely as to what the appropriate business solutions are, such as IT equipment and software. Consider whether your supplier has an "ethical dealings" policy, proven experience, runs a viable business, can provide a cost effective solution with a timely delivery.6. Seek independent advice, particularly on what the best practices and standards are. You may not be aware, but the e-business solution you adopt may not be universally used, which may turn out to be a very costly waste of time, money and other valuable resources.7. Consider the legal and financial implications of your e-business activities: e-centreUK and other support agencies, such as Business Links, can provide independent advice on these areas.8. Review your business objectives and the performance of your e-business activities regularly. With technology moving so fast, your business or sector may be significantly affected and you will need to alter your plans accordingly. Invest in an e-business review process, such as the e-commerce scorecard (www.e-commscore.com) which lets you establish and monitor key e-business performance measures and points the way ahead.9. Make sure you can fulfil the expectations of your trading partners and/or customers. A new website for orders/inquiries is not much good if you respond to emails once a week, or cannot deliver items on time, or find that your new electronic communications channels are not compatible with other key trading partners. A survey by Reuters found that one in 10 online orders never arrived!10. Maintenance of systems is crucial, as is having a total recovery service. Get your IT specialist to consider each individual aspect of your e-business activity, and to identify possible weak links and problem areas. Consider how your business would cope with a partial or total collapse (eg power failure, fire, burst water pipes, security infringement of databases).
And when you train staff make sure that you start with the MD!About a year ago the Cabinet Office produced an excellent report on e-business in the UK, entitled e-commerce@its.best.uk (www.cabinet-office.gov.uk/innovation/index.htm) which said that building a stable environment for e-business needed awareness, access, trust and confidence. There are many initiatives about e-business awareness, ranging from the sorts of thing that independent bodies like e centre do (www.e-centre.org.ukwww.e-centre.org.uk) to the major government initiatives through Business Links and the new Government portals (www.ukonlineforbusiness.gov.uk). The issue of access to good internet services at reasonable costs (during business hours) has been discussed at length elsewhere.Finally we (that is business and government) all need to work together to really build this trust and confidence in e-business, based on an open environment in which we can all develop best practice so that the UK and its many SMEs can flourish.&#149; Dr Roger Till is director of e-centreUK,roger.till@e-centre.org
You may not have noticed it but small businesses have been in the headlines this year as never before. It is not common knowledge because they haven't been calling  themselves small businesses but "dot.coms" instead. They made big headlines during the year - but small sales. Clickmango, the internet site that was promoted by Joanna Lumley, got lots of publicity, but when it collapsed it turned out that its weekly turnover was barely £4,000 - probably less than your local corner shop. Even Lastminute.com, by far the plummiest of the new web companies, recorded revenues of only £409,000 during the quarter in which it was floated on the stock markets at a mind-numbing £800m.The decidedly mixed fortunes of the dot.coms this year should be seen not as a net turn-off for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) but as an opportunity - a wake-up call and a great chance to learn from the mistakes of the so-called "first movers".The biggest mistake was to think that having a web presence was all you needed to succeed in the new economy. In fact, most of the collapsed dot.coms failed to appreciate the old economy virtues of marketing and delivery. They ended up spending vast sums in newspapers and on television (hardly ever on the web) to draw people's attention to their websites and even more trying to deliver on time. Small wonder that most of them simply ended up selling old economy goods in a more expensive way than traditional companies.None of this will be a surprise to anyone involved with the fortunes of small firms, some 50% of which fail (or get taken over) within the first four years of their existence. This is part of the process of creative capitalism because those that succeed often do very well indeed. The only difference this year was that all the failures came under the media spotlight (because of the glamour of the dot.com suffix) whereas normally they go unreported.The moral is not to run away from the e-commerce - that could prove fatal - but to make sure you have a strategy appropriate to the kind of business you are in. Companies selling commodity goods, where customers know exactly what they will get before they order (like wine, books, ball bearings, cameras or many standard foods) are ideal for selling through the  web. Others, like fashion goods, shoes and anything where the customer likes to see it or try it on are usually inappropriate.SMEs are embracing the internet at a fairly rapid rate  but not nearly fast enough if they want to gain a competitive edge in world markets. A recent Mori survey carried out for Compaq showed that while 71% of small businesses use email, only 19% are currently using the internet to sell their goods and services.There is still a long way to go before achieving the government's aim of getting a million SMEs trading online by 2002. The relatively high rate of emailing is not as encouraging as it looks because it means that 30% of our smaller companies are not even using a simple tool that could greatly improve their speed of communication and therefore their efficiency.
It is amazing how many small business people still have a bit of a phobia about using email, a tool the basics of which can be learned in a matter of minutes. The Mori survey found out that almost half of small businesses still relied on word-of-mouth to learn about business-critical information - yet practically anything they want is only a click away on the computer screen if they use the internet.There are lots of ways that proper use of a website can improve business efficiency. These days if a potential customer anywhere in the world wants to know more about your company, its first port of call is your website. If it is a good one (which doesn't mean an expensive or elaborate one) then it will not only get a good initial image of the company  but might be  led on to buy other things. If there is a facility to buy them immediately online then it could lead to increased business (often cutting out the commissions you would otherwise have to pay to intermediaries).If, at the same time, you are buying your raw materials and components (or wholesale goods) from one of the burgeoning number of electronic marketplaces, then you will be able to cut the cost of your supplies as well as taking a higher margin from sales.
 But if companies don't embrace the internet, the world won't stop for them. Increasingly, they will be competing with other companies all over the world who are exploiting the advantages of the web, thereby enabling them to quote cheaper prices. So if small companies don't embrace the web they could face slow attrition as they gradually become less and 
less competitive than those who do.&#149; Victor Keegan is editor of the Online section
Andy Grove, chief executive of microchip giant Intel, once said that if you weren't doing business online in a few years, you wouldn't be doing business at all.
The famous quote was taken to mean that shops the world over would be pulling down their shutters for good, in favour of selling everything via a website. It is understandable, then, that even some of the world's biggest companies balked in the face of such aggressive techno-evangelism. It was hard to imagine that this wasn't all just hype, and that the internet could possibly change the business world that much.Of course, Grove was not predicting a complete end to traditional business. He meant that businesses would have to incorporate at least some new economy thinking to succeed in the years ahead. And he has been proved right: for big business, we know that the world has changed dramatically.Giants such as car manufacturers General Motors and Ford are getting together to create multibillion-dollar electronic marketplaces, to negotiate prices for the thousands of parts they need to source for each machine. Closer to home, established retailers such as Tesco, aggressively expanding their "real world" stores, have also had to move to accommodate a new generation of shoppers who want low prices - but also want to order online and get their weekly shopping delivered to their home.These corporate giants, with their multimillion-pound online initiatives and multibillion pound deals, grab the headlines. But with 99.2% of businesses in the UK employing under 50 people, it could be said that Grove's predicted e-revolution has yet to touch very much of Britain's business community."One in two employees in larger companies have access to the internet," says David Hands of the Federation of Small Businesses. "In smaller businesses they're getting there. But in micro-businesses of less than 10 workers, which is 95% of the business make-up of the UK, there's still a low internet usage."Hands says that for many small businesses, using the internet is still something of a novelty. "Those ones that do are typically a long way from having their own website." 
 That is certainly the message from a survey of SMEs carried out by Durlacher Research, the findings of which were published in August. It found that while 90% of SMEs are now connected to the internet, only 41% of employees are given access, and only 34% of staff make any use of connections where they are available. Durlacher rated only 1% of SMEs as fitting their profile of "cutting edge" internet users, while 10% were regarded as "luddites".Durlacher analyst Sarah Skinner says there is still a great deal of confusion about what smaller businesses should be doing with technology. "The general message of the report was that there was movement, but there is a fair way to go in terms of being a power user - an aggressive user of a range of technologies," she says."As a starting point, though, the penetration of SMEs with internet access has grown to saturation point - about 90%. That's quite a jump, if you think that a year ago quite a lot of SMEs had no kind of connection at all. So basic usage is growing. 
"But in terms of major investment, it has been very small, especially in e-commerce and e-commerce applications. There is confusion in the market: people know they have to be there, but don't know what to do."So what is holding back the country's smaller firms? There are a variety of factors, says Hands. "Small businesses don't have anyone to nominate to take on technology projects, and often it's the business owner's own money being used," he points out."It's not like someone in a big company who's given £500,000 to go off and put in place an IT strategy. It's more basic - the owner/manager going out and deciding what's good. And often they can be confused by what's out there, because a lot of business owners are of an age that have missed being educated about high-tech at school. There are a lot of younger people starting up, but the average age of startups is still in the late 30s. There has to be an education campaign as well."There will be a growth spurt in investment, however, over the next 12 months. Durlacher estimates that while the average SME has not spent huge amounts so far (on average, around £18,000 to date), the relative growth in e-commerce applications will be considerable - up to £17,300 for small companies over the next year alone, and £26,700 for larger SMEs. Perhaps encouraging this investment is the fact that businesses will be able to take advantage of an investment allowance introduced at the last budget, which will allow technology costs to be written off against profits for the next three years.Also making internet-related investment more attractive is the imminent fall in price of internet connections. Unmetered internet access, after months of wrangling and high-profile failures, is finally available to the mass market through dial-up ISPs such as AOL, meaning businesses can access the internet right through the working day without worrying about massive telephone bills. "In business, people go on the net at peak time - lower rates will encourage a lot of people," points out Hands.But getting businesses online with cheaper net connections is, of course, only the beginning. What are they expected to do when they get online?
"The kind of thing that could get them online includes the government's initiative to allow tax returns to be submitted electronically, with a rebate on any returns you send in. It's not major money - £50 here and there - but more people will get involved if they are more aware of opportunities like that," says Hands. 
"Once they've invested in the technology they can look at other things; not selling to the consumer online, perhaps, but buying online from other suppliers certainly. It's a gradual learning process, and there's still a bit of work to do."Jargon-busterADSL:Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line - a way of upgrading ordinary telephone lines to offer an always on, high speed link to the net for a flat fee.ASP:Application Service Provider - an online provider of software applications and services.B2B:Businesses selling to other businesses.B2C:Businesses selling to consumers.Broadband:Fast data connections via ADSL or cable.Trading hub:A community where buyers and sellers trade together in a central online location.&#149; Neil McIntosh is deputy editor of the Online section
Regular readers of Online might be familiar with the story of how Adam Driscol - along with fellow founders Be Rozzo, Jeremy Ledlin and Nick Moore - gave Oasis their first London gig and only made a net profit of three quid. Their response has been to embrace the net. Now they film every gig of every unsigned band that plays at their venue, archive them, and plan to sell them on the internet once a broadband market is established, and the bands have made it big.
Channelfly began archiving the bands last summer. Nearly 200 different bands play at the venue each year, and the archive already holds exclusive concert footage of chart newcomers Coldplay, Badly Drawn Boy and current industry darlings Elbow and Idlewild. But to build a successful music distribution company, Channelfly says you have to consolidate your business in the offline world, and boost your takings by building revenue streams offline.The company now owns the Student Broadcast Network (a network of 49 college stations) and hosts a Channel 4 late-night music show, the Barfly Sessions - held at the Monarch in the heart of London's indie scene. It makes money through the door of the venue and behind the bar. It sells advertisements in the magazine and on SBN and sells content to companies like iChooseTV. Channelfly already sells MP3s on its website, but says it has to play a waiting game while the market for digital distribution is established.Channelfly raised money through the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) and went for its first round of funding in November last year. It raised £3.5m with an initial share price of 50p. The company returned to the AIM market in July this year and raised a further £4m through an institutional placing.Since August, the company, which employs over 50 people, has sought to consolidate and last month they even dropped the dot.com suffix from their name. With investor disillusionment about dot.coms increasing, Channelfly says it wants its name to reflect the broad nature of its business. Channelfly is still not in profit, and its share price has slid as confidence in internet companies has subsided. But it insists it has enough money to wait for broadband to kick in.
So, clearly, this means that to have a successful online music company, you have to be able to make money in the offline world. That there is a market for digital music distribution, Channelfly is in little doubt. And it says that when that happens, it will have a diverse company that can promote music on several platforms - and that is the key to online music success.
What's bugging you?Few would deny that Novell is losing out to Microsoft in the networking market, as companies choose Windows NT over NetWare for their servers. But it's good to see that there's one area where Novell scores heavily over its rival, and that's in the size of its bug fixes.
The latest service pack for Microsoft Windows 2000 weighs in at around 80Mb. But if your company runs on NetWare 5.1 and you want the collection of fixes released last week by Novell, your modem will be working overtime. Service Pack 2, as it's called, is a shade over 280Mb. At typical modem speeds that's well over 24 hours on the phone (though thankfully you can order it on CD too).Most companies produce downloadable service packs for their major products at least once a year. It's a cheap way to introduce minor new features and to fix bugs. But even Novell is aware of just how unfeasibly large some of these packs are becoming, as it has published a page on its website offering advice on managing large downloads. It recommends that you use a program which will allow you to resume the transfer if the connection drops during the download instead of having to start again from the beginning. Yes, having to start again when you're 90% through would probably be a tad frustrating.Music to your earsIt looked for a while as if music-swapping site Napster was to be shut down. But despite ongoing legal action from many US record companies the system is still in business, servicing its reported 35m, users worldwide.The momentum now looks unstoppable, especially following last month's deal with Bertelsmann and the opening up of the service to Apple Mac users.
The latest company to jump on the Napster bandwagon is Headlight Software, responsible for the excellent GetRight download manager.  GetRight adds the ability to pause downloads, and to resume downloads that are interrupted by dropped phone connections or website timeouts. It's a favourite tool among users of free internet service providers which prevent excessive usage by dropping the line every two hours or so.Headlight's new program, to be launched shortly, allows web browsers to access services which are not HTML-based. The first version of File Funnel, as the product will be called, will allow access to Napster for locating and downloading MP3 files without the need to use Napster's own client software. And yes, it will work with GetRight, which is something that the standard Napster software won't. If you want to be sent an email when File Funnel is launched, sign up atwww.getright.com/ filefunnel.html.Number crunchingAnother month: another welter of statistics about British SMEs' take up of the internet. A new NOP survey suggests they are jumping into e-commerce in ever greater numbers.
A total of 42% of companies now have a website, and 45% of those think it has increased revenues. However, while a further 34% think it will increase revenue over the next six months, a similar proportion think it will never account for more than 50% of sales.
There's good news for BT, however: while it might not be winning any friends for its heel-dragging over new technology, it is, at least, winning a hefty chunk of business from Britain's SMEs.
BT is the most popular ISP among businesses with between 10 and 499 employees. It is also the most recognised supplier of access to the internet among companies which do not have net connections.Duff informationA new poll from business information service Hoover's Online Europe suggests "dot.com workers are exchanging objectivity and accuracy for speed and convenience" when looking up vital business information. 
The poll shows that 68%of dot.com staff looking for information think company websites give a truthful and honest account of the company's activities.
The internet might have thrown up its very own forms of art but it is not just designated digital artists who are now taking advantage of computer technology.A number of professional painters, sculptors, illustrators and print makers are making art that includes computer technology in some part of their creative process. The work does not always look digital, so the paintbrush and chisel are not doomed yet. But there is little doubt that computers are now a valuable assistant for even the most traditional of disciplines.Yesterday saw the launch of Artfutures, an exhibition, held at the Barbican Centre in central London. The show is the work of Contemporary Art Society (CAS) and Hewlett-Packard. It features more than 1,000 new works from a variety of different artists. The event raises money for donations to museums and galleries. ARTfutures features the e-magination exhibition, showing how British artists and designers have been creative with new technologyOne of the artists is David Austen, a professional painter who has had solo shows in London, Los Angeles and Amsterdam. Hewlett Packard loaned Austen an HP Colour LaserJet 8550 a week before the show. Austen was asked to produce work that could be printed on it. He handpainted five separate prints in editions of 200.In return for the loan, HP gets an extra avenue to publicise its wares (the Barbican is a brief walk from the City of London) and some extensive product testing from the artists. As Austen says: "When artists are given stuff like this they think 'how can I   break it? How can I do things wrong?' " But the HP in the corner of his studio is still working.Austen says that the main attraction to working digitally is speed. He says that he has to stop himself from becoming too fussy, but he can manipulate the prints much quicker than he can using traditional methods."On the one hand you can print out as many as you like and they are cheap," says Austen. "But that's offset by the fact that they are almost unsaleable."The other main problem is that they are not as stable as other methods of printing. They don't last as long. But "I think a lot of artists are interested in making longer editions that can be spread around and owned by the many". In the case of ArtFutures, Austen's prints will be given away. His fee comes from Hewlett-Packard.Although digital technology allows digital works to be produced in vast quantities, not all digital artists are using computers to produce unlimited editions of their work.Penelope Wakeham (penelopewakeham.com), a Winchester-based painter, has been using computer technology for years. However, her prints are unique and cannot be reproduced exactly.Wakeham paints not with a brush and canvas but with a mouse and a computer screen - usually using a package such as PhotoShop. She prints out her paintings in the usual way, but that is where any similarity with David Austen ceases.Because next she fixes the ink with a transparent medium (eg varnish), allows the medium to dry, and peels off the paper leaving a thin,   brittle sheet of ink and medium. Wakeham then pastes the sheet on to a canvas or board. Each painting usually takes three or four layers of ink. This she says gives her paintings the kind of depth we see on a computer screen but never on a printed copy."Using digital technology to produce images that look like photographs, drawings or paintings is just reinventing the wheel," says Wakeham. "The computer must have its own means of expression."In my work, I endeavour to take something of the   screen - be that computer monitor, cinema screen or television and paint with it. I want to take the image, saturated with light and give it physicality and texture."My work is digital and unique. Each piece is a one off unrepeatable work created using a computer as the tool by which pigment is distributed."Other artists are embracing digital technology in novel ways. Former Turner Prize nominee Mark Wallinger has used digital technology to produce a 3-D text-based work. Credo is    currently on show at Tate Liverpool. It includes two passages from the New Testament and requires the use of special glasses. After the show it will then be reproduced in a limited edition set and distributed on CD. While Tomoko Takahashi, more recently shortlisted for the Turner, has already producedWord Perhect, a web-based work that examines the effect that word processors have on language.But although a number of professional artists are taking   to the computer, it is in the colleges where it they are most common. Trudy Stephenson is a promoter of artists still at college.She represents artists like Anthony Gross, who is currently studying for an MA at Goldsmiths and who makes wall sized computer generated prints that evoke games technology."Artist are always interested in new technology," says Stephenson. "And you don't have to be a whizz at computers. I think that you can sometimes produce better work if you don't have any experience in that field because you see thing in a totally new light."In March, Tate Britain will host its first exhibition of internet art. The exhibition will follow high-profile shows in the US at the Whitney Museum in New York and Walker Centre in Minneapolis. Each work will celebrate the use of new technology. But the work of Austen, Wakeham and Gross proves that digital works are not that easy to tell from the non-digital.Next time you see a work of contemporary painting or sculpture or photography, ask yourself this question: Just what role has a computer played in producing that particular work of art?&#149;  ArtFutures is at the Barbican until December 3. Admission free.&#149; Credo is at the Tate Liverpool until December 23.&#149; Painting with Numbers is at Changes Studio, Sheridan House, Jewry Street, Winchester from December 4 until Christmas.
A premiership football club is setting up an online centre to bring more than 4,000 local people into contact with information technology. The project, led by Sunderland FC and based at its Stadium of Light, is particularly targeted at older unemployed men and disabled people and their carers.The project hopes to encourage people to attend classes by offering tours of the stadium and opportunities to meet the club's football players who are enthusiastic about the initiative, according to Sunderland's community manager, Bob Oats.Some 15,000 young people are already coming through the stadium's classrooms each year. A new opportunities fund (NOF) grant of &#163;259,736 will enable Sunderland to launch an adult learning programme in conjunction with the University of Sunderland.The NOF is this week awarding a total of more than &#163;6m to 46 schemes across the UK designed   to help people from "deprived and disadvantaged communities" to access information and communications technologies (ICT). The Stadium of Light is one of three projects in the north-east receiving a total of &#163;1.1m.A project based at the National Centre for Popular Music, in Sheffield, is receiving &#163;180,000 to train 5,000 local people in computing, numeracy, and literacy and linking these to media and creative skills.You're Worth IT is one of five schemes in London to receive   funding. Led by Harrow council, the project is being awarded &#163;485,130 to deliver training across north-west London in partnership with seven organisations.Awards worth &#163;1.7m are also going to 10 schemes in the north-west; and nine in the south-west are receiving a total of almost &#163;1m. Rural isolated communities are targeted by a Cornish project which involves a roving van, complete with computer equipment and tutors, offering basic IT classes to far-flung fishing villages.Schemes in Scotland receive &#163;742,871; Wales &#163;425,624 and Northern Ireland &#163;313,658.Since the launch of its ITC grants programme in spring 1999, the NOF has awarded more than &#163;300m.Stephen Dunmore, NOF chief executive, says: "Learning these &#91;ICT&#93; specific skills brings not only knowledge vital for living in the 21st century but also the can-do confidence needed by so many disadvantaged communities."
The new media deal widens the scope for punters (eventually throughout the world) to have a bet through their digital television sets.What is termed the interactive facility on such sets enables viewers, at the touch of a button from a handset, to access the internet and find the sites of bookmakers offering fixed odds or a pool betting   medium such as the Tote.As well as the terrestrial television channel screening racing on certain days - as at the moment - there will be a dedicated racing channel with a wall-to-wall service every day.The simple mechanics of placing an interactive bet are that, having found the required online outlet, the would-be punter registers his name and address and opens a "deposit account"   with the bookmaker against a credit card.There is no limit to the amount of the deposit. However, similar to the normal betting procedure, there is a likely to be a limit to the amount of money staked.Any losses are automatically deducted from the original deposit while winnings are credited.As with a bank, the customer can withdraw   money from the deposit as and when required.The natural safeguard of the system is that no one under age can bet because they do not have a credit card.Eventually, it is estimated that there will be 20 million homes in this country with either digital televisions or the internet facility, although the figure at the moment is nearer six million.
Oftel yesterday announced an investigation into the pricing of British Telecom's unmetered internet access, invoking for the first time the powers it won under the 1998 Competition Act.The investigation centres on two new packages which BT had lined up for launch at the end of this week. Oftel's inquiry will focus on whether the packages are anti-competitive. The regulator has the power to fine BT up to 10% of its annual turnover.The packages are BT Surf Together and BT Talk &amp; Surf Together. The first offers unlimited weekend and evening internet calls for &#163;14.99 a month while the second also bundles in unlimited weekend and evening local voice calls for &#163;19.99. The second package had already been lifted from &#163;17.99 a month following discussions between BT and Oftel.The watchdog said it welcomed lower prices but needed to ensure that BT was not undermining competition. Director general David Edmonds, it noted, suspected that BT was subsidising its unmetered internet access by the voice call element of the packages.BT chief executive Sir Peter Bonfield said: "We strongly resist the suggestion that we are acting anti-competitively. All we are trying to do it give our customers value for money."A BT spokeswoman said that the company was bemused by Oftel's decision to investigate. "We believe this is the kind of package that consumers, the government and Oftel have been telling us they want. They have known about this pricing since October and known of our intent for longer than that."She said that the company intended to push ahead with the launch on Friday. The investigation marks a new low in relations between BT and the watchdog. Mr Edmonds said last week that dealing with the monopoly was akin to trench warfare.Oftel yesterday published the procedure to decide how space in the most popular BT exchanges will be allocated to rival suppliers when its local network is opened for competition next year.Competing operators will be asked to list the exchanges in which they wish to install equipment in order of priority. The higher a named exchange is on the operator's list, the more likely it will be to gain entry.BT meanwhile signalled its intent to press ahead with the &#163;5bn flotation of its directories and e-commerce business Yell when it named the chief financial officer who will lead the company to market. John Davis is joining Yell from internet portal business Yahoo! Europe where he was group financial officer.The partial flotation of Yell will be the first stage of a broad restructuring of BT designed to restore investor confidence and reduce debts of &#163;30bn.The appointment of Mr Davis suggests that BT is undaunted by the volatility of the markets and, more particularly, the sharp change in sentiment toward internet-related new issues. The company is aiming at flotation before the end of March.The share price closed 9.5p higher yesterday at 660p but are still lower than the 749p on the day the restructuring was announced. At the beginning of the year, BT shares were worth &#163;15.13.
More than half of Britain's adult population will be using the internet regularly within six months, according to a report released today.The report, Embracing Technology, produced by online bank Egg and research company Mori, says that around 15m people now have internet access at home and forecasts this will increase to 23m by mid-2001. "We are on the verge of a fundamental shift in attitude to technology and the way that it affects life in the UK," said Egg chief executive Mike Harris."By mid-2001 more than 23m people in the UK will be online. Nearly one in three say they would vote via the internet in the next general election."While currently only 7% of the population depend on technology for buying goods and only 8% for banking, Mori's findings show this is set to change.In the next four to five years about 12m (30%) say they would feel comfortable banking on the net and a similar number can envisage themselves buying a mortgage or insurance online.People's dependence on new technology products is also growing. The report says 14m people believe they cannot live without their mobile phone, 28% feel they are dependent on new technology for keeping in touch with people and gathering information.Within four to five years about 10m people will depend on new technology for shopping and 14m for banking.Some 53% of those surveyed said they were dependent on their PCs.And although 60% of users say they are not dependent on the internet, 55% not dependent on digital TV and 53% are not hooked on email, this could change quickly.Robert Worcester, chairman of Mori said: "Once we've acquired the mobile or the digital TV, and become comfortable with them, we find that we end up using them for all sorts of extra useful things that we didn't originally anticipate. And over time this greater breadth of use leads to dependency."There are restrictions, though. The report says that new technology is central to British life, but there are still 29m adults who do not use a PC and 9m say they never will. Nearly 18m people have a PC or laptop for personal use, but as many as 61% of them use it just for word processing.But, according to Mr Harris, the future is looking good for internet companies.On average, internet users spend nearly four hours a week accessing the internet at home.The report, which surveyed over 2,000 people around the country, will be updated every year to keep track of the changing trends, Mr Harris said.
Microsoft yesterday accused the US government and a senior judge of misunderstanding the law in the latest round of the legal battle for its survival.In a filing to the US court of appeals, the Seattle-based company argued that it had not broken any anti-monopoly laws, in spite of a ruling by a US district court to the contrary. The company rejected the entire basis of last year's ruling that it had abused its monopoly position by stifling competition.The 150-page brief states: "The entire proceeding was infected with error. Revealing a profound misunderstanding of the anti-trust laws, the district court condemned Microsoft's competitive response to the growth of the internet."The US government and 19 US states which brought the case had successfully argued that Microsoft abused its stranglehold over the software industry by preventing competition from newcomers such as Netscape.Microsoft accused the government and the lower court of trying to create new law by failing to recognise the dynamics of a successful business.It then criticised the handling of the case by Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson, who agreed with most of the government's arguments."The district judge's violations of the code of conduct are emblematic of the manner in which he conducted the entire case - employing improper procedures and changing the rules of the game, always to Microsoft's detriment," said the company.Few analysts were surprised at Microsoft's combative approach yesterday. Judge Jackson himself had castigated the company and senior executives for their failure during the trial hearings to accept any wrongdoing.The government is expected to file its response in January with the appeals court not expected to reach a decision until early summer. The case could then be taken to the US supreme court.
British songwriters will today launch a campaign against free down-loadable music on the internet, warning that it threatens a British industry worth more than &#163;3.2bn.Musicians used to worry about punters with concealed tape recorders under their Afghan coats selling bootleg tapes of concerts. But the internet has created a staggering change in the scale of copyright violation. Worldwide sales lost, because the music can be accessed free, have recently been estimated at &#163;2bn a year.This week has been declared Music Awareness Week. The "respect the value of music" campaign has the backing of Sir Paul McCartney, and Elton John, who are among the many high profile music industry figures whose recordings have been targeted.The British musicians are following the lead of their American peers, where a dozen expensive law suits are rumbling through the courts. In July Madonna's new album appeared on the net four months before the planned release.Frances Lowe, director general of British Music Rights, which is organising the campaign, said: "The impact of new technology is a significant issue for everyone who cares about the future of music and the livelihood of those creating the music we enjoy."David Arnold, award winning composer of film scores including Independence Day, Godzilla, the most recent James Bond films and the remake of the 1970s classic Shaft - all to be found at free sites - put it more bluntly: "It's a little bit crap, actually."Andy Heath, an independent music publisher, director of the Beggar's Banquet publishing group, and a member of the government's music industry forum, said: "People's work, people's livelihood, people's creativity is being stolen. It is a fundamentally unjust position, and that is all there is to it."He said one of the problems in raising consciousness of the issue was the self evident wealth of some of the victims."Frankly it's hard to feel a stab of guilt over a Madonna track. Elton John really doesn't need to get any richer, and it's very difficult for anyone to sincerely shed a tear over Universal or Warners."So at the moment there's quite a cuddly feeling about it all, that this is freeing music from the clutches of huge powerful corporations. But I think we are seeing the benevolent start of something that will become quite pernicious."He added: "If it is not possible for all the smaller musicians and composers, living pretty ordinary lives, to earn any kind of a living from music, then they will stop making music. Without the small ones the big ones, the stars, are never going to pop up out of the system."The net is a fantastic thing, it has returned power to the people and to the young musicians who can bypass the whole studio system and put their work straight up there."Napster is a brilliant tool, I've used it myself, and I have no problem with music being free to the consumer - but there has to be a way of getting something back to the people who make that music."Napster, the biggest and most famous of the free music sites, has struck an out of court deal in the last few weeks, to pay royalties to the record company BMG, the music side of the German media giant Bertelsmann.Bertelsmann was one of several companies with lawsuits pending against Napster. The rock group Metallica almost got an injunction last summer to shut down Napster, but the case only proved that the spread of free music is now unstoppable: within days half a dozen sites had sprung up offering a similar service.Mr Heath said there was still time for musicians to get a grip on the phenomenon, probably through punters paying small monthly license fees to access the sites - such as Napster is now proposing - with royalties distributed by the Performing Rights Society."The only protection for the music industry now is that the quality of the digital sound you download is still not quite as good as buying a commercial recording. It's not brilliant if it's free, it would be crap if you have to pay for it. But the technology is evolving so fast that difference is going to disappear."Mr Arnold, who has also worked with composers such as kd lang, has had the experience of his work in progress turning up on the net. "On Godzilla, we were booked in for 10 days' recording, and on day five the work we'd done so far was up there. When we did Randall And Hopkirk Deceased the theme was up the day after we'd finished the master: there were only three people who could have had access to it, including me. It's a very weird feeling. There's stuff of mine out there that I haven't even got."In general, however, he is trying to combat the idea that free music is a victimless crime.He added: "If I set up a stall selling bananas at 40p, and somebody sets up beside me giving bananas away, how many people are going to buy my bananas? And why would I keep on trying to sell bananas?"Cheap and easy listening&#149; "Music" has replaced "sex" as the most entered word on the internet's biggest search engines.&#149; At the heart of this change is a technology, MP3, and a service, Napster.&#149; MP3 is a computer file standard which allows music to be stored and transmitted over the internet without a dramatic loss of sound   quality. Napster is the free service which makes it easy for millions of users to swap those MP3 files between themselves.&#149; Napster was founded last year by a shy American teenager, Shawn Fanning.&#149; It now finds itself embroiled in lawsuits with the big record labels for breach of copyright while being courted by some, including Bertelsmann of Germany, because of its ingenious technology. Its user-friendly face has made downloading music simple, decentralised and hugely popular.Neil McIntoshRelated storiesNo real online music industry20 November: Music stars wake up to MP3Useful linksNapster.com
Old media companies spent much of last year having a mid-life crisis. Made to feel dull and grey, they willingly gave their name to younger, funkier, online rivals in a vaguely desperate attempt to look cool.Now, the morning after the internet party of the night before, many of these grey-beards are suddenly seeing their once-cocky adolescent partners in a whole new light. Why put up with all the whining and the blemishes when time, money and reputation now seem much more attractive?Few old media companies underline this new confidence in maturity as much as the Old Grey Lady. The New York Times and TheStreet.com, in a little-noticed sidebar to the news that a financial website was closing its UK operations and sacking 40 people in the US, announced that their joint newsroom was to be shuttered.The collapse of this 18-month-old experiment marks a new chapter in the development of online news operations. The partnership between the New York Times and TheStreet.com was one of the earliest efforts to amalgamate the best of the new and the old in the rush online. The newspaper wanted the pizzazz and speed of the newcomer, while the website craved more credibility.In stilted comments made at the time of the announcement, both companies said they had learned a lot from each other and had ended their relationship by mutual consent. The New York Times still has a 5.7% stake in TheStreet.com.Money was not the cause of the split, in spite of signs of retrenchment on both sides. Problems arose because of editorial rather than financial values: the New York Times felt it no longer needed to be told how to write fast business news for its online readers by an outfit that did not share its values or ideals.Bill Keller, the managing editor of the newspaper, says that the world now recognises that inventiveness and energy are no longer the province of the new. "This has definitely been a learning experience," he says of the joint newsroom, before adding: "It has underscored that we old media folk can actually do new media ourselves. We don't have to do it in partnership with a dot.com."The seven journalists of the joint newsroom who sat in the Wall Street offices of TheStreet.com were pulled in different directions by the two partners. Simply put, one wanted fast and furious news to use for investors, while the other wanted considered exclusives and analysis. Neither side was ultimately happy with what was produced.Executives at TheStreet.com had hoped to be able to work more closely with their colleagues at the NYT, but it was not to be.Research into the readership of both organisations could have highlighted the gulf between them. TheStreet.com provides waves of instant financial news and aggressive analysis in a format prized by market professionals and investors. Readers of the New York Times have more general but perhaps more sophisticated interests.Keller highlighted the gulf between the two when he compared the ambitions of TheStreet.com with the financial equivalent of a sweatshop. "TheStreet.com conceived of &#91;the joint venture&#93; as a boiler-room, while we conceived of it more as a newsroom."The newspaper intends to appoint two or three of the joint newsroom journalists to something it calls a continuous newsdesk, an eight-strong operation which files online stories. These journalists are all fully fledged members of NYT staff, unlike those in the joint newsroom. The continuous newsdesk, established 18 months ago, was also an experiment. Set up in the heart of the NYT's own newsroom, it was one that worked, however.The collapse of one of the earliest affairs between old and new media companies raises questions for other partnerships. Few, however, are showing any outward signs of such a culture clash.Indeed, just a few days before, FTMarketwatch.com, a joint venture between the Financial Times and Marketwatch, a US website, announced its intention to expand into Germany. Both the FT and CBS, the US television network, own significant stakes in Marketwatch, although the transatlantic ventures are managed separately.Other partnerships, notably that between the Washington Post and MSNBC.com, are sharing editorial rather than financial resources. The situation is fluid, with many media companies still toying with the go-it-alone versus the alliance route in the US. Larry Kramer, the chief executive of Marketwatch.com, says: "Everybody is trying to figure out how to get to where they want to be and how best to manage their business in a changing climate."For the New York Times, where they want to be for now is left alone to their own considerable resources.
Richard Desmond plans to axe four websites with the loss of 40 jobs as the first part of a ferocious attack on costs at Express Newspapers which he bought last week for &#163;125m.The new proprietor is unimpressed that Express websites have burned up &#163;8m and take up half a floor of the headquarter building but bring in only &#163;100,000 worth of advertising, a well-placed source said.Other staff are likely to go in circulation, marketing and distribution as departments from newspapers and magazines in his expanded empire are amalgamated."The Daily Express has eight people on syndications and yet OK! has only one person for a greater amount of work. It is inefficiencies such as these   that he wants to get rid of," said the source.And in moves which are likely to be unpopular internally and could endanger the position of journalists, Mr   Desmond wants publications such as the Daily Express, Daily Star and celebrity magazine OK! to cooperate on key stories."He is a great believer in 'cross fertilisation' and thinks when OK! gets a big celebrity interview there is no reason why all the others &#91;newspapers&#93; should not have a treatment of that."The future success of the Daily Express and others is to be built primarily through the promotion of showbusiness throughout the newspapers using OK! as the primary source. The weekly celebrity title is to be moved into the Blackfriars headquarters of the Express.The new proprietor is also planning to invest heavily, too. He wants to launch a Sunday version of the Daily Star and last night opened a heavy   marketing campaign for the Express with the first of a &#163;1m television advertising blitz.But Mr Desmond is aware he faces a serious challenge in trying restore the Express to anything like its former glory. The decision to buy the group has forced him to postpone plans to move for a stock market listing for Northern &amp; Shell, publisher of OK! and a other magazines.Mr Desmond appointed stockbroker Seymour Pierce in the summer to handle what he hoped would be a &#163;1bn float. But sources close to the company admitted this was on the back burner. "He &#91;Mr Desmond&#93; still wants to do that but he accepts that investors will want to see him make a success of his new titles."
Favourite sites?A company calledbalthaser.com- it's a flash design studio in America. There's a kind of pre-war style video about how the internet is coming alive and we must fight html. Another isDogDoo.comwhich will send "PooPoo packages of a size of your choice". It reminds me of coffee shops because they've got an Econo-poop, PooPoo Special and PooPoo Grande. The latter is 2lb of messy material from a 110lb dog, apparently.Last online purchase?Some flights up to Newcastle.Most recent technological faux pas?The most recent, and probably the most embarrassing, was a conference call with some colleagues and another lady in the US. At the end, we thought one of the three of us had hit the off button when she put the phone down. We carried on the discussion, which was extremely complimentary, and then realised it was being recorded.Main news sources on the web?I use three on a regular basis. BBC news to get a view of what's going on in the UK. I use theft.comdigest to get very focused news on media, finance or IT. And I use the Revolution daily update to find out what's going on in the industry.Most persistent spam emailer?Somebody who offers to take on county court judgments in the US. I keep getting these court judgments on people in Alabama. I've never even been to Alabama.Time spent on the web?Unfortunately, all day - and 95% of stuff I do on the web is to do with work.Next boo.com/clickmango?If you're an online retailer and you can't clearly differentiate yourself from a well known offline retailer with an online presence, then I think you've got a problem.Least useful site/s on web?Those sites that basically spend their time grouping affiliate buttons.Most useful site/s on web?It's probablystreetmap.co.uk. I go to meetings a lot and it's really useful to know where you're going.What screensaver do you use?None at present. They're quite entertaining for a while but I've had so many virus attacks I tend to use my PC for work.Most irritating thing about the web?The fact that it's so huge and you know that something is out there but you just can't find it. It really is needle-in-a-haystack stuff.Do you bother with old media?Oh yes. I listen to John Humphrys in the morning and sometimes you just want to read a paper.&#149;  Gary Morrison is joint managing director ofwebrewards.co uk.
The dramatic irony is too rich, even for the scriptwriters of the over-the-top dot.com soap Attachments: while the need for quality interactive content has never been so pressing, the companies that are producing the sticky stuff - the e-content and commerce producers - are being abandoned en masse by their financiers.Indeed, the much-maligned dot.com is rapidly becoming an endangered species. At the current rate - one closure a day, according towww.Webmergers.com; or 30 last month, 75% of which were Business to Consumer or e-commerce - analysts are predicting there will only be a handful left by this time next year, apart from monster brands, such as Yahoo and AOL and those owned by media giants.Last week, financial news site TheStreet.co.uk, which launched with £10.6m in the spring, was cut off by its American parent TheStreet.com because of "failing to meet profitablity timetables". Closure seemed the only option, despite the fact it was bringing in a respectable £200,000 a month and had closed syndication deals with AOL, Compuserve and Lycos, as well as having 80 advertisers.In addition,Dobedo, the teenage chat site, announced 23 staff cuts;Citykey, a proprietary WAP city guide application, had to call in the liquidators; and it was reported that upmarket gossip sitePeople News.comhad laid off staff and lost its chief executive.The previous week,Wowgo.com, the teenage girls' portal, was left high and dry by backers Unilever, Durlacher and Eureka after just six months of operations. Sponsorship coups with Capital Interactive, Sure deodorant and celebrity endorsement from popsicle Billie Piper were not enough to persuade the consortium that Wowgo.com had a future as an independent entity.This month's catalogue of dot woe also includesEbop, the trendy youth lifestyle site, which has laid off all its staff except for its founders;Ready2, the upmarket shopper's advice portal fronted by Daily Telegraph columnists Susannah Constantine and Trinny Woodall, are back down to three mugs and freeze-dried coffee from a peak of 40 at launch; and finally Switch2, the music, sport and   internet service launched by Tim Southwell (former editor of Loaded) and Adrain Pettett (founder of soccer title 90 Minutes), have been dropped by Edison Interactive because the "penetration of ADSL into the market is too slow".Since theBoo.comdebacle in May, it is true to say that there has been carnage. But Boo's very public fall was a black-and-white case of bad management, poor research and overspending. The same cannot be said of The Street.co.uk or Boxman, the CD retailer which closed down without warning this autumn. Many of the recent victims had perfectly sound long-term business models but were unable to bridge the gap between the first and second round of financing.Mike Murphy, MD of Ebop, claims that the company was eight weeks from breaking even when the liquidators were called in. Two unsuccessful attempts to float on AIM had not helped their market value. He says: "Our backers took the view that the net wasn't enough to sustain a business model such as ours &#91;which included a record label and a popular Italian TV show, which is now being sold off&#93;. In the past, people looked at the internet as a whole new business model when really it was just another delivery medium."On the day Murphy had to break the news to their staff, Ebop reported their highest-ever user figures. "It is very disheartening for entrepreneurs - we know we created good businesses in their own right," he says. The only thing to do is "batten down the hatches and wait for a sale". Flotations are now very out of fashion.Speak to any "serious" venture capitalist these days and he will tell you that the B2C model of sponsorship and advertising has been completely discredited. Those, like Ready2, who did not wake up and   smell the emergency-board-meeting-coffee and change their business models months ago, have had to suffer the consequences.Trinny Woodall might complain that the venture capitalists they approached for a further £7m funding, "preferred not to make a decision they could be fired for rather than take the risk", but the backers don't see it in such emotional terms."They have a  fiduciary duty to their clients. If they think they are throwing good money away after bad, that's their decision," says Peter Bradshaw, analyst from Merrill Lynch Associates, in their defence. He explains the phenomenon in unequivocal Darwinian terms: "What we are seeing is the end of the beginning. That was the pre-Cambrian growth phase and this is the great extinction phase. When it is all over, good companies will emerge, but only a handful of them, and that's been the real eye-opener for these dot.coms - it's a winners-take-all market. Only those who are number one or two in their particular market will survive."Far from thinking that the internet has been overhyped, most analysts believe we are underestimating the effect it will have on our lives. Online shopping has tripled in the last year (Internet Monitor BMRB figures show that consumers spent £2.5bn online compared with £860,000 last year) and mobile commerce and TV commerce is predicted to outstrip even internet forecasts.Ironically, this should be the time for a spurt of growth among content providers. The telcos, who have paid a painful £22bn for their UK 3G licences, are looking for compelling applications, services and commerce partners to justify their expenditure. Without the likes of Wowgo, how is Nokia going to persuade teenage girls to buy their new generation of phones?Without cool broadband entertainment and short-film sites such as Pseudo, Den or Dreamworks SKG-backed Pop.com - victims of the US's recent dot.com "inverse hysteria" - how are the broadband providers ever going to make ADSL attractive to the customer, offering them something they can't get on the TV?Where will the new generation of dot.com service providers come from if there is no funding? Venture capital matchmaking events, which   were once buzzing with ambitious young entrepreneurs wanting to change the world, are now focused on pure infrastructure plays and dull enabling technologies.Jerome Moll, chairman of tornado-insider.com and CEO of internet incubator GorillaPark, which specialises in early stage start-ups, claims it is "now more difficult than it was 10 years ago to raise money for a dot.com. Venture capitalists are running scared from B2Cs."Even ivory-tower media companies such as News Networks, Emap Online, Associated Newspapers and UNM have been affected by the dot rot, and are dumping their ailing sites and modifying their new-media strategies in order to avert future embarrassment. Only last week, United axed uTravel, their leisure destination site. Andrew Nugee, head of Xilerate, said at the time, "We are not afraid to act decisively when it's clear that long-term success is not within our grasp. Our strategic emphasis is now to develop our considerable B2B assets."New economists predict that the investment market will pick up again in six months. Can we then expect a new breed of leaner, meaner dot.com start-ups - if only for our further amusement? "Unlikely - unless they have seriously divergent business models," says Merrill Lynch's Peter Bradshaw. "The AOLs and Yahoos are developing very quickly and have all the use of the bright-brains fallout from the dot.coms. In a few years, it will be unlikely that anyone will challenge them. Also, don't forget that offline brands are beginning to ramp up online and buy up 'shell' B2Cs very   cheaply." Despite these negative forecasts, the wireless market is already throwing up some interesting hybrids, such as Cheeky Monkey, which began as a WAP competitions site and has now developed into a direct marketing medium, gaining revenues from SMS share as well as B2B; and iBalls, a video-messaging station service launching next year which plans to expand into shorthand dotTV broadcasting and dotShop retail.And despite last week's doom-mongering, PeopleNews is pleased to report that they are "getting in shape" for the new year (the staff cuts were no more than a winter detox) and are in fact "hiring aggressively". It will be interesting to see who makes it to New Year 2002 for the annual Dot.com Staying Alive party.
Steve Levine first realised something Very Strange Indeed was happening at 3.20pm on Thursday November 9. That     was when he picked up the phone to be told by Stephen Budd, his manager: "You've got an impostor."Levine, one of Britain's most successful record producers (he counts Culture Club, The Beach Boys and The Honeyz among his credits) didn't take it too seriously at first. "We actually had a laugh about it," he says. "It was only when I went back to work that the consequences began to sink in. That was when it got scary."At that stage, he knew only a few facts: a man, passing himself off as Steve Levine, had negotiated a production deal with a would-be pop star in America. It had all gone sour and the pop star's lawyers had taken up the cudgels on their client's behalf. They had tracked down (the real) Levine's manager in England. Hence that fateful phone call.That Thursday night was to be the first of several sleepless ones for Levine. After spending 14 hours on the phone to the  States, a fuller picture had emerged. "The guy had been wreaking havoc in my name," says Levine. "It turned out he'd been introducing himself to several     people in the business over there and trying to do deals with them. I'm almost certain he got money out of them. It seems     he's left a trail of very important, very pissed off people behind him, who now think Steve Levine is a bullshitter and a     fraud. He's in danger of destroying my career, my reputation: that's everything I've worked for over the past 25 years."Levine isn't exaggerating: if you're a record producer, your reputation is your most valuable asset. Big money deals are     often signed on the basis of a producer's name alone. Levine's current project, for example, a young male duo called     Hush, only came his way after someone recommended him to the boys' parents. They were impressed by Levine's     reputation: he was a man they could trust. It's this reputation that the fake Levine has been exploiting: the worry now is that he may have destroyed it.Levine has the dubious distinction of being the first known victim of the newest form of cybercrime: identity snatching. It     is a cunning and insidious variation on cyber squatting: unscrupulous net "entrepreneurs" buy the domain rights to     famous people's names and then exploit them for financial gain. (Zoë Ball is a classic example: last year cyber squatters     set up a website with mocked-up pornographic pictures of her on it.)But identity snatching is more sinister and more sophisticated than mere cyber squatting: the fraudsters aren't just     taking their victims' names and images, they're stealing their entire personalities and careers. And people like Levine are     particularly susceptible. This is because while their names and achievements may be well known within certain circles,     their faces are not. Which means it's much easier for the fraudsters to get away with it.Levine is in no doubt that his impostor used the web as the basis of his deceit: "My entire CV and career details were on     three different websites," he says. "All the bloke had to do was to type my name into a search engine, and he had it all     there in front of him: everything he needed to know. There are things he's told people that he can only have learned from     my details on the web."(The horse may have bolted but none the less, Levine has shut the stable door: he's removed his personal details from     his own website,www.stevelevine.co.uk, and replaced them with a contact address -info@record-producers.com- and     his picture.)What should worry well-known - but not famous - professionals everywhere, is the ease with which this scam was     perpetrated; and the potentially catastrophic fallout it could entail."All I can do now is try and limit some of the damage he's caused, but it's going to be difficult," says a tired looking     Levine. "The music business, like most creative industries, runs on gossip: if one person out there is bad-mouthing me,     and saying 'Don't touch Levine with a bargepole', then word soon gets round. Rumours are very powerful things,     unfortunately."Levine, however, is fighting back, using the only weapons he has: words. "I'm hoping this article will start tilting the     balance back in my favour," he says. "My impostor has been using cyberspace to get what he wants but I'm banking on     good old- fashioned printed words to redress the balance."Defiant he may be, then, but Levine is also a little frightened: it is psychologically unsettling, to say the least, to know     that someone has stolen your persona.      And he is also concerned about practical issues. His legal bills are mounting up. Frustratingly, he knows the money     could well turn out to be wasted. "There's no guarantee that they'll catch this guy, and even if they do, it may be too late,     in terms of the damage he's already done."Only one thing, he says, could cure the frustrating powerlessness he now feels. He would love to come face to face with     his cyber alter ego on a dark night. "Not very constructive I know: but it would make me feel a whole lot better."
With stricken dotcoms falling fast it's hard to resist a trace of schadenfreude at the sight of Silicon Valley twentysomethings lamenting premature midlife crises and US start-ups stampeding to remove the '.com' from their names. Only the most unscrupulous company promoter will mourn the end of 'cyperbole' - but it would be equally dangerous to lurch to the opposite extreme and conclude that the internet show is over and it's back to business as before.'The market crash was very cathartic,' says Don Tapscott, internet observer and co-author of  Digital Capital , one of the best attempts so far to get under the froth to establish what's really happening to business on the web. 'It ended the period when everyone thought it was about websites, dotcoms, IPOs and off to the races. The real issue is how it changes business models in the commanding heights of the economy.'For that, look no further than the music industry, the example with which the obliging book opens. The force of the internet, say the authors, is that it fundamentally transforms the economics of organisations. By lowering transaction costs - the costs of searching for information, drawing up contracts and coordinating activities - the internet makes it feasible to do things outside the company that it previously made more sense to do inside.This potentially means the end not just of vertically integrated companies (imagine that, just a generation ago, Unilever owned oil palm plantations and ships to carry the raw materials to its factories), but of conventionally integrated companies of any sort.In the past it was most cost-effective to carry out the expensive interlinked activities of finding music acts and recording them, doing deals and arranging manufacture and distribution within a large corpora tion - hence the domination of giants such as Time-Warner, EMI and Bertelsmann.But the internet has pulled the whole value chain apart. Digitalisation and the peer-to-peer MP3 standard mean that manufacturing and distribution costs drop to nothing - indeed the latter is carried out by consumers themselves. By the same token, musicians don't need the record companies, either, since they can distribute their music in the form they choose from their own websites.A new business model emerges in which, for example, a band uses free distribution on the web to sell tickets for a concert tour.Or take Napster, the MP3 site being sued for copyright infringement, which has now done a deal with Bertelsmann that will allow the former to distribute singles on low-cost subscription while retaining control of its copyright for use in other forms.Or look at the traditional business of stockbroking. It consists of market data and analysis, news and views, advice and discussion groups as well as the transaction of buying or selling shares. Tapscott explains: 'The internet allows us to break all that up into its constituent parts, reaggregate it on the web, brand it and you have businesses like E*Trade and Schwab which have taken away one-third of a whole industry's revenue.'The strength of  Digital Capital is that it has many examples like this. Based originally on a company-funded research programme looking into the business implications of online communities, it changed its emphasis as the internet took off to shifting coalitions of companies forming 'e-business communities'.These finally crystallised into business webs, or 'b-webs', which Tapscott characterises as the new model of organisation for the internet age - 'the generic vessel into which all companies fall, in the   same way as "corporation" was the catch-all term in the industrial age'.The classic b-web is Cisco Systems, the internet router manufacturer with 32,000 employees and 40 plants. Just 17,000 members of staff and three plants actually belong to the mother company. Cisco is the 'context provider' that orchestrates the 'content' provided by its manufacturing and other affiliates. Cisco also manages, largely through its e-commerce website, its relationships with its end-customers - the direct 'relationship capital' for lack of which the music industry is now being trashed by its customers just like a hotel room being trashed by a rock band.'The most important thing about what we call the new economy is that business-model innovation is the key to success,' says Tapscott. 'The beauty of it is that it applies to banks, chemical and mining companies as much as anyone else.'Witness Enron, an old-line US utility that has reinvented itself as a marketplace for energy, telecom bandwidth and much else besides. Tapscott believes that the process of taking apart old com panies and putting them together again on the internet has only just begun. His current research is into the implications for current business models of the mobile economy, in which almost everything that has power will be interconnected in what he calls the 'hypernet'. Although the floods of change may have receded a bit in the last few months, that's just a pause for breath, says Tapscott ominously.Further ahead is a programme investigating the effects of all this on governance and democracy, the last area of public life to move with the new technologies.Several nations, including the US and the UK, have signed up. Mobile, transnational economies call into question everything nations hold dear. 'Up till now we've had a broadcast democracy: "Hey, listen up". Now we have one-to-one communications and interactive technologies. It will change the way we do politics. You could have a citizens' brainstorm.'Truly, says Tapscott solemnly, we are only at the end of the beginning.
As night follows day, the hapless Christmas shopper will be met each year with a point blank shortage of the must-have consumable.This year, hype in full flow, it was Sony's turn to frustrate with the launch of its all-singing, all-dancing games console, PlayStation 2.Practically unobtainable unless a forward-thinking buyer had pre-ordered months in advance, the PSX2, as it has been dubbed by the marketing people, had managed to create its own black market within hours of going on sale.The internet, home to online auction sites, was the main culprit, with the entreprenuerial already posting their PSX2s for sale and receiving bids in excess of &#163;500 for the &#163;299 machine.Supply has been outstripped by demand as the console, which can play DVD movies   and surf the internet as well as play games, cannot be bought off the shelf.The rush to reserve the 165,000 consoles available has meant that every one arriving in the UK between now and Christmas is accounted for. Consumers paid &#163;25 to make a reservation.David Wilson, head of PR at Sony UK, said pre-ordering was introduced after factories in Japan hit problems manufacturing the microchips for   the console. In addition, the company underestimated the "truly staggering demand".With demand outstripping supply, a "grey market" has already emerged.Dozens of PSX2s were on offer to the highest bidder on auction internet sites yesterday. On the QXL site, eager buyers were bidding as much as five times the retail price for the console. One seller from Harrow, in north London, was prepared to ship the equipment anywhere in the world, if the buyer paid the shipping fee. On the ebay site, several consumers offered between &#163;500 and &#163;700 for the product.In HMV on London's Oxford Street yesterday, one young shopper said his friend had bought four reservations at &#163;25 each and sold each one at a 400% profit.However, customers clutching their pre-order paperwork formed an orderly queue.   Vince Gallagher, 32, placed his order in September after reading about the system months before in the PlayStation offical magazine. He took yesterday afternoon off work devote to his new toy.Phil Evans of the Consumers' Association said: "It may be that Sony are focusing on the US market. If supplies are being diverted to the States, that may well backfire on Sony. The real money is made later on the software."
Eminem and the members of Radiohead may have woken up in marginally better moods than usual today after the bad tempered rapper and caricature-like serious rockers collected awards last night for their websites.Eminem, notorious for appalling middle America's parents while he sells records to their teens, won the international artist category and Radiohead picked up the alternative crown in the inaugural British Online Music Awards (Omas).You would be forgiven at this point for wondering what the awards are and, more importantly, what they mean.The Omas were set up by Music Week magazine to highlight "creativity, innovation and technical wizardry" in a business better known for its lawsuits against anything of the sort.According to Steve Redmond, Music Week's publisher, there is a "new music industry developing", built on "bits, bytes and the internet". He claims the Omas are "the first truly 21st century music awards".Fittingly Napster, the internet music sharing (or pirating) software, won the online pioneer award.This is significant because Napster is one of the few true movers and shakers in the online music world. In fact it could only exist online. Instead of selling mail order CDs or advertising tour dates it bypassed the massive distribution networks of the multinational music industry, if only for a short time.The industry took Napster to court, unhappy that the promise of free music would eat into its profit margins. The alternative - that exposure to new artists and genres might tempt the listening public into buying more CDs - was never entertained. To avoid paying punitive damages, Napster sold out to the media giant Bertelsmann but its free spirit continues on many imitator P2P (peer to peer) sites.This is where the awards fall down. Arguably, a "new music industry" based on the net does not exist. True, there are individual operators, but by no means an industry in the conventional sense. If one is to flourish its chief executives must recognise that the net's strength is its ability to move information around the world quickly. That is all Napster did, the information just happened to be music.It will be a long journey. Radiohead and Eminem's web presence are both what surfers would call "cool sites" but not necessarily good music sites. They are, fundamentally, merely pieces of PR: from Radiohead's site we know, for example, that they are serious artists who share a common political ground with anti-capitalist protesters. That may make us want to click on the next link to buy their t-shirts and CDs.As often in the music business, innovation is left to come from the bottom up. Napster showed a way for consumers to use the net but the onus now switches to the producers. Dance producers can exchange samples and drums patterns using Napster-style sharing technology and - at the other end of the spectrum - Adam Burrows, guitarist with a Bristol-based band,  Big Joan, says that being on a small internet label, Sink and Stove Records, allows him to network with other musicians without, as he puts it, going all out to impress a "record company's toilet cleaner" .The net may change the way we create and listen to music. But if it does not, then the industry's "creativity, innovation and technical wizardry" online will be wasted.Related stories3 November: Napster competitors hope to clean upNapster wins new friendP2P - is it pirate to pirate?Useful linksRadioheadEminemOnline music awardsNapsterBertlesmannMP3.comSink and Stove Records
Today is America's Buy Nothing Day. An event that was started to poke pointed fun at consumerism is now being celebrated in more than 40 countries, embarrassing television networks and demonstrating the power of the internet as a political organising tool.The campaign was the brainchild of Kalle Lasn, the founder of a Vancouver-based magazine, Adbusters, "the journal of the mental environment", and author of Culture Jam, an exploration of consumerism, globalisation and advertising.The day, which encourages people not to bother shopping for what they do not really need, began in the Pacific north-west in 1993 and was taken up on the internet in 1995. Now it has expanded, from events in 30 countries last year to 45 this year.In America, it takes place on the day after Thanksgiving Day, traditionally the biggest shopping day in the calendar, while in Europe it is held on the last Saturday in November, which this year falls tomorrow."Every year it gets bigger," said Lasn yesterday. "A lot of it is word of mouth." He said that many events were now being organised by groups with no connection to Adbusters.In the best traditions of consumerism, the organisers had hoped to advertise the day on television. When they made their first attempt, last year, every major network found reasons why it could not run a commercial telling people not to buy anything.A CBS spokesman told Adbusters: "This commercial is in opposition to the current economic policy of the United States."Only CNN agreed to run the commercial after being told that a refusal would lead to an embarrassing story in the Wall Street Journal. This year the network agreed to run the ad, said Lasn, only to have an apparent change of heart."It was a very strange experience," he said. "When we first approached them they said 'no worries, no problems, there's plenty of time.' Then they told us all the spots were sold out."Finally a compromise has   been reached and the 30-second ad was due to be screened once only last night.The commercial's voice-over explains why the networks might not have been keen to run it alongside other advertisements: "The average North American consumes five times more than a Mexican, 10 times more than a Chinese person, and 30 times more than a person from India."We are the most voracious consumers in the world ... A world ... could die because of the way we North Americans live. Give it a rest. November 24 is Buy Nothing Day."But Lasn, an Estonian-born former documentary film-maker, said not everyone was impressed by the idea. "On radio talk-shows there are chamber of commerce types who can't believe what we're doing and they can be quite rambunctious. And people phone up and say 'if you don't like it in this country, then get out'."But he said that the majority of reactions had been positive, with many ad hoc groups being set up around the world, covering everything from small towns in Hungary to shopping centres in Japan.Last year in New York, thousands of activists took over Times Square for a dance party, while other protesters targeted what is said to be the world's longest shopping avenue in Panama City.This year, Adbusters' campaigns manager, Tom Liacas, said yesterday, everything from "reclaim the streets" demonstrations to the exchange of free gifts is planned.He attributes the increase in interest to both the power of the internet and the effect of anti-globalisation protests in Seattle last year."Since Seattle, there's a much larger audience for this sort of thing," he said. "People have been adapting the day to their own cultures so we won't really know the scope of what has been done until afterwards."Useful linksAdbusters campaignsBritish Buy Nothing DayInternational Buy Nothing DayJapan Buy Nothing DayNew Zealand Buy Nothing DayActive Consumers - DenmarkUndercurrentsBillboard LiberationNoam Chomsky archiveUrban75Consumers InternationalEnviroweb
Racism and anti-semitism has proliferated on the internet, spawning more than 2,100 websites, the European Union's racism monitoring unit reported yesterday.Most of the sites are based in the US, but in Germany alone, the internal security service recorded the existence of 300 registered hate websites last year, up from 200 in 1998."What was proscribed, undercover, shameful and liable to prosecution in the past is today readily available and viewable on the net," the European monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia said in its annual report."Movements which were in decline in both Europe and the US have received a new lease of life thanks to the sites they have created."Increases in violent racially motivated incidents were reported last year in France, Germany and Sweden, but differing definitions and statistical methods made EU-wide comparisons difficult, it said.In Britain, racist incidents recorded by police rose by 66% per cent to 23,05. This was believed to be a result of better recording and the wider definition applied to such incidents after the inquiry into the 1993 murder of Stephen Lawrence in London.The report also said that racism in police and security forces was a problem across the continent. In Belgium, for example, one in nine violent incidents was blamed on police and gendarmes.Beate Winkler, the centre's director, pointed to worrying discrepancies between official and unofficial reporting of racist violence: the Netherlands figure was 200 incidents for 1999, but the Anne Frank Foundation estimated that the true number ranged between 800 and 8,000.The EU centre had an uncomfortable few months this year because it is situated in the Austrian capital, Vienna, the target of unprecedented sanctions by all 14 other member states after J&ouml;rg Haider's anti-immigrant Freedom Party entered government after doing well in national elections.In the 1999 election campaign in Austria "a climate of fear and intolerance was ... stoked up against the immigrant and Jewish community," the report said.Jean Kahn, director of the Vienna centre, said he wanted anti-racism measures agreed in the EU's Amsterdam treaty - which was ratified in 1997 - fully implemented in all member states. And the chairman of the European parliament's citizens' rights committee, Graham Watson, argued that clear rules had to be set governing when a member state could be suspended for failing to meet accepted standards on democracy and human rights.Some governments want this written clearly into the treaty of Nice, due to be drawn up at the EU summit on the Cte d'Azur next month.Related special reportSpecial report: Free speech on the netRelated articlesThe issue explained: regulating the netUseful linksEuropean commission against racismJuriscomInternational League against Racism and Anti-SemitismSimon Wiesenthal centreHatewatchCampaign Against Censorship of the Internet in BritainNetFreedomGuardian Unlimited is not responsible for the content of external websites.
A flamboyant e-business pioneer, once ranked among the richest young millionaires in Britain, has seen his encryption technologies company fold with more than &#163;1m of debts after a series of allegedly broken promises to creditors.Joseph de Saram, 28, who last year shared 18th place on the Sunday Times' young rich list with David and Victoria Beckham, founded Rhodium in 1995 after just two years as a graduate IT consultant. But this week more than five suppliers have secured the company's liquidation after it failed to pay for a number of hardware orders.Proceedings were first brought against the Sheffield-based firm by hardware sup pliers Info Techtronic, which is owed &#163;205,000 and had received a number of "bouncing" cheques and promises of payment from Rhodium that were not kept.A spokesman for the Leeds District Registry Court confirmed that Rhodium, which employed seven staff, had been compulsorily wound up. Next week a liquidator would be appointed and Mr de Saram, who is thought to be visiting friends in Sri Lanka, will be interviewed over the possible ways of retrieving creditors' money.Mr de Saram, who claims via the Rhodium website to be worth "in excess of $200m", reportedly gave up his childhood ambition to become a neurosurgeon in order to "stretch his mind" by starting his own business.In March he told the Sunday Times that he was sceptical about the future of some internet firms."They lack substance," he said. "They don't have a balance sheet and their valuations are artificially high, based on hype."There's a lot of euphoria about now. I can see a Wall Street crash or South Sea Bubble burst."Rhodium will now join CitiKey, a wireless provider of restaurant and city guides, which has also been put into liquidation after burn rates reached an estimated $1m a month.About 90 workers across Europe are expected to lose their jobs.CitiKey filed for bankruptcy proceedings on Monday after plans to restructure the firm failed to get the backing of a two-thirds majority of the board.The founders of the company, which was set up in 1998, were among those who rejected financial proposals from venture capitalist. It is thought that Atlas Venture and Crescendo Ventures had wanted to dilute some non-venture-capitalist shareholdings by up to a factor of ten.
Chaos reignsTomorrow sees the launch of PlayStation 2 in the UK with many stores opening their doors at midnight tonight. However, the lack of non-allocated stock means it is unlikely that the chaotic US   launch queues will be experienced here. Despite the pre-order scheme not going entirely smoothly, with customer confusion and some cutbacks in stock, anyone who has ordered a machine and has been contacted by Sony will be able to collect it tomorrow. The company intends to fulfil the other pre-ordered systems by Christmas but it could still be touch and go. Customers are advised to speak to their retailer.Hard drivingGetting bored with synchronising your agenda and fiddling with your address book? Then how about a bit of hard    driving? Infogrames are releasing V-Rally for Palm OS, which means it will run on Palms, Handsprings and other compatible devices. The game includes 40 tracks set in locations stretching from Indonesia to the UK and lets you choose from four rally cars to race. There is a small, but growing, market for PDA games and a free demo of V-Rally can be downloaded fromwww.palmtop.nl/palm/vrally.htmlBets are onDespite its geeky reputation, online gaming seems to be growing in popularity. Apparently the number of   female participants is rising, and with such consoles as the Dreamcast negating the need for expensive PCs, it is likely that playing games over LANs and the internet will become increasingly prevalent.Last week's i-6 event, held at Newbury Racecourse, was the biggest so far in the online gaming series, with competitors bringing their PCs from all over the UK for three days of Quake and Counterstrike.With most attendees so enthusiastic that they slept under their desks, it seems that Berkshire's pizza establishments are not the only ones keen for another event.Crowd controlTo soothe strained nerves this Christmas, the games website Flipside is opening a "male creche" at Lakeside Shopping Centre in Essex. Husbands and boyfriends will be able to play more than 40 games on the site while partners brave the retail hordes. The selection includes a mix of card and puzzle games, with prizes for winners. The creche runs from December 4-23.Empire's herding game Sheep (see review below) was also released last week with John Noakes reliving his favourite "Shep" anecdotes at the launch.
You were late into the search engine game. Does that mean first mover advantage doesn't exist?We started research that led to Google back in 1995. At the time, search engines were primitive - reusing basic technologies that were used to search newspaper articles in order to search the web. Our work focused on building search technologies for hypertext, so in some sense we were the first mover.Today, our index includes more than 1 billion web pages. We support 25 languages and Google can be used on a variety of wireless devices, handheld computers, and internet appliances. We handle more than 50 million searches per day. I think there is now a significant barrier to entry. I believe we are at a point analogous to the semiconductor industry 12 years ago.How will search engines look different in five years' time?In five years I hope they will be able to return answers, not just documents. Some companies have tried to do that today but they do not work very well, which is why Google still returns documents. In the future, Google will be your interface to all the world's knowledge - not just web pages.Is it possible for a search engine to make a profit and will there be a massive shake-out if they don't?The main obstacle to profitability is when the search engine does not have the best user experience and so it has to pay for users. Google does not pay for users and yet we grow very rapidly through word-of-mouth. Google's advertising and licensing businesses are showing strong growth and we expect to be profitable within one year. I believe there is an ongoing shakeout and many former search engines have now been bought or have diversified into other areas.What do you use Google for? Any tips?I use Google for all of my information needs. As far as tips, when trying to phrase a query think about how documents with the answer are likely to discuss the topic.What worries you about the direction the web is taking?Not enough attention is paid to the user experience, an area we pay close attention to. Many sites are more focused on glitz than on functionality.Has the fall in dot.com shares still got a way to go?Over the past several years there have been many short-term corrections such as the recent one and the one around March and April of this year. Nevertheless, the overall value of the internet sector has continued to grow on a long-term scale. I think that value will continue to move around within the sector but I do not think the pie as a whole will shrink.What are your favourite web sites (except Google) - for business and pleasure.I like Yahoo, Slashdot, shopper.com.What are your must-have gadgets?Honestly, my must-have gadgets are a paper notepad and a pen!
With the amount of attention the new Sony Playstation 2 has been receiving for most of this year, you could be forgiven for thinking it has been on sale for months. In fact, the successor to the best-selling games console ever goes on sale in Britain tomorrow, more than nine months after its launch in Japan.But unless you got your reservation in early, don't expect to lay your hands on one this side of Christmas. Because of massive demand in Japan and the US, and component droughts, Sony has rationed the number on sale. Only around 165,000 machines will be available initially, down from an original estimate of 200,000. Some people who pre-booked their machines will not get them before Christmas, says Sony.Its PR machine is deftly spinning, pointing out that the number of consoles going into homes is higher than for the original PlayStation. But the circumstances are different: there has never been a games machine so eagerly awaited. One million were sold in its   first weekend in Japan.Why? It helps being the successor to the PlayStation 1, which has snatched 60% of the world's games console market. It also helps that its technical specification eclipses anything else on the market. Sega's Dreamcast - which has seen a rise in sales because of Sony's supply problems - runs on a chip with a speed of 200MHz. It can draw 3 million polygons per second, this being a key indicator of a console's power, and consequently the quality of its graphics.The PlayStation 2 has a 300Mhz chip. But the biggest difference is in the number of polygons drawn in a second: a cool 75 million. So it can display a richer variety of colours, and smoother graphics. It can also play DVDs, and is expected to lie at the centre of any Sony attempts to create home networks of electronic equipment.But some gamers have criticised the quality of the first selection of PS2 games. Programmers are struggling with the complexities of producing good-looking graphics for it. At the heart of the problems is its "anti-aliasing" capabilities which   are supposed to smooth out graphics before they are displayed. On some titles, like Ridge Racer V from Namco, this feature has not worked well - particularly embarrassing for a console being sold on the power of its graphics.Sony is keen to play down these problems as early glitches, and promises supplies will flow more freely in the New Year. They may need to: Sony's launch is only the opening salvo in a fierce four-way battle for console supremacy.Already established is Sega's Dreamcast. There is also a new machine from gaming veteran Nintendo, the GameCube - due next year. And Microsoft is getting ready to enter the fray.Its Xbox, due to appear in the US towards the end of next year, will have a 733 MHz chip able to draw a staggering 150 million polygons a second. And it should launch with a healthy software library; Microsoft is making great efforts to make it simpler to write for.This will be the last Christmas where Sony has all the hype to itself.
New newsI use Yahoo as my ISP (internet service provider) because it's "free" and it donates some of the cost of the phone calls to Oxfam. My problem is that it does not provide a newsnet server for Usenet newsgroups. Can I set up a secondary ISP just for newsgroups? If so, how easy is it and can you recommend any particular ISPs, preferably also free, for this?Lindsay Jacksonl_c_jackson@yahoo.co.ukIt is a good idea to have at least two ISPs as the quality of service can vary. Details of how to set up extra ISPs were given in the previousStart Here. I don't know which free ISP offers the best Usenet service but Freeserve would be one place to start.You could also look at some of the public news servers to see if they offer the groups you want. Trywww.dmoz.org/Computers/Usenet/Public_News_Serversand on the Public News Server Web Ring (seewww.geocities.com/SoHo/Studios/9594/public.htm).At least one public server works in the UK: Taliesin. To set it up with Yahoo, run Internet Explorer, go to Tools|Accounts and select the News tab. Click the Add button, select News, then follow the wizard's prompts, entering taliesin.netcom.net.uk as the address.There are also numerous paid-for Usenet services (egwww.usenet-access.com) which are marketed on the huge number of newsgroups they carry, and the fact that they are not censored.DownloadsWhen I try to download media files, I sometimes get the option to save in a folder, which is what I want, but at other times it is decided by the site I am downloading from. This means that I cannot find the file, or have to access the internet if I do click on it. How can I save files where I want?Colin Piercecolin@zwemmer.comYou can usually save a file where you want by right-clicking on the link to the file and choosing Save Target As. This will let you decide what to call the file, and where to save it.If you think a file has downloaded but you are not sure where, you can try to find it using the Find Files dialogue ( Start | Find | Files or Folders ). Type in *.mpg (or whatever the extension is) and set the date to find only things downloaded that day. (If you know the filename, of course, you can search for that.)You may find the file in the Temporary Internet Files directory in Windows. Sort the directory by Size (by clicking the Size column label twice) and the biggest files will appear at the top. Then right-click on the file you want, hold down the mouse button, move it to your chosen directory, let go, and use the drop-down menu to copy it there.There are several good reasons for downloading files with a download manager instead. A program such asGetRightwill resume a download if you lose the connection (assuming the server supports resuming), download several files at the same time, and even download different sections of the same file at the same. Since GetRight is doing the downloading, you can always save files where you want.Other Windows managers include A HREF="http://www.reget.com" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;Reget,Go!ZillaandMass Downloader.Change menuHow can I edit the New menu presented by Explorer when I right-click either on the desktop or in an Explorer window? I have 28 options and I want to reduce these to about six.Grahame Stevensgeestevens@yahoo.co.ukThe New menu is very useful because it provides an easy way to create a new folder, a text file, or a file suitable for another registered program. However, if a lot of programs take advantage of this feature, the menu can become overlong.The obvious way to shorten it is to use the RegEdit program to edit the system's Registry, which holds the instructions telling Windows how to behave. It involves finding the ShellNew key for each program you want to remove and changing it. But, editing the Registry is hazardous and nobody will do it if there is an easy alternative.Fortunately there is. Microsoft offers a program called TweakUI for tweaking the user interface - it's one of the "power toys" - and I am reliably informed it will let you delete entries from the New menu. If you have Windows 95, you should be able to download a suitable version from Microsoft's web site (seewww.microsoft.com/windows95/downloads/contents/wutoys/w95pwrtoysset/default.asp). If you have Win  dows 98, it should be hidden on the CD-rom in the \tools\reskit\powertoy\folder. Just right-click on tweakui.inf and select Install to add it to your system.If you change your mind, TweakUI also lets you put entries back. It's just a matter of ticking the boxes you want.If you like tweaking Windows, there is also a much more powerful program called X-Setup, available free from Xteq atwww.xteq.com/main.html.Missing fileWhen I switch on my computer I get a message saying the system.ini file refers to a device file that no longer exists. I suspect this is a file from a game demo that may have been deleted rather than uninstalled. The instruction that comes up says the missing file is C:\KADEMO\VRSD.386 Is there any way I can cure this problem?Charles Lauderc.w.lauder@talk21.comWindows tries to load files it is told to load by the system.ini file and naturally complains if it can't find them. If you are sure you don't need the file - as with this leftover apparently from Star Trek: Klingon Academy Demo 1.0 - you can stop Windows from trying to load it by putting a semi-colon and a space (; ) at the start of the line that refers to the file. The simplest way to do this is to go to Start | Run and type sysedit to load the program that edits system files.Click on the pane labelled C:\WINDOWS\SYSTEM.INI to bring it to the top, and insert ; before C:\KADEMO\VRSD.386Finally, select File | Save to save the amended file, quit SysEdit, and restart your PC.The reason for "commenting out" lines in system.ini rather than simply deleting them is to make it easier to restore lines if necessary.OE problems(1) When I open my Inbox in Outlook Express, how do I get it to go straight to the new messages, rather than the top (and oldest) one on the list?(2) The address book used to appear on the left hand side when I opened Outlook Express under the folders options. I once closed it and it now no longer appears. How do I get it back?David SteedDavid.Steed@ukgateway.net(1) I have no idea. Maybe a reader can help...(2) Open Outlook Express, select View|Layout, and put a tick in the first box, which is labelled Contacts.
Latest modelA very special kind of inspiration must drive someone to recreate scenes from films or famous album covers out of Lego. Let's just be thankful    that those special people - in this case, some Japanese men - also put their creations on the web (seewww.geocities.co.jp/Hollywood/9060/english.html). Lego cinema scenes include The Matrix, Monty Python's Holy Grail and the entire Star Wars trilogy, while album covers include The Prodigy, Nirvana, Korn and the Beatle's Abbey Road.Pink poundThe spicy advertising campaign has already attracted attention toQueer rcompany, a new site for lesbians and gays   that plans to go after the pink pound. Along with lifestyle articles, city guides, event listings and online radio, Queercompany is offering travel information and packages, mortgages and loans, car hire and other services to a market worth an estimated &#163;10bn annually in disposable income.Fishing onlineOne million people apply for afishing licencein Britain every year, so the idea of completing the task online  will appeal to many. Better yet, if you know a fishing fanatic, the site is offering a special gift voucher that will entitle the recipient to an annual licence in April (since licences run from April to April).Aids marathonTwo years to the day after leaving Sydney, Australia, on a cycling marathon, Cass Gilbert, from Blandford Forum, Dorset, is back in the UK. His 20-country trip through jungles, deserts and mountains was in support of the Children With Aids Charity. Gilbert, who was backed by contributors including George Harrison, Ringo Starr, Nancy Sinatra, Mariella Frostrop and the Cameron Macintosh Foundation, raised &#163;23,700, nearly &#163;1 for every kilometer ridden. Add to the sum by clicking on a direct link onGilbert's website, which also has details and pictures from the trip, including a Himalayan ascent.So commercialThink you know your ads? Then try your hand at winning a Fortnum and Mason Christmas hamper by identifying the brand associated with a still from an ad campaign at XNC (Seewww.xnc.co.uk), a website that targets people in the advertising industry. Click on the Play the Game button and you'll have 30 seconds to match the still with a list of brand names. Answer correctly and you'll be fed another one until you guess wrong.Bright ideaThe UK is famous for inventors but they often have a hard time getting their inventions to market. Enter the internet: Yet2.com, a US-based global online marketplace for the exchange of intellectual property, has announced it will partner with UK invention marketing agency,Inventorlink Products Ltd. The two companies hope to provide lone inventors and small teams of innovators in the UK with a channel for introducing their inventions to global markets. They're touting a portable flood barrier at the moment - too bad someone hadn't snapped up that idea and rushed it to market a few weeks ago.Odd idolWith the tech world's attention focused on Las Vegas all last week as the visitors poured into Comdex, it's worth reminding people the city is not just an occasional geek haven but has its very own cultural icons. Topping the list is surely Liberace, who is immortalised in his very own Vegas museum. Put it on the list of attractions if you're going to Comdex next year, but in the meantime, pay a visit toBob's World of Liberace. Take a tour through his homes, buy a Liberace calendar or video, visit the archive of Liberace items, and view Liberace's Christmas card collection.New &amp; noted&#149;  Buy diamonds and custom jewellery online atwww.thediamondshop.co.uk&#149;  Pre-filtered cool content, atwww.seethru.co.uk&#149;  Computer graphics and comics atwww.coolbeansworld.comSix of the bestQuirky quotesMaths quotes serverhttp://math.furman.edu/~mwoodard/mqs/mquot.shtmlMark Twain's finestwww.twainquotes.comBeam me uphttp://w1.871.telia.com/~u87112797/stquotes.htmlKing of quirkinesswww.crosswinds.net/~tourette/fft.htmEat my shorts!www.angelfire.com/la/frettz/bartboard.htmlQuotes for cynicswww.anyman.com/gist.htm
If you have applied for a place in the London Marathon, the moment of truth is coming up - you will find out whether you are in or not at the start of December. From then till April you will enter a new world, one of long, chilly training runs and self-denial in the wine bar, one where what really counts in life is the merits of energy gels and knee supports. For marathon virgins, it can all seem a bit daunting - which is where the web can help.Would-be Antonio Pintos and Liz McColgans seeking online advice and support will find a crowded field, with half a dozen fast, well-maintained sites, lots of slow and useless ones and a few that are really weird - pretty much like the marathon itself. The official sitewww.london-marathon.co.ukhas a well-tested training programme for beginners, but is a bit thin in content so far. A slightly more inspiring place iswww.adidas.co.ukrunning , though if you are serious about using the web as a coaching aid, head forwww.halhigdon.com. orwww.jeff-galloway.comBoth offer a selection of schedules to suit all aspirations and talents. However, if your physique is more Mr Blobby than Maurice Greene, Vanessa Feltz rather than Kathy Freeman, go towww.waddleon.com. This is home to the Penguin, aka   Runner's World columnist John Bingham. His site champions the porky, the knock-kneed, the pigeon-toed and all those whose enthusiasm outsoars their running ability. It's both wacky and inspirational.These three, andwww.ontherun.comare US sites, which tend to be livelier and better maintained than UK ones, though the American bias diminishes their appeal. This is also true of the newsgroup rec.running, which produces some very entertaining rants and flame wars, but tends to cold-shoulder posters not based in the US.Wearing a British vest iswww.onrunning.comwhich with news, e-commerce, forums and advice contains plenty for the running-obsessed. On the down side, its speed makes it unlikely to survive beyond the heats.An essential site for the London build-up is operated by the magazine, Runner's World, atwww.runnersworld.co.uk- it contains an excellent online race diary. The US Runner's World site has all   the flaws and virtues of its compatriots, but is useful for its shoe reviews, which on the principle that anything happening in the US will shortly happen over here should be consulted for advance warning on any trainer turkeys.For those looking to for a local running club to give them help, company and motivation,www.runtrackdir.com/ukclubsis a good place to start searching.Most running clubs now have their own sites, although as they are infrequently updated and boast a design as racy as woodchip wallpaper, they tend to be useful only as a source of contacts.Atwww.serpentine.org.ukis a much more lavish effort that compares favourably with many commercial sites - its popularity can be gauged by the fact that it had 79,000 hits last month alone.Basically these are the home pages of the Hyde Park-based Serpentine Running Club but even non-Londoners will find it well worth bookmarking, since it boasts an excellent Beginner's Guide to Running, a treasury of articles by coaching legend Frank Horwill, a guide to London routes, a race planner and diary for races in the London area, and a London Marathon section.If you want to download a training log rather than just record distances and times in the traditional way in a dog-eared exercise book, one of the best is RunLog4Web (Seewww.pegasussoftware.com).Meanwhile, really keen runners, the sort whose trainers are the first thing to go    into the suitcase when packing for a trip abroad, should bookmark the strangely compulsivewww.runtheplanet.com, a runners' labour of love which offers descriptions of "where to run and walk in the cities of the whole world, told by locals and for you to use while you are away from home".Descriptions range from the blindingly obvious ("In London you can go to any of the larger parks. Battersea Park is one of them.") to some highly detailed and carefully thought-out routes, complete with distance and terrain.One feature of training for the London Marathon is the way it takes over your life. Rather than inflict your obsessive ruminations about weekly training mileage and the merits of sorbothane insoles on family, friends and colleagues, you should consider subscribing to an online mailing list.UKRunningat not only has an interesting selection of links to e-zines and e-commerce but will also invite you to subscribe to theUKRunning list, which has a membership of runners of all standards from tortoise to hare.Those who want more hardcore discussion of the London Marathon will find it onlondonmarathon-subscribe@egroups.com. These are easily the runner's best source of online information, encouragement, humour and genuine help, all in a format that doesn't get you sacked at work for browsing the web all day long.
Just when you thought domain name fever was dying down, a group of largely anonymous business people, academics and technical experts has changed the face of the net - and fuelled a huge row about how the internet is run.As reported in last week's Online, ICANN (the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers) spent most of last week debating the merits of 49 proposed new domain suffixes, to join .com, .net and .org.After four days of debate they picked a slightly bizarre list of seven new suffixes - the first major ones designated since the 1980s. They are .aero, .biz, .coop, .info, .museum, .name and .pro.Domain names with these new suffixes are expected to go on sale next spring -although how, and at what cost, a name like Guardian.biz will be sold now lies at the centre of a fierce debate.Although these details have yet to be worked out, there will still a frenzy of activity online on Friday as net users attempt to snap up a name that might make them instant fortunes in a few months.Domain name registrars have been saying for some   time that the existing three general-use, worldwide suffixes had become overcrowded, with most English-language words and popular phrases being snapped up in the internet boom.The .com suffix alone appends around two-thirds of the 30 million domain registrations worldwide.The new suffixes are intended to make it easier to classify a website by its name and open up new permutations of domain name and suffix, giving, in theory, more people   the chance to own a memorable, simple internet name.But existing domain name holders - and especially those guarding valuable trademarks - fear that speculators will try to snap up the new names and "cybersquat" names like, for instance, cocacola.biz. That could force the trademark owners to pay out millions to buy the names, or free the names through the courts.Having witnessed the scramble for new domain   names last week, lawyers for trademark owners in the US are now demanding that there is a "sunrise" period when businesses have the option to buy names relating to their trademarks before the new suffixes become available to the public.Meanwhile, there are also fears about the cost of buying the new names. The price of domain name registrations have fallen dramatically in the last year, with most now available for around &#163;30 or less, but it is feared that   restrictions placed on the new names will lead to higher costs.For instance, the .museum suffix is intended only for organisations which are connected with museums, and registrars may need to check on applications to make sure they are entitled to use the suffix. This is in contrast to existing registrations in .com, .net and .org, which can be handled automatically.Adding to the pricing fears, ICANN itself will not be issuing new names.   Registrars - including Network Solutions, which used to own the monopoly on issuing domain names - have paid ICANN &#163;30,000 each to become record keepers for the new names.They will be able to resell the domain names to consumers for whatever price they choose, potentially making millions in the process.One registrar, Delaware-based JVTeam, said it would introduce a sunrise period only if other registrars were also forced to do so by ICANN.Adding to the confusion, some registrars have - for some time - been taking pre-registrations for names which do not yet exist.As a result, one group certain to prosper from ICANN's deliberations last week will be the US lawyer community. Connie Ellerback, a partner with the Silicon Valley-based law firm Fenwick and West, told the Washington Post: "It's like different telephone companies giving out the same phone number for two people." She predicted there would be a wave of lawsuits for trademark infringement next year.New domains.aeroFor the aviation industry.bizFor businesses.coopFor cooperatives.infoGeneral use.museumFor museums.nameFor individuals.proFor professionals
Usability guru Jakob Nielsen became famous for highlighting the top 10 mistakes in web design, but it did not stop web designers from doing stupid things.Now he is taking a different tack: he is about to reveal his 222 guidelines for e-commerce sites. These will appear first on theNielsen Norman Group website, then in a book that will be published next year. Rather than paying Nielsen $10,000 or more per day to analyse their sites, web designers will be able to do it themselves.The publication of the guidelines kicks off the User Experience World Tour in London. Nielsen will be accompanied by his partner Don Norman (author of the best-selling Design of Everyday Things), Bruce "Tog" Tognazzini (Tog On Interface) and Brenda Laurel (Computers as Theatre). The group will lead seminars in 12 cities in eight countries, including next Thursday's all-day debate at the Royal Drury Lane Theatre in London.Nielsen is trying to make the world a happier place, one web page at a time. But isn't it depressing to see the same mistakes year after year, long after he's pointed them out?"It has been a long, hard struggle," he replies. "On the other hand, I must also say   there's been a change for the better among some of the big sites that somewhat follow my guidelines. For example, Amazon follows 72% of them, and even I would never claim people should do 100% of what I say, though 90% would probably be a good goal."Are usability problems made made worse by the fact that web use is exploding overseas, with the number of European users overtaking the US?"We run quite a lot of studies in different countries, and the findings are usually about the same, but stronger," he says. "We find local users can often overcome weaknesses in web design, but foreign users have a much more difficult time: any small problem is much more likely to trip them up. When you are accessing a site in a different language, the need for usability goes way up."We've just done a study where we asked 20 US users and 20 Danish users to shop at 20 e-commerce sites, and we're publishing a report next week."Was this where the idea for the world tour came from?"I generated the idea because I've been getting so much more email from people all over the world," he says. "Usability used to be a very small field, but it has grown immensely. We have a responsibility, as the leaders, the founders of this field, not to make the new people reinvent everything. There's no reason for them to make mistakes today that I made 10 years ago."Also, usability used to be a concern in the computer industry, but now I'd claim it covers everybody, and the geographical distribution is hugely bigger."Is usability research expanding to cover new devices? "That's another driving factor," he replies, "and one of the key things we'll be releasing in London is a field study of Wap &#91;Wireless application protocol&#93; phones. The basic conclusion is: It's deja vu all over again!"In many ways, it's equivalent to what we found when we did web studies in 1994.   And the web in 94 really was clueless: only dedicated people could handle it; but the next year we had Netscape and Amazon. I think it's going to be the same with the mobile internet. Today? No, unless you're really motivated. But it's going to be really big."One thing that was remarkable &#91;about the Wap research&#93; was that we asked users to do the same things at the beginning and at the end of the study. Normally people are incredibly much faster after a week. But with Wap, you never know what's going on, so you never really learn the system. It is really, really bad."At the end of the study, we asked if people were going to use Wap on their own and 70% said, 'I'm not going to use it any more'."There's a lot of talk about billions of people using Wap, but there's an important distinction between the number of things sold and the number of things used. People are still going to be buying mobile phones and from now on, they'll come with Wap, but   they will discover it's too painful and they will never use it. How many people use more than a third of the features of their phone? Wap will be among the two thirds that people don't use."My advice &#91;to companies&#93; is: forget about Wap. Don't waste your money. Instead, plan for the next generation, which is coming very soon."Are mobile phones are going to become more like palmtop computers?"I really believe in that very strongly. I'm using a RIM Blackberry, which is more of a paging style device with a very tiny keyboard. It works in the USA and Canada."One thing I've learned from the Blackberry is that the device being 'always on'   makes a big difference, even if it's a bad connection."Mobile devices really sharpen the need for usability research because they are smaller and more targeted. It's much easier with a website if there are 20 things to click: if you can only show five things, the requirement to get those right is much higher. That's why we need to take usability to the next level. My next battle is get customers to have usability work drive the feature set, not drive the screen design. So the battle never ends."Useful addressesUser Experience World Tourwww.nngroup.com/worldtourTop 10 mistakes in web designwww.useit.com/alertbox/9605.htmlThe Top 10 new mistakes of web designwww.useit.com/alertbox/990530.html
Freeserve, the UK's largest internet service provider, could fall into French hands for less than &#163;2bn after confirmation yesterday that it was in talks which could lead to a takeover offer.Freeserve - 80% owned by the retailer Dixons - refused to name the parties with which it was in discussions but France Telecom subsidiary Wanadoo said Freeserve was one of the companies it had its eye on.If a deal were reached with Wanadoo or any other buyer, Freeserve admitted it would be forced to accept a relatively low offer compared to expectations only a few months ago.A formal statement said: "The board has entered into discussions which may or may not lead to an offer being made for the company in shares. On the basis of yesterday's share prices it is unlikely that any such offer would be at a substantial premium to Freeserve's share price."Overnight speculation about a pending deal pushed Freeserve shares 13% higher to 165p but they ended the day up a mere 2.75p at 148.75p, still lower than their July 1999 float price.This level compares with a year high of 977p before the slide in technology stocks. Company sources said Freeserve would probably accept a 20-25% premium on the current share price to cement a deal.Freeserve broke off similar talks with T-Online, a subsidiary of Deutsche Telekom, in June amid speculation the Germans would be willing to pay &#163;6bn.France Telecom admitted it was studying "a large number of opportunities" and admitted Freeserve was one of the companies in which it was interested.Dixons declined to comment on talks but sources said Wanadoo was only one of a number of interested parties which were in discussion with Freeserve.A deal between Wanadoo and Freeserve would double the size of each firm's subscriber base to a total of nearly 4m.Freeserve provides free internet access as well as a range of services via its web portal. Wanadoo, France's biggest ISP, sells books, wine and other goods on the web.Both companies have failed so far to expand successfully beyond their national boundaries and both have recognised they need large-scale investment to compete in new areas such as mobile phone access and instant messaging.In the three months to August Freeserve produced &#163;14.6m worth of turnover but made pre-tax losses of a similar size. Wanadoo floated on the Paris stock market four months ago.New of the talks between Freeserve and Wanadoo sent a shockwave through Energis investors who feared their company - part-owned by the National Grid - could lose important telecom contracts if Freeserve were bought.Energis shares fell 50.5p to 440.5p as the City worried that Wanadoo would want to switch some of the Freeserve traffic from Energis to NTL, with which it has a closer relationship.Energis moved to calm fears that it might lose any business. "There should be no concerns - there is a contract in place between Energis and Freeserve," a company spokesman said. He refused to give details, but analyst Saeed Baradar of Bear Stearns said Energis told him it had a five-year deal until October 2003 to carry Freeserve's traffic.Meanwhile, Freeserve announced an exclusive deal to start a co-branded website with Kodak to provide online picture processing plus online storage of digital pictures.
Another month, another conference. This one, hosted by a respected internet business consultancy firm, chose what has become the default theme for our once-booming industry's events: what to do after the crash.The gathering degenerated into something of a blame game, with each panel and speaker choosing a new target for the failed dot.com investors' collective wrath. The people attending at this conference, like most internet investors, were latecomers. They had learned of the network a couple of years ago - after billions of dollars had already been made by earlier investors. Having jumped on the bandwagon only to watch it fall off a cliff, these ladies and gentlemen were ready to lynch the bandleader. If they could just figure out who that was.By late afternoon, one panel had come to an agreement. The culprits are those pimply twenty-something kids who work in makeshift studios over their garages, eating pizza and drinking Coke late into the night. "It's those pizza kids who fooled the investors," an internet strategist agreed. "They didn't care about your money at all. They just took it."We all know to whom they were referring. Those obsessive young internet enthusiasts who toiled late into the night just for the fun of it. Kids who had bizarre visions of the way people might enjoy networking, and the energy to take these visions from concept to code. These same kids were delighted that some adults took interest in their activities, and gleefully accepted money in exchange for a piece of their fledgling projects (they didn't even think of them as companies). They thought of it as a way to pay for a few more months of pizza, Coke, and   video games to play while they worked. These were the same kids who, for the most part, failed to create sustainable revenue models for their self-interested benefactors.But the angry panelists had their blame equation reversed. It wasn't the pizza kids who fooled the investors - it was the investors who had fooled the pizza kids!First off, what self-respecting businessperson would bet his money on a hacker? A hacker's interest is in creating and expanding networks, not earning a fast buck. Hackers are almost never businesspeople themselves. They are visionaries and explorers.Like the man said: "The pizza kids didn't care about your money at all." Of course not. They weren't in it for the money. They were in it for the thrill of discovery. And discovery, for its own sake, does not necessarily yield revenue.But by letting investors into their over-the-garage offices and accepting their dollars, the pizza kids surrendered their spirit of adventure for a value system they just didn't understand. It killed the fun, and dampened their ingenuity. Ideas that couldn't be patented were no longer considered valuable. Extending the functionality of someone else's products was deemed insanity. Results could be measured only in terms of revenue. Everything else was "burn".True, they didn't know how to think in terms of sustainable revenue - but this was never their job. In the old days, when giant corporations had thriving "research and development" departments, crazy inventors were shielded from the harsh reality of a technology's applicability in the marketplace. CEOs with a long-range view knew that if even 10% of their skunkworks and laboratory inventions could be brought to market someday, the R&amp;D was well worth the effort.The pizza kids, often living off day-jobs as IT office workers or university computer instructors, served as the internet's real R&amp;D department. The people who developed email did not make a profit though many companies are now making money by using it. The hackers who created the web and the first browsers distributed their work as freeware - and an awful of a lot of revenue has been earned thanks to these inventions. Unfortunately, the latecomer investment community had no real understanding of how technologies trickle up to profitability, and turned to the pizza kids as if they were   a commodity to be mined.The pizza kids are not without blame. They believed the same hyped-up articles that fooled the investors - those stories of young dot.com millionaires who had cashed in their code for stock options and their over-the-garage offices for mansions in Redwood Hills. And they were so desperate for someone, anyone, to acknowledge their existence that they took the investors at their word.Sorry, pizza kids. The investors didn't really care about your projects at all. They never even understood what it was you were trying to do.
It has just turned midnight in east Berlin. The Light Surgeons, a group of UK filmmakers, graphic designers and DJs are delighting a large crowd of young, fashionable (mostly) west Berliners at the former state bank of the GDR.The group is dazzling its audience with an audio-visual extravaganza that marked the end of a seven-day digital film festival in the city last Saturday night.The festival, the work of onedotzero, claims to be the largest of its kind in the world. Onedotzero showcases the best of new media, computer games and digital film. The festival drags cutting-edge work created for PCs and consoles and launches it onto the cinema screen. And in the case of the Light Surgeons, it is completely live.The Light Surgeons mix bits of film, computer graphics, music and photography in the way DJs mix dance records. They have grown up in clubs in London, providing the visuals for chill out rooms,   but now they want to take their work to another level and have started including bits of narrative in their latest work, Electronic Manoeuvres. Although most of the audience in Berlin stood up and talked freely during last Saturday's performance, Electronic Manoeuvres is a kind of documentary - albeit one that you are unlikely to have seen the likes of before.Part road movie, part critique on consumerism, the new work moves from the London Underground to Vegas and then into outer space. The Light Surgeons were let loose with digital camcorders in the US earlier this year. They recorded stories told by the homeless and began weaving them into the mix. It is a new style of film, they say, one they refer to as 'exploded documentary'."We're like a media circus," says Chris Allen, the group's founder member. "We use a digital camcorder, Super 8, photography and bits of audio we've recorded ourselves. I think digital film has given   people like us a way of approaching film that is different from traditional ways."Like much of the onedotzero programme, Electronic Maneuvers is digital film - but it's not the kind that you find on the web. Even though the festival features much of the best work by the UK's up-and-coming new media practitioners, it has so far shied away from producing an online version. Rather, the festival is a showcase for the visual landscape we can expect on the net in the coming months and years.Matt Hanson and Shane Walter founded the festival in 1996. A former film critic and theatre producer respectively, they have taken onedotzero to 25 cities worldwide, including Taipei, Melbourne, Barcelona and Nottingham. In addition to the festival, the pair are currently curating a TV series for Channel 4 and planning something called a 'remixable film' to be distributed over the net sometime next year. The Berlin festival also included presentation from two of the   UK's leading new media design agencies, State and recent Bafta winner Digit. Other highlights include the screening of introductory sequences from computer games such as Munch and Tekken Tag Tournament 3."As well as commissioning and producing work we have developed an audience that didn't exist before," says Walter. "In the first couple of years of the festival, people would ask us how we could programme TV advertising alongside graphic designers and architects and illustrators. Now I think people are really understanding what convergence means and understand that there is a need for a festival like this."Co-founder Matt Hanson concurs: "What a lot of people have tried to do is take a traditional film and squeeze it into a narrow bandwidth. What we've done is go the other way, and taken non-traditional film into the cinema."The Light Surgeons are all in their mid-20s, but it is not just the young who are taking to new forms of moving image. More experienced designers are finding a new lease of life by moving across into so-called 'time based' work. Andy Martin, a 40-something illustrator, showed his work at the first onedotzero, and has been a feature of the festival ever since."As the tools have been arriving there has been almost a stampede in the design world of people picking them up and looking to experiment with them," says Martin. "Some are looking purely at the commercial potential of digital film. "Others, including myself, are just looking to find new ways of expressing ourselves."Apple, for one, hopes desktop editing will do for it what   desktop publishing did for the company the 1980s. Each Apple computer now comes with iMovie, a basic desktop editing application that has been used to produce work for onedotzero.Hanson and Walter say that they are now inundated with offers of work to show at their festival. And they expect much more as designers, filmmakers, photographers and budding Light Surgeons move across many different forms of new media. Exploding documentary might just be the start of it.&#149;  Onedotzero4_reprise will be at the ICA, London from November 24-30Useful addressesOnedotzerowww.onedotzero.comDigitwww.digital-experiences.comEidoswww.eidos.co.ukNetbabywww.netbaby.comShynolawww.shynola.co.ukStatewww.statedesign.comTomatowww.tomato.co.uk
So you've filled out the forms and waited patiently but what will you be able to play when you pick up your PlayStation 2 tomorrow?Well, with 16 releases planned, you should not have too much trouble finding something that appeals, although it's worth bearing in mind that the first games on any new console are rarely perfect but usually simply graphically prettier renditions of older titles.Perhaps the most interesting title is Timesplitters. Produced by members of the team that made the splendid Goldeneye for N64, the game is a Quake-style first person shooter (FPS). But unlike the Bond classic, Timesplitters dispenses with story and character development and instead concentrates on action, reflexes and some very pretty visuals.Multiplayer is the biggest attraction, with split-screen carnage a mere multi-tap purchase away (the PS2 comes with only two 2 controller ports as standard).Elsewhere, Konami's Gradius 3&amp; 4 and Silent   Scope are different takes on the shooting genre. While the former is a playable, if old-fashioned, blaster, Silent Scope is graphically impressive sniper sim that allows you pick off the baddies from afar.The increasingly maverick Nintendo aside, it seems every games console launch must be accompanied by the roar of numerous racing games. PS2 is no different with at least four due out tomorrow.Ridge Racer V is the best known release and while it is the same powersliding arcade game as before, it has spruced-up track and car visuals. Unfortunately, the two-player game is a mess, with horrendous graphical fogging marring   what is, at least on your own, a fairly decent drive.If you like your automobiles a little different then you could sample the offroad buggy thrills of Smuggler's Run or drive the varied terrain of Wild Wild Racing. Midnight Club lets you drive around London and New York but is streets away from the similarly styled Metropolis Street Racer on Dreamcast.The fighting game, is well represented on PS2 launch day. Tekken Tag Tournament, the latest in the long running series, may be the best known. While little more than a pretty update, its looks at least set it apart from its dull rival, Streetfighter EX3.If you are looking for a different type of combat then the comedy pugilism of Ready 2 Rumble Boxing may appeal. Dynasty Warriors was a big hit in Japan but while it impresses visually, with plenty of onscreen enemies, longevity is a problem.For those who like a bit of plot with their combat then the Orphen is worth a look. It's no Final Fantasy but if   you're seeking a Role Playing Game then this is the only launch day choice.Sports fans are well catered for with a varied mix of silicon team games to enjoy. Football fans are in luck with two soccer games available from the off - FIFA 2001 and ISS. The latter is the purist's choice although smarter graphics can't hide the fact that this PS2 version lacks the subtlety and realism of Pro Evolution on the original PlayStation.FIFA 2001 is the latest in EA's polished series and offers a decent kickabout, helped considerably by an increased skill level; scoring is now satisfyingly difficult. EA are also releasing the well-received ice-hockey game, NHL 2001, and   Snowboard Supercross (SSX) - a topically wintry sporting challenge that has as much to do with style as it does with speed.If you are looking for something a little more original than sport, driving and fighting then the last batch of titles may be of interest. The visually appealing Rayman Revolution is the only platform game available but if you fancy something a little more cerebral then Fantavision and Aqua Aqua: Wetrix 2 are worth a look. Fantavsion is a psychedelic Japanese oddity that lets you control a fireworks display while attempting to match up colours. No less unusual is Aqua Aqua - a water-based 3D version of Tetris that sees you building up enclosed areas to stop the liquid leaking.Overall it's a typical launch-day mixed bag with good variety but no truly outstanding titles. However if you have managed to get hold of a PS2 then Time Splitters, FIFA 2001, Fantavision and Silent Scope are unlikely to disappoint.
ShoppedIf, as Mark Price mentioned in his article (Online November 16), some retailers have had so little success with online shopping that they have withdrawn from the market, Tesco seems to be suffering from the opposite problem.I use the Tesco Direct service, but after a frustrating experience today I'm beginning to wonder if it's worth the hassle. It took seemingly endless attempts before I could place an order.This morning I either couldn't log on at all, or having logged on, couldn't access my list of previous purchases. This afternoon things were slightly better, in that I could access the list and order, but these stubbornly refused to appear in the basket.When I did finally succeed, by a fluke, in persuading the system to accept that there were items in my basket, it needed several attempts before I managed to pay and get an acknowledgement.If I, as a computer literate person, had so much difficulty, how many others simply gave up? Until retailers take e-commerce seriously, they are likely to be treated with suspicion by most customers, and justifiably so.Richard Williamsrwilliams79@compuserve.comMark Price has hit on one of the problems that prevent people shopping on the net, but not all. I've been using PCs since 1986, went online with Compuserve in the late 1980s, have internet access both at home and work - and hardly ever bother to connect these days. And I wouldn't dream of shopping on the net.Why? Not just because it's slow and not just because of the sheer amount of drivel, but mainly because websites appear to be designed by geeks for geeks: why use a single, simple, logical form when 10 - complete with dancing logos and a five-minute wait for the unnecessary .gifs to download - will bugger it up properly? Add to this the fact that fraud is rampant and that the vast majority of firms   getting involved in e-commerce haven't a clue about security, and you begin to understand that it's still the wild west out there.Of course, there's also the problem of actually getting your hands on the goods. Late last year I argued with my geeky friends (whose Christmas trees arrived in January) that not only was e-commerce's support infrastructure lacking, but that it was a paradise for crooks.And quite apart from all that, there's no touchy-feely and no finding the marked-down bargains that actually makes shopping interesting rather than perfunctory.Tony Slinntonyslinn@uk.dmgworldmedia.comPacket mixRichard Sarson hasn't quite got the full story.Paul Baran, the American, was the first to conceive the idea of packet-switching, but Donald Davies, the Briton, first coined the phrase "packet-switching".Many others, besides Baran, Davies and Berners Lee also contributed to the development of the internet. The wonderful book by my colleague John Naughton, A Brief History Of The Future, provides a summary.Naughton points out that competition in the market place played very little part in the development of the internet, and that none of these contributors was motivated primarily by money.Ray Thomasr.thomas@open.ac.ukEmail adviceDermod Quirke thinks Online is wrong to advise on secure internet use at work, believing this will only be used to send infantile emails or download porn.Of course some employees may abuse IT facilities, just as they did phones or photocopiers. However, employees may need confidential contact with managers, human resources departments, occupational health, colleagues or union reps etc. You'd hope to talk to them privately at work without being videotaped. You'd expect to be able to phone them up without being eavesdropped. Why should the internet be different?Firms that respond to a few incidents by preventing all employees from exploring, using and benefiting from the net are short-sighted. If reasonable internet use is   banned, good employees circumvent the rules, or leave.Some employers are developing policies to define acceptable IT use, and control surveillance at work. Unfortunately, many employers are struggling to keep up with the net, so their employees need your advice on the risks.Ian Allinsonian.allinson@iname.comClean codeChris Gibson says HTML editors are rubbish (Feedback November 16). His remarks might apply to Microsoft's Frontpage but Macromedia's Dreamweaver 3 produces clean HTML and includes Javascript as well. Non-techies like me can create very reasonable web pages and people like Chris Gibson can use it to speed up some routine processes and then take over manually when they wish to put in their own code.Gavin Bullockgavin.bullock@dial.pipex.comI am a tyro granny-geek who is equally incompetent in HTML scripting and Frontpage. I feel that my experiences will stretch the motoring analogy beyond its elastic limit.My programming forays are usually of the "Granny Engulfed in Fast Lane Juggernaut Pile-up Fireball Horror" variety.On occasion I tinker under the HTML bonnet and manage to avoid a full-scale emergency services turn-out. However, when I've finally put everything back together I always seem to have pieces (seewww.btinternet.com/~Learn2Live/General/PhotoAlbum4.htm) left over!Jinty Batkinsjbatkins@altavista.comNetscape bugI read your report on the final release version of Netscape 6 with interest. Actually using Netscape 6 tells another story.I encountered many problems. Despite its supposedly improved layout engine, Gecko, Netscape 6 makes a mess of style sheets (if it detects them at all), refuses to display layers correctly and mangles Javascript menus. Not to mention the continual crashing.It seems Netscape has been so keen to incorporate gimmicks like skins and sidebars it forgot to produce a browser that actually works with the majority of web pages.Don't believe the hype.Ed Piperaqua2@btconnect.com
The original PlayStation was simply a games console. However, Sony has long harboured higher ambitions for the PS2. In a speech at the Comdex computer trade show last year, Sony Corporation's president, Nobuyuki Idei, said the company's ambitions went far beyond gaming.Idei presented the PS2 as a device which could be expanded to include "music, motion pictures and new forms of entertainment not yet developed".The PS2 could be part of a network of Sony devices. To begin with, it will play games (supplied by Sony and others), audio CDs (Sony owns CBS) and movies on DVD (Sony owns Columbia Pictures). It could also be connected to a Sony television set, to a Sony hi-fi, and, through its built in i.Link port, perhaps to a Sony digital still or video camera.There is also the prospect of connecting a PS2 to the internet, like a Sega Dreamcast games console, but this is not part of the system Sony is shipping tomorrow.Sony does have a grand design for connecting equipment: a networking system called HAVi (Home Audio Video Interoperability). The company has a huge mish-mash of electronics products and HAVi can tie them together.But the battle may be harder than expected, and roughly twice as many PCs will be sold this year as Sony PlayStations have been sold in the past five years. PCs have also been networked devices for almost two decades, with wireless networks becoming important during the past decade.With Wi-Fi standard wireless networks already connecting home PCs, and Bluetooth (short range wireless) PC Cards starting to arrive, being locked out of the living room may not be to the PC's disadvantage. And Sony's own desktop and notebook PC salesmen are not going to pass up this profitable market.There is the risk that the idea that the PS2 is just a Trojan horse for Sony's home networking system idea may confuse the PS2 market. In fact, both Nintendo and Microsoft have spent the past six months hammering home the fact that their next-generation consoles, the Gamecube and the Xbox, are being designed solely to deliver great games.It remains to be seen whether there is a market for a system that tries span both the games and the home network market, especially if it fails to do any of them sufficiently well.
Spys like usHere's another good reason not to misbehave at your upcoming works Christmas party. Scheduled to go on sale next week is the SpyPen, a tiny digital camera squeezed into a slim upright frame not a great deal larger than an average ball-point.The SpyPen takes and archives low resolution (352x288 pixels) images which can then be transferred to a PC via its accompanying software and USB cable. It will also record a few seconds' worth of moving images.Blackmailing opportunities should ensure that the &#163;70 outlay for one is easily recouped.More details are available fromwww.spypen.comTo buy one visitwww.digital-ps.co.uk.Krafty keyboardGood news for handheld PC owners who still can't get their heads round their device's handwriting recognition systems. Coming next   year is a fabric keyboard accessory for palmtops which can be rolled up for easy storage.Developed by UK company ElectroTextiles, the Elektex keyboard can apparently be folded, washed and even sprayed with coffee and still continue to function. The design the company recently paraded at the IT Expo exhibition at Cannes actually wraps around a palmtop to provide a protective case.Although ElectroTextiles hasn ot yet signed on the dotted line with any of the handheld PC operating system owners, it remains confident that the Elektex will be on sale in spring or summer. It is quoting a price for the keyboard as $65 (or around &#163;40).DVD double-act is a Christmas crackerChristmas will come three days early for Japanese video fans. Slated to go on sale on December 22 is the RD-2000, the world's first pairing of a DVD recorder with a hard disk drive.The unit allows users to make temporary video recordings on to its 30 gigabyte hard disk and then, if they find something they want to archive, transfer the footage to a DVD-RAM disc.There's also a Just mode, where image quality is determined by the   amount of space left on the DVD-RAM disc. Other facilities include pausing and instantly replaying live TV, the option of creating on-screen thumbnail images for each programme recorded and playback of pre-recorded DVDs and CDs.The price for the unit is expected to be 270,000 yen (&#163;1,750). Toshiba currently has no plans to sell the RD-2000 in the UK.A unit that combines a hard disk drive with a S-VHS recorder from JVC went on sale in Japan last week.
Legend of Zelda: Majora's MaskN64	&#163;49.99 Nintendo	*****Two years ago Nintendo released an epic game called Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time. It was a bit good. Actually, it was sleep-disturbingly tremendous and deservedly won as many awards as it could.Now, the game has a sequel (actually it's the sixth in the long-running series but who's counting?).Called Majora's Mask, the game is, on the surface, more of the same, with that familiar mix of action, adventure and inventive puzzles coupled with slightly improved graphics. However, the big twist is that you have only three days to save the world before the moon crashes into the earth.This doesn't give you long   and time plays a crucial part in proceedings, especially when you learn how to manipulate it.As in the movie Groundhog Day, the player is able to constantly relive the three days and will get to know the comings and goings of the characters, which is essential.In another innovation the player can wear a variety of masks that change your form as well as your ability. So, if you need to swim underwater, you simply need to slip on the Zora mask.Zelda traditionalists will be pleased to hear that the dungeons are as well-designed as ever, with the player thwarted by the ingenious puzzles and not the controls or camera (which are both excellent).In fact, the only real problem is the frustration caused by turning back time at the wrong point and having to re-do solved challenges. It may lack the wonderfully epic nature of its predecessor - it just isn't as big - but Majora's Mask is another Zelda triumph.  (GH)The World Is Not EnoughSony PlayStation	&#163;29.99 Electronic Arts	***Bond is back, and our favourite agent is packing some entertaining weapons: a mobile phone, a fountain pen, a miniature torch and a watch.Naturally these gadgets do remarkable things. The mobile phone, for example, delivers an electric shock powerful enough to stun opponents several feet away.But as you progress through the game, you quickly pick up more traditional alternatives, including a double-barrelled shotgun.Twine (The World Is Not Enough) is a Goldeneye 007-style first person shooter for the PlayStation, though it will actually be a multi-format release. And if you can run   any of the forthcoming Nintendo 64, PlayStation 2 or PC versions of the game, they will probably provide a more satisfying experience.Maybe in some of them, you will be able to make the controls more like Quake 3, and turning won't take quite so much time. (That should   be a safe bet because EA has licensed Id Software's Quake 3 Arena game engine for the PC and PS2 versions.)This 15-rated version is said to stay pretty close to the film, which I haven't seen. Certainly there are plenty of scenarios, with more than a dozen missions to keep you   busy, plus a cheats screen for special options. What Twine lacks is a multiplayer mode. However, it looks better put together than Black Ops' last Bond effort, Tomorrow Never Dies. And considering how well that sold, this could become a huge hit.SheepMind's Eye	&#163;29.99 Productions/ Empire Interactive	**It must have looked like a no-lose formula. Take a cute, harmless animal. Animate it cartoonishly, give it an absurd back story, and place it in situations that may cause it to undergo a bloody and violent death. By all rights, you should have a cult post-pub hit on your hands.Alas, the programmers of Sheep left one vital ingredient out of the mix: fun.The absurd back story, for what it is worth, goes like this: alien sheep have returned to earth to pick up their terrestrial brethren, and it's your job to round up the troops.Run at them, creep up to them, shout at them, pick them up and throw them if necessary - whatever it takes to get the woolly wallies to   safety. Needless to say, there are no end of hazards between you and your goal: allow them to stray into a minefield or too close to the jaws of a crab and splat, mint sauce time.Herding is a fiddly, slow, frustrating pastime, and Sheep would appear to be a fairly accurate re-creation of the experience. Its newness makes it challenging, but it is   no white-knuckle ride. Second, it has limited multiplayer appeal. The two-player option is a frenetic game of sheep football, in which you have to herd your sheep in such a manner that they manoeuvre the ball into the opponent's goal, but it's more a demonstration of Brownian motion than a tense tactical head-to-head.Finally, while no one   expects state-of-the-art graphics from a novelty title, this looks like it was written on an Amstrad for the ZX81.If I wanted to watch teeny, tiny blurry things moving around slowly, I'd pour tea leaves in my eye.In its defence, Sheep is, at least, original. Except for the fact that it's a bit like lemmings. And worms.
Oxford Pop-up English Language Reference Shelf (CD-rom)	&#163;29.99Windows 95 onwards. 32 Mb ramCommercial suicide though this may conceivably be for the publisher, it's devilishly handy for the user. OUP has bundled four of its top-selling reference titles, worth &#163;88 in bookshops, into a &#163;29.99 CD-rom in a format that enables you to look up a word or name faster and with less interruption than the time it would take you to pull down a volume from a shelf.Double-click the word in a Windows document or rest the cursor on an internet page; and there, in a pop-up box, you get relevant, expandable entries from the New Oxford Dictionary of English, the New Oxford Thesaurus, the flagship Oxford Dictionary of Quotations and the Oxford Paperback (herere-  titled the Oxford World) Encyclopaedia, all compressed and fully installed into 80Mb of your hard disk.One novelty is the instant way a plug-in developed by OUP's partner, the London-based, Norwegian-backed iFinger, throws up the box from its database on to your screen. The English dictionary and encyclopaedia are serious but fairly cut-down affairs, meant primarily for language students; you can search only by single word; and the device did, slightly and so far manageably, throw out one or two other programmes running on my PC.In theory, you can also browse through the full text of each dictionary, though the small size of the box doesn't make this tempting.Later versions are due to add a box that pronounces words in sound for the language market. For general users, it is already both a delightful toy and (with the above reservations) a genuine benefit as a combined, finger-light reference tool.  (JE)HipZip Digital Audio PlayerIomega	&#163;289.99MP3 files may be free but storing them is anything but. You can buy an MP3 player for under &#163;80 but with high-quality MP3 files taking up a megabyte a minute, you will find that your dinky little player has only a dinky little repertoire. And if you get stuck in a traffic jam or a delayed train for a couple of hours, those 20 minutes or so of tunes stored in its tiny memory are going to become awfully repetitive.You can expand the range but Sony's memory sticks, for example, are expensive: a Sony Internet personal hi-fi costs around &#163;300 and comes with 64 MB of memory. But another 64MB memory stick will set you back another &#163;150.This is a gap in the market that Iomega, makers of the Zip drive disks, are hoping to exploit with the HipZip digital audio player.This compact device (about 4in x 2 1/2 in x 1in) stores its music on PocketZip disks (originally launched as click disks). These are smaller versions - about 2in wide - of the familiar 100MB and 250MB Zip disks.The HipZip sits snugly in the pocket and although it is a   disk reader, not a solid state device, it is remarkably resilient. It easily passes the jogging test - it doesn't skip a beat even should you choose to shake it like a pair of maracas while grooving to Salsa tracks.It comes with software to create and play MP3 files on your CD or Mac. The demo version I used would not work but this was not vital because you can use whatever virtual jukebox you like.However, you do need the supplied IomegaWare disk, which takes up a hefty slab of your hard disk. But it does make downloading files very simple.Just hook up the HipZip to your USB port and it appears on Explorer or Finder as a removable drive. Then drag and drop the files you want on or off the player.Then you're up and away with about 10 hours' life on the HipZip's rechargeable battery. It's easy to operate, has good-quality sound and comes in a neat case with a belt clip. Each disk holds 40MB - about 40 minutes at high quality.The demo of the HipZip came with two disks, each with a selection of prerecorded tunes that you can delete or pop on to your hard drive for later use.Iomega says it is going to include four disks in future. Extra disks cost between &#163;8 and &#163;10 each - cheap compared with memory sticks but expensive compared with minidiscs, which can be bought for between &#163;1   and &#163;2 and will hold 74 minutes of music.However, minidiscs work on Sony's Atrac 3 format and will not accept MP3 files unless you play them as audio tracks from your computer through the earphone socket - which is slower than downloading MP3 files and can reduce sound quality.Sharp is tackling the problem with its Voquette adaptor, a &#163;49 device that allows you to store MP3 files on a minidisc (but it appears that this is compatible only with Sharp minidisc players).The HipZip does have one advantage in that it will also act as a convenient portable external file store. I dropped a couple of digicam files on it along with the MP3 files.The player worked happily, ignoring the digicam files. But I was able to open   the pictures when I hooked the Hipzip up to my laptop's USB port.So if you are thinking of investing in a Zip drive as well as an MP3 player then the HipZip is a good option (a freestanding PocketZip drive alone costs &#163;249).The only quibble could be with the size of the disks. As file sizes grow ever larger, I have found my 100MB Zip disks are filling up fast.If Iomega could at least double the capacity of PocketClick disks, it could be on to a winner.That is, of course, if Sony doesn't come up with a way to store all types of files on the far cheaper minidiscs.  (JE)
