Yes, Nintendo has promised to replace your Wii wrist strap if you accidentally break it while bowling or perhaps putting in a particuarly vicious cross-court volley. Users can ring Nintendo's national customer service helpline, or send their frayed straps back to the company for a replacement. If you have found yourself the victim of a wrist strap malfunction, you can also fill out theonline request form. There's even a dedicated email address - wiiwriststrap@codestorm.co.uk - where perhaps injured and incapacitated gamers can reach experts in the event of an emmergency.If you haven't yet succumbed to a movement sensor related calamity, please - for the sake of yourself and those within striking distance - read thissafety information. Don't let the next black eye beyourwife's.
Sonim plays with Wii"Nintendo said Friday it will replace 3.2 million straps for its popular Wii computer game controllers after receiving a rash of reports that the devices flew out of the hands of overzealous players," reportsAP.Nintendo will allow customers to exchange the old straps, which have a 0.024 inch diameter, for a beefed up strap that has a diameter of 0.04 inch, company spokesman Yasuhiro Minagawa said. The worldwide recall is expected to cost the company several several million dollars."People tended to get a bit excited, especially while playing Wii sports and in some cases the control would come loose from their hands," Minagawa said. "The new strap will be almost twice as thick."Comment: I've included the educational YouTube vid of Son Sonim playing Wii because (a) she was the "campaign girl" for Castlevania on the PlayStation 2; (b) she's my favouriteJ-Pop star-- a sort of Korean/Japanese version of Kylie Minogue -- and (c) well, it's Friday afternoon.....
Security guru Bruce Schneier (whose Counterpane Security we seem to recall is now owned by BT) has done a breakdown on the passwords used by MySpace users, following theMySpace phishing expeditionwe wrote about the other week.Turns out that while people are getting better at choosing passwords (making them longer - more than 50% were between 7 and 9 characters long - and including numbers and other punctuation where allowed), there's still a little way to go.The most common password? "password1". Quoth Schneier:We used to quip that "password" is the most common password. Now it's "password1." Who said users haven't learned anything about security?The top 20 passwords? password1, abc123, myspace1, password, blink182, qwerty1, fuckyou, 123abc, baseball1, football1, 123456, soccer, monkey1, liverpool1, princess1, jordan23, slipknot1, superman1, iloveyou1 and monkey.But even the dreaded "password1" is only used in 0.22% of the accounts.This assumes, of course, that the accounts which were phished were representative of MySpace users; there were 34,000 in the analysis, out of the many millions on MySpace. Whether it's accurate depends on what sort of passwords those who are likely to get phished use, or whether there's no correlation between phishability and password strength. We'll let you consider that one...
AMD probably can't duck out of the "multicore wars" with Intel, but it has an interesting sideline that might just become mainstream in what it calls Accelerated Processing Units. According toThe Tech Report:APUs will be multi-core chips that include any mix of processor cores and other dedicated processors. Fusion, AMD's integrated CPU and graphics processor, is AMD's first step in that direction. However, the company eventually intends add more specialized cores that can handle tasks other than general-purpose computing and graphics. AMD didn't give any specific examples, but one could easily imagine future Fusion-like chips with cores for physics processing, audio/video encoding, and heck, maybe even AI acceleration.Another interesting idea is on the mobile roadmap: hybrid graphics systems. The Tech Report explains:According to AMD, notebooks with hybrid graphics will include both discrete and integrated graphics processors. When such notebooks are unplugged, their integrated graphics will kick in and disable the discrete GPU. As soon as the notebook is plugged back into a power source, the discrete GPU will be switched on again, apparently without the need to reboot. AMD says this technology will enable notebooks to provide the "best of both worlds" in terms of performance and battery life.This is clearly aimed at the Vista market, as is forthcoming support for DirectX 10, but I'm not sure how it will go down. It might be nice to switch in the GPU for games, for example, but if you become used to using the Aero Glass effects, won't it be disconcerting if they keep getting switched off?
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
I grabbed coffee this morning withMena TrottandAndrew AnkerofSix Apart, the blogging company behind Typepad, Movable Type, LiveJournal and now Vox.It's been an interesting week for the company, after their Le Web conferencestirred up a blogging stormand tangentally ended up with the editor of TechCrunch UKbeing fired. So, time to talk turkey...SixApart vice president Loic Le Meur called TechCrunch editor Sam Sethi an "arsehole" on his blog after criticisms of Le Web - and there has been a strong reaction among some people to the line up, which included a lot of French politicians. How do you feel about that?Andrew Anker: For better or worse we've always been a very public company. We've had some love out of the blog world, and moments of negativity. But we're all grown ups and Loic is one of our peers, so we don't dictate. Mena has said before that we build megaphones - and sometimes they turn back on us.Mena Trott: I don't think anyone thinks that as a company we're pushing a French political agenda. Loic's a very large personality, but we trust our team members and groups to act independently.AA: It's a bit like a case of "we don't mind what people say as long as they spell our names right": we don't mind what people say, good or bad, as long as they're using our tools to do it.MT: Maybe some people weren't happy about Le Web, but we're a good business and there are bumps along the way.Is it good for business? You recently launchedVox, a new blogging tool...AA: Well, Vox is entering the deal phase now. We've had a lot of ideas about partnerships... either with people with large audiences, like ISPs, or people who have interesting content and communities like media companies. People have a lot of good video assets that they want to bring online, and Vox is a good way to do that. The zeitgeist six or seven years ago was that once a piece of music or video was online it was lost, and the sales had gone. Now they're realising there's a balance to be struck... it's a branding exercise.Maybe some of these companies are a little scared of YouTube because Google owns it and they don't know what they're going to do, but also YouTube is still not great at community.MT: There isn't clear ownership - there's nothing much to a YouTube users' page that tells you more about them.AA: So one of the things we're going to do is let partners offer private content to their community members, so for example a TV company could push video into the library of everyone who was part of the group. Users are happy because they get new content, and companies are happy because they're building loyalty.So you have a lot of possible partnerships on the table. But does that mean you're more interested in business partnerships than the grassroots user base? After all, ordinary users don't really pay your wages.MT: You wouldn't have one without the other.AA: Yes, I think they're both important. The more the circle starts to work, the better Vox gets. We're not focused on getting every drop of monetisation out of this, we want it to grow.Does that mean your other products - Typepad, Livejournal, Movable Type - are going to be put on the back burner? Movable Type, for example, has been unloved for a long time.MT: We've been sort of schizophrenic with our products. We have had to decide exactly what kind of products we're making. Typepad started out as a personal service, but the paying customers self-selected so it became primarly a power user's tool, for businesses. Movable Type has sadly not been given as much attention as it deserves. But we've recently reorganised and now we have split into a consumer division - Vox and LiveJournal - and a professional unit - Typepad and Movable Type.AA: And Movable Type is now getting more love - we started investing heavily over the summer. We're investing heavily in everything right now.So what's next?MT: We've got some big Vox releases coming in the early part of next year. There'sSuite 2.0, which is an Intel bundle for business packed with stuff including Six Apart software.AA: We're not out of the startup phase, but we have moved it to a different level.MT: When [husband] Ben and I started out we were so naive - we did so much on our own in the first 18 months that we thought if we had four people instead of two we could do twice as much. But now we have 140 people working for us, and we have people who we can call on instead of trying to do everything ourselves. It actually means that now it's time to work harder.AA: The real issue for us now is to build up the synergies around all the products, and simplify things that can be done easily.
Just as I've been sorting out my top 5 of the year - yes, Psychonauts is finally available for the 360. The latest list of original Xbox games you can play on the 360has been released, with the clever platformer/adventure joined by the welcome likes of Fahrenheit and Conker (no, really). And with the 360 lacking games of the style and quality of Psychonauts and Fahrenheit in particular it has to be good news. Actually I think that's me sorted - are there any decent Xbox games left that you can't now play on the 360?
Amid the conflict in Sudan, the realities of life continue. People have to eat and water needs to be boiled to be safe for everyday use. The conflict there has killed more than 100,000 people and displaced thousands more, who often gather at camps, putting immediate stress on the ability of the surrounding countryside to supply their needs.But kerosene stoves - an alternative initially considered by relief agencies - are expensive to run: buying 200,000 kerosene-fuelled stoves for refugees would cost &pound;800,000, and one month's supply of fuel costs about &pound;6m. The fuel then has to be transported (a risky undertaking in itself) and distributed. That is not an effective or promising system; it doesn't fit the approach espoused by EF Schumacher, the economist who coined the phrase "small is beautiful", and who was the founder of Practical Action, the Guardian's chosen charity this Christmas.Practical Action says that the solutions to problems like this should start with the people, not the technology: to provide long-term answers, they need to be in local peoples' hands, under their own control. Thus the focus was not to import fuel but instead to develop better ways to make the available wood more effective.This would bring a double benefit. Reducing the amount of foraging required can have a dramatic effect on personal safety: mostly, wood was collected by women and children, sometimes for up to six hours at a time. That put them at risk of being robbed, attacked or raped by the local militia. In addition, reducing the amount of wood collected puts less strain on the ecosystem, which might thus be able to support the refugees for longer.Practical Action's more fuel-efficient stove only requires half as much wood as the traditional alternative, an open fire - and the teams also devised other techniques that increase the efficiency further. These include using dry wood, protecting the fire, and simmering the food gently: this last step can greatly reduce the time needed to cook food.Other steps that help improve the efficiency of cooking include preparation of ingredients, the use of lids, pre-soaking beans, tenderisers such as sodium bicarbonate, cleaning pots after use and putting fires out rapidly once cooking is done. Those all squeeze more from the same wood stock - cutting the time needed for cooking by up to 25%, while using half as much wood.So what is the secret? The stove's walls are made from animal dung and river clay, which is mixed with water. It is then shaped around bricks, with a hole in the side for firewood. Shaping is key: by moulding it with a cooking pot resting on the top, the new oven can be precisely matched to its future users' utensils. After three days' drying, it is ready for use.This is where your contribution can help. Just &pound;30 will help provide materials to build a stove that can save lives - by reducing the need to forage and extending the usefulness of the campsite. A contribution of &pound;85 pays for a day's training to teach 25 women how to make the stoves.Your donations can make a difference. Please, give generously. Phone 0800 077 6940 or go to:guardian.co.uk/christmasappeal
The Legend of Zelda: Twilight PrincessWii, &pound;39.99, cert 3+Nintendo, 5/5Nintendo's new gaming philosophy for the Wii - accessible to all - makes sense, but it left some older fans worried that epic classics such as Ocarina of Time would never be repeated. They needn't have worried - Zelda: Twilight Princess is as involving, lengthy and enjoyable as anything Nintendo has done in the past. Veterans will know what to expect - puzzles, satisfying jingles - but newcomers shouldn't have much difficulty getting to grips with adventuring. The graphics make up in artistic style what they lack in definition, but the joy of the Zelda games is in the puzzles. Entering one of the many dungeons for the first time, panning the camera to take in the view while mentally searching for clues on how to proceed - Zelda requires brains as well as brawn. The Wii controls work surprisingly well and adds a tactile involvement to the action. A modern fairytale and a joy to play, Twilight Princess is a classic.GHLord of The Rings: Rise of The Witch KingPC, &pound;19.99, cert 12+EA, 3/5The original Battle for Middle Earth 2 had its flaws but this add-on corrects most of them. There's a new campaign, of course, that allows you to raze Middle Earth to ash - which is pretty much what most of us wanted to do all along. Some of the new units need better balancing, but there are plenty of them and the "War of the Ring" mode is expanded and provided with a host of new one-off battles. It won't give Total War any competition, but it makes for a decent balance of realtime and turn-based strategy. And the graphics remain stunning - especially in multiplayer mode. Full marks to EA for continuing to mine the Tolkien/Jackson legacy to great effect.MAWii PlayWii, &pound;34.99, cert 3+Nintendo, 3/5Typically for a new console, the Wii comes with only one controller, which is a bit naughty. But at least Nintendo had the decency to give Wii Play away free with every extra controller it sells. A collection of nine mini-games, it is designed to showcase the myriad abilities of the controller (known colloquially as the Wiimote) and while some of its constituents are laughably basic, others prove surprisingly moreish. The highlights include Shooting Range, a homage to Duck Hunt that sees you firing at balloons, ducks, targets, cans and aliens; Laser Hockey, an astonishingly tactile version of table air hockey, in which force-feedback vibration and buzzing noises from the Wiimote's speaker create an impression of electrical charge; and Charge, a gloriously bonkers affair that sees you riding what appears to be a knitted cow, and mowing down pedestrians. Wii Play has enough variety for you and a partner, child or relative to find at least something you will both enjoy playing against each other, so encapsulates the essence of the Wii - even if it does contain some dross.SB
Free news for allWikia, from the people behind Wikipedia, has launched Open Serving. It's a free server where anyone can post content and collect advertising revenue.openserving.com/Photo sharingPicasa Web Albums is an extension of Google's Picasa problem, and lets users share their photos online.picasaweb.google.co.uk/City of Tomorrow: SwindonSwindon has held on to its lead as the UK city with the highest broadband penetration - 59.8% - according to Point Topic research. Cardiff and St Albans are next.point-topic.comMicrosoft goes roboticMicrosoft's robotics group has released the Microsoft Robotics Studio software development kit, available as a free download for non-commercial users.msdn.microsoft.com/robotics/Land searchThe Council for the National Land Information Service has been set up "to provide electronic access to all the official sources of land and property information" to streamline the home-buying process.nlis.org.uk/Cornish calculatorOne-man software band Colin Garbutt has written TreeCel, which is "a sort of calculator and a sort of spreadsheet".glybsoft.com/Hotmail is 10Hotmail celebrates its 10th birthday this month, and says that it has 270m active accounts worldwide and more than 8.8 million users in the UK.Whither Galileo?The EC has started a public consultation on the possible uses of its planned $4.8bn satellite navigation system, Galileo.
Last year I wrote an opinion piece for the Guardian about social software called How the Web Will Link Us All (technology.guardian.co.uk). It is, I proclaimed, a technological movement that connects people in significant ways. I received a deluge of emails. Some were from older people who'd lost loved ones and felt isolated, and needed advice on the best way to reach out and touch someone. Others were creative types who saw the potential for the new technologies to turbo-boost their grassroots ideas into the mainstream.Most people were simply excited by it and wanted to tell someone. Their responses provide the fodder I often use for answers to questions like, "So, what's wrong with real life?" whenever people find out what I do for a living.This year, non-technology papers screamed about MySpace. Google bought YouTube, a video-sharing community, for a scandalous amount of money. Yahoo! launched its social search Yahoo! Answers, and South Park did a spoof of World of Warcraft. Not since the dotcom bubble of the late 1990s has there been such mainstream excitement about things that happen inside computers. Sure, the idea of technology that brings people together may seem obvious now, but that's because we've discovered what it can do, and how it can connect us in meaningful ways.I often get criticised by readers of the Gamesblog because I don't regularly talk about traditional games. Well, the offline games that were released this year didn't do much for me. Sequels in name and incognito; my shelf groans with cookie-cutter copies of old software. But in 2006, against my better judgment, I fell for virtual worlds.One of the things I like most about them is how they bring people together. They're social software rather than just software. They make much more inspiring entertainment than hanging out with the incoherent 15-year-olds who tend to block up Xbox Live.There will be plenty of digital partying online this year as people rev up for the holidays. Virtual communities tend to mark times of joy, like birthdays and New Year's Eve, and times of sadness, like personal memorials or days of national mourning. I'm still amazed at the groups in City of Heroes, a comic-inspired massively multiplayer game, who bowed in respect to their fallen Superman after Christopher Reeve died.This year, before I head off to see family and friends, I'll be preparing a virtual pot of mulled wine for my digital mates who, sadly, I won't be able see in person. But the bonds that we forged in 2006 across oceans and across the street will remain just as strong in 2007. That's what being social is all about, isn't it?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The Office of Fair Trading has put a price on the cost to the economy of not making more government data freely available: &pound;500m. In a long-awaited report on public sector information - data created as a byproduct of government activities - the watchdog says that government policy allows public bodies to rig markets for data they generate in their own favour. It also found evidence that public bodies are secretive about the data they hold, restrictive in the way they license it, and may be abusing their position as monopolies.Although stopping short of endorsing Technology Guardian's Free Our Data proposal, the report says the Treasury should investigate the benefits of making those public sector databases freely available for commercial re-use. Confusion in government policy is stifling the re-use of data - and that policy "could be better informed by a proper assessment of whether [information] be provided for free".The 180-page report (avilable as a 707KB PDF atoft.gov.uk) also fires a shot across the bows of Ordnance Survey, the largest and most successful player in the public sector data market. It warns of "further action" unless the mapping agency changes the way it works with businesses that use its data (see below). This could include a referral to the Competition Commission, which has the power to order OS to change its business model.Full potentialCovering many of the conflicts highlighted by the Guardian's campaign, the report - in preparation since June 2005 - says the huge resources of data created at taxpayers' expense are not being exploited to their full potential. Today, the market in maps, weather forecasts and other products created from public sector information is worth about &pound;590m a year to the UK economy; creating a level playing field would double that sum to around &pound;1.1bn, the OFT says.The OFT draws a distinction between "raw" data, collected in the course of government work, and "refined" data which has been processed for sale or other use. It praises some organisations, such as British Geological Survey, for making the raw data from its notebooks available for free. Problems arise with organisations that both collect and refine data - but offer no easy way for the private sector to access the raw data. Guardian Technology's Free Our Data campaign argues that the raw data collected by government agencies should be made available for no more than the cost of simple distribution (which online is free). Furthermore, there is obvious economic benefit in making refined data generated by government bodies with a statutory duty to be comprehensive - such as Ordnance Survey and the UK Hydrographic Office - free for re-use on the same conditions.Abuse of positionThe report's concerns include:&middot;Organisations with monopolies in raw data may be abusing their position by providing the data to their own commercial operations on better terms.&middot;Organisations are reluctant to provide "unrefined" data.&middot;High prices and poor customer service. More than one third of businesses relying on public sector information reported problems with their supplier.&middot;"Significant evidence" of unreasonable licensing conditions, such as requiring a company to share its business plan with a potential competitor.&middot;Failure to provide separate accounts for activities involving raw and refined data.&middot;"Extremely limited and insufficient" resources at the sector regulator, the Office of Public Sector Information.Despite its concerns, the report finds evidence of good practice. As well as British Geological Survey, it also commends the Met Office for transparent accounts. To create a level playing field, the OFT says government bodies should make their unrefined information available for re-use, priced at no more than the cost of producing it.It also recommends that holders of public sector information split their accounts to show how much they earn from refined and unrefined data and set simpler and less intrusive licensing conditions. The Treasury should give the Office of Public Sector Information more resources and new powers to check compliance to the rules, to conduct unannounced "information audits", for example.Government, led by the Department of Trade and Industry, has 90 days to say whether it accepts the OFT's recommendations. Many of the concerns raised about the market in public sector information could be resolved if government bodies pulled out of the market in value-added products and made their unrefined data available for free, the OFT says. The drawback is that barring public bodies from the market might mean some products would not be developed. Ordnance Survey, for example, says large parts of the country would no longer be mapped. The OFT says such questions are outside its remit.Nonetheless the OFT's conclusion - that society as a whole gains from encouraging the wider re-use of public sector data - is more ammunition for this growing campaign to free our digital crown jewels.Ordanance Survey targeted in explosive reportOf the 120 government bodies earning income by supplying information, the Office of Fair Trading selects one for special attention. Ordnance Survey (OS) not only has the largest revenues (&#163;100m a year), it is also unique in the "nature and seriousness" of problems reported by businesses using its data. The OFT found:&#183;OS's licensing terms allow it to refuse to allow its data to be used in products intended to compete with any product Ordnance Survey markets - or intends to market.&#183;Companies wishing to license OS information must share their business plans with the organisation. OS says this is essential to set fair prices; the OFT says it is unreasonable.&#183;One company that wanted to bid for a government contract in competition with OS could not licence information from OS on terms that would comply with the bid.The OFT notes that "one of the more noticeable factors is the way in which previous attempts by regulators and other bodies to influence the behaviour of OS have met with resistance", and criticises OS's lawyers for relying on "the most recent statement of the outer limits" of competition law to defend its terms and conditions.The OFT says it has discussed its concerns both with OS and its parent ministry, the Department for Communities and Local Government. It warns that if its concerns are not resolved "we would need to consider whether further action by the OFT would be warranted". 
OS responded that it would give the OFT's recommendations "very careful and serious consideration".Still, OS had one piece of good news this week: the Office of Public Sector Information failed to uphold a complaint lodged in October on behalf of organisations wanting to re-use census data. However the changes called for by the OFT, especially in making raw data available without strings to competitors, will be harder to shrug off.Michael Cross&#183; Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk&#183; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Windows or Linux PC?I want to get a new PC, while avoiding "lock in" to suppliers of hardware or software. I was thinking of a Linux system, but I have some DOS and Windows programs I'd like to retain, and I'm too short of time and brainpower to become technically involved.Peter DavisJack Schofield replies:A Windows machine is still your best bet, as this gives you by far the widest choice of hardware and software, and it's the cheapest way to get a copy of Windows. Having got a Windows PC to run your existing software, you can then install your Linux distro of choice, such as Ubuntu (ubuntu.com), for no extra charge. Although this will not include support, at least you will be in fairly well-known territory. Alternatively, you might be able to find an acceptable PC running a version of Linux you want, and you might be able to get your DOS and Windows programs running via something like Wine (winehq.com), but this approach requires more effort and promises few if any cost savings.What the %@&amp;?I am trying to access a site with a backward slash in the address and IE7 keeps autocorrecting it.Judy RocheJS:There are alternative ways to enter problematic and reserved characters in web addresses. The one you are most likely to see is %20, which is used to replace a space. For the \ character, you can substitute %5C, and for the / character, %2F. There is a list of common escape characters atcontractwebdevelopment.com.FootprintsMy son and his friends use my PC to surf all sorts of websites. Is it possible to remove traces of where they have been without buying a specific program to do the job?Brian LobellJS:If people are using the same PC, it's best if they log on using different accounts. Otherwise, the free "crap cleaner" CCleaner (ccleaner.com) does a pretty good job of removing tracks such as the browser history, cookies, autocomplete entries and, if necessary, the index.dat file.AOL mailI have just signed up to AOL in France and my email is on their browser. How can I change it to Outlook Express?Mickey ManthaJS:You can use Outlook Express and other mail software with AOL if you create an account with the correct settings. AOL's documentation for France (atpostmaster.aol.fr/imap) suggests imap.fr.aol.com for incoming mail, using the default port 143, and smtp.fr.aol.com for outgoing mail using port 587. The unofficial AOL email FAQ (members.aol.com) also has advice and settings for some other countries. For AOL's step-by-step guide to using Outlook Express 6, seepostmaster.info.aol.com. Incidentally, port 587 is now the preferred Message Submission Port for authenticated email (see RFC2476) rather than port 25. This could help reduce spam.Backchat&middot;Carola Langford wanted a portable device to store photos while travelling, and considered the DigiMate III. Graeme Shaw says an alternative is the Vosonic 8360, which can read most memory cards. See:vosonic.com&middot;Continuing with laptop cleaning, Joachim Stoeber says he used the nozzle of a high-powered vacuum cleaner to suck dust out "through the mesh of the fans where it had entered in the first place. Afterwards: fans again silent, notebook again fast and batteries again lasting for two hours because the fans are not on high speed all the time."&middot;Joan Zilva says she has also had problems with Norton Internet Security 2007. "I returned to my 2005 version, but my disc seems corrupted and threatens to cut me off at the end of this month instead of a year later. Despite numerous and lengthy attempts, the technical department can't cure it. My money is being refunded."
Reining in the phishersDeploying .bank domain names might be a headline grabber, but it's not a workable solution to eliminating phishing attacks (Can banks elude online sharks, December 7). Having a .bank domain raises so many questions, such as, who owns and runs it? How do you decide the conditions to join? What about e-commerce providers - can they join? The credit card industry, domain name companies, the media and the police could work better together to educate the market and reduce the effect of fake websites, but .bank domains are not the answer.Dominic Monkhousemanaging director, 123-regKevin Rose rocks onWhile you may legitimately not like Diggnation, your dismissal of it shows limited exposure to the online world (Newly asked questions, December 7). Diggnation is one of the most popular tech podcasts and even received an industry award. As to the alleged incoherence of Rose's "performance" - it wasn't incoherent but authentic.Dominik LukesNorwichI think that the iPhone is overdue, because highly designed phones are already in fierce competition. The hype that has been accumulating is about to break. If Apple can deliver more than expected, the phone game will change forever. Especially if the operating system looks and feels like a Mac.http://adcentered.typepad.comClose Windows for good?If acclaimed Windows guru Jack Schofield cannot successfully protect his PC from malware and virus attacks (My PC's year of living dangerously online, December 7), what hope is there for the rest of us mortals? Shouldn't this be the final trigger to persuade sensible users to say goodbye forever to Windows, don't even think about Vista, and switch to Linux, or Mac OS X?Alistair KilgourEdinburghReading Mr Schofield's article, I noted the following passage: " ... anti-malware such as Microsoft Defender and Ewido (recently renamed AVG Anti-Spyware) may now be more important than antivirus software. Unless you're still a big enough twit to run unsolicited email attachments." But most people are twits - or, to put it another way, they don't have the educational standards in the subject under review as you and me. So they will continue to require protection against their own stupidity or ignorance.Tony OrmanPooleIn the pinkI've never really been a pink person (Technobile, December 7). I have never really liked the sickly pale pinks that are always associated with being female. At any rate, I have come to respect the colour pink in gadgetry if for no other reason than I can enjoy the use of power tools and any other gadgets done up in pink, and know that I will probably be the only one using it because a man won't be caught dead with it. If brown can be the new black, and white can be worn year-round, why not market to those women that have a hankering for their favourite colour in otherwise traditional black or silver? Money speaks loud and clear, and pink sells.Dellis FrankLos AngelesVideo phones not that badI'm into my third year with 3 Mobile now, and for good reason: all the other networks were offering far less for the same or greater cost (Technobile, November 30). This year, my call package has 50 inclusive minutes of video calls. Yes, it still suffers from lag. Yes, it's not perfect. But when it's inclusive, it's actually quite a pleasant feature in the context of my usage.Rob GreenwoodWilmslowCorrectionWe wrongly stated the price of the Nintendo Wii last week. It is &pound;179, not &pound;129. Thanks to those who pointed this out.
Just a quick one. In all the Wii vs PS3 fuss, some people have accidentally forgotten about Xbox 360. But it's still around and actually building itself a presence in Japan. As CVG reports, the country'sgame charts from December 4 to 10, shows Blue Dragon at number 4, while Zelda limps in at 17. Okay, this is probably down to the inavailability of Wii units, but let's not focus on that - 80,000 sales for a 360 game is pretty decent.
Watch out there may be spoilers ahead... Veronica Mars actress Kristen Bell has justgiven an interview to IGN TVin which she talks about her voice role in forthcoming next-gen adventure, Assassin's Creed. The game was thought to be a historical slice n' dicer, revolving around an assassin who gets caught up in a Holy Land conspiracy. But it turns out (as, in fact, the developer has alwayshinted) that this may only be part of the story.When asked about the game she replies..."It's sort of based on the research that's sort of happening now, about the fact that your genes might be able to hold memory. And you could argue semantics and say it's instinct, but how does a baby bird know to eat a worm, as opposed to a cockroach, if its parents don't show it? And it's about this science company trying to, Matrix-style, go into people's brains and find out an ancestor who used to be an assassin, and sort of locate who that person is. It's very, very cool, and I've seen all the graphics for it.Theories pointing in this direction have been floating around since E3. Rolling demos of the game have shown anomalies like visual glitches, suggesting that we're watching video footage (well, wearewatching video, but I mean video within video...), and also a few seconds of a thoroughlymodern settingwhere the words "access your genetic memory" can be seen.This is interesting stuff. Rarely do videogame developers care so much about story that they dripfeed information in this way. Indeed, most of the time we wouldn't care, as the narrative surprises just aren't that interesting when divorced from the gameplay. But this is quite a neat, cinematic idea.I hope this is a sign of things to come from next-gen development. We have been waiting a decade for developers to start thinking 'look, it's pointless boasting about graphics as everything looks amazing now. So let's just some up with a startling idea instead'. Maybe the time has come.Also, it's interesting that all this should come to light via an actress, rather than a dull old press release or PR mouthpiece.
Early in 2004 I met a man in a corner of a room in Cambridge where various wannabe companies were showing off their grand solutions to problems I didn't know we had. He was fiddling with a radio. The Reciva, as he dubbed it, looked very like any other radio: a tuning knob, various preset buttons, little two-line display. The simplicity was appealing amid the over-designed software on show in the rest of the room.But this was not any radio: this one tuned into Wi-Fi, and then found online radio stations. A simple, brilliant idea, I thought. And now that broadband is widespread (75% of UK internet users have an always-on connection) it's gratifying to see that some other people have picked up on this Cambridge company's work - including BT, which is now reselling the Reciva in this country under its own brand. For a company so often berated for being slow to grasp the value of broadband and the potential of the online world that creates, BT seems at last to be getting the message.A number of other companies - including Dixons, Bush and Morphy Richards - also sell versions of the Reciva, but BT is the biggest to resell it so far. In fact, BT spoke to Reciva back in 2003, so it has understood the possibility of wireless for some time. It's just not very agile, is all.The interface is still simple - a two-line backlit blue (why is it always blue?) LED display, and a few preset buttons. Getting onto my WEP-protected network wasn't the easiest task ever (I gave up until I realised I'd mistyped the 24-character alpha-numeric key) but once there, the radio part worked just like, well, a radio. And it insists on wirelessness: there is no Ethernet jack. BT is telling you that Wi-Fi is the way forward.But it's not just a radio. You can tune into stations around the world: I listened briefly to a talk radio station from Sydney, and was left pondering the meanings of "Skyline" (a car, apparently) and "skippy" (not a kangaroo; the non-Australian term for an Australian).You have to pick from the thousands of stations available - which makes the scroll wheel on top of the BT Reciva essential. When you load stations from Europe alone, you have a choice of dozens of countries, with 500 just for the UK. Even then when you dig down further - I tried Radio 4 - you get the choice of "live radio" or "stored". Here the Reciva really shines, since you can then choose from the spoken podcasts - such as the latest Archers episode, or weekly Omnibus, or Melvyn Bragg's In Our Time, or dozens of others.You can also store that point on the menu on a preset, though there are too few buttons to store all the stations one might want to listen to. In a world where people have thousands of stations and podcasts to choose from, do they really only have six favourites?You can also add particular sites (perhaps with podcasts) via the Reciva.com site once you've registered your player; "radio" is becoming what we make it, not what we're given.What the Reciva does well is to hide the complexity of finding internet radio stations. And it will also work as your personal radio station if you have a PC or other shared storage on your network, through its media player.At &pound;150, it's pricier than a DAB radio, but invaluable for those who want to sample the rest of the world, or get podcasted radio without the hassle of navigating the web.The Reciva offers a glimpse into a world where much more is shared over the Net, and wirelessly. That moved closer last week when Ofcom finally, finally assented to legalise mini FM transmitters (to beam music from your iPod to your car radio). Ah, the hectic pace of regulation - it's only taken three years to approve. For those stuck in traffic, I think there'll be an interesting new game to play: scan the FM band for "iPod" stations. The only sorrow will be losing them when the traffic clears.You might find an advert-free one coming from a car very literally near you. I tried out Sonnet's iFreq, and found it the simplest of these transmission systems I've encountered - no software, just a plug and lead. At &pound;50, it's not cheap. But sometimes simplicity merits the investment.charles.arthur@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Al Shugart is a name that probably won't mean anything to young whippersnappers, but back in the day, some of us connected our drives using the Shugart Interface, or sometimes SASI (Shugart Associates Systems Interface). Indeed, if you now use a SCSI (Small Computer Systems Interface) drive, that's basically the same thing, only standardised.The Shugart Interface was also used to connect floppy drives to the motherboard, with up to four drives on the same ribbon cable. IBM varied this for the IBM PC in 1981by putting a twist in the cable. That way it only supported two drives, so you got two connectors as well.I never met Al, but wish I had. Reporter and Silicon Valley historianMike Cassidy writes:The guy helped build the 305 RAMAC for IBM over on Notre Dame Avenue in San Jose. He founded Seagate Technologies and worked in a bar and as a commercial fisherman. He wore Hawaiian shirts and ran his dog, Ernest, for Congress. He wrote a book about it.ReutersandAPhave obituaries, though the most detailed appears to be theSan Jose Mercury News
Just spotted this over atOpenDemocracy.net, where Becky Hogge - a one-time contributor of this parish andnewly appointedexecutive director of the Open Rights Group - has interviewed Andrew Gowers, who recently conducted hisreviewinto Britain's intellectual property laws.A lot of people were surprised by the outcome of the Gowers' Review (many had gloomily assumed the worst) but the former FT editor says he had a task on his hands:My view is that for far too long intellectual property has been a priesthood on the one hand and a lobbyists' playground on the other.A priesthood in the sense that it is enacted by these quite funny men of a certain age in legal chambers, dusty files all around them and so forth.And a lobbyists' playground in the sense that the people who are IP holders, the people who say more IP protection is good are well-organised and well-focussed, articulate and well-financed. And the people who actually pay for it, in terms of consumers, are diffuse. So up until now it's been a one way argument."With that in mind, it's not surprising that the music industry didn't like his verdict. Worth a read.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
"A few weeks ago, Ponzi suggested that we could read our marriage vows from our respective laptops during the ceremony," writesubergeek Chris Pirillo. A couple of ThinkPads didn't seem to fit the bill, so "twoEo UMPC v7110256/40 (white) units were soon en route to our new home address".This could be the first recorded practical use for Origami-style UMPC (Ultra Mobile PC) Tablet PCs. ;-)Fortunately, Pirillo taped printed versions of the vows to the back of each unit....After I finished,Ponzi read her vows-- and as she was just about to finish, the UMPC suspended itself! Ponzi said that Windows crashed, the audience exploded in laughter, and I quickly flipped her tablet around so that she could refer to the printed copy.Still, it seems one guest liked the devices so much, he stole one....Our Defence of Catchy Headlines Rapid Response Unit adds: Yes, we know "suspends" isn't the same as "crashes" but apparently Ponzi used the C-word.
Every week we get far more letters and blog pingbacks than we have space to print. But this is the web! We can splurge! So here is the full text of the letters and own-blog comments we chose from this week.BANK ON .BANK?Deploying .bank domain names might be a headline grabber, but it's not a workable solution to eliminating phishing attacks. ("Can banks elude online sharks" 7 December 2006). Fraudsters purchasing domain names that closely resemble banks' website addresses is one of many examples of online fraud, such as the Nigerian 419 advance fee emails. The domain name companies all have a vested interest in reducing these online phishing attacks – they cost us revenue when they happen. Having a .bank domain raises so many questions, such as, who owns and runs it? (the banks?) How do you decide the conditions to join? What about e-commerce providers – can they join? Contrary to Richard Martin from [the banking group] APACS's claims, many domain name registration companies do have processes in place to reduce the likelihood of fake bank domains being registered, but it's also an education issue. We've all received emails from our bank, PayPal or eBay asking for credit card details, when these companies make a point of never doing this. Unfortunately many people are still taken in. The credit card industry, domain name companies, the media and the police could work better together to educate the market and reduce the effect of fake websites, but .bank domains are not the answer. Dominic Monkhouse, managing director, 123-regWII PRICEin this article you have mistyped the Wii's price - it's £50 cheaper. [Yes; thanks to all who pointed this out - Tech.Ed]IS KEVIN ROSE RIGHT ABOUT THE PHONE?I wonder where this sentence came from? "If you'd like to see the entire barely coherent performance where Rose lays this out, watch it here - though we advise having a beer to hand. It's the sort of stuff that gives podcasting a bad name and videoblogging a worse one: a camera pointed at two people swigging beer from behind laptops?" While you may legitimately not like Diggnation (I'm only a qualified fan myself) your dismissal of it shows limited exposure to the online world. Diggnation is one of the most popular tech podcasts (not a videoblog) and even received an industry award. As to the alleged incoherence of Rose's "performance" it was perfectly coherent within its format - it wasn't incoherent but authentic. Dominik Lukes, Norwich&gt;&gt; Personally I think that the iPhone is overdue, because highly designed phones are already in fierce competition. The hype that has been accumulating is about to break. If apple can deliver more than expected, the phone game will change forever. Especially if the operating system looks and feels like a Mac. The iPhone's position as uniquely Apple is great. Let's just hope the advertising does its magic once again. But please, no more silhouettes.http://adcentered.typepad.com/adcentered/2006/12/iphone_is_comin.htmlA YEAR WITHOUT ANTI-VIRUSReading Mr Schofield's article, I noted the following passage, quoted below: " ... anti-malware such as Microsoft Defender and Ewido (recently renamed AVG Anti-Spyware) may now be more important than antivirus software. Unless you're still a big enough twit to run unsolicited email attachments." But most people are twits, or, put it another way, they don't have the educational standards in the subject under review as the likes of you and me. So they will continue to require protection against their own stupidity or ignorance. I recommend a full integrated package such as Norton Internet Security 2007, and I am amazed that you didn't. Tony Orman, PooleIf acclaimed Windows guru Jack Schofield cannot successfully protect his PC from malware and virus attacks ("My PC's year of living dangerously online", Dec 7), what hope is there for the rest of us mortals? Shouldn't this be the final trigger to persuade sensible users everywhere to say goodbye for ever to Windows, don't even think about Vista, and switch straight way to Linux, or Mac OS X if you are lucky enough to have Apple hardware? Alistair Kilgour, EdinburghSUMMER TIME...Victor Keegan has bought into the annual lie perpetrated by RoSPA (Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents) - that year-round British Summer Time (BST) would reduce accidents involving motor vehicles. No, it wouldn't. Why? The Government's own statistics, compiled for the period 1968 to 1972 when the experiment was tried, show there was no effect. Yes, there were year-on-year differences, but no change to the underlying trends. This particular piece of hokum is trotted out annually by those who want to plunge us into mid-morning darkness in December, in the belief that one hour's extra afternoon light will boost tourism and 'having fun'. Between November and March? Oh please. Chris Rigby, Uffculme, Devon&gt;&gt; Let's continue to build on the strong foundation that the types of organisations Keegan talks about have laid but let's not ignore the important role that government - local, national and European - has in promoting citizen dialogue. We have to demand that they too now exist in a digital age and should be engaging with their citizens in digital ways if that is what their citizens want.http://www.informationpolitics.com/archives/citizen-democracy-opportunities-and-limits/PINK OR NOTI've never really been a pink person. I have never really liked the sickly pale pinks that are always associated with being female. Truth be told the pinks have been pushed on us through someone else's agenda. Pink, through the history of colour, was originally a male colour as it is a tint of red. Blue, even your bird's egg blue was a female colour as it represented loyalty. It was Americans that turned the tables on the colour scheme for no other reason than the almighty dollar. At any rate I have come to respect the colour pink in gadgetry if for no other reason than I can enjoy the use of power tools, technology and any other gadgets done up in pink and know that I will probably be the only one using it because a man won't be caught dead with it. If brown can be the new black, and white can be worn year-round, why not market to those women that have a hankering for their favourite colour in otherwise traditional black or silver? Money speaks loud and clear and pink sells. I think there will be quite a lot more pink and not because it's patronising but because it sells. I have also come to respect and like the colour pink through my two daughter's eyes but I'm still staying away from the pale sickly ones. I tend to gravitate toward the more robust hues. I find it can be said that pink is not a colour, it's an attitude! Dellis Frank, Los AngelesVIDEO CALLING (Technobile, November 30)I'm into my third year with 3 Mobile now, and for good reason: all the other networks were offering far less for the same or greater cost. This year, my call package has 50 inclusive minutes of video calls. I have therefore been able to use my allowance to call my girlfriend, who uses one of my old 3 handsets, on a year's free 3 contract (amazing - I was going to cancel the old contract and they said to keep hold of it and for £6 for the entire year they'd give me 1000 minutes and 100 texts). The best use of it came when I was at her parent's house and I was able to pass the phone around and she got to see and speak to her family, at a time when she needed cheering up. A lot of amusement was had and most of my monthly allowance was used up. Yes, it still suffers from lag. Yes, it's not perfect. But when it's inclusive, it's actually quite a pleasant feature in the context of my usage. I have had no success video-calling a Vodafone handset, as you pointed out. Surprise, surprise. As you say, the major setback to video calling is the lag, but there are others: low-light performance; feeling too self-conscious to use it on the street (impossible without a headset); the design of certain LCD screens combined with the position of the camera facing the caller i.e. some phones screens are designed to be best viewed at a tilt of say 25 - 35 degrees, otherwise you get the typical LCD distortion, but holding it at this angle means the front camera isn't aligned with my face so people can't see me properly! Overall, I think the feature has a use. It's just about performance, pricing, context and cultural acceptance. All of these things are changing with time. Rob Greenwood, Wilmslow
AsGreg pointed out, for this week's Technology section, Iwroteabout why I've fallen for virtual worlds. They're interactive, they're social, they gather like-minded people together and provide the foundations on which to build communities. They're creative, innovative and in some cases philosophically profound. Oh, and they can be fun as well.The key point I wanted to make is that the software titles released this year - admittedly at the end of the generational cycle (with nods to Xbox360) - didn't do it for me because they didn't make any leaps that engaged my fickle brain.So please convince me: why is interacting with the computer-generated AI from games released in 2006 better than interacting with human beings?
Remember the film of Nick Hornby's High Fidelity? In it, John Cusack pulls out a CD and, turning to his colleagues at Championship Vinyl, soberly states: "I will now sell four copies of The Three EPs by the Beta Band." One 30 second burst of said CD later and, sure enough, customers are bobbing their heads, a queue has formed and the cash register is ringing.Broadly speaking, this is how music recommendation used to work. A combination of record shop gurus, radio playlists, media taste makers and (perhaps most importantly) mates with cool record collections did most of the groundwork in determining what we, as consumers, would listen to.Now, of course, in the Long-Tailed bottom-up Web 2.0 world that - allegedly - thrust the Arctic Monkeys and Lily Allen into the limelight, the old model is supposedly being turned on its head. Certainly, a recent study by the web traffic measurement company Hitwise appears to confirm significant patterns in online consumer behaviour; in particular, that social networking sites such as MySpace and Bebo are now established as key vehicles to discovering new music.The intention of the survey, which tracked the movements of approximately 8.43m UK internet users in the week ending November 18, was to map the UK's online music ecosystem (consisting of some 3,436 websites) and illustrate the interconnectedness between music websites. In a nutshell, it would reveal where music-related traffic was coming from and where it was going to - tracing the complex click flow between major portals such as MySpace, Yahoo! and BBC Radio 1 right out to the peripheries (such as the homepages for Hanson and the McFly bassist, Dougie Poynter).Influential sitesThe resulting network maps are "a bit of a bird's nest", admits Heather Hopkins, Hitwise UK's director of research. But, she adds, "the social network sites, the online music retailers, the lyric sites, the download sites are all part of this music ecosystem. Some sites are obviously more influential than others, but to some extent they all rely on one another."In fact, the nest could have been messier still. Because Hitwise can only measure traffic travelling between websites, the network maps do not include activity from desktop applications such as iTunes - or, come to think of it, illegal P2P networks - while services classed as online radio stations were also off the radar.Nevertheless, despite being dominated by Google (a third of all visits to UK music websites start at the world's most popular search engine) the most intriguing aspect of Hitwise's analysis is the data returned from community and chat sites, which accounted for 10.4% of all visits to music websites. Of these, 61% were "downstream" - that is, coming - from MySpace, 10% from Bebo and 4% from YouTube.In that particular week, Hitwise recognised MySpace Music as the UK's number one music website. "That's the thing that really jumps off - the importance of social networks and how integrated they are into people's activity online in discovering and doing music-related activity," says Hopkins. The other key insight was the informed nature of music consumers' online search processes. "Rather than being driven by links, we're seeing a lot of traffic that's simply from people naturally navigating through the Web."Gateways to discoveryHow revealing such statistics are is perhaps open to question. With music and taste being so completely subjective, discovery and recommendation is a very complicated business, says Tim Grimsditch, strategy director at the music strategy agency Frukt. These days, he says, web-savvy consumers are likely to simply forage for information."You'll have a little session on MySpace and either it's fruitful or it's not. If it's not then you'll be off checking the Guardian music site or Channel 4 or whatever. It seems a bit simplistic to say that the order [of importance] is Google and then MySpace and so on." Grimsditch agrees that social networks have become key gateways to music discovery. This should not be viewed as a wholly new phenomenon, but rather an extension of traditional human recommendation relationships. So, instead of mates with cool record collections, users of MySpace and Bebo can access the knowledge of huge volumes of "friends" on a global scale."MySpace is interesting because it lets you learn about new bands through the people you like," says Grimsditch. "That's more like social recommendation, as opposed to a direct search. So I think that MySpace probably is quite important, and I know anecdotally of people who do find new bands through using it."The same basic principles are also evident in the growth of Last.fm, says Martin Stiksel, chief operating officer and cofounder of the service - a social network for music recommendation which can also work as an online radio station. It captures (or "scrobbles") the music played by its 15m users and connects them to others with similar tastes."In the real world, you go round to a friend's place and he or she plays you a tune and that's that. You trust their judgment because you know what else they listen to. If you know that some guy is into redneck rock'n'roll and you're into dance, then maybe you won't trust their judgement, but Last.fm will filter those people out."But it is not only fans who are benefiting from social recommendation. When they're not chasing them through the courts, record labels are also harnessing the power of community sites to propagate marketing campaigns - usually by creating free content that can be embedded into a fan's MySpace or Bebo page, and shared with other users on the network.A good example was the special Flash video player created for Kasabian's single Shoot The Runner. Hosted on the MySpace pages and blogs of more than 2,000 fans, the players garnered far more views collectively than the band's official website.For Daniel Ayers, head of digital marketing at Columbia Records, this is simply an acknowledgement that fans are shifting away from artists' websites. "The rationale is that fans don't come to us any more," he says. "They've got their own sites where they want to stay and do their talking."Having rolled out this strategy across the label, the obvious next step, says Ayers, is to get fans to do the thing the label values - sell content. "We've got all these people acting as ambassadors for our artists and so, in exactly the same way as Amazon has an affiliate sales scheme, we could, theoretically, start putting links to buy whatever the product is into the player. And we then make everyone using them an affiliate and give them a cut."A variation on this concept of "super-distribution" - where, rather than search for the music, the music will find you - is being trialled by EMI with the recently-launched eListeningpost service. This system allows fans to email "secure" tracks or video to their friends. These can be played up to five times before being forwarded to the next user, with the option of buying directly from the label or artist.Rumours abound that superdistribution may feature as part of a commission-based strategy for Microsoft's Zune - rewarding those who share content with Zune Marketplace Points.Of course, while we wait for this viral evolution, the concept of top-down recommendation will not be relegated completely. Indeed, for the cash-rich time-poor consumer, one side effect of having an inbox overloaded with new music may well be a return to more trusted and familiar filters.Certainly, Nokia's Recommenders service, which collates tips from over 40 independent record shops worldwide, couldn't be more traditional; while, with over 30 years' retail experience and plans to migrate its Album Club subscription service online in 2007, the new MP3 store of Rough Trade records in London has made staff recommendations a key USP."We've built our reputation as a destination for introducing new music on the merits of the music alone, and for our ability to pluck out the gems and pass them on," says shop co-director Stephen Godfrey. "We want to bring some of that treasure trove feel, where people come into the shop for one thing, but leave with four things that they've never heard of. That's the authority of recommendations we provide and recognition that people like to discover things in a slightly more human way."Evidence, perhaps, that nothing beats the personal touch. And while social networks are opening the floodgates to new music, the spirit of Nick Hornby will probably live on for some time yet.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Technology Guardian: Unlike most of the people I talk to, you've been in this business longer than I have!Jeff Raikes:[Laughs] I started on VisiCalc in June of 1980 - I actually worked for Atari briefly, when I was finishing up college. I ended up spending more in the company store than I made in income, so it's probably a good thing I moved on. Atari at that time was owned by Warner, so you could buy all the music albums for like a dollar.TG: Did you write the 1985 memo that Bill Gates sent to Apple, saying you ought to license Mac OS to make it an industry standard.(scripting.com/specials)JR:I did. It's funny, there's a great irony in that memo in that I was absolutely sincere in wanting the Macintosh to succeed, because that was the heart of our applications business at the time. And Apple somehow decided it was a devious plot and that I was the devil.The irony is that I think if they'd taken the advice in the memo, we'd probably have ended up seeing the Mac be more successful and Windows perhaps not quite as successful, so I guess it all worked out OK in the end!TG: And you're still in applications, which is amazing after all these years.JR:It's amazing to see how the opportunity has grown. If in 1981 we'd said that there would be 500m people using Microsoft Office tools, people would have thought we were nuts. Yet today, I look at the landscape, at the broad opportunities of impacting how people find, use and share information; at the explosion of content, and how people manage content; at software as a service to enhance the information work experience. I'm amazed at how much opportunity I had, and how much there is.TG: Is that 500m paid up users?JR:Mmm, no, that's opportunity, Jack!TG: How do you think the take-up of the new Office ribbon interface will go?JR:If we were to go by the research - and of course that doesn't always bear out in the market - it would be extremely positive. People want a results-oriented interface, they want to get things done, and the research that we put into designing the user experience was to address that issue, to help folks get to more capability and get things done faster and easier.Then there's Office SharePoint Server, which takes the server side to a new level. Bill [Gates] and I would draw the analogy to when we put together the Office productivity suite in the late 80s - we think Office SharePoint Server will in a few years be recognised as a similarly important strategic initiative. We're bringing together the collaboration, the document libraries, integrated workflow, electronic forms, business intelligence, content management, the portal capability, and having the opportunity to build on it. Bringing that platform together is important.In fact, SharePoint is perhaps the fastest growth business in the history of our company, we went from zero to $500m in three years.TG: Are you doing anything with the hosted online version of Office 2003, apart from watching it disappear?JR:Today, I don't get a lot of interest in running Word over the internet. Bandwidth is precious, and most people have Office. Nobody's crystal ball is perfect, but I think in a few years those who say software is dead will go the way of those people who said PCs were dead and network computing was the thing.People get very focused on trying to undermine Microsoft and they don't get very focused on the customer. You have all this horsepower at your fingertips, whether it's your PC, laptop or mobile device, and you have all that horsepower in the cloud. Why not use the combination of the horsepower to optimise the experience? Do I really want to run the Word bits over my network connection, or do I want to use it to share and collaborate and so on?At the end of the day, my point of view is give the customer the choice. Sell them on the value of Exchange as a messaging system and let them choose if they want it on the premises or have someone run it for them as a service.TG: What about web-based alternatives to Office? Is the online element part of your empire or something that someone else is looking after?JR:It's certainly something that's very "top of mind" for me. It's our responsibility to make sure that our customers have access to those services as part of their use of Office tools. It's about software and services, as opposed to services versus software.TG: I wondered about that because Office is a blockbuster, but it does take a while to do things compared to the speed at which things happen on the web. Look at YouTube!JRThat's a fair point. You know, for better or for worse - and it's probably both - the core of what we do with Office probably doesn't have that characteristic, even in a web context. There are billions of documents out there, and people want tools that are compatible with billions of documents, and that have the functionality to allow people to do what they want to do. Things such as Google Docs - there are certainly some nice elements, but if you're a student and you need to do a paper that requires footnotes, well, good luck! [Laughs]That's not to say they won't get better, but I try and temper my reaction to these things. In the same way I think our competitors get confused by focusing on trying to undermine us, instead of delivering customer value, I think we could get confused if we overreact to what might be the trend. The thing to do is to step back and say, "What is it that customers really want to do?" If you can make those predictions then you can end up with a winning business.TG: Who's driving the XML file formats, customers or Microsoft?JR:It's a combination. When I meet with governments, I recognise there's a legitimate interest in making sure that the way we store information is done on a long term basis. Some people say, "Hey, there's a lot of our intellectual property in there and you're opening that up for cloning." Well, we did. We decided, I decided, we needed to go forward and make these part of a standards body and address that interest.
I want to get a new PC, whilst if possible avoiding "lock in" to suppliers of hardware or software. I was thinking of a Linux system, but I have some DOS and Windows programs I'd like to retain, and I'm too short of time and brainpower to become technically involved. Peter DavisA Windows machine is still your best bet, as this gives you by far the widest choice of hardware and software, and it's much the cheapest way to get a copy of Windows. In most cases, the price has been pared to a minimum by not supplying discs or manuals, and by supplying copies that are tied to a specific PC. (According to the licence agreement, you cannot legally use that copy of Windows on a different PC, and you cannot sell it separately from the original PC.)Having got a Windows PC to run your existing software, you can then install your Linux distro of choice, such as Ubuntu (http://www.ubuntu.com/), for no extra charge. Although this will not include support, at least you will be in fairly well known territory.Alternatively, you might be able to find an acceptable PC running a version of Linux you want, and you might be able to get your DOS and Windows programs running via something like Wine (http://www.winehq.com/), but this approach requires more effort and promises few if any cost savings. It could be a rewarding hobby, but you say you don't want to become technically involved and have other uses for your time.
I am trying to access a site with a backward slash in the address and IE7 keeps autocorrecting it. Judy RocheThere are alternative ways to enter problematic and reserved characters in web addresses. The one you are most likely to see is %20, which is used to replace a space. For the \ character, you can substitute %5C, and for the / character, %2F. There is a list of common escape characters athttp://www.contractwebdevelopment.com/url-escape-characters
My son and his friends use my PC to surf all sorts of websites. Is it possible to remove traces of where they have been without buying a specific program to do the job? Brian LobellIf people are using the same PC, it's best if they log on using different accounts. Otherwise, the free "crap cleaner" CCleaner (http://www.ccleaner.com/) does a pretty good job of removing tracks such as the browser history, cookies, autocomplete entries and, if necessary, the index.dat file.
I have just signed up to AOL in France and my email is on their browser. How can I change it to Outlook Express? Mickey ManthaYou can use Outlook Express and other mail software with AOL if you create an account with the correct settings. AOL's documentation for France (athttp://postmaster.aol.fr/imap/) suggestsimap.fr.aol.comfor incoming mail, using the default port 143, andsmtp.fr.aol.comfor outgoing mail using port 587.Theunofficial AOL email FAQalso has advice and settings for some other countries.For AOL's step-by-step guide to using Outlook Express 6, seehttp://postmaster.info.aol.com/imap/express.htmlIncidentally, port 587 is now the preferred Message Submission Port for authenticated email (seeRFC2476) rather than port 25. This could help reduce spam.
It looks as though 2007 will be the year when the mobile phone starts to discover its true potential. It has, of course, been extraordinarily successful already. There are more than 2bn users and the device has become so indispensable, so personal, that 60% of users take it to bed and 80% of spouses or partners don't share it with each other. No other consumer product is like that. Yet for all its amazing potential, most of us still use the phone for the same three tasks: voice, text and as an alarm clock.All that could now change as the mobile operators awake from a long sleep and companies providing mobile content take advantage of the so-called 2.0 revolution of user-empowered web services tailor made for the mobile. This can already be seen in the new Nokia 73, as customised by 3, which takes smart phones to a new plane.What impressed me most was not the Carl Zeiss camera (excellent though it is), nor the free phone calls through the internet via Skype, nor the one-click access to Yahoo and eBay; it was the link with a set-top device called Slingbox. It is difficult to get the measure of this device without seeing it in action. Slingbox, amazingly, enables you to watch surprisingly high-resolution television on your mobile phone anywhere on 3's network.The signals come not from a national transmitter but from a Slingbox installed on your TV set at home that redirects signals across the internet. You can watch BBC programmes, Freeview or Sky channels anywhere in the world as long as you are on a "3" 3G network - though other operators will doubtless follow suit.It was easily the best television picture I have seen on a mobile; that for BBC 2 was better than the reception we get on our main set at home. You can program your TV set remotely and watch a channel different from that being viewed at home. I'm converted. The same technology enables you to stream music from your own collection on your home PC (though not yet Macs). Sadly, you can't stream from an iTunes collection because of Apple's digital rights management policies.This phone dispels two longstanding gripes with mobile phone operators. First, data hoarding. The cost works out at around &pound;35 a month for an "all you can eat" tariff including all television and data traffic (plus &pound;99 for the Slingbox). That is not unreasonable.Like many others, I stopped using the phone as an internet modem because of the unknown charges that build up when you use Google or a photo hosting site: you might get data-heavy images that will be downloaded whether you want them or not. That's why mobile data traffic, which should have exploded with the coming of 3G technology, has been almost static for several years.Second, the phone passes the usability test: it's only two or three clicks (depending where the Slingbox icon is located on your phone) and you are watching a TV programme.The downside? I have only had it a few days, but the picture did freeze occasionally (presumably a coverage problem) and there was pixellation on some channels. My set-top box was installed by 3, so I don't know how complicated it would have been on my own. Battery life is clearly going to be a problem if you watch television for any length of time; but maybe we will just have to get used to carrying spare batteries around.If phones keep on improving like this then in three or four years, when technology has improved enough to have a true "broadband" experience anywhere, there will be no stopping them. All of the new social networking sites - from YouTube to MySpace - are hosted on the internet so can be accessed directly by phone wherever you are. So why rush back to your computer at home? Mobilise yourself: the revolution is just beginning.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
This week's interview, in the printedGuardian Technology section, is with Jeff Raikes, president of the Microsoft Business Division, and "a member of the company's Senior Leadership Team" with Bill Gates and Steve Ballmer. Obviously we don't have room to print more than 3,000 words, even if you have time to read it. However, if you do want more, what follows is an almost complete transcript. You don't often get Microsoft's most senior guys one-on-one, and they are rarely as forthcoming as Raikes was this time....For searches: the topics covered include Office Genuine Advantage (piracy), the Office 2007 user interface (the ribbon), SharePoint Server, hosted Office and online applications, the new XML file formats, and the Office bundles....To set the scene, it's around 8.20am at the QEII Conference Centre in London, where Microsoft is holding a conference for software partners. I'm setting up my tape, and one of the PRs is getting us cups of coffee. I'm telling Raikes that I used to run VisiCalc on an Apple II, so I remember he joined Microsoft from Apple in 1981. "Unlike most of the people I talk to nowadays, you've been in this business longer than I have!"Jeff Raikes:[Laughs] I started on VisiCalc in June of 1980, I actually worked for Atari briefly, when I was finishing up college. I ended up spending more in the company store than I made in income, so it's probably a good thing I moved on. Atari at that time was owned by Warner, so you could buy all the music albums for like a dollar, and games machines for all my friends.Jack Schofield:Before we get going, did you write the Gates memo?JR:Which memo are you referring to?JS:The 1985 memo that Bill Gates sent to Apple, saying "you ought to license Mac OS to make it an industry standard." (http://www.scripting.com/specials/gatesLetter/text.html)JR:I did. It's funny, there's a great irony in that memo, in that I was absolutely sincere in wanting the Macintosh to succeed, because that was the heart of our applications business at the time. And Apple somehow decided it was a devious plot and that I was the devil....The irony is that I think if they'd taken the advice in the memo, we'd probably have ended up seeing the Mac be more successful and Windows perhaps not quite as successful, so I guess it all worked out OK in the end!JS:It was good advice: I always thought you were right!JR:Thankyou. I always thought it was a good memo, too, but if nobody did anything about it then perhaps it wasn't so good...JS:And you're still in applications, which is amazing after all these years.JR:It's amazing to see how much the opportunity has grown. If in 1981 we'd said that there would be 500 million people using Microsoft Office tools, people would have thought we were nuts. Yet today, I look at the landscape, at the broad opportunities of impacting how people find, use and share information, how they work together in a world where there's a lot of pressure; at the explosion of content, and how people manage content. And on the horizon, there's voice over IP and Unified Communications, and business intelligence, and software as a service to enhance the information work experience. So I look at it today, and I'm amazed at how much opportunity I had, and how much there is.I've done different roles -- I spent eight or nine years with Steve Ballmer as we were building the worldwide sales and marketing organisation -- and when I returned to Office in 2000, some people thought there's not that much more to do. Quite the contrary, there was an incredible amount to do!JS:Is that 500 million paid up users?JR:Mmm, mmm, no, that's opportunity, Jack! [Laughs]JS:Now you're getting the equivalent of Windows Genuine Advantage [piracy protection], which is going to be fun.JR:We do have Office Genuine Advantage now, but it's not implemented exactly the same. Encouraging licensing is an important activity, but it's one of those things where you have to strike the right balance. We want to encourage usage of our software, and we want to make sure that those people who have licensed the software appropriately have a good experience.I've lived on this copy protection thing since the 1980s, and it could be very obtrusive, so you have to strike the right balance. Office Genuine Advantage is a good approach in that it incents people to want to be licensed.JS:What about your approach to licensing the ribbon from the Office 2007 user interface? What would happen if OpenOffice.org did a knock-off of Office 2007?JR:Well, we'd just have to see. We have a certain responsibility to protect our intellectual property, and we try to do that in ways that are good for our customers and of course for our shareholders. So we've come up with a licensing programme [for the ribbon] and we'll see what others want to do. We have made no decisions yet as to exactly what we might do in a set of various scenarios.JS:You seem to be offering to license it to people who write applications and utilities that support Office but not ones that are competing with Office....JR:That's right.JS:There's possibly a fuzzy line there....JR:That's true, it can be. That's why I say there's a lot to come, to understand what people's interests are and what they may wish to do.JS:How do you think the take-up of the ribbon is going to go?JR:If we were to go by the research -- and of course that doesn't always bear out in the market -- it would be extremely positive. If you poll Office users, there's a couple of things that really stand out. One is that they really see that Office is very important to what they do in their jobs, so they care a lot about it. The second thing is that they'd like to be able to do even more. They recognise there's a lot of capability in the product that they're not getting to today. So the research that we put into designing the user experience was to address that issue: to help folks get to more capability and get things done faster and easier. Our research shows they can use 65% fewer keystrokes and less mouse-travel.People want a results-oriented interface: they want to get things done. So that's the most notable step with Office 2007.Now there's Office SharePoint Server, which takes the server side to a new level. Bill and I would draw the analogy to when we put together the Office productivity suite in the late 80s: we think Office SharePoint Server will in a few years be recognised as a similarly important strategic initiative. We're bringing together the collaboration, the document libraries, integrated workflow, electronic forms, business intelligence, content management, the portal capability, and having the opportunity to build on it. Bringing that platform together is important.JS:But how do you promulgate it? SharePoint is more or less confined to large corporations, except for Office Live, and you don't even say that that's based on SharePoint.JR:Office Live will be a way for people to have access to it quite broadly, both small businesses and individual Office users. In fact, SharePoint is perhaps the fastest growth business in the history of our company: we went from zero to $500 million in three years.JS:Why isn't it talked about as part of the big web conversation, along with wikis and blogs and so on?JR:Well, of course, SharePoint 2007 does have support for blogs and wikis, is that what you mean? I'm sorry, I may not be following your question....JS:Well, when you created Office, it wasn't a corporate sale, it was part of the mass market, part of the conversation between ordinary users. Now SharePoint is a corporate sale, but it isn't part of it the wider market conversation about blogs and wikis, Apache, MySQL and so on.JR:Today, not as much as we would like ... and I think that's an opportunity. As you say, SharePoint is one of the foundations of Office Live, and we have chosen to build Office Live in a progression. We've started with small businesses, but I think that as you recognise -- and the broad market doesn't, yet -- there's certainly the opportunity to open that up to anybody who does information work and anybody who uses Office tools and wants to extend that. So I think that's a great opportunity.JS:Are you doing anything with hosted Office, apart from watching it disappear?JR:Today, I don't get a lot of interest in running Word over the internet. Bandwidth is precious, and most people have Office. Nobody's crystal ball is perfect, but I think in a few years those who say software is dead will go the way of those people who said PCs were dead and network computing was the thing.The reason is, people get very focused in on trying to undermine Microsoft and they don't get very focused in on thecustomer. You have all this horsepower at your fingertips, whether it's your PC or your laptop or your mobile device, and you have all that horsepower in the cloud. Why not use the combination of the horsepower in order to optimise the experience. Do I really want to run the Word bits over my network connection, or do I want to use it to store contents, to have access to them anywhere, to share and collaborate and so on. It's the combination....JS:It's noticeable with Office 2007 that you don't always know which things are on the server and which are on your PC, so ultimately the two things blend together....JR:I think it's important to think about what are the scenarios that will really enhance and extend information work.JS:You did do Office 2003 as a hosted online service, as part of the Microsoft.Net launch....JR:People can do that, but most people already have the software on their computers, so there isn't that big a demand for that today. I think Exchange is a platform that will more rapidly move to a service form than Office client applications, where most of the time you want to optimise the power at your fingertips. Or at least that would be my prediction. I think the key strategy is to be able to use the combination.JS:Hosted Exchange hasn't got a lot of traction, has it?JR:I think it's a market that's still in its early stage. I would also say that hosted Exchange has done as well as any hosted business email system. So the question is, to what extent will businesses want to access these things online? Some of my colleagues think that, in 10 years, no companies will have their own Exchange servers. I'm not quite that aggressive!I do believe, though, that many companies will look to hosted Exchange, hosted SharePoint.... I think we'll see more and more of those infrastructure elements. And frankly, Jack, I'll make sure that the people who are developing our servers are thinking of hosted services, which means they have to think through the technical issues. We are going to make sure we have service thinking integrated throughout our software.At the end of the day, my point of view is: give the customer the choice. Sell them on the value of Exchange as a messaging system and let them choose whether they want it on the premises or have someone run it for them as a service.JS:What about web-based alternatives such as ThinkFree, which offers a sort of Office online? Is that part of your bailliewick?JR:There are a number of those web productivity ideas out there. As I said, the thing that will probably trip people up is they'll get focussed on the idea that that's a replacement for the Office suite, when what's most interesting are the new and unique scenarios that you can get by having that capability. But then, it's our responsibility to make sure that our customers have access to those services as part of their use of Office tools. It's about softwareandservices, as opposed to services versus software.JS:I wondered if that online element was part of your empire or something that someone else was looking after....JR:It's certainly something that's very top of mind of mind for me....JS:And I wondered that because Office is a blockbuster, but it does take a while to do things compared to the speed at which things happen on the web. Look at YouTube!JR:That's a fair point. You know, for better or for worse -- and it's probably both -- the core of what we do with Office probably doesn't have that characteristic, even in a web context. There are billions of documents out there, and people want tools that are compatible with billions of documents, and that have the functionality to allow people to do what they want to do. Things such as Google Docs, there are certainly some nice elements, but if you're a student and you need to do a paper that requires footnotes, well, good luck! [Laughs]That's not to say they won't get better, but I try and temper my reaction to these things. In the same way I think our competitors get confused by focusing on trying to undermine us, instead of delivering customer value, I think we could get confused if we overreact to what might be the trend. The thing to do is to step back and say: "What is it that customers really want to do?" They may not be doing it today, and they might not know what they want to do, and they don't know the technology well enough to know what's possible, which is what makes this business kind of fun. But if you can make those predictions then you can end up with a winning business.As an example, what happened with Mac Excel in 1985 was that we had a programmer called Steve Hazelrig who was doing the printing code. Laser printers were expensive then, and ours was way down the hall, so Steve wrote a little routine that put an image of the page up on the screen, with a magnifying glass so he could examine every pixel to make sure he had an accurate rendering of the page. The program manager Jake Blumenthal came down the hall and said: "Wow, that would be a great feature." That's how Print Preview made it into all of our products: no customer ever asked for it.So the trick is to understand the things people want to do, and they may not know to ask for them, but the opportunity is there. So I think it's more important to understand what customers really want to do, and to make sure we deliver on that.JS:Who's driving XML file formats? Is that customers or is it Microsoft?JR:It's a combination: there are actually multiple motivations. First of all, there's the obvious reason: that you can increase the interoperability with file formats by using XML. We have customers who are very excited by the ability to extract information from Open XML formats and use that as part of their applications. But frankly, we would say that we feel document binaries are outliving their usefulness. They're now a source of security threats, in the sense that it's the new frontier for trying to attack computing infrastructures. And we can have more resilient file formats with XML.People forget that we had rtf, and we had sylk, and those were "open formats" that people didn't really use that much because they were less performant. OK, so we're now in a different era where we can use XML as the foundation, get the benefits of interoperability, and have it be performant. It can actually be smaller footprint, and it's a much better structure than what we had before.And, frankly, we've had to step up to the recognition that putting these formats with an open standards group is a good thing: it's a good thing for Microsoft, and it's a good thing for society. When I meet with governments, I recognise there's a legitimate interest in making sure that the way we store information is done on a long term basis. I fully support that. Some people say, "Hey, there's a lot of our intellectual property in there and you're opening that up for cloning." Well, we did. We decided. I decided. We needed to go forward and make these part of a standards body and address that interest.JS:Do you foresee a mass migration of the installed base to the new formats?JR:I don't. I wish I did -- I think it would be a good thing -- but I just think that's very hard. I think we have to do an excellent job of supporting compatibility, and with Office 2003, we download the compatibility packs so that you can read and write the XML formats. And we're going to work with third parties on ODF [Open Document Format] converters. But again, given your deeper knowledge, you probably recognise that when you don't have [a feature] in your format, well, how does that work? The idea that somehow everybody is going to be able to use ODF for these things, well, let's just say they've got a lot of work to do![PR says one last question, we have to go....]JS:Have you got in a bit of a rut with Office bundles, now you have SharePoint and OneNote and so on. The operating system side have had a pretty good hit with the Small Business Server, SBS. Now you've got 19 products in Office....JR:Maybe 22! [Laughs] We've got Small Business Office and it's one of our big products, but its primary distribution vehicle is with the hardware manufacturers and the reseller channel. That's been hugely successful. One of the key changes that we made was to give it small business specific value, with things like Contact Manager. For many businesses, Publisher is the number two used application because they use it as their sales and marketing vehicle.But we do have Office Professional Plus and Enterprise, which gives people OneNote and Groove, not just Standard and Professional. In the retail market there's an all-in-one type package, like Vista Ultimate, but the high volume at retail is our new Home and Student Edition, at a very attractive price. We used to think of that as our Student and Teacher Edition.JS:Could you throw SharePoint Server into that? [Laughs]JR:I'd really like to include some kind of subscription to Office Live: we've looked at doing that and we probably will do that some time in the future. That's one of the beauties of software as a service: it does give us a way to complement the core client applications.[Getting up to leave]Thanks very much. It's fun to reflect on history a little bit...The Raikes empireThe Information Worker Group includes: Access, Business Intelligence Applications, Data Analyzer, Excel, FrontPage, Groove, InfoPath, Live Meeting, Natural Language Processing, Office Live, Microsoft Office System, Office Online, OneNote, Outlook, PowerPoint, Project, Publisher, SharePoint, Visio, and Word.Business Solutions includes: Microsoft Dynamics, Supply Chain Management, Customer Relationship Management, Financial Management, Microsoft Dynamics AX, Great Plains, Microsoft Dynamics NAV, Enterprise Reporting, Retail Management, Small Business Products, Microsoft Small Business Financials, Microsoft Dynamics SL, Business Contact Manager, Exchange Server and Speech Server.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Saturday December 16 2006Constantinos Michael's name was accidentally reversed as Michael Constantinos in the article below.You mean, has it peaked and are we all eventually going to stop buying music online, if current trends continue? No, on both counts.Despite the release of a study by Josh Bernoff of Forrester Research which suggests that the number of purchases per iPod sold of songs from Apple's iTunes Store (for it's no longer only music; there are films, TV episodes and music videos there too) are not accelerating, there are some indicators that there's still room at the top for digital music.After analysing thousands of credit and debit card transactions of 4,000 people (a statistically valid sample) over 27 months, Bernoff concluded that people do not, over time, accelerate their purchase of online music. Instead, the number of songs sold per iPod (which might be a good approximation - although you don't need an iPod to buy from the iTunes Store) has held steady, averaging about 20 per player."The iPod is not necessarily a machine for generating revenue for the music industry," Bernoff noted in his report. "If iPod owners continued to purchase music tracks throughout the lifetime of their ownership, one would expect to see iTunes sales growing at a faster rate than iPods," he concluded.The problem with his negative conclusion is that accelerating growth in downloads does seem to be what's happening. Says who? Says Constantinos Michael, a graduate at Johns Hopkins university, who has graphed the growth of music downloads from the iTunes Store using publicly-available data from Apple. It shows a remarkable exponential trend (seehttp://cmichae.acm.jhu.edu). His estimates, made in February, suggest that Apple will pass the 2bn songs mark some time next February, and that the announcement of 1.5bn downloads, made in September, was "pretty much on schedule".But Bernoff says sales from the store have slowed since January. Can both be right? Perhaps. January is traditionally a time when downloads from the store leap, because everyone is taking advantage of the iTunes gift vouchers that they got for Christmas. Thus downloads (from all music sites) first exceeded physical singles sales in the last week of 2004 - the end of the first year that the iTunes Music Store (as it was) was open in the UK. Expect more of the same this year; for 2006 also saw the first song to reach No.1 purely through digital downloads (Gnarls Barkley's Crazy).But Bernoff's analysis couldn't spot voucher purchases, which bump up the January downloads volume. That makes the rest of the year look quieter, followed by a leap at the end as more people get broadband and vouchers, and download songs. Recorded music is a seasonal business, as the rash of TV adverts for dire "Best Of" CDs indicates.The iTunes Store isn't going away, and nor are its customers. But Bernoff's research does indicate consumer reluctance to commit to downloads. Perhaps that's because one can often buy the physical CD for the same, or even less, on Amazon than the iTunes Store. In which case the problem is simply one of price. But that's not a problem for Apple - it's one for the record labels. Will they ease their pricing to encourage us online? The signs, it must be said, aren't encouraging.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
More intra-blogging fun and games, as the knock-on reaction from criticisms over the Le Web 3 conference spreads further (earlier postshere,hereand from MediaGuardian's Jemima Kisshere).Now, listen closely. Last night it seems thatSam Sethi, who set up TCUK, "parted ways" with the company after an argument with founderMike Arrington. The reason? It seems that Arrington wasn't happy about a thread criticising Le Web which Sethi wrote, and a response which apparently came from conference organiserLoic Le Meurpublicly calling Sethi an "arsehole" - and particuarly Sethi's subsequentdecision to highlight it.Techcrunch is listed as a partner for the Le Web event, though apparently there was no financial arrangement. So when Loic Le Meur asked Arrington for the rude comment to be redacted, it was just apersonal favour. But instead of following instructions to do so, Sethi chose not to. It's the battle between an editor and his boss, and even using it to publicise his own events would hardly count as unethical behaviour (as Arrington claims) - merely refusing to capitulate to favours your boss is dishing out and acting competitively.Most editors-in-chief would revel in their staff being victimised, not bring the curtains down on them.Still Arrington - who holds the executive powers - deemed it a step too far, axed Sethi ("he basically fired himself", ie was sacked) and put the blogon holdat the same time. Where all that leavesMike Butcher, who had recently been appointed as co-editor of the site, is yet to be seen.It's just the latest piece ofweird behaviourfrom Arrington, who recently accused our media columnistRafat Aliand the ever-troubledDave Winer.The whole episode is frankly bizarre, and the chances are it has killed off any chance of creating a viable Techcrunch community in Britain - it's certainly destroyed my interest. ExpectValleywag, obsessed as it is with Arrington's every cough and sneeze, to have a field day on this one.So long Techcrunch UK.
Do you like fridge magnets? A new technology being developed by British scientists could put an even bigger one inside your refrigerator. Once Karl Sandeman, a physicist at Cambridge University, has helped resolve the practical issues, the cooling power of the 21st century fridge will come from a 19th century discovery - and it promises to cut energy consumption by 40% and save the ozone layer.The key is a material that cools when it is put in a magnetic field. The idea - which is ambitious, but feasible - is to replace the present system used by refrigerators the world over. Your kitchen fridge has a compressor, which turns a gas into a liquid, releasing heat (which you'll feel at the back of the fridge). The liquid is then pumped round the inside walls of the fridge, where it draws heat from the contents; that turns it into a gas, which is pumped on to the compressor.But what if you could replace the fluid with a magnet? "The amazing thing about magnetism is that it's actually a quantum mechanical phenomenon," says Sandeman. "It's all down to something mysterious called spin. The electrons act almost like a miniature bar magnet."Temperature changeAs a quantum mechanical property of the electron, spin is usually taken to mean its rotational momentum (like the Earth rotating around its axis). That momentum - described as "up" or "down" - creates a tiny magnetic field. When all the electrons in a material spin in the same way, their fields combine to create what we perceive as magnetism. However, an iron magnet heated to 700C will "disorder" and lose its powers, known as a magnetic phase transition.In 1881, the German physicist Emil Warburg put a block of iron into a strong magnetic field and found it increased very slightly in temperature. Scientists now know the electrons pivot in the field to align at a lower energy state, releasing surplus energy. The metal warms up in what's known as the magnetocaloric effect, which is greatest near the magnetic phase transition temperature."If you can suddenly alter the degree of ordering of all these little spins, then you get a large response," says Sandeman. For iron at room temperature, the response is just 0.1C. Some materials cool in a magnetic field, a property that's used in low temperature research. Finding the right room temperature material is the key to a magnetic fridge, where the cooling power is derived from a positive magnetocaloric effect coupled to heat exchange.One material works nicely: the element gadolinium (Gd). It's a silvery-white metal that's strongly attracted by a magnet, has a magnetic disordering temperature of 20C, and a giant magnetocaloric effect of several degrees. A waste product from permanent magnet manufacture, gadolinium costs around &pound;100 per kg; a magnetic fridge would use 0.15kg. Sandeman's current research, however, is looking at other possibilities."The quest is to get away from these expensive rare earth materials and look for magnetic materials which have a phase transition at room temperature," says Sandeman, whose research job at Cambridge University is funded by the Royal Society. He also works with Professor Derek Fray, a leading expert in materials chemistry. "What I'm actually working with is an alloy of two magnetic materials, cobalt and manganese," says Sandeman.When these elements are mixed with non-magnetic "spacers" like silicon, the cost falls to &pound;5 per kg. Strangely, his latest experimental alloy has a negative magnetocaloric effect - it cools in a magnetic field. This could also be harnessed for fridges through a heat exchange process.A Cambridge University spin-out company, Camfridge Ltd, has built two prototype magnetic fridges that use gadolinium. While the latest one is little more than fridge innards, the team - which includes Sandeman as chief scientific officer, Fray and experienced business people - is striving to develop the revolutionary effect for commercial exploitation in fridges and, perhaps, air conditioning."It's a sea change in thinking," says Sandeman. "It never ceases to amaze me how you can take a block of this stuff and stick it into a [magnetic] field. The prototype is operational and has achieved a large temperature span."A magnetic fridge works like this. Powdered gadolinium (with coarse grains for good heat transfer qualities) is put into a magnetic field. It heats up as the randomly ordered magnetic moments - the electrons with spin - are aligned, or "ordered", by the field. The newly-acquired heat - a boost of between 2-5C, depending on the gadolinium's original temperature - is removed by a circulating fluid, like a conventional fridge.The magnetic field is removed and the gadolinium cools below its starting temperature as the electrons resume their previously disordered state. Heat from the system to be cooled - your fridge interior - can then be transferred to the now cooler metal. Then all you do is endlessly repeat. But unlike conventional fridges, which need very toxic chemicals, the only liquid needed for heat transfer is water, alcohol or, more likely, antifreeze.Cutting energy useA more advanced prototype next year will optimally bring together three elements - temperature span, cooling power and efficiency - along with a faster motor. This will allow less gadolinium to be used with a smaller magnet, saving materials costs. Camfridge's managing director, Neil Wilson, says: "In terms of technical specification, that prototype will get us to a domestic fridge. Commercial manufacturers have hit the wall; there is not much more they can do. We're wanting to cut the energy use by half."Professor Stephen Blundell, of Oxford University, also understands the issues well, as he's written a textbook on magnetism and researches magnetic properties in materials. Magnetocaloric effects are becoming more practical, he thinks, thanks to improved magnet technology and new materials. A magnetic fridge would be compact, less noisy and won't need harmful gases."I think this technology has real potential, but it is still at the early stages. The claims of 40% efficiency savings seem a little speculative, though not completely unreasonable," says Blundell.Some 15% of UK energy is used in refrigeration and cooling for air conditioning, and much more in warmer countries. Garry Staunton, head of low carbon research at the Carbon Trust, which is financially supporting the magnetic fridge's development along with Cambridge University and other investors, says that 22m tonnes of UK carbon dioxide emissions annually are due to refrigeration and air conditioning. Efficiency improvements to domestic fridges since 1990 have seen a 27% reduction in their energy use.Increasing energy efficiency with new technology is the key to stabilising and reducing carbon emissions. Consumers seem willing to support and demand new energy-efficient appliances in their homes, while everyone has felt the sharply rising cost of electricity. As the fridge magnet moves inside the fridge, it may become the exciting new green technology of the 21st century.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The finalreviewsof the year are in today's paper with Zelda getting the 5 stars I reckon it deserves. Yes, you could argue it lacks real originality but Twilight Princess is certainly in my top 5 games of the year (full list next week, all being well) The other reviews are Wii Play - the one with the controller - and Rise of the Witch King the add-on for PC real time strat also-ran Battle for Middle Earth 2.ElsewhereAleks talksabout the continuing rise of virtual communities and social software. Talking of which, after a year of avoiding it I finally downloaded Second Life the other day. Oh dear.Confusing, ugly, unintuitive - it's a miracle Second Life ever got to be so successful. But just imagine how successful it could be if it had even a half decent control system or a proper tutorial and a welcoming interface? And I do buy into the whole virtual communities thing, honest. I've spent more than enough time in World of Warcraft to see what a powerful phenomenon it is. But Second Life? Not at the moment thanks.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..We look at how music recommendation works online (see thedigital editionfor the fascinating diagram), at the first estimate of the cost of the government's failure to make its data free, social software, ask whether iTunes is past its peak, at a magnetic fridge (not a fridge magnet) being developed by Cambridge scientists, and much more.How to get music to our earsMusic recommendation has shifted from experts in dusty record shops to like-minded mates on MySpace. Adam Webb investigates how the music industry is keeping up.Data restrictions cost economy £500mMichael Cross: Fair trade watchdog blasts government agencies for manipulating the market in public sector information.The year I fell in love with social softwareAleks Krotoski: Not since the dotcom bubble of the late 1990s has there been such mainstream excitement about things that happen inside computers.Christmas charity appealNew fuel-efficient wood stoves can help Sudanese refugees help themselves.GamesThe Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess | Lord of The Rings: Rise of The Witch King | Wii PlayWhat is the WEEE directive, and do I need to care?While the country was sent into a frenzy last week with the arrival of Nintendo's Wii console, the electronics industry was furrowing its collective brow over a more high-minded soundalike.Has the iTunes Music Store passed its peak?You mean, has it peaked and are we all eventually going to stop buying music online, if current trends continue? No, on both counts.Slingbox helps make 3G mobiles relevantVictor Keegan: Slingbox, amazingly, enables you to watch surprisingly high-resolution television on your mobile phone anywhere on 3's network.TechnobileMichael Pollitt: Things have got so bad, you now need passwords to protect passwords. Is this drive for security affecting our sanity?A cool new idea from British scientists: the magnetic fridgeThe solid-state fridge could halve your energy bills and help to save the environment.When broadcasters are online, iPods are radio starsCharles Arthur: Early in 2004 I met a man in a corner of a room in Cambridge where various wannabe companies were showing off their grand solutions to problems I didn't know we had.The man who Raikes in the money for MicrosoftJeff Raikes, the president of Microsoft's Business Division (with a turnover of $12.7bn) has come a long way since leaving Apple in 1981.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.Letters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants tomailto:tech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.NewsbytesFree news for all | Photo sharing | City of Tomorrow: Swindon | Microsoft goes robotic | Land search | Cornish calculator | Hotmail is 10 | Whither Galileo?
Forrester Research analystJosh Bernoff has blogged: "What an interesting couple of days it's been. What follows is a case study in how information -- and misinformation -- spreads on the Net."A UK outfit called The Register and Bloomberg decided to dive in and highlight one finding of the report -- that iTunes sales had dropped in the first six months of this year. We got treated to wonderful headlines about iTunes sales "collapsing" and "dropping" and "plummeting" and so on. Now for the record, iTunes sales are not collapsing. Our credit card transaction data shows a real drop between the January post-holiday peak and the rest of the year, but with the number of transactions we counted it's simply not possible to draw this conclusion . . . as we pointed out in the report. But that point was just too subtle to get into these articles.In a comment to this post, Remy Fiorentino adds:The 65% decline in revenue was between January 2006 and June 2006. This decline is statistically significant, but is still based on a sample of 181 iTunes buyers. When we compare this to 2005 data, we see that revenues declined 39% from January 2005 to June 2005. Is 2006 worse than 2005? It's hard to say. However, the January 2005 revenue was a bit higher than the January 2006 revenue, and the June 2005 revenue was more than twice the June 2006 revenue. Our data suggests that the iTunes growth has slowed, though neither Josh nor I would say sales have "collapsed".The original story was blogged herebelow.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Graph: New World NotesSecond Life was projected to reachtwo million users at Christmas, byTateru Ninoon New World Notes, but the Second Life Insider blog reckonsit could be today.Either shortly before midnight SLT tonight (Wednesday) or in the early hours of Thursday. That's a million signups in ... what? 57 days? Sure, 90% of those people disappear before they've gotten through their first 90 days, but I've met (and still meet) some of the most amazing people.How many "real" users there are remains a matter for debate, and Clay Shirky has had a go. InSecond Life: What are the real numbers?, Shirky writes:I suspect Second Life is largely a "Try Me" virus, where reports of a strange and wonderful new thing draw the masses to log in and try it, but whose ability to retain anything but a fraction of those users is limited. The pattern of a Try Me virus is a rapid spread of first time users, most of whom drop out quickly, with most of the dropouts becoming immune to later use. Pointcast was a Try Me virus, as was LambdaMOO, the experiment that Second Life most closely resembles.Comment: Shirky is somewhat bemused by breathless press coverage of Second Life, which he says "is a story that's too good to check". The problem is that it really isn't anything new -- we've had virtual worlds since the early 1980s with MUD, and 3D-avatars (as I've mentioned before) at least sinceWorlds Away-- but Second Life might be the one that finally takes off.Virtual worlds are like smellovision, agent-based artificial intelligences, Dick Tracy communicators, videophones, Unix/Linux on the desktop and other chimera: it always seems that theymightbe the "next big thing" even after two or three decades when they've failed to take off.
There seems to have been a bit of a backlash againstLe Web 3conference in Paris. According toNicole Simon, "this event has been hijacked to be a pit stop of the french presidential election campaign." The organiser, Six Apart'sLoïc Le Meur, has suffered too, and there's an "open letter" protesting thatLeWeb3 is political propaganda. Simon writes:Loic Lemeur has sold out his european peer group for some cheap headlines in french politics - if at all. He has destroyed trust and confidence in a way I have never seen this before.He has not shoot himself in the foot, this is more like having shot himself in the head.Graham Holliday went for The Guardian and has been blogging about it atComment Is Free, and on his own blog,Noodlepie. InLe Web du Nuremberg, he writes:Personally, I feel the conference has had the life sucked out of it by the egoism and ambition of certain individuals running the show and those hopping on the conference bike for a free publicity ride. I won't compare it to Nuremberg - but I will - the politicians have been allowed way too much time here. And it is the bloggers, or one blogger, who has allowed that to happen. Loic Le Meur may have political ambitions beyond the blogosphere, but this conference wasn't the place to publicly cosy up to the French politirati and stick a bit more political currency in the bank. Remember Loic, some folk forked out 600 Euros for this show...Tom Morrishas some good reporting from the floor and a great round-up with links.Comment: There are videos of Le Web talkshere.
Here's anamusing article from the San Francisco Chronicle, advising readers who can't afford to give a PS3, Wii or 360 this Christmas to hunt out retro gaming bargains instead. "If you have a reasonable kid, or a significant other who isn't a huge gamer and finds the new games too complicated, a dated system is a good way to go - especially if your 30-year-old boyfriend has fond memories of his old video games," assures the thrifty reporter.This is agreatidea - even if the concept of a 'reasonable kid' is quaintly out of step with our madly consumerist age. But for adults just looking for some nostalgic fun, why bother with those daft TV plug-in toys that only offer a couple of retro games, when you can go on eBay and hunt down a near-mint PC Engine, or a SNES Super Mario bundle? These days, thirty-somethings are increasingly unable to move beyond their childhood years - why else would some genius re-release the seventiesEvel Knieval stunt cycletoy?The best bargain is apparently Sega's beloved Dreamcast, easily available for twenty dollars online (it breaks my heart to write that.)
Steorn's Sean McCarthy earlier this year/Photograph: Guardian/Graeme RobertsonI spent a couple of hours last night at Spitalfields Market hearing about a technology which the inventors claim will change the world. The event, held atKinetica, was put on by Steorn, a small Irish firm which says it has done the impossible: invented a perpetual motion machine.We've written before about Steorn's audacious claims - alengthy featureby Steve Boggan andthisby Charles - but now they say they are ready to start a high-profile auditing process by bringing in a hand-picked panel of expert judges to test the technology and give their tall stories the acid test.So what did they show off last night? Very little. Charismatic chief executive Sean McCarthy did show a video of a small device which involved a couple of weights and a magnet wibbling about. No perpetual motion apparent there, though, but (unsurprisingly) he said the point was that the gizmo produced more energy than it consumed.He also claimed the company had built prototypes - one which lasted four weeks and another which produced enough juice to power a Porsche. And interestingly, he said "free energy" wasn't about saving the world, which didn't go down too well among the requisite spattering of hirsute loons wanting to claim the technology for the anti-capitalist movement.McCarthy said he didn't care about the politics, he was in it for the money - but was made uncomfortable by an audience member who said he'd failed to contact some of the world's leading experts, includingHal Puthoff, who apparently has $900m in funding for any breakthrough technologies. "I'm not interested in $900 million," McCarthy replied. "It means nothing to me."That rang a little false, but McCarthy says Steorn will be ready to put up or shut up by next autumn.But surely breaking all known physical laws is too good to be true. Isn't it?
New research conducted by Professor Tony McEnery ofLancaster University, reveals that today's teenagers have a measley vocabulary of just over 12,600 words compared with the 21,400 words available to the average 25 to 34 year-old. Apparently the word sequences 'but no' and 'no but' appear almost twice as frequently in teenage speech than in everyone else's, leading to fears that we're rolling out a nation of Vicky Pollards.What's to blame? 'Technology isolation syndrome,' asserts Professor McEnery. Kids these days spend too long locked into their own worlds, cut off by personal MP3 players and games consoles. Consequently, I suspect, they are now only able to communicate in the form of track listings and videogame mission briefings.Ah, if only thiswerethe case. You never hear Solid Snake struggling to communicate an unamusing anecdote involving Trevor Dilton and that slag Jane Green behind the Shell garage on Princes Street. Although to be fair, I did skip a lot of the cut-scenes in MGS2, I could have missed something.Morehereandhereif you can face it.
How will you be buying your games in ten years? Chances are you'll be downloading them straight to your Xbox 720 and PS4. But notaccording toTim Ellis, games head at HMV who, understandably, thinks retail will remain crucial for games. " I don't think it's in the interest of publishers or platform holders to do away with retail, because they won't get the standout any more. "Music is different - I tend to buy CDs rather than download but that's mainly because I'm 33 and have a need to gawp at a CD collection - but games are generally more disposable. You play them, love them and move them on. Check out the pre-owned racks that dominate every games store for proof that - retro titles and occasional Ico-style artily packaged classic aside - gamers have little affection for the physical product. Actually, if game shops offered us a better shopping experience than the teenage boy jumble sale currently on display then they might have a chance, but that's for another blog. It will be interesting to see which major title is the first to truly bypass traditional retail, but it will happen. How will you be buying Halo 6 in 2015?
"Honey, the TV is leaking again"While the rest of us are still struggling to come to terms with the HD era, Philips is pressing ahead with the next generation of home entertainment technology,amBX, which consists of a TV that sends out ambient light around the screen, as well as other enabled devices. Like a desk fan. These apparently work together to increase the sensual impact of the experience, combining 'surround lighting, sound, vibration, air movements and other effects.'To spread the curious message about amBX, the company is signing up developers left, right and centre to support the technology. The latest are Codemasters with Toca 3, which will now send wind through the players' hair, and two titles fromIntroversion- Darwinia and Defcon. The latter is the most understandable of the iterations, the glowing screen surround adding an extra spook factor to those haunting retro graphics. Stick the game on auto and this could almost qualify as art, the apocalypse playing out in the corner of your room, the white glow of global death ebbing into the lounge. Well, it's no less depressing than watching Santa Claus the Movie again this Christmas.
The Google Operating System blog has a funny post devoted towhat Googlge can't do.... or at least can't do without throwing up the odd error.
Danny Sullivan, who recently departedSearch Engine Watch, has opened his own place atSearch Engine Land.The new team is the old team: it includesChris ShermanandBarry Schwartz, former mainstays of Search Engine Watch, andvarious others.
"Microsoft's Zune is a slick piece of hardware. It's a worthy competitor to the iPod that surpasses its rival in some surprising ways, like the interface, which is drop-dead fantastic," according to Wired's Cult of Mac man Leander Kahney.Some sample comments:I've been playing with a Zune for a couple of weeks, and I like it. I like it a lot.The Zune's interface impressed me the most: It's much slicker and easier to use than the iPod's.The Zune's navigation scheme is also better-designed and easier to use.The Zune is much more intuitive.The screen is absolutely gorgeous.Comment: It's not all praise, of course -- no one thinks Zune is perfect -- but the quality of the interface has been noted by other Mac fans including The Wall Street Journal'sWalt Mossberg("the Zune player and software have a very good user interface, different from, but in some cases easier to use than, the iPod's"). I wonder if it's a sign that we might be moving from theclueless idiotstyle of Zune reviewing to a more balanced approach?
In the studio: Lewis Wolpert/Photograph: Martin GodwinThe latesteditionof the Guardian'sScience Weeklypodcast is a special episode dedicated to exploring creationism and intelligent design. Does ID deserve a fair shout in science lessons? Or is it merely traditional creationism dressed in an ill-fitting lab coat?Professor Lewis Wolpert, the respected biologist, is in the studio to lend his thoughts as the team explore the question of whether ether are really trying to get into our schools.Clickhereto listen now, and visit the podcast blog tojoin in the debate.And don't forget Tune in each week for your dose of science and technology: either bysubscribing via iTunes, or by picking up our XML feedhere.
...well, sort of lightly prod it. TheFull Price top tenfor the week ending December 9 is out, with Zelda invading the number five spot and Red Steel peeking in at 16. Wii Play makes an appearance in theAll Games chartat number nine. Early days yet, of course. And it was going to take more than a day on sale to beat the twin EA behemoths of FIFA 2007 and Need forProfitSpeed.
