Sony has skipped 2K and gone straight to 4K for the launch of the world’s first UHD 4K smartphone, which has four times the number of pixels of Apple’s iPhone 6 Plus.The new Xperia Z5 Premium “super flagship” smartphone has Sony’s new 5.5in 4K display, which has a pixel density of 801 pixels per inch (ppi), and leads a new range of Z5 series smartphones.The higher the pixel density the sharper the screen; it is the basis for which Apple sells its “Retina” screens, but others,such as SamsungandLG, have opted for 2K displays with pixel densities at 577 and 538ppi respectively.Apple’s iPhone 6 Plus with its 5.5in 1080p display has a pixel density of 400ppi, while Sony’s previous smartphones had a maximum of 423ppi.The back of the 5.5in Z5 Premium is mirrored to differentiate it from the frosted glass of the Z5 and Z5 Compact, but will undoubtedly become a fingerprint magnet.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian“Why is 4K needed? There are 76 display resolution variations but only nine content resolution variations, none of which include 2K, so if you’re going to go higher than 1080p, 4K is the answer,” said Takao Yagi from Sony’s Xperia display technology group in Japan.Whether a resolution as high as 4K on a screen as small as 5.5in makes a material difference for consumers remains to be seen.Despite having a super-high resolution, Sony promises up to two-days battery life, using the same image processing and power saving technologies it usedwithin its Z3andZ3 Compact, both of which had two-day battery lives.The Z5 Premium has 32GB of storage, 3GB of memory and runs Qualcomm’s octo-core Snapdragon 810 processor, which caused overheating issues in several smartphones, including Sony’s Z3+, and could only record 4K video for less than a minute before overheating.The 5.2in Sony Xperia Z5 with new 23-megapixel camera sitting flush with the back in the corner.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe smartphone will also use Sony’s first new smartphone camera sensor in two years, which integrates phase detection technology from the company’s Alpha cameras for the world’s fastest focus time of 0.03 seconds.The 5.5in Z5 Premium will be joined by a standard 5.2in Z5, the successor to Sony’s Z3, with a 1080p screen with 423ppi and similar specifications to the Premium.Sony will also update its smaller, top-end smartphone range with the Z5 Compact, which promises the same performance as its larger smartphones but in a more manageable frame with a 4.6in 720p screen.The 4.6in Xperia Z5 Compact promises to be easier to use due its smaller size.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianAll three smartphones are waterproof and will have Sony’s new fingerprint sensor, which is hidden under the power button on the side of the phone – the first fingerprint scanner not to be placed either on the front or the back of the smartphone.“People press the power button 100 times a day, having a fingerprint sensor under it on the side means it’s not awkward to activate and keeps the phone secure,” said Jun Makino from Sony mobile.The fingerprint scanner is on the side of the phone under the power button, rather than on the front or the back as with Apple, Samsung or Huawei smartphones.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian•Sony Xperia Z3 review: great battery life and quality camera•Sony Xperia Z3 compact review: best small Android phone and iPhone 6 competitor
Google, the company now owned by Alphabet, (do keep up) hasunveiled a new logo, replacing probably the best known tech branding in the world. The new logo, in a typeface cheekily (but accurately) titled “product sans” is thought to be cleaner and easier to read but also – crucially – quicker to load.This isn’t the first time Google has played around with its logo, previous changes include the time the companyaltered the kerning(positioning of the letters), shifting the “g” and “l” letters by a single pixel each (see below).Google altered the kerning of its logo in 2014Tech companies seem to like tinkering, frequently. Here’s five other distinct redesigns:Air BnBAirBnB’s logo.Photograph: Air BnBThe rental website and apphit the headlinesin July 2014 with its redesigned logo, which it named the Bélo. Air BnB called the logo “the universal symbol of belonging”, but to everybody else it looked like the universal symbol of vaginas. Online media, however, love things that look like vaginas –canoes,football stadia– so the new logo racked upa lotof publicity.It quickly became the butt of jokes andmemes, and people also pointed out it was very similar to the logo of tech firmAutomation Anywhere.YahooYahoo’soriginal logowas literally just the word “Yahoo” in Times New Roman font. It wasn’t exactly grabbing. Later iterations just resembled awkward ClipArt, so it was about time for a lick of paint when the Yahoo logo wasredesignedin 2013. Chief executiveMarissa Mayer, along with an intern, designed the new branding over a single weekend, describing it as “whimsical, yet sophisticated”.“I’m not a pro, but I know enough to be dangerous”, Mayersaid, of her Adobe Illustrator skills. Total badass.Various iterations of Yahoo!’s logo. The most recent is the purple one.Photograph: Yahoo!MicrosoftMicrosoft’s 1975 logo.Photograph: MicrosoftMicrosoft’sfirst logowas so 70s, which was appropriate, given that Microsoft began life in 1975. Still one of the coolest tech logos, it had an arcade feel about it. One of the later and most loved logos, introduced in 1984, featured anitalicisedtypeface, and was familiar to PC users for almost a quarter of a century (see below).The current Microsoft logo, rendered in the Segoe typeface and which came into being in 2012, is completely dull. But that hasn’t stopped the companyissuing guidelineson how to use it.Microsoft’s current logo, and beneath one of its most loved, which lasted for almost 25 years.Photograph: MicrosoftAOLAOL, or America Online, to give the company its full title, has had many logos over the years. There’s even been a version consisting of the Brazilian flag. The current branding however was introduced in 2009. Aseries of logosfeatures photos of a goldfish, a cassette type, an astronaut and a bunch of scribble. The designer,Wolff Olins, is also the man responsible for theLondon 2012 Olympic games logo. The less said about that the better.The current AOL logo is set in a typeface similar to Futura, and without the brand’s olderplay buttonor triangle element.The series of logos AOL produced in 2009.Photograph: AOLWindowsThe well-known Windows 95 logo.Photograph: Microsoft WindowsIn contrast to its parent company, Microsoft, the Windows operating systems package is constantly changing. Apparently, Windows has gone through more logos in the past 20 years than any other tech product, but the flying window, properly introduced in Windows 3.1, has remained consistent in the designs. You can see all of the past Windows logo designs (pre-Windows 10)here.The current logo, which was unveiled in September 2014 ahead of the summer2015 release of Windows 10, follows on from the Windows 8 iteration. It’s less interesting, but I guess blue is the warmest colour.Windows 10, which is all blue unlike more colourful, earlier versions.Photograph: Microsoft WindowsGoogle’s new logo is motivated by design austerity, not legibility
Google will begin to downgrade search results for websites that show aninterstital advertfor their mobile app from 1 November, as part of its ongoing effort to promote “mobile-friendly” sites on its web search.The new policy means that websites that show mobile users a whole-page advert for an app before they can use the site itself will be penalised in their search ranking. Sites that use an app install banner across the top of the page will continue to be classed as mobile-friendly under the new rules.Google argued that a full-page advert is “not a good search experience” for users. In a blogpost, Daniel Bathgate, a software engineer for Google Search, wrote: “Sometimes a user may tap on a search result on a mobile device and see an app install interstitial that hides a significant amount of content and prompts the user to install an app.“Our analysis shows that it is not a good search experience and can be frustrating for users because they are expecting to see the content of the web page.”The downgrading will only affect searches made by mobile devices, and it is part of the company’s ongoing attempt to promote “mobile-friendly” websites in search results.Introduced in April, the new policy was quickly dubbed “mobilegeddon” based on the magnitude of the changes it demanded of web developers. Major sites such as the Daily Mail had to rush out mobile-friendly redesigns or risk losing search traffic.Sites such as Etsy and Yelp run the risk of being similarly affected by the latest changes. Both companies use an interstitial ad to encourage users to download their mobile apps.Ironically, just a few days earlier, a different division of Google announced its own full-page app adverts. In a post on its Adwords blog from 27 August, the company’s advertising division demonstrated a new design for app-install ads which companies might want to employ.In a post,the firm described the new design: “Inspired by Material Design, the new app-install interstitial comes with a beautiful cover photo, a round install button, and matching colour schemes. Technology called ‘colour extraction’ makes the ads more consistent with the brand’s look and feel – we extract a dominant colour either from the cover photo or app icon and apply it to the footer and install button. We found that having a greater variety of designs and colours can improve conversion rate.”But those adverts are only used in-app, and so are not covered by the search division’s crackdown on full-page web adverts, the company told the Guardian.Updated to clarify that in-app adverts, like those made by Adwords, are not covered by the downgrading of mobile web adverts.
As with many a long-running movie series, Mad Max films are built around a few recurring twists and turns. One of these devices is the theft of Max’s car, the baleful V8 Interceptor that facilitates his transformation from family man to roving desert avenger in the 1979 original. Reclaiming the vehicle and thus, Max’s feckless nomad lifestyle is a narrative crux in the sequels, with allies and antagonists basically serving as speed bumps.Avalanche’s videogame adaptation comes up with a smart variation on the theme, appropriate to the needs of an open-world game that, like fellow Warner Bros release Shadows of Mordor, borrows its spread of initially fogged-up map regions and stronghold infiltration missions from Ubisoft’s Assassin’s Creed series. Rather than rescuing his car, Max must build another, the Magnum Opus, using parts and scrap metal that are plucked from the wreckage of downed autos, the underbellies of dead towns and the hands of tribal fanatics.In the process you’re called on to reevaluate the car as a symbol, or rather, to decide whether it means anything more profound than the ability to get the hell away from everybody else. This isn’t just my highfalutin’ reading of a B-movie plot. It’s right there in the script in the form of Chumbucket, the mutant greasemonkey who teams up with Max after he takes a fall at the hands of one Scabrous Scrotus, son of Mad Max: Fury Road’s guttural tyrant Immortan Joe.For Chumbucket, the automobile is a goddess – an “Angel of Combustion” that, unlike most deities, also serves as a handy battering ram. In the course of the plot, you and he will pile dozens of upgrades onto your car’s holy frame, adding spiked hubcaps, flame jets and a giant fold-out sniper rifle. When he’s not tinkering with the Magnum Opus, Chumbucket rides around in the back, scuttling across the roof to make repairs. He also operates the delightful harpoon launcher that is the game’s clearest nod to Avalanche’s other open-world series, Just Cause, piercing and tearing loose doors, bodywork and hapless enemy drivers as Max ploughs across the dunes.In the apocaltypic wasteland, hitchhikers do not take no for an answerPhotograph: Warner BrosThe game’s on-the-road combat is excellent and brutal, if a shade too chaotic for its own good. Aiming the harpoon or Max’s shotgun triggers slow motion, buying you a respite in which to zero in on highlighted weak spots or swivel the camera to stare in consternation at an approaching hotrod, just before it T-bones you. Its lowest moments come when the Magnum Opus nears destruction – perhaps because the open-world structure has pitched you up against foes that your ride is ill-equipped to handle – obliging Max to leap out and somersault goofily around opposing roadsters while Chumbucket tends to the wounded car.If the vehicular combat is firmly Avalanche’s baby, the on-foot stuff leans on the example of Rocksteady’s Batman games, with an all-powerful counter button that allows you to hold your own in a mob, providing you spot the button prompt before an attacker’s blow connects. The camera can be unwieldy indoors and elite enemies follow a predictable pattern (dodge the charge, then sock ‘em in the rear), but the unscientific thuggishness of the fisticuffs is worth sticking around for. Fists sail home like bricks into sandcastles, and there’s a Fury state that, once triggered by landing a certain number of hits, opens up wrestling throws and jump kicks for a beautifully savage finish.The melee combat system allows you to hold the punch button, adding satisfying weight - but you open yourself to attack in the process.Photograph: Warner BrosAlas, for all its early promise the plot delivers no similarly satisfying conclusion: it’s embarrassing, throwback guff. Fury Road turned the tables on the notion of damsels in distress, with Charlize Theron driving a massive phallic emblem off into the wilderness. Avalanche’s tale puts the damsels front and centre, and somehow makes Max himself even more of a glassy-eyed, apathetic cipher than in any of the films.Fans of the movies, and of open-world games alike, might retort that sticking to the plot’s beaten path is missing the point. But the vast stretches of dust, trash and oily swampland that surround the story offer their share of disappointments. The views are majestic, with dynamic weather systems rolling across the searing blue of the skybox, and the flames of refineries raging in the distance like multiple Eyes of Sauron. But the side activities – scouting out landmarks through weather balloons, racing, speaking to wastelanders about hidden loot, tracking down landmines – aren’t that novel, and the continual pressure to scoop up scrap for upgrades that move the story forward takes the joy out of scouring the landscape.You could say that this focus on scant resources is in keeping with the theme, but however arid it seems on the surface, Mad Max is a power fantasy rather than a realistic survival sim. Put it this way: the authentic scarcity of materials doesn’t really agree with a game in which you can heal bullet injuries by swigging from your canteen. It says something about the design team’s (guilty) awareness of this that many of the perks you can unlock at friendly outposts merely accelerate the process of finding scrap, to the point of having non-player characters collect it on your behalf.My original worry on hearing that Avalanche would be developing a Mad Max game was that the studio would simply make a post-apocalyptic version of its popular Just Cause series – without the rich buffet of absurd movement options and stacks of demolishable buildings. The game escapes that fate, but an abundance of rough edges, and a weak story, mean that it doesn’t quite go the distance. Avalanche has tuned the engine of the open-world driving genre, but this is certainly no revolution.Warner Bros; PC/PS3/PS4/Xbox 360/Xbox One; £40; Pegi Rating: 18
A Wikipedia scam in which small businesses have been charged “protection money” to safeguard pages about their organisations has prompted the online encyclopaedia to block 381 editor accounts.TheWikipedia Foundation said the accounts were blockedover “black hat” editing – charging money for the creation of promotional articles – amid allegations that hundreds ofbusinesses and minor celebrities have been blackmailedby scammers posing as Wikipedia administrators.The site’s editing community launched an investigation dubbed Orangemoody, after the name of the first deceptive, or “sock puppet”, account involved.Theinvestigation into Wikipedia editsfrom the end of April until the start of August found a “very large group of socks creating promotional articles, inserting promotional and external links and otherwise editing disruptively”.It found that those operating the accounts were editing for profit by demanding payments from businesses and personalities for their Wikipedia entries and to protect them from online “vandalism”.Dan Thompson, who runs a holiday let company, was one of those targeted by a scammer claiming to have Wikipedia “privileges”. He told the Independent: “Maybe I was naive but I suspect I am not alone.”Under the scam, draft entries were initially declined publication because they contained too much promotional content. Those operating the sock puppet account would then make changes to make the article acceptable for publication. Then, posing as genuine editors or Wikipedia administrators, they would charge businesses a fee for the article to be published. Some businesses were also asked to pay a monthly fee to protect the entries from changes or deletion.Wikipedia’s investigation warned that the scam had exposed a vulnerability in the way the site operates. It said: “The use of declined drafts … to identify and approach potential clients is a new wrinkle in the way paid editing is being conducted. The return to demand further money to “protect the article is also significant”.More than 200 articles have been deleted as a result of the investigation, but the foundation said more action was likely to be necessary.It said many identified accounts were edited before the timeframe of the investigation. “The nature and quality of the edits suggests that this paid editing scheme had been in place for some time before it was fortuitously identified,” it said.The Wikimedia Foundation said it will be reviewing more articles, and urged Wikipedia users to be on the lookout for similar scams. Suspicious entries can be reported to info-orangemoody@wikipedia.org.Foundation members Ed Erhart and Juliet Barbara wrote in a blogpost: “Neutrality is key to ensuring Wikipedia’s quality. Although it does not happen often, undisclosed paid advocacy editing may represent a serious conflict of interest and could compromise the quality of content on Wikipedia.“The practice is in conflict with a number of English Wikipedia’s policies, including neutrality and conflict of interest, and is a violation of the Wikimedia Foundation’s terms of use.”Not all paid editing is a violation of Wikipedia policies, they pointed out. Museum and university employees around the world edit by disclosing their official affiliations, and several prominent public relations firms have signed an agreement to abide by Wikipedia’s paid editing guidelines.
The Motorola Moto X Play aims to be the phone that gets the basics right and packs a few high-end features, and still costs under £300 – but does it succeed?Curvy back, straight faceThe metal frame and curved back feel great in the hand.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Moto X Play resembles every other smartphone Motorola has made in the last two years: a button-free front with speakers top and bottom, and a curve to its back.Compared to the super-thin smartphones from Samsung and Apple, the Moto X Play seems rather chunky at 10.9mm thick. That’s 4mm thicker than the wafer that is the Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge+. It’s even bigger than similarly priced rivals: 2.4mm thicker and 12g heavier than the Huawei Honor 7 and 1mm thicker – though 6g lighter – than the 5.5in OnePlus 2.The curved back and rubberised plastic cover make the Moto X Play comfortable in the hand. Other materials, including wood, are available for the replaceable back cover. The build quality of the phone is solid, apart from the buttons on the side which feel loose and have some play to them. The phone is splash resistant, but not waterproof, which means spills are fine, trips down the toilet are not.Its 5.5in 1080p screen is decent with good viewing angles, colour reproduction and brightness. It is very similar to rivals, although slightly more vibrant than that of the OnePlus 2, for instance.The display is not quite up to scratch with the top-spec flagships from Samsung and LG, with significantly lower pixel density - just 403 pixels per inch (ppi) compared to the LG G4’s 538ppi 5.5in screen. The difference is noticeable but most users will likely be satisfied with the sharpness of the 1080p screen for the money.The two front-facing speakers are not a stereo pair. The top one is the handset’s earpiece, the bottom the loud speaker, which is a shame.The plastic back sits inlayed around a metal frame and camera module.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSpecificationsScreen:5.5in 1080p LCD (403ppi)Processor:octa-core Snapdragon 615RAM:2GB of RAMStorage:16/32GB plus microSD card slotOperating system:Android 5.1.1 “Lollipop”Camera:21MP rear camera (f/2.0), 5MP front-facing cameraConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi, NFC, Bluetooth 4.0 and GPSDimensions:148 x 75 x 10.9 mmWeight:169gNot-quite-two-day batteryThe back is only removable so it can be customised. The battery is not removable and the microSD card sits within the sim-card tray in the top.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Moto X Play comes with Qualcomm’s new mid-range Snapdragon 615 processor, which does not suffer the heat problems of its top of the range 810. It is also not quite as powerful – and with only 2GB of RAM is a little short on memory compared to its competition.I found the phone to be snappy. It wasn’t noticeably slower than the OnePlus 2, but was less immediate in navigating menus and other interface elements compared to the very fast Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge+.The Moto X Play will be able to handle most things without issue: even a particularly frenetic game of Shooting Stars didn’t phase it. Only the most graphically demanding games are likely to cause issues for the Play.Motorola claims the Moto X Play has an “up to two-day” battery life, thanks to a 3630 mAh battery, which is at least 20% larger than most others smartphones.In my experience, the Moto X Play didn’t live up to that. Waking up at 7am I found it consistently dying by 6pm the next day, giving it a 35-hour battery. I used it as my primary device receiving hundreds of emails and push notifications, listening to an hour of music each day, browsing Twitter, Facebook and the internet for around an hour each day, and 20 minutes spent playing games.The Moto X Play will therefore safely last a day, no matter how hard it is pushed, but will likely struggle to make two days unless your usage is significantly lighter than mine.The battery charges in under two hours using a Quick Charge or “turbo” power adapter – one is included in the box that has two sockets – which is impressive given the large battery size.Google’s Android plus helpful appsThe Moto app allows users to customise scheduled actions, voice control and the display.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianMotorola uses Google’s standard Android 5 “Lollipop” experience on its smartphones, choosing not to modify it, which is the right choice.The Moto X Play is bloat-free, unless you count Google’s apps, with just a few reasonably helpful Motorola apps.Of note is the Moto actions app that allows users to set up automated tasks such as silencing their phone when they get home or while in meetings. Unfortunately, the Play is missing the karate chop gesture to light the flash as a torch, which works so well on the Moto G.Motorola’s voice control system is also decent, once the activation word is configured correctly. I struggled to set it up in an open plan office – it needed a quieter space to learn my wake-up phrase correctly.Moto Voice is an enhanced version of Google Now. Users can shout at their smartphone even when the screen is off to trigger actions, set timers, ask questions, place phone calls and send messages. It still makes me feel uncomfortable talking to an inanimate object in public, but it worked fine in the home.CameraThe camera app is fast, but controlling the focus is a faff. Other camera apps are available for more control.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Moto X Play’s 21-megapixel camera is a significant improvement over Motorola’s previous camera efforts. It shoots decent photos with good colour and detail. It isn’t quite up to the standards of the Samsung Galaxy S6 or LG G4, but is close when shooting in good light.The Play struggles, however, in low-light, even with its low-light setting, producing grainy photos that are often out of focus.Part of the problem is the Motorola camera app. It can be launched with a double twist of the wrist gesture and is really fast to capture images, but Motorola has opted for touch-anywhere to shoot.Most camera apps touch to focus before pressing a camera button to take the picture. With Motorola’s you’ve got to hope it knows where you want to focus. When taking landscapes or shots of things far away it has no issue, but I frequently missed the shot I was trying to take because of crummy focus.A drag-to-focus option is available, but it is clunky and all too easy to shoot the wrong subject. Other camera apps are available, of course, including Google’s decent basic Camera app.The front-facing five-megapixel selfie-cam is solid with a good wide-angle lens to get more than just your face in the picture.PriceThe 16GB Moto X Play costs £250 in black or £270 in white. Other colours are available using Motorola’s customisation tool on its site, as is a 32GB version, which costs £319.For comparison, the OnePlus 2 costs £239, but is not freely available, while Huawei Honor 7 costs £250 and the LG G4 costs £340.VerdictThe Moto X Play is another good smartphone for the money from Motorola. It, like the Moto G, ticks all the right boxes and has only cut corners on some of the small things.The Play is not a “flagship killer” and doesn’t profess to be. It doesn’t have any real killer features, but instead provides a decent Android experience for at least £100 less than top-end rivals.It’s close to being fantastic, only let down by a collection of small niggles with the camera, buttons and speakers, but is still excellent value for a name-brand, easy-to-buy smartphone.Pros:decent battery life, solid camera, stock Android, helpful Moto apps, microSD card slot, good screen, splash proofCons:wobbly buttons, camera app too simple, camera struggles in low-light, chunky, no removable batteryMotorola Moto X Play review - buttonsPhotograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianOther reviews•LG G4 review: one of the best phablets available, boasting an impressive camera•OnePlus 2 review: a real ‘flagship killer’?•Huawei Honor 7 review: solid mid-range with lightning-fast fingerprint scanner•Motorola Moto G (3rd Gen) review: the best budget smartphone just got better
If you thought your eyes were playing up when you looked at Google’s homepage today, fret not. They’ve justchanged their logo.The new sans-serif design is the biggest revamp since 1999 and is a bid to reflect the development of the company. As mentioned in ablogpost, “Google has changed a lot over the past 17 years – from the range of our products to the evolution of their look and feel.“Meanwhile, we’re bidding adieu to the little blue ‘g’ icon and replacing it with a four-color ‘G’ that matches the logo.”But we liked the little ‘g’!Can you do any better?Share your new logo designs with us and we’ll publish the best ones in a gallery on the site.GuardianWitnessis the home of readers’ content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.
Newsagent WHSmith has compromised users’ private data sending it in hundreds of emails to customers due to a misconfigured “contact us” form on the retailer’s magazine website.Information typed into the form, which is supposed to then be passed on to the company itself, was instead apparently sent to its entire mailing list.In a vicious cycle, some subscribers used the affected form in an attempt to contact WHSmith to end the email bombardment – instead generating still-more messages to fill users’ inboxes.WHSmith Magazinesconfirmed that the breach is a technical issueand hid the contact-us form from its website.In a statement, the company told the Guardian: “We have been alerted to a systems processing bug by I-subscribe, who manage our magazine subscriptions. It is a bug not a data breach.” A WHSmith spokesman added that 22 customers’ personal information was exposed due to the bug.It continued: “I-subscribe have immediately taken down their ‘Contact Us’ online form which contains the identified bug, while this is resolved. I-subscribe are contacting the customers concerned to apologise for this administrative processing error. We can confirm that this issue has not impacted or compromised any customer passwords or payment details and we apologise to the customers concerned.”Some of the messages sent in the early period of the flaw contain sensitive personal information including real names, phone numbers, and email and postal addresses.Anyone else getting dozens of emails via@WHSmithcontact form ? Including phone numberspic.twitter.com/960EZYNSSE&mdash; Lynn Schreiber (@LynnCSchreiber)September 2, 2015@WHSmithsuper, you&#39;ve sent me over 100 people&#39;s personal details, awesome, so who&#39;s got mine?!?! 👌&mdash; Jamie Skuse (@jskuse89)September 2, 2015Unfortunate that every time someone emails@WHSmithabout magazine subscriptions it&#39;s going to *everyone* on the database. Details too.&mdash; Jono Read (@jonoread)September 2, 2015First live pictures as@WHSmithsocial media managers wander into workhttps://t.co/zuBvISd64Ypic.twitter.com/kQviwJVhVC&mdash; Charlie Lindlar (@charlielindlar)September 2, 2015It isn’t the first time the retailer has resorted to drastic measures to correct an IT problem. In 2013,it closed down its entire website for more than a weekafter it was discovered selling hardcore pornographic ebooks, some featuring rapes and bestiality.
It’s Wednesday!
First they changed their name, now they’ve changed their logo. Google introduced a new sans-serif and slightly toned-down four-colour logo on Tuesday in the biggest redesign since 1999.Related:Google's new logo is motivated by design austerity, not legibilityGoogle said the new design would soon be seen across all its products. Google’s homepage introduced the redesign with an animation that wiped away the old logo and drew the new one.“Google has changed a lot over the past 17 years – from the range of our products to the evolution of their look and feel. And today we’re changing things up once again,” the company said in ablogpost.The company said the redesign was meant to reflect the way that people interact with Google products across many different platforms, apps and devices.Google’s new logo.Photograph: AP“It doesn’t simply tell you that you’re using Google, but also shows you how Google is working for you. For example, new elements like a colorful Google mic help you identify and interact with Google whether you’re talking, tapping or typing. Meanwhile, we’re bidding adieu to the little blue ‘g’ icon and replacing it with a four-color ‘G’ that matches the logo.”The logo has undergone many, mainly small, changes in its history. The colours have changed, 3D letters have been flattened, and an exclamation point came and went in 1999.The move comes just a month after a major restructuring of the company was unveiled. Google is now owned byAlphabet, a holding company created by founders Sergey Brin and Larry Page to separate their money-making search engine company from the loss-making, “moon shot” projects like robot cars, medical research and internet-delivering balloons.
Nobody ever went broke underestimating the intelligence of the American public, H L Mencken famously said. It looks like you can double the truth of that the moment penises get involved.According to Avid Life Media, the parent company of the recently hacked infidelity website Ashley Madison,hundreds of thousands of people have signed up for its servicesin the past week, despite the fact that the hack not onlyreleased details of millions of its adulterous clients, but had also apparently shown thatmost of the female users were fake.The latter claim has since been amended – it looks as if there weremore real women on there than first thought, though still outnumbered by bots that seem to have been specifically designed by the company to engage with the men and make it seem like the place was just one great welcoming vagina – but the new customers didn’t know that. For many thousands of people, the then current knowledge – that there were barely any women on the site and that it had all the security of a rotting hammock – was apparently nothing compared with the news that there was a site out there that offered the chance, however small and dangerous, of being brought into conjunction with new sets of genitalia.This massive uptick in membership suggests that we should have turned to P T Barnum rather than Mencken – there really is no such thing as bad publicity. For every person who looked at the story and said to himself (going by even the revised figures it is evidently very rarely “herself” when it comes to anything Ashley Madison): “Dodged a bullet there, mate,” there were dozens more who said: “I had never realised that the internet could be pressed into service in this way. What a revelation. Sign me up. Literally, sign me up. With my real name and credit card details and everything.”Is it a triumph of hope over (vicarious) experience? Or of the infinite corruptibility of man/men over everything else? Answers on postcards to the usual address, please, where they will be disposed of using rubber gloves and tongs.
After years in development, a fascinating prelude and someinteresting marketing decisions, Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain was finally released Tuesday. Following grizzled hero Big Boss on his journey into war-torn Afghanistan, the latest title in the series is looking like another epic, bewildering and brilliant stealth adventure.Metal Gear Solid, of course, popularised the stealth concept in 1998, introducing millions of gamers to the basic conventions of this then formative genre. You need a protagonist who relies more on watching and avoiding enemies than shooting them; you need an artificial intelligence system that gives baddies predictable patrol behaviours but also lets them see and hear the hero; and you need an environment that allows players to hide. A lot.Here then, are our nine favourites from the whole history of sneak’em-ups – we’ve only allowed one title from each of the major franchises to ensure variety, and make it more fun/annoying.Feel free to quietly add your own favourites in the comments section, while no one is looking.Batman: Arkham Asylum (Warner Bros, 2009)Batman: Arkham Asylum – hanging about with gargoyles, waiting for just the right moment...The first of Rocksteady’s excellent Batman titles is the most claustrophobic and contained, taking place almost entirely within Gotham’s favourite hotel for the criminally insane. Although there’s plenty of melee combat, lurking in the shadows and getting to grips with the Dark Knight’s range of silent takedowns was the real thrill here, providing the thoughtful video game experience that the character has always demanded.Deus Ex: Human Revolution (Square Enix, 2011)Deus Ex: Human Revolution – a wonderful sense of environmental realism within its cyberpunk settingAlthough the original Deus Ex is probably superior as an open-world cyberpunk adventure, Human Revolution excels in its stealth game design. The augmentation system allows for a range of specialist abilities, while enemies are just clever enough to make them a challenge rather than impassible omniscient death machines. Plus, as with Metal Gear, the game has interesting things to say about technology and its effect on society – and it gives you time and space to listen.Hitman: Blood Money (Eidos, 2011)Hitman: Blood Money – Agent 47 pretty much silences everythingEvery fan of IO Interactive’s slap head assassination series has their favourite title, but we’re going for the fourth instalment. It follows the familiar recipe: work out your own way of reaching the target – avoiding guards, civilians and cameras – and then take them out with whatever is at hand. It’s the variety of scenarios and tight mechanics that make Blood Money so compelling. Whether you’re in the quiet suburbs or the White House, you’re given the thrilling freedom to be a monstrously efficient killer.Manhunt (Rockstar, 2003)Manhunt – possibly the most messed up stealth game ever madeSurely one of the most bleak and transgressive mainstream video games ever made, Rockstar’s stealth murder sim has the lead character attempting to buy his freedom by carrying out a range of gangland killings for an anonymous client called The Director. It may be a treatise on the nature of interactive violence and player culpability or an unreconstructed slab of interactive torture porn, but the way it gets you up close and personal with your victims is unforgettably creepy.Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater (Konami, 2004)Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater – we were so tempted to run a screenshot of the Ape Escape mini game...Photograph: KonamiServing as an engrossing and complex prequel to the Metal Gear series, Snake Eater goes all Connery-era James Bond with its 1960s setting. But, more importantly, it really plays with the whole stealth concept. Snake is able to poison or starve enemies, as well as using the classic “porn mag as distraction” technique, but then he must also sustain himself in the large open environments, hunting and eating animals – adding a survival stealth element. Plus, there are also classic boss encounters with Fury, Pain and The End to add blistering contrast.Second Sight (Codemasters, 2004)Second Sight – sort of Metal Gear meets CarrieOkay, controversial choice here, as this psychological thriller drew mixed reviews at the time. However, UK studio Free Radical Design crafted a really interesting slant on the stealth genre with its tale of a parapsychologist John Vattic waking up in a medical research facility with no memory, but kick ass psychic powers – including the ability to remotely control objects and enemies. The only downside is that players ended up having to use conventional weapons much more than the Darth Vader-style choke holds that the game enthusiastically provides.Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory (Ubisoft, 2005)Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory – the old ‘sneak up with a dance and a dagger’ approachAs with Hitman, fans will endlessly argue over which is the best in this Tom Clancy-inspired espionage series. While later titles headed too much into narrative action adventure territory, Chaos Theory is a gritty, taut and demanding stealth experience, pitching hero Sam Fisher against an audio mechanic that demands he remains quieter than the ambient noise in any area. The sense of quiet power derived from lying on a rooftop in South Korea, just watching a target stroll into your cross hairs, is scary and ridiculous.Tenchu: Stealth Assassins (Activision 1998)Tenchu: Stealth Assassins – the first title in the Tenchu series introduced the concept of traditional Ninja techniques into the stealth canonDeveloper Acquire created the most authentic video game depiction of the ninja assassin in this demanding and unforgiving PlayStation classic. Set in feudal Japan, it’s all about creeping through the darkness, slashing the throats of enemies (resulting in great splatters of blood), and using throwing stars and grappling hooks, while attempting to remain entirely undetected. The visuals and voice acting are laughable now, but the tension and atmosphere still impress.Thief: The Dark Project (Eidos 1998)Thief: The Dark Project – the first-person view let you stare into the terrifying lifeless eyes of the enemiesLegendary US developer Looking Glass Studios completely set the standards for environmental stealth with its seminal Thief series. Lead protagonist Garrett has to read everything from light levels to the texture of walking surfaces in order to get around undetected, and the open design encourages thoughtful, creative play that contrasts heavily with most first-person action titles of the era. Designers Ken Levine and Doug Church would go on to push the genre further with titles such as System Shock and Bioshock, while Looking Glass colleague Harvey Smith would co-create the excellent Dishonored, effectively a Thief modernisation.
Cyber-attackers have taken down the website of the National Crime Agency (NCA) in apparent revenge for arrests made last week.The NCA website was temporarily down on Tuesday morning, four days after six teenagers were released on bail on suspicion of using hacking group Lizard Squad’s cyberattack tool to target websites and services.The six suspects are accused of using Lizard Stresser, a tool that bombards websites and services with bogus traffic, to attack a national newspaper, a school, gaming companies and a number of online retailers.The NCA is the latest body to fall foul of what is calleda Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attack, stopping real visitors from reaching the site. The law enforcement agency appeared to take the embarrassment in its stride, saying attacks on its site were “a fact of life”.An NCA spokesman said: “The NCA website is an attractive target. Attacks on it are a fact of life.“DDoS is a blunt form of attack which takes volume and not skill. It isn’t a security breach, and it doesn’t affect our operational capability.“At worst it is a temporary inconvenience to users of our website. We have a duty to balance the value of keeping our website accessible with the cost of doing so, especially in the face of a threat which can scale up endlessly.“The measures we have in place at present mean that our site is generally up and running again within 30 minutes, though occasionally it can take longer. We think that’s proportionate.”At about 9am, Twitter account Lizard Squad posted a message:Stressed out?http://t.co/5631pELDMR#offlinepic.twitter.com/hxhAuSdoqq&mdash; Lizard Squad (@LizardLands)September 1, 2015The “Stressed Out?” was an allusion to the name of the code used to launch the high-profile cyber-attacks.Last week’s arrests were made as part of an operation codenamed Vivarium, coordinated by the NCA and involving officers from several police forces.An 18-year-old from Huddersfield; an 18-year-old from Manchester; a 16-year-old from Northampton; and a 15-year-old from Stockport, were arrested last week, while two other suspects, both 17, were arrested earlier this year, one from Cardiff and another from Northolt, north-west London.All six have been bailed, while a further two 18-year-olds – one from Manchester and one from Milton Keynes – were interviewed under caution.
It’s Tuesday, and I’m back from sabbatical! Have I missed anything in the games industry?
Steve Jobs famously declared that the Segway would be “as big a deal as the PC”, until he actually saw one, at which point he recanted and decided that“it sucks”. Since its launch, the self-balancing motorised scooter has had just one other big moment in the spotlight, in 2011, when Jimi Heselden, the British businessman who acquired the US-founded company,rolled off a cliffto the great scrapyard in the sky. Far from changing the world, the Segway has been an underwhelming innovation, limited in its reach, lacking in transformative powers. It evokes images of retirees gently trundling through Florida towards the golf course, or portly security guards trundling towards the coffee machine, or tourists with tired legs trundling around European landmarks. Trundle is not a very sexy word.Until last week, when a humble, trundling scooter took out the fastest man in the world. At the World Athletic Championships in Beijing, cameraman Song Tao interrupted Usain Bolt’s 200m victory lap, knocking the world’s greatest sprinter clean off his speedy feet with a misjudged lean against an unseen barrier. The Segway was everywhere, again, for the wrong reasons, again. It looked as if Tao’s battery-run vehicle had careered out of control. It looked painful. But how hard can it be to learn to ride the world’s most talked-about gyroscopic balancing machine? I went toSegway Unleashedto find out.It’s hard to say Segway Unleashed without sounding like you’re doing the voiceover for a disaster movie trailer. On the way to one of its two centres – where we are promised “the most exciting Segway experience in the south east and Milton Keynes” – I asked my friend what she thought of when I said “Segway”. She thought about it for a minute, then said, with certainty: “fleece”. To Segway is to trundle, in a fleece. Clearly we have preconceptions.The branch of Segway Unleashed that I visit is just off the M25, in the grounds of a beautiful farm near Godstone in Surrey. I stick my head into the workshop and say hello to Ben Morling, founder and MD of both branches, who got into the Segway business after some success with a sphering, or zorbing, company. (You’re strapped into a giant, inflatable ball and rolled down a hill. Ben shows me the shape of his broken fingers, all sphering-related injuries, and I can see why he got into Segway instead.) Ben is reassembling a Segway, which came back from the repair shop this weekend, with a £1,000 bill.Related:Usain Bolt floored by cameraman on Segway as he celebrates 200m goldI thought they might cost around £1,000, which is twice as much as the car I arrived in, so I ask him exactly how much a Segway would set me back. Six thousand pounds, he tells me, immediately dashing my dreams of zipping around Guardian HQ using only my natural balancing skills and the scientific might of gyroscopic sensors.Can’t you get one cheaper? “That’s why a Ferrari is a Ferrari,” he tells me. “It’s not the cheap, plastic crap. I went to the Gadget Show and I tried them, and nah.” He shakes his head. There will be no cheap, plastic crap at Segway Unleashed. “We’ve never taken out an Olympic runner on one of these. We’ve taken each other out, but not a runner!”Ben is pretty sure it wasn’t a Segway that took out Usain Bolt. Not an official one, anyway. He shows me a still from the incident on his phone, and zooms in for forensic analysis. The rubber footplates that distribute the rider’s weight were absent. He thinks the mudguards were too small. The charge port is the wrong colour. There is no red line on the battery. It just wouldn’t happen at Segway Unleashed.The price tag is one of the reasons people think Segways haven’t really taken off – even though other companies have brought out cheaper versions costing a few hundred pounds. That, and the fact that in many places, you can’t just jump on one and use it to nip to the shops, or for your daily commute. In the UK, they are banned from pavements (though only one man has ever been prosecuted – Philip Coates, from South Yorkshire, who was fined £75 under Section 72 of the Highways Act 1835). In Germany, they must be licensed. In Canada, they are banned from public roads and sidewalks. Legislatively, they are confusing, at best.But here, on private land, seven of us are ready to learn exactly how far these two-wheeled mean machines will take us. We have signed to accept that there is some risk of a broken bone. I agree that I am not under the influence of alcohol or narcotics, and do not have any medical conditions that might impact my ability to control the unit. I am given a red motorcycle helmet that I decide makes me look like a Power Ranger, though when I say this to my friend, she has a look that suggests she is thinking, “Power Plonker, more like”.We are ready. To be. Unleashed!Related:The Segway is for show-offs with more money than sense | Julie BindelThe Segways are in beginner’s “turtle mode” and will go at a maximum speed of 4.5mph.Our group – me, my friend, a couple in their 20s, and a father and his two kids – begin the session in Zone One: a field in which we learn how to balance and lean. Our instructor, Kieran Richards, is on his third season at Segway Unleashed. He got into Segway after a couple of seasons of sphering, where he met Ben, who introduced him to the harder stuff. Confounding my notions of fleece, Kieran is a laidback skater who says he falls off the Segways all the time, but only because he’s trying to do tricks on them, which even he admits can be foolish. Leaning, he says to the group, is the key to everything. “Be consistent with your leaning,” he tells us. “Don’t be too aggressive with your leaning.” Usain Bolt has made his life a whole lot easier, because people didn’t really think you could fall off a Segway, and then suddenly, a video went around the world proving that you could, and how. Poor Song Tao, I think. Once a noble cameraman, now a “how not to” punchline in an off-road Segway experience on a farm in Surrey. Kieran says that people only fall off when they catch their wheels, like Tao did, or when they get too cocky.Rebecca Nicholson prepares for her speed test.Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianI resolve not to get too cocky. 4.5mph sounds pretty slow, until you’re standing on a self-balancing scooter controlled by a gyroscope that relies solely on your ability to lean forwards and backwards with just enough oomph to make sure it moves.It’s a bit like stepping onto solid ground if you’ve been on water for hours. It should be the easiest thing in the world to stand still and upright, but suddenly my legs are untrustworthy, and I rock back and forth. The trick is to relax, apparently. I am glad I don’t have a chest full of camera equipment to carry with me. Once balance is established, it’s fairly easy: forward to go, back to stop. Don’t be aggressive with your leaning. The seven of us zip around the training field, at 4.5mph. I avoid the bumps. After five minutes, I seek out the bumps. I wonder how hard it would be to do Segway tricks.Zone Two: the woods. In the woods, we learn to use our knees as shock absorbers, and Joe Hammond, another skater-turned-instructor, starts “catching air” from a tree root that acts as a launching ramp. “You will not catch air,” he reassures us, though I start to think I would like to catch air. The woods are fun. They’re muddy and bumpy and even though the Segway is still going at 4.5mph (maximum), it no longer seems like a trundle. This is what extreme sports must feel like! If you’re doing them very slowly! I go over a root and feel my Segway lifting at least 2mm off the ground. I wonder if I could get sponsorship. Perhaps Nike would like to see their logo on my raincoat as I amble around a track in a wood. Maybe Vans would pay me to wear their trainers, as I lean forward into the unknown. An Adidas helmet. A Red Bull jumper. Perhaps, perhaps. I am ready for the final step. Zone Three: the time trials.The time trials are the most dangerous part of the session. “This is where the psychology kicks in,” Ben tells me. Simply, he says, people are desperate to be the fastest, even though “there’s no prize or anything.” I am desperate to be the fastest. We get a practice run around the track, after a final lesson in leaning. Here, Kieran explains, you can actually put your weight on the sideplates, like a parallel turn if you’re skiiing, or like taking a corner on a motorbike. Joe does some leans that say: I mean business. None of us quite pull it off, but it’s getting serious.Turtle mode is switched off. We are about to enter maximum Segway speed: 12.5mph. “I’ve come off at that before,” says Joe, like a man who has known trauma. We line up for the time trial. I lean forward as hard as I’ve ever leaned, except on the corners, which are muddy, and look as if they could be slippy. Then I lean some more. I whizz – no more trundling – across the finish line, and wait for our times to come in. I am not seventh! Applause. I am not sixth! More applause, this time for my friend, who fell off taking the corner a little bit too keenly, proving that I was right not to go feral. I am not … hold on. I am fifth. I am only marginally faster than someone who stacked it and had to get back on before she could continue the time trial. I get my applause. The sponsorship dream dies. We were all beaten by an 11-year-old, who managed the track “with a very quick time indeed, very fast”, according to an impressed-looking Kieran. Kids are fearless, we agree.It does not look like Segways are going to take the UK by storm, but Joe thinks a version of them may become mainstream yet. The “new, smaller, cheaper things” he refers to have yet to adopt a common name, but are called swegways by some, hover boards by others. They are, essentially, Segways without handles, made more cheaply. Segway Unleashed has had people bringing their swegways to the farm, to see if they can be repaired. “I tell them, send it back to who made it,” says Ben. They are more of the “cheap, plastic crap” of which he does not approve. “You’re saying it’s a Segway like you’d say Hoover for a vacuum,” he says. His Segways are metal, not plastic. They are built to last.Down and out: Segway’s other celebrity victimsGeorge Bush:Of course George Bush has had a Segway fail. The former president could no more stay away from a two-wheeled transporter than aThanksgiving turkey could keep out of his trousers. In 2003, while visiting the family house in Maine, the then president stepped on to a Segway and went down instantly. Being Dubya, he got back up and proceeded to cruise up the driveway with his father, George Bush Sr, bringing up the rear on, yep, another Segway. One wonders if the company slogan – “simply moving” – was inspired by this very scene.Piers Morgan:After Bush’s fall from grace, Piers Morgan’s Daily Mirror ran the gleeful headline: “You’d have to be an idiot to fall off, wouldn’t you Mr President,” adding that “if anyone can make a pig’s ear of riding a sophisticated, self-balancing machine like this, Dubya can.” However, Segways have their own way of redressing the gyroscopic balance of power and soon enough the another powerful white man was beckoned on to the bucking bronco. Four years later Morgan had an epic fall off a Segway while cruising along the promenade at Santa Monica beach, breaking three ribs. “Since only [Bush] and I appear to have ever fallen off one,” he later said, “I think the makers of the Segway can probably still justifiably claim the machines are ‘idiot-proof.’”Joe Previtera:Aussie cameraman Joe Previtera provided a foreshadowing of Usain Bolt’s fate when he catapulted off his Segway during the 2011 Australia v India Test match in Melbourne. The culprit this time was a helmet on the ground, which Previtera drove over. The commentators burst into laughter and Previtera, who was helped to his feet by the wicketkeeper, confessed he had earlier bragged: “No way, I will never crash this thing ever.” Fact: sports cameramen cannot shoot and Segway at the same time. They would be safer, cooler (and possibly faster) gliding about the pitch in kids’ roller shoes.Ellie Goulding:It’s not just world leaders and cameramen who are cocky enough to think they can tame the 12.5mph Segway. Pop star Ellie Goulding hopped on one on holiday in Miami, at first “taking off effortlessly along the pavement by the beach”,according to the tabloid who captured the tumble frame by mind-numbing frame. Disaster (OK, sand) struck, Goulding went flying, then got up and took a bow. In beachwear. You can see why this made the news.Ellen DeGeneres:At the start of 2010 the US talkshow host did a monologue on the Segway X2 that Portia de Rossi had just bought her for Christmas. During the skit she rode the machine around the studio, then admitted: “I’ve already hurt myself on it twice.” The first time was on Christmas morning when, heading for a flowerbed, she threw herself off and split her shin open. The second was rehearsing the monologue and falling off while demonstrating her ability to go backwards. Cut to a clip of the fall and DeGeneres shouting: “Did we get it on tape because that’s the most important thing?” What a pro (or ego).Jimi Heselden:The Segway falls into the tragic category of inventions that have killed its inventors or owners. In 2010, less than a year after taking over the company, millionaire businessman Jimi Heselden was driving his off-road Segway X2 when he fell off a cliff and into a river near his West Yorkshire estate and died. The coroner later said the 62-year-old reversed the machine to make way for a dog walker and died as a result of this ‘act of courtesy’. Less than 48 hours after Heselden’s death, research was published indicating that accidents involving Segways are on the rise.Chitra RamaswamySegwayunleashed.comoffers sessions from £49 per person
There were lots of women looking to cheat on their partners on our site, honest, representatives of hacked infidelity service Ashley Madison claimed on Monday.The latest – unattributed – statement from the Canadian company came after Annalee Newitz, a writer for several Gawker Media websites including Gizmodo,studied the hacked databasefor indications that the site’s purported 5.5 million female users had arranged trysts using the service. She found that “only 1,492 women had ever checked their messages” according to the stolen information, though she allowed for the possibility that the data might have been corrupted.Ashley Madisonreps said that Newitz misread the information (though they didn’t name her personally). “Last week, a reporter who claimed to analyze the stolen data made incorrect assumptions about the meaning of fields contained in the leaked data,” said the unattributed statement. “This reporter concluded that the number of active female members on Ashley Madison could be calculated based on those assumptions. That conclusion was wrong.”There are, the service’s promoters protested, scores of women eager to cheat on their spouses with the right guy, or to abet someone else in that goal. Why, just last week, women “sent more than 2.8m messages with our platform”, the statement boasted, and “the ratio of male members who paid to communicate with women on our service versus the number of female members who actively used their account [...] was 1.2 to 1”.“This past week alone, hundreds of thousands of new users signed up for the Ashley Madison platform,” said representatives of the site, “including 87,596 women.” The site will not cease operations, they wrote.However, emails from the second leak by hackers, calling themselves the Impact Team, also seem to indicate that Ashley Madison created many “angels”, to use the site’s terminology –fake accounts run by botprograms.A former employee sued the site in 2013saying in a complaintthat the site had required the creation of so many fake profiles, she had sustained repetitive stress injuries to her wrists.In July details of more than37m accountswere stolen from the website, whose tagline is: “Life is short. Have an affair.” Last Friday CEO,Noel Bidermanquit the company. Leaked information appeared to show Bidermanused his work email to arrange paid assignationswith young women despite having claimed total fidelity to his wife in an interview with the New York Daily News last year.
A good invention, popular wisdom tells us, ought to either fulfill a need or create one. But popular wisdom greatly underestimates our laziness.These days, a good invention simply indulges our sloth: what areSeamlessandDrizlyif not attempts to make perfectly accomplishable tasks a little easier? I understand the impulse – indeed, it’s difficult to resist the sites’ appeal. Imagine a 10-minute errand forcing you off the couch in the middle of aNetflix binge-watch. It won’t do.It seems the visionaries behindFavoragree.Their new app is a salve for the ordinary loafer: with a few listless taps, you can commission the company’s team of bike-mounted couriers to run your errands for you. Do you need your dry cleaning dropped off or some cat litter picked up? Capitalism insists you shouldn’t bother. Pay a startup to do it for you.Favor, which began life in Austin, Texas, gained a vowel this week as it made its debut in Toronto (I wonder if this shouldn’t be a cautionary tale for American businesses hoping to cross the border in the future: pick a name that translates).Having read that for a small fee – $2 as a flat rate, plus 5% of the total price of the items you request – Favour would deliver virtually anything in the city to my apartment, no matter how trivial or silly, I felt compelled to put the service to the test. So over the weekend I installed the app and let torpidity reign.Because Favour, unlike other couriering services, does not work directly with the businesses it delivers to and from, the app’s interface is unusually pliable: it begins as a blank page onto which you type the name of the business you’d like to order from and a description of the items you’d like to order from them. But as inspiration Favour has provided a list of “featured” suggestions: dog food from the pet store, an umbrella from Walmart, ear buds from the Apple Store, and various specials from local restaurants and cafes.It was dinnertime, and I was in the mood for something suitably indulgent. There are, of course, a lot of ways to order takeout in the city already, but Favour distinguishes itself on the cuisine front by promising access to places that don’t customarily deliver: the company’s “runners” bike over to your restaurant of choice, place an order to go, and bring it to you themselves.Related:Ten of the best back-to-school apps for kidsFavour’s list curators have done their research, and thus Grand Electric, Toronto’s trendiest eatery, was featured front and center on the app’s main page. I placed a modest order of tuna ceviche and seared albacore poke and within moments had confirmation that my runner, Sabrina, was on her way. But then I received an alarming text. It was Sabrina, writing from the restaurant: “According to them you can’t get tuna ceviche or albacore poke to go,” she informed me. And with that, my first order was foiled before it really began.Sabrina was nice about canceling and within moments I’d made a replacement order, this time pork belly banh mi from local sensation Banh Mi Boys. This time, it was a grand success. Ro, my new runner, whisked the hot food from storefront to apartment with tremendous gusto, and since payment is entirely electronic I hardly had a chance to exchange pleasantries before the food was in my hands and Ro was off on another pressing task.The next afternoon, my wife and I tested our runner’s resolve: we ordered two large Neapolitan pizzas from the inimitable Pizzeria Libretto right as a baseball game at the stadium beside our apartment was letting out. At such times I make a point of remaining safely indoors, away from the tens of thousands streaming impossibly by. And yet here came Lucas, on time and unperturbed.Favour could do food. But how far does Favour’s purview extend?My wife observed, later that afternoon, that we were disconcertingly low on toilet paper. So I booted up the app and made a request: a 12-pack of two-ply from the local pharmacy, please, and maybe throw in a can of Pringles while you’re at it. It was Ro again assigned to the task. Ten minutes later I received a call from the store: they were out of Pringles, but how about the off-brand equivalent? That was our Ro. Resourceful to the last.Late on Saturday night, playing poker and drinking a glass of scotch, I felt a minor craving I knew only Favour could satisfy. I plugged in my desire and, naturally, Ro once again complied – still working so many hours later.In a half-hour there was a knock on the door. It was Ro, my prize in his hands: a single vanilla milkshake from McDonald’s, miraculously unmelted. No item, it seems, is too small or too frivolous to meet the Favour threshold. Let the languor run deep. For two bucks, you can get any ridiculous thing you want.
Digital music service Tidal has accused Apple of blocking it from streaming video of a charity-festival set by rapper Drake, but the star’s manager has retaliated by accusing the service of a “publicity stunt”.Drake played a mini-set at the Lil WeezyAna festival in New Orleans over the weekend, with the event streamed live by Tidal for its subscribers. While Drake was on stage, the stream was cut, with Tidal blaming Apple.“Apple is interfering with artistry and will not allow this artist to stream. Sorry for Big Brother’s inconvenience,” claimed a message shown to viewers, and also published by Tidal’s Twitter account.The New York Post reported thatApple had threatened a $20m lawsuitif Drake’s set was broadcast by Tidal, on the grounds that it has an exclusive contract with the musician relating to its recently-launched Apple Music streaming service.“Legal letters have been sent to Tidal warning that Drake cannot appear on the Tidal stream of the festival, either solo or part of a group, and if the warning was ignored, the liabilities could be up to $20 million,” claimed the Post’s source.1/2 Apple is interfering with artistry and will not allow this artist to stream. Sorry for Big Brother’s inconvenience.&mdash; TIDAL (@TIDALHiFi)August 29, 2015The story was quickly challenged by Drake’s manager, Future the Prince, who flatly denied that Apple had threatened legal action.“The decision to not have Drake participate in the Tidal steam has nothing to do with Apple or Drake’s deal. Point blank, 100%. I made a business decision,”he told BuzzFeed News.“Apple doesn’t have the power to stop us from being part of a live stream... If you’re going to say something about the situation publicly, you should tell the truth. They saw the opportunity to take a situation and spin it in their favor as a publicity stunt.”This kind of row may become more familiar in the months ahead, as Apple Music, Tidal, Spotify and other music-streaming services battle to strike exclusive deals with high-profile artists.Related:Apple Music interview: 'Algorithms can't do it alone – you need a human touch'While few musicians will restrict their entire back catalogues to a single streaming service, more may sign agreements setting out promotional commitments to a particular service - for example, recording live sessions - that bar them from providing similar content to rivals.Drake appeared on stage during the keynote session at Apple’s WWDC eventin June, when the company unveiled Apple Music. “This is something that simplifies everything for the modern musician like myself, and the modern consumer like you,” he said during a short speech.If the New York Post is to be believed, a $19m promotional deal may have simplified Drake’s decision to back Apple Music over rivals - although his music remains available on services like Spotify too.
Twitter has outlined its ambitions to boost the proportion of women and underrepresented minorities in its workforce, publishing targets for “a more diverse Twitter” in 2016.The social network is aiming to increase the percentage of women on its payroll to 35% that year, as well as ensuring that 16% of its tech roles and 25% of its leadership roles are filled by women.Those targets are global, but in the US specifically, Twitter is also aiming to increase the percentage of its staff who are “underrepresented minorities” to 11% in 2016, with 9% of tech roles and 6% of leadership roles filled by people in this group.“We want the makeup of our company to reflect the vast range of people who use Twitter. Doing so will help us build a product to better serve people around the world,” wrote the company’s vice president of diversity and inclusion, Janet Van Huysse, in ablog post announcing the goals.She stressed that Twitter is going beyond company-wide hiring goals for new employees and setting targets for its overall workforce. “We’re holding ourselves accountable to these measurable goals, as should you,” she wrote.Twitter’s diversity data in 2015.The targets are relatively modest: in July 2014,Twitter published its first diversity report, revealing that 30% of its staff were women, including 10% of tech roles and 21% of leadership roles.The report also revealed that 59% of Twitter’s US employees were white, 29% Asian, and 12% from other ethnic backgrounds - with just 49 of its 2,910 American workforce African American.Related:Facebook and Twitter users complain over Virginia shooting videos autoplay72% of Twitter’s leadership roles were held by people of white ethnicity, with a further 24% Asian, and just 4% by people with other ethnicities.Twitter has made progress on one of the two fronts: a year on from its first diversity report, the company says 34% of its staff are now women, including 13% of tech roles and 22% of leadership roles.However, its percentage of white employees has remained at 59%, while the percentage of Asian ethnicity has increased to 31%, leaving 10% from other ethnic backgrounds.72% of leadership roles at Twitter are held by white staff and 28% by Asian staff, with no representation at this level from other ethnicities.
The most popular channel on YouTube now belongs to British gamer Daniel Middleton, whose Minecraft videos published asThe Diamond Minecartwere watched more than 402m times in July 2015 alone.That was enough to make him the biggest channel on YouTube that month ahead of wrestling body WWE’s 399m views, according tothe latest chartpublished by analytics firm OpenSlate and online-video industry site Tubefilter.Another British channel, nursery-rhymes collectionLittle Baby Bum, was third in the rankings with 391m views in July, followed by BuzzFeed Video’s 382m views, and musician Taylor Swift’s 381m.It’s a mark of The Diamond Minecart’s rise, as well as sharp increases in views for the WWE and BuzzFeed Video channels in 2015, that the two channels that have traditionally topped this chart by some distance have fallen out of the top five.Gamer Felix “PewDiePie” Kjellberg’s channel was ranked sixth in July with 373m views, while toy-unboxing channel Fun Toyz Collector was seventh with 370m views.However, PewDiePie remains the top YouTube channel by subscribers, with more than 38.6 million people having signed up to get updates on his new videos through the service by the end of July. The Diamond Minecart had 7.5 million, likely reflecting his young audience.The top ten was rounded out by It’s Baby Big Mouth, Masha and the Bear and Popular MMOs, reinforcing the sense of YouTube as a service attracting huge audiences of children and gamers - with The Diamond Minecart’s child-friendly videos neatly straddling the two.Related:Minecraft YouTube videos were watched 3.9bn times in MarchMiddleton was one of the big draws at the Minecon Minecraft conferencein London in July, where he attracted a crowd of thousands of children and parents for a one-hour session blending live gameplay and answering questions from young fans.Middleton is signed to multi-channel network Maker Studios, which also counts PewDiePie - born in Sweden but currently living in Brighton in the UK - and another child-friendly British Minecraft gamer, Joseph “Stampy” Garrett, in its roster.According to the OpenSlate/Tubefilter chart, the top 100 YouTube channels collectively generated 17.3bn video views in July 2015, an 82% increase from the 9.5bn views recorded a year before in July 2014.
LBX: Little Battlers eXperience(3DS, Nintendo, cert: 7)Following the popular animeseries and toy lineLBX: Little Battlers eXperienceis a miniature robot-building and fighting game, with a focus on exploration and customisation that offers 130 basic robots with over 4,000 parts that can be fitted. In 2046, 13-year-old Van Yamano battles to protect his robot, Achilles, through a campaign that is supplemented with arena battles in 20 locations. Yamano can also take part in team battles via local multiplayer three-on-three rounds – provided each battler has a 3DS and copy of the game.Central to this engrossing title, of course, are the encounters that take place in an open city, desert or volcano. Here, developing strategies to suit the chosen robot’s fighting style and special attacks creates entertaining knife-edge showdowns. Familiarity with the widerLittle Battlers eXperiencebrand is not essential to the enjoyment of this great title, where attention to detail both in the aesthetics and intricate robot customisation creates a compelling game.ARZombi(PS4, Xbox One, PC, Ubisoft, cert: 18)The Wii U’s first survival horror title shambles on to new platforms looking, frankly, a little pale even for the undead.Zombiputs the player in the shoes of a string of survivors in a zombie-filled London. Guided by a paranoid survivalist, they have to fend off the horde with little more than a cricket bat and whatever can be scrounged from the environment. One bite is fatal and death is “permanent”, forcing you, now playing Survivor Two, to go out and grab gear from the zombified Survivor One.The originalZombi Udemonstrated what the Wii U’s quirky hardware was capable of. However, much of what made the original interesting – especially the use of the gamepad as a real-time inventory – have been folded into conventional gameplay. What’s left is a low-budgetDead Island.Zombilooks like a last-generation game, and overall its translation has been awkward, with frequent audio and graphical bugs which can trigger crashes. There’s not much to recommend here, as it lacks the charm of the original and does not stand out on current-gen.PHPicross e6(3DS, Jupiter Corporation, cert: 3)Unlikely as it may seem, there is a point where sudoku and painting by numbers intersects. Emerging first in print in Japan in the late 1980s, nonograms are logic puzzles that have images hidden in empty grids. A basic numeric code, when broken, maps out simple blocky pictures revealed through mathematic deduction.Nonograms are also known as picross puzzles, and lend that name to a long-running Nintendo handheld series. The latest release under that banner is Picross e6, which offers more than 300 grids to tackle, and a smattering of extra modes, which rework the basic nonogram concept.The game is an understated package, where form follows function absolutely. As such Picross e6 has a certain mechanical elegance, although it lacks flair and variety. The puzzles are certainly compelling – addictive even – and should give anybody beguiled by sudoku many happy hours with their brow furrowed. But if you’re looking for dazzling innovation in logic-puzzle design, this may underwhelm.WFStar ratings (out of five):LBX ★★★★Zombi ★★★Picross e6 ★★★Zombi: losing a lot in translation to other consoles.Picross e6: great for puzzle-heads, but not terribly inventive.Photograph: PR
When Microsoft programmer Kentaro Toyama was sent by his employers to India in 2004, charged with using technology to improve education, he expected to swoop in armed with gadgets and effect whizzy social change. It didn’t quite pan out like that. Toyama had some early successes at Microsoft Research India, including the invention of a device that allowed multiple mice-wielding pupils to control one computer at the same time. (MultiPoint, a problem-fixer for classrooms that had too few computers, won awards.) But he quickly came to see that technology was not the “magic cure” export his employers – and, indeed, many inSilicon Valley– seemed to expect.In his new book,Geek Heresy: Rescuing Social Change from the Cult of Technology, he writes that this was “hard to take. I was a computer scientist, a Microsoft employee, and the head of a group that aimed to find digital solutions for the developing world. I wanted nothing more than to see innovation triumph… But exactly where the need was greatest, technology seemed unable to make a difference.” He worked in schools that had been given computers but had no tech support, the broken-down hardware quickly ending up stacked in cupboards. He watched teachers struggle to cope with screen-enthused kids, for whom “a computer was less a help, more hindrance”.Back in the US, Toyama began to think more widely about the difference in expectation and reality as to the assistance afforded by technology in education. He tried teaching computer science in a classroom full of kids with laptops. He spoke to many parents who felt that, without lessons in the use of digital tools, their kids would be left behind. He saw CEOs and NGOs and politicians try to deal with social problems by hurling tech at them, and began to wonder if they weren’t missing the point. “I worked at a company whose soul was software,” he writes. “I felt disloyal doubting its value.”‘There is no end to solutions other than technology’: Kentaro Toyama in India.Illustration: Patrick LegerIn 2010, Toyama left Microsoft to take up a research fellowship at the University of California, Berkeley, and began to work on a thesis that finally becameGeek Heresy. His beliefs, indeed, are fairly heretical, given modern assumptions about the social benefits of technology – what Toyama now believes has a tendency to be “empty sloganeering that collapse[s] under critical thinking”. Tucked up beyond our laptops, smartphones, and tablets, Toyama writes, “we are unable to entertain alternatives to tech-driven, capitalist, liberal democracy, so we pronounce [technology] the ultimate salvation”.Currently a professor at the University of Michigan, Toyama calls me from his home in Ann Arbor, Michigan, to discuss his thesis. Appropriately enough, my iPhone crashes just as the call connects and I have to switch it off, wait for it to restart, email him, and wait for another call before we can speak.Did you fight tech-disillusionment at first?It was a gradual process and I fought it. I was in India, overseeing something like 50 different research projects, each one looking for a way to use digital technology to alleviate poverty in some way, through education, healthcare, government, agriculture and so on. And in quite a few of these projects the research pilots would go well. We would be able to show that under certain conditions technology seemed to help people. But as soon as we tried to take the project to other environments – especially environments where we thought the challenges most severe – we found that it didn’t make a difference how good the technology was, other factors prevented positive impact.When I looked closely at what those issues were, repeatedly it was lack of human capacity, lack of institutional capacity – in some cases corruption – dysfunction of various types. I’m a researcher, so my tendency is to want to find a pattern, and why this pattern persists. The only conclusion I could come to is that technology is secondary – ultimately the people and the institutions matter the most.What really makes Silicon Valley work is not the technology, but highly motivated, talented peopleKentaro ToyamaWas that hard to accept?I grew up in a mentality in which science and technology and engineering are the ultimate salvation for civilisation. And I’ve come to think that beginning with such an assumption is dangerous, because it rules out all kinds of other solutions that would seem to be more suited to addressing problems. I routinely hear people say, “You suggest technology doesn’t solve social problems” – and then with a completely straight face they add, “But what else is there?” Well, there is no end to other types of solution! It’s just that if you think of technology as the primary one, then it’s hard to even think of others.Can you give an example?If a large corporation becomes sufficiently powerful, maybe what we need to do is have policies that ensure some percentage of the board is elected by the public. The current way corporations work is that, as long as they’re not breaking specific laws, they can almost do as they please with the money they accumulate. But increasingly we’re in a world where a few powerful corporations have tremendous influence over the lives of billions of people and not all of that is accountable to the public in any way, shape or form. That to me is a political issue. That could be fixed, perhaps by having half the board of directors elected. That’s not a technological solution.Will you have horrified your old colleagues at Microsoft with this book?Responses I get from people who might have held similar views to mine before [I went to India] are mixed. There are people from whom I get a somewhat hostile reaction. From some there’s begrudging acceptance. You know, very few people will stand firm on a perspective that technology in and of itself solves deep social problems. And yet I do think people tend to act in a way that suggests they believe that.Why the disconnect there?I think there’s a natural, almost instinctive desire to want to see ingenious innovations triumph. And to a great extent, those of us who are wealthier and better educated in the world have benefited from the last 200 years of technological innovation. So it’s hard to shake that. That was true even for me. I was never an extreme techno-utopian, but I had this intuitive feeling that in general more technology was better, and it took seeing that it doesn’t actually work in practice for the realisation to sink in.Related:It may be the age of machines, but it's up to humans to save the world | Kentaro ToyamaDo you risk becoming a pariah?Certainly I don’t get a huge amount of support from the technology community in saying these things. But I have to say, on my book tour I went to several places that could be argued to be centres of the belief that technology is going to save the world, and they were at least listening to the message even if they didn’t thoroughly agree.The technology industry has become better and better at saying the right things, even if their [outward-looking] tendencies do not necessarily align… It’s not just the technology sector, by the way. It’s also organisations like theWorld Bank. Their focus is international development, and often when you look at their projects, they’re technology-centric – even though the people there themselves, in a common refrain, would say, “Technology only addresses 10% of problems. The remaining 90% of problems are human issues.”So it’s almost a case of: “This is true for us, that’s true for them?”Absolutely. I’ve noticed a tendency in America for richer, better-educated parents to work harder and harder at trying to keep technology away from their own children. In Silicon Valley there are these Waldorf schools, very expensive, a lot of the children are the children of technology company [employees]. And these schools ban electronics until the pupils are 13 or 14. Isn’t it hypocritical for those same parents to turn around at their jobs and try to push more technology into disadvantaged children’s lives?So your suspicions apply to the developed world too?Yes. One thing I’m coming across is that among less-educated parents there is a belief that greater exposure to technology makes your children more likely to have a job in the technology sector. Which is as silly as believing that if you can drive a car, you could be hired as an engineer at a car manufacturing plant.To me it seems as if there’s some preying on parental fears. There’s something fishy going on – among politicians you can see this very clearly. It’s really easy to get a great photo op out of handing a child a computer. And children, of course, will be overjoyed at the beginning because they’re basically being handed a terrific toy. On the other hand, it’s very difficult to take a photograph of improvements to the management of a school… I think politicians understand this very well.‘Putting a child in front of a computer and assuming they’ll do the right thing is a great mistake’: A baby girl plays on an iPad.Photograph: JPagetRMphotos/AlamyYou write: “There’s a big difference between learning the digital tools of modern life… and learning the critical skills necessary for an information age.” Do you think there should be less focus in schools on learning to use computers?You know, the funny thing is, as the technology gets better and better, it gets less and less important we teach our children how to use it, because it becomes so much easier to learn the technology. What’s not being taught through exposure to technology, in and of itself, are things like the basic mathematics that you need to become a good engineer, or the writing and communication skills you need to be a good journalist. It’s not the tools that we use that define us, it’s the underlying capacities.For some reason we treat visual technology in a completely different way than we treat other technology. We wouldn’t sit a five-year-old in a car and let them do whatever they want, because we believe when they grow up they’ll need to learn how to drive. Putting a child in front of a computer and assuming they’re going to do the right things is a great mistake… Look at any child with a smartphone today. They’re not doing maths problems. They’re playingAngry Birds.As a teacher you taught computer studies to a room of eight- to 10-year-olds with laptops. What happened?I thought it would be a breeze. It turned out to be the hardest class I’ve ever taught. I was amazed how quickly they could find games, even after I thought we’d cleaned the laptops of games completely… as soon as my back was turned. Even in a class that was supposed to be promoting computer literacy, the other teachers closely managed how often the laptops were even open.Another fail for tech.Simply having screen time is not equivalent to a real education.Away from education, what do tech advocates get wrong when it comes to trying to address other social problems?The overall mistake people make is that they associate Silicon Valley with being a successful hub of activity, period. They think there must be something about Silicon Valley that you could spread. And then there’s a generalisation that because Silicon Valley generates technology, it must be the technology that makes things better. But what really makes Silicon Valley work is not that they use technology, but that they’re highly talented, highly motivated people who are constantly thinking about being entrepreneurs. It’s that human side that is resulting in them producing technology that the rest of the world wants. You know, if you could bottle the talent, and the entrepreneurial drive, and spreadthataround, I think that would have some value in the developing world.Have you changed any minds yet?It’s been difficult. Often when I talk about this the people in the audience are open to be persuaded. But they’ll tell me it’s the people above them in management – the senior executives, the CEOs, who simply won’t entertain the idea that it’s not technology that’s going to change the world. Maybe that’s what it takes to be that kind of executive. You have to so solidly believe in the technology mission, you can’t entertain other ideas.Geek Heresy is published by Perseus Books (£18.99).Click here to order a copy for £15.19
Anita Sarkeesiandoesn’t give me the address of her San Francisco apartment over email. Instead, she texts it to me a few hours before we’re set to meet. After thousands of rape and death threats, abomb scareandan email promising a mass shootingat one of her speaking events, a woman can’t be too careful.Sarkeesian, media critic and executive director of the nonprofit and video web seriesFeminist Frequency, has spent the past few years of her life at the centre of a firestorm in the gaming community – one that brings together misogyny, technology and a cultural shift in an industry so huge it nowoutperforms Hollywood. In videos that discuss misogyny in video games and widespread tropes that diminish women, Sarkeesian – named one ofthe 100 most influential people of 2015 by Time magazine– talks to the camera, with a commentary that runs the gamut from feminist theory to historical analysis. Her videos are smart, incisive and much needed in an industry in which women are often treated as little more thanbackground decorationordamsels in distress.For some male gaming aficionados, the most frightening enemy isn’t an animated foe but this 31-year-old feminist with a penchant for hoop earrings, sitting across from me. They’ve called Sarkeesian a con artist, and raised thousands of dollars to film an exposé-style documentary about her (which exposes nothing). Some even created a game in which users can punch an image of her face until it is bloodied.Sarkeesian, who wears red glasses that match her dye-tipped hair, is extraordinarily friendly and upbeat, considering the level of vitriol directed at her. “It has less to do with the actual content of the work than with ‘How dare a woman say anything about our toys’ – especially a feminist,” she tells me. We sit in her living room, whose walls are covered in whiteboards that neatly outline ideas for future videos and projects.Some male gamers call her a con artist. Some created a game for users to punch an image of her face until it is bloodiedSarkeesian started Feminist Frequency in 2009, while at graduate school, studying social and political thought. She found academia somewhat alienating: “The texts are impossible to read if you’re not trained, and I wondered why we would lock away this information for just a privileged group of people.” The feminist theory she read seemed more approachable: “bell hooksused media in the classroom to engage with her students; that idea of pop culture being a common language really resonated with me.”Sarkeesian began making videos that took on pop culture, from television shows tothe Twilight series. In 2012, she decided to dedicate a series of videos to the topic of computer games. She launched a Kickstarter project to fund herTropes vs Women In Video Gamesweb series, with a modest goal of $6,000. The target was met in 24 hours, and within two weeks she had raised nearly four times that much. That’s when the harassment started: peoplevandalised her Wikipedia pagewith gender-based slurs, and herYouTube videoswere hit with a barrage of abuse. Sarkeesian had been harassed online before – “I’m a woman on the internet!” she says – but she had never been attacked by a mob.It wasn’t just the open hatred: there were multiple attempts to hack into her accounts and expose her. “They tried to get my Kickstarter cancelled and reported me to the FBI and the IRS. They tried to post my home address and my parents’ information,” she says.But the vitriol sparked more interest and support, and by the time her Kickstarter ended, Sarkeesian had raised almost $160,000. The attacks haven’t stopped since: some detractors have manipulated images of Sarkeesian to make them appear pornographic, or depicted images of her being raped by video game characters. All because a woman wanted to make a YouTube series about video games.While Sarkeesian admits the harassment has taken its toll – how could it not? – she brings the conversation back to the bigger picture. “There are a lot of people who are being targeted who don’t get the attention I do. Women of colour and trans women, in particular, are not getting media attention and not getting the support they need.”Sarkeesian also points out that explicit abuse is just one way women are harassed online: some are targeted with conspiracy theories, or social media accounts that impersonate the victim. One personfabricated a tweetfrom Sarkeesian claiming she had spent her Kickstarter funds on designer shoes (with a picture of Gucci flats alongside a caption reading, “Buying 1,000-dollar shoes”).Women aremuch more likely to be severely harassedin online spaces than men, and the harassment is much more likely to be sexually violent. A 2006 study by theUniversity of Marylandfound that when the gender of a username appears to be female, the user is 25 times more likely to experience harassment. That same study found that those female-sounding usernames averaged 163 threatening or sexually explicit messages a day.A video from Feminist Frequency, tackling the idea of the damsel in distress in folklore.So the abuse directed at Sarkeesian struck a nerve, and in 2012, she was invited to givea TED talk on the topic. Since then, she’s been on the cover ofBloomberg Businessweekmagazine and has appearedon the satirical TV show The Colbert Report. “The media tends to pull individuals out to be icons,” Sarkeesian says, “but there are a lot of people involved in ending online harassment.”***Before Sarkeesian became the face of online abuse and sexism in gaming, she says, “I was definitely a person who said, ‘I’m not a feminist, but I believe in equal rights.’” Raised by Armenian parents from Iraq who later moved to Canada, she was brought up in a household open to new ideas; politics was always a backdrop to her life. She recalls watching news stories about the Gulf war and worrying with her parents about what was going to happen to family there.Feminism, however, wasn’t on her radar. She tells me it was reading Ariel Levy’s bookFemale Chauvinist Pigsthat opened her eyes. “I realised I was trying to be one of the guys and obtain this false sense of power,” she says. “I had more male friends, and would say things like, ‘Oh, women are annoying.’ I would speak in objectifying terms about other women.”Around the time she was discovering feminism, as a student in southern California, Sarkeesian became a campus activist. “I read a lot of bell hooks,” she says. “And I was learning about systems of privilege and oppression – and feminism was just one piece of that. You learn about white supremacy, and heteronormativity, and I found that to be really liberating. I realised: now I know how the world works, and now I understand how to change it. And it’s really hard.”A 2006 study found that when a username appears to be female, the person is 25 times more likely to be harassedIt got even harder onceGamerGatehappened. For the uninitiated, GamerGate is a Twitter hashtag, which became an online movement that purported to be about journalistic ethics, but which actually focuses on attacking and harassing women such as Sarkeesian.She is frustrated by the way GamerGate has been covered in the media. “All the stories kept decentring the fact that it was domestic violence,” she says. Indeed, the movement was born when a 25-year-old software developer namedEron Gjoniposted a 10,000-word blog about his ex-girlfriend, video game designerZoe Quinn. In the blog, he recounted the minutiae of their relationship and outlined her supposed wrongdoings and infidelities. Quinn has said, “It is domestic abuse that went viral, and it was designed to go viral.” (Gjoni linked to the blogpost in forums such as 4chan, well known for vicious online harassment.)And it did go viral. Quinn was inundated with rape and death threats, her accounts were hacked, her address, phone number and even some nude photographs were made public. She subsequently went into hiding. What horrible truth did Gjoni’s post reveal to make Quinn one of the most hated women in gaming? It depends who you ask.To GamerGaters, Gjoni’s post laid bare how female game designers get preferential treatment from the media – leading to the movement’smuch-mocked mantra, “It’s about ethics in journalism.” (Quinn allegedly had a relationship with a journalist who wrote aboutone of her games; in fact, the journalist wrote about its existence, never offering a review.) But to others, it was a natural extension of sexist harassment and the fear of female encroachment on a traditionally male space.Besides, as Sarkeesian points out, if this “movement” was about journalism, why wasn’t it journalists who had to deal with a barrage of rape and death threats?The truth, Sarkeesian says, is that GamerGate existed for years before it had a name: the same core players, the same harassment, the same abuse. The hashtag just put a name on this “loosely organised mob” that attacked women in gaming, she tells me.At Time magazine’s 100 Gala for the most influential people of 2015. ‘The media tends to pull individuals out to be icons,’ Sarkeesian says.Photograph: Taylor Hill/Getty ImagesSarkeesian is also fond of calling GamerGate a “sexist temper tantrum”, because “it does have that feeling of the kid screaming and you don’t know why”. When I point out that temper tantrums are generally thought of as harmless rages, and that the abuse she and other women have faced is much more serious, she agrees.“That’s the reason I don’t like the words ‘troll’ and ‘bully’ – it feels too childish. This is harassment and abuse,” she says. But still, she says, GamerGate is a temper tantrum: “It’s just a scary, violent, abusive, temper tantrum. It’s an attack and an assault on women in the gaming industry. Its purpose is to silence women, and if they can’t, they attempt to discredit them.“These dudes fling shit. They’re throwing things out there and trying to get something to stick. This worked,” she says of the Quinn incident. “It stuck because it sounds good – there are actual issues with the way the games press works. So that idea resonated with a lot of people. And it swelled their ranks.”I mention that I’ve noticed an uptick of younger online abusers. Ten years ago, the harassment I received (not uncommon for feminist writers) was mostly from middle-aged men. Today, I get comments calling me a “cunt” on Instagram from boys too young to grow facial hair.While Sarkeesian is careful to point out that the stereotype of teenagers in their parents’ basement is a dangerous one (much of the most dangerous harassment is perpetrated by grown men) she shares my concern that a younger generation is growing up with harassment of women not just as the norm, but as a way to impress your peers.“There’s a boys’-locker-room feel to the internet, where men feel they can show off for one another,” she says. “A lot of the harassment is tied to this toxic masculine culture of ‘Look how cool I can be.’” Someone will send a woman a death threat and screencap it, posting it on a forum, which in turn inspires another man to do something even worse in a horrifying game of misogynist oneupmanship.Sarkeesian’s strategy for dealing with her most persistent harassers is largely to block and ignore them. “There are men who make videos about me regularly. Some are just screaming; some hold guns while they talk about hating me. I don’t engage with them, as I don’t want to amplify their voices.”Many of these men will insist it’s all for fun, or just a joke, but whether the intent is to harm, or simply to do some chest-puffing for friends, “it still perpetuates all of the harmful myths attached to that language and those words,” Sarkeesian says. Besides, it’s not as if this harassment ends online. She can’t just shut her laptop and get on with her life; the threats have made an indelible impact on who she is and how she lives.The day before a planned speech at Utah State University last year, the university’s administration received an email threatening a mass shooting: “This will be the deadliest school shooting in American history, and I’m giving you a chance to stop it,” it read. The sender used the name of a man who killed more than a dozen women in Montreal in 1989 after calling them “a bunch of feminists”.Sarkeesian cancelled the speech after event organisers refused to install metal detectors.“I’ve been threatened before, and done events, but they were not going to stop people from bringing guns into the audience,” she says. (Utah has “open carry” laws, meaning it is legal openly to carry a gun in public.) “This isn’t just about me, but the students’ safety as well.”At a speaking engagement last year, a man came up with his hands in his pockets. 'I'm thinking, "Does he have a knife?"'Also in 2014, when Sarkeesian was due to be honoured with a gaming award in San Francisco,an anonymous email was sent promising to detonate a bomb unless the award was revoked. This time, Sarkeesian says the event organisers worked with her to ensure everyone’s safety. The police bomb unit found nothing and the awards ceremony went ahead as planned.“Yeah, it’s really weird that I try to sit at the back of restaurants, or have my back to windows so no one recognises me,” Sarkeesian says. “Or if someone stops me on the street to ask for directions, I feel as if I’m going to have a panic attack. I’ve had to learn not to trust people, not to be friendly with strangers, because you never know if it’s going to be a threat.”After a recent talk she gave at New York University, a young man came up to talk to her, with his hands in the pockets of his hoodie. “The whole time I’m thinking, ‘Does he have a knife in there?’ and he’s oblivious because he doesn’t have to think about it.” It turned out the young man was just extremely nervous, but after all that’s happened, you can’t blame Sarkeesian for being fearful.“It sucks,” she says. “It really sucks, and I don’t want to think too much about it, because I can’t do anything about it. It’s my new normal.”Part of the problem, as Sarkeesian sees it, is a historical one. “I’ve talked to mentors and older feminists and they say, ‘We were dealing with that, but they were throwing rocks at us.’”When the internet began, Sarkeesian says, the idea was that it was going to be the “ultimate democracy”. WhenI wrote about online harassment for the Guardian in 2007, postgraduate student Alice Marwick – now a professor at Fordham University in New York – told me, “The promise of the early internet was that it would liberate us from our bodies, and all the oppressions associated with prejudice. We’d communicate soul to soul, and get to know each other as people, rather than judging each other based on gender or race.” But because the default, assumed identity was white and male, anyone who brought up their race or gender – or dared to complain about bias – was seen as disturbing that dream.At a Women in the World summit in April. A recent speaking engagement in San Francisco prompted a bomb hoax.Photograph: Andrew Toth/Getty Images“We didn’t build up this technology [while] understanding the power dynamics and the very real systems of oppression that were just going to follow us online,” Sarkeesian says. “One of the profound things the feminist movement and the civil rights movement did was to change the systems we live in. They didn’t stop every individual being sexist or racist, but they changed the systems that we participated in, so you couldn’t be that way in certain environments.”So, while it’s no longer acceptable for a boss to smack a female employee’s behind at work – and we can thank feminism for that – men are still getting rewarded with social status online for abusing women. We haven’t figured out how to change that system. At least, not yet.Sarkeesian has been meeting social media and technology companies, talking to them about how they can help stop gender-based abuse in gaming. Because, ultimately, this is a problem that needs solutions from the top as well as the bottom. “Where was the gaming industry in all this?” she asks. “GamerGate was a silver platter for them to say they don’t condone the harassment of women and they didn’t do it. GamerGate is the monster that the industry created.”Independent developers tell Sarkeesian her work makes them want to create better games. “People come up to me at events and tell me how much my work has meant to them and that it has helped them to speak up,” she says. At conferences, she can’t get from one end of the room to the other without people in the industry telling her how much they like what she’s doing.That’s wonderful, Sarkeesian acknowledges, but she wants to know: “What are you doing? Because what is my work if you’re not going to do something about it, too?”Sarkeesian is exhausted – she hasn’t taken a break since 2012 – but she’s not willing to give up. Even with the death threats, the obsessive abusers, the fear and the enormous personal cost, she asks a question asked by so many change-makers: “How can I give up now? I’m not going anywhere.”• This article was amended on 2 September 2015 to clarify that women are much more likely to be severelyharassed in online spaces than men.
Friends of mine already have the Volvo XC90, the previous incarnation, which to all intents and purposes is the same, only not so safe. (When I say “not so safe”, that is within the margin of “extremely safe: I would look as safe to an inhabitant of the 80s or 90s as a Bugaboo would look to a person on a ski lift”.) The new version has its sensors and its autobraking, its blind spot information system, its cross traffic alert (a lane discipline feature, basically) and its intelligent cruise control, which effectively enables you not only to stop driving but also to go to sleep. It’s a progressive version of the mega-car, cocooning its inhabitants but paying more than lip service to the fact that it is also nice not to kill cyclists.Back to my friends – I asked them what they thought of the previous model, and the man said: “This is really a criticism of myself more than the car – when all you ever do is drive two miles down a gentle hill, and then two miles back up, this is the worst car imaginable.” The woman said: “I like the automatic tailgate, it’s designed so you can sit on it and take your wellies off. But when all you ever walk on is pavement…” It’s not an urban car, or if you think it is – you see them everywhere – then you’re not an urban person.Imagining you’re in the country, it’s got a huge amount to recommend it: the acceleration is beefy but steady; the fuel consumption is better than you’d expect. It is an active pleasure to hear it moving through its gears (it’s an eight-speed automatic); finely tuned, pushing the most out of each one, never any strain. It has the solidity that is the entire reason anyone would become an executive rather than live in a tree: nothing will fox this car, not your active lifestyle (it could take 100kg of bike on the roof), nor your ridiculous boat (2,700kg on the tow ball). And that’s before you surrender to the leather plushness, a nine-inch satnav screen so sharp and clean you could watch Top Gun on it.Nevertheless, the size and height of it – two metric tonnes of smooth electric silver, a driving position that dwarfs everyone but bus drivers – means that it’s like wearing boots when everyone else is wearing shoes. What this does to your driving personality will depend very much on your regular personality. I had to have a very hard look at myself at the end of this review, and I didn’t like what I saw. I did like the car, though, so you know, swings and roundabouts. You would not have liked me on a roundabout.Volvo XC90 D5 in numbersPrice£61,880Top speed137mphAcceleration0-62mph in 7.8 secondsCombined fuel consumption48.7mpgCO2emissions152g/kmEco rating6/10Cool rating6/10
The chief executive of extramarital affairs website Ashley Madison has left the company after a third leak of emails and suggestions that he had affairs despite earlier denials.“Effective today, Noel Biderman, in mutual agreement with the company, is stepping down as Chief Executive Officer of Avid Life Media Inc (ALM) and is no longer with the company,” said an unattributed statement onthe Ashley Madison website. “Until the appointment of a new CEO, the company will be led by the existing senior management team.”In July details of more than37m accountswere stolen from the website, whose tagline is: “Life is short. Have an affair.” The company is now being sued foremotional distressand Canadian police are investigating links between the hack andtwo suicides.The company said that Biderman’s resignation was “in the best interest of the company and allows us to continue to provide support to our members and dedicated employees” and that it remained “steadfast in our commitment to our customer base”.Related:Ashley Madison 'discussed hacking competitor site'That customer base’s personal information wasspread far and wide across the internetearlier this month, with even those who hadpaid $20 (£15) to delete their accountsbeing exposed, with police tying multiple blackmail attempts andat least two suicidesto the leak.“We are actively adjusting to the attack on our business and members’ privacy by criminals,” the company wrote, saying that it would remain in business. Biderman has been notable by his silence over the course of the scandal, with police and security researcher Brian Krebs communicating much of the available information.Krebs hasposted new information on the hack, including a possible lead: a Twitter user (or, as Krebs speculates, users) calledThadeus Zuposted a link to the hack before anyone else and appears to have had special knowledge of the data breach before anyone else did.Toronto police say at least two suicides may be linked to the hacking of infidelity websiteAshley Madison which exposed exposed tens of millions of people’s personal informationThe third and latest data dump, posted at the site that first released the user database, appears to be a download of emails from Biderman’s personal Gmail account. The second torrent – released by an entity calling itself the Impact Team – contained emails that seemed to be from Biderman’s work account and its release had already done damage to his personal reputation: the executivetold the New York Daily News in 2014that he had never cheated on his wife, but the hacked documents suggested otherwise.• In the US and Canada, the National Suicide Prevention Hotline is1-800-273-8255. In the UK, the Samaritans can be contacted on 08457 90 90 90. In Australia, the crisis support service Lifeline is on 13 11 14. Hotlines in other countriescan be found here.
On Monday, one in seven people on Earth used Facebook – 1 billion people,according to founder Mark Zuckerberg. In a decade, the social network has transformed people’s relationships, privacy, their businesses, the news media, helped topple regimes and even changed the meaning of everyday words.“A more open and connected world is a better world. It brings stronger relationships with those you love, a stronger economy with more opportunities, and a stronger society that reflects all of our values,” wrote Zuckerberg in the post announcing the numbers.These are just some of the ways his company changed everything – for better or worse.Facebook has changed the definition of “friend”“To friend” is now a verb. And unlike real life when the ending of a friendship can be deeply traumatic, it is easy to “de-friend”, a word invented to describe ditching a casual acquaintance when they are no longer enhancing your Facebook newsfeed.Although the meaning of the words “share” and “like” are essentially the same, Facebook has brought an entirely new weight to the terms.Woman is touching the like button. Facebook has brought a new weighting to the term.Photograph: AlamyHigh school and university reunions have become redundant – you already know whose career is going well, whether the perfect pair have split and you’ve seen endless pictures of your schoolmates’ babies. You won’t be surprised by an ex in the street with a new girlfriend or boyfriend: you already know they’re dating someone else from the romantic selfies.But unlike in real life, Facebook has no hierarchy of friendships. A classmate from one project at university who you haven’t seen in 15 years, a friend-of-a-friend from a stag do, or a colleague you’ve never actually spoken to in person – they are all Facebook friends in the same way as your closest mate, or your spouse, or your mum.It doesn’t necessarily mean we see them the same way. Prof Robin Dunbar is famous for his research that suggests a person can only have roughly 150 people as a social group. Facebook hasn’t changed that yet, he believes,but in an interview with the New Yorker, Dunbar said he feared it was so easy simply to end friendships on Facebook that eventually there may no longer be any need to learn to get along.Related:Zuckerberg: one in seven people on the planet used Facebook on Monday“In the sandpit of life, when somebody kicks sand in your face, you can’t get out of the sandpit. You have to deal with it, learn, compromise,” he said. “On the internet, you can pull the plug and walk away. There’s no forcing mechanism that makes us have to learn.”We care less about privacyThere’s a wise saying – if you’re not paying for it, you’re the product. Facebook embodies that philosophy and created an entire industry from it. The astonishing thing is that users know that and they willingly hand over that information.Pew Research Centre foundmost young people more than willing to hand over their details. An overwhelming majority of 91% post a photo of themselves, 71% post the city or town where they live, up from 61%, more than half give email addresses and a fifth give their phone number.More than 80% list their interests, allowing brands to target them most effectively. But most younger users do restrict their profiles, with 60% allowing friends only.But as so much of a person’s life is shared online, Facebook gives a platform for everyone to cultivate an image and a fanbase. In an article for the Frontiers in Psychology journal, academics described a new phenomenon, the emergence of the “Facebook self”.People are more willing to share private information.Photograph: Dado Ruvic/Reuters“Several cases (7.5%) with large gaps between the true and false Facebook-self were detected, which implies that future research should consider the adverse consequences and treatments of high levels of false Facebook-self,”the research said.Facebook has created millions of jobs – but not in its own officesFacebook has essentially created an entire sector, including indirect employment for people whose job it is to make the platform work for their brand.Related:Facebook urged to tighten privacy settings after harvest of user data“It is a tool like no other,” said Michael Tinmouth, a social media strategist who has worked with brands such as Vodafone and Microsoft. “Marketers have an understanding of a brand’sconsumerslike they have never had before. The data and analytics available to you are extraordinary. You know who your customers are, who they are friends with and how they engage with your brand.”And advertisers pay a lot for that. Facebook reported ad revenue was up 46%, reaching $3.32bn.The sector based around Facebook is booming, Tinmouth says. “What was a community manager 10 years ago? There are hundreds of agencies which exist specifically for social media. It is an entire ecosystem for media, marketing, sales and technology. The question is now, how do you cut through the noise, and how do you keep control of the conversation?”That last question means Facebook is also a minefield for brands. Suddenly, rather than complaint conversations taking place over the phone with a customer service representative, or on a small specialist internet forum, angry customers can post their complaints for hundreds of their friends to see, or even on the page where all loyal fans of the brand have been carefully cultivated.And an injustice can go viral.Political parties who focus on Facebook winFor the UK 2015 general election, both main parties – Labour and the Conservatives – showed how important social media was for their campaigns by importing the consultants of the world’s first real social media election – the 2008 victory of Barack Obama in the US. The Tories hired Jim Messina, Obama’s 2008 campaign manager, and Labour had Matthew McGregor, who was on the frontline for the online fight against Mitt Romney in 2012.Barack Obama on the final day of his first US presidential campaign in 2008.Photograph: Paul J. Richards/AFP/Getty ImagesBut the parties who ruthlessly focussed on Facebook came out on top. Both the Conservatives and Scottish National party’s social media managers told Channel 4 News that the platform was their main concern. The Conservatives were said to have spent £120,000 a month on Facebook, on Messina’s advice, because they could target floating voters accurately, rather than waste time having “1 million conversations” like Labour.“Political parties, like any other brands, have the opportunity to say ‘actually, these are the sort of people that we need to reach out to, these are the sort of messages they need to receive’ – and then you can pay for advertising to get those right messages to the right people at the right time,” Craig Elder, the Conservatives’ digital directortold Channel 4. “We knew that we could be very targeted and reach out to the people in the places that were going to decide this election.”Kirk Torrance, the SNP’s digital strategist, had a different but equally effective approach to using Facebook: “This idea of the SNP everywhere – all the activity, all the photographs – any kind of proof, social proof, that the momentum was with the SNP.”Facebook has been the tool to organise revolutionsThough the Arab spring was dubbed the Twitter revolution, organising demonstrations and direct action has been revolutionised by Facebook.Manchester University’s Olga Onuch foundFacebook had been the key medium for reaching half of all the Euromaidan protesters in Ukraine.Related:Ukraine's Maidan protests - one year onFacebook posts signalled the start of theMaidan protestsduring the hours after it was announced that Ukraine would not sign a free trade and association agreement with the EU, Onuch found. The posts organised live action, not just online anger. Mustafa Nayyem, the Ukraine activist,posted:“Guys, let’s be serious. If you really want to do something, don’t just ‘like’ this post. Write that you are ready, and we can try to start something. Let’s meet near the monument to independence in the middle of theMaidan.”Many of those interviewed in Onuch’s research said theyrelied on Facebookfor the truth about what was happening – unable to trust traditional media.But the barrier between social media activism and actual revolution was a source of frustration for many Onuch interviewed. “Our findings show that [social media] use had both a unifying effect, creating a collective identity and shared language of a civic struggle for rights, but also made free-riding easier and more satisfying – since ‘liking’ a protest event gave individuals the feeling that they had contributed to the cause,”she wrote.Facebook makes news, breaks news, and decides what is newsRoughly 71% of 18- to 24-year-olds say the internet is their main news source, and 63% of users overall,according to the Pew Research Centre. About a third of Facebook users post about politics and government.Most people will first encounter a piece of journalism or an item of breaking news via Facebook or other social media, and most of those encounters will be on mobiles. Individual articles are now a news brand’s showcase, not the site’s homepage.Users might never have to leave the site to get their news: Instant Articles -which the Guardian has signed up to– will see stories run within Facebook. It allows news companies to sell ads around their articles, gaining them 100% of that revenue, while Facebook can also sell ads around that article, with 70% of the revenue from the social network’s advertising also going to the news companies.Opposition supporters talk near graffiti in Tahrir Square in Cairo, Egypt. Revolutions and protests have been organised on the social network.Photograph: Steve Crisp/ReutersGreg Marra, the Facebook engineer who designs the site’s news feed, told the New York Times he does not see the site’s role like that of an editor. But some sites rest their fortunes entirely on Facebook shares – in December 2013, when Facebook decided users no longer liked the “clickbait” teaser headlines from sites like Upworthy and Distractify, the sites saw huge dips in traffic. But their method of writing headlines had hugely influenced legacy brands.Related:How to use Facebook to win customersFacebook has also changed the ways journalists write stories. It is a resource many reporters cannot now live without. For better or (often) worse, it is a directory to find, contact, and glean information for almost any ordinary person, who might suddenly find themselves at the centre of the day’s biggest news story. Facebook has its own newswire,sharing the most useful user reactionto breaking stories, including pictures and videos.Users are changing FacebookIt used to be a site to get college students connected, with only an elite number of US universities allowed access.In 2014, a decade after its launch, 56% of internet users aged 65 and older have a Facebook account. And 39% are connected to people they have never met in person.Groups have given way to pages, writing on each other’s walls is passé and carefully curated albums have given way to instant mobile uploads. More than ever, the site is a gateway not just to your friends, but to the rest of the internet.We may as well get used to it, said David Kirkpatrick, author of The Facebook Effect. “It might very well go away further down the road, but something this big takes a long time to disappear,” he told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme. “Facebook has proven its ability to morph, and it will continue to be a very, very major player.”
The summer holidays are either over or nearly over depending where your child is in the world. Parents are breathing a sigh of relief at the prospect of making a cup of tea without being screamed at / bundled into / forced to referee an over-aggressive game of split-screen Minecraft.And their children? They’re back at school learning, then coming home every night eager to continue the education on whatever devices at hand. Or, alternatively, to continue eagerly smashing one another’s blocky windows.Related:The best apps of 2014 for Android, iPhone and iPadBut seriously, there are some excellent educational apps out there, blending serious learning with well-crafted production values and a sense of fun. They can complement (not replace) reading books, physical play and conversation in expanding on what children are learning in school.I’ve picked out 10 of the best examples, swerving pure games and individual stories – as good as the latter can be for early and developing readers – in favour of apps with other kinds of educational intent.Where you see “IAP” that means In-App Purchases: I’ve tried to explain how they work in the relevant reviews, so you know what you might be charged for.Endless Wordplay.Endless Wordplay(Free + IAP)iOS / AndroidDeveloper Originator Kids has made a series of educational apps under its “Endless” brand, and they’re all marvellous: deploying cartoon monsters in the service of teaching children to spell, count and string numbers together. Endless Wordplay is the latest, with rhyming word puzzles and animated sequences that will have children and parents alike laughing. The app is structured into “lessons” with a few included for free, and others buyable by parents in virtual packs.The Everything Machine.The Everything Machine(£2.49)iOSIf you grew up messing around with switches and circuit-boards, The Everything Machine will bring back some fond memories. It encourages children to use the various features of their iOS device, from its camera and microphone to its accelerometer, to create virtual machines on-screen – even running across multiple devices. It’s a digital sandbox, but crucially, one that may inspire kids to delve deeper into micro-electronics in the real world. The app has online resources for parents and children too: a PDF manual and a YouTube channel to spark ideas.Tynker.Tynker(Free + IAP)iOS / AndroidTynker is one of a clutch of admirable apps – see also Scratch Jr and Hopscotch HD - that aim to introduce children to programming. In this case, that happens over a series of coding lessons, as kids complete tasks by dragging and dropping blocks of code into place, and running the results to see what happens. There’s a free-play mode to create their own programs once they’re comfortable, and a recent update added the ability to control external hardware, including drones. Some of its puzzles are free, while others are sold in £1.49 packs via in-app purchase.Toca Lab.Toca Lab(£2.49)iOS / AndroidIf you’ve ever considered buying your children a chemistry kit, then balked at the prospect of the cat / bedroom / surrounding neighbourhood getting blown up, Toca Lab may be a safe alternative. It’s a fun app for younger children introducing them to the idea of elements, and how they might change when heated up, cooled down, shaken, magnetised or mixed. Each element is represented by a cute character, although the effects are made up. Rather than an accurate chemistry simulator, then, it’s a playful introduction to the topic – and, again, one that may inspire children to explore further when their device is put away.Hopster.Hopster(£3.99 a month)iOS / AndroidCan you learn much from watching TV as a child? Several generations unable to count to 10 without laughing like a vampire thanks to Sesame Street would suggest you can. Hopster is a very modern attempt to investigate the educational potential not just of watching, but playing. It’s a bit like a Netflix purely for kids: a £3.99-a-month subscription service with a catalogue of cartoons and shows, many of which will be familiar from broadcast TV. Here, they come paired with simple, accessible learning games including phonics, letter-tracing and creative tasks.WonderBox.WonderBox(Free)iOSMore children than you’d think are using Instagram, even though they’re not supposed to until they turn 13. And tens of millions of children are watching videos on YouTube, even though there’s a lot of inappropriate material there. WonderBox is an inventive attempt to bring the best of both platforms to a family-friendly app for creating and sharing. Controlled by the parent, each family member can try their hand at 120 creative “challenges”, from designing an apartment to taking shadow photos – with the results shared among the group in a social-style feed. There’s also a collection of YouTube videos handpicked by developer Duck Duck Moose for their educational value, and potential to spark real-world creation and play.Safari Tales.Safari Tales(£2.99)iOS / AndroidSome parents have learned to distrust mobile games featuring cute baby animals over the past few years, thanks to titles using those characters as bait for in-app purchases – for examplevirtual currency to heal them when sick. Safari Tales is one of the good guys though: not only is it paid for entirely upfront, but it has clear educational goals – “literacy skills through creative play” as its developer puts it. That means children exploring the African savannah playing mini-games and using a “word wheel” to ask questions about what they see, practising their sentence construction. Their adventures are also turned into digital storybooks to share with you, encouraging more reading.DragonBox Algebra 5+.DragonBox Algebra 5+(£3.99)iOS / AndroidLinear equations still make my head hurt, 25 years on from studying them at school, so an app designed to “secretly” teach kids algebra is probably on my level, let alone my children’s. DragonBox Algebra 5+ (there’s also a 12+ version for older children) is one of the more polished maths apps, though, with 200 number-puzzles spread across 10 chapters, with a game structure making it entertaining rather than dry. It’s fun to use together, but easy enough to grasp that children can work through at their own pace too.Cursive Writing Wizard.Photograph: PRCursive Writing Wizard(£3.99)iOS / AndroidA handwriting app isn’t intended to replace the important physical pencil-practice that children need when learning to write. But it can be a very good complement to it, reinforcing what they’re learning about letter shapes and joined-up writing. This app has been around for a while, but it’s still one of the most accessible examples. It’s also very customisable: you can enter your own word lists for your children to trace the letters of, whether it’s their own name, pets or words that have a particular meaning for your family. Plus you can see stats on how children use the app, and even watch their tracing replayed.Teach Your Monster to Read.Photograph: PRTeach Your Monster to Read: First Steps(£3.99)iOSOne important point: “monster” here doesn’t refer to your child, but rather to the virtual monster they’re teaching to read within this app. The theory being that one of the best ways to learn something is to feel like you’re teaching someone else. The focus here is on the early-reading phonics that children learn in school, practising skills like blending letter sounds together. It’s a good introduction to the Teach Your Monster to Read website, which has been available for longer.That’s my selection, but what apps do your children love that you’d recommend to other parents? The comments section is open for your thoughts.
Apple sold 3.6m Watches in the second quarter of this year, but compared to the 40m sales estimates, does that make the company’s first smartwatch a flop?The Apple Watch has both excited some and disappointed others. Before it was even launched, financial analysts predicted that Watches would sell in their droves, hitting 40m on customer wrists by the end of the first year.Those estimates, based on the performance of Apple’s iPhone and its 47.5m sales in a single quarter, were 80 times larger than any other smartwatch had sold in a year.Device analysts such as CCS Insight’s Ben Wooddescribed the notion of Apple Watch being a flopas “absolute nonsense” and said it would easily be the “most successful smartwatch ever”.Earlysmartwatch pioneer Pebble, which recently launched its newTimeandTime Steel, only sold 1m watches in three years, and Google’sAndroid Wearwatches, which are produced by a variety of manufacturers, only sold 800,000 before the end of last year.Even Samsung, which is Apple’s number one rival in the smartphone space, only soldsmartwatchesin their hundreds of thousands.Predictions of 40m appear to be way off to the tune of at least 20m, maybe more, if thelatest numbers from analyst firm IDCare accurate.Six times greaterThe latest update to IDC’s worldwide quarterly wearable device tracker puts Apple ahead of the pack with 3.6m Watches sold in the second quarter of this year. The next biggest smartwatch vendor was Samsung, with 600,000 of its Gear smartwatches sold, which makes Apple’s sales six times greater than its closest rival.In terms of all wearable technology, not just smartwatches but including fitness trackers primarily classified as “basic wearables” by IDC, Apple’s 3.6m Watch sales put it only 0.8m shy of the market leader Fitbit, which sold 4.4m devices in Q2.Fitbit commands 24.3% of the wearable market, leaving Apple with 19.9%, “China’s Apple” Xiaomi with 17.1% and 3.1m sales ofits Mi Band fitness tracker, Garmin with 3.9% and 700,000 sales, and Samsung in fifth place with 3.3% according to IDC’s numbers.‘Two of every three smart wearables were Apple Watches’Jitesh Ubrani, senior analyst for IDC, said: “About two of every three smart wearables shipped this quarter was an Apple Watch. Although Fitbit outshipped Apple, it’s worth noting that Fitbit only sells basic wearables – a category that is expected to lose share over the next few years, leaving Apple poised to become the next market leader for all wearables.”Apple’s entry into the wearables space might seem like doom and gloom for other players, including Samsung, given it has already secured 20% of the market, but that need not be the case. Apple brings attention to the market – and with attention comes awareness of competitors and a potential expansion of a segment, something smartwatches needed if they ever hoped to be more than a geek niche product.Ramon Llamas from IDC’s wearables team explained: “Its participation benefits multiple players and platforms within the wearables ecosystem, and ultimately drives total volumes higher.”The device analysts are clearly satisfied that the Apple Watch is anything other than a flop, even if the financial analysts and Wall Street look down on not-quite-iPhone sales numbers.Apple’s success in the smartwatch space will be measured in how many people buy the second and third generation devices over the next few years, after the novelty has warn off and the early adopters have already bought their devices. Only then will Apple Watch’s impact outside the tech-geek niche be clear.•What Apple needs to get right with its new iPhone 6S and 6S Plus
Six teenagers have been released on bail on suspicion of using hacking group Lizard Squad’s cyberattack tool to target websites and services.The six suspects are accused of launching cyber attacks at a national newspaper, a school, gaming companies and a number of online retailersThe teenagers, males aged between 15 and 18, were held by UK police during an operation targeting alleged users ofLizard Stresser, a tool that bombards websites and services with bogus traffic, in what’s calleda denial of service (ddos) attack, stopping real visitors from reaching the site.Ddos attacks have been used to cause both financial and reputational damage to businesses and services from Sony to government websites. The attacks can last from hours to days, and typically use computers or internet routers infected with viruses to make innocent users unwitting parties to the attack.The Lizard Stresser tool was used effectively by Lizard Squadduring cyber attacks onMicrosoft’s Xbox Live and Sony’s PlayStation Network online gaming services in December last year.The Lizard Stresser tool is seen as a “ddos for hire” facility, for which hackers can pay and aim it at targets of their choosing. The National Crime Agency (NCA) said the six people arrested are suspected of maliciously using Lizard Stresser, paying for it using Bitcoin in an attempt to remain anonymous.None of the six males arrested are accused of being members of Lizard Squad.Operation ‘Vivarium’Tony Adams, senior operations manager at the NCA’s national cybercrime unit, said: “By paying a comparatively small fee, tools like Lizard Stresser can cripple businesses financially and deprive people of access to important information and public services.”The arrests were made as part of an operation codenamed Vivarium, coordinated by the NCA and involving officers from several police forces.Those arrested this week were: an 18-year-old from Huddersfield; an 18-year-old from Manchester; a 16-year-old from Northampton; and a 15-year-old from Stockport. Two other suspects, both 17, were arrested earlier this year, one from Cardiff and another from Northolt, north-west London.All six have been bailed, while a further two 18-year-olds – one from Manchester and one from Milton Keynes – were interviewed under caution.As part of the same operation officers are visiting around 50 addresses linked to individuals who are registered on the Lizard Stresser website, to warn them that DDoS attacks are illegal, can cause financial damage and lead to “severe restrictions on their freedom”.Adams added: “One of our key priorities is to engage with those on the fringes of cyber criminality, to help them understand the consequences of cyber crime and how they can channel their abilities into productive and lucrative legitimate careers.”A member of Lizard Squad was arrested in Twickenham in December for their involvement in cyber attacks, while a further member was arrested in May for pranking armed police. However, the hacking group’s tool remains available, despite its site being hacked revealing customers’ details.•What will happen to the Lizard Squad hackers?
Apple is expected to launch a pair of new iPhones atits 9 September eventin San Francisco, and along with it a renewed push for its Siri and HomeKit features.But if Apple intends its devices to become the central hubs of people’s connected homes, or even just to persuade customers to upgrade, what does the company need to get right with its iPhone 6s and 6s Plus?Apple’s iPhone update cycle traditionally rotates in a “tick-tock” alternating pattern. One year, the major upgrade will be a refresh of the hardware design, and the next, the emphasis will be on improving the insides and adding new services.The iPhone 5, released in 2012, represented the “tick” with its larger 4in screen, new body design and upgraded camera. In 2013, iPhone 5s was the “tock” with its Touch ID fingerprint-sensor and faster processor.Last year brought another tick with the 4.7-inch iPhone 6 and 5.5-inch iPhone 6 Plus, which means we can expect the 9 September announcement to introduce “tock” versions of those devices, with specification and feature improvements.A faster iPhone will always find plenty of buyers, particularly among people who, due to their mobile contract, last upgraded two years ago, and are locked in to Apple’s ecosystem.But to address the“floating voter” of smartphones– the 20% of the smartphone-buying population that actually switches between platforms – Apple needs to get a few things right.BatteriesThe biggest pain point for almost every iPhone user is battery life. Apple chose to shrink its devices in thickness and weight, which left less space for a larger battery.The number of people I see every day searching for a Lightning cable to charge their dying phone, which they had on charge overnight, speaks volumes both to the number of iPhones out there and the daily fight for power.Solid two-day battery life is possible. Sony has proved that a high-performance, slim phone with a 1080p screen similar to that fitted to the iPhone 6 Pluscan last two days. Apple should be able to do it too.CamerasApple has always touted the iPhone’s camera as the best in the business, going as far as to launching a marketing campaign simply displaying photos taken by iPhones.But competitors have arguably bettered it and not just by increasing the number of megapixels. Apple’s next camera should include improved autofocus, optical image stabilisation within the iPhone 6S, not just the larger Plus, and a better selfie camera.Users seem to love taking selfies. Many of Apple’s competitors have responded with better front-facing cameras, with improved low-light performance and wider angle lenses. Apple’s FaceTime camera could do with an upgrade.SiriApple’s Siri is one of the most personable voice assistants – users can talk to it and have a conversation with it – but beyond simple things such as setting timers and alarms, Siri often falls flat.Siri is likely to take a central role in Apple’s efforts to conquer the home with its HomeKit automation system. But to do that, Apple has to convince users to talk more to Siri, to make accessing features and systems through voice more of the normal than the exception.The situation is likely better outside of Britain, where talking out loud to an inanimate object makes us feel terribly awkward, but it’s a barrier which Apple must try to break.New Force Touch display?Analysts and rumour mongers have speculated that Apple will bring its pressure-sensitive screen technology from the Apple Watch and its MacBook touchpads to the iPhone.Force Touch, as it is known on the Apple Watch, can detect a more forceful touch gesture and is used as a right click-like analogue. If brought to the iPhone, Apple needs to learn from its smartwatch and make it much more obvious when a heavier touch gesture can bear fruit.Too often on the Apple Watch it’s unclear when to Force Touch and when not to, leading to never ending trial and error and frustration.Convincing users to upgrade from two or three-year-old iPhones to the latest model is not going to be a challenge for Apple, but to justify its high price and premium status, the next generation iPhone must at least bring some real-world benefits over last year’s larger screens.•Apple Watch is king of smartwatch sales according to latest numbers•Apple admits fault causes ‘blurry’ photos on some iPhone 6 Plus•Hey, Siri! Meet the real people behind Apple’s voice-activated assistant
Instagram built its community of300 million usersaround a simple rule: every photo or video that they shared using its app would be square. Now the Facebook subsidiary is ditching that policy.The app’s latest update introduces portrait and landscape options for both photos and videos, in a move that may be aimed at encouraging more brands to run video advertisements on Instagram.The company is positioning the change as more about its users, unsurprisingly. “Square format has been and always will be part of who we are. That said, the visual story you’re trying to tell should always come first,” explained itsblog post announcing the news.“It turns out that nearly one in five photos or videos people post aren’t in the square format, and we know that it hasn’t been easy to share this type of content on Instagram: friends get cut out of group shots, the subject of your video feels cramped and you can’t capture the Golden Gate Bridge from end to end.”The company added that it was “especially excited about what this update means for video on Instagram, which in widescreen can be more cinematic than ever”. Not to mention less of a pain for advertisers to reformat ads originally shot for television.Instagram added the ability to upload 15-second videos to its appin June 2013, with many brands having since used the feature from their official accounts. The first video advertisementsappeared in October 2014.Related:Instagram, an artist and the $100,000 selfies – appropriation in the digital ageSquare photos (and later videos) have been one of the defining features of Instagram since the app first launched in 2010, and together with the company’s familiar app-store icon provided a link back to older instant-print cameras made by companies including Polaroid and Kodak.AVanity Fair profile of Instagram CEO Kevin Systromin 2013 traced the decision back to his student days on a photography course:“At Stanford, Systrom opted to go abroad to Florence, Italy, for the winter term of his junior year, where he focused on photography. A teacher there persuaded him to switch from his Nikon to a plastic Holga that took square photos, a choice that would be echoed later at Instagram. Florence also marked Systrom’s introduction to using chemicals in the developing process, such as selenium toning, which can give photos a distinct purple hue.”ABusiness Insider interview in 2012, as Facebook bought his startup for $1bn, saw Systrom describing the discussions that led to the square format on Instagram:“We realised that if we were going to do photos, that we’d have to be different and stand out. Square photos displayed really well in a feed format and frankly we just liked the aspect ratio better. It wasn’t much more complex than that.”Instagram and other photography apps using the square format influenced the software of the devices they were installed on. Apple, for example, added a square shooting mode to the iOS camera app in 2013, as part of its iOS 7 update.
It’s Friday!
As the fictional Sean Parker might put it: ‘A million people logging in to Facebook on a single day isn’t cool. You know what’s cool? A billion people’.The non-fictional Mark Zuckerberg has announced a new milestone for the social network: one billion daily users.“For the first time ever, one billion people used Facebook in a single day. On Monday, 1 in 7 people on Earth used Facebook to connect with their friends and family,”wrote Zuckerberg in a post on his personal profile.“When we talk about our financials, we use average numbers, but this is different. This was the first time we reached this milestone, and it’s just the beginning of connecting the whole world.”The news is no great surprise: Facebook has been growing steadily, and in the second quarter of 2015 itaveraged 968 million daily active users, and 1.49 billion monthly active users.Based on its figure of 844 million daily active mobile users during that period, Facebook may well reach the total of 1bn people logging in from smartphones and tablets in a single day in the not-too distant future too.“A more open and connected world is a better world. It brings stronger relationships with those you love, a stronger economy with more opportunities, and a stronger society that reflects all of our values,” wrote Zuckerberg.Related:Do Netflix, Spotify and Facebook know me as well as they think?The milestone came shortly after Facebook revealed its latest product,Facebook M,a virtual assistant within its Messenger application that blends artificial intelligence technology with human “trainers” to complete tasks for users.The social network is alsotesting a Twitter-like breaking news app, and competing with YouTube by launching a way for video creators to make money from advertising around their clips.On the latter front, Facebook has also justannounced new toolsto tackle “freebooting” - people ripping videos from YouTube anduploading them to Facebook without the permission of their original creators.Facebook has alsounveiled its first solar-powered drone, while Zuckerberg and his wife Priscilla Chan recentlyannounced that they are expecting a baby girl.
Vine has already been alaunchpad to stardom for musicians like Shawn Mendes, whose six-second loops on Twitter’s video-sharing app propelled him to a major record deal, chart-topping sales and a tour with Taylor Swift.Where Mendes and fellow Viners Jack &amp; Jack and Us the Duo have blazed a trail, other musicians are following. Now Vine is making music even more of a priority with new features within its app.They include a new “Featured Tracks” section with samples of popular songs for people to use as the soundtracks for their videos, and a feature called “Snap to Beat” which will trim their clips to ensure the music loops seamlessly.“To date, our creation tools have focused on the visual components of your Vines. By focusing on how your Vines sound, you can make better Vines, and share new music for the world to uncover,” explained Vine in a blog post.For now, the new creation tools will only be available in Vine’s iPhone app. Another new feature – the ability to tap on a music-note icon to identify the song playing in a clip being watched – will be available on iPhone and Android.Vine’s editorial team will choose which songs to add to the Featured Tracks section, with the company licensing the tracks from music labels and publishers.Related:Shawn Mendes: is the Vine sensation the next Justin Bieber?Vine also hopes that artists and labels will see the new features as valuable for promotional purposes, including the ability to add a link to their Vine clips directing viewers to download stores, streaming services or other sites of their choice.The number of people watching Vine videos – in the app, on Twitter and online – has doubled in the last year from 100 million in August 2014 to 200 million now.The new features are not a complete surprise. Earlier in August, Twitter’s UK director,Bruce Daisley, posted a clip titled “Test”that featured music looping independently of the video cuts, sparking reports that Vine was planning a soundtracks feature.
Google has described the European commission’s antitrust case against its search engine business as “wrong as a matter of fact, law and economics” in a lengthy counter submitted to the regulator.The commission’s competition policy chief,Margrethe Vestager, launched a full-scale legal attack on Googlein April, accusing the company of abusing its market dominance by systematically favouring its shopping price comparison service.The challenge is a defining case for Europe in testing its regulatory muscle against one of the giants of the digital age. Shopping is seen as the opening salvo, with the commission still examining other Google services such as travel price comparison and local directories, as well as complaints about the copying, or “scraping”, of rivals’ content and restrictions on advertisers. A separate investigation has been launched into Google’s Android software, which is the world’s dominant mobile phone operating system.Google’s response, which runs to more than 100 pages, is confidential. But the company’s general counselKent Walker outlined his defence in a blog postpublished on Thursday, saying that far from harming rival shopping price comparison services, the Google had increased traffic to their sites.“The universe of shopping services has seen an enormous increase in traffic from Google, diverse new players, new investments and expanding consumer choice,” Walker claimed. He said that over the last decade, the company had delivered 20bn free clicks to rival price comparison sites, with free traffic – as opposed to traffic acquired by paying for adverts on Google – increasing by 227%.“Economic data spanning more than a decade, an array of documents, and statements from complainants all confirm that product search is robustly competitive,” said Walker. Google’s submission is understood to claim that in recent years several hundred new price comparison businesses have launched in a handful of larger European markets.Google shopping uses a box at the top of the page to show photos, prices and shipping costs for a product when users type in a name. So a search for “Nike Air Max” will return a box featuring five pairs of shoes with links to different retailers.UK price comparison site Foundem, a similar French service called Twengaand the US consumer reviews site Yelp are understood to be among the complainants which the commission has used to build its case.Its formal statement of objections, sent to Google on 15 April, is confidential.Google claims the commission has defined its competitors too narrowly, and says Google shopping should be seen as operating in a field that includes big retailers like Amazon and marketplaces like eBay, where shoppers frequently go to compare prices. Far from being harmed by Google, these retail businesses are growing fast, the search company points out.“The ways people search for, compare, and buy products are rapidly evolving,” blogged Walker. “Users on desktop and mobile devices often want to go straight to trusted merchants who have established an online presence.”He also rejected the commission’s proposed remedy. Vestager wants Google to use the advertising box at the top of its results page to show products sourced and ranked by other price comparison services, not just Google shopping.The company argues that implementing this would be technically difficult, produce poor quality search results, and that the solution is not legally justified.An opinion commissioned by Google from the Danish judge Bo Vesterdorf, a former president of the European court of first instance, claims such an obligation could only be legally justified where a company has a duty to supply its own rivals. This kind of duty tends to apply to utilities, providing essential services such as gas or electricity.Google will now wait for the commission’s response. If its defence is unsuccessful, it could in theory be fined up to 10% of the previous year’s turnover. Google revenues were $66bn (£43bn) in 2014.
The brief for Huawei’s Honor 7 is straightforward: make a solid smartphone that don’t break the bank.It doesn’t pretend to be a “flagship killer”, and isn’t, but in a market that is full of good offerings for under £250, including the newOnePlus 2andthird-generation Moto G, can the, arguably, fastest fingerprint scanner in the business make it stand out?Simple, understated designA very fast and effective fingerprint sensor is positioned under the camera on the back, right in line with where your index finger sits.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Honor 7 has a simple, relatively attractive design. The body is metal, although it has a coating on it that gives it a premium plastic-like feel. The front is all glass with a selfie cam and front-facing flash. The rear has a camera that sticks out and a fingerprint scanner below – it’s all quite understated.Build quality is just above average: the body flexes when twisted and the plastic top and bottom corners feel like they will be marked quite easily if dropped.The 5.2in full HD screen looks remarkably crisp and good, but side-by-side with the quad HD screens with higher pixel densities such as the 5.1in screen of the Galaxy S6 it is noticeably less dense.The Honor 7 compares favourably to theOnePlus 2, which has a similar 1080p screen.At 8.5mm the phone is relatively thin and light for the mid-range price. Compared to the OnePlus 2 for instance, it is 1.35mm thinner and 18g lighter.Beyond the standard power and volume buttons, the Honor 7 also has an extra customisable button. A short press, long press and double press can all be tied to custom actions such as launching the camera or used to launch an app such as Twitter or Facebook. It works well, but gets pressed quite a lot by accident as it is opposite the power and volume buttons.SpecificationsScreen:5.2in full HD LCD (424ppi)Processor:Octa-core Huawei Kirin 935RAM:3GB of RAMStorage:16GB + microSD cardOperating system:Android 5.0 “Lollipop” with Emotion UICamera:20MP rear camera, 8MP front-facing cameraConnectivity:Dual-sim, LTE, Wi-Fi, NFC, Bluetooth 4.1 and GPSDimensions:143.2 x 71.9 x 8.5mmWeight:157gHome-grown hardwareThe Honor 7 isn’t the fastest smartphone on the block, but its own-brand processor is capable of performing most tasks without issue.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Honor 7 contains Huawei’s Kirin 935 octa-core processor. Perfomance is solid, if not astounding, only stuttering slightly with some graphically rich gaming, while 3GB of RAM is plenty for multitasking according to the built-in RAM monitor.The phone handled everything I threw at it without issue, and didn’t suffer from any heat issues, unlike Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 810.The battery lasted around one day on the phone’s “Smart” power profile, which claims to best balance performance with battery life, returning to the charger at night with 20% battery left. That was with hundreds of push notifications, email, Twitter, Facebook, music streaming and an hour of browsing.It’s worth noting that the screen’s 50% brightness was far too dim to see anything, and the automatic brightness setting often made the screen quite bright, which will eat into the battery life.Emotion UI not up to scratchHuaweiPhotograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Honor 7 runs Huawei’s modified version of Android 5.0 called “Emotion UI”. It is the same version as running on theHuawei P8and has the same benefits and pitfalls.Briefly, there is no app drawer making it like an iPhone with every app on the home screen; the notification tray looks and behaves differently with some apps spitting out multiple notifications; most app icons have a coloured background, which looks a mess, and other apps have custom icons, which look a bit warped, such as Instagram.The standard Android Lollipop experience is much more attractive and slick.For more details about Emotion UI please see thesoftware section of the Huawei P8 review.CameraThe camera app is similar to the iPhone’s camera application in look and feel.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Honor 7 comes with a 20-megapixel camera on the back and an 8-megapixel fixed-focus selfie cam which, unusually, has its own flash placed on the other side of the handset’s ear speaker.Images from the rear camera are rich in detail and relatively accurate in colour. The f/2.4 lens isn’t quite up to par with the best in the industry, from LG and Samsung with their 1.9 and 2.0 lenses, which means a shallow depth of field and pleasingbokeh effectis difficult to obtain.Overall, it’s a decent camera with good low-light performance, on par with the likes of theOnePlus 2.The front-facing camera can take good images but lacks range and, being fixed focus, is a curious choice for an 8-megapixel camera. It means that everything ends up in focus – or, if you get too close, nothing is in focus. The LED flash is also not very bright.The camera app is very iPhone-like. A simple photo selector on the left, with options to enable HDR and a load of other features buried behind a menu. It can sometimes be a bit sluggish to take photos. The camera’s beauty modes can also produce some scary pale, bug-eyed photos.Lightning fast fingerprint scannerThe fingerprint on the back lines up with an index finger when holding it facing the screen, but can also be used to silence alarms or other functions from the rear.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianArguably the best fingerprint scanner on the market, and the best thing about the Honor 7, the sensor just below the camera on the back is so quick and accurate you think it’s broken.It’s easy to hit with your index finger and unlocks the phone in under 0.5 seconds. A simple tap is enough – no long pressing and hoping. It’s even faster and more accurate than Apple’s much vaunted Touch ID on the iPhone.Unfortunately, like theOnePlus 2, the Honor 7’s fingerprint sensor can’t be used in third-party apps such as Evernote or LastPass. Android 6 Marshmallow will introduce native fingerprint support into Android and hopefully expand support for the Honor 7 and other smartphones’ fingerprint sensors, beyond Samsung’s.PriceThe Honor 7 will be available via Huawei’s online store for £250, which makes it £10 more expensive than the16GB OnePlus 2. For comparison a32GB Samsung Galaxy S6costs £415 and an LG G4 costs £340.Huawei’s P8 costs £360.The Honor 7 is relatively manageable for a smartphone with a 5.2in screen.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianVerdictThe Honor 7 is a solid mid-range smartphone with some great features. The fingerprint sensor is the fastest in the business – all fingerprint sensors should be that easy and quick to use.The camera is solid, it has dual-sim or microSD card support, and the extra customisable button is a nice touch.Its biggest problem is its software. Emotion UI is just not as attractive, user friendly or well designed as the standard Android 5 Lollipop experience.Overall, the Honor 7 is good value from a more mainstream Chinese smartphone brand, that you actually buy from a store, but may not be enough to justify spending £100 more than a solid budget offering.Pros:fantastic fingerprint scanner, solid camera, decent screen, microSD card slot, quick charge, decent performance, no thermal issuesCons:no wireless charging, Emotion UI isn’t good, selfie cam is fixed focus, build quality isn’t as good as some rivals, second sim only 2GOther reviews•OnePlus 2 review: a real ‘flagship killer’?•Samsung Galaxy S6 review: the iPhone killer•LG G4 review: one of the best phablets available, boasting an impressive camera•Google Nexus 6 review: big is beautiful, but not manageable•Sony Xperia Z3 review: great battery life and quality camera•Apple iPhone 6 review: thinner, faster and slightly cheaper
The British songwriters’ performing rights organisation PRS for Music is suing SoundCloud.It is taking legal action against the streaming service for not paying songwriters royalties when their music is used on the site.In an email to PRS members, obtained by the Guardian, Karen Buse, executive director for membership and international, explained: “After careful consideration, and following five years of unsuccessful negotiations, we now find ourselves in a situation where we have no alternative but to commence legal proceedings against the online music service SoundCloud.”The move comes after a tumultuous year for the streaming service, which launched in 2008 and now has more than 175m users per month. SoundCloud operated without music licences until last year, when it indicated that it intends to launch a subscription service. Since then, the Warner Music Group and independent labels represented by Merlin agreed tolicence the service in the US.There are rumours that a licensing agreement with Universal Music is expected imminently, but Sony Music recentlypulled all of its musicfrom SoundCloud after negotiations stalled.Record label licences, however, only cover the recordings, not the compositions or songs. Though the US National Music Publishers Association (NMPA) has licensed SoundCloud, so far the streaming service has no licences in place with any performing rights organisation. According to the email, Soundcloud denies that it even needs a licensing deal with PRS for streams within the UK and Europe.Buse: “We have asked SoundCloud numerous times to recognise their responsibilities to take a licence to stop the infringement of our members’ copyrights but so far our requests have not been met. Therefore we now have no choice but to pursue the issue through the courts.”SoundCloud’s lack of proper licensing has been a subject of criticism within the music industry for years. Last year, in an interview with the Musicians Union member magazine, the head of digital for the independent Beggars Group labels, Simon Wheeler, said: “We’ve talked to SoundCloud ever since it started, in its incredibly early days – 2008 was when I first spoke with Alex [Ljung, the co-founder]. We thought the technology was great, the idea was great, and the platform was great – but we absolutely disagreed with their approach to rights and licensing. So therefore, as a company policy we chose not to use them.”Beggars Group labels include XL Recordings, whose artist roster includes Adele and Damon Albarn. “We’re thinking ‘do we want to enable a platform to have a free ride on our rights’,” Wheeler explained at the time. “And, actually, we’re delivering the publishing rights – not just the rights that we control. We’re thinking: what’s going to happen down the line? Do we want to make this into the new MTV, YouTube whatever the phrase is of this time?”Beggars Group, represented by Merlin, appears to have finallycome to an agreement on licensing, earlier this summer.However, PRS’s latest legal action shows SoundCloud has yet to agree to a licence to pay songwriters.“If the streaming market is to reach its true potential and offer a fair return for our members, organisations such as SoundCloud must pay for their use of our members’ music,” said Buse. “We believe that all digital services should obtain a licence which grants them permission to use our members’ music and repertoire, in this case the works of songwriters, publishers and composers.”A SoundCloud spokesperson responded to the Guardian: “It is regrettable that PRS appears to be following this course of action in the midst of an active commercial negotiation with SoundCloud. We believe this approach does not serve the best interests of any of the parties involved, in particular the members of the PRS, many of whom are active users of our platform and who rely on it to share their work and communicate with their fanbase.”“SoundCloud is a platform by creators, for creators. No one in the world is doing more to enable creators to build and connect with their audience while protecting the rights of creators, including PRS members. We are working hard to create a platform where all creators can be paid for their work, and already have deals in place with thousands of copyright owners, including record labels, publishers and independent artists.”It’s still unclear if the legal action will result in SoundCloud removing all tracks written by PRS members from the service.•British songwriters body BASCA takes aim at Google and SoundCloud•The real peril in Rolling Stone’s greatest songwriters wasn’t the lack of diversity – it was the corporate sponsorship
Angry Birds makerRovio’s decision to lay off 38% of its staffis the latest reminder that the mobile games industry can be a brutally unforgiving industry, even if the£865m spent by players on Candy Crush Saga in 2014shows that the rewards for success can be huge.Now new research from mobile analytics firm App Annie has shed more light on the path to success for successful mobile games, including the claim that while their downloads tend to peak soon after launch, their revenues peak much later.The company analysed nearly 20,000 mobile games on Apple’s iOS App Store and Android’s Google Play store, tracking their downloads and revenues over the five years to June 2015.Its report claims that around 30-35% of those games reached more than 1m downloads, while 15% ofthosereached 10m downloads. Meanwhile, 10-15% of the games generated more than $1m of revenues, while 20% ofthosewent on to gross $10m.Those calculations should not be applied to the wider app stores: App Annie chose its sample from “top-performing apps”, so its findings do not prove that 2% of all iOS and Android games make more than $10m.The research does provide more information on how those successful games build their businesses, though. Of the iOS games that reached 1m downloads, 33% did so in their first month, with a median time of 98 days to reach that milestone.It took longer to reach $1m in revenues: a median of 156 days for the iOS games. On Google Play, the median time to reach 1m downloads was 69 days, while for $1m of revenues it was 159 days.“It appears that successful iOS games peaked early by downloads but grew daily revenue over time as accumulated downloads contributed to the size of a game’s active user base,” claims App Annie. “Since 2012, the pattern was largely similar on Google Play.”Related:Hearthstone: how a game developer turned 30m people into card geeksThe report also identified the huge lifespan of some of the most lucrative mobile games. Japanese game Puzzle &amp; Dragons, for example, spent more than 1,200 days as one of the five top-grossing iOS games worldwide, and more than 1,000 days in a similar position on Google Play.“In comparison, blockbuster movies like Titanic and Avatar remained Top 5 grossing movies for &lt;150 days and &lt;100 days, respectively,” claims the report.While comparisons between apps and movie takings seem to be all the rage in 2015, they are often a case of apples and oranges. While films are finished products designed to make money from several stages of formats and release windows – cinema, DVD, video-on-demand and so on – successful mobile games are designed to be played every day, with new features and content added regularly.The English-language version of Puzzle &amp; Dragons, for example, has been updated 30 times since its release in November 2012.
The murder of aTV reporter and her cameramanlive on television was shocking. What made it all the more real for many was being forced to unwittingly witness the murder through videos made by the killer posted to Twitter and Facebook, which automatically played within their social media feeds.While the shooting wascaught live on television, the gunman Vester Flanagan, also captured first-hand video of the shooting.He then posted that video to his social media accounts. Both Twitter and Facebook automatically play videos when they appear in users’ feeds, which meant that anyone who followed Flanagan was subjected to the video next time they viewed their feed.Despite Twitter and Facebook’s best efforts, both whom removed Flanagan’s profile – Twitter within eight minutes of the video being posted – the situation was made worse because multiple users and news organisations reposted those videos and clips from the TV broadcast on their social media accounts.The reposted videos then found their way into more user feeds, automatically playing and forcing more and more users into becoming unwitting witnesses to the shooting.Outraged users took to Twitter to express their dismay and warn others.Twitter and Facebook autoplay videos made me witness the murder of someone from multiple angles today. Good job technology&mdash; Tom Warren (@tomwarren)August 26, 2015Thanks to the fuckin autoplay option, I&#39;ve just seen the horrifying video that the shooter recorded himself. I feel sick. Do not watch!!!&mdash; Barzin Keywan (@BarzinKeywan)August 26, 2015It appears the suspect in the#WBDJ7shooting is tweeting videos he filmed himself. I’m shaking.&mdash; Alastair Roliday (@ajreid)August 26, 2015Auto play on social media is an issue. It happened with James Foley. Happened with others. It happened again today.&mdash; Ross Maghielse (@Maghielse)August 26, 2015Ultimately Flanagan is to blame for the video, autoplaying or not. Some users on Twitter have also questioned why users and news organisations have reposted the video labeling it as irresponsible and click-baiting.Classy act coming out from all the news outlets now posting the video of their murder on Twitter, where it autoplays.&mdash; Matt &#39;TK&#39; Taylor (@MattieTK)August 26, 2015Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and many other social media services and sites have set videos within people’s feeds to automatically play by default. The autoplay feature, intended to make inoffensive content more engaging, is now forcing people to watch videos that they do not want to and would not watch given the choice.Analysts have suggested that the reason why autoplay on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter exists is to aid advertising. An automatically-playing video or gif is the most eye-catching piece of content in a standard Twitter or Facebook feed. It rolls through, it moves and attracts a user’s gaze, even if only for a moment.For an advert, that is its primary purpose: to attract eyeballs to whatever it is trying to sell. Twitter, Facebook and many others all rely on adverts to fund their free services. The better the advert attracts views, the more advertisers will pay – and the more money the social media services make.But autoplay videos, even when showing content that isn’t offensive, consume user’s mobile data, can slow down their smartphones and consume battery life unnecessarily – the biggest pain point of the modern smartphone user.Now users are calling for autoplay to be made an opt-in, not an opt-out feature that forces users to search through settings screens. Users argue that the downsides of having autoplay active by default are just too big to justify having it automatically turned on for all users.Turn off autoplayIn the meantime, users can turn off autoplay in the settings of the Facebook, Twitter or Instagram app on their smartphones or on the web in their browsers.How to disable autoplay on Twitter for iPhone. Other apps and platforms, including Android, are very similar.•Facebook video app ads will now auto-play on mobile•Virginia TV shooting: what we know so far
In-app purchases may have become the dominant way for developers to make money from charging for their apps, but Amazon’s new app takes a sledgehammer to the model.Well, in a sense.Amazon Undergroundis an app for Android smartphones that offers a catalogue of apps and games with their in-app purchases all reduced to zero. Users can still “buy” virtual currency and items, but Amazon will pay for them – touting an “actually free” slogan.“We’ve made this possible by working out a new business model with app and game developers: we’re paying them a certain amount on a per-minute played basis in exchange for them waiving their normal in-app fees,”explained the companyin a letter to customers, introducing Underground.Indeveloper documentation for the new app, Amazon said that developers will be paid $0.002 per minute of usage – a figure that translates to £0.0013 in the UK and €0.0018 in Germany and France.The company has published a“revenue forecasting calculator”for developers to work out how much their existing Android app might make under the system, based on how much it was used and how much it earned in the past month.Among the games offered within the app are Fruit Ninja, Star Wars Rebels: Recon Missions, Angry Birds Slingshot Stella, Jetpack Joyride and Goat Simulator, while the apps include OfficeSuite Professional 8.Users will have to download the app directly from Amazon, as the rules of Android’s official Google Play store prohibit alternative app stores from being distributed within it.Related:Trouble at the mill threatens Jeff Bezos and Amazon's reputationAmazon has clearly been thinking about potential loopholes in its new system. For example, it has told developers that “anti-virus or clock apps that run continuously in the background” will not be suitable for the initiative, and neither will “apps that support passive streaming content” like music or video.The company also says that it will show advertising when apps first launch, and sometimes when they are launched or resumed by a user.Amazon Underground may be limited to four countries for now, but it is a significant tilt at freemium, which has become the dominant way for developers to make money from charging for their apps.Analytics firm App Annie estimates that95% of spending on iOS apps within Apple’s App Store in 2014 was in-app purchases– suggesting that $9.5bn of the$10bn paid out to developers by Apple that yearcame from IAPs.The difficulty of installing apps on iOS devices from outside the App Store – where Amazon Underground will also be barred – means the new app is almost certain never to launch for Apple’s devices.
The theory behind colouring books for adults is that they relieve the stress and anger of our daily lives, even if their very existence makes some critics purple-faced with rage.These books are a bona fide publishing industry trend, though:boosting business for retailer WHSmithin the UK, fuellinga rise in non-fiction sales for US publishers, and helpingAmazon chill out some of its customers in south London.This being 2015, inevitably there are now apps for that. iOS appRecoloris the work of developer Sumoing, whose Repix, Relook and Camu photography apps have been downloaded more than 25m times.The Finnish company has created more than 200 illustrations for the app, with a simple set of colouring tools to change individual areas of each picture with a tap.This being 2015 (still) the app uses the freemium model that’s now dominant on the major app stores: it can be downloaded and used for free, but individual illustration packs – from animals, fishes and insects to isometric images and bejewelled skulls – can be bought using in-app purchases.Related:The best apps of 2014 for Android, iPhone and iPad“The fresh and harmonic color palettes are designed for stress relieving coloring,” suggests Recolor’s App Store listing, blissfully ignoring the fact that for grammatically-sensitive British users, the missing ‘u’ may well spark the kind of stress that the app is hoping to relieve.Recolor is not alone on the App Store: it will compete with other adult colouring apps includingColorfy,Flower Mandalasand1000 Dot-to-Dot, among others.What these apps miss is the physical element of colouring books: tapping a space to turn it green isn’t a match for the tactile relief of scribbling with a pencil. What’s more, these apps are on devices where emails, social networks, incoming calls and other digital sources of modern stress are only a couple of taps away.On the plus side, for less-coordinated colourists, Recolor makes it impossible for you to colour over the lines in a picture. Although that, too, arguably takes some of the fun out of the process.
Download the upgrade?Can I download the upgrade, store the files, and install it about a week later?ErnstYes, you can download it from theDownload Windows 10page. Microsoft provides amedia creation toolso that you can install the download on a blank USB memory stick or burn it to DVD. This means you can download the file on one PC to upgrade a different PC.Windows 10 is being continuously updated, so don’t download it a long time before you plan to use it: it will be out of date. You have until next July to install the free upgrade.Third-party upgraders?Is there any reason to let a Microsoft store install the Windows 10 update, as opposed to an independent PC/desktop specialist?LutherNot many of us have access to a Microsoft store, but in either case, ask your store – or your independent operator – to describe what they are going to do. This should include backing up your data and programs, and restoring/reinstalling anything that goes missing. (Obviously, you should have your data backed up already.) They should also guarantee that Windows 10 will be activated. You can check this by running the Settings app from the Start menu, going to Update &amp; security, and selecting Activation.Good installers will make sure your PC already has the latest Windows updates installed, and double-check that they can get all the right drivers. They may also uninstall any non-Microsoft anti-malware software that might cause problems with the upgrade.However, 75 million people have now upgraded, and most used the Windows Update service.It’s not hard.Where’s my product key?Where is the new product key when upgrading?AlanIt’s online. You can search your PC for a Windows 10 product key using autilitysuch as Belarc Adviser, Jellybean Keyfinder, or whatever. However, if you took the free upgrade via Windows Update, then your product key will probably be YTMG3-N6DKC-DKB77-7M9GH-8HVX7 for the Home version or VK7JG-NPHTM-C97JM-9MPGT-3V66T for Pro. There are a few other generic keys, but don’t bother trying to use them.You won’t have a unique key stored on your PC’s motherboard unless you upgraded from a retail version of Windows, or bought a digital version from the Windows Store.When Microsoft installs Windows 10, it creates a hash number based on your hardware and stores it against your Microsoft Account (MSA). Once you have done that, you can do a re-installation, and your PC will authenticate automatically. If you are asked for a product key, click “Skip” and it should authenticate itself, perhaps after a day or two, depending on the load on Microsoft’s servers.This is a different approach from Windows XP, Vista, 7 and 8 where a unique product key was printed on aCertificate of Authenticitystuck to the bottom of the PC. (Tip: take a photo of yours because the CoA can get worn and hard to read.)Note that you must upgrade (and get your hash key recorded) before attempting to do a clean installation from a DVD or USB stick.Of course, if you change parts of your PC then this will change the hash number. Microsoft ignores small changes – replacing a hard drive, video card or whatever. You’re only likely to have a problem if you upgrade the motherboard. If authentication fails, then traditionally you had to do a phone activation, which was rarely a problem. Now you can sign in with your MSA, type “supp” into Windows 10, run the Contact Support app, select Services &amp; apps and then Windows. Click “Setting up” to request an activation.Bear in mind that cheap pre-installed copies of Windows are tied to the device on which they are first installed, and the licence does not give you the right to move it to another PC. So, make your changes gradually. If you change all the parts at once, it will, in effect, be a new PC, even if it’s in the same case.If you want a copy of Windows that you can move between as many PCs as you like, then you can pay a bit more for the retail version, which also includes Microsoft support.Where’s my upgrade?I reserved my copy of Windows 10 a while ago. When I click on “Check your PC,” it says “Good to go”. So why isn’t it upgrading to Windows 10? Is there a way I can find out what the problem is?Jeanne MarieMicrosoft is doing a staged roll-out that is expected to take several months. I assume Microsoft started with the easiest machines, to debug the installation process, before tackling the ones it thinks might cause problems. Your PC may have fallen into that category, though there’s no way to tell.It seems that brand new Windows 8.1 machines go straight to the front of the queue. I just set up a new laptop and got an unrequested Windows 10 offer within seconds of signing on. It was fully installed about an hour later.You could, of course, jump the queue by downloading Windows 10 directly. But if my theory is correct – that Microsoft is starting with the “low hanging fruit” – it’s probably better to wait.Will my files survive?Will the files, movies and programs on the Windows 7 disk drive be deleted or lost during the update?HossamIf you do an “in place” upgrade via Windows Update, everything should stay safely in place, and any missing files should be stored on your hard drive in a folder called windows.old.However, it’s a fact of computer life that things sometimes go wrong, so you should have a backup or two. I like to take a compressed backup and then useFreeFileSyncto make a mirror image copy of all my files on an external hard drive, so I absolutely know they are there. You and you alone are responsible for preserving your own data.Can I downgrade?I have just upgraded from Windows 8.1 to Windows 10 on my PC, but want to go back to Windows 8.1 as I have some problems. Can I later – within a year – again install Windows 10 free of cost on the same PC?B. NielsenYes, you can upgrade and downgrade as often as you like. To downgrade, run the Settings app, go to Update &amp; security (as mentioned above), and click on Recovery. The middle option should be: “Go back to Windows 8.1”.Note that you only have 30 days to do this. The Windows 10 upgrade rolls up your previous operating system into a folder called “windows.old”, but will delete this to save space (12.5GB on my laptop). You can also, of course, make your own restoration media. SeeRecovery options in Windows 10.I’m not upgrading!How can I cancel my reservation?TerryMicrosoft’s instructions were not as precise as they might have been. Happily, the SuperSite for Windows has published a brief guide toSuccessfully Cancelling Your Windows 10 Upgrade Reservation. It has an illustration for every single step.* Ask Jack has had more than 650 questions about Windows 10, which is too many to answer personally. If yours isn’t answered here, seeMicrosoft Windows 10 free upgrade: five questions answered,Microsoft Windows 10 free upgrade: 10 more of your questions answered,Microsoft Windows 10 free upgrade: seven more questions answered, andMicrosoft Windows 10 free upgrade: the last roundup.Have you got a question? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
Facebook is launching a virtual assistant that combines artificial intelligence (AI) technology with a team of human helpers, to compete with services such as Apple’s Siri, Google Now and Microsoft’s Cortana.Facebook M will sit within the social network’s Facebook Messenger app, with people interacting with it using messages as if it were one of their friends.“M is a personal digital assistant inside of Messenger that completes tasks and finds information on your behalf. It’s powered by artificial intelligence that’s trained and supervised by people,” explained Facebook’s messaging boss David Marcus,in a post on the social network.“Unlike other AI-based services in the market, M can actually complete tasks on your behalf. It can purchase items, get gifts delivered to your loved ones, book restaurants, travel arrangements, appointments and way more.”Facebook M is currently in tests internally and with a few Facebook users, with no confirmed launch date to roll it out to the 700 million users of Messenger.Screenshots published by Marcus show sample queries including “Can you help me order flowers for my mom’s birthday?”; “Where’s the best place to go hiking in the Bay Area?”; and “Is there a dog-friendly beach nearby?”Example queries from Facebook M.Aninterview with Wiredprovided more details on how the service will work, including its human “trainers” who’ll tune M’s ability to respond to requests:“Facebook’s M trainers have customer service backgrounds. They make the trickier judgment calls, and perform other tasks that software can’t. If you ask M to plan a birthday dinner for your friend, the software might book the Uber and the restaurant, but a person might surprise your friend at the end of the night by sending over birthday cupcakes from her favorite bakery.”Facebook M is part of a bigger, ambitious strategy for Messenger to become more than just an app for chatting to friends.Related:Messaging apps' next threads: encryption, payments, media and adsIn March, Facebook added a feature to the appenabling people to send payments directly to their contacts, while also launching an initiative calledBusinesses on Messengerto encourage companies to route their customer support through the app.M is also part of Facebook’s wider exploration of AI technology. The companybought startup Wit.ai in Januaryfor its “incredible yet simple natural language processing API that has helped developers turn speech and text into actionable data” – features that arekey to Facebook M.Facebook also has a division calledFacebook AI Researchthat sets out the social network’s ambitions. “We’re committed to advancing the field of machine intelligence and developing technologies that give people better ways to communicate,” explains its homepage.“In the long term, we seek to understand intelligence and make intelligent machines. How will we accomplish all this? By building the best AI lab in the world.”
It’s Thursday. Still raining.
The Galaxy S6 Edge+ is Samsung’s latest phablet. It comes with the same curved screen edges that its little cousin, the S6 Edge, debuted as well as an eye-watering price tag.With the S6 Edge+ Samsung is really posing a simple question: is a 5.7in screen better than a 5.1in one? Almost everything else about the larger smartphone is the same as theS6 Edge, making the screen the big differentiator.Big phabletsThe glass curves around the side of the phone to the metal edge.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSamsung is far from new to big smartphones. It practically invented the phablet category with the first Note in 2011, and has released a series of supersized smartphones under that brand ever since. This year is no exception: theNote 5 launched alongside the S6 Edge+, but it isn’t coming to Europe immediately.Instead Samsung’s phablet of choice is just an enlarged version of itscurvy S6 Edge. And happily for Europeans, this is no bad thing.The screen is stunning. A 5.7in quad HD AMOLED that’s vibrant, bright and crisp. It is easily as good as the S6 Edge’s screen and one of the best available. Some will see its saturated colours as a bit garish but many will like how they’re noticeably more vibrant than the LCD displays as used in theOnePlus 2oriPhone 6 Plus.Despite having a big 5.7in screen (phablets generally start at 5.5in), the S6 Edge+ is one of the thinnest phablets available both in depth and width. Compared to thesmaller S6 Edgethe 5.7in device is 0.1mm thinner, 5.7mm wider, 12.3mm taller and 21g heavier. Compared to Samsung’s chief rival Apple and itsiPhone 6 Plus, which has a smaller 5.5in screen, the S6 Edge+ is somehow 3.7mm shorter, 0.2mm thinner and 19g lighter.The narrow width is aided by the curvature of the screen and makes handling it a lot easier. It’s surprising how much easier it is to wield compared to something like theNote 4,Nexus 6oriPhone 6 Plus.The aluminium edges and glass back are the same as thesmaller S6 Edge– they feel of premium quality and well-built, surpassing that ofthe Note 4for instance. The glass back will become scratched over time, like any glass-backed smartphone.The narrow width makes gripping the phone with one hand relatively easy for a phablet, but your palm will likely touch the side of the screen.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe metal band around the phone has hard lips which makes them easier to grip, but the large phone size and curved screen makes it difficult to hold without touching the screen with your palm.This isn’t an issue for the most part as Samsung’s software is good at preventing accidental activation. Only in a particularly intense game ofShooting Starsdid I notice my palm causing interference.The Galaxy S6 Edge+ is one of the most manageable phablets to date, but is still a big smartphone.SpecificationsScreen:5.7in quad HD AMOLED (518ppi)Processor:octa-core Samsung Exynos 7420RAM:4GB of RAMStorage:32/64GB; no SD cardOperating system:Android 5.1.1 “Lollipop” with TouchWizCamera:16MP rear camera with OIS, 5MP front-facing cameraConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi, NFC, wireless charging, Bluetooth 4.2 and GPSDimensions:154.4 x 75.8 x 6.9 mmWeight:153gSnappyThe camera lump, flash and heart rate sensor on the back.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe S6 Edge+ has the same insides as its smallerS6 Edge cousin: Samsung’s own octo-core Exynos 7420 processor, which performs very similarly. The S6 Edge+ is one of the fastest smartphones I have ever used.It has an extra gigabyte of memory with 4GB of RAM in total, which helps with multitasking.The phablet also has a larger battery, but very similar battery life toother versions of the S6, lasting about a day per charge. I consistently got home from work with 35% battery left. Both charging via cable and wirelessly is fast – a full charge via cable and a compatible charger such as the one in the box takes under 90 minutes.Some of the edge screen functionality, such as displaying a colour to indicate who is calling along the edge when the screen is face down is not compatible with wireless charging, as it only works through the back cover.TouchWizEdge apps are new for the Edge+, providing quick access to five apps from any screen.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe S6 Edge+ runs the same version of modified Android 5.1.1 Lollipop, called “TouchWiz”, asother S6 variants. It works well, although isn’t quite as slick as the standard Android experience.A variety of Facebook and Microsoft apps come pre-installed, but can be disabled. Most of Samsung’s apps, including S Voice, can also be disabled or more downloaded from the Samsung app store. For more information on the softwaresee the Galaxy S6 Edge review.The S6 Edge+ also has split-screen multitasking – allowing certain apps to run side-by-side on the screen at the same time. For the apps that support it, such as Twitter and Chrome, it works well in landscape orientation though less so in portrait. It’s a feature originally seen on Samsung’s Note series and not yet widely available.In addition to displaying contacts with “People edge”, the curved screen edges can display five apps on a slide-out panel on the left or right-hand edge for quick access from any app or screen.CameraThe many camera modes of the S6 Edge+, with more available from the Samsung app store.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe 16-megapixel optically stabilised camera is the same as theGalaxy S6 Edgeand as such is one of the best available on any smartphone. It shoots fast, has a decent array of features, captures good detail and colour and can produce photos with a narrow depth of field for pleasingbokeheffects.Low light performance is good and the camera can be quickly launched by a double tap of the home button, even when the screen is locked.The front-facing 5-megapixel camera is solid for selfies, although Samsung’s “beauty” features should be used sparingly lest you end up looking like an alien with gaunt face and big goggly eyes.Fingerprint sensorA solid, touch fingerprint sensor is built into the home button.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe fingerprint sensor is one of the best available, recognising my thumb more than 95% of the time without a second reading. It can be used to unlock the phone and authenticate purchases, as well as unlock third-party apps such as LastPass.PriceThe Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge+ is available in black or gold and costs £749 for the 32GB version and £829 for one with 64GB of storage.By comparison, Apple’s iPhone 6 Plus with 16GB of storage costs £619, with 64GB £699 and 128GB £789. That makes the cheapest S6 Edge+ £130 more expensive than the cheapest iPhone 6 Plus, while the most expensive iPhone with twice the storage is still £40 cheaper than the 64GB Samsung.Other flagship Android phablets cost from £239, with the LG G4 costing £340 and the Google Nexus 6 costing £400.VerdictCapacitive buttons are hidden on the left and right of the home button.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge+ is indisputably the king of Android phablets in Europe, but it comes with a royal price tag to match. The curved edges are attractive, and while they aid in reducing the width of the device, they don’t add anything functionally amazing. They’re mainly an aesthetic choice, though some will appreciate how they make the phone feel in the hand.It is the fastest-feeling phablet going, has an eye-catching design and is arguably the best phablet Samsung has made to date, bar possibly the Note 5, which has yet to come to Europe.If, however, you buy phablets for a stylus, expandable storage, removable batteries and long battery life: the S6 Edge+ offers none of these, so you will have to look elsewhere. Its battery lasts just a day, but it does charge fast – which some will consider a decent trade-off.When considered head-to-head against its obvious rival the iPhone 6 Plus, it does manage to fit a bigger screen into a smaller and thinner body, but you pay for that privilege at the till. And is it better than Samsung’s own, smaller, S6 Edge? Well, that just comes down to how big a phone you want.Pros:great screen, attractive design, light, compact for a phablet, premium materials, wireless charging, fast charging, very fast feeling phoneCons:no microSD card slot, no removable battery, no stylus, only one-day battery, curved edges provide little in utilityOther reviews•Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge review: curves for pleasure, not function•Samsung Galaxy S6 review: the iPhone killer•LG G4 review: one of the best phablets available, boasting an impressive camera•Google Nexus 6 review: big is beautiful, but not manageable•OnePlus 2 review: a real ‘flagship phablet killer’?•Apple iPhone 6 Plus review: it’s a very big phone and it feels great
I was interested to read Stuart Dredge’s discussion of whether tablet computers are harming children’s ability to read (Are tablet computers harming our children’s ability to read?, 24 August). It’s an important subject, but it might be useful to note that there has never been a new technology of communications that wasn’t presumed to have negative effects, particularly on the young. Sometimes, however, one is reminded that there are perhaps other ways of thinking about how technology affects children. I’ve been doing a lot of background research for an essay examining the possible social, cultural and, crucially, neurological effects of smart technology on children – it’s all still a bit vague (worth remembering that these smart technologies are new, the iPad only coming on to the market in 2010, so research is playing catch-up). Then a new perspective emerged from a surprising source. I was talking to a childcare worker, who said that she had been doing an exercise with a young girl using a booklet called You’re One of a Kind, in which the child responds to questions such as “your favourite colour/animal?” or “how tall/old are you?”. One question was: “What do you want to be when you grow up?” The child replied: “I want to be a phone so that my parents will pay more attention to me.” A four-year-old’s brutal judgment on adult absorption with technology.Professor Michael TraceyUniversity of Colorado at Boulder• The threat of the new toilet app described in Jeff Sparrow’s article (Wipe right: toilet app Looie forces movement of ‘sharing economy’ towards privatisation, 21 August) is not only of privatisation but also of the imposition of a “Silicon Valley transaction tax” on the everyday activities of people around the world. Last year, on booking an apartment in Spain through Airbnb, I realised I and the apartment owners were paying a hefty percentage to Airbnb, PayPal and MasterCard, not to mention Microsoft and Google. Also, why should buying a used mobile phone on eBay in the UK fund hot tubs in California? Where are the European alternatives to Airbnb, Visa, eBay and Google? Time for a bit of real competition.Scott WilsonSt Andrews, Fife
The first autonomous vehicles to hit US highways will not be Google or Apple cars, but self-driving trucks – and they will be riding roads in Florida by the end of the year.The self-driving construction vehicles, fitted with special rear-end crash barriers and lights, have been successfully demonstrated, driving using GPS waypoints and following a lead car, mimicking its path, braking and speed.The specialised crash trucks are fitted with large signs to warn road users of the presence of workers and are used to protect construction crews resurfacing roads, painting lines, inspecting bridges or installing traffic signals.‘Literally waiting to be struck’Impact attenuators – or crash cushions – on the rear of the vehicles, which absorb impacts and protect workers, have been credited with saving lives. But the drivers of the trucks are inevitably placed in harm’s way, “literally waiting to be struck,” said Robert Roy, president of Royal Truck &amp; Equipment, maker of the autonomous trucks.“Any time a driver can be removed from these vehicles in a very dangerous situation, and if the vehicle’s struck, there’s nobody inside of it to receive the damage or the injuries, that’s measuring success,” Roy said.Two of the autonomous vehicles will make their debut at highway construction sites in Florida by the end of the year under a state department of transportation demonstration program.‘The future of surface transportation’Crash trucks have been in use for 30 years. A recent study in the Journal of the Transportation Research Board, found they cut work-zone injuries and fatalities from rear-end crashes by almost half.“Connected and autonomous vehicles in general are viewed as the future of surface transportation, and this technology may be one of the first ways in which it gets commercialised,” said Gerald Ullman of Texas A&amp;M’s Transportation Institute, author of the study.Technology companies includingGoogle, Uber andApplehave been developing and testing autonomous vehicles on some US roads, while car makers such asVolvohave demonstrated systems capable of creating autonomous road trains or cars that can find carparks and park themselves.Daimler Trucks recently demonstrated the first self-driving tractor-trailer to be licensed on public roads, but the company said it would be years before a self-driving truck hits the market.The Royal driverless crash truck is being developed in partnership with technology firm Micro Systems, which supplies unmanned vehicles to the US military.Royal said the terms of the agreement with Florida’s transportation department are still being negotiated, but that trucks should hit roads by the end of the year.•Elon Musk: self-driving cars could lead to ban on human drivers•Nevada clears self-driving 18-wheeler for testing on public roads
Angry Birds creator Rovio Entertainment is preparing for another round of layoffs, announcing plans for up to 260 redundancies followingthe departure of 110 staff in late 2014.The new layoffs will be accompanied by a previously-announced focus on games, media and consumer products, which seemingly spells the end for the company’s efforts in the education sector.The company’s chief executive Pekka Rantala said: “Rovio’s growth and eagerness to explore new business opportunities over the past few years have been exceptional. As a result, we did too many things.”Related:Angry Birds revenues fell in 2014 due to sharp decline in merchandise salesHe added: “In our current financial condition we must now put focus on where we are at our best: in creating magnificent gaming experiences, in producing an amazing animation movie and in delighting our fans with great products.”Jobs are at risk in Espoo, where the Finnish company has its headquarters, and at its offices in Shanghai, Stockholm, London and Tokyo but staff working on the Angry Birds Movie in the US and Canada are exempt.Rovio’s revenues fell by 9% in 2014to €158.3m (£114.3m) as sales of Angry Birds toys and other merchandise fell by 43.4% – outweighing a 16.3% increase in spending within its mobile games.If Rantala’s comments and the narrower corporate focus sound familiar, that’s because they mirror the announcement of Rovio’s previous round of redundancies by his predecessor, Mikael Hed.“We have been building our team on assumptions of faster growth than have materialised,”he said in October 2014. “As a result, we announced today that we plan to simplify our organisation around our three key businesses with the highest growth potential: games, media, and consumer products.”At the peak of its growth in 2013, Rovio added 300 new employees taking its headcount to 800. The October 2014 plans to lay off 130 staff were later reduced to 110, which suggests the new round of 260 redundancies amounts to nearly 38% of Rovio’s current workforce.Related:Angry Birds 2 review – new twists on a familiar friendRovio is still working on its Angry Birds movie, which is set for release in 2016. Rantala was optimistic about the performance of the company’s latest gameAngry Birds 2, pointing to 50m downloads in its first month after release.“Fundamental changes are needed to ensure Rovio succeeds in its global ambitions to be the leading entertainment company with mobile games at its heart,” he said. “This is personally a difficult decision. However, it is certain that a leaner and more agile Rovio is absolutely necessary to move forward and take the company to new successes in the future.”Angry Birds 2 may have an impressive downloads total, but the game is still finding its feet commercially. In the key market of the US, for example, it is currently the 58th top-grossing app in Apple’s App Store. In the UK it is 44th, and in its native Finland it is 29th.
Two of the UK’s most prominent children’s websites, Moshi Monsters and Bin Weevils, have been rapped by the Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) for promoting paid subscriptions to their players.Both sites, which offer a blend of games, character customisation and social features, were ruled to have breached the UK’s “CAP Code” advertising standards on social responsibility, as well as direct exhortation and parental authority.Related:Who is responsible for kids and in-app purchases: Apple, developers or parents?Thecomplaint against Moshi Monsters’ parent company Mind Candyfocused on ads within its virtual world for paid memberships, promoting “all sorts of cool extras” if children persuaded their parents to pay a monthly subscription.Bin Weevils’ parent company 55 Pixels wastargeted for similar promotion of paid memberships, as well as directing players to a page selling its “Dosh” virtual currency.The ASA has told both companies not to show the relevant ads again in the form complained about, as well as to avoid phrases like “Join now”, “Become a member” and other direct exhortations to make payments.In its ruling on Moshi Monsters, the ASA added that phrases such as “Members are going to be super popular” put pressure on children to buy (or pester for, given that parents were responsible for the actual payments) a subscription to the site.Mind Candy said the company has already made changes. “We take our responsibilities very seriously with regards to how we communicate with all of our fans, especially children,” said a spokesperson.“We have been working with the ASA to ensure that we adhere to best practice and have made changes to the Moshi Monsters game accordingly. We will continue to work with the ASA in any way possible.”55 Pixels said. “As soon as 55 Pixels were made aware of the complaint made to the ASA about a potential breach, and once we had understood the area for concern, we changed all our membership pages to comply with their recommendations. They subsequently upheld the compliant about the original wording but referenced that we now complied, in the text of the ruling.”British games industry body Ukie issued its own statement, with chief executive Jo Twist claiming that the rulings are “a useful piece of additional guidance for games companies about how existing laws apply to the new world of free-to-play business models”.Twist added that the two rulings are the only actions taken by the ASA since the UK’s Office of Fair Trading publishednew guidelines for children’s online games and apps in January 2014, suggesting that this shows the children’s games industry has taken the advice on board.Related:Moshi Monsters creators launch mobile game World of WarriorsPolicing the apps sector will be more challenging for bodies like the ASA as the boundaries between children’s and adults’ games are blurrier on smartphones and tablets.Mind Candy is behind the World of Warriors game, for example, which is free to play but includes special offers for in-app purchases of its wildstone virtual currency.World of Warriors’ spin-off magazine and trading cards may be aimed at children, but from the start, the game has been pitched at a “family” audience including adults – making it less clear-cut whether it should be judged as a children’s game.55 Pixels has launched two mobile games, Tink’s Blocks and Bin Golfin’, but both are paid for upfront rather than use in-app purchases.
Do you think it is OK to use your phone while eating? How about to make call in a restaurant? Or to take a photo at a family meal?A new study has revealed quite how rude some people think these activities are, and it suggests that the Americans asked still have a strong feeling that it’s often inappropriate to whip out our smartphones in company.The Pew Research Center interviewed 3,217 American adults– including 175 who don’t use a mobile – about phones and social interactions. It asked about any use and didn’t differentiate between using a phone to take or make a call and using it to read a message, or to take a photo or play a song.It found that only 77% think it’s “generally OK” to use a mobile while walking down the street, some 23% do not. Three quarters of those asked think it’s fine while on public transport but fewer, 74%, think so while waiting in a queue.A resounding 62% said it was “generally not OK” to use your phone in a restaurant, while 88% disapproved of mobile usage at a family dinner.The biggest mobile no-nos for Americans, though, are using a phone during a meeting (a 94% disapproval rating), in the cinema or other quiet public spaces (95%) and at a church or worship service (96%).Don’t pull your phone out in the cinema or church.The outlook for any startups planning a Shazam for sermons looks bleak, then, but Pew found that 89% of mobile users surveyed admitted to using their phone during their most recent social gathering.Some 61% read texts or emails, although only 52% sent them. Photos or videos were taken by 58%, while 52% received an incoming call and 33% made an outgoing one. Apps were used by 29% while 25% searched or browsed the web.Related:Are tablet computers harming our children's ability to read?Are phones taking us away from our friends and family? Pew found that 16% of people used their phone because they “were no longer interested in what the group was doing” while 10% wanted to “avoid participating in what the group was discussing” – arguably a useful social function in its own right.But its research cites several “group-contributing” reasons for using a mobile during a social gathering, from the 38% of people who are searching for information they thought would be interesting for the group, to the 41% sharing something from the event via text, email or social networks.One big caveat to all these figures is that Pew only surveyed adults. If it asked younger teenagers whether it’s acceptable to use their phones during a family dinner, for example, the response might have been quite different.
