SomethingAwful.com has been living up to its name by publishing excerpts from AOL search logs, including the same user 39509 searching for both "games for church youth groups" and "preteen nude pics" SeeAOL Search Log Special, Part 1andPart 2.Comment: Briefly amusing but ultimately depressing.
Pretty heated argument over the weekend, started by Microsoft at a conference in New Zealand, then trampled on by former Microsoft geek blogger Robert Scoble. The jumping off point was a post byRichard MacManus:George Moore also told the conference attendees some stats of the current MS active audience - 240M Hotmail users, 230M Messenger, 72M Spaces, 8M mobile subscribers. He tells the mostly developer crowd at TechEd that "this is the audience that can be reached by Windows Live services." He goes on to say that at any one moment, 20M people are simultaneously connected on Messenger and 5.7 Billion messages are sent per day. Also there are 300M F2F video conversations on Messenger every month. George said Spaces is "now the largest blogging service on the planet"Scoble challenged the last claim inIs Microsoft really the largest blog vendor?, but ran into a lot of flak over his definition of a blog. Briefly, this is: (1) Have original content. (2) Have at least 500 words of new text-based content every month. (3) Have at least two posts in at least the past 30 days. (See comment 23 for a more formal but different definition.)See also:Scoble says half of all Live Spaces aren't blogs*,The blog counting game,"Where's the blog?" in Windows Live Spaces?,The elephant in the kitchenetcComment: Lots of people weighed in on this one, possibly because it's one of those cases where both sides are clearly wrong. Whatever George Moore said, the claim that Spaces is the biggest blogging service is misleading. It might be the service that has most members and that also allows people to blog -- unless MySpace has more members. But most Spaces users don't actually use the blogging feature, or use it for a private blog.In a comment to Scoble's post,Mike Torresfrom the Spaces team says: "Spaces started as a communications tool for your Messenger contacts (friends and family) and that's how a *lot* of people use it today."Fair enough, but it's not what Scoble (or many other people) would call blogging.On the other had, hardly anyone agrees with Scoble's definition of a blog, because too many things don't fit. For example, there are private blogs, internal company blogs, and blogs for specific functions (eg organising a wedding) that have finite life-spans, and so on. Most people (including me) think these are blogs even if they don't ping Technorati every 15 minutes.To add something, there are also things that aren't really blogs, they are just Web sites created using blogging software.The problem is that there are now too many different types of blog doing too many different things for them all to fit a simple definition. We can either live with that real world fuzziness or start inventing new terms for things that don't fit the traditional definition, and "spaces" (MySpace, Live Spaces) could be one candidate. What do you think?Update: Scoble has now postedOK, OK, I was wrong about blogging
With over 8 million PS2's sold in the UK - will the PS3 do this well? - it was only a question of time before Sony began targeting consumers who had previously been resistant to the console's charms. Yes, Sony are launching a pink PS2 console. It comes bundled with pink controllers and memory card plus a copy of Singstar Popworld and mics. Cynical targeting of 8 year old girls you say? Well, it didn't harm Nintendo and their highly successful pink DS. The popularity of Singstar and Buzz - or "socially interactive" games as the press release calls them - would suggest the market is ready for the pink PS2. But just in case, Sony have said it will be "limited edition" when it launches on the 8th Nov this year.UpdateSony have reduced the price of the normal "black" PS2 to 94.99 pounds in the UK. The opening shot in the Christmas sales war has been fired...
I don't play WoW, I leave that to people likeGregwho can't get enough,Joi Itowho uses it as a social networking exercise, andTom Coates, who recently reached the pinnacle of WoW experience - achieving Level 60. Tom has written an extraordinarily evocative post about his relationship with the game now that he has ascended into WoW heaven which offers some explanation as to why I don't partake in this particular kind of activity:I honestly don't know how I feel about the whole thing. It was - frankly - sort of an anti-climax. Nothing happened, I just remained being level sixty. There was no sense of a threshold being reached. My character - the same character I've been playing on and off since November - was just slightly more powerful than he was before. And a whole range of long extended new quests wandered off before him. There would be no new spells, no new pets, no real development - except in sets of armour and property. Each quest, each raid will now be longer and more involved than they were before - a dungeon taking two or three evenings to explore properly and requiring a group of people to play with that I've struggled to collect along the way. The whole game now feels very laborious and slow - the simple pleasures of earlier in the game, where you were picking up new abilities and developing quickly have just disappeared, to be replaced with something more drudgelike, robotic and ... as the people in game describe it ... grinding.Even more so:while I feel no massive compromise to my life is occurring now, while my relationship with the game is merely grudging at the moment, I can imagine coming to hate the game and yet still wanting to play it. Is that an extraordinary statement? Is that a piece of self-insight there, or is it something about the game? I can't tell where the fault lies if there is a fault?An interesting sentiment the same week as a clinical psychologist suggested that40% of WoW players are addicted.Some deep thoughts. ViaAlice.
Search Engine Watch has a little piece aboutGoogle Complaints Against Others Who Registered Google-Like Domain Names. Danny Sullivan has added a postscript with some highlights of thecomplaint resolutoin. These include:+ Respondent states that her intended business name is not "GOOGLE Checkout," which ostensibly is identical to the disputed domain name, but rather the term "Go Ogle Checkout," which Respondent contends is not. She intends to use this term in conjunction with an online dating service....
SocialMeteris a straightforward little site. Paste in your URL and it gives it a score based on the number of links it finds at Google, Delicious, Digg, Reddit, Furl, etc -- 11 sites in all. (If you have a popular site, it's not quick.)Is it any use? Well, it could be a good way to track one site across time. Otherwise,http://www.socialmeter.com/is probably as reliable as its sources, which may be "not very".For example, SocialMeter gives itself a low score because it doesn't find any links in Google.According to a comment below: "The reason for this is that Google takes between one and two weeks to add new pages into its databse, so all these links in the past few days won't get shown there."(In an earlier version of this post, I wondered if there was some other reason Google wasn't listing them, but clearly this is a far more likely explanation.)Either way, it does point up the potential problem of comparing sites using one-off searches with SocialMeter: the sources may not always be updating at the same time and at the same rate.
It looks like a heap of rubbish, feels like flaky pastry and has been linked to aliens. For decades, scientists have puzzled over the complex collection of cogs, wheels and dials seen as the most sophisticated object from antiquity, writes Helena Smith. But 102 years after the discovery of the calcium-encrusted bronze mechanism on the ocean floor, hidden inscriptions show that it is the world's oldest computer, used to map the motions of the sun, moon and planets.'We're very close to unlocking the secrets,' says Xenophon Moussas,an astrophysicist with a Anglo-Greek team researching the device. 'It's like a puzzle concerning astronomical and mathematical knowledge.'Known as the Antikythera mechanism and made before the birth of Christ, the instrument was found by sponge divers amid the wreckage of a cargo ship that sunk off the tiny island of Antikythera in 80BC. To date, no other appears to have survived.'Bronze objects like these would have been recycled, but being in deep water it was out of reach of the scrap-man and we had the luck to discover it,' said Michael Wright, a former curator at London's Science Museum. He said the apparatus was the best proof yet of how technologically advanced the ancients were. 'The skill with which it was made shows a level of instrument-making not surpassed until the Renaissance. It really is the first hard evidence of their interest in mechanical gadgets, ability to make them and the preparedness of somebody to pay for them.'For years scholars had surmised that the object was an astronomical showpiece, navigational instrument or rich man's toy. The Roman Cicero described the device as being for 'after-dinner entertainment'.But many experts say it could change how the history of science is written. 'In many ways, it was the first analogue computer,' said Professor Theodosios Tassios of the National Technical University of Athens. 'It will change the way we look at the ancients' technological achievements.'
Close your eyes and let the music seep into you: the flutes, oboes and clarinets, the trumpets, horns and trombones, the violins, cellos and harps. Open your eyes and you would expect to see these instruments in full cry - not a computer monitor blinking back at you.The human orchestra, immaculately dressed in bow ties and elegant dresses, is facing an unprecedented challenge from the heap of wires and microchips in the corner of a room. It is quicker and cheaper, hits every note to perfection and never makes a mistake. The age of the computer composer has arrived.A program developed in Vienna mimics human musicians in the performance of greats such as Bach, Beethoven and Mozart so convincingly that a casual listener to Classic FM would be unable to tell the difference. Perhaps more importantly, it allows notes - 1.5 million different sounds, to be precise - to be combined in new ways, so that composers can make new music on their laptop without needing to hire an orchestra.The software from the Vienna Symphonic Library (VSL) has now been bought by around 10,000 people around the world including students, musicians seeking their big break and composers for television and film, where the money-saving potential is huge. It was used extensively for the soundtrack of the Hollywood vampire film Underworld, starring Kate Beckinsale and Michael Sheen, and is expected come to London's West End as support to the live orchestra for the musical version of The Lord of the RingsEach note is the product of years of painstaking recording sessions by leading Austrian musicians in a soundproof studio specially built with two thick brick walls and an interior shell of Gyprock plasterboard plates. They attempted to set down the full range of 'perfect' single notes from around 100 instruments - more continue to be added - which were then digitally stored in the most extensive musical database of its kind. They are made available to composers - packages range from &pound;500 to &pound;6,000 - who can put selected notes together to create an entire symphony on their PC.The idea came about when Herb Tucmandl, a former cellist in the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra, became frustrated by a lack of funds for trying out his ideas when composing music for films. There were already pre-recorded sample libraries - digitised single sounds as well as sequences of tones - available, but only on a few CD-Roms with limited range.He found a financial backer for his dream of a vast library of samples which could match a human orchestra.Tucmandl hired more than 100 musicians who devoted up to a year of their lives to the recording project, sometimes under huge mental and physical strain. For the sake of consistency, all the samples had to be played by the same musician on the same instrument.'I needed better tools to make music and it was not possible to fake an orchestra at that time,' said Tucmandl, who started the VSL in 2000. 'One instrument alone can take more than a year to record. There are many parameters - the loudness, the connection between two notes, the different playing styles. 'Tucmandl does not claim that the VSL is identical to the sound of a human orchestra playing together at one time. 'A human professional musician is of course faster than our sounds,' he said. 'We have 1.5 million samples, but real musicians have more. I don't think we'll ever get them all.'And he denied that he is setting out to supplant humans. 'I don't think orchestras are threatened. In the TV industry, for example, we don't have the budgets for orchestras anyway. And there are still live performances: nobody goes to a concert to listen to a computer.'Close, but no encore: an expert viewThe Observer challenged Paul Hughes, general manager of the BBC Symphonic Orchestra, to compare the VSL's version of Samuel Barber's Adagio for Strings with a 1992 recording by a Bonn orchestra. He took less than a minute to spot the computer version.'It's the texture. The attack of the bow on the string. The computer version is almost too perfect. It's impressive, but you don't have the right sort of phrasing.'Hughes also listened to an extract of Ravel's Mother Goose Suite via the VSL: 'It's very good and beautiful, but incredibly bland. I've spent a lifetime listening to orchestras and you can hear when someone is taking a breath before playing a woodwind, even if you can't hear the breath itself. With this, you get no sense of that at all.''Music is a social activity. No two performances are ever the same and people go to concerts for the live-ness. What's happening on stage is vitally important to understanding what the piece is.'
Game of the week: Eagle Eye GolfDear Tiger Woods,I'm sorry. I have betrayed you. For years you've been there in your PGA Tour game, helping decide who'll make tea, sitting patiently by the console; a trusty companion in hours of boredom. You taught me all I know about Playstation golf, and this is how I repay you - using those skills to play another, snazzier computerised golf game.It's not Eagle Eye Golf's fault - I wanted to hate it; truly I did. The annoying music, the silly Tekken-style 'survival mode' (trying to hit a ball into a hole in fewer shots than a virtual Scotsman in a flannel waistcoat cannot be construed as a fight to the death), the truly terrible faux-English accents. I scoffed at first; I thought it would never measure up to the high standards you set, but it wore me down. I felt so sheepish taking it out of the box, leaving you on the side. I tried to pretend I was just giving it a go, trying something new, but it made me smile. It ticked all my boxes of virtual golfing amusement.It started as a casual thing but I ended up creating whole courses using the edit facility. That took real commitment; I'm not proud of myself. Yes, I created my own hilariously overweight, badly-dressed golfer; I'm ashamed to admit it. I put him in hot pink shorts and gave him a dubious Cockney accent. And I laughed.Soon everyone joined in. The multiplayer options seemed so new and exciting: Best Ball, Sudden Death and the saucy 2Ball4Some. It went beyond tea-making deciders and into the realm of competitive play.Sure, your graphics are great. You look good but, let's face it, you're a bit ... dull. I know golf doesn't exactly have an exciting reputation, but it is a game, after all. Why not make it more kung-fu-style? Why not have loud shorts instead of insipid chinos?Perhaps I just took it for granted that you'd always be there. Maybe if you had spiced things up a bit more in your last release, things would be different. I'm not saying we can't work it out, just that you'll have to try a bit harder when developing PGA Tour 07. Try putting a bit more fun back in and stop taking it all so seriously.Until then Eagle Eye will be a part of my life, and I'll continue trying to win frustrating challenges and unlock weird, robot golfers. There is a way back for us, Tiger, but you'll have to put the effort in again.Gemma Clarke&#183;PS2, &pound;29.99, 505 GamestreetLet's make a soccer team!While the Football Manager series looms large over the PC management sim market, its success has never been replicated on a console. Japanese hit Let's Make a Soccer Team! attempts to change that.It's more of a Chairman sim than a classic management game - a virtual Simon Jordan, if you will. Without the permatan. You customise every aspect of the club, from kit colour (I plumped for a fetching Magenta), to ticket pricing and members of staff.It's a novel approach, expanding responsibilities beyond the realm of tactics and transfers. Negotiating with sponsors and expanding into foreign territories add depth to a tired genre.However, for a game largely dependent on textual relations, the level of English is embarrassing. If that wasn't bad enough, the football side of things is terrible. There is no feeling of control, whether viewing the match in 2 or 3D, rather the experience is of watching someone else play Pro Evo or Football ManagerLMAST! (it doesn't even abbreviate well) has some nice ideas that could have taken it beyond other such games, but they forgot the most important part: the soccer.Toby Moses&#183;PS2, &pound;29.99, 505 GamestreetFE.A.R. CombatFE.A.R. Combat is the multiplayer element of one of 2005's best shooters, now available for free by logging on atwww.joinfear.comand downloading some files which will enable you play online. The 10 modes include straight deathmatch, which is basically kill-or-be-killed and then come back to life and kill-or-be-killed again. There is also the more authentic Elimination, where you don't get 'respawned' and the last man standing wins. There are also team versions of these two, and the old standby capture the flag. The 19 maps are called things such as Asylum, Dock, Cafeteria, Waterworks and Evacuation - these last two are presumably very scary. The original game was a winning combination of horror, gore and solid shooter action.Online it's all fast movement and sudden death, and it's a shock to come up against real and experienced opponents after the dumb artificial foes you get in single-player games. My measly five kills in my first visit to a deathmatch in the Cafeteria were mostly down to coming across poor slobs who were already occupied with another player. (And I learned that joining a team deathmatch and straightaway killing a teammate is somewhat frowned upon.) It's not an experience for the faint hearted, but if you can stand the heat you'll love these kitchens.Jeff Cotton&#183;PC, free download, vivendi
It seems pretty clear to a lot of people that Google is now well on the way to owning the Web, and small competitors such as Kiko are startingto quit.Paul Grahamsays: "The killer, unforseen by the Kikos and by us, was Google Calendar's integration with Gmail. The Kikos can't very well write their own Gmail to compete."I don't quite understand why this was unforeseen, becauseintegrationis inherent in the strategies both Microsoft and Yahoo have been following for years. But still, Graham says: "It seems to be the first example of Google benefiting from the Microsoft Office effect. In the 80s and 90s, Microsoft gradually killed off the competitors of its individual applications by making them tightly integrated. Obviously this works for web apps too."Therefore: "The best solution for most startup founders would probably be to stay out of Google's way."But over at 37signals, David Heinemeier disagrees. InGoogle does not render resistance futile:No. Don't run, don't hide. Be different. You can't outdo Google by trying to match them point-by-point, but you don't have to. There are other, better ways to fight. Compete differently.Naturally, all examples are different, but we launched the Backpack calendar late in the game. After Gcal, Kiko, and many others. We even dared hide it behind a pay-to-play wall (starting at $5/month).The obvious response was quickly made byDr Nicwho pointed out that 37signals doesn't have a standalone calendar and is benefiting from integration, just like Google. (In this case, integration ith BackPack.)The more interesting response isActual lessons from Kiko, written by someone on the team. Richard White says:We didn't have the capital, and not just in the monetary sense, to take Kiko where we thought it would successful: the small business / OEM market. The team was burned out and we decided that it was time to find someone else to carry the torch. We did not run out of money. In fact, we pulled up well short of the end of our runway.It's all a bit inconclusive but White does make some interesting points, especially one related to the bubble that is the blogosphere:To a degree, it didn't matter how many posts we got on TechCrunch, LifeHacker or Scoble; we would still be stuck in the same Technosphere duking it out with Google, 30Boxes and everyone else. You can make a nice living just pimping your wares in the technosphere ... but if you ever want to gain any real traction as an online calendar service you have to target the cubicle dwellers and their Outlook calendars that only exist outside the sphere. Techie users are fickle, transient and demanding. You can spend all of your time implementing ATOM feeds and hCalendar export and never be the better for it.We didn't have a plan for how to go mainstream, which, in hindsight, was a prerequisite for our success. We would have needed capital to do old school PR, marketing and sales and develop a sync service for Outlook. That said, I don't think either of Google Calendar or 30Boxes have managed this feat either.Update: Today (Tuesday) the Guardian's city pages covered the story in'Google-creep' strikes again as website puts itself up for sale.
For all the past week's posts on one page, clickhere.Highlights include:PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, together at lastMicrosoft releases Live Writer for bloggersTime magazine's 50 Coolest WebsitesDell recalls batteries over fire fearsWorld of BlogcraftCoke's GTA-style advert
SingStar: AnthemsPS2 ng Sony, &pound;20, &pound;40 with microphonesSingStar's universal appeal lies in its simplicity - if you can hold a microphone and remember how It's Raining Men goes, you're in with a shot.Bringing a competitive slant to karaoke, SingStar not only displays lyrics and plays your backing track, it also detects how close your voice matches the pitch of the real song, providing limitless opportunities to find out which of you and your friends statistically has the worst voice. SingStar: Anthems brings a selection of new tunes including Bonnie Tyler's Total Eclipse Of The Heart; I Feel Love by Donna Summer and of course, I Will Survive, along with unaccountable non-anthems such as I Heard A Rumour by Bananarama and equally unexpected appearances by Girls Aloud and Charlotte Church.Little matter - if you already own and like SingStar, this &pound;20 upgrade should be at the very top of your shopping list.Pirates Of The Caribbean: Dead Man's ChestGame Boy Advance, Nintendo DS, PSP, Buena Vista Games, &pound;30 (tested on a PSP)Despite a critical savaging, the new Pirates Of The Caribbean movie is still packing them in, not least to witness Johnny Depp's priceless Keith Richards impression, which, non-coincidentally, is the only thing the videogame of Dead Man's Chest gets even remotely right.Wandering between pitilessly dull skill-free sword fights, broken up by intelligence-affronting "puzzles", play proceeds through a series of dimly lit and visually tedious levels.Depp provides his voice, and Jack Sparrow flounces around the screen like the foppish drunken pirate he is, but a combination of clumsy controls and a near- religious devotion to avoiding creativity and innovation in any guise make this a work of stultifying mediocrity and one to avoid no matter how dearly you love the films or the Rolling Stones.Street Fighter II: Hyper FightingXbox Live, ng Capcom, &pound;5Live Arcade lets broadband-connected Xbox 360 owners download 1980s-style arcade games for about a fiver. One complaint levelled at the service was that its faltering drip-feed of new titles felt excruciatingly slow. Not only are new games starting to appear more regularly, but there are now some classics emerging to join everyone's favourite shoot-'em-up, Geometry Wars, including bona fide gaming landmarks like the ageing but still special Street Fighter II.Unlike many old arcade titles, which instantly ruin their own memories with replay, Street Fighter in all its many forms manages to retain the exact same high-precision charm it did all those years ago. At least in two-player mode - single-player is just as randomly unfair and frustrating as it always was, which some purists will undoubtedly read as a heartening badge of authenticity.
MondayXbox 360 opens up to indie codersMatch the movie director with the gameBurning the competitionTuesdayNotes from the BattlefieldMovie director and game resultsGTA gives a little live... courtesy of Coca ColaEasy retroWednesdayWhen NPCs become salesmenGotta have a gimmickShow offNew Woman seeks Second LifersThursdayBehold: GenesisPS3 will win say YankeesDIY Guitar HeroHexic not HaloFridayTop 10 games by reviewer score
The Secret Diary of Steve Jobshas been hysterically funny since its recent return from death/move to a new address. There have been four posts today about Apple's use of chld labour in iPod manufacturing.Yesterday we had lawyer-proof razor wire going up around the Apple campus, and the promise that armed guards would shoot journalists on sight. There's also been a lot of riffing on the stock options situation that has led Apple todelay its next Securities and Exchange Commission filing.All this is arguably an extension of Jobs's standard Reality Distortion Field, but over-exaggerated to the point where the "new" version should probably have been renamed The Peyote Diaries. Well, apart from the bit about shooting journalists....
"Like many of you, we were concerned by reports in the press a few weeks ago alleging poor working and living conditions at a manufacturing facility in China where iPods are assembled. Our Supplier Code of Conduct mandates that suppliers of Apple products follow specific rules designed to safeguard human rights, worker health and safety, and the environment. We take any deviation from these rules very seriously," reportsApple.As a result, Apple sent a team to check the factory, and has given itself pretty much a clean bill of health. Apple says it did find some violations of its Supplier Code of Conduct, but these have been or are being dealt with.So, are iPods built by overworked peasants? Under Overtime, Apple's report says:We did, however, find that employees worked longer hours than permitted by our Code of Conduct, which limits normal workweeks to 60 hours and requires at least one day off each week.But under Worker Treatment, it says:Employees expressed dissatisfaction with some aspects of the workplace. The single largest complaint (approximately 20% of interviewed workers) was the lack of overtime during non-peak periods.So they're overworked by US standards but would do more overtime if they could get it ;-)Comment: This seems a good response in most respects, but it's not independent, and Apple's team doesn't seem to have included even one independent observer. (It also doesn't say if any were native Chinese speakers.) Since the people interviewed must have been aware that their immediate livelihood depends on Apple (or on Apple and similar Western companies), this could have influenced the results.We know this happens in the UK, where managements and union reps can produce quite different reports even after asking the same workers similar questions. It's hard to believe that it doesn't happen with a workforce that has considerably less freedom of expression, political freedom and human rights support than we do.Apple says at the end: "we've engaged the services ofVerité, an internationally recognized leader in workplace standards dedicated to ensuring that people around the world work under safe, fair and legal conditions."That is, I think, a very good thing for Apple to have done. Getting Verite (or a similar organisation) involved even earlier would have been even better.
There's a lot of speculation around Microsoft's forthcoming Zune media player, andvery few facts. However, iLounge has a piece calledZune interface, features detailed, which sounds as though it could be somewhere near the mark.Either way, bear in mind that Zune currently has a somewhat modest target, and it isn't to take over the MP3 player market. Think of it as the equivalent of the original Xbox. That was a successful project not because it was a serious threat to Sony but because it established Microsoft as a credible competitor.If Microsoft does get its foot in the door with Zune -- which is far from certain -- then the attempt to take over the market comes with Zune III in about 2011-12.
You may remember a while back I mentioned the rather strange terms and conditions for Google Checkout ("No Satanic rituals please, we're Google"):Users are also prohibited from using Checkout to sell Occult goods (that's "materials, goods or paraphernalia for use in satanic, sacrificial, or related practices" to you and me)One eagle-eyed reader has got back in touch to point out that the T&amp;Cs seem to have mysteriously changed themselves. No longer are occult goods banished to the dark and scary netherworld outside the Googleplex (though.At first I thought there was some hocus pocus involved, but fortunately I've got a saved copy of the original page, so I'm pretty sure my eyes weren't deceiving me.So what does this mean? Pressure from religious communities? A tacit acceptance of human sacrifice? I'll try and get a response from Google and see what's what.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Joystiqhas listedGameRankings' top ten games based upon cumulative scores, and it's a rather interesting read:The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time (N64, Nintendo, 97.8 avg. review)Soul Calibur (DC, Namco, 96.4 avg. review)Metroid Prime (GC, Nintendo, 96.3 avg. review)Tekken 3 (PSX, Namco, 96.3 avg. review)GoldenEye 007 (N64, Nintendo, 96.0 avg. review)Resident Evil 4 (GC, Capcom, 95.9 avg. review)Super Mario 64 (N64, Nintendo, 95.8 avg. review)Halo: Combat Evolved (Xbox, Microsoft Game Studios, 95.7 avg. review)Resident Evil 4 (PS2, Capcom, 95.7 avg. review)Half-Life 2 (PC, VU Games, 95.6 avg. review)GameRankings is an aggregator, so the scores above represent a range of accredited game review sources from both print and other media.There's a nice mix of old and new titles here, suggesting that there's at least a consistency across the years. I'm most intrigued to discover that the biggest brands - i.e., the sports sims, Grand Theft Auto, Tomb Raider and The Sims - aren't represented at all.
The South Korean government said yesterday it would give financial backing to efforts to launch "smart" clothes with built-in digital music players by the end of the year. It declined to give details.The clothing would allow people to enjoy an MP3 player's functions while avoiding the hassles of carrying the units separately.Some devices would have to be unplugged from the clothes for washing.The government, which has already backed research into smart clothing, hopes South Korea will account for more than 20% of a market that it estimates will be worth $7bn (&pound;3.7bn) by 2014.
Wireless keyboards and wireless mice should mean technical progress. Freedom for the desk-bound. Looking cooler than your average boxed-with-computer set, and typically dressed in jet black, robotic metallic or a bit of both, the mouse is now unconstrained from the cable, and can scamper around your desk like its rodent namesake.The wireless keyboard can now act as a gigantic television remote. If, like a minority of PC owners, your computer is your "media centre", it makes sense to be able to watch, rewind and mute from the comfort of your bed or couch - if you can balance the monster on your lap. A keyboard won't get lost so easily down the side of the sofa. Genuine progress for the humble mouse and keyboard combo! But it's not, and it isn't even close.Why would people have any need for a wireless keyboard? You can already buy a remote control for your PC that will miraculously fit in your palm. The keyboard is not going to escape away from under your fingertips.Yes, it may be amazing that you can type away from your desk, but that won't help when you are so far away from the screen that you are incapable of reading a blur that resembles what has been typed.Security fears are also a hidden extra with your high-tech upgrade, as a wireless keyboard will surreptitiously transmit your every keystroke to any unscrupulous types who care to look for your bank details and passwords. Within a few days, the unchained gadgets will be entirely unreliable. The mouse will behave erratically even with a full charge. You will pound the mouse up and down as your cursor begins to trace the outline of a dilapidated snowflake. And you were not drawing a dilapidated snowflake.Depending on the frequency of use, a week later the mouse will be completely dead; a few days later and the keyboard will join it. If sharing your computer, you will realise that the reason that no one's used the computer recently is that both devices need two to four batteries replaced, again. A few more changes later, and you are buying multipacks of Duracell just for the chance to use your PC for a week.Finally, after one purchase too many, these "wireless wonders" will end up dumped under your computer desk alongside the photo-quality paper and a box of floppy disks.You will find yourself going back to that yellow-white keyboard - which is so old that it doesn't have a windows key - and rifling through a box of old mice trying to find the one that still has its rubber trackball.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Technology Guardian:What effect does technology have on game design?Tim Schafer:I've always been a proponent of the idea that technology doesn't matter to game design. The example I always like to point out is Tetris, one of the greatest games ever made. And it could have been made years before it actually was - it was made on the Atari 2600 - and it would have been just as fun. It wasn't the technology that was holding the game back; it was the idea. So right now there's some awesome game out there that someone hasn't yet figured out how to work with current hardware.TG:What inspires you?TS:Working in a team. The games industry has some really creative people. It has a great mix of brilliant programming geniuses, and then you have your crazy creative artist, your animator ... there's all these people brainstorming on this project. So it gets a collaborative energy going, and that's really inspiring. And then, seeing people enjoy it. I remember it when I was playing Mario 64; that sense of wonder around being in a crazy world. And when the doors to the cellar opened, and you found a whole new area in the castle ... these things are what are remembered by fans. When I read fan mail, and fans describe having the same feeling playing Psychonauts ... it's great to be able to make that experience for someone else.TG:You're known for creating some of the most memorable characters in gaming. How do you ensure they don't become generic videogame "markers"?TS:For every character, I think about who they are, their story, what they are, and who they were before their game started. What was their life like? Where did they grow up? What were their parents like? If you figure that stuff out for every character, you can't make them all the same, so you come up with unique stories for each one. If you don't do that, you just think, "Well the character walks into the room, and there's a girl there." And all the choices about what she looks like and what she says will be generic; you tend to pull from your library of clich&eacute;s. But if you say she's from Scotland, and she's an only child, all of a sudden you start making choices and dialogue that are unique to her.TG:Do you strive to make your games unique?TS:When we're brainstorming, if we come up with an idea and someone says, "No, I've seen that in a game before," it goes out the window. It just doesn't feel right. There's no point repeating what's been done before.TG:Not that it's difficult to find something new, given how limited in concept most game content is ...TS:Yeah, there's like six allowable sources - there's Star Wars, Blade Runner ... you can do The Sopranos or Scarface. And then there's Tolkien-esque fantasy, and that's about it. And players play these games, and then they go make their own games by recycling those ideas, and it just churns and churns, using the same material. That's why it's easy to pull from something else. In Grim Fandango, we pulled from Mexican folklore. That's just the tip of the iceberg of all the stories and worlds out there.TG:But publishers tend to shy away from new concepts. Psychonauts had a few troubles finding a publisher ...TS:Well, it's a tough position to be in. I want to say, "Publishers should be more daring," but if you had $10m of your own, what would you do? If you had a choice between investing it in one game that's based on Spider-Man, and the other game was just something some guy made up, it would be tough to say, "Okay, I'll give my $10m to the completely unknown thing." So I feel for them. That said, if you look at the sales figures, the ratio of hits to misses is really low; it's one in 20, or something like that.Publishers are very risk-averse, so they lean towards licenses and sequels. But the fact is that even those are not guaranteed hits. So, if "playing it safe" does not guarantee hits, they might as well leave it up to the really creative, risk-taking people, because they couldn't do any worse.TG:Are you finding ways to circumvent the problems creative projects face? How do you feel about digital distribution, for example?TS:Definitely, we're looking at distribution by download. It's a promising avenue. So far, for me, there's always been at least one publisher interested in innovation. It's a lot of work to find that person, but we've always managed. We're definitely interested in downloadable content to make smaller games, just because it would be nice to make a game in less time than most modern games, which usually take about two to three years. Back when we did Monkey Island, that was only about nine months.TG:Other than time and money, what other factors do you have to consider now that you didn't before?TS:Well, it used to be that you'd make a game, and people would play it once, and that would be the experience. In the next generation of games, there's a much bigger emphasis on being able to play the game multiple times, customising your game, and so forth, so you can't just think about the core game any more, but how it can be customised and replayed, and that's a lot of work.TG:So people are playing games for longer periods of time?TS:People are now expecting that when the "main" game is over, they can keep playing. You know, if you finish Resident Evil, it wraps around, and you get more missions. You get different costumes, and variations, and so on. But while this is happening, the main plotline is getting shorter. It's getting down to eight hours, when we used to strive for 40. It's getting to the point where I just finished the latest Tomb Raider in a couple of nights. But you can go back and play it again in a different outfit!TG:Do you find yourself conceding to these trends so your games have a better chance at commercial success?TS:Mostly, I get an idea for a game, and then make it. Of course, you're always trying to make a game that will appeal to the largest amount of people, because you want people to see your work. I've never made a concession that made the game worse; there's always a solution that solves both problems; it can be creatively satisfying and appeals to the people. It just takes more time to work it out.TG:So you're aiming for the mainstream?TS:I would like to reach non-gamers. It's always great when guys come up to me who are gamers and represent my usual audience, but they'll say, "You know, Psychonauts is the only game I can actually get my girlfriend to play with me." And I'll say, "Man, I want to sell more games to your girlfriend! And your mom, and all these people who would really love it if they knew about it."TG:Psychonauts appealed to gamers and non-gamers, but it didn't sell well. Why?TS:There are things you can control, and things you can't. The things on our side are making the right game and making a good game. And on the other side, there's marketing and distributing. I think we made a good game. Did we make the right game? At the beginning of the process, the platforming genre was still pretty hot. But by the time we finished, platformers were definitely forbidden. You couldn't talk about making stylised art in games. You had to talk about making a gritty, urban game with a dark main character ... shadowy, half-evil, et cetera. It had distribution problems, too. People couldn't find it in stores. I go to stores now, and I see games that I know didn't sell as well as Psychonauts, and they're still on the shelves.TG:What have you learned from developing Psychonauts?TS:Hmm ... It's hard to say, because a lot of the stuff you learn isn't always pertinent. If you look back and say, "Our main character was too young," well, when Zelda appeared, there was nothing wrong with that. It's definitely inspired me to make a game whose main character is of an age more similar to our target market's. People don't seem to want to play a main character who's younger than them. But also, you know, lots of explosions. You can't go wrong with explosions. Our next game is a labour of love, and I want to work on it for many years, and it's a very personal project, but it'll still have lots of explosions.TG:Can you drop any hints on what this new game will be?TS:It is awesome and it is new.
Last week the video game news site Games Radar published the first photographs of a PS3 and Xbox 360 standing side by side (tinyurl.com/lo5ju).We've had the official dimensions for a while, of course, but actually seeing the two machines together rams home one key factor: PS3 is massive. It is the kraken of videogame consoles.And I thought Xbox 360 was hefty. When I excitedly unpacked mine a few months ago my wife gasped in horror - not just at the size of the machine itself, but at the sheer girth of the power cable, which looks like it should be supplying electricity to an immense and potentially deadly piece of farming equipment.When Sony and Microsoft told us their next-gen consoles would take over the living room, they weren't being metaphorical. I had assumed this was a reference to the all-round entertainment capabilities of the hardware, the fact that these "media servers" would be able to access music, movies and photos as well as games. But no, Sony and Microsoft just meant their consoles would be absolutely enormous.Of course, there are technical reasons for the size problem. PS3's ambitious engine, made up of a Cell processor with seven SPEs (synergistic processing elements), is cumbersome. Add in a first generation Blu-ray drive and a cooling system able to extinguish a small sun and the square inches are stacking up. But it's not just the size that upsets normal non-gaming adults - it's the thrusting conspicuousness of the machines. With all those unnecessary curves, discordant lines and bleeping LEDs, they're about as subtle as parking a tricked out Subaru Impreza WRX under the TV.This is a major problem. Despite desperately courting a more mature audience, console manufacturers are still dealing in the aesthetics of the teenage boy's bedroom, where obnoxious consumer status symbols are de rigueur. But in the living room, grown-ups like their audio visual equipment to be discreet and complementary to the surroundings. The incredible take-up in LCD TVs over the last few years isn't just down to the superior picture quality on offer - it's also the fact that they can be wall-mounted, thereby freeing up a whole corner of the room for Habitat coffee tables.If Sony and Microsoft want their next consoles to be enjoyed as objets d'art as well as objets de r&eacute;cr&eacute;ation, they're going to have a major design rethink, perhaps bringing in some high profile talent from the art or fashion worlds: maybe Grayson Perry could craft PS4 from clay or Posh and Becks could be consulted on Xbox 720. If they don't, consoles are going to end up looking like those enormous monoliths from 2001: A Space Odyssey. And only monkeys gather around those.
From the moment the first personal video players (PVP) started appearing around half a decade ago it seemed only a matter of time before they would be kitted out with TV tuners. So it's congratulations to Archos on getting there first.The AV 700TV PVP is even more desirable for the inclusion of an on-board digital TV decoder that pulls in the digital Freeview channels. Picture quality isn't quite the equal of, say, the 9in Roadstar LCD9283D digital TV, but it isn't far off. You can of course record the TV footage on the unit's integrated 40GB hard disk, the only drawback is that there is no timed recordings option. But there are two tuners on board, so you can record one channel while watching another.The AV 700TV handles both WMV and MPEG4 video files and has MP3 and WMA compatibility. If there are weaknesses, the hard drive could have been bigger and the battery life - you get under four hours of video playback - a little more generous. Nevertheless, with some retailers offering the unit for around &pound;450, I can see there being plenty of takers.
Over the years, the iPaq has morphed from a bulky but highly effective PDA into a BlackBerry influenced smartphone. The latest version, the hw6915 ,takes the iPaq to a new dimension via the introduction of some highly desirable features.In terms of design and styling there's little to differentiate the hw6915 from its predecessor in that it sports a striking 240x240 resolution 3in screen and features a full qwerty keypad. Under the hood there has been some major surgery, in particular the processor, which now runs at a speedy 416MHz, and the addition of Wi-Fi. The introduction of Windows Mobile 5.0 operating system means that the device is now compatible with a range of a push email solutions.Other features include the suite of Windows applications including Media Player, Word and Outlook, a reasonable 1.3 megapixel camera and onboard GPS (though users will need to download maps). Overall the hw6915 is a jack of all trades. It sells for about &pound;450 without a contract.
The globe, once the preserve of geography teachers and slightly dotty uncles, could be about to go mainstream. Oregon Scientific has excelled itself with this completely interactive globe. It uses a supermarket style smart code reading technology and a USB pointer to deliver key information about the world.For example, if you touch a country on the SmartGlobe, the pointer's integrated speaker can tell you about the weather, the local language, the country's history and much else. Point it at two countries and you can compare currencies, find out flying times between them and more.The globe is kept up to date via the smartpen. Connect it to a PC and you can download the latest information. There are times when the smartpen doesn't work as well as it should, and this can be very frustrating. Overall though the SmartGlobe, priced at &pound;130, is a wonderful gadget that might finally make geography cool.
The IBM Personal Computer was launched 25 years ago last Saturday, and it changed the world. It set a standard that was accepted by businesses, transforming an industry that had previously been driven by hobbyists. It provided a platform that millions of people could enhance, and it stimulated the appearance of a huge infrastructure of software, peripherals, retailers, magazines and books, training courses and other support services.Most importantly, the IBM PC was a design others could copy. This led to a global industry with more than 10,000 PC manufacturers, offering consumers a wide selection of different types of system at continually reducing prices.You don't need to ask anybody's permission to build a PC, and you can start a PC business in a garage in Peru or Afghanistan, not just in California. Although IBM anointed two small companies, Intel and Microsoft, by choosing them as suppliers for its 1981 model, neither is compulsory. You can build a PC using chips from AMD or Via, for example, and use it to run Unix or GNU/Linux instead of Windows, but you still benefit from the low prices created by the PC industry's huge economies of scale.When the IBM PC appeared in 1981, there were already lots of personal computers. There were also games computers, dedicated word processors, and a well established industry producing workstations, minicomputers, mainframes and supercomputers. Most of these were different and mutually incompatible. Even computers designed for much the same job using the same central processor - such as the Apple II, Commodore Pet, Atari 800 and Acorn BBC, which all used the cheap and popular MOS Technology 6502 chip - were incompatible with one another.If a company went bust or brought out an incompatible new model - and both happened often - users were left with obsolete systems. They had little choice but to buy new hardware, replace all their software, retrain their staff, and perhaps struggle to retrieve their valuable data. That wasn't the case with the PC. For one thing, no one thought IBM would ever go bust: it was the world's richest and most powerful company. For another, it didn't matter if your PC clone supplier went bust because there were hundreds of them.The IBM team that produced the PC was well aware that it was standardising the industry. For example, it decided to use 5.25in drives because they were available in high volumes at fairly low prices, and the floppies were common. IBM could have chosen 3 inch or 3.5 inch disks, or IBM's own 3.9 inch design, but none of these were plentiful and cheap. IBM chose Intel rather than Motorola chips because most business micros had been built around Intel's 8080 chip or the compatible Zilog Z80. It chose Microsoft Basic rather than IBM's Basic, because Microsoft's version was the most widely used. And it would have used the most common operating system, Digital Research's CP/M, if DR hadn't turned down the gig, leaving Microsoft scrambling to provide the workalike that IBM sold as PC DOS.In an interview in the November 1983 issue of Byte magazine, Don Estridge, the father of the PC, said: "Many who wrote about the IBM PC at the beginning said there was nothing technologically new in this machine. That was the best news we could have had; we actually had done what we set out to do."What IBM had done, in fact, was combine the best features of the most popular types of 8-bit microcomputer at the time - the Apple II, and the large number of CP/M machines - and moved them on to the next, 16-bit, level. It also introduced IBM-quality design and production, marketing, distribution and support, all of which were vital in taking the PC beyond its hobbyist roots.This represented a huge break with the usual practice adopted by IBM and other large computer companies, which was to design and build whole systems themselves. This often included the processor, the operating system, the networking, the database, all the major applications and often peripherals, too.This "vertical integration" gave the vendors almost total control, locking in users and locking out most competition. (There were, of course, PCMs - companies that made "plug-compatible mainframe" alternatives to the IBM machines that dominated the market - but staying compatible was tough.) The IBM PC's rapid rise to market dominance marked a change to the "horizontal integration" we have today. Users not only had a choice of manufacturer, they could also change their operating system, networking and applications without changing suppliers or buying new hardware.What IBM perhaps didn't foresee was that the power of the PC standard would lead to the introduction of PC-compatible handhelds, notebooks, portable PCs, workstations, fileservers, and eventually mainframe and supercomputer class machines. Today, most computers are children of the original IBM PC, and most of the giant mini and mainframe companies - Control Data, Honeywell, Burroughs, Sperry, DEC, Data General, ICL etc - are but fading memories.The open and competitive PC industry did for them. It very nearly did for IBM as well, but that's another story.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Plane computingIf it is not permitted to take a notebook computer on board a plane, is there any way to safeguard it in the baggage hold?Bruce ParryJack Schofield replies:If you want to protect a business computer you can buy a special ruggedised case such as the OtterBox (otterbox.com/products/pc_cases/laptop_case/). These are waterproof and you can certainly stand on one, or perhaps run a small car over one. They are also expensive and in short supply. But I think your best bet is to wrap your notebook PC in bubble wrap, and put in the middle of your clothes inside a hard suitcase. (My local luggage shop has just enjoyed a sudden boom in sales of those.)It would also be a good idea to assume that your notebook will not survive the trip. For me, this means putting essential files on a couple of CompactFlash cards that sit unnoticed in my wallet. (They also fit my camera and my PocketPC.) Other people have tried putting files on a USB thumb drive and wearing it as a pendant. I also stash copies of critical data files online. For extra extra backup, you can also set up your home PC so that you can access it remotely. These remain good ideas even when your laptop is allowed back in the cabin.Wi-Fi netiquetteWhen I turned on my lovely new MacBook, I was asked during set-up which of five available wireless connections I'd like to join. Given that I don't know whose they are (some have meaningless names like DG834G, others are obviously named after householders), what is the correct etiquette for using the facilities? I'd freely share a connection if I had one, but I don't want to trample on anyone else's garden.Tom AnonJS:Using someone else's connection is wrong, but you could certainly approach neighbours whose networks have recognisable names and ask permission. You could even offer to pay. Of course, some people choose network names that indicate they are happy to share. However, it still wouldn't be polite to hog the bandwidth of someone's "freenet" by, for example, file-sharing large movies.If you are on the road and stuck for a connection, very few people would object if you used their Wi-Fi to fire off a handful of emails - as long as they are not spam. Using next door's connection full time is a different matter.BackwebWhen firing up my PC, I get a runtime error: "Invalid backweb application id 768119." I can't seem to locate the source and wondered if it is doing anything serious.MaureenJS:BackWeb software is supplied by BackWeb Technologies. Many companies use it to download updates to various programs, and BackWeb's customer list includes Hewlett-Packard (and Compaq), Logitech and Kodak. However, some people consider it spyware or adware. You are most likely getting the error message because you have a PC or application that uses BackWeb but an anti-spyware has removed some or all of it. It is much better to uninstall BackWeb correctly, using the Control Panel's Add/Remove Programs utility.To stop the error message, you may also need to untick it in the System Configuration Utility. To do this, go to Start, select Run, type msconfig in the box and click OK. It should be under the Startup tab. You can often find out who installed BackWeb by searching your hard drive. For example, the files could be under C:\Program Files\Compaq Connections.Backchat&middot;I suggested simply deleting phishing messages, now that there are so many of them. Paul Laudanski of the Phishing Incident Reporting and Termination (PIRT) Squad, which I mentioned, says to send them topirt@castlecops.com. Christina Murdoch sends the ones purportedly from financial institutions toreports@banksafeonline.org.uk, and says: "eBay and PayPal phishing emails can be forwarded tospoof@ebay.co.ukandspoof@paypal.com". Martin Humphries sends "West African 419 fraud emails to Fraud Alert, the Metropolitan Police initiative, atfraud.alert@met.police.uk."&middot;Keith Williamson, of Scientific Software Systems Ltd, adds: "I quite often click on the links in these messages to see if they still work (I have a professional interest, being involved in finance sector IT). In the vast majority of cases they don't, because the offending web page has already been taken down."This suggests that anybody who is taken in by such scams must be very quick off the mark."
Yes, and soon. Microsoft says it has been inspired by the power of user-generated content on sites such as MySpace and YouTube, and it would like a similar sort of involvement from the online games community on Xbox Live. It therefore plans to release XNA Game Studio Express, which will enable people with PCs running Windows XP or Vista to create their own games.The move also chimes with the discovery that, rather than spending hours with blockbuster titles, many people enjoy the simpler games they can play on Xbox Live. Microsoft will not publish home-written efforts to begin with, but the students, hobbyists and small indies who use XNA Express will be able to join a Creator's Club ($99 a year) and share code and games among themselves.Microsoft claims that "in the 30 years of videogame development, the art of making console games has been reserved for those with big projects, big budgets and the backing of big game labels." As Keith Stuart points out on our Gamesblog, this overlooks the Sony Yaroze, a special version of the PlayStation that enabled home coders to create their own games.There was certainly a flowering of talent in the UK when people programmed their own games on 1980s home computers such as the Sinclair Spectrum and Commodore Amiga - it created the British games industry - and Microsoft would no doubt be delighted to get anything like that sort of result.Indeed, as Seattle newspaperman Todd Bishop pointed out on his Microsoft blog, it was a Londoner, Alex Mitchell, who came up with the idea for XNA Express: he suggested it in a post in Microsoft's Channel 9 developer area (http://blog.seattlepi.nwsource.com/microsoft/archives/105755.asp). But he didn't have to be "a modern-day Nostradamus" because Microsoft had already published Express versions of other serious programming tools, including Visual Basic Express.XNA is an emerging games development platform based on Microsoft's commercial software development system, Visual Studio 2005 Team System. XNA Express won't compete with that, but it should be more than enough to knock out decent games. And after all, Snake, FreeCell and Tetris have entertained far more people than Halo 2.
Battery recallDell is recalling more than 4m notebook PC batteries because of a possible fire risk. It's not the world's first such recall, but it is the biggest.Get LiveMicrosoft has released a free beta version of Live Writer, a word processor that lets users blog straight to Microsoft's Live Spaces, Blogger, LiveJournal, TypePad, WordPress and other services.http://tinyurl.com/nzyxpNet growthUS analysis company comScore Networks says 713m people aged 15 or over used the web in June. The top five countries are the US (153m users), China (78m), Japan (53m), Germany (32m) and the UK (30m). The most used web properties are Microsoft sites (499.5m), Yahoo sites (481m) and Google sites (454m).Just being socialCompete, another US web analysis firm, says that in June, two out of every three Americans online visited a social networking site such as FaceBook and MySpace. "Social networking sites are now close to eclipsing traffic to the giants - Google and Yahoo."http://tinyurl.com/lczb5X-Men to hit MySpace20th Century Fox says it plans to sell downloads of movies such as X-Men and TV programmes such as 24 on MySpace. The studio and the website are both owned by Rupert Murdoch's News Corp.Break the sound barrierGear4 is launching SonicBoom, a &pound;49.99 stereo sound system designed for the Sony PSP. It also works with iPods and other MP3 players.http://tinyurl.com/rzqgcTest your eyesVutest says it has "the only scientifically designed sight test for computer users on the internet." You can do a test in about five minutes, but it costs &pound;9.50.www.vutest.com&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
iTunes Music Store:The UK's most popular download store offers 3m tracks, which cost 79p each.www.apple.com/uk/itunes/Napster:WMA track downloads for 79p and subscriptions for &pound;14.95 a month.www.Napster.co.ukHMV Digital/Virgin Digital:WMA tracks cost 79p, subscriptions &pound;14.99 a month.www.hmv.co.uk/digitalwww.virgindigital.co.ukeMusic:Sells MP3s from independent labels to subscribers for &pound;8.99 a month.www.emusic.comWippit:Offers a choice of downloads from 29p to 99p and a subscription service for &pound;4.99 a month.www.wippit.comTuneTribe:A combination of major and independent label tracks from 79p.www.tunetribe.comBleep:Specialists in electronic and independent music, selling high quality MP3s for 99p or &pound;6.99 an album.www.bleep.comDJ Download:Dance music specialist selling high quality MP3s for either &pound;1.49 (192 kbps) or &pound;1.99 (320 kbps).www.djdownload.comBreakMyEars:Independent metal, hardcore and punk. MP3s cost 76p and a subscription service is &pound;5.99 a month.www.breakmyears.comClassical:Jazz, classical and world music. Subscription is &pound;7.99 a month.www.classical.com
My 360 conked out last week -3 red lights of death- so when the replacement arrived yesterday I ripped open the box like a man possessed. Not, you understand, because I was desperate to play anything in particular - although a return to Oblivion is imminent - but to check out how far behind I'd fallen in the unofficialgamerpointschallenge I'm having with a few friends. Unofficial because they don't know about it and I'm not telling. Unless they read this of course, in which case, slow down Dan, I can't keep up. Anyway, last night's welcome return to the console reminded me of something I've been meaning to blog about for a while -Hexic.For those who don't know, Hexic is a "free" puzzle game included on the premium Xbox 360. It's simple, addictive and quite possibly a Tetris for the 21st century. Overstatement? Possibly, but it's the one game that I constantly see being played when checking/spying on friends. Yes, it's predominantly wives and girlfriends, but considering the design nightmare that is the 360 power supply - see Keith'sarticle in Technology- I wouldn't be surprised if Hexic is used as a sweetener in the AV living room battle.I remember when a rather embarrassedJ Allardunveiled Hexic at last year'sX05 event. It didn't exactly fit in with the shiny next-gen vision of guns 'n cars and you could tell Allard was uncomfortable. But he needn't have been ashamed - when it comes to wider impact and acceptance Hexic could well end up being the 360's most important game.
When I started on Edge magazine in the late-nineties we used to subscribe to an amazing Japanese mag in which dedicated hobbyists would rip the bits out of old Master System consoles, Power Gloves and Neo Geo joypads to create their own bizarre peripherals. It's good to see this spirit is alive and well in the UK gaming press...Frustrated by the keyboard-only controls offered inFrets of Fire, a nice little PC take on Guitar Hero, James Carey of PC Format decided to take musical matters into his own hands. By combining an Early Learning Centre guitar, a Logik joystick and a soldering iron, Carey (who some of you may remember from our Battlefield session the other night) created his own functioning USB guitar. Check out the processhere.Have any readers fashioned their own interfaces out of eviscerated children's toys? Gamesblog would like to hear from you...
Maybe it has, if you care about your privacy. There's no doubt that Google does care about your privacy, and aims to protect it. Earlier this year, for example, it refused to release anonymous search data demanded by the US government for a study, even though other search engines meekly handed it over. But rather than protecting such data, you might well think Google shouldn't collect it in the first place.The question has risen to prominence over the past week, after a New York Times reporter phoned "Thelma Arnold, a 62-year-old widow who lives in Lilburn, Georgia" and revealed that he knew altogether too much about her.Arnold was the first person to be publicly identified from the anonymous search data foolishly released by AOL (America Online). Ms Arnold was shocked: "My goodness, it's my whole personal life," she told the reporter. "I had no idea somebody was looking over my shoulder."Anyone who has a complete record of your searches might be able to find you too. In fact, it could be easy if you have done any "ego surfing" or looked up things by post code. This could be worrying news if you have searched for child pornography, bomb-making instructions, or a variety of illnesses and afflictions including Aids and mental health issues. At least one person in the AOL data was searching for the best way to kill a wife.But even if you are as blameless as Thelma Arnold, you'd have to wonder whether you really want Google to record such data forever. Once it exists, it might be released either deliberately or accidentally, it could be hacked, and perhaps even trawled by governments looking for terrorists (justification) or any malfeasance they can find.The bad news is that Google - which supplies AOL's search results - has all that information and more. If you use Google's Gmail, address book, calendar, maps and other services, it could even tie your search data to things you are really doing. By the way, Google also knows which other websites you visit, if they use AdWords, and when.Google's argument for collecting and storing all this invasive data is that it can provide better search results and, particularly, better targeted advertisements. The ads are how Google makes its billions. But trading privacy risks for better advertising sounds like a bad deal for users.One answer is to delete the cookies that Google and other search engines (which are mostly as bad, or worse) put on your hard drive, and do searches via an anonymous proxy, so the search engine cannot tie them to your internet address. Another is to switch to search engines that say they don't record user data. Examples include ixquick (www.ixquick.com/) and Clusty (http://clusty.com).The Alaskan oil spill from the Exxon Valdez tanker in 1989 spurred massive interest in environmental protection. US advocates have described AOL's data spill as a "Data Valdez" and hope it will make more people care about their privacy.
If you go down to Hyde Park today, you're sure of a big surprise. Cruising alongside the usual mix of bladers, nannies and tourists, there's an exotic new addition: a sleek,virtually silent, people-carrying boat that moves as if by magic. Designed by Christoph Behling, the solar-powered vessel - the Serpentine Solar Shuttle - is the latest evidence that solar is officially hot, among designers at least.Sharp, the world's number one solar cell producer, has just turned its hand to glass studded with LED lights and cells. Instead of generating enough electricity to run a home, it creates a psychedelic light show at night, powered entirely by the day's sun: it's more likely to feature in a photo shoot for Wallpaper* magazine than a Green Party newsletter. Tory leader David Cameron's cool halo owes much to the solar panels he's installing on his Notting Hill roof. And I can't walk down the street wearing my solar backpack without being stopped by fascinated strangers, an experience Graham Hill of the American eco-blogtreehugger.comknows well.Gadgets like the backpack have certainly played a large part in solar's image revival. Our appetite for consumer electronics of all sorts has grown hugely over the past few years, with sales totalling a record $135.4bn (&pound;71.4bn) in the US alone last year. With so many gizmos to power, solar suddenly has new uses. When Will Gould, a gadget lover and TV script editor, set off to travel the world for a year, his first purchase was a solar charger for iPods and phones. "I didn't know when I'd be near a plug socket," he explains, "and, yes, there's gadget lust: the Solio I bought has a beautiful flower-like, iPod white design".Once a distant technology that sat on roofs and was hard to understand, solar power has become a tool that we can hold in our hands. As John Laumer, a Treehugger contributor, puts it, "seeing is believing". New gadgets increasingly have solar built-in. Recent outlandish additions include a solar-powered tent, scooter and LED house numbers, while mundane ones like bike lights, torches and radios have been around for years. "Solar bags" that charge anything smaller than a laptop have been particularly popular, and when the hip snow'n'surf brand O'Neill introduced one, it sold out. Even high street store Maplins now sells the Scotty, a relatively cheap (&pound;35) solar charger.Like other elements of the green revolution - such as furniture and fashion - design has been key. Adam Thacker, from Better Energy Systems,the Solio's maker, says: "When we first looked at making a renewable-powered charger, it fast became apparent that most stuff was sold by making people feel guilty about their environmental impact. Design is so important. The iPod's not the best MP3 player out there, but it's caught people's imagination because of the way it looks."Purchases inspired by design and hands-on experience have gone some way to demolishing ignorance about solar power. Contrary to popular myth, solar cells don't need direct sunlight to produce electricity, and Britain's actually quite well located for the sun. Sharp's research says that if every single building in the UK was roofed with solar panels, we'd generate more than the UK's present industrial and residential electricity consumption - there'd be no need for gas, nuclear, coal or even wind power.Clearly, some of us are waking up to the benefits of making our own electricity at home. Solarcentury, a company promoting solar in the UK, has seen sales to its residential installers - the teams that fit solar panels on homes - double between 2005 and 2006. Donnachadh McCarthy, who offers "eco audits" from his solar-powered south London home, thinks the Cameron effect shouldn't be ignored."He's definitely made solar sexy. Lately, I've had several rich, naturally Tory, clients who want solar, and their genuine motivation is to reduce carbon emissions," he says. "But there are a host of other reasons. One family was concerned about its lighting going off in the case of an energy emergency or oil crisis."There's also a practical, very British reason for our interest in solar: money. With the average household's electricity bill above &pound;900 (and set to rise again with British Gas's latest price rises), solar panels start to make sense at &pound;4,000, after you've received a government grant available for installation. They can add value, too. When two new homes in Norfolk sold recently, the one with solar PV roof tiles by Solarcentury sold for 8.6% more than its neighbour. Energy efficiency ratings in next year's home information packs, grants of up to &pound;3,000 and imminent improved planning laws should help further.Solar may suddenly be cool, but there are reasons for pause. The recent government energy review contained little concrete promotion of solar, and the scale of what's been achieved can be overstated. As McCarthy points out, "only 100 solar PV installs have happened in London since 1999, so it's perhaps a bit early to say it's truly trendy." Plus the price of fitting solar on your home is unlikely to drop soon, since silicon - the raw material in solar cells - is currently in high demand. Sharp, however, is working to keep prices down by slicing the silicon used in cells even thinner than today's 180 microns.Still, the forecast looks bright for solar. Cameron's celebrity power shouldn't be underestimated, our growing gadget energy use - expected to double by 2010 - should ensure cheap green alternatives' success, and ethical living is in fashion. If you're making fairtrade, organic and green choices in other areas of your life, solar's the next obvious step. Besides, as the thronged parks and high streets of summer prove, we Brits love anything to do with the sun.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
"The other day, Noel Gorelick of Arizona State University and Google Mars fame gave me an amazing demo of images taken with a very cool new 3D live motion video camera that usesLIDARtechnology to get a range-finding for every pixel. Advanced Scientific Concepts, the company that built the camera, is so young that they don't have a website up, but here's one of the images" writers publisherTim O'Reilly.The creators of the technology dida Google Tech Talk about it.
Kubrick's new limited edition GTA range.Wow.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Brent Hoberman, the co-founder of online travel company lastminute.com, has emerged as the backer of a new social networking website targeting UK university students.The new site, Univillage.com, is being launched today to coincide with up to 400,000 students receiving their A-level results.Univillage hopes to sign up members through a deal with Ucas, the body responsible for processing applications for higher education.The deal will see Univillage.com promoted to all school leavers who receives their A-level results."Like lastminute.com, social networking is here to stay," said Mr Hoberman, who will act as a non-executive director and strategic adviser.Mr Hoberman, who launched lastminute.com alongside Martha Lane Fox in 1998, stepped down from his role as chief executive of the firm in April but retains a limited role as part-time chairman.The site will only be available for UK students - blocking anyone who doesn't possess an "ac.uk" email extension.The site will connect students at universities across the UK and offer them the chance to create profiles, share music, photos and videos.It has set up partnerships with Universal, EMI, Warner, Sony BMG and a range of independent record labels.The company was co-founded by Henry Yates and Andrew Needham, who also set up youth marketing agency Face.Mr Needham founded Student Pages in 1989, subsequently selling the business to the Daily Mail Group.Univillage will find itself competing head to head with US university networking giant Facebook.com which has recently started to make ground in the UK market and has proved popular with students at Oxford and Cambridge.The UK has several successful social networking sites including MySpace, Faceparty and Bebo, with the latter has proving popular with younger users.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
"Hang on, I'll write it down for you." The woman serving at The Oxford Pasty Cafe in the middle of the city's covered market disappears into the small kitchen off to the side and comes back with the torn corner of a pasty wrapper on which she has written in red pen: "OPC 25 155 866."As unlikely as it seems, this slip of paper represents a revolution in communications. It is a username and password and it provides 24 hours of high-speed internet access. But most importantly it was handed over for free with an "Oxford Blue" cornish pasty and a can of Coke.Outside the shop, a folding blackboard offers free tea or coffee with any cake bought before midday and after 3pm, and the one next to it: "Free Wi-Fi internet available all day, every day." Both serve the same purpose, to attract customers, but the latter demonstrates that there is a new breed of customer out there: pasty eaters of the mobile internet generation.It helps that Oxford is a university town, so there is an abundance of young people for whom email and net access is an essential part of life. But it isn't just students with laptops. More and more electrical goods are starting to include Wi-Fi to benefit from fast data exchange. Almost without exception, PDAs now include wireless internet technology and the next generation of mobile phones out later this year will have it as standard.If you want to check your email, or make a free phone call using VoIP while out of the house, it is going to be internet "hotspots" that make it possible. It isn't just The Oxford Pasty Cafe that recognises it, either. The cafe owner was initially intrigued when a rival coffee shop a five-minute walk away advertised its free wireless service. Mortons on New Inn Hall Street has a different approach - you only get 30 minutes of free wireless and only if you spend &pound;3 or more (&pound;5 at lunchtime).Both shops are supplied by the same company - Hotspot Solutions (www. hotspot-solutions.co.uk), based in Warwickshire, and the company has a refreshing take on wireless internet access.Hotspot Solutions caters for everyone from big conference venues to local corner shops. The company's approach, managing director Jamie Hind tells us, is the antithesis of public hotspots in the UK, most of which charge an extortionate &pound;6 an hour or insist on people signing a 12-month contract to get a lower rate. The company, Hind says, simply provides a managed service for a flat monthly fee. In the case of the two Oxford cafes, that is &pound;25 a month, all-in. The price is low enough for shop owners to make a profit through new business.But Hotspot Solutions is not the only provider interested in Oxford. One of the UK's biggest public Wi-Fi suppliers, The Cloud, hopes to roll-out a city-wide "hot zone" by the end of the summer. It has struck revenue-sharing deals with local councils across the country and will use street furniture such as lampposts to run access points covering a wide public area.The Cloud charges a high per-hour fee but earlier this month announced a new low-cost Ultra Wi-Fi service where you get unlimited access to its 7,500 hotspots countrywide for &pound;11.99 a month.There is a third approach. As the UK's largest telco, BT has always charged a premium. At &pound;6 an hour, or &pound;25 a month on a 12-month contract, BT is the most expensive option. But it has decided to take advantage of people's increasing use of Wi-Fi to persuade them to use its other services. So if you sign up with BT for your home broadband, you now get 250 free minutes a month anywhere on its wireless network. If you are already a broadband customer you can get 500 minutes a month for just &pound;5 - a third of the normal cost.Whichever way you look at it, the days of widespread public net access are upon us. The only issue to be decided is how much we are willing to pay for it.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
On our Gamesblog,Keith Stuart says:"Just in case you've somehow missed this -- Coke has launched afantastic new advertset in a GTA-style environment. In the thirty second segment, created by advertising agency, Wieden &amp; Kennedy, a rough-looking character is seen pulling a passing motorist from his vehicle - but instead of stealing the car, the Tommy Vercetti look-alike simply hands over a Coke before carrying out a series of other good deeds while a song called 'Give A Little Love' builds to an overblown stage show crescendo in the background."This one could go down in Cokelore, though probably still as a footnote to the famousHilltop advert, which remains a classic after 35 years.....
Some of us believe that the future of the videogame industry is impossible to predict due to the unthinkable myriad of demographic, economic and developmental factors that contribute to the varying fortunes of different platforms. But we're wrong. Research companies know what's going to happen and thankfully they're willing to tell us.This time The Yankee Group has issued a report announcing that Sony will hold off the stern challenges from Microsoft and Nintendo to once again dominate the world of interactive entertainments. The company'spress releasemakes the following ardent declaration (if you would like the future of the videogame industry to remain a fantastical mystery please look away now:"by 2011 the PlayStation 3 will have sold about 30 million units and account for 44% of cumulative third-generation console sales in North America. Comparatively, Microsoft will have sold nearly 27 million units by 2011, accounting for 40% of the market and Nintendo will have sold just over 11 million units, accounting for 16% of the market."I'd love to know how they come up with these figures - so precise, so assured. There must be complex mathematics and computers involved. I would hate to visit their offices and find a room full of smoking chimpanzees locked in cages and forced to point at pictures of different videogame consoles.Unperturbed by the seeming impossibility of the task, they make more prophesies later in the release:Overall, fewer consoles will be sold this generation. Yankee Group anticipates that as a result of higher console prices, overall unit sales will lag the previous generation of consoles (i.e., PS2, Xbox and GameCube).Microsoft will put significant price pressure on Sony during the PS3's lifecycle. In addition to starting at a lower price than the PS3, Microsoft is well positioned to make a large price cut in the spring of 2007 and each year thereafter--putting significant price pressure on Sony.Thank you for that Yankee Group. Thank God someone knows what's going on.
Phone spamYour article on phone spam (Spam is on the move from email to phone lines, August 10) identifies the problem but ignores the solution.Phone companies in the US allow subscribers initially to block incoming calls that have no calling line identification (caller ID) but allow genuine callers (those using VoIP or overseas callers whose caller ID was lost in transit) to input additional digits to complete the call. Automatic diallers aren't able to do that. Problem solved.Brian Flint,Nottingham&middot; One simple facility would help to control unwanted calls: being able to make the phone respond automatically to unidentified callers with a suitable "get lost" message. Does any company offer this?Tony Montgomery-Smith,Huntingdon&middot; What cost there is, Prescott says, "will be pushed onto those stupid enough to call the premium rate numbers". I am stupid enough to call premium numbers but often I have no choice.The premium numbers I call begin 0845, 0870 and so on. They are premium numbers for me because my mobile free minutes exclude them. I am not too stupid, as I have acquired geographic numbers for my own banks - except Tesco, and I have really tried.But really, life is too short to do this for every 0845 or 0870 number.ChrisData destructionForget high technology - doesn't bashing disks with a hammer make them unreadable? (Dead disks yield live information, August 10)Bob Pedley,Slough&middot; I can destroy all the data on my own hard disk. But it's not mine that I'm that worried about.There are thousands of disks containing sensitive personal information over which I can have no control. What we all need to be concerned that the data is properly destroyed on disks used by the government, banks, credit reference agencies, my ISP and even newspapers I've written to!How can I, or anybody else, know whether they are doing things properly?Stuart Wells,NottinghamThumbs upThere's a simple way to render your personal information worthless. Use the credit reference databases Notice of Correction facility as a means of conveying an instruction to ALL who access your credit files (lenders, card issuers, banks, insurance companies, etc).State that any financial product or service which requires your signature you will sign and thumbprint. Anyone wishing to sign application forms in your name, no matter if they are using stolen or forged documentation will need to submit their print.This is a proven deterrent and helps identify crooks by providing forensic evidence which can lead to arrest. I've signed the signature strip on my cards with my thumbprint signature.This is easier to check than a written signature, and cannot be forged, forgotten, lost or compromised.Jamie Jamieson,ScarboroughSeewww.thumbsupsecurity.comMobile dangersThe recent wave of concern about children's safety online continues (Newsbytes, August 10). But it is interesting to note that the same level of concern does not seem to be extended to children using mobile phones.Parents know even less about what their children are doing with their phones than on a PC at home. Internet-enabled mobile phones expose children to exactly the same risks, and with video and picture messaging and Bluetooth it is very easy for children to be sent unsolicited, inappropriate material.In the US, technology is available that allows parents to supervise their children's mobile phone use and prevent them from accessing unsuitable internet content. So why are these tools not available in the UK?Mobile phone operators need to think about their obligations around child safety, and act responsibly to give parents the ability to protect their children.Per Jacobsen,London
If it is not permitted to take a notebook computer on board a plane, is there any way to safeguard it in the baggage hold? Bruce ParryIf you want to protect a business computer you can buy a special ruggedised case such as the OtterBox (otterbox.com/products/pc_cases/laptop_case/). These are waterproof and you can certainly stand on one, or perhaps run a small car over one. They are also expensive and in short supply. But I think your best bet is to wrap your notebook PC in bubble wrap, and put in the middle of your clothes inside a hard suitcase. (My local luggage shop has just enjoyed a sudden boom in sales of those.)It would also be a good idea to assume that your notebook will not survive the trip. For me, this means putting essential files on a couple of CompactFlash cards that sit unnoticed in my wallet. (They also fit my camera and my PocketPC.) Other people have tried putting files on a USB thumb drive and wearing it as a pendant. I also stash copies of critical data files online. For extra extra backup, you can also set up your home PC so that you can access it remotely. These remain good ideas even when your laptop is allowed back in the cabin.
When I turned on my lovely new MacBook, I was asked during set-up which of five available wireless connections I'd like to join. Given that I don't know whose they are (some have meaningless names like DG834G, others are obviously named after householders), what is the correct etiquette for using the facilities? I'd freely share a connection if I had one, but I don't want to trample on anyone else's garden. Tom AnonUsing someone else's connection is wrong, but you could certainly approach neighbours whose networks have recognisable names and ask permission. You could even offer to pay. Of course, some people choose network names that indicate they are happy to share. However, it still wouldn't be polite to hog the bandwidth of someone's "freenet" by, for example, file-sharing large movies.If you are on the road and stuck for a connection, very few people would object if you used their Wi-Fi to fire off a handful of emails -- as long as they are not spam. Using next door's connection full time is a different matter.Backchat: Pat Turner points toa BBC News articleabout a London man fined £500 for doing this - he was using a laptop while sitting in his car.Huw Lyan Thomas says: "a bigger issue with file-sharing movies over a neighbour's unsecured Wi-Fi connection is that you're exposing them to a copyright lawsuit -- their IP address will be the one logged against the illicit activity. And file-sharing is not even the most serious crime that could be committed."
When firing up my PC, I get a runtime error: "Invalid backweb application id 768119." I can't seem to locate the source and wondered if it is doing anything serious. MaureenBackWeb software is supplied by BackWeb Technologies. Many companies use it to download updates to various programs, and BackWeb's customer list includes Hewlett-Packard (and Compaq), Logitech and Kodak. However, some people consider it spyware or adware. You are most likely getting the error message because you have a PC or application that uses BackWeb but an anti-spyware program has removed some or all of it. It is much better to uninstall BackWeb correctly, using the Control Panel's Add/Remove Programs utility.To stop the error message, you may also need to untick it in the System Configuration Utility. To do this, go to Start, select Run, type msconfig in the box and click OK. It should be under the Startup tab. You can often find out who installed BackWeb by searching your hard drive. For example, the files could be under C:\Program Files\Compaq Connections\.
One man (and his brother) is about to singlehandedly rescue the games industry from the lack of creativity in the gaming industry. Well, after he gets back from holiday, that is.Gavan Wollery has announced his project, an ambitious virtual world called Genesis. From hissite:Take all of the ideas you have about what a video game is or could be. Now throw them out, because Genesis does not comfortably fit into any given genre. Genesis, as the name implies, is about creation. Imagine a storyline that shifts dynamically with your actions. Imagine having the power to create or destroy any aspect of your environment. Imagine being part of a world where your actions have a profound impact. Imagine.Genesis is the game that creates itself. The actions of the users reshape living conditions, political structures, economies, ecosystems, and all other aspects of the world. Storylines emerge naturally, the same way that they do in real life. Content in Genesis is supplied by the users, not a development team, so every user's experience is unique. In short, Genesis is the first truly dynamic massively-multiplayer online game.While I appreciate the excitement many of you may be experiencing at the minute, before you jump clear out of your skins, be warned that the game does reside within the "orcs" and "gnomes" genre. Still, I'm intrigued by the possibility of permanent virtual death. How will that change people's play habits?Whether this intriguing project sees legs or not, the process as recordedhereis extrordinary, and a testament to how much planning designers go through to make the games we play.
Today's printed edition of the Guardian's Technology section is also onlinehere. It opens with....A musical tail of hits and missesHas downloading revolutionised the sale of niche music or is it perpetuating mainstream conformity? Adam Webb investigates.Access denied to the laws that govern usImagine having to pay to know if you are breaking a law. Soon you will, if the government has its way, says Heather Brooke.A cornish pasty, a coffee and free Wi-Fi pleaseExpanding Wi-Fi access represents a revolution in communications. Kieren McCarthy reports.The play's the thing, plus lots of explosionsInterview: Tim Schafer is renowned for his creative game design. He talks about where he gets his ideas.When will you vote in your pyjamas?The government is reviving plans to allow Britons to vote in elections via the internet, says Michael Cross.Solar energy is hot stuffAdam Vaughan on the growing popularity of solar powerNewly asked questionsCan I become an Xbox programmer?Has the time finally come to stop using Google?ColumnsBeeb sounds out a portable DAB deviceBobbie Johnson: My eyebrows were raised in surprise last week when I saw a report that fleetingly mentioned some new ideas being bandied around the BBC.Happy birthday to the PC, a tool that changed the worldJack Schofield: The IBM Personal Computer was launched 25 years ago last Saturday, and it changed the world.Consoles leave no space for coffee tablesKeith Stuart: Last week the video game news site Games Radar published the first photographs of a PS3 and Xbox 360 standing side by side.TechnobileMat Smith: Battery manufacturers must be rubbing their hands with the advent of wireless peripherals.RegularsLetters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants to tech@guardian.co.uk, and please include your address and telephone number.Ask JackPlane computing | Wi-Fi netiquette | Backweb | BackchatGadgetsOregon SmartGlobe|HP iPaq hw6915|Archos AV 700TVNewsbytesBattery recall | Get Live | Net growth | Just being social | X-Men to hit MySpace | Break the sound barrier | Test your eyes
Three guesses: what's topping the world's second biggest music download store. James Morrison? The Kooks? Snow Patrol? Razorlight? Paolo Nutini? Wrong! That'll be the current top five artist albums on the UK's iTunes Music Store. Compare that with the Top 10 albums on eMusic, the independent online store with an 11% share of the US download music market. There you'll find a somewhat more diverse selection, including Johnny Cash, Frankie Goes To Hollywood, Quantic, The Decemberists and the Gin Blossoms. OK, one is British and the other is American, but the differences seem clear enough: the former sounds like a playlist for the most dreary drive time radio show imaginable (you can almost smell the Richard Bacon/Jamie Theakston voice over) while the latter suggests online music buyers, faced with millions of tracks, are making more eclectic choices than in years gone by.That, of course, is the overriding message of The Long Tail. Chris Anderson's much-publicised book aims to show how the internet is turning the 80/20 rule of retailing on its head. (Retailers traditionally make 80% of their sales - and usually 100% of their profits - from the top-selling 20% of products.) Anderson argues convincingly that "endless choice is creating unlimited demand" and, with a statistician's eye, examines how the likes of Amazon and iTunes, with their virtually unlimited shelf space, have transformed the world of books and music.In the future, he suggests, cumulative drip-drip sales of niche products may become as important as the "hits". This is already happening in many online businesses, where collective fringe sales account for a healthy volume of business. But is this really the case? At a recent debate hosted by digital music consultancy firm MusicAlly, eMusic's chief executive David Pakman came up with a startling claim. He said that 10% of product on iTunes accounts for 90% of the store's total sales. Rather than smashing the 80/20 rule, the world's most popular download store appeared to be exacerbating it.iTunes aims for mainstreamPakman was not doubting that the Long Tail exists - he says it does - but suggesting iTunes is a bad example of it. iTunes does sell a reasonable volume of niche music, but as a mainstream music retailer, it markets to and mostly attracts mainstream music fans. The majority of these are drawn to the hits in the head, not the non-hits in the tail. They click, they buy, and then they leave. "For the most part, stores that are stocked with music from the majors tend to focus on mainstream music," he says. "It doesn't mean they don't carry a more diverse selection, but when you have Beyonce and the Pussycat Dolls you put them on the home page, and you market and promote that and use it on your advertising. By definition, that tends to attract youth and mainstream music buyers. They come to your site looking for the hits."Scan the home pages of the UK's mainstream digital retailers and you'd have to agree. "Homogeneous" would probably be the most appropriate word: most have exactly the same content as iTunes, with tracks priced at around 79p and protected with DRM (digital rights management) - although Windows Media, not Apple's FairPlay. Tellingly, Woolworths' current top five digital albums are by James Morrison, Snow Patrol, Razorlight, The Kooks and Lily Allen. Little wonder, says Greg Eden, general manager of AIM Digital, the trade organisation for the UK's independent music sector, that iTunes' mainstream Windows Media-based competitors cannot break their nemesis's stranglehold. They offer few, if any, alternatives in terms of music and their tracks can not be played on an iPod.There can be only oneAlso, unlike the high street, online distribution means one supplier can dominate the mass market. "What you see on the internet is very much the 'Highlander Theory'," says Eden. "'There can be only one'. There's only one search engine, there's only one big book retailer, one big online auction house, and so on. That's not necessarily a bad thing, as long as it's able to supply a super hot service at a reasonable price."So while there are many big name digital retailers offering more than a million tracks, few are offering incentives for their customers to discover music beyond the mainstream. This is where eMusic differs, says Pakman, and why it offers a better example of Anderson'sthesis. Its 1.5 million tracks include no major label music (although it does sell the Pixies, Arcade Fire, Funkadelic and Ray Charles) and so it attracts non-mainstream music fans.Its business model also encourages these fans to experiment. For &pound;8.99, subscribers can download 40 MP3 files a month. For &pound;14.99, they get 90. Having already prepaid for their music, and with tracks costing less than 23p, users are far more likely to take a punt on a recommendation than those paying a one-off 79p/99c.Consequently, 70% of eMusic's catalogue sells more than once every quarter. It sells 5m tracks a month, from a subscriber base of only 200,000 users. "Our observation is that the Long Tail does exist," says Pakman, "but it doesn't happen naturally. You have to focus on selling it, almost at the expense of promoting the popular stuff."There are people out there who want to discover music, they want to buy something beyond the mainstream, they aren't 14 years old, but they probably do have an iPod. That's who we like to sell to."Elsewhere, where mainstream suppliers can't meet demand or are too inflexible in format, genre-specialist independent stores are trying to define their own micro-markets. Download stores exist for everything from punk (download punk.com) and classical (classical.com) to world music (calabashmusic.com). Dance and electronic genres have proved particularly successful, with the likes of Bleep, Beatport and DJ Download offering high quality MP3s, WAV or even high quality Flac (Free Lossless Audio Codec) files to dedicated fans. (A DJ playing a download over a club's sound system needs better sound quality than iTunes' 128kbps.) The aim of such stores, says Bleep's Tom Panton, is not to offer a Long Tail for the sake of it, but to specialise. "If we could have a million tracks, that we have carefully selected and were on there for a reason, then brilliant. We've taken music by choice, and there's an editorial line being followed. The aim is to extend that editorial line as the company grows."Bleep recently sold its millionth track. That's hardly comparable with the 200m downloads sold by iTunes in Europe, but there are economies of scale. Unlike the Top 40, says Panton, his genre is not dominated by one mainstream player: "If you look at market share in experimental electronic music, there's a three-way split between iTunes, Bleep and Beatport. If you go to chart pop, then it's probably about 85% iTunes."As with the Tescofication of the British high street - where one huge superstore hits its mainstream competitors, but leads indirectly to the popularity of specialist farmers markets - these collective short tails look increasingly important. So while Chris Anderson is correct in recognising the importance of non-hit entertainment, where we as customers end up buying those niche products might be another matter.The Long Tail by Chris Anderson is published by Hyperion at &pound;17.99. To order a copy for &pound;16.99, with free UK p&amp;p, go toguardian.co.uk/bookshopor call 0870 836 0875&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The government is reviving plans to allow Britons to vote in elections via the internet, despite fears about e-voting's vulnerability to coercion and sabotage. The Department for Constitutional Affairs has revealed that it is looking for contractors to provide systems to be used in new trials of e-voting in local polls.At a conference in Budapest sponsored by the British government last month, John Sills, the department's head of electoral policy, said: "The UK government is still committed to e-voting even though in recent years it has been somewhat put on hold. We will see more of it."English councils carried out some of the world's largest trials of remote internet voting, along with other new technologies and methods, in local elections in 2003. Since then, progress has stalled, partly because of the electoral timetable and partly because of worries about the possibility of coercion or impersonation when people vote at home. These were highlighted last year by the conviction of six councillors for rigging a local postal ballot in Birmingham in 2004. Sills said that new measures to check signatures on postal ballots would prevent such abuses in future, and that the logical next step was remote voting by electronic means.Technology suppliers are to be appointed by the end of this year under a framework contract advertised by the Department for Constitutional Affairs. Further internet voting pilots will take place in 2007 or 2008 and in theory e-voting would be an option in the next general election, due by May 2010.Britain's enthusiasm for e-voting is at odds with that of the US. Americans pioneered internet voting in 2000, when the Arizona Democratic primary became the first binding political election to offer an option to vote on a website. However, plans to use the internet in the 2004 presidential election were abandoned after a group of experts raised concerns about the internet's vulnerability to sabotage.Speaking at the Budapest conference, the man responsible for modernising the US's election machinery said that internet voting would one day come of age. Paul DeGregorio, chair of the US Electoral Assistance Commission, said: "In my view, in 10-15 years from now, the internet will certainly be used very actively in elections throughout the world."However, he said factors other than convenience should be considered. "In remoter parts of the US, elections are a place and a time when you see people come together in the community, dressed in their red, white and blue. When you do it by internet you take out the personal contact."In Britain, ministers hope that e-voting will reverse the trend of falling turnouts in elections by making voting more convenient and "relevant", especially for young voters. Some speakers, however, were sceptical about the benefits of making voting too easy. One of Britain's foremost experts in e-voting, Lawrence Pratchett, professor of local democracy at De Montfort University, said "I don't want young people voting, if the only reason they are doing it because it is online."Sills disagreed. "Any route into the system is important. Once you're in there, you might stay. I'm very much in favour of you voting in your pyjamas."Michael Cross spoke at the Budapest conference as a guest of the International Centre of Excellence in Local e-Democracy&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
