I feel a bit left behind still being in Las Vegas while Bobbie has been jetsetting to San Francisco for theStevenoteand Jack has beentaking a cool-headed lookat the iPhone and David Sobottahas been commenting sagelyon it.At the risk of being soooo last week, I've just been to the keynote speech given byLeslie Moonves,chief executive of CBS. Now, CBS is definitely Old Media, right? TV - that static box in the sitting room that churns out stuff at you.That's not how Moonves sees it. He wheeled on a strong supporting cast to set out how CBS is not just embracing but is positively snuggling up to the internet and mobile communications devices as a way of building audiences. Someone has been smart enough to see that mobile communications, broadband and general technological cleverness and an explosion of bright ideas mean that people simply aren't watching telly in the way that they used to. So instead of squawking miserably about how all this means CBS and the other big traditional networks are losing viewers - and therefore revenue - they've decided to make the new ways of consuming media work for them.It was slick, as you'd expect from a big media corporation. Lots of groovy video and very polished use of autocue and personalities. Two polished radio DJs, Opie &amp; Anthony, came on to talk about how theirwebsitehas built a somewhat incestuous relationship with their listeners. They've got webcams in their studio so listeners can see the show go out live. Listeners can see what's happening "in the commercial breaks and the bathroom breaks" (that's possibly TMI, but there you go). And they've got screens up in their studio full of images of listeners doing their stuff on webcam as they get ready for work listening to the show.Lesbians were present and correct: Ilene Chaiken and Jennifer Beals, creators ofThe L-Word, a series about the lives and loves of gay and bisexual women, were there to talk about the official social networking siteourchart.comthat has been built for fans of all sexual orientations of the programme to interact with each other and with the show. Sports fans, CSI nuts and pretty much anyone CBS wants to get watching its TV programmes are now catered for in some way via the web and mobile technology.The aim, of course, is to make sure that loyal viewers stay loyal. By engaging with them online - CSI creator Anthony E Zuiker was there to talk about how the half-decent forensic crime investigation series has been spun off into computer games and competitions via mobile phone and even how Marcia from Scottsdale, Arizona, made a suggestion on a fansite that was taken on board by the writers - viewers feel a sense of ownership about a TV programme and are likely to keep coming back to watch it on the old-fashioned box.Sometimes it tried just too hard. Philip Rosedale of Linden Labs, creator ofSecond Lifewas there to show a video of how a couple of Second Lifers had mashed up some Star Trek stuff, courtesy of CBS, in the virtual world. But it shows that CBS is thinking about how to build and retain audiences.It's traditional to announce something - anything - at a keynote, and as Moonves didn't have anything of his own to trumpet, he invited Blake Krikorian ofSling Mediaon to show off a tweak to the brilliant Slingbox which allows users to clip a piece of video (CBS video, obviously), upload it to a YouTube-like site and email a buddy to tell them it's there. The buddy can then post a comment and send it on to his or her buddies. Quite neat.But it's not YouTube. So to cover all the bases, Chad Hurley of YouTube was also there. CBS hasa channelon the video-sharing site which generates a satisfying buzz about CBS programming.It's all about making new media work for the old corporates. Will it save them from extinction? What do you think?
Major Apple products are often launched with a big but very tame story in one of the American news magazines, so it's no surprise to see Time coming up withApple's New Calling: The iPhone, based on a preview. This does contain an interesting paragraph, as follows:The iPhone developed the way a lot of cool things do: with a false start. A few years ago Jobs noticed how many development dollars were being spent -- particularly in the greater Seattle metropolitan area -- on what are called tablet PCs: flat, portable computers that work with a touchscreen instead of a mouse-and-keyboard. Jobs, being Jobs, figured he could do better, so he had Apple engineers noodle around with a tablet PC. When they showed him the touchscreen they came up with, he got excited. So excited he forgot all about tablet computers.Unfortunately, Time doesn't seem to have a geek cell in its body, so it answers none of the questions I immediately started raising (Now what's inside an iPhone?) during the Stevenote: what's the chip? (How hot does it get?) How much ROM/RAM? Does it support the full OS X programming interface? And so on....You can certainly get some small sleek notebook computers today, and I'm a big fan (sic). But they do get hot. How has Apple solved this problem? Or is the iPhone a hot product in more than one sense? ;-)
A gleaming white sun threatens to dawn from behind the Apple logo on the company's website. The first 30 years, it says, were just the beginning. Apple's PR machine is at full throttle and, even by its standards, speculation about the company's latest product is rampant.The annual Macworld conference is Apple's preferred platform for announcing its new products. With something approaching religious fervour Steve Jobs, Apple's CEO, reveals the latest software and hardware and analysts and consumers size them up.Apple and its followers believe the company's strength is in thinking differently. Nothing illustrates this more than the iPod, with which Apple reinvented portable music and brought digital music above ground.Pre-iPod, Apple was considered a beleaguered company. Its share of the personal computing market dropped from 16% in 1986 to 10.7% in 1990, and in the second quarter of 1997 it posted losses of $708m (&pound;365m today).And then came the iPod. Since its launch in October 2001, Apple's stock has risen from $7.44 in 2001 to $85 this year. Apple sold 39.4m iPods in the year ending September 2006, making $7.68bn. In the UK, iPod ownership outstrips other MP3 players by two to one and 17% of all web users own one.But though iPod revenue has continued to increase, overall growth is slowing and investors are demanding a new focus. Ian Fogg, senior analyst at Jupiter Research, said that as well as mobile communications, Apple is pushing forward in areas such as home entertainment. It is developing the iTV box, which will enable users to stream video from iTunes to their TV.Mr Fogg says Apple won't be too worried by Microsoft's Zune, though both the Zune and the XBox console are consumer-focused brands, like Apple.He believes Apple has its fingers in enough pies to continue growth. "Apple is very aware it is the market leader and that it needs to innovate. It has ... [stayed] ahead with a steady stream of improvements ..." he said.
Frustrated by your lack of understanding about nano technologies? Made it a new year resolution to learn more about about the field of microelectrics? Serious games developerPlayGenhas just released a beta of its educational title,NanoMission, described enticingly as, "the world's first scientifically accurate interactive 3D learning game based on understanding nano-sciences and nanotechnology". Well, it's catchy.The game has been developed in partnership with consultantCientificaand is a heart-warming attempt to get 13-18 year olds interested in real nano science rather than the grey-goo nonsense peddled in airport fiction.What do you think? Would you have paid more attention in physics if every principle, theory and equation was illustrated by a 3D videogame? I might have made more of an effort getting to grips with mechanical advantage (load divided by effort) if I could have shot at it.ViaSerious Games Source
David Sobotta, the ex-Apple employee who wrote last week's section front page article, "What Steve Jobs told me on the iPhone", has sent us his comments on today's announcements:"The biggest transition for Apple has not been the move to Intel processors, but the movement from a computer company to a high end consumer gadget company. TheiPhoneis without a doubt the most elegant of gadgets, but I get the feeling the reflection you see in the shiny surface might well be the high water mark for Apple. Time will tell if the iPhone will live up to euphoria that seems to have gripped the Apple world today."The most overdue announcement was taking 'Computers' out of Apple's name. There is some sadness from seeing that actually happen. At one time Apple produced the computer for the rest of us. That seems to be flipped on its head these days even as Apple's market share grows. My guess is that in spite of the iPhone and the other i-products, history will still look on Bill Gates more favorably than Steve Jobs. Then again, "One Laptop Per Child" might surpass them both."
Apple is keeping the iPhone itself under wraps from the media and the public here, with just one model on the show floor that's inside a glass case --- and even has a guard standing next to it (he doesn't look very happy, if you wondered).So how much is "magic" and how much ismagic? We'll have to wait until the summer to find out - and even longer in Europe.It also keeps the little blighter in a dust-free, smudge-free, finger-free place. I want to see it in use... after all, most people will remember how the nano scratched up, and if you're using a touchscreen it's even more important to keep it clean and clear. The iPhone looks like an absolutely stonking PDA/phone hybrid - but without a hands-on demo it's difficult to tell how far it might be able to go.
Just wanted to share a couple of amusing moments during the unveiling of the iPhone.1) When Jobs said "The second product we're launching today is a revolutionary mobile phone", the guy in front of me leapt up and punched the air in ecstatic glee. I can only imagine he has now collapsed on the floor in an orgasmic sludge, while the rest of us wonder when we'll actually get to see it in Europe.2) When discussing the input style, Jobs said "We're going to use a stylus?", to which a handful of excitables - possibly from the National Stylus Association of America - whooped away. Didn't they look silly when he followed his question up with an answer: "No: Nobody wants a stylus"?3) Jonathan Ive's deadpan response when Jobs called him to show how it worked and what he thought: "not too shabby".4) The number of times that the word "boom" appeared. He's obviously been watching that video meme of his boom moments too much.
Steve Jobs took the stage and told the audience that "this is a day I've been looking forward to for two and a half years"."Every once in a while a revolutionary product comes along that changes everything ... one is very fortunate if you get to work on just one of these in your career. Apple's been very fortunate because it's been able to introduce a few of these - in 1984 the Macintosh changed the whole computer industry. In 2001 we introduced the first iPod, and it didn't just change the way we listen to music it changed the entire music industry."The iPhone, he says, is going to do the same again. And it certainly seems impressive; the built in Wi-Fi, touchscreen, input technology, OS X build and makes it quite remarkable. And watching Jobs demonstrate some of the - such as "pinching" images to make them smaller - it seems like an incredible achievement.Hey, it's even got a proximity sensor that turns off the screen when you put the phone to your head. That should help with battery life.Unfortunately I've had to dive out of the just before the end of the keynote (I know, I know) - but now it's time to go and have a look at what else they're saying.
We don't know how - and we'll be sure that either Linksys/Cisco's lawyers are leaping from their seats, or the trademark deal has already been done - but Apple is calling its new mobile phone (just announced at Macworld in San Francisco) the "iPhone".It runs OSX (so, noa"stripped-down version") and uses a touch interface in which the buttons change according to the function that the phone is performing. Jobs calls teh technology "Multi-Touch", and says "we have patented it."It will also be an iPod, and a phone, and an "internet communicator" (the latter surely via VoIP?).It has gesture control, plays videos, a 2-megapixel camera, and we think there will be alotof people who will be travelling over to the US just to buy one if it's not on sale in the UK. We may have to requisition our team out there to get us a few dozen.And of course it now has aWikipedia page(which when we looked read "it is a product from Apple Computer JAMIEEEEE" but quickly changed to something more sober).And we do still remember the time from a few years ago when a German reporter asked Steve Jobs "what is the iPhone?""The WHAAATTTT?? What is that?" replied Jobs.Ah well, give it all time.Prices: The 4GB model will cost $499, shipping in June. The 8GB machine will be $599. The network will be Cingular, as expected. Europe should get phones in Q4, and Asia next year.Jack adds:According toGigaOM, Cisco make a statement at CES: "Given Apple's numerous requests for permission to use Cisco's trademark over the past several years and our extensive discussions with them recently, it is our belief that with its announcement today, Apple intends to agree to the final document and public statement that was distributed to them last night and that addressed a few remaining items. We expect to receive a signed document today."
The iPhone raises lots of interesting questions, including the price.It has a big touch screen like those Compaq iPaq thingies your grandad used to use, only it doesn't use a stylus: you use your fingers. What's new is that the screen is multi-touch sensitive.But the big surprise is that the operating systems is OS X!It's far from being the first handheld running Unix, of course, but it's pretty remarkable to have all the Mac stuff perched on top. Given the power and hard disk needs of the beast, it's amazing to have it stuffed into something much much smaller than a Mac Mini.It's also hard to imagine doing this on an Intel or PowerPC chip -- even a slow one. Has Apple ported OS X to the ARM chip? (The ARM was used in the Apple Newton and Apple was one of ARM's founding shareholders when it was spun out of Acorn.) If not, have you got a better suggestion? (Pocket PCs like iPaqs and Dell Axims, and Windows Mobile phones, don't run full Windows NT/XP, they run the Windows CE version -- on ARM chips.)Using OS X -- or a substantial subset -- solves lots of problems converting software such as iTunes and means that you really do get pretty much the full Internet on your phone.On first glance, the iPhone is either one of the world's most amazing hoaxes or a really impressive technical achievement. If you'd asked me this morning, I'd have suggested it couldn't be done yet.Gratuitous aside: Hm, how many people now have a phone number for Jony Ive in their Nokias?Parting shot: Apple Computer is dead: the company will now be called Apple Inc. So there's at least one respect in which Apple is following Dell ;-)Charles Arthur adds:we've got the press release for the iPhone, but there's no mention of how much memory (flash or RAM) it has, nor what processor it uses. Remember Bruce Tognazzini's warning, which is something like "any sufficiently well-planned demo is indistinguishable from magic".
Phillips have launched their amBX gaming peripheral range at the CES show. The mix of lighting, fans and speaker will launch later this year costing between $2-400. At those prices you can see where Philips are pitching this product - gamers with deep pockets - but the price is only one barrier. Gamers have always wanted faster graphics, better sound and quieter PC's, but fans and flashing lights? No, me neither. Or until recently anyway. I had a go on a fully amBXed PC while playing Broken Sword and, amazingly, it did actually add something. Particularly effective were the fans. Yes, seriously. Having a fan blow in your face as the in-game character walks out into a storm - complete with white light effects - or flies a plane, really does make you feel more involved. You'll have to trust me on this.Of course, whether it's worth getting the amBX kit is another question. All PC games can use the system - although specific amBX version will obviously work better - and the programming language is supposedly easy for developers to use, though Phillips would say that. But the launch price is too high and the concept as a whole is easy to mock. Which is a shame as by trying something different I have a sneaky feeling amBX will become a bit of a cult hit.
Nokia upgraded the N770 Internet Tablet (with Wi-Fi, running Linux) to the N800 and, amusingly, had its CES announcement upstaged by people who had already bought the machine from US retailers. BloggerJohn Tokashled the way. Nokia USA also has aMeet The Tabletpage.The N800 isn't a phone but it does have a Skype "Internet calling experience". This could appeal to people whose current living experience includes a home Wi-Fi networking experience.I might also be interested in Nokia's deal to supportthe Vox blogging servicefrom Ben &amp; Mena's Six Apart. Unfortunately my Nokia -- which has Lifeblog -- isn't supported. Bah!Otherwise, the star of the Nokia show looks like the N76 "multimedia computer", which does offer a mobile phone experience. To quote thepress release:Nokia today introduced a trimmer fold model to its Nokia Nseries line up, the Nokia N76, a new multimedia computer that brings the complete Nokia Nseries experience to a sleeker body, with little compromise. With the Nokia N76 multimedia computer, technology and design come together to create a revolution in design for a multimedia computer. Using premium materials to enclose world-class Nokia Nseries features and experiences, Nokia has created a very eye-catching device.The Nokia N76 is a perfect blend of style and substance.I shall be watching Paris Hilton to see if she starts using one.....
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Nolan Bushnellis an interactive innovator. His most successful foray,Pong, was the first publicly-available computer game (preceded only by MIT's Space War). He's also responsible for the animatronics antics of US entertainment chainChuck E Cheese, which married robots with pizza to critical andcultural success.Now, as we've writtenbefore, he's trying his dab hand at turning the 21-35 year old female set on to gaming. A challenge indeed.Bushnell'suWinkrestaurant has now officially opened, promising the sleek interiors and food experiences expected by high-class bistros in Los Angeles, plus the added benefit of high tech interaction which aims to break the ice between strangers.FromCnet:Each table at uWink has a pair of touchscreens for ordering food and playing conversation-fueling trivia games covering everything from entertainment to politics and sports. ... But Bushnell wants mingling to be the name of the game at uWink, which hosts "room games" where every table in the restaurant can compete simultaneously. The next level of play, to be introduced soon, is table-to-table competition.Players can stand at so-called party tables and play a fast-paced, six-player game called "Ping"--a tribute to "Pong."Bushnell said one of his goals is to take the social risk out of buying a stranger a drink.The casual game aesthetic should ensure that fanboys don't take over, but will this gimmick bring more women into the gaming fold or is this venture nothing more than a technological update to the telephone-laden tables of Cabaret-era Berlin? Give us the scoop, any Angelenos out there!
The current meme,started by The Wall Street Journal, is that "Cingular Wireless, owned by AT&amp;T Inc., will provide cellphone service to go with the phone" to be announced today.TheAP version of the storysays:Cingular, a unit of AT&amp;T Inc., launched an Apple-related phone and MP3 player, called ROKR, in 2005. But the product was widely considered a flop because it could only hold 100 songs and it required users to buy songs through a computer and download the songs to the phone _ deficiencies a new phone from Apple would likely remedy.Annual iPod revenue growth is approaching zero, and most phone suppliers already have music phones, so the general feeling is that this is an appropriate time to launch a PodPhone. (Cisco already has an iPhone.) All those people who bought an iPod, then probably an iPod with video, will be key targets for a third device....
People going to Steve Jobs's Macworld keynote speech can, once again, play Keynote Bingousing a card printed out from Ars Technica. The site says:Experienced keynote bingo-ers may notice that some squares left unmarked at WWDC are carried over to the new card. This is as it should be, I think. A square that remains plausible enough to be on a bingo card, but is eternally left unmarked, says something important about the interplay between what Mac fans want and what Apple chooses to produce. And yes, there's a square for both "iPhone" and "No iPhone" because, at this point, either one is a story.It's not all about products. For example, one square is for Steve Jobs saying "boom".You can also compare this witha pioneering Stevenote versionfrom our own Charles Arthur from 2005.
Radio 4's morning programmeThe Long Viewhas taken a welcome and critical look at how Parliament and the media have demonised computer games by examining the scandal which surrounded the early English novels. In particular, host Jonathan Freedland explores the cult and controversy that surrounded the 18th century novelPamela.From the blurb:In the 1740's similar concerns were raised when Samuel Richardson's novel 'Pamela' took the public imagination by storm. For the first time readers were entering a hyper-realistic world - one where a servant girl being pursued by her master - and the line between reality and fiction became blurred; the novel's arrival also coincided with the introduction of the sofa to the nation's reading rooms giving birth to the first 'couch potatoes'.Well worth a listen for considered and intelligent debate. Also forBrian Blessed's gender bending antics. The current episode is only available until Tuesday 16 January.
Phew, what a day. With today marking the official opening of CES, I spent a good portion of the morning and afternoon trundling around the halls to have a look at what was out there.And although a lot of was interesting, I found it hard to get excited. Not to sound curmudgeonly, but the 2007 version of CES isn't a show bursting with new ideas. There is plenty of intriguing technology, of course, from innovative mobile phones to immense telescopes and many places in between.But I can't say that there is anything much that hasn't been seen before. And asJack mentionedin his post about Sony's web TV, many things are old ideas that are now finding the right circumstances to reappear.Another thing that struck me was how small some company's presences are. The Samsung stand, which is the biggest here, is large enough to get lost in. But Sony has a relatively tight presence and Microsoft - which dominates proceedings here in many ways - has a compact arrangement which belies the number of things it is pushing through at the moment.Outside of the halls of the Las Vegas Convention Center, this evening I took a tour aroundShowstoppers, a showcase event which orbits CES rather than being a part of it. Inside the plush Wynn hotel, a line up of small companies and innovators put forward their latest wares. Ideas included the double-headed toothbrush and a virtual reality-style headset for watching movies and playing games... more on those later.But first I'm actually heading out of Vegas and up to San Francisco for Macworld and Steve Jobs' latest pronouncements. Here we go...
I've spent the afternoon wandering around CES and it's big. Very big. It's also very male. There is quite a lot of silicone around, but not all of it has been used to make processors. It's a bit disappointing in the middle of the first decade of the 21st century to see that the 1970s approach to marketing - draping artificially enhanced and slightly under-dressed women around products - is still thought to be a good idea by some.Having said that, despite being short and having long hair, I haven't been patronised once, which is a refreshing change. I hung out for a while at the Microsoft gaming stand and chatted enthusiastically with Bill Roper, CEO of Flagship Studios as he showed meHellgate London, one of the most hotly anticipated games of this year. We talked excitedly in fluent geek of RPG classes and archetypes, discussed hardware and enthused about the randomisation of the game, which is due later this year, without him once double-taking at me being female. Then I was shownCrysisby the US PR chief of EA, who will publish this stunning follow-up to Far Cry later this year. Again without batting an eyelid at my gender, we talked physics and framerates and GPUs in noisy and slightly over-excited fluent geekspeak.There are of course women at CES - buyers and journalists and PRs and analysts. But it feels to me as if we're very much in a minority. Despite the very good experience I had with the gaming guys, the whole notion of spreading enhanced babes around a convention is really very over.
The latest from Sony and Microsoft: PS3 officially shipped one million units across North America during its first six weeks on sale. Meanwhile, Xbox 360 reached sales of 10.4 million in 2006, bettering Microsoft's projections. There'smoreon both of these announcements over at Bloomberg.
Two reportsone on 1upanotheron Engadgetclaim that Sony is set to win a Technology and Engineering Emmy Award for its Sixaxis controller. I've tried to check this on theEmmy siteto no avail.This doesn't seem entirely fair considering the masses of plaudits heaped on Nintendo's revolutionary Wiimote. Sixaxis is Dualshock with tilt, analogue triggers and a new button in the middle. It's nice and familiar to use, but the key word there isfamiliar. More later on that.In other Sony news, the company hasrevealed an 8GB Memory Stick Pro Duo- great for all thosedownloadable PSone classicsand,before long, Hollywood movies.
A couple of titbits on everyone-except-Greg's favourite third-person shooter. I forgot to say in my last post that Robbie Bach mentioned sales figures for the game so far: 2.7 million copies in eight weeks. Not bad for a formulaic sci-fi blaster.Also, the anticipated new content is apparently arriving for free download on January 11. There will be two new multiplayer maps including one taking place around a crashed Raven helicopter. More info and imageshere.
I'm late with this as I've been working on the Official PlayStation Magazine all day and couldn't blog. Anyway, Microsoft has had a busy CES featuring exciting speculation, new hardware and superstar keynotes. The fun started yesterday whenconfirmation of an Xbox 360 updatehit technology site Engadget. The upgraded machine, codenamed Zephyr, is apparently set to offer the re-sized 65nm processor as well as an HDMI port and a 120GB hard drive. Due out later this year, Zephyr has pretty much everything fans have been asking for from a re-thought machine - HDMI, of course, gives the platform full 1080p HD compatibility at last, while the larger HD makes sense given the console's new role as astorage dept for downloaded movies.And that's not all.Today, Microsoft revealed that a new version of itsIPTV technologywould be engineered for Xbox 360 in time for next Christmas. The service delivers broadcast TV across broadband networks and features a digital recording function. Keynote speaker Robbie Bach, Microsoft's head of entertainment, talked about expanding the Xbox 360 market - although surely working on a Guitar Hero or SingStar competitor would have been cheaper and easier?Never mind. You can read more onTechnology Blogand yetSeattle PI. Bill Gates' vision of a converged, connected home with digital entertainment streamed about wirelessly from room to room takes one step closer to realisation whether we understand/want it or not.Finally, the company unveiled lots of Vista stuff that I'm not really interested, as well as one bit I am - there have long been plans to connect Windows and Xbox 360 gamers online, allowing them to compete against each other. Today Microsoft, wasshowing offthe first two titles to support the concept - Microsoft Game Studios' Shadowrun and Mattel's UNO.There was also a bit of news aboutVista's collection of downloadable casual games, including conversions of Bliss Island, Luxor 2 and Geometry Wars: Retro Evolved.
Ed Zander, CEO of beleagured Motorola, whichwarned last week that its results would be pretty gloomytook a bit of a risk appearing on the stage for his keynote speech this morning in Las Vegas on a bike. Jokes about the wheels coming off the share price would I'm sure have been very unwelcome.There was a point to it, though. Although his speech was all about announcing partnerships with content providers such as Warner Music and Yahoo, analysts reckon that the big growth for mobile phone makers such as Motorola will be in the developing world.So as well as bigging up the Motofone, a handset designed for use in hot places, with a high-contrast display, icon-led interface and dust- and humidity-resistant case plus bags of battery life (now, why can't we in the developed world have straightfoward phones that last for days on standby?) he also had some big numbers to discuss.In China there are some 5 million new mobile subscribers every month, and the Chinese are big on texting: they send 1 billion SMSs a month. And there are 500 million cyclists in China. So what he was showing off was not his ability to talk and cycle at the same time (though that was quite impressive) but a mechanical phone charger that draws its energy from a dynamo on the bike's wheel. Nifty.But despite all those cyclists just dying to get their hands on a mobile, Ed and his chums from Yahoo and other divisions of Motorola are dead keen to get users in the developed world - you and me - using our phones (preferably Motorola phones, of course) to access rich digital content. When I say "rich", I mean that both in the sense of multimedia/sound/vision-rich and rich in the way you have to be to afford all these data-heavy downloads.With Yahoo Moto is launching a mobile online service that will know where you are and offer you location-based content. In Vegas that meant showing off how easy it is with just one click to access theweather (cool and sunny, since you ask), information on bars, restaurants, shows, shopping, traffic etc. Email, stock-tracking, keeping up with a football team are all part of the package.Do people actually do that stuff online? I don't with my 3 phone, which must mean that 3 hates me. But people do use their phones for music and Ed was in there announcing another partnership, this time with Warner Music, to deliver packages of music stuff to people using music-enabled handsets. For the purposes of the speech, he showed off the ROKR E6, which has launched in China and will be available in the US soon.This phone runs on Linux and uses Java to deliver the UI, dumping once and for all Apple's iTunes interface. All this of course means that there will be even more speculation about Steve Jobs delivering possibly maybe if you believe all the rumours an iPhone, as wediscussed last week.So what will these content-rich packages be? Er, ringtones and video. Oh well, what is possibly of more interest to potential users is that this phone will - allegedly - sync seamlessly with Windows Media Player and allow you to create playlists of songs bought from any number of online music stores (though not of course from iTunes).It was a slick and well-presented keynote. Other stuff included US-specific details of streaming telly pictures around the home via Motorola hardware and the ability to program your Motorola hard drive digital/cable box via text, which Sky Plus users in the UK can already do. And there was a demo of how Moto's business applications work on mobile handsets, giving the road warrior the ability to deal directly with his office network via his handset. My eyes glazed over at that point - probably because I was caffeine-deprived. And there still wasn't anydamn coffee in the press room afterwards.
The SideShow feature in Windows Vista lets you put an auxiliary display on the outside of a notebook PC, and the implementation inthe Asus W5Fe has excited CNet's Crave column. It even has anAsus W5Fe with SideShow video.The notebook has a 71mm (2.8-inch), 320 x 240-pixel display in the lid, and CNet says: "Conceptually it's like having a PDA strapped to the outside of the laptop."Another idea is to have a wholly separate PDA or DAP (digital audio player) connected via Bluetooth, say. or able to slot into a dock. That's what Dell has done, according to Engadget (photo below).Engadget says: "Nothing official yet, but what you're looking at is a 'production-ready concept design' for a DAP that's supposed to pop into a dock on your laptop or desktop where it would double as a SideShow display. The model we spotted sported 1GB of storage, Bluetooth (no word on A2DP), and touch-sensitive controls."
"Sony Electronics today announced the first of its kind TV feature called "BRAVIA Internet Video Link" that will allow most of its new televisions to access free Internet video content, including high-definition, from providers including AOL, Yahoo! and Grouper, as well as Sony Pictures Entertainment and Sony BMG Music," says aSony press release.The Internet Video Link connects to your broadband system, after which you get an Xross Media Bar interface (off the PlayStation Portable) for navigation. It works with the Bravia "KDL-46S3000, KDL-40S3000, KDL-32S3000 and KDL-26S3000 units - all shipping this spring." No word on when the Internet Video Link will ship, or at what price -- it's still a prototype, so who knows?Asas EE Times points out, the content deals with AOL, Yahoo and Grouper Networks suggest this is essentially a walled garden approach.For nostalgia buffs, Sony was one of the companies that sold a set-top box usingWeb TV, which Microsoft bought in 1997. Here's a review of theSony INT-W100 WebTV Internet Terminal, which put the Web on your TV set a decade ago.That puts the Bravia "first of its kind TV feature" in context, doesn't it?
Disaster. The CES press room has run out of coffee. It's not quite 8am and we're all gathering ahead of Ed Zander of Motorola's keynote speech. It's not pretty and Zander might find himself on the receiving end of some unexpectedly grouchy reporters.
"This is probably Microsoft's biggest CES ever with Windows Vista shipping in a few days and Bill Gates met with bloggers from Engadget, Gizmodo, Kotaku, PodTech.net, and Joystiq for a wide-ranging interview about everything from Bill's speeding tickets to software that'll take full advantage of multi-core processors," says former Microsoft geek blogger Robert Scoble, now of PodTech. The42-minute videois on PodTech's Scoble Show. You can downloadmp4andiPodversions.
The flood of virtual world research has become a torrent with academic institutions finally turned on to some of the interesting social phenomena which occur as a result of real-live human beings interacting in online space (shock horror). To date, however, it's been rather difficult to get professional and scholarly journals interested in publishing such work. Finally, there's an indication that traditional science is taking this area seriously, with coverage of some of the more prominent studies in top flight magazine Nature.But whilethis articlediscusses the opportunities virtual worlds offer social scientists for "manipulating society" for its own ends,/.points to another Nature article which highlights some of the ethical conundrums which emerge when bringing old school ideas (and experiments) to the digital realm./. reports thatStanley Milgram's classiccompliance shock study- in which participants were asked to increase the power of electricity given to a "person" in another room for incorrect responses to the point of suspected serious harm - has been replicated in an immersive virtual environment. From the paper, onPLoS One:Stanley Milgram's 1960s experimental findings that people would administer apparently lethal electric shocks to a stranger at the behest of an authority figure remain critical for understanding obedience. Yet, due to the ethical controversy that his experiments ignited, it is nowadays impossible to carry out direct experimental studies in this area. In the study reported in this paper, we have used a similar paradigm to the one used by Milgram within an immersive virtual environment. Our objective has not been the study of obedience in itself, but of the extent to which participants would respond to such an extreme social situation as if it were real in spite of their knowledge that no real events were taking place.The results, as reported in the paper above, indicate that respondents to the current test felt similar distress as those who took part in the initial (offline) experiments. In other words, it doesn't matter if the environment is virtual or not; what happens online affects the offline person.There are countless papers on this crossover; Julian Dibbell'sA Rape in Cyberspaceis the most readable. What this and other examples of human response to virtual action demonstrate is a need for ethical protection for participants who may be distressed by what happens to them in online research. To date there is no overarching ethics protocol for internet scholars (each study must go through the ethics processes required by the university or research institute which it is allied with, and each country has its own ethics philosophies), although theAssociation of Internet Researchershave developed abroad-scale guidewhich is quickly becoming standard.Virtual worlds in particular pose interesting questions for researchers as they replicate (to an extent) the offline social space (economies, stratifications, hierarchies, community processes) and therefore users/players' experiences online are often extrapolated to non-game social phenomena (for more on this, read up on the topic atTerra Nova). But rather than assuming that a population of an online game or an immersive virtual environment is made up of a bunch of isolated digital guinea pigs, researchers must remember that, as the Milgram replication reminds us, there are people behind the orcs. And they deserve our respect.
Microsoft's Bill Gates failed to announce the rumoured Xbox 360 v2 during hisCES 2007 keynote-- and so did Robbie Bach, head of Microsoft's entertainment division, who took over the stage for the gaming portion of the event. However, Bach did get Albert Penello to give a quick demo of IPTV on the Xbox 360.IPTV (Internet Protocol television) is Microsoft's system for delivering something like cable TV over a telephone line. So far, it has five phone companies adopting it: AT&amp;T (ie SBC), British Telecom, Deutsche Telecom, C-Com in France, and Swisscom. The BT version isBT Vision, which uses a V-box set-top box.However, there were no details in the keynote, beyond the demo, and there is no guarantee that you'll ever be able to use an Xbox 360 in place of a V-box, or whatever.The keynote did make the interesting point that Microsoft will have four different ways to watch HD TV: using an HD DVD add-on to the Xbox 360; playing HD movies on a PC, and optionally streaming them to the TV via an Xbox 360; by downloading HD movies from Xbox Live; and via IPTV.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
Microsoft has had a big hit with SBS (Small Business Server) and,as rumoured, has finally announced WHS (Windows Home Server), which is based on Vista. It's intended to be wireless and will support Windows XP and Vista machines*, Linux PCs and Macs, asuming the kinks get ironed out. Backups are taken automatically, including a PC hard drive image every night.Microsoft chairman Bill Gates gave the idea a plug during his CES Keynote (below), but APC magazine has more details inGates announces "black box" Windows Home Server.Hewlett-Packard is the "lead partner" with its HP MediaSmart Server, said Gates, and there is at leasta spec sheet for the little black box(in PDF format). Note the size: 5.5 x 9.8 x 9.2 inches. It's like a fat book.The HP version comes with two hard drives and has space for four -- you can add two off-the-shelf SATA drives. External drives can be added via USB ports.As APC notes:Reference designs are also being shown off at CES by AMD, Inventec and Quanta. The presence of AMD and the absence of Intel from that list suggests that the company's spat over the marketing of Intel's Viiv platform has still left some raw wounds.* Also Windows 2000 SP4, but there are not many of those in homes.Update: There's a video on Microsoft's On10 site:Windows Home Server will live in your closet, simplify your life, and official information athttp://www.stopdigitalamnesia.com/. Also seeCharlie Kindel's blog, which shows the circular prototype, and Nathan Weinberg's much more detailed post atInside Microsoft.
You'd think that Bill Gates was some kind of rock deity given the whoops and roars that greeted many of his pronouncements made during his keynote speech with which he officially opened CES here in Las Vegas.It's kind of weird that this marks the formal opening of the convention: Bobbie and I feel as though we've been living and breathing it since we arrived last week. Or maybe that's just the jetlag.But all the previews and press conferences were just warm-ups for the main event, and Gates provides the big curtain-raiser for the convention, which attracts some 140,000 people.Gates and his henchmen, including Robbie Bach, head of Microsoft's entertainment division; Justin Hutchinson, group product manager, and Mark Fields, executive vice-president of Ford, unveiled a raft of products which revolved around the buzzword "connectivity".First up was a slick and impressive demo of some of the features of Vista, which finally launches on January 30. It looks very pretty: the interface is smart and it has some neat tricks up its sleeve, including the ability to cobble together good bits from different photographs to make one good image natively. Gasps and cheers greeted a nifty feature in Ultimate, the most expensive version of the new OS, which allows the user to have a moving image as the desktop wallpaper.The new version of Office was shown off, too, with a demo of how easy it is to rescue an earlier version of a document, apply themes to it and then go online and integrate with technologies such as Virtual Earth.This year it's all about getting at your stuff wherever you are, so Bill Gates, who uses the word "neat" a lot, unveiled the Microsoft Home Server, a hardware/software solution developed with HP. This is a box that sits on your network (so far, so NAS) and will provide a back-up and content delivery system across all the devices on a network, from your Xbox 360 to your Zune and all your Vista-running PCs.It's an obvious development and if it's as well-implemented as Gates promised it will be, it's something I think households with a modicum of interest in geeky stuff will be looking at when it comes to market later this year as it should in theory not only back up data from everything on the network, but also deliver content - your MP3s, your pictures, your schoolwork, whatever - anywhere you are via the Windows Live service.Not content, though, with being able to connect you to your stuff outside the home, Microsoft, in conjunction with Ford, wants to connect with you even when you're behind the wheel. Sync is the name for the new system running on the Microsoft Auto platform, and this will, according to Ford bigwig Mark Fields, mean that your phone, your Zune and your iPod (there was a collective sharp intake of breath as he uttered that four-letter word on the stage) are accessible to you while you're driving via voice commands. The system will even, said Fields, read your texts to you and will interpret txtspk, though quite how it will deal with smileys remains to be seen.Other stuff included discussion of gaming and IPTV, the heart of which is Vista and your Xbox 360. Contrary to rumour, Gates didn't announce nitty-gritty hardware changes to the Xbox: this was all about content and delivery and - that buzzword again - connectivity. So we had some quite cool demos of how you'll be able, using a Vista PC, to go to the Xbox Live platform and join in a game with a mate regardless of whether they're playing on the console or on their own Vista PC.On IPTV, there are content providers signed up in the US to deliver programmes; in the UK, BT is on board. It's all a bit vague at the moment (or perhaps I just haven't got my head around it) but it looks as though it was originally dreamed up by a sports nut: on display was SportsLounge, which as far as I could tell delivered tailored sport content plus really important things (if you're a sport fanatic) like stats on your favourite football player to your computer/Xbox 360.On stats, there were a lot of interesting and quite mind-boggling numbers: Microsoft had, by Christmas, shifted 10.4 million Xbox 360s (thereby getting a big headstart on the high-def DVD war with HD DVD); and, said Gates, 273 billion digital images were captured in 2006. If they're like many of my pictures - people blinking, turning their heads just as I fire the shutter and suffering from camera shake and the flash not firing - then I reckon a good 100 billion should be deleted.Jack adds: There is nowa transcript of Bill Gates's speechonline. Also, Bobbie Johnson's report of the keynote is on Guardian Unlimited:Microsoft unveils Sync in-car computer system.
Engadget photo: Sony Vaio VGX-TP1The Sony Vaio VGX-TP1 isn't the world's first circular PC, but it may well be the first to look like a hat box. Engadget only hasbrief detailswith its photo, but more info should appear later.At the moment it looks like a gimmick and it's going to get slagged off something rotten by the Apple fanboys. Is this just more evidence that Sony is sorely in need of a clue? What say you?
Sony's keynote has just started and is beingblogged live at Engadget-- as will other keynote speeches.You can also watch a streamed version of the Bill Gates keynotehere, using Windows Media Player. However, all good children are in bed, in the UK at least, and you'll probably regret it in the morning.Incidentally, the guys at Engadget have beenburning up the track, making posts every 7 to 10 minutes. So far today, they've posted at least 50 items. How many things are they going to post when the show actually opens? ;-)
Autocue is perhaps one of the most useful technologies ever invented. But the Panasonic press conference at CES this afternoon was an object lesson in how not to use it.Super-cheesy bigwigs from Panasonic introduced other, even bigger bigwigs for a series of Q&amp;As in which even the "Well, Jims" were up on the autocue screen for all to see at the back of the chandeliered ballroom.Panasonic, which makes pretty nice plasma tellies, was bigging up its product range for 2007, the apogee of which is a 103" panel. They look impressive, as you'd expect: lovely clean moving pictures, even on the great big panels.Also up on the big plasmas dotted around the room were images of new kit including an ugly-as-sin VoIP phone and a very dinky HD camcorder. Oh, and some very cheesy clips of a big-smiled woman with a microphone doing inserts from the main hall over at the Convention Center. Those, along with a clip of Brett Ratner, director of X-Men: The Last Stand, yelling about how much he loves Blu-ray, the high-def DVD format that Panasonic is backing. "Subtle", chuckled a reporter behind me. Yup, that about sums up the Panasonic experience.
Ford S-MaxFrom &pound;16,995Miles per gallon: 45.6Seats: 7Good for: stashing kidsBad for: crashing boresThe tourist wearing a pink and yellow bobble hat approaches me with a warm smile. 'Hello,' he says in almost perfect English. 'I am from Denmark and we have not seen this model before.' He indicates the gleaming silver vehicle crouching low on the ground behind me. The Dane runs his hand along the steeply sloping front window pillar and almost whispers, 'I really appreciate the shape of this quarterlight. Is this your car?'On one hand, I'm impressed the tourist is so up on his cars, and even more impressed he knows the word for a quarterlight. On the other, I am on a winter's break in south Devon and a man who's happy to turn his back on the vertiginous cliffs and deserted halfmoon beaches of Prawle Point to 'talk motors' sets off a warning bell in my head. Car bores can be tenacious conversationalists.The vehicle the Dane's prepared to waste his beach time for is Ford's new MPV, the S-Max. The S conjures up speed, space, sportiness and sexiness - all attributes the car has in abundance - even though an S-Max sounds more like a children's high-sugar snack bar.The car is aimed to slot between Ford's Focus (the best-selling car in Europe for the past six years) and its Galaxy (its workhorse MPV beloved by big breeders and mini-cab firms). As it is almost the same size as the Galaxy and has seven seats, 26 storage compartments and rear seats that can be reconfigured in 32 different combinations including folding flat into the floor, you may not immediately see the point of the S-Max. But Ford feels it has identified a new category of buyer: 'the virgin MPV owner'. This is the man who has outgrown his sporty hatchback and now needs more room, but who still hankers after a little pleasure behind the wheel. Thus the S-Max is essentially a hot-hatch with seven seats. A concept that obviously sits well with Europe's 58 top motoring journalists - as they've just named it the Car of the Year for 2007.It certainly looks the part. It's streamlined and athletic. It sits lower on the ground than is normal for an MPV, has pronounced wheel arches and gaping air vents. It looks as aggressive as you can, without scaring the children you'll be ferrying about in it.The S-Max's performance lives up to its billing. The 2.5-litre turbo-charged petrol engine will blast you to 100kph in under 8 seconds - your little darlings will be chucking their fromage frais all over themselves. The big engine is thirsty, though. Ford claims it'll do 30 miles to the gallon, but you'd have to drive more conservatively than Norman Tebbitt to achieve anything like that. Far better to go for the slightly smaller diesel. The performance is more sedate, but over 700 miles, fully laden, up and down Devon's green lanes I managed an average of more than 40 miles to the gallon.I look at the Danish car bore's eager face and then over his shoulder at the beckoning cliffs and the little wooden sign marked 'beach'. 'Sorry,' I say with a shrug. 'It's not my car.' And I make my escape.martin.love@observer.co.uk
"A new Ultra Mobile Portable Computer (UMPC) offering a radically different design was debuted today at the Consumer Electronic Show (CES) in Las Vegas, Nevada. The S-XGen from Seamless Internet, a publicly traded company, is the only UMPC of its kind to integrate all of the computing and digital functionality of other UMPCs in a design that offers a near full-size keyboard and an ultra-productive eight-hour battery life," says thepress release.It also claims that "Microsoft Office [is] included" in the price.No doubt a lot of people will follow the company's marketing line, like theSan Francisco Chronicle, butthis is not a UMPCandit is not running Microsoft Office.The S-XGen has a novel form factor but otherwise it harks back to a previous century. It's running Windows CE on an ARM-compatible processor, and Windows CE has already been widely (and unsuccessfully) used on a variety of handhelds, tablets, mini-notebooks and convertibles, including the Compaq Aero 8000, Psion NetBook and theVadem Clio/Sharp TriPad.Windows CE does run Mobile Office, but that's what you may have on your PDA or mobile phone, not the desktop version.Apart from anything else, the S-XGen has a 4 inch screen and costs $1,400, so please spare us the "future of computing" rubbish.An Origami style UMPC, by contrast, runs the full Windows Tablet PC Edition or Vista (and full Microsoft Office) on a 7 inch or smaller screen.
After all the speculation about LG's hybrid Blu-ray/HD-DVD player - which scored absolutely shedloads of coverage before CES even kicked off - it looks like they're going to deliver.CTO HG Lee came up on stage here early this morning to explain exactly what theSuper Multi Blueplayer is all about. Basically there are two lenses inside it; one which can read Blu-ray discs and another which can read HD-DVDs and ordinary DVDs. The player automatically detects which sort of disc you've placed in the machine and then starts playing (it's slightly faster at reading Blu-ray). So far, so good.The crucial matter, price, is somewhat encouraging too - with the machine expected to arrive in early February for $1199. That's in the same ball park as standalone Blu-ray, and LG said they had given themselves a 20% variation from standalone prices for this launch. But expect prices to drop sharply if interest is high enough; costs should theoretically move much faster than the single format market has.No word yet on what UK pricing will be - expensive, no doubt - but usual conversion rates would suggest around 800 to 900 GBP initially.Asked whether the company would be licensing its technology to other manufacturers, Dr Lee said he didn't actually think there was any IP that stood out - but that LG would consider it.One question remained unanswered amid all the technical talk, however: what exactly do the likes of Sony and Tosh think of all this? That's what I'll be trying to find out.
The CES organisers provide the press with a useful overview of the state of the tech industry, but this year's seems to be more about continuing trends than new ones, judging by aBBC News report.It says: "Mr Wargo, director of industry analysis for the Consumer Electronics Association (CEA), said the industry would continue to grow faster than retail on average." Well, the idea that we'd spend less would have been pretty shocking...."They are adopting technologies faster than ever. New technologies we haven't even seen yet are sure to be adopted faster than their previous generations."Globally the industry is being driven by the shift to high definition and digital."Consumers are buying LCDs (flat panel TVs) instead of CRTs (cathode ray tube TVs). They are buying portable MP3 players rather than portable CD players.We've seen the trend to faster adoption with CD, DVD, the internet and mobile phones, so that's not new either. However, the BBC story adds:But one trend that could be about to slow is the shift to digital music players, such as iPods.CEA research predicted that the market for MP3 players in the US would peak in 2007 at 41 million products as people look to replace existing players and as mobile phones with music playback become more successful.OK, so this is not really a new prediction either, but it could play out nicely if Apple finally introduces its long-rumoured PodPhone/"iPhone" to compete with music-playing Walkman phones etc. Also:research carried out by the CEA suggests that almost half of people want to watch their content on a PC on their TVs. "They want to make a bridge between a TV and a PC sitting perhaps in a home office."No doubt Bill Gates will be pleased to hear that, since it was CES 2004 when he announced Windows Media Center extenders to do that, and the technology is built into the Xbox 360 games console. Again, the set-top box that Apple has code-named iTV could give that market a big kick. However, Sling Media's SlingCatcher (see thisReuters Interview) could also make an impact. Co-founder Blake Krikorian says:With SlingCatcher you're able to wirelessly project anything you have on your laptop, any type of media, any Web site, or Web-based video and project it wirelessly at the push of a button onto your television set. I can go to any site, any video content, any formatted content and get it to play on my big screen TV. That's a huge difference between what we're doing and what others are doing.Will CES bring us any really big new things? If so, what?It's possible, but CEA is right in pointing out that consumers are now adopting technologies faster. They are also getting news faster and earlier, especially as the blogosphere now picks up on patent applications, prototypes and all sorts of associated rumours that rarerly if ever used to appear in the mainstream media. Companies can still produce surprises, but it gets harder every year.
In his keynote speech opening this week's Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, Microsoft chairman Bill Gates is expected to announce new features for the Xbox 360 games console. These include a new version with 120GB hard drive and HDMI port, and perhaps IPTV (Internet Protocol television) features.The Engadget blog has publishedThe second Xbox 360 revealed: codename Zephyr, with a picture of the HDMI port, andXbox 360 getting IPTV?Xbox Scenehas published pictures of the new motherboard with HANA chip, and a video that would make more sense if they connected the HDMI port to an HDMI screen, instead of using an HDMI-to-DVI converter.Board revisions are a standard feature of the games console business: firms increase the level of integration and reduce the number of chips in order to convert complex and unprofitable launch systems into cheaper and very profitable mass market systems. The original Xbox, for example, went through at least five revisions, but consumers almost never know unless the supplier uses the component shrinkage to reduce the size of the case as well (see Sony PS2, PSone etc).So, an Xbox 360 board revision is not only an industry standard feature, it's one that may already be late: Microsoft announced that it would move from the original 90nm processor to a 65nm die-shrink from Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturinglast April.It would not be a surprise if Microsoft used the board change to add an HDMI port (if only because the Sony PlayStation 3 has one) and increase the size of the hard drive. A bit of a no-brainer, really....Offering IPTV is another issue. Microsoft has had the technology for years, via its Ultimate TV operation -- and when it folded Ultimate TV, many of the staff joined the Xbox 360 project. (Some of them even designed the processor.) Microsoft has also been marketing IPTV for delivering televsion services, and that's being tried by BT and what was SBC. In fact, two years ago, Lea Ann Champion from SBC gave a stunning demo of IPTV during Gates's CES keynote in 2005 (as I reported at the time).The Xbox 360 runs a version of Windows XP/NT, so it would be dead easy to offer IPTV features. But does anybody really want it?
Gizmodo has postedthe first pictures from the show floor at CES. They were taken on Friday. No, it hasn't opened early. They sneaked in..... Utterly useless from a reporting point of view, perhaps, but amusing as an attempt to one-up the competition.
One of the most exciting areas in software today is the development of free and open source software such as the Linux operating system, Firefox web browser, Thunderbird email program, OpenOffice.org productivity suite, and many thousands more. All these programs are available at no cost, so users can run standard personal computers without using any programs supplied by commercial developers such as Microsoft.With free and open source software, users can get the original source code used to compile the program to run on a computer. This means users can fix any bugs they find, and write any extra features they need. They can also pass the code along to other people, or sell it. With proprietary software, this would be piracy.The free software movement was started in 1984 by Richard Stallman, a prolific programmer from the Artificial Intelligence Lab at MIT, who wanted to create a free operating system and utilities that worked like Unix. Stallman wrote the software tools needed to create his GNU operating system (which stands for "GNU's Not Unix"), and founded the Free Software Foundation (FSF) to look after the development. The small, core part of GNU, known as the kernel, was developed separately by a Finnish student, Linus Torvalds. This has led to the whole operating system being called Linux, though Stallman and many others think GNU/Linux would be a fairer name.Stallman also devised a special copyright system, the GNU Public Licence or GPL, to protect the freedom of free software. This is often known as "copyleft". There is also a version for documentation, which can be used for books and other written works. The copyleft approach could be extended further.The free software movement was split in 1998 when Eric Raymond, from the FSF, and others created a definition of "open source" to replace the "free software" terminology. Their intention was to throw away Stallman's ethical baggage and, instead, promote open source as a powerful and efficient software development methodology.According to Stallman: "Free Software is a social movement. We are fighting for freedom. We are campaigning for social solidarity. Freedom and social solidarity are our goals. Proprietary software is evil because it attacks freedom and social solidarity. When a program is proprietary, that means that the social system of its distribution and use is unethical." Free software and the GPL were intended to destroy the proprietary software industry.The reality of most free and open source development no longer matches the mythology. Rather than having hundreds of contributors, most programs are written by small teams, often one to three people. Also, many of the leading developers on major programs are employed by large commercial companies such as IBM, Sun, Novell and Red Hat. Many open source projects are not particularly innovative, but are based on reproducing functionality that is already available for Unix or Windows, or maintaining and improving programs that were originally developed in a commercial or academic setting. Much of the idealism Stallman fostered has now been lost.Of course, this isn't a problem for the many millions of people who are never going to read or contribute to the code - except maybe to report bugs. They can download and use high quality software, a large proportion of which is available for Windows.Free/open source softwareFirefox: web browser that is more standards-compliant and safer than Internet ExplorerThunderbird: email program to replace Outlook ExpressOpenOffice.org: office suite to rival Microsoft OfficeNvu: program for creating web pagesUbuntu: a version of GNU/Linux for ordinary mortals
Free phone callsWith the much-heralded arrival of Skype and similar systems, anyone with a broadband connection can make free phone calls anywhere in the world. The technology that enables this is known asVoice over Internet Protocol (VoIP). You speak into the computer's microphone or a special headset, and the person replies at their end on their computer.Skype users can also make calls to regular telephone numbers at very low rates, and the system supports video calls if you have a webcam. But call quality depends on the speed and reliability of the internet connection. Free software is available atskype.comor (for other VoIP services)downloads.cnet.co.uk.Wireless or mobile VoIP callsare not yet common - wireless networks don't have the coverage of mobile phone networks. But some mobiles can already hook into Wi-Fi networks and the technology will soon exist to bypass mobile phone companies altogether.Free mobile phonesThere's no such thing as a free mobile - yet. Many companies give you a free phone for signing up, but its value is recouped by higher call costs and contract fees. That could soon change, though. Some firms, includingGoogle, are looking at providing free phones paid for by advertising. Indeed,Xeromobilewas launched in the US last year and promised to deliver free phones to its first million customers, with no contract and reduced call costs - all funded by advertising.Free Wi-Fi locatorDue to be travelling around and want to locate your nearest freeWi-Fi hotspot? Simple: log on to the free servicehotspot-locations.com. At the last count it listed 2,723 hotspots around the United Kingdom - of which 119 were free to use (access permitting).
Vegas is preparing to go doolally for gadgets, games, computers and electronics; the buzz is building and the hype is growing as the 2007 Consumer Electronics Show draws nearer.Around the web, people are gearing up for the torrent of announcements, launches and general madness that accompanies CES every year. TheNew York Timesfocuses on the increasing costs of the event for the myriad of small technology firms which splash out in order to be here, whileGizmodo"snuck in" (it's not that difficult) to take pictures of the stands being put together.And with Apple choosing to go head to head with CES in what promises to be a great week for geeks, I've previewed both events intoday's Guardian.A quick peek at Google News reveals there are already 3,500 stories about CES and Technorati shows 65,000+ posts and counting. Proceedings here really start to kick off later today, with a series of small preview events ahead of the main business. Let's see what happens...
Former Apple evangelist Guy Kawasaki has had a fantastic first year blogging, and he rapidly climbed into the top 50.His round-up sayshe got "2,436,117 page views for an average of approximately 6,200/day".The drawback is: "Total advertising revenue: approximately $3,350 = $1.39 cpm"AsChris (Long Tail) Anderson quickly pointed out: "A best-selling author and genuine tech celebrity writing a thoughtful essay nearly every workday on a top-50 blog for an audience of around 30,000 people/day.And the pay for that is about $280 a month." Don't quit your day job, he said.At which point dozens more people chimed in to point that they were making five times that (or whatever) and it was Guy's fault for using Google AdSense.Aaron at BlogKits did the sums for his post,Google Adsense A Huge Failure For Guy Kawaski's Blog, and reckoned he should be making at least $100 a day instead of $9.17.Result: "Guy is switching to Federated Media, as we suggest for blogs of his size. BlogKits estimates that he'll make anywhere from $50-$100k/year using that system."Isn't it nice when stories have a happy ending....Update: The story has been picked up by CNN inKawasaki: long tail success or failed "meganicher?"
An office worker checks her home-gadget webpage from her work computer. The tasks she set for her home robots in the morning have all been completed: washing and ironing, vacuuming the lounge and mowing the lawn.She orders dinner from the kitchen chefbot - sushi today, using a recipe from a Japanese website - then checks her elderly mother's house. The companionbot has given mum her medicine and helped her out of bed and into a chair.This is the vision of the future offered by Bill Gates who, in the latest issue of Scientific American, argues that the robotics industry is on the cusp of a big expansion. He likens the current state of robotic technology to the situation in the fledgling computer industry when he and his fellow entrepreneur Paul Allen launched Microsoft in the mid-1970s."The level of excitement and expectation reminds me so much of that time when Paul and I looked at the convergence of new technologies and dreamed of the day when a computer would be on every desk and in every home," he writes. "I can envision a future in which robotic devices will become a nearly ubiquitous part of our day-to-day lives."While scientists have been developing robots for decades, he says there has been limited progress because it has proved harder than expected to give the devices the ability to sense their environment and react quickly and accurately."It has proved extremely difficult to give robots the capabilities that humans take for granted. For example, the abilities to orient themselves with respect to the objects in a room, to respond to sounds and interpret speech, and to grasp objects of varying sizes, textures and fragility. Even something as simple as telling the difference between an open door and a window can be devilishly tricky for a robot."There has been progress, however. In 2004 a race for robotic vehicles across 142 miles of rugged terrain in the Mojave Desert proved to be beyond the assembled field. The top performing robot car managed only seven miles before breaking down. But in 2005 the winner completed the course with an average speed of 19mph, followed by four other finishers.Mr Gates thinks the plunging cost of computer memory and components will contribute to advances. But he believes that, like the early computer industry, robot developers need a common set of programming tools to solve problems such as dealing with numerous sources of information simultaneously. He has set up a team to solve these problems.
Conservative MP Boris Johnson is no stranger to controversy. Previous targets have includedLiverpool- "hooked on grief" - andPapua New Guinea. But now he hasattacked a far more important target- computer games, or "electronic opiate" - accusing them of damaging literacy and social skills.It is time to garrotte the Game Boy and paralyse the PlayStation, and it is about time, as a society, that we admitted the catastrophic effect these blasted gizmos are having on the literacy and the prospects of young males.Erm, calm down Boris. Are you seriously suggesting games consoles are the main reason for illiteracy? Really? Nothing to do with education or parenting then? But simplified rant or not I do - gulp - think he talks some sense. Are kids reading enough? Probably not. But blaming all this on games consoles - "drivelling machines" - is plainly ridiculous. Isn't it?
I've just discovered DShield.org, which has a Distributed Intrusion Detection System.Go to the siteand it checks to see if your IP address is in its database. If it is, "it would be a strong indicator that your machine was possibly cracked and is accessing other machines in a manner that their firewalls log as hostile."
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
