Of course, we've know this for ages. Ever since Mark Hamill strode into the digitised set of Origin's sci-fi shooter, Wing Commander III, it was clear that videogames would offer new opportunities to actors who's big screen years were behind them. Today, there's aninteresting feature on CNETlooking into the careers actors are carving out for themselves in the interactive realm:Voice actors are paid according to Screen Actors Guild rules, about $760 for a single four-hour recording session, and top talent can book two or three sessions per day, providing a steadier paycheck than on-screen work.Celebrity talent can rake in even more, with deals often starting at double the scale rate and going up from thereAmong the character actors mentioned in the piece are Keith David, who featured in John Carpenter's, The Thing (now voice acting in Halo) and Michael Ironside, the familiar psycho baddie from movies like Total Recall (now playing Sam Fisher). The article talks about how Reuben Langdon, who does the acting and motion capture for Dante from Devil May Cry, is now regularly signing autographs for the game's fans.In many ways, this is a 21st century equivalent of the Sci-Fi convention circuit, where jaded actors from long cancelled series' traipse around the globe signing pictures for ever-passionate fanatics. In others, it's a more high-profile version of that familiar actors' stand-by: provincial theatre. Except it's still cutting edge, with a worldwide audience.Whatever, it's a win-win situation. Game developers get voices that gamers recognise, often from shows and movies they adored; the actors get well-paid work and a chance to re-connect with their demographic. And for current stars - the pickings are even richer - the article mentions one actor charging $500,000 for an hour's voicing.So which cult actors of yesteryear wouldyoulike to hear voicing favourite videogame characters?
Thenewsthat Dr Kawashima - the man behind the insanely successful DS games - has no time for games, even his own, is a potential embarrassment for Nintendo. Even if it wasn't the main factor you can't argue that the inclusion of a doctor's name on the box helped legitimise the software with the wide audience of non-gamers it attracted. Will Kawashima's revelation harm future sales? Or is the Brain Training brand here for the long term?
Amazon says it isbuying Audible.com, "the leading online provider of premium digital spoken word audio content, specializing in digital audio editions of books, newspapers and magazines, television and radio programs and original programming."It's not a big sum -- around $300 million -- butAudiblefits Amazon's move into digital content with its MP3 and movie download services and Kindle e-book reader.
Amazon has just reportedfourth quarter revenuesthat increased by 42% to $5.67 billion, while profits more than doubled to $207 million. For the full year, revenues grew by 39% to $14.84 billion, and in a conference call (transcript) chief financial officer Thomas J. Szkutak said: "This was our fastest annual growth rate since 2000." Profits grew by 69% to $655 million.Amazon's founder Jeff Bezos said the Kindle e-book was going well:Yeah, Kindle is, in terms of demand, is outpacing our expectations, which is certainly something that we are very grateful for. It's also on the manufacturing side causing us to scramble. We're working very hard to increase the number of units that we can build and supply per week, so that we can get back -- our goal is to get into a situation as quickly as we can where when you order a Kindle, we ship it immediately. That's the standard we want to hold ourselves to and we are working very hard to get there. We are super-excited by the very strong demand.One of the Highlights in the earnings statement picked up by the geek press was about Amazon's online data and storage services:Adoption of Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) and Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3) continues to grow. As an indicator of adoption, bandwidth utilized by these services in fourth quarter 2007 was even greater than bandwidth utilized in the same period by all of Amazon.com's global websites combined.TechCrunchcommented: "That means startups and other companies using Amazon's Web-scale computing infrastructure [are] now bigger collectively than Amazon.com, at least as measured by bandwidth usage. Amazon is one of the largest Websites in the world (No. 7 in the U.S.), so that is a significant milestone."Whether it means much is another issue. The online services have a high volume because some users deliver movie clips, and the income doesn't make any significant difference to Amazon's revenues (and has a negative impact on its profits). Yes, it could be an important part of Amazon's future. However, servers get cheaper every year, and customers can easily switch to cheaper rivals, if there are any. Google could probably kill this business overnight.
Not many software company bosses would have the chutzpah to distribute bright red T-shirts portraying themselves as a latter-day Che Guevara. Not many would take 50 journalists to dinner at a traditional Moscow restaurant and end up doing Cossack dances, or whirling around the ethnically costumed and somewhat embarrassed blonde singer from the balalaika band.But then, not many founders of Russian software houses have built international businesses and become household names. The casually-dressed, bearded and blue-eyed Evgeniy Valentinovich Kasperskiy, 42, has done all that through the success of his antivirus company, Kaspersky Lab. Which is not to suggest he's some kind of megalomaniac; beer in hand, he's being one of the lads.He got into the business by accident - he started collecting viruses as a hobby, in 1989, after his PC at the Ministry of Defence became infected with Cascade. By 1991, he'd written an antivirus program to detect and disinfect them, and he co-founded Kaspersky Lab in 1997. The company was named and run for a decade by his ex-wife Natalya after a dispute with a US partner meant they were unable to use their existing product name, AVP. At times, they employed actors to play the Kaspersky figure, but Eugene is too well known for that to work now.Viral growthThe company that was built on a marriage now has around 800 staff and more than 250 million users worldwide. It's still privately owned, so Kaspersky Lab doesn't have to provide financial results. However, chief financial officer Eugene Buyakin says that 2007 turnover was about $200m (&pound;100m), and if growth continues, it "could be $1bn in five years, maybe less". The aim is to overtake McAfee and become the world's second biggest software security provider.The virus world has changed as dramatically as the company, and Kaspersky says we're now well into Malware III. The first stage - when he started - was dominated by file infectors and other viruses "developed by kids", which often circulated on floppy disks. The second stage, between 2000 and 2004, was the age of internet worms such as I Love You and Melissa, which often arrived as email attachments."Now we live in a world of cybercriminals," says Kaspersky, "the bad guys who develop malware for money - usually they are not ladies! Most infected code is distributed via malicious web pages, and to get people to go there, they use social engineering: spam, phishing emails, blogs, forums, Web 2.0 sites and other social communities."The Trojans and bots that characterise Malware III are much more sophisticated, and instead of drawing attention to themselves, "they hide, so it's very difficult to find them, and very difficult to remove them. They know how to stay in the system," Kaspersky says. It's a much bigger challenge for security companies than removing known viruses, and suppliers need to add proactive technologies that identify malware behaviour in all types of program.It's not always easy. Kaspersky remembers one hidden program that, whenever you connected to the net, secretly interacted with an unknown server - "typical spyware". Well, you'd kill that, wouldn't you? It turned out to be an anti-theft system sold to laptop owners, "so then we said sorry," he grins. That's one of the things that fits into what Kaspersky calls the "grey zone", where companies argue about whether things are legitimate or not. It's a problem because malware writers are striving to develop things that don't look like malware. Who decides? He shrugs. "Sometimes we win and sometimes we lose."The heuristics approach has changed what had been a whack-a-mole market. "In the past, we just followed the bad guys," he says. "They do a trick; we do an anti-trick. Now they're watching us to see if they can find ways round our protection, so it's quite an equal situation now."Kaspersky also credits Microsoft with starting a trend towards "all-in-one solutions" with its OneCare service, "which also has tune-up and backup. The theory was that it wasn't so much designed to protect customers, but with OneCare, they fixed the three main issues of technical support."This increases the costs and the range of skills required of companies that want to provide a similar sort of "managed desktop" service. But Kaspersky says "we aren't afraid of Microsoft" (which became one of the Lab's licensees after it bought Sybari in 2005). Security "is one of the most profitable areas, so I'm not surprised they want to get into it," he adds. "But it's priority number 12 for them. Such a big company can't be focused on security, and to do something better than us, they have to focus on it the way we have to focus on it."Broader horizonsKaspersky Lab also has to compete with Symantec and McAfee, who sell a lot of subscriptions by being pre-installed on new PCs. Kaspersky says that route has been closed - "Who are you? A small Russian company. But now we're an international company, it's one of the things we plan to do."And he reckons Kaspersky Lab has advantages in places such as China and Brazil, where the market isn't yet saturated. "For American companies, the American market is always Number One," he says. "For us, it isn't."In the longer term, Kaspersky Lab is thinking about going public, probably through one of the European stock exchanges. This will make its founders rich. "The main reason is not to get money - we have enough - but to help us to get to the key accounts," he says. "You can't do that easily if you're a private company, especially not the big accounts in the US and the UK."However, there are no plans to move the company away from Moscow, where the Lab benefits from a healthy supply of graduates who are, like him, well versed in maths, cryptography and programming. He reckons that most of the people who wanted to leave Russia have already left, and some of those are ready to return. Sorry, there's no chance of him moving the business to Oxford, where Kaspersky Lab UK is based.It could have been different. In the 1990s, Kaspersky thought about taking a job in Aylesbury, working for Dr Alan Solomon, the father of the British anti-virus software industry. However, Natalya couldn't imagine leaving Russia and "considered emigrants to be a kind of traitor". In 1997, Dr Solly sold his S&amp;S International to Network Associates, which turned into McAfee. No doubt a former employee of the Russian defence department will be amused that he could have ended up working for the other side.&#183;Jack Schofield was a guest on Kaspersky Labs' annual International Press Tour&#183;This article was amended on Tuesday February 12 2008 because we incorrectly described Eugene Kaspersky as a former lieutenant in the KGB.
MySpace has won the right to have the MySpace.co.uk domain name despite another firm having registered it six years before the social networking website launched.The ruling, by domain registry Nominet's dispute resolution service, has caused  controversy in the industry because Total Web Solutions of Stockport registered the myspace.co.uk name in 1997, long before the US social networking website launched."This dispute resolution service decision is counter-intuitive at first sight and serves as a warning that domain registrations are not guaranteed and need to be secured by pro-active management as well as a clear understanding of the dynamic nature of the industry," said Jonathan Robinson, the chief operating officer at web services company NetNames.However, the ruling, made by independent expert Antony Gold, found that while myspace.co.uk had initially been used to offer email services and mini-websites to subscribers it had changed its model to exploit MySpace's popularity.TWS started to use the myspace.co.uk address to lead to a "parked" web page with advertisements for social networking websites including MySpace.The arbitrator decided that this was evidence of abusive registration, that TWS was profiting unfairly from the association with MySpace.MySpace.co.uk was awarded to News Corporation-owned MySpace as a result.The two sides disagreed about whether the use of the myspace.co.uk domain name was abusive.Out-Law.com, the website owned by lawyers Pinsent Masons, said that the TWS defence was based on the fact that mysapce.co.uk had been used for running advertisements before the founding of the social networking website and that it should not be punished for its recent popularity.TWS said that the choice of ads that run on the myspace.co.uk website are determined by algorithms linked to search terms by internet users, which in recent years have been dominated by people looking for MySpace.Gold, the arbitrator, said that it was not relevant that TWS did not select the specific ads. Because it owned the website it was responsible for those ads and income made off the back of MySpace."It is amazing how, after so many years, domain disputes still cause such unpredictable outcomes and associated controversy," said Robinson. "It also highlights how automated web content of any sort can get people into real difficulties."Since its launch, MySpace has used myspace.com as its global home page.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Wall Street is losing patience with internet firm Yahoo which saw its shares plummet to a four-year low yesterday after warning that restructuring to revive its fortunes could take another year.Yahoo's final-quarter profits fell by 24% to $205m (£103m) as web users flocked to rival sites such as Google, Facebook and MySpace.The Silicon Valley company announced that it will cut 1,000 jobs, 7% of its workforce, in its biggest downsizing since the collapse of the dotcom boom at the beginning of the decade.Yahoo's chief executive, Jerry Yang, admitted that the firm faces "headwinds" this year, although he predicted that it would return to higher levels of cashflow in 2009. His remarks dismayed analysts who pointed out that Yahoo's earnings have fallen for eight successive quarters."Basically what Yahoo is saying is 'have more patience with us' when investors have already given them two-and-a- half years to transform their business," said Sandeep Aggarwal, an analyst at Oppenheimer &amp; Co.Anthony Valencia, a media analyst at TCW Group, told the Los Angeles Times: "We're just starting 2008 and already it is becoming a 2009 story. It's beginning to seem like it's always a 'next year' story."Once dominant in internet searches, Yahoo's share in the US market has dwindled to 23% compared with Google's 58%. In Britain, the research firm Comscore still rates Yahoo as the fourth most popular website with 21.2 million monthly visitors - although its numbers have been slipping.Yahoo overhauled its management in June with the departure of long serving chief executive Terry Semel. The new leadership promised a recovery plan within 100 days but critics complain that a coherent strategy is yet to emerge.At the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas this month, Yahoo revealed new mobile phone offerings including technology for improved home pages on handsets and software to help outside developers build new applications. Under-used functions such as an auction site, a podcast offering and a social networking venture have been dropped.Some industry watchers are calling for radical changes - Citigroup analyst Mark Mahaney urged the firm to give up on internet searches by outsourcing the function to Google. He cut the stock from "buy" to "hold" yesterday and said the possibility of a takeover was among the few remaining factors in its favour.Yang, a college dropout who co-founded Yahoo in 1995, urged investors to give the company time."We are not tinkering around the edges," he said. "We are making significant, and what we believe are game-changing, investments in Yahoo's future."
Is the UK ignoring the potential of thermoelectrics? For Professor Mike Rowe OBE, of Cardiff University, thermoelectrics has been a 40-year passion. His pioneering work helped Nasa power space exploration vehicles and he's been on national television showing how a warm bath can run a TV. Now he's determined to see electricity generated from the waste heat in vehicles. And that may soon mean your car's alternator being replaced to save fuel.Getting warmUsing a heat difference to generate electricity - and to use electricity to generate a temperature difference - has been around a long time. A thermoelectric device - a junction of two dissimilar metals or metal alloys - creates a voltage when there's a temperature difference between each side. This was discovered by German physicist Thomas Seebeck in 1821 and, over a decade later, French physicist Jean Peltier found that applying an electric current produced a temperature difference.Now known as the Peltier-Seebeck effect, it's the science behind thermocouples for temperature measurement and even solid-state wine coolers. Pack a series of thermocouples - known as modules - around a heat source, and you can reliably and silently generate small amounts of power.In his PhD in 1964, Rowe perfected a method for generating alloys with an ultra-small "grain" - the microscopic crystals of metal. This greatly enhanced its thermoelectric properties - a discovery taken up by Nasa. But he's since been preoccupied with something more down to earth. "Following the first oil crisis, I identified thermoelectrics as a possible technology for recovering waste heat and then focused my attention on combating global warming," he says.Rowe's research is now underpinning Japanese efforts to exploit thermoelectrics as, in 2002, Japan began a research programme to develop advanced thermoelectric modules. Its goal is a module with a thermal to electrical conversion efficiency of 15% by 2010. The idea is to convert waste heat - from sources such as warm waste water - into electricity and save the country 20m gallons of crude oil and 105,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide. "The Japanese are genuinely pro-active in trying to develop alternative energy," Rowe says. "They've capitalised on the work I did over the last 15 years and have several prototypes operating from waste heat."Rowe reckons that the UK has missed out on thermoelectrics. This country's interest in his work has proved more trivial than serious - like the thermoelectric demonstration he did to show there's enough heat energy in a bath to run a small television. However, he received an OBE for services to technology in 2007."The cost per watt is comparable if not less than solar energy," Rowe says. "It's an area which I think has got future potential and it has been neglected. It has proved very difficult to get funding in the UK."So what could thermoelectrics do here? If taken up, it's likely to revolve around waste heat in cars and trucks. For example, belt-driven alternators generate electricity but use a significant amount of fuel. Might exhaust heat do the job instead?"The main interest in cars is to decrease the petrol consumption. If you can utilise the exhaust heat you could replace the alternator. So straightaway, you will get 5% saving in fuel," Rowe says.Vehicle manufacturers are collaborating with the US Department of Energy to develop thermoelectric generators powered by waste heat from exhaust and cooling systems to provide auxiliary power. General Motors and BMW are pushing ahead with thermoelectric developments to improve fuel economy by as much as 10%.Professor Neil White of the University of Southampton is looking at thermoelectrics on a much smaller scale. He's working on an Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council-funded project to increase the efficiency of thermoelectric materials as an energy source for low-power electronics."Certainly there is sufficient excess thermal energy in many areas that can be tapped into. You only need to obtain a few milliwatts to do something useful," White says. His focus is very small temperature differences. For example, the difference between skin and ambient temperatures could provide the energy for low-power electronics in applications such as smart garments. His challenge is to get useful amounts of power from a few degrees, rather than the larger difference between warm and cold water in Rowe's TV experiment. "What we're trying to do is use nanostructured technology to increase the amount of thermojunctions in a given volume," White says.Exchange economicsLike other alternative energy technologies, storing power from thermoelectrics is a problem. John Loughhead, executive director of the UK Energy Research Centre, sees such practical issues better than most. Making a solid-state thermoelectric device takes a lot of energy and it's not, Loughhead suggests, immediately obvious you'll get that energy back. However, such devices would be more reliable than a mechanical alternator, which he reckons has an energy conversion efficiency of less than 10%."Cars are consuming an increasing amount of electricity. They have a fairly high temperature exhaust that's difficult to use for anything else," Loughhead says. Does he think thermoelectrics is viable? "It's one of those things where you'd be looking at the exact economics."Nevertheless, using waste heat to provide a new power supply for cars seems feasible. BMW in North America is engineering a prototype 750 watt thermoelectric generator for 3.0 litre Series 5, while General Motors plans a GM Suburban SUV with a thermoelectric generator using engine waste heat. And if vehicle manufacturers eventually succeed in replacing mechanical alternators with thermoelectric modules, then it's going to be good for your pocket and the planet.Good for the planet20m:Gallons of crude oil Japan hopes to save by 2010 by exploiting thermoelectrics2002:Year Japan began research to develop advanced thermoelectric modules10%:Fuel efficiency improvement sought by GM and BMW from thermoelectrics
Tens of millions of internet users across the Middle East and Asia have been left without access to the web after a technical fault cut millions of connections.The outage, which is being blamed on a fault in a single undersea cable, has severely restricted internet access in countries including India, Egypt and Saudi Arabia and left huge numbers of people struggling to get online.Observers say that the digital blackout first struck yesterday morning, with the Egypt's communications ministry suggesting it was caused by a cut in a major internet pipeline linking it to Europe.The line in question runs under the Mediterranean, from Palermo in Italy to Alexandria in Egypt.  It is not clear what caused the break. The cable is one of only a handful of connections, and part of the world's longest undersea cable, 24,500 miles long, running from Germany, through the Middle East and India before terminating in Australia and Japan.Reports suggested that the lack of alternative routes for internet traffic meant only a small proportion of surfers were managing to get online. Egyptian officials said that around 70% of the country's online traffic was being blocked, while officials in Mumbai said that more than half of India's internet capacity had been erased, which could have potentially disastrous consequences for the country's burgeoning hi-tech industry."There has been a 50% to 60% cut in bandwidth," Rajesh Charia, president of the Internet Service Providers' Association of India told Reuters.The shutdown highlighted the often frail nature of international communications: despite the vast number of individuals who have access to the web, nearly all internet traffic is routed through a small number of cables submerged deep below the oceans. It is then forwarded through an internet backbone consisting of just 13 servers which handle and direct all online requests.Amr Gharbeia, a blogger from Cairo, said the inability to communicate with the outside world had caused confusion and concern among Egyptians. "When I woke up this morning there was no internet at home, and then I visited two or three other places during the day and they had no access either," he told the Guardian.He said the lack of information about the outage meant that many people had been left wondering if the Egyptian authorities - who have previously jailed online critics and threatened to close down websites they deem a threat - had blocked web access in an act of censorship."We started getting paranoid because we've seen the internet temporarily shut down before in countries like Pakistan," he said. "But I think we only have two internet gateways that go outside of Egypt, so perhaps only the smaller one is currently working."The outage will take several days to fix, and could have a drastic impact around the region and across the globe. As well as hitting communications, businesses and the hi-tech industry in affected countries, it could also have repercussions for banks and even stock market trading.
We mentionedPassagelast year when coveringKokoromi's Gamma256festival, but news about the 5-minute game has exploded recently, as mainstream media outlets have picked up on the indie game. Gamma256 has had incredible longevity beyond its short life, and this is a testament to the importance of gameplay over graphics.Passage is a surprisingly emotional game,as others have commented. It's extremely simple in concept: a character moves forward in space and in time (that's it: arrow keys up, down, left and right), as the future looms, happens and fades as the past begins, extends and takes over the his life as he grows older. All you, the player, can do is press forward and backward. You can choose to explore, to find a wife and/or gain treasure, but inevitably your short life comes to an end. And that's all she wrote.FromJason Roher, the game's creator:Yes, you could spend your five minutes trying to accumulate as many points as possible, but in the end, death is still coming for you. Your score looks pretty meaningless hovering there above your little tombstone. This treatment of character death stands in stark contrast with the way death is commonly used in video games (where you die countless times during a given game and emerge victorious---and still alive---in the end). Passage is a game in which you die only once, at the very end, and you are powerless to stave off this inevitable loss.It takes a couple of plays to really start "playing" in the gaming sense, but the emotional impact comes from reading the creator's statement. I admit, my eyes got misty around this line:And if you're wondering, I do have light hair and blue eyes, and my spouse does have red hair and green eyes. When I was younger, I wore a green shirt, blue pants, and black shoes. Now my favorite outfit involves white shoes, brown pants, and a black shirt. My spouse used to have a light-green dress that was her favorite. And yes, my hair line is starting to creep back. That's me and my spouse in there, distilled down to 8x8 pixels each.And no, I haven't shown the game to her yet. I'm still waiting for the right moment.It's not often you get an autobiographical game. Perhaps that's why it's had such an impact.You can download Passagehere, and you can find out more about Arty games at Roher's site,Arthouse Games.Typos sorted. I have not been drinking. Thanks as always to everyone who kindly pointed them out.
No two-tone glasses requiredAs seen on the Gamesblog, this is the most amazing virtual reality demo you've ever seen. Sure, you need a Wii, but it's brilliant. And boy, do we want to have a game that uses thisrightnow.'Legal letter' 90% downloaded...You probably knew intellectually that you aren't anonymous when you download a file using bittorrent, but this shows - via Azureus - quite how non-anonymous you are. Hmm.At the third peg the time will be...Is there any better use for an industrai robot costing thousands of pounds than to mimic a 99p digital clock? No, maybe not. (Couldn't it build more Wiis or something?)Come on, what's your choice for the best tech videos you've seen?
The BBC has been shrewd in doing deals with the likes of YouTube and MySpace to let its content - though, sadly, not yet news - to be spread virally around the net. It is as good a way as any of re-engaging with young people who have been forsaking television for the web. But it is not yet perfect. I recently bought the BBC's recordings of Shakespeare's plays (on DVD), a Guardian readers' offer I would recommend - apart from one thing. It can only be played on a computer or television and not on, say, an iPod touch, which could be used on the move. This is all about digital rights management, the assumption that producers, not consumers, should decide how their products are to be used.The music industry is, of course, the worst offender. Instead of doing market research to discover how its customers would like to buy songs in the digital age (answer: simple, inexpensive downloads), they started suing consumers who, in the absence of an acceptable payments model, were downloading songs for nothing. Industry figures show that although album sales were down last year, digital sales worldwide were up 40% - hardly evidence of unstoppable piracy.In South Korea, which has been plagued by piracy, digital sales have soared and now account for more than 60% of the market. In Japan, full-track downloads to mobile phones account for 40% of all sales value. Why? Because there is an easy payment system - one that doesn't involve operators getting up to &pound;25 a track in data charges, as can happen here.The industry should accept there are plenty of other reasons why conventional sales are falling, of which piracy, unacceptable though it is, is only a part. Youngsters have other claims on their time, from computer games to watching DVDs. Part of the fall may be due to a lull in top-class albums. Also, the infrastructure of the industry has been turned inside out. There are 7m bands registered on MySpace, many promoting tracks for nothing. That is bound to change the nature of the marketplace.Most important, the industry has been slow to adjust to the two radical innovations of the digital age: that the cost of distribution is virtually nothing and that canny use of viral marketing can slash marketing costs. If EMI, once one of the most innovative companies on the planet, had realised this, it would not have led to the private equity company Terra Firma taking them over and doing it for them.Now things are at last changing. It would be too generous to say that the industry has seen the light: more a case that the light has become so powerful they can't get out of the way. As the news from the music executives' jamboree in Cannes this week confirms, we are on the brink of a swing towards affordable or free music backed by targeted advertising as the big labels and companies such as Yahoo! and Last.fm join the bandwagon.Of course artists should be paid. It is just that the music industry should not have an exemption certificate from technological change. The sharp rise in legal downloads proves that the tectonic plates are moving. Like others, I have bought far more tracks since iTunes started simple payments. The industry claims that the ratio of illegal to legal downloads is 20 to 1. Even if technically true, what does it mean? Are they hinting sales should be up to 20 times higher?Downloading on that scale is akin to listening to the radio, mostly a transient experience that doesn't affect sales on the scale claimed. Illegal downloading is just one of many factors. But if the industry really does believe that the 20 to 1 ratio is real, then think of the bonanza that lies ahead as it converts those downloads into sales, especially in China where piracy is claimed to be 99% of the market. The lesson is clear: the more affordable payments are in place, the less will be the drain from piracy.victor.keegan@guardian.co.uk
The ClubXbox 360/PS3/PC, &pound;39.99, cert 15+, Bizarre Creations/Sega, 3/5The Club is a very odd beast indeed. Although to all intents and purposes a third/first-person shooter, its gameplay has more in common with Liverpool developer Bizarre Creations' two most feted games, Project Gotham Racing and Geometry Wars: Retro Evolved. That's because it encourages you to "run and gun" - to score points, you must chain together strings of kills - and if you're not shooting enemies (or skull signs), your multiplier bleeds away. It has various mission types - you might have to complete laps of a course within a certain time, collecting time extensions by killing enemies and running over power-ups, survive within a delineated area for a certain time or simply get to the exit while scoring as many points as possible. While it looks impressive, it doesn't make a great first impression - the targeting system is too stiff, plus you need to take the time to familiarise yourself with the levels. Also, the easiest difficulty setting is too gentle, whereas all the others are fearsomely hard. But if you persevere, it becomes rather compelling. A game you'll either love or hate.Steve BoxerEndless OceanWii, &pound;19.99, cert 3+, Nintendo, 3/5Once again the Wii throws up something a bit different to the shooting/scoring/skidding game norm. Endless Ocean is a scuba-diving game that lets you lazily swim around exploring the seabed. The controls are simple. Point your Wiimote at the screen and press the button to swim. Peaceful and therapeutic are not words often used to describe console games, but they sum up the Endless Ocean experience. The aim of the game - as such - is to interact with the sea creatures and gather information about them. This is done, bizarrely, by petting and feeding them. And there is a plot of sorts too. But really, most of the fun is had by simply floating around and exploring the corals and caves. The Wii's lack of graphical oomph is a shame, as a game which already looks pretty - all dappled sunlight and clear water - would look fantastic in HD. Cheap, cheerful and very relaxing, Endless Ocean is well worth a dip.Greg HowsonUniverse at War: Invasion EarthPC, &pound;34.99, cert 16+, Petroglyph/Sega, 3/5Unlike most RTSs, Universe is all about aliens slugging it out in a post-holocaust Earth. You get three very different races, massive, power-packed units and a nice line in instant upgrades that can radically alter how you fight specific foes. All the time you have to keep building resources and taking on time-sensitive objectives. It makes for a hectic and challenging game that's always fun to watch, but occasionally less so to play. Sadly, the AI leaves much to be desired, as do the heavily scripted levels and close-in perspective - sometimes you can lose an objective without knowing it's under attack. Things perk up online, but this is a potentially classic RTS in need of more testing.Mike Anderiesz
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too.. with a look at Vista's sound problems for amateurs and pros, whether paid-for social networking can work, new interactive "travel time" maps (with house prices), interview Eugene Kaspersky, and look at thermoelectricity. Plus opinion, games reviews, Ask Jack and more. Click through for the full links..Why Vista sounds worseChanges to how the latest version of Windows handles audio playback has caused unexpected quality issues for musicians and consumers alike, reports Tim AndersonThe internet rewards the lazy and punishes the intrepidNicholas Carr: As GPS transceivers become common accessories in cars, the benefits have been manifoldGamesThe Club | Endless Ocean | Universe at War: Invasion EarthNewly asked questionsIs a US spy satellite going to land on my head?NewsbytesNew Google views | We shop | Milk, eggs, Dell | 50 meg broadband | GMX returns | Challenging Flash chips | A-Life for Southampton | UK gets OneCareRevolutionary 'travel time' maps stumble at the cost barrierYou've got your dream job in central London. You're prepared to travel for between 30 and 60 minutes to get to it. You've also got enough money to put a deposit on a house. Where do you start looking?How to fight those foxy forces of evil effectivelyKeith Stuart: Last week a Fox News report on the Xbox 360 game Mass Effect characterised the critically acclaimed sci-fi epic as a sexually explicit adventure filled with nudityMaking social networking pay - for usersCan websites that promise to pay visitors for visiting really work? Or does history show that they are doomed to fail?TechnophileMicrosoft's Natural Desktop 7000 is not the cheapest ergonomic combo, but it does the job with style, says Kate BevanLetters and blogsIt's just not fair | Cutting through the bias | Spies in the sky | Imperial thought | Bigger, better, faster? | Sharing is caring | Firefox not so hotYouChooseNo two-tone glasses required | 'Legal letter' 90% downloaded | At the third peg ...The ex-KGB man stalking the cybercriminalsThe founder of Kaspersky Lab, Eugene Kaspersky, sees himself as a modern revolutionary trying to keep us safe from malware authorsAsk JackShared insecurity | But why? | Cheap laptop | Save the Office | Psion repairs | BackchatInsider blames overheating GPU for Xbox 360 failuresThe high failure rate of the original version of Microsoft's Xbox 360 games console is principally due to the graphics processor unit getting too hot and warping the motherboard, claims an anonymous source within MicrosoftHow hardcore gamers are being pushed aside by the soft surroundWhich is the leading next-generation console company? Is it Sony, with its energy-sucking PlayStation 3? Or Microsoft, the new adult on the block?
Recently my Hotmail and Googlemail accounts were accessed via a shared computer in my shared home using tracking software that revealed my secure passwords. I have changed the passwords and set up new email accounts, which I only use on a non-shared computer at work. What else can I do?Name withheldIf someone else has physical access to a PC then ultimately there is no security, unless you can encrypt a portion of the hard drive. You will need your own account with administrator level access. I'd suggest TrueCrypt, which is open source, does on-the-fly encryption and can be run in"traveller mode".You should also run all your own applications from a USB memory stick, using Firefox Portable Edition. This is included in a useful bundle, the Portableapps.com Suite, which provides a menu system along with an office suite, calendar/scheduler, instant messaging client, antivirus, Sudoku game and backup utility (http://portableapps.com/suite). Go for the Base Edition that lets you select your preferred applications. You could also put together your own collection from other sources:WorldStartwill get you started.Travellers and users of shared computers can increase their level of security by using SysInternals'Process Explorerto delete unwanted background tasks, flushing browser caches and rebooting the PC afterwards. But carrying an encrypted USB Flash drive is a better option.
I am looking for an entry-level laptop for under £250 for basic tasks such as surfing the internet and sending and checking mail and talking to my friends on MSN. Any suggestions?David StansbyGetting under £250 is a bit of a challenge for a new laptop, but you can buy decent machines online for around £300. A current example is the Compaq HP 530 with Windows Vista Home Basic, DVD and 15.4 inch screen (laptopshop.co.ukbut also available elsewhere). At that sort of price you'll usually have to compromise on processor speed, memory and hard drive size. The HP 530, for example, only has 512MB of memory. You can upgrade it, but then it comes out much the same as buying a standard 1.6GHz Dell Inspiron with a gigabyte - £319 including delivery and VAT, or £329 with DVD+/-RW. Otherwise you could chance your luck on eBay. Thousands of machines go for £150 or less.
Last week you explained how to save Microsoft Office 2007 documents in theold Office formats. Is there any way of changing the default?Andy FidlerYes: click the round Office button in the top left, click on (say) Word Options at the bottom of the panel, then click on Save, on the left. Go to where it says "Save files in this format" and select one of the 29 options from the list.
I was disturbed to see you describing Office 2007 as using the "much improved Open XML". In what way is it much improved if I have to save in a different format?Philip FoxeThe old binary formats were proprietary, largely undocumented, bloated and vulnerable to malware exploits. The new Open XML formats are smaller, cleaner, much more robust, more powerful, more programmable and more secure. They have also been published and ratified as an open standard (ECMA-376), which reduces Microsoft's lock-in. When change is for the good, you should embrace it, especially whenMicrosoft's Compatibility Packmeans the upgrade is free. After 20 years, it's time to move on.
I have a Psion Series 5. Do you know anybody who might be able to fix it?Barrie HolderYou could try Pinnock Organiser Services (POS) Ltd in Croydon; seeposltd.com/support.htmor call 020 8684 2800. Gareth and Jane Saunders have auseful listof typical faults and repairers.Backchat: Steve Dunk says: "A repair service I have used for a broken ribbon cable (a common problem) is Paul Wright atPsionflexi."
New Google viewsGoogle Labs is testing some new ways to view search results, including timelines and maps, and says: "Take one for a spin and let us know what you think."google.com/experimentalWe shopA Nielsen global survey has revealed that more than 875 million consumers have now shopped online.tinyurl.com/yntkt5(Word doc)Milk, eggs, DellThis week Tesco started selling Dell desktop and notebook PCs at more than 160 stores, with prices starting at &pound;399.tinyurl.com/2glg5f50 meg broadbandVirgin Media says it will offer a new 50Mbps cable broadband service to more than 9m homes in the UK by the end of the year.tinyurl.com/yv9hvzGMX returnsThe free Global Mail Exchange (GMX) web-based email service has returned to the UK with all-new software.gmx.co.ukChallenging Flash chipsIn California, Nanochip Inc has raised the funds needed to complete the development of 100 gigabit memory chips, with larger ones due later.tinyurl.com/2azlrt(PDF)A-Life for SouthamptonThe Artificial Life XI conference will be held at the University of Southampton from August 5-8, its first time in Europe.alifexi.org/cfpUK gets OneCareMicrosoft has now launched its Windows Live OneCare service, which includes security monitoring and backup, in the UK.onecare.live.com
The high failure rate of the original version of Microsoft's Xbox 360 games console is principally due to the graphics processor unit (GPU) getting too hot and warping the motherboard, stressing solder joints on that and other parts and leading to failure in about 30% of cases. That is the claim of an anonymous - but apparently well-placed - source within Microsoft who has given an extensive online interview to a Seattle-based games blogger. The best way to avoid failure? Blow more air through the machine to cool it.Jacob Metcalf of 8bitjoystick, who conducted the interview (attinyurl.com/ytcd9j), said the source had worked on the Xbox 360 project "for many years". The source's knowledge of personnel details suggests they would have to be working very close to, or inside, the company. Microsoft called it "speculation".The problem with the original Xenon design of the Xbox 360, launched in November 2005, is huge, the source said. "This quarter they [Microsoft] are expecting 1m failures, most of those Xenons." The failure rate is "around 30%, and all will probably fail early". With little fault tolerance, "a bad unit can fail in hours".Although Microsoft itself has never admitted precisely what the problems with the original Xbox 360 were, last July it announced a dramatic extension of its guarantee, from one year to three, to cover every machine sold and took a $1bn (&pound;503m) charge against profits (Where the Xbox 360 went wrong, July 12 2007). "There are a lot of different issues that eventually could all combine [to produce a failure]," said Peter Moore, then head of Xbox. "No [one] specific issue."That is backed up by the insider, who says that the "Red Ring of Death" problem (when the power switch shows red lights) can be caused by any failure in the "digital backbone", including faults in manufacturing leading. But "the main design flaw was the excessive heat on the GPU warping the motherboard around it. This would stress the solder joints on the GPU".The best way to lessen such stress is to blow air into the box from a fan that is not powered off the 360's USB hubs. Newer iterations of the design - the latest are codenamed Falcon - have a lower reported failure rate of about 10%, still higher than the industry average of between 3% and 5%.
Which is the leading next-generation console company? Is it Sony, with its energy-sucking PlayStation 3? Or Microsoft, the new adult on the block, with its slightly improved design doesn't go wrong that often now, and which has the exclusive on Halo 3, last year's best-selling game in the US? And for your bonus point, since Microsoft doesn't do a handheld, which company leads the handheld race? Knowing the answer is important, because it tells us a lot about where games are going. And the answer?That's right: Nintendo on both counts. Last week it finally told us how many Wiis and how many DS consoles it had sold. And the numbers were, as they say, gangbusters. In Europe it has sold 6m Wiis and 20m DS consoles. That compares to the PS3, which has sold - averaging the best estimates - 8.5m worldwide, while the Xbox has done about 16.8m in all. The Wii has done 20m, making it the clear leader.And handhelds? Sony's PlayStation Portable has sold about 30m. That's impressive for a product launched in September 2005. But the DS, launched six months before? In all, 66m - more than twice as many. This is a really important moment in the development of computer games within our culture. While it's games like Bully and Manhunt and even, um, Mass Effect (as Keith has dealt with this week) that garner the media attention, and the hardcore gamers argue about the merits of one console over another - always the PS3 vs the Xbox 360 - something has happened. The hardcore has been enveloped by the soft surround.The Wii and the DS have trumped all the marketing effort put in by Sony and Microsoft, which spent millions advertising Halo 3 - to good effect, as it sold more than 4.8m copies in the US last year (tinyurl.com/2dj368). Victory to the hardcore! Except that the second-placed seller in the US, with 4.1m sold, was Wii Play, which offers such violent delights as, um, fishing and table tennis, catching soap bubbles and bull racing. (OK, it has target shooting - but the target is never, ever a person.) Third-placed game? Call of Duty. Hurrah! Hardcore again. Fourth-placed? Guitar Hero - nothing gets fragged except the frets. (And that's a game for the last-gen PS2.)In all these, the soft surround is triumphing: the simpler, gentler product gets the prize. This will seem perverse to people for whom one or two frames per second in Quake or Doom are bragging rights on whichever board they want to hang out on. How, they ask, can a machine that's so slow be so popular? Many like to resort to the "Windows" argument: Microsoft's operating system isn't the best, they say - but look how pervasive that is. This ignores the fact that the dominance of Windows emerged directly from the choices of corporations, not consumers, whereas consoles are entirely consumer choices.Perhaps a better analogy is with films, where critical praise is often heaped on films that explore darker reaches of the soul, or investigate complexity in storytelling: think of the plaudits that Citizen Kane or Memento won. Then look at their box-office takings compared to brain-light fare such as The Fast And The Furious. The complexity of games such as Call Of Duty, Halo 3 or Grand Theft Auto 3 is far greater than any movie (unsurprisingly, since a film has to be complete in at most three hours, compared to a &pound;40 videogame that has to last 10 times as long to be satisfying). By that analogy, hardcore games are like highbrow cinema: if you don't like them, you're not "artistic" enough.The reality though is that the latest sales figures for the Wii and the DS, and the successful games, show that the broader spread of people isn't looking for games that involve mind-twisting complexity. But it would be wrong to mistake complexity for difficulty. The rules and objectives of golf, or chess or tennis are simple to master; but people spend a lifetime pursuing success in them. People like the Wii because you can dip into good-enough simulations of sports like tennis. Hardcore gamers will have to accept the facts: they're not the mainstream anymore. They're an eddy in the onrushing river of games evolution.
No. Well, not this week, anyway. Though you'd be forgiven for fretting when you heard the news that the Americans had lost control of one of their spy satellites and that it was expected to head earthwards.Certainly something the size of a small bus, as the dodgy satellite is reported to be, falling out of the sky could potentially cause a lot of damage - depending on where it falls, of course.Fears are exacerbated by the fact that anything falling from space into the atmosphere is likely to get extremely hot indeed. So potentially you could have a Hollywood-esque scenario of bits of flaming stuff crashing down on to city streets.In fact, that's not terribly likely. According to scientists, anything entering the Earth's atmosphere from space would have to be very heat-resistant indeed: it is more likely that debris from the rogue satellite will simply burn up before it gets anywhere near the ground.Experts also point out that much of the planet's surface is covered with water: as Gordon Jondroe, a White House spokesman, noted earlier this week: "Given that 75% of the Earth is covered with water and much of the land is uninhabited, the likely percentage of this satellite or any debris falling into a populated area is very small."But even if this satellite isn't likely to bounce on to your head, let's not forget that there is a lot of what's known as space junk out there. While the old adage, what goes up must come down, doesn't necessarily apply to objects outside the effects of gravity, there is nonetheless the possibility that some of this stuff could re-enter the atmosphere and make it to Earth.Current estimates put the amount of space junk - which ranges from jettisoned bits of spacecraft to nuts and bolts and the liquid components of astronaut waste (which freezes when it's ejected into space) - at something like 1m bits of, well, crap, floating around the planet.A bigger threat has always been asteroids and meteors; a huge bit of rock from outer space is thought to have done for the dinosaurs, and more recently we had a narrow squeak (in astronomical terms) when a 600ft asteroid zoomed passed us at a distance of just 538,000km.This isn't the first time that a satellite has returned to Earth in a more disorganised fashion than planned. In 1979, Skylab broke up and fell back to Earth, landing mostly in the Indian Ocean and some very empty bits of Western Australia. In 2001, the 135-tonne Mir just burnt.But back to the more immediate threat of that duff US spy satellite. It's due to hit the atmosphere towards the end of next month. Nobody quite knows how much hydrazine rocket fuel it might still contain, so if you hear an agitated hen saying "the sky is falling", she might not be joking.
No two-tone glasses requiredAs seen on the Gamesblog, this is the most amazing virtual reality demo you've ever seen. Sure, you need a Wii, but it's brilliant. And boy, do we want to have a game that uses this right now.tinyurl.com/2p2wq6'Legal letter' 90% downloadedYou probably knew intellectually that you aren't anonymous when you download a file using bittorrent, but this shows - via Azureus - quite how non-anonymous you really are. Hmm.tinyurl.com/28txkoAt the third peg ...Is there any better use for an industrial robot costing thousands of pounds than to mimic a 99p digital clock? Maybe not.tinyurl.com/2khbzf&#183;Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
Shared insecurityRecently my Hotmail and Googlemail accounts were accessed via a shared computer in my shared home using tracking software that revealed my secure passwords. I have changed the passwords and set up new email accounts, which I only use on a non-shared computer at work. What else can I do?Name withheldJS:If someone else has physical access to a PC then ultimately there is no security, unless you can encrypt a portion of the hard drive. You will need your own account with administrator level access. I'd suggest TrueCrypt, which is open source, does on-the-fly encryption and can be run in "traveller mode" (tinyurl.com/2k27f4).You should also run all your own applications from a USB memory stick, using Firefox Portable Edition. This is included in a useful bundle, theportableapps.com/suite, which provides a menu system along with an office suite, calendar/scheduler, instant messaging client, antivirus, Sudoku game and backup utility (portableapps.com/suite). Go for the Base Edition that lets you select your preferred applications. You could also put together your own collection from other sources: WorldStart will get you started (tinyurl.com/yp8uwb).Travellers and users of shared computers can increase their level of security by using SysInternals' Process Explorer (tinyurl.com/ys2zq2) to delete unwanted background tasks, flushing browser caches and rebooting the PC afterwards. But carrying an encrypted USB Flash drive is a better option.But why?I was disturbed to see you describing Office 2007 as using the "much improved Open XML". In what way is it much improved if I have to save in a different format?Philip FoxeJS:The old binary formats were proprietary, largely undocumented, bloated and vulnerable to malware exploits. The new Open XML formats are smaller, cleaner, much more robust, more powerful, more programmable and more secure. They have also been published and ratified as an open standard (ECMA-376), which reduces Microsoft's lock-in. When change is for the good, you should embrace it, especially when Microsoft's Compatibility Pack (tinyurl.com/2xp8e3) means the upgrade is free. After 20 years, it's time to move on.Cheap laptopI am looking for an entry-level laptop for under &pound;250. Any suggestions?David StansbyJS:Getting under &pound;250 is a bit of a challenge for a new laptop, but you can buy decent machines online for around &pound;300. A current example is the Compaq HP 530 with Windows Vista Home Basic, DVD and 15.4 inch screen (tinyurl.com/2qhgombut also available elsewhere). At that sort of price you'll usually have to compromise on processor speed, memory and hard drive size. The HP 530, for example, only has 512MB of memory. You can upgrade it, but then it comes out much the same as buying a standard 1.6GHz Dell Inspiron with a gigabyte - &pound;319 including delivery and VAT, or &pound;329 with DVD+/-RW. Otherwise you could chance your luck on eBay. Thousands of machines go for &pound;150 or less.Save the OfficeLast week you explained how to save Microsoft Office 2007 documents in the old Office formats. Is there any way of changing the default?Andy FidlerJS:Yes: click the round Office button in the top left, click on (say) Word Options at the bottom of the panel, then click on Save, on the left. Go to where it says "Save files in this format" and select one of the 29 options from the list.Psion repairsI have a Psion Series 5. Do you know anybody who might be able to fix it?Barrie HolderJS:You could try Pinnock Organiser Services (POS) Ltd in Croydon; seeposltd.com/support.htmor call 020 8684 2800. Gareth and Jane Saunders have a useful list of typical faults and repairers attinyurl.com/2ap3r8.Backchat&#183;Theresa Lovell Clarke complained about flashing adverts in Yahoo mail. Richard Morton, a web accessibility specialist, says: "Contact Yahoo and ask them to remove flickering images from their web pages. Remind them that it is their duty under the Disability Discrimination Act to make reasonable adjustments for people with disabilities."&#183;Steve Ballantyne wanted a Windows backup program. Several readers point out that Microsoft has a free SyncToy (tinyurl.com/7dlru). Colin Hall suggests Mozy (mozy.com), David Brinicombe suggests Lionmax's Compare and Backup (tinyurl.com/267j27) and Allan Jones suggests AJC Directory Synchroniser (ajcsoft.com).&#183;Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
As GPS transceivers become common accessories in cars, the benefits have been manifold. Millions of us have been relieved of the nuisance of getting lost or, even worse, the shame of having to ask a passerby for directions.But, as with all popular technologies, those dashboard maps are having some unintended consequences. In many cases, the shortest route between two points turns out to run through once-quiet neighborhoods and formerly out-of-the-way hamlets.Villages have been overrun by cars and lorries whose drivers robotically follow the instructions dispensed by their satellite navigation systems. The International Herald Tribune reports (tinyurl.com/24zcyg) that the parish council of Barrow Gurney has even requested, fruitlessly, that the town be erased from the maps used by the makers of navigation devices.A research group in the Netherlands last month issued a report documenting the phenomenon and the resulting risk of accidents. It went so far as to say that satnav systems can turn drivers into child killers (tinyurl.com/24dkcw).A new generation of satnav devices is now on the horizon. They'll be connected directly to the internet, providing drivers with a steady stream of real-time information about traffic congestion, accidents and road construction. The debut of one, Dash Express, at CES in Las Vegas led to claims that the new technology might spell the end of traffic jams forever (tinyurl.com/23fkbx).That would be nice, but I have my doubts. When we all have equally precise, equally up-to-the-second information on traffic conditions, the odds are that we'll all respond in similar ways. As we all act in unison to avoid one bottleneck, we'll just create a new bottleneck. We may come to look back fondly on the days when information was less uniformly distributed.That's the problem with the so-called transparency that's resulting from instantly available digital information. When we all know what everyone else knows, it becomes ever harder to escape the pack.Just ask the hardcore surfers who dedicate themselves to finding the best waves. They used to be able to keep their favourite beaches secret, riding their boards in relative solitude. But in recent months people have begun putting up video cameras, known as surfcams, along remote shorelines and streaming the video over the internet.Thanks to the cameras, once-secluded waters are now crowded with hordes of novice surfers. That's led to an outbreak of surfcam rage, according to a report last weekend in the New York Times (tinyurl.com/29t56w). Die-hard surfers are smashing any cameras they find in the hope that they might be able to stop the tide of transparency. But the vandalism is in vain. For every surfcam broken, a few more go up in its place.There is, of course, much to be said for the easy access to information that the internet is allowing. Information that was once reserved for the rich, the well-connected and the powerful is becoming accessible to all. That helps level the playing field, spreading economic and social opportunities more widely and fairly.At the same time, though, transparency is erasing the advantages that once went to the intrepid, the dogged and the resourceful. The surfer who through pluck and persistence found the perfect wave off an undiscovered stretch of beach is being elbowed out by the lazy masses who can discover the same wave with just a few mouse clicks. The commuter who pored over printed maps to find a shortcut to work finds herself stuck in a jam with the GPS-enabled multitudes.You have to wonder whether, as what was once opaque is made transparent, the bolder among us will lose the incentive to strike out for undiscovered territory. What's the point when every secret becomes, in a real-time instant, common knowledge?A see-through world may not be all that it's cracked up to be. We may find that as we come to know everything about everything, we all end up in the same mess together.&#183;Nicholas Carr's new book, The Big Switch, will be published in the UK next week. He blogs atroughtype.com
It's just not fairConsumer contracts are regulated by the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contract Regulations 1999, which makes unfair terms and conditions unenforceable (Porn bill firm opens new front, January 24). If, for example, you fail to pay your window cleaner, he is entitled to take action to recover money owed to him, but he is not entitled to smash your windows - regardless of what he has written in the contract. Billing software is one thing, but billing software designed to prevent you making lawful use of your property clearly fails the fairness test.Les Jones,NorthamptonCutting through the biasI'm not expecting much from Wikia Search (You say you've never considered the politics of search engines?, January 24). Users will have to do too much work to identify and cut through bias and tampering.websearchguide.caSpies in the skyOften, discussions around the threats of technology to basic human rights seem to assume that if a certain action is made possible by technology then it will be undertaken by someone, that there is an overriding technological imperative before which appeals to "rights", "privacy", "morals" are helpless (Sharper aerial pictures spark privacy fears, January 24) . And indeed the192.comapproach seems to bear this out. But the fact that 192 is breaking a kind of social arrangement between (in this case) internet companies and the wider photographed public shows that there have been such agreements in the past, that technological innovation does not necessarily have to drive all else before it.flux.futurelab.org.ukIt has great resolution but the interface and layout is poor - if it was in Google Maps or Live Local it would be great; as it is, it's a disappointment.digitalurban.blogspot.comImperial thoughtI didn't go metric in the 1970s (Letters, January 24). Like a good many Guardian Technology readers I was conceived in the imperial years. I can understand &frac34; of an inch perfectly well - 1.94 cm is just damn silly. Almost as silly as making a computer &frac34; inch thick.Nick Dore,LincolnBigger, better, faster?Michael Cross hit the nail on the head (We need vision for next-generaton broadband, not complacency, January 17). If we are to build a true knowledge-based economy, we need a communications infrastructure that is fit for purpose. Everyone involved in the "next generation access" debate knows that copper telephone lines are coming to the end of their useful life. We need to move to fibre-optic and high-speed wireless connections so that our citizens can enjoy next-generation broadband speeds like their counterparts in Japan, Korea, parts of Europe and the US.Malcolm Corbett,chief executive, Community Broadband NetworkSharing is caringNice article (All this online sharing has to stop, Guardian Unlimited, January 25). All the funnier for the disapproving tones of the opening paras!Alan McMahon,LondonFirefox not so hotAfter being quite happy with AdBlock and Firefox for many months, I came across the Firefox Myths page (tinyurl.com/8bhwv) and was tempted to try Opera; and found it even easier to block the ads, and that without installing an extension (Ask Jack, January 24). I find Opera preferable in other respects, including password management and keyboard friendliness (for the mouse-averse). Maybe Firefox will catch up with version 3.James Sykes,Cheadle&#183;Read all this week's letters and blogs atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology&#183;Write to: Letters, Technology Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER, or email to:tech@guardian.co.uk
Bedroom YouTube broadcasters will soon be able to share in the profits that the video-sharing website makes from  advertising, after the site extended a partnership scheme to the UK.Among the first to benefit will be Panacea81, whose tutorial showing how to perfect an eye make-up look inspired by the singer Leona Lewis has already been watched more than 643,000 times. As will 18-year-old Jimmy Hill, who delivers wryly amusing riffs taking in the royal family, Creme Eggs and celebrity from his studio - a bedroom in Staffordshire.The Google-owned website opens its partnership programme in the UK today. The programme was launched in the US last year and Google said some partners were earning several thousand dollars a month from videos on the site.Hill said he had already been recognised in the local supermarket, where he is working during a gap year before university. He said he spent most of his spare time thinking up new topics for his webcam monologues."I did it because it was there, really. I'd never considered doing anything in the media, but I thought I'd give it a go and my popularity spiralled," he said.James Provan, a musician and filmmaker from Scotland, has already become a YouTube phenomenon with his short films that mix music, animation and live action. The 25-year-old computer studies student, known on the site as GIR2007, will also benefit from the new programme.
Just what does a glitch sound like? That's easy, explains Steve Ball: "Glitches during music playback can sound like a loud 'pop' or like a brief slice of silence where your music should have been." As the senior program manager for sound in Windows Vista, Ball knows that nobody wants that.So it must have been difficult for him to author a blog post explaining why Vista suffers from precisely that problem - glitches on some systems during music playback or composition.Boiled down, his explanation (tinyurl.com/ywgm5t) is: because Windows has to do lots of things at once. His best news? "Windows developers have made significant progress in reducing glitching. For example, music playback on an otherwise lightly loaded system can be generally as smooth as [a] $20 (&pound;10) CD player."But that's hardly what someone using a &pound;1,000 computer wants to hear. Among the scores of comments, one remarked: "My mobile phone can play MP3s, while I surf the web, on a call and text message; all without any glitches."So what's gone wrong? Our investigation suggests a combination of wholesale changes to the way Vista handles audio, late bugfixes, and problems in drivers written by the makers of soundcards.For music professionals, though, it's a dealbreaker. Will Benger, a musician who also works at Making Waves Audio, a music technology retailer, advises his customers to stick with XP. "Vista is riddled with issues with existing software packages and existing hardware," he says. "If you've got problems with recording audio, you might not get a second chance. You can't sell a system to a professional studio if you don't know for sure that it's going to work."That's a problem in the professional music market, where Apple has a significant share - one-third or more - of the market. Apple went through similar struggles with musicians in the shift to OSX; but that was more than five years ago. Now it's Microsoft's turn.No cakewalkNot everyone has problems with audio in Vista, but it is still perplexing. How could Microsoft set out to improve the audio system, yet end up making it worse?Noel Borthwick, chief technology officer for Cakewalk, which creates music software for both the consumer and professional markets, recalls his company's first involvement with Vista - in 2003. "Microsoft had a Vista audio summit - it was called Longhorn at the time - and invited several vendors for private meetings to put forward the specification for audio in Vista and try and collect feedback."Fundamental changes were on the way: many of Cakewalk's products used a programming interface called DirectSound, which was being phased out. "We went back and re-invented all the stuff that we did in our applications," Borthwick says.In 2005 there was another conference. "Microsoft presented Vista as it was going to be released. We found some fundamental flaws. WaveRT [see panel] is a new mechanism by which audio drivers would perform really well. There were a couple of flaws in the design. We pointed out the flaws before Vista shipped."Microsoft made changes - but they came so late in Vista's development that a number of companies released drivers for WaveRT used the old, inefficient model. "So there's a fundamental flaw right there for consumer audio," Borthwick says.In fact, Vista's new audio setup lays numerous traps for driver authors. Most off-the-shelf PCs have integrated soundcards, produced by companies such as Realtek and Analog Devices, makers of SoundMAX. Borthwick says these tended to have older WaveRT drivers.Users of add-on sound cards such as those from Creative Labs suffered different problems: those drivers often required an emulation system to work in Vista, a sure recipe for poor performance."The end-user experience on consumer audio devices is pretty bad on Vista for the most part," says Borthwick. (Creative Labs describes its own struggles with Vista's new architecture attinyurl.com/qhzyy).Professional musicians face different issues. For performance reasons, professional audio drivers tend to bypass the Windows audio engine, using de facto standards such as Steinberg's ASIO (Audio Stream Input/Output)."Nothing really changes in how you talk to an ASIO driver in Vista as compared to XP," Borthwick says. "The problem under Vista is overhead in the operating system itself. It takes more CPU to achieve the same result. You tend to get clicks or pops or noise."Things can only get ...Vista's audio is getting better. Drivers are improving, and the imminent Service Pack 1 apparently fixes some bugs, such as one that affected timing on MIDI (used by professionals to integrate sequencers).Experts agree that Vista's audio has potential. "The WaveRT driver architecture can produce better performance," says Robin Vincent of Rain Computers, which builds PCs for musicians. "However, no one supports that. That's the problem."Steinberg's Lars Baumann believes Vista will improve. "We think Vista is going to be the future platform for audio applications, but it will take more time."Another promising area is 64-bit computing. "A 64-bit operating system breaks down a lot of the barriers to RAM and performance. It just seems to be really hard to move people to it," Vincent says."Vista still has promise," Borthwick says. "Microsoft needs to clean up the loose ends in Vista to make it deliver. I still think it's possible."Different key: how audio changed in VistaLarry Osterman, a Microsoft software design engineer, says there were three goals for audio in Vista. First: improve system stability. Windows is designed round a low-level component called the kernel. If software within the kernel crashes, all of Windows crashes. By contrast, processes running outside the kernel can be safely killed and restarted. Microsoft moved most audio processing, apart from the audio driver itself, out of the kernel.The second goal: improve audio quality by reducing processing delays (called latency), critical for professional users. The third goal: a better user interface for controlling audio.Latency indicates how long it takes for an audio event - a beep, a chunk of music from an MP3 file, a MIDI signal - to travel through the system. It is critical for professional audio, which typically has several devices and channels that must be kept tightly synchronised.To achieve these goals in Vista, Microsoft created a new audio engine. Data flows through a stack of software components. Audio processing components handle digital effects and volume, a mixer component combines the sounds when several sources are playing at once, and a streaming component in the kernel feeds the sound to the audio driver. The low-level interface to the new engine is called WASAPI, the Windows Audio Session Application Programming Interface.Microsoft also introduced a new type of low-level audio driver, WaveRT (Wave Real Time). This is the preferred driver type for Vista. A WaveRT driver passes audio to the hardware with low latency and minimal interference.But late in Vista's development cycle, Microsoft added an optional event-driven mode for WaveRT drivers, so audio applications do not have to query the driver repeatedly. Unfortunately many audio hardware vendors have not yet supplied WaveRT drivers for their products. Another weakness of WaveRT is that it only works with internal sound devices, not external devices connected by USB or Firewire. Some professional audio drivers bypass the built-in audio engine, using Steinberg's ASIO or a technique called Kernel Streaming.Finally, Vista has a scheduler service, which allows applications to register for prioritised use of system resources.Realising that users would want to use their old software and hardware, Microsoft maintained compatibility as far as it could. Older audio standards still work, but are emulated by software that feeds into WASAPI.In the case of DirectSound, that is unfortunate, as it was designed to enable low-level access to sound hardware - but no longer does so. Further, the new WaveRT drivers are not a requirement for Vista; older driver types are also supported, even though they work less well. All can lead to glitches.
Given how important they are, it's a surprise that people pay so little attention to keyboards and mice. The right input devices can make all the difference to your computing experience, saving you a clawed mouse hand and pain in your wrists and hands.Ergonomic keyboards have been around for a while, so the keyboard that forms half of the Microsoft Natural Ergonomic Desktop 7000 wireless mouse-and-keyboard combo is more of an evolution than a radical new design. It has the split down the middle which has been a feature of ergonomic keyboards since they were invented, intended to encourage a natural wrist posture - whatever that is.Its design is focused on encouraging a good typing posture - though if like me you were taught to touch-type by dragon-like secretarial trainers, you won't need the seven-degree reverse slope "for a more natural posture", nor the 14-degree gable "with enhanced slope" which "reduces wrist pronation" (I had to Google that: when your hands are tilted upwards, it puts a strain on your wrists).If you're a touch-typist who has got into sloppy posture habits, you might well like the design, as it does force you back into the posture you should have been taught. However, if you've got a small pair of mitts (I have), then it's going to feel quite big.It also takes a bit of getting used to as the home keys (asdf and jkl;) are further apart than on most other keyboards. I found the touch a bit spongy and you have to thump the space bar harder than perhaps you're used to with your thumb, though touch is a very personal thing. I didn't like it, but you might.The optical mouse is the real oddity, not looking much like the rodents we're familiar with. It's designed to keep your hand in a relaxed position and to keep pressure off the carpal tunnel zone. The buttons all fall comfortably under your fingers and despite the fact that it's a bit too big for my hand (though conversely its little brother, the Microsoft Mobile Memory Mouse 8000, is too small), it feels comfortable in use.The drivers are good - possibly the best thing about this ensemble. The keyboard has lots of extra function keys which you can either leave on their defaults (to control media player volume, launch email, browser etc) or map to other functions as you choose.The mouse offers horizontal scrolling and, best of all, an option to show all the active windows on your machine, rather like Apple OSX's excellent Expos&eacute; feature. You can use it with a Mac, too.With an SRP of &pound;99.99 it's not cheap, but if you need help from your hardware to reduce the strain on your hands, it's well worth considering.Pros:Good software drivers; comfortable mouseCons:expensive; keyboard too big for small handstinyurl.com/2kac5p
You've got your dream job - working for the Department for Transport (DfT) in central London. You're prepared to travel for between 30 and 60 minutes to get to it (any further and transport costs are too great). You've also got enough money to put a deposit on a house costing up to &pound;250,000. Where do you start looking?Previously, such a conundrum would have stumped everyone; instead you'd begin searching for properties in agreeable locations, and then try to figure out how easily you could reach your job. But a new version of the "Travel Time" maps - developed by the nonprofit group MySociety, funded by the Department for Transport and mashing together data from Transport for London, the open source mapping project OpenStreetMap, and the Land Registry - will tell you the answer in an instant: start looking in Lewisham, Stratford or Croydon.The answer comes from the interactive maps (mysociety.org/2007/more-travel-maps) that use Flash to animate the "reachable" regions. Another version of the map - though not interactive - looks at areas around Edinburgh for which it is faster to use public transport than to drive (by car) to reach its university in the centre. Yet another shows when it is faster to cycle than to take public transport to reach the DfT - which turns out to be almost everywhere in London apart from Putney and Wimbledon."Anyone who plays with these maps for 60 seconds can intuitively grasp their power for helping people to make major decisions about where to live and work," noted Tom Steinberg, the founder of MySociety, on their release.While the onlooker may think that creating the maps must have been the hard part, Steinberg, who "herded the cats" for the new project, notes that to extend it to other parts of the country, "the difficulty is, tediously enough, about licensing, not technology. There are several datasets and we'll have to approach all of the suppliers independently to have conversations about whether it is possible to license information for this strange purpose, and if so, how much money we'll have to spend." Organisations holding that data include Ordnance Survey (with Codepoint, its database of national grid locations), the DfT itself (with NaPTAN, its public transport network database) and Transport for London.Their common factor? All are government-owned organisations. Who would benefit from wider use of their data? Citizens and transport planners.The Free Our Data campaign suggests that this is the classic problem of erecting price barriers around public data. Making the datasets free for commercial reuse could bring widespread benefits, but a dogmatic approach to "cost recovery" focuses on the short term.Join the debate at the Free Our Data blogwww.freeourdata.org.uk/blog/
I regretted it as soon as I posted. Last week a Fox News report (tinyurl.com/326gcc) on the Xbox 360 game Mass Effect characterised the critically acclaimed sci-fi epic as a sexually explicit adventure filled with nudity. In a ludicrously partisan and ill-informed onslaught, a mature-rated title that involves a few seconds of bare flesh found itself referred to as "Luke Skywalker meets Debbie Does Dallas".A few days later I blogged about how gamers were taking out their frustration with Fox News by hitting the Amazon page of TV presenter Cooper Lawrence, who took part in the televised debate, and flooding the reviews section of her latest book with increasingly personal insults. I later deleted my story - there didn't seem to be any point in contributing to the mass of sneering blogs and forum posts, edging toward darker threats. The fact that Lawrence has now told the New York Times that she regretted her remarks should not - but probably will - add validity to the onslaught. Is the future of direct action by gamers set to be dictated by this revenge sortie? Surely there's another way. Fox News, after all, is the ringleader in this little circus, not Lawrence.EA did the right thing. Jeff Brown, vice-president of communications, sent a letter to Fox criticising its reckless treatment of the game, pointing out inaccuracies in the report and asking for the channel to correct the record. At the close of the week, Fox claimed that it had extended several invitations to EA to appear on Live Desk With Martha MacCallum, but that EA hadn't responded. The controversy lurches on.Videogames continue to explore ever more adult themes with ever more realistic representations of the human form; consequently, these confrontations are only likely to become more common. So how should gamers respond?Well, not like this. Fans need to learn the basics of activism in the corporate age. Two years ago, the US Entertainment Software Association formed the Video Game Voters Network to fight what it calls intrusive legislation and regulation against videogames. Members are urged to write to Congress whenever a state attempts to tighten controls on the games industry.What gamers need is an international association with a wider remit as a global media watchdog - an association that can advise on positive action. Gamers are in a demographic obsessively targeted by advertisers. They have clout. Complaining to TV networks, drawing alliances with publishers, gathering sustained, focused protest is the way ahead. Making childish attacks just confirms prejudices - it allows the continuation of an imagined world where social malaise really can be blamed on digital sex and violence.
A couple of weeks ago the co-founder of US developer Epic Games, famed for the groundbreaking Unreal series as well as Xbox 360 smash Gears of War, answeredyourquestions on this blog. Now Mark Rein is back, chatting about the future of user-generated content, the Xbox 360 version of UT3 and life at the demoractic republic of Epic...So, the reactions to UT3 on PlayStation 3 seem to have been very good...The reaction has been great. We just got a 5/5 review from Official PlayStation Magazine here in the USA! From what I've seen people are really liking the game and they should; it's a great game, and runs really well on PS3. Personally, I'm very pleased with the game - I've played it a lot on PS3. There seems to be a nice groundswell around the mods as well, which is really good because we're just scratching the surface of what we can do in that area in the long-term.What sort of mods are proving popular on PS3?Well, it's a little hard to tell as we've only had the tools out there for a few weeks, but there are some really great mods out there already. There's one that gives you an over-the-shoulder view, like you'd see in Gears of War; there's a vehicle mod which changes a lot of the capabilities of the vehicles. There's a mod where you get the hover board in Deathmatch and other modes, which I think is awesome, because I love using the hover board.Of course, there are all kinds of very cool custom maps as well. I played a map today that looks like a bedroom, and is scaled up to make you appear very small. This is a recreation of maps we've seen in previous Unreal Tournament generations. The trend at the beginning of any new Unreal Tournament generation is to recreated beloved things from the past, which is great fun. But I think people will soon figure out how to take advantage of the more powerful tools we have now and do some really amazing things.We're going to have a big mod contest starting soon and I think that will spur on innovation even more. We're hoping to have a category specifically for PS3 mods. PCs obviously have a lot more memory, so it is possible for a mod to be too big for the PS3, but all of our game levels run on both so we don't foresee that as a problem.Do you think people will start to develop mods specifically with PS3 in mind?Yes, I think they will. Some game types, and control perspective, lend themselves better to using a gamepad so I suspect we'll see some mods designed specifically for the PS3. The over-the-shoulder view mods have a lot more appeal on a console than on PC, in my opinion, because 3rd person games are so much more prevalent there.Is a version of UT3 editor ever possible on a console?No, it's just not practical. First of all, for many types of mods, you rely on more software than just the Unreal Editor - tools like modeling software (like 3D Studio Max) or bitmap editing software (like Photoshop). Secondly, the editor is a huge program that acts as a front-end to the game, so it eats up a lot of memory, storage and disc space. The memory on the PS3 is hard limited to 512Mb which isn't really enough to run the editor well.What about something along the lines of the map editor provided with, say, Timesplitters?Why would you do that when people can do anything they want with Unreal editor? The modding aspect of that type of editor is just a tiny fraction of what you can do with Unreal Tournament 3. If you want to take one of our maps, make a few changes, and move some stuff around, you can. I mean, we give you the sun, the moon and the earth to play with - they give you a tree.What's the future of user-generated content on console?The beautiful thing about user-generated content on a console is you know exactly what your target environment is. You know exactly what machine people have, what its capabilities are, how many polygons it can handle, how much memory it has, how fast it runs... so you can tune your game to be just right for that environment. You can really push it right to the edge. Whereas when you're making stuff for PC, the difference in performance from the lowest to the highest end machines requires you to work much harder if you're trying to address the full audience. Most mod makers don't aim for the middle, they aim for the top. They tend to be real gaming enthusiasts with higher-end PCs and they're testing their mods on those uber-machines. We love those guys!But what elements of the user-gen experience do you think will particularly appeal to a mainstream audience? Map editing? Character design?At the high-end, for things like people creating highly modified game experiences or completely new content, I don't see creation of user-generated content to be a mainstream activity. But playing and consuming that content could easily become that.At the other end of the spectrum, you have games like Halo 3 and Tiger Woods which let you make your own movies of your games and share them. Or you have the ability, in games like Rainbow Six Vegas and Tiger Woods, to put your face in the game, or in Forza Motorsport and Gran Turismo, to highly customize your vehicle. People who join you in games online are consuming your user-created content even if they aren't aware of it.Then you've got Unreal Tournament 3 where you can craft entirely new experiences for people. With Unreal, you can push it so far and be totally uninhibited; you can create your own weapons, your own vehicles, your own environments, change the way the game works, write your own code, use Kismet, our visual scripting tool, and create mutators. I mean, there's just so much you can do that might take a little expertise to pull off - yet no expertise, short of installing the mod, for other people to play and enjoy.Do I think there's going to be a user-generated content revolution? Yes, but it will be different things to different people. Right now, we're barely scratching the surface - we're just letting users trade little things they made over the internet. Later on we hope to do more with it, make content easier to find, make some of it more official - highlight the really great content and make it much easier to get it onto your machine ... so in the future, gamers who buy a game like this are hopefully going to be able to get a whole bunch of free, extra cool content - and hopefully, some of the guys who make that content will become developers further down the road. A lot of the guys here at Epic previously worked on mods.At some point, I'd like to work with the creators of some of the professional quality mods to help take them to the next level and work with us to build a marketplace where they can make some money off their content.What's the most surprising development you've seen from UT3 mod community?They all surprise me! I don't want to pick out just one as I'll go on the forums later and find 4000 people are mad at me. But honestly it's always surprising when I download a mod and see how much work and dedication has gone in to it. I think we're going to see the rise of websites that aggregate mods, show off the best ones, and let visitors rate and talk about them. There's a very good little UT3 PS3-related mod blog today at http://www.ut3mod.com/.Are you any closer to resolving the problem of getting user-gen content into the Xbox 360 version?Not yet but we're hopeful. Microsoft hasn't said "no" yet, but then they haven't said "yes" either. We need them to say "yes," and we need them to do it soon.So it's technically possible?Sure. I mean, you can go onto the console and copy your songs on to it and play movies off a memory card - the machine's capable of allowing you to transfer your content around, and even letting you play your music while playing many games.So why wouldn't Microsoft say yes? Is there a fear of losing control of Xbox Live?Well, yeah and we don't fault them for that. They've got a closed system where everything's checked, users know the quality of everything they download, and you know it won't crash your machine. User generated content - well, it can be dangerous, you could theoretically download a mod that uses too much memory and crashes your machine.I think Sony are real pioneers in this - I think they deserve a lot of credit for letting us do this. They're really doing something different, and it hints at what they want to do with the PlayStation Network in the future. They're definitely on the right track!If it doesn't work out with Xbox 360, depending on sales of the game on that platform, I imagine we'll find a few of the best mods and get them on Xbox Live Marketplace. I don't think 360 users are going to suffer drastically - they're just going to miss out on a lot of crazy, cool fun stuff and the ability to exchange it among themselves. They may also end up paying for content that is free on other systems because Microsoft now has to host it and certify it. But I'm confident Microsoft will look at what's happened with UT3 on the PS3 so far and think, 'Well, we'll take that baby step with you,' because what we've done so far really is just a baby step if you think about it. You've got to go online, you gotta download the mod, and you're responsible for putting it on your machine yourself. There are some exceptions - there are mutators, which modify how gameplay works, that are pretty small - and we let those auto download, but most of the other stuff you've got to go and say 'I'm going to install this on my machine.' We hope to change that in the future.So it really is the user knowing what he's doing. He's not accidentally going to a server which has this really horrific mod on it... and if you do find a horrific mod we have a way to make sure that people can't serve that mod for other users. I think we're going to do much more with the PS3 version - maybe have an easier way to download mods, a way to auto download some that have been approved, ideas like that. We're looking at ways of taking the mod scene and making it better and broader.The game is up and running on Xbox 360 - it has been for a long time, and its running wonderfully - it just doesn't have any Xbox Live written into it yet so that's the work that remains.Were you concerned about bringing an arena-based shooter into the console market where traditionally, narrative/exploration-based FPS titles have dominated?No, we recognise that there's a smaller market for multiplayer-focused games - but we love Unreal Tournament - and we have a real passion for it. It's so much fun to play, and the people who do play it are so passionate about it. So, why not? And we learned so much about making good controls with Gears of War that we decided we've got to do this game on console - we just needed to widen the market to make it worthwhile, from a business perspective. I was kind of shocked by how well it plays with the controller; we do support keyboard and mouse with PS3, but I never play it that way when I'm playing on PS3.What about the future of Unreal Tournament? Can you get many more games out of the arena-based formula?It's too early to tell. We're concentrating on UT3, and we still have some more stuff on the way for that.Downloads?Yes.Can you tell us what we can expect?Not yet.So what else is going on at Epic? What's Tim Sweeney up to?He's working on research for our next-generation engine.Oh yes, Unreal Engine 4?Yes, but it's a one-man research project at this point in time. There isn't a whole team working on it yet, and it will require a new generation of hardware to power it.Epic games seem to have quite a singular aesthetic - they have a sort of semi-industrial, semi-gothic look - and it's all very finely realised and detailed. Where does this come from? When you look at Gears of War and UT3, you can tell straightaway they're Epic titles...I think that's a bit of a coincidence. Really, when you look beyond the military characters - at the female characters, the robots, the aliens and the environments, they're really different.But there's something equally stylised and self-conscious about them...Well, Gears of War is very stylised... I suppose they both share the same art director, and a lot of the same artists worked on both games, but that doesn't mean we couldn't come up with a completely different look next time around.Do you see a future where Epic develops a game completely outside of the first- or even third-person shooter genres and just does something completely different?I don't see that happening in the short-term. I'd love to get a small team working on some cool stuff, but the problem is they get sucked in to the larger projects. A big game like UT3 has a certain amount of gravity and it just pulls people in. We love making shooters, and I'm certain there are still countless ways we can improve in that genre. We look at Gears of War and we see the pimples, we look at UT3 and think 'we should also do this, we should also try that, if only we had more time and more people, we could have done...' so I think we're continually looking at our own games and thinking there are lots of unfinished puzzles left to solve before we move on to something else.And, obviously, all game developers are constantly looking at each others' work for inspiration. There's still a lot of low hanging fruit in this genre - we need to pick some more of that.Do you mean in terms of graphics, gameplay..?Everything. Graphics, gameplay, multiplayer features, online support, interoperability between the game and, say, websites. We can always make a weapon feel that much cooler, always come up with a cooler weapon idea that people will love even more. You can always improve the look of a character a little bit, you can always make your environments look a little bigger and bolder, you can always get a little more performance out of the hardware.The really interesting thing is that Unreal Engine 3 performs a lot better now than it did when we shipped Gears of War, so that gives us more headroom. We're constantly improving. At GDC this year, we going to roll out some new improvements we're making to the engine - some new graphics techniques, new capabilities - most of them are still in development. But we're constantly getting better at using the technology we have.Traditionally the FPS was very much a strong point for PC, but now do you think consoles are catching up?I'm a real fan of the PC, but yes, consoles are definitely stealing a lot of hardcore gamers from the PC. When Call of Duty 4 came out, I heard some of our guys sitting around talking about the great game they'd had last night and I'm like, 'Hey guys, what server are you playing on? I'd love to come and join you,' and they said, 'Just send us a friends request,' It was at that point I realized they were all playing it on console. Plus, the sales of the console versions are something like ten times the sales of the PC versions.So how many people are working at Epic and how many on each title?Right now, we're around 95 people in total, I think. Team sizes are quite elastic - at times there were five or six people working on Gears of War; towards the end, we slammed 50 people onto it. I'd say the average team size for our games is about 30.How democratic is the development process?Everyone's opinion is heard. Anyone at the company can speak up about a game design or gameplay issue and they get heard. We have no shortage of good ideas. For example, with UT3 we would have loved to do more game modes, but the decision was made to concentrate on making the core game modes better. I think we accomplished that, and we've built a solid base to build on. I think this is the best UT game we've ever made. And now we, and the modding community, have a really strong base to work on for the future. So we've extended our democracy to the mod makers, and we're letting them help shape the future of this franchise through their creativity and talent.
I'm still waiting for Mark Rein to get back to me with some supplementary comments following our interview a couple of weeks ago. In the meantime, I got some questions to Epic Games AI programmer, Steve Polge, about the art of videogame artifical intelligence.Here's what he had to say.In what fundamental ways has game AI evolved over the last five years?As problems like basic pathfinding and navigation have become well solved in games, AI has evolved to cope with more and more complex situations. These include dynamic levels with destroyable or otherwise permanently alterable geometry, and more complex modes of locomotion such as vehicles with varying movement capabilities, as well as making better use of the 3D environment - for example, making effective use of cover.How do next generation console and PC architectures aid the AI programmer?The dramatic increases in computational power for modern consoles and PCs have been a boon, as we're finally at the point where there's a good bit of horsepower left over for AI. This allows the AI programmer to perform more computationally intensive tasks such as collision checks to discover information about the AI's environment, or add more expensive decision making into path finding.As we reduce the number of "shortcuts" we have to take to determine AI behaviour, it allows the AI to make more informed and more nuanced decisions. For example, an NPC in UT3 that is trying to reach a distant objective will assess multiple routes rather than just picking the shortest route. These routes are assessed based on a number of factors, including "risk", what other friendly NPCs are doing, complexity, etc.Game AI as opposed to straightforward AI is often seen as a game of smoke and mirrors - NPCs rarely have to carry out the sort of thought processes, the use of arbitrary data, etc that scientific AI programs are expected to cope with. Is that view out of date now, though? How close is your work on UT3 to AI work in scientific/research environments? Can you give me some examples?There are still quite fundamental differences between what's going on for the most part in academic AI research and AI implementation in games. The issue of getting information about your environment is far more complex for real-world AI than for game AI, and still contains many unsolved problems. We certainly apply knowledge that originated in AI research, but for the most part we aren't using the results of "cutting edge" research in AI.So what are the building blocks of good game AI?The AI needs to understand the rules, strategy, and tactics of the game as well as a player of similar skill level would. It needs to have a knowledge model about the game world and game state that is similar in limitations to what a player would know. For FPS games, it's also very important for the AI to have a human-like aiming model, with the same kinds of strengths and weaknesses in hitting targets under various conditions that would affect a human player. Finally, the AI needs to have flexible system for dealing with classes of interactive objects (such as vehicles and weapons) or problems. These are areas in which we believe we have made significant strides with UT3.Which are the toughest areas to get right?Making an NPC "feel" human, with the same kinds of reactions and limitations is definitely the most challenging problem for game AI.How about emergent behaviours? In what ways do your bots learn?One of the ways that UT3 bots learn during gameplay include dynamically adjusting the costs of the path network to reflect things like "killing zones". This allows them to learn areas to avoid because they are covered by a sniper, for example.Another key feature is the implementation of general systems for interacting with classes of objects. When I first got the Darkwalker up and running, I was really surprised to see bots jump in and start really effectively navigating around the level and sowing destruction with it, even though I hadn't written any custom AI for the vehicle, and it had very different attributes than any other vehicle in the game. There have also been quite a few cases during development of what seemed like bots cheating turning out to be bots effectively exploiting bugs in the game.Do UT3 bots 'see' the environment in the same way as players? I.e. do they have to navigate the landscape and rely on visual and audio clues to track down enemies? How advanced is this system?UT3 navigation is based on a pre-generated path network. As this path network doesn't cover 100% of the areas a bot may traverse, they also have to be able to perform localised assessment and navigation of the environment, which they sample for these purposes using collision traces, as well as inspection of nearby objects in the collision data structure.I've heard that the bots in UT3 have the intelligence of the average 16-year-old - how do you quantify that?It depends on what problem they are asked to solve. They do tend to stay on task better than many 16 year olds though :) .One element that usually differentiates humans from bot players in the FPS arena is random, habitual behaviours - humans sometimes just do illogical stuff, which might have little to do with actually winning a game (attempting to jump between certain platforms, getting attached to a specific weapon, etc). Can bots replicate this personality-led behaviour? How?We do have some of these features built into the UT3 AI. Traits like weapon preference, tactical awareness and aggressiveness are customized for different characters and affect the decision making process. We tend to be rather conservative about trying to make bots look "human" this way, because players will judge the AI as just being stupid. On more than one occasion, we've had one of our designers complain about how poorly the AI was playing in that level, not realizing that all his opponents were actually human.I once interviewedChris Heckerabout AI and he said the real skill with games programming was artificial stupidity as a truly intelligent bot would be almost impossible to defeat. Would you agree? Do you build fallibility into your bots?That's a great quote. Two areas where "artificial stupidity" is critical include NPC aiming and limiting knowledge of the game state (specifically knowledge about the location and capabilities of enemies not currently visible to the bot). Perfect aim is easy, but missing like a human player is hard. Also, making the bot's mental model of where a previously visible enemy might be seem plausible can also be quite challenging.What's the next stage for game AI? Are there new methods, theories and solutions on the horizon? Similarly, what cutting edge areas of scientific/university research AI are likely to filter across to games over the next five years?As AI gets better it allows us to explore new game scenarios and mechanics. For example, a game with a solid implementation of a robust speech recognition and synthesis system as an interface, and a compelling personality and motivation model for NPCs could have gameplay focused on determining the motivations of allies and opponents.
Huge swathes of the Middle East and Asia have been left without internet access after a vital undersea cable was damaged.A fault in the pipeline, which runs between Sicily and Egypt, has dramatically reduced access in countries including Saudi Arabia, Dubai and India, leaving millions of workers struggling to get online.It is not yet clear what is wrong with the undersea cable, but the effects are already being felt across the region. Reports from the Middle East suggest that most countries are almost completely without access to the internet, while authorities in Mumbai have said that more than half of India's bandwidth has been lost."There has been a 50 to 60% cut in bandwidth," Rajesh Charia, president of the Internet Service Providers' Association of India, told Reuters.The outage could have drastic impacts around the globe. Not only will the lack of connectivity strike the technology industry, including India's so-called Silicon City of Bangalore, but the banking industry is also likely to suffer as stock markets struggle to complete international trades.Despite the vast number of individuals who have access to the web, nearly all the internet's traffic is routed through a small number of cables submerged deep below the planet's sea beds.In 2003, net access in western Europe was hit by a fault in a cable running between the US and France, while communications in Asia were severely disrupted in 2006 by seismic activity.An earthquake measuring 7.1 on the Richter scale occurred off the coast of Taiwan, and damaged cables connecting South Korea, China, Japan and Singapore. As well as leaving two people dead, the outage severely reduced internet access and other communications for several days.
Following a drop in profits, Yahoo! says it will cut 1,000 (out of 14,300) jobs by mid-February and narrow its focus to its most important businesses. According toThe New York Times:Jerry Yang, the chief executive, warned investors of "head winds" this year. Yahoo's projections for revenue growth and profitability in 2008 were either at the low end of analysts' expectations or below them.Yahoo executives said those projections were largely independent of the slowdown in the United States economy, noting that it was too early to predict whether weakness in the financial, travel and housing sectors would hurt online advertising.Candidates for the chop include "photos, podcasts and a largely unsuccessful social network".
Bill Gates is in London today to meet with Gordon Brown, and while he's here there are a few other things in his diary. I've just come back from a speech he made at theInstitute of Directors, which was followed by a discussion.The speech was essentially a re-run of what he spoke about during hisCES keynote(which was itself a re-run of the previous year) but withoutSlashplaying guitar.The audience didn't seem to be that interested in Microsoft as a business, but more in Big Bill's increasing role as a philanthropist, activist and influencer. The discussion even turned to political ambitions when a member of the audience, Andrew Main Wilson, asked whether Bill would ever run for the Senate or even (ooh!) the US presidency.His answer was pretty unequivocal."I'm certainly not going to do it," he said. "I do work with politicians ... I enjoy doing that ... but my role is being full-time with the Foundation.""There's a lot of reform and improvement that, by being off on the side and working with governments and development agencies and filling our unique role, I think that's the highest impact. But running for an election, worrying about the next election? I don't think I'll get into that."It's a question that geeks throw out there fromtime to time, and given the current news agenda it's understandable that it arises - but frankly every time I hear it, the question seems increasingly bizarre. OK, so business billionaire Michael Bloomberg is mayor of New York (and there are long-running rumours that he could run as an independent presidential candidate) but anyone who has spent any time following Gates will realise how unlikely it is that he could acquire the charisma or easiness of manner to carry any sort of political career.Doesn't the mere suggestion prove how insulated the biz-geek bubble can be from the real world?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Yahoo has confirmed that it will cut 1,000 staff as part of a restructure, signifying the biggest job cull since the dotcom crash seven years ago.The Silicon Valley firm said its profits for the last quarter of 2007 fell to $206m (£103m) - down 23% from the same period a year earlier - and warned growth would be slow in 2008 as the company continued to refocus.Yahoo gave little details about which jobs in its 14,300-strong workforce would be cut, but they are expected to be in low priority, non-technical areas while the company focuses on personalised advertising and developer tools.The company's co-founder and chief executive, Jerry Yang, said that despite facing the "headwinds" of 2008, Yahoo would end the year stronger and more competitive after a series of "game-changing" moves."We are not tinkering around the edges. We are making significant, and what we believe are game-changing, investments in Yahoo's future," he told analysts.Yang said that "executing aggressively" its priorities would help Yahoo capture a growing share of the online advertising market.The company has continually struggled to keep up with Google, which still dominates the search market with a 58% share of search traffic in the US. Yahoo has a 23% share.Yahoo has been promising investors a company turnaround since last year, when Terry Semel was replaced as chief executive by Yang.Last night's results look unlikely to console those investors, with revenue predicted to be below expectations for the year and Yahoo shares at their lowest point for four years.Investors are also worried by the faltering US economy, which would be likely to impact the advertising industry.The Yahoo president, Susan Decker, said that finance, travel and retail could be weak areas for display ads, but would be offset by growth in other areas.Decker added that Yahoo's display revenues had actually grown 20% in the past six months of 2007 and that search advertising revenues had risen by 30% year on year.Speaking at Davos last week, the European head of Google, Nikesh Arora, said the company would be immune to economic downturn because of the growth in online advertising.Recent research by advertising agency Group M predicted that online advertising revenues would climb 30.8% this year in the UK and overtake TV spend next year.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
MySpace is to launch its own developer platform next week, offering tools that will enable external companies to build games, content-sharing and communication features for the site.The MySpace Developer Programme, which launches on Tuesday, February 5, will work with a set of industry-wide standards called OpenSocial, an initiative set up by Google so that developers can build tools that work across a number of sites.Facebook was praised for opening up its site to developers in May last year, creating an ecosystem of small businesses that feed off the site.The social networking site's Facebook Platform now supports just under 15,000 applications including video players, quizzes and messaging tools.Developers were building unofficial skins and widgets for MySpace before Facebook launched its official platform, but the site often appeared uncomfortable with third-party tools and blocked several widgets.Music site Imeem and video-sharing site Revver were among those blocked from MySpace for breaking a condition that widgets must not "engage in commercial activity".The new, official developer programme has built on MySpace's early experience with widgets, while taking on board lessons from how Facebook has had to deal with issues of privacy, copyright and how to make money out of them.Facebook game Scrabulous was recently the subject of a high-profile takedown notice over the trademarked Scrabble game.MySpace plans to offer a formal revenue share to developers, rather than allowing them to place their own adverts on their application page as Facebook does.Full details will be announced at the launch on Tuesday from MySpace's new office in San Francisco.The platform is expected to allow developers access to information from users' profiles that will allow them to tailor their applications.Amit Kapur, the new MySpace chief operating officer, will oversee rollout of the developer platform in 28 countries.The site will launch application tools first and later announce a date when MySpace users will be able to add the applications to their profile pages.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Asustek Computeris a giant PC manufacturer, and the most important thing about the success of the Eee PC is that it has given it a global presence it couldn't get simply by knocking out millions of motherboards and cheap laptops for other companies. Now it's planning to use that presence "to launch a family of Eee products including: E-DT (desktop PC), E-TV and E-Monitor," says Taiwan'sDigiTimes. It says:The E-Monitor will be an all-in-one device similar to Apple's iMac and Dell's XPS One. E-Monitor will cut into the 19-21-inch market and will come with a built-in TV tuner. Pricing is set at US$499, compared to the iMac's price of US$1,199-2,299 and the XPS One's price of US$1,499-2,399. E-Monitor will also be based on Intel's Shelton'08 platform [with Diamondville processors and the 945GC chipset] and will be launched in September this year.Not everyone is convinced. CNet Asia blogger Jonathan Gardner, based in Taiwan, describes the Eee PC as "crapulent" and, inhis comment on the DigiTimes story, says:The PC market is on a downward spiral. TVs are basically a commodity now (except for those wanting to go hi-end with the Bravia, et al). Further, competing solely on price, as the CEO says they're doing, may pump up short-term revenue but is a recipe for disaster down the road.Taiwan companies in general have two options: Remain entrenched in the OEM/ODM market and compete on price or aim for the hi-end. Cheapening oneself by being known as a vendor of low-cost products is no way to build a brand. And that's exactly what Asustek needs to do: Build the Eee brand. By no means is the mark ubiquitous enough to be relying on a cheap brand expansion.Another point (mine, not Gardner's) is that the Eee PC has novelty value today that it won't have tomorrow, when there will be a dozen similar machines available, many of them better than the Asus. Hundreds of companies can knock out machines that more or less follow the IntelClassmate PCdesign. If they wanted, Acer, Samsung, Sony and others could do it with more flair, and do it in the high street, too.
Officials at mobile operator O2 have insisted that only a tiny minority of customers are hacking their iPhones to run on rival networks.Exclusive deals signed between Apple and its mobile partners around the world mean that iPhones are locked into operating on particular networks. Dedicated hackers, however, have come up with a number of "jailbreak" programs that allow users to unlock their iPhones and use them on other providers' systems.But one senior executive at the network said that "really very good" numbers of customers were choosing to stick with O2 instead of switching to Vodafone, T-Mobile or Orange.Steve Alder, O2's iPhone director, told the Guardian that he had seen only very small numbers of customers deliberately avoid going onto one of the company's 18-month iPhone contracts.Improved tariffs"We're not sure whether there's a difference in the American market or whether it's because the iPhone came out there first, but we're seeing a really very good conversion rate of people walking out of the shop with the phone and signing up to O2," said Alder, speaking after the companyannounced yesterdaythat it would bump up the value of  iPhone tariffs in the UK."It is not an issue," he added.His statement is at odds with some anecdotal evidence, however, with some experts suggesting that jailbreaking is rife among Britain's estimated 200,000 iPhone owners."My own experience of meeting iPhone owners in the UK is that the handset is almost always unlocked, except where the bill is being paid for by their company,"wroteMike Butcher, editor of technology news website Techcrunch UK. "You can get better deals than the ones on offer from O2, hence the incentive to unlock the thing."American defectorsThe numbers of unlocked iPhones being sold in America has already caused concern among analysts there, with up to a quarter of users choosing to switch provider.Apple financial documents revealed that it had sold 3.7m iPhones by the end of 2007, but numbers from AT&amp;T – Apple's exclusive American partner - suggested it had only signed up 2 million users. Part of the 1.7m shortfall can be accounted for by the launch of the handset in Europe - which took place last November – and AT&amp;T is believed to have nearly 500,000 phones stockpiled.Those figures still leave around 1m "missing" handsets, however, which experts suggest could have been bought in the US and shipped elsewhere in the world before being unlocked. If so, this raises the question of whether Apple was wise to forge exclusive deals and only launch the iPhone in a few territories, said one researcher."Besides the financial implications, we believe the prevalence of unlocked iPhones presents a significant strategic dilemma to Apple," wrote Toni Sacconaghi, a Bernstein Research analyst, in a report published on Monday.
The cost of sending a text message and accessing the mobile internet looks as if it will fall dramatically for business travellers and holidaymakers who use their phones and mobile devices abroad.At a meeting of European telecom regulators today, Ofcom boss Ed Richards will call for urgent action to reduce roaming charges for texting and data services such as the mobile internet. He will also raise concerns about hidden charges faced by mobile phone users when they make a call from other European countries.Over 200bn text messages were sent across western Europe last year and the Mobile Data Association estimates that more than a billion are sent every week by British users. But while the average cost of sending a text in Britain is 5.6p "the cost of sending a text from abroad looks high," according to Richards, at an average of 21p despite there being "very low marginal cost" for the telecom companies.Accessing the mobile internet also appears disproportionately expensive. The average price of 1MB of mobile data - roughly enough to view up to 200 mobile web pages - is about &pound;1.50. Yet the average price charged by British operators for using data roaming services within Europe last summer was &pound;4.11 per MB, higher than the European average of &euro;5.24 (&pound;3.90)."These prices represent a significant price hurdle to the use of mobile internet while abroad," Richards said in a briefing document ahead of today's meeting of the European Regulators Group (ERG). "My biggest concern is the effect on businesses which increasingly depend on mobile connectivity."One of Europe's largest mobile phone players, Vodafone, for instance, charges &pound;95 a month for unlimited mobile broadband access across Europe. Last week Telef&oacute;nica, which owns O2, reduced its data roaming charges by about 40% to &euro;50 a month though it has a much stricter fair usage policy than Vodafone. It also dropped the cost of sending a text home from anywhere in the EU by 49% to a maximum of 32 eurocents plus VAT.Such moves by industry are likely to be too little, too late. The ERG will today consider what moves individual country regulators must take in order to get prices lower, or whether the matter should be referred to the European commission which can impose an EU-wide settlement.After a fierce battle with the industry, European telecoms commissioner Viviane Reding last year forced through price cuts of up to 70% in the cost of making a call overseas. Under the new price caps, UK mobile phone operators cannot charge more than 38p a minute to make a call in Europe. But the price caps did not include either texts or mobile data roaming charges. Europe's main mobile phone companies are understood to be trying to thrash out a deal to reduce the price they charge each other to carry roaming data traffic across their networks. Similar moves to reduce the wholesale price of voice calls failed, leading to Reding's intervention, but the industry hopes this time a reduction in wholesale prices will result in a drop in the retail price that consumers pay, preventing another regulatory intervention. There is speculation that a deal will be announced at next month's Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, where Reding is due to speak.Pricing problems remain in voice roaming. Recent ERG research shows that many mobile phone companies still charge their customers a one-off connection fee when they make a call overseas, which adds  20% on average to a consumer's bill. Richards wants Europe's regulators to take action to stop what he calls "the 20% hidden charge".
Most people I know gave up on the increasingly ludicrous Lost a long time ago but I've committed so many hours that I'm loath to give up on the TV show just yet. But when it came to the videogame adaptation I couldn't have been less interested and was fully expecting a cheapo tie-in, probably with a polar bear or two. So the recent unveiling of the game in London was a pleasant surprise. Not only did the game look great, fully capturing the spirit of the show - "Previously on Lost" before each level etc - but the gameplay brought back pleasant memories of what used to be known as action adventures. Actually, they probably still are but you rarely get the right mix these days, with action usually winning out over adventuring (see Uncharted: Drakes Fortune for example). So Lost's mix of puzzling and item management looks set to bring a warm nostalgic glow to Monkey Island veterans as well as some welcome variety to the increasingly raucous next-gen catalogue.My hands-on saw me fiddling through the plane wreckage on the beach and playing a flashback scene with Locke. Ubisoft were overly keen to stress the heavy involvement ofJJ Abramsand the other producers of the show and Lost fans will probably play it for the storyline alone. You play another passenger from the plane with the game cleverly intertwined with key events from the first two series. Of course, a presentation and 30 mins hands-on is hardly enough time to get a real feel of the game, but first impressions suggest Lost is shaping up nicely. Excited then? Or is Lost the game for fans of the TV show only?
The internet firm Yahoo revealed a decline in profits last night and warned that it faces continuing "headwinds" despite efforts by its new management to kick-start its fortunes.Yahoo has been losing ground to Google in internet searches and younger web users have turned to social networking sites such as Facebook and MySpace.Fourth-quarter earnings fell 24% to $205m (&pound;103m) - the eighth successive  drop - and full-year profits fell 13% to $660m. "While we continue to face headwinds this year, we believe that the moves we are making will help us exit 2008 stronger and more competitive," said chief executive Jerry Yang.Yahoo is expected to cut up to 7% of its 14,000-strong workforce. Its shares fell 10% in after-hours trading.
Mobile network O2 has overhauled the cost of using Apple's iPhone handset, less than three months after it went on sale amid complaints that it was too expensive.The company announced yesterday that iPhone owners would get a substantially improved package, prompting some speculation that sales of the &pound;269 gadget could be flagging.The new deal will give the majority of Britain's iPhone users - who have signed an 18-month contract costing them &pound;35 each month - three times more free calls and text messages. Other users will also see a substantial increase in benefits, while O2 also introduced a new &pound;75 tier aimed at high-spending customers.O2's spokesman, Steve Alder, said that the changes were merely an adjustment, and that they did not signal anything about overall iPhone sales. "These things take time to organise. This is not a reaction to anything we're concerned about," he said. "We're very happy with the kind of customers, and the number of customers that we're getting."O2 won exclusive British rights to the gadget after a vicious battle with other mobile phone operators. Its deal with Apple is thought to involve handing over a significant percentage of its revenues from iPhone contracts to the Californian technology company.But recent media reports have indicated that the tactic may backfire on O2, with suggestions that sales have not lived up to expectations.American network AT&amp;T - which has the rights to the iPhone in the US - is estimated to have lost out on profits from hundreds of thousands of sales, with many customers "jailbreaking" their handset to use it with a different network.Alder would not reveal how many iPhones have been sold in the UK, but said that targets had been met and denied unlocking - changing the network - was a major problem in Britain.Earlier this month Apple's chief executive, Steve Jobs, said that 4m iPhones had been shipped worldwide since the gadget first went on sale in the US last summer. But shares in the company were rocked when its financial results indicated that growth could be levelling off.
Picked up fromValleywag
Skyfire has just announced a private beta version of a new browser that supports the full web -- Ajax, Flash. QuickTime, Java etc -- on a mobile phone. Users will be able to watch YouTube videos and see MySpace pages in all their beauty -- though the last bit isn't part of the demo in the video above.According toEngadget(where I found the video): "all of this is accomplished with some server side magic on the part of the Skyfire server but is completely transparent to the user".The browser currently runs on Windows Mobile 5 and 6 with Symbian/Series 60 support coming soon.Of course, it does assume that you also have a decent Internet connection on your mobile. The demo is done using Sprint's EV-DO.And while the beta version of Skyfire is free, this does not guarantee that the final service will not require some sort of payment. SkyFire has to make money somewhere.
