You would think that understanding technology - information technology at least - would be close to MPs' hearts. After all, the ID card bill, whose essential element relies on disparate technologies such as biometrics and databases working perfectly together, has absorbed much of this parliament's time.Prime minister Tony Blair has championed e-government and launched several multimillion-pound IT projects. But some, such as the individual learning accounts, have collapsed under the weight of fraud, while many elements of the &pound;6bn NHS IT programme are up to a year late or not accepted by the doctors for whom they were designed. All those projects need informed scrutiny by MPs.Yet most MPs and peers seem to shun IT. A small number - about 20 to 30, most of whom have IT experience as users or suppliers - fret about this lack of engagement, so much so that the Parliamentary Information Technology Committee (Pitcom) debated "why MPs and peers do not care about IT" earlier this year.Richard Allan, Liberal Democrat spokesman for technology until last May and now head of government affairs at Cisco, describes a confusion among ex-colleagues: on one side the government ascribes miraculous properties to IT for providing better government services, while simultaneously cutting 100,000 civil service jobs.Most MPs used to accept these miracles trustingly. But now, says Allan, they are starting to see the reality of public-sector computer disasters: billions wasted and lousy service. And they associate IT with illegal or anti-social activity: terrorism, paedophilia and spam. MPs now have a sense of impotence and, Allan claims, become dangerously passive when faced with complex IT legislation.Bits and bytesHe agrees it is not necessary for all MPs dealing with IT bills to know about bits and bytes: "MPs are good at being briefed on subjects they know nothing about and becoming instant experts." But a few IT-literates are needed to advise the IT-challenged on the risks of projects.Merlin Erroll (the Earl of Erroll, a hereditary cross-bench peer) is the founder of telephony company VoiceXchange and the most vocal IT champion in the House of Lords. He puts it more forcibly: "If no members of either house know anything about IT, then bureaucrats will take control of our lives, or pretend they can do things they can't."Ian Taylor, the Conservative minister of technology in the Department of Trade and Industry from 1994-97, says when he was in office only a few ministerial colleagues could be briefed properly on his plans to nurture the new cable companies in the face of a dominant BT. He had to seek allies from technically minded MPs in the space committee and the IT lobbying group Eurim.His background was in merchant banking and exposure to IT "erratic". He is living proof that previous IT experience is not essential for a minister. What is needed, says Taylor, is the "ability to grasp the implications of IT and the drive to realise the opportunities". By early 1997 his drive helped launch IT projects for business, education, public awareness and government.direct, the first initiative to replace paper forms with on-screen versions.When Blair came to power a few months later, he adopted almost all the projects and became the first prime minister to be a vociferous champion of the information society, though freely admitting he was computer illiterate. Taylor finds the government "more comfortable with technical issues than we were but less coordinated or business-like in applying the opportunities". Of the ministers who succeeded him at the DTI, "no one has gripped the subject" except Stephen Timms, who was an IT consultant and then helped goad the country into adopting broadband. He became financial secretary to the Treasury and is now minister of state for pensions.Erroll points to a reticence among parliamentarians to display their IT prowess: "They do not like to appear as introverted anoraks." So some MPs with respectable IT credentials often do not parade them by taking part in debates on bills with a high IT content, or being active on the all-party groups like Pitcom, Eurim or APIG (All-Party Internet Group), which aim to alert MPs to the political and regulatory impact of new technologies.Brian White, who was chairman of Eurim but lost his seat in last year's election, says: "You can lose votes by people's perception of you as a nerd. People get spotted as ministerial material for knowing about topical subjects like climate change but not techie stuff." Taylor claims gloomily: "I am the only person in the Tory party who sees understanding of IT policy as a necessary qualification for political advancement."Is the thin red line of IT champions effective in challenging ministers and bureaucrats? MPs and peers have several ways of influencing government. A flood of questions can make ministers sit up, as witnessed when rural MPs bombarded ministers with complaints that broadband had not reached their area.The pressure groups' finest hour was before the Communications Act of 2002, which established Ofcom. At the suggestion of Pitcom and Eurim, a joint committee of both houses, chaired by Lord (David) Puttnam, the film director, carried out a "pre-legislative scrutiny" of the bill, taking hearings from the IT and broadcasting industries. For the first time, written evidence was submitted by email. This scrutiny saved an estimated 100 hours of parliamentary time. Wyatt claims it also created the best regulatory framework in Europe for the media and telecommunications industries.Whether the mass of MPs read or understand all the reports churned out by the all-party groups is not clear. Allan believes MPs "need a new language for the dialogue between technologists and decision-makers". As well as technical stuff, expressed in plain English, this dialogue should include answers to the questions "can it be delivered?" and "will it change the culture of those it affects?" Allan wants the House of Commons library to produce this "technical assessment" as part of the explanatory "bundle" of papers, which MPs receive before a bill is read in parliament. These technical assessments should be comprehensible and brief but above all non-partisan.Unconvincing evidenceThe debates on the ID card bill demonstrated the need for better non-partisan briefing. Erroll, who spoke in the Lords' debates, sensed his fellow peers found the government's cost and technical briefings too short and unconvincing and were swayed by the only other technical assessment at hand, the detailed London School of Economics report, which rubbished the government's cost estimates and much of the technology used. As a result, the Lords have thrown out the bill twice. In the Commons, too, Allan found many were swayed by the LSE report. But they were more swayed by the party whips and not rebellious enough to throw out the bill.The IT champions were split. Most were in favour of ID cards in principle but unhappy about the technology, particularly the biometrics. Some preferred systems adopted by other countries. One Conservative MP thought his party's line was confused and that much of the technology will already have been introduced for passports and would be well-proven by 2012 when the ID card is to be introduced.However, the ID card bill might yet prove a tipping point - the stage when MPs stopped being passive about IT, and started to take a harder look at the billions being spent on it.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The decision by Bafta - the British Academy of Film and Television Art - to make computer games its "third arm" is overdue endorsement of a genre that has struggled for artistic recognition.For years sales of video games have surpassed the films with which they have been converging as movies, such as Lord of the Rings, embrace computer animation and increasingly realistic games tell interactive stories. British games developers - many reared on the Sinclair Spectrum and BBC B in the 1980s - are world leaders in their craft even though ownership of most companies has slipped abroad.Recognition by Bafta will reignite the "Yes, but is it art?" debate that generates such publicity for the Turner prize and has been discussed at length on the Guardian's gamesblog. Debate about whether the lack of such factors as authorship or emotional involvement might disqualify games as art brought confessions from bloggers about how they had blubbed over Final Fantasy VII or Beyond Good and Evil. Computer graphics now, whether the realism of London's streets in The Getaway or the mesmeric landscapes of the multi-player online game World of Warcraft, are quite stunning. They get 10 out of 10 for technical ability. They score less for artistic merit only because the genre has yet to extricate itself from a formulaic shoot-'em-up and role-playing image. If recognition by Bafta helps the industry to, well, raise its game then it will soon be accepted as art without dispute.
Toca Race Driver 3PlayStation 2, Xbox, PC, &pound;34.99,Codemasters4/5Codemasters may seem to be "doing an EA" by releasing regular makeovers of their Toca or McRae games but the strategy is very different. There's the usual updated engine, names, cars and circuits, but in the two years since Toca 2, the volume of content has doubled. So that's 35 racing styles and 100-plus championship events, from monster trucks, to rallying, muscle, classic and touring cars. Most handle beautifully and it's nice to see loopholes fixed - corner-cutters are hit with time penalties and an improved damage model will see you retired early in spectacular style. Gran Turismo offers a bigger choice of cars, but for the widest variety of pro-racing thrills, Toca 3 is in a class of its own.Mike AnderieszDungeons &amp; Dragons Online: StormreachOnline, &pound;29.99 (&pound;10 a month), Atari/Turbine3/5If games were scored on geekiness then Stormreach would come top. But get over this and you'll find a polished experience that offers a change of pace to the likes of World of Warcraft. This is no epic virtual world, though. The action takes place in smaller areas created exclusively for you and your team. What it lacks in virtual tourism is compensated for by a deeper plot as you explore the dungeons and develop your character. Skills are learnt by solving puzzles and planning ahead, though combat is still important. Teamplay is the key, but finding a decent group can become a quest in itself. This, and the monthly fee when the similar Guild Wars is free, are the main downsides.Greg HowsonMarc Ecko's Getting Up: Contents Under PressurePlayStation 2, Xbox, PC, &pound;39.99, The Collective/Atari2/5Hiding behind the cumbersome name, this game strives to innovate but fails. It scores points for its graffiti-bombing lifestyle theme - surely tailor-made for a videogame - and pleases by not ramming the T-shirts purveyed by its creator down your throat. You play an aspiring graffiti artist in the dystopian city New Radius, heavily influenced by the rundown early 80s New York from whence graffiti and hip-hop culture emerged. Its gameplay mixes brawling, clambering about and tagging, but the latter is dull in its execution and the fighting nowhere near as satisfying as that in Rockstar Games' The Warriors. Despite the virtual presence of graffiti superstars like Futura 2000 and voice talent like Brittany Murphy, Getting Up is all style and no substance.Steve Boxer
It depends. If you open enough of it up, then certainly. However, mystery surrounds the claim made on a ZDNet blog that a Mac mini that is online (seehttp://tinyurl.com/mcdcd) and offering user logins to all and sundry was taken over by a hacker called "gwerdna", who said the machine was "easy pickings" and that becoming the superuser (or "root") had taken about 30 minutes, using "unpublished exploits - of which there are a lot for Mac OSX" (http://tinyurl.com/qmefr).Except ... the box's owner hasn't confirmed it happened. And the situation is unusual, because not many people wander around asking everyone to hack into their computer. As one Slashdot poster noted, it's the computing equivalent of locking someone in your basement to see if they can get access to your house. In OS X, it's known you can.However, Dave Schroeder, a systems administrator at Wisconsin University, set up a challenge athttp://test.doit.wisc.edu/- also running on a Mac mini. But he isn't giving away user accounts. The challenge (to alter the page) ends tomorrow; at the time of writing, the page was unedited. This test is more like most hacking attacks coming via a network - the equivalent of challenging a burglar to break into a house.But just as we saw, a few weeks ago, a rash of malware for Mac OS X (http://tinyurl.com/pkldh), so this week has brought three tales of OS X security challenges. The third is the most interesting: according to a Security Focus News article from last month (http://tinyurl.com/q9vu8), a security researcher at the ShmooCon hacker conference in January found his Powerbook running OS X had had its firewall disabled and a file server set up - on a machine that had been "hardened" against hacking . The researcher suggested that an as-yet undocumented weakness in OS X was used - yet confusingly told Security Focus News that "this was not a subtle hack".Perhaps that's because the hacker boasted about the hack to a researcher's friends, using data from the computer. It's also possible the exploit was fixed in Apple's latest security update, issued on March 1, which closed a number of holes (http://tinyurl.com/p3vot). But we'll probably never know.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Last weekend, while the Fabulous got out their frocks and Jimmy Choos to prance up the red carpet, games movies were walking a different plank. Adaptations from interactive entertainment were sharing dubious honours with Bewitched and Son of the Mask at this year's Golden Raspberry Awards, a tribute that has celebrated other terrible achievements in cinema such as Spice World, Showgirls and, er, Tomb Raider.Something tells me game adapters are doing something wrong. Every time a computer game movie is foisted on the public it gets nominated for the least-coveted award in southern California.Entertainment is in a rut that holds the movie business as the pinnacle of success. To "make it", other forms of media must bring their offerings to the thrones of movie makers and allow their superior products to be Hollywood-ised beyond recognition. This undermines the elements that each medium contributes to entertainment as a whole.Things are shifting. Taking a cue from the bullish trend of the games industry and the popularity of social software, the future is interactivity. Games have the potential to change consumption and creation of traditional media. They have demonstrated there are ways to engage, enlighten and entertain by drawing consumers into a world, and allowing them to play with what's there.Movie makers will have to let go of control if they want to keep bums on seats rather than thumbs on PlayStations. Promisingly, one insider shares this view. James Cameron has been experimental in his approach to directing blockbusters and promoting unique formats and technologies. He threw himself into Imax, stretched underwater filming techniques with The Abyss and plans to shoot all his future films in 3D. He's also been closely involved with computer games and recently announced a project that will combine massively multiplayer online gaming (MMOG) with a movie.The online game will be released first, generating an international fanbase that will contribute to ideas, characters and plot. Cameron can then mine this rich resource for silver-screen adaptation. While details are sketchy, the ideal scenario is the film will fill in plot points in the game and movies will take into consideration plot and character progression created between film releases.If this interactive product isn't used solely as a marketing tool, it might establish a template for game-related film adaptations. The phenomenal success of the World of Warcraft has brought the genre to the attention of traditional media bods; here's hoping they do something interesting with it. Then the geeks will be wearing the Jimmy Choos, blowing raspberries at the Fabulous.
Spray-on mud unstuckI operatewww.sprayonmud.com, which was featured in the Guardian last year and around the world. Google gave us top ranking for sprayonmud until December, then suddenly wiped us from their radar, and our sales have fallen dramatically as a result. How does one redress this?Colin Dowse, Sprayonmud LimitedJack Schofield replies:Your site has incoming links from high-ranking sites such as the BBC, the Guardian, Wired etc, so it should show up well. However, searching Google for your address brings the response: "Sorry, no information is available for the URLwww.sprayonmud.com". Since Google does not offer to show you its cache of the site, your pages must have been removed and this could only have been done deliberately. Usually this happens only if a site uses underhand "search engine optimisation" (SEO) techniques such as keyword-stuffed doorway pages, deceptive redirects and spam blogs. For details, see the Google advice page:www.google.com/webmasters/seo.html.First, you need to find out what you have done wrong, if anything, and correct it. Second, you must emailhelp@google.comwith the subject line "reinclusion request" with a brief description of the problem. You will get an automated response but it is possible that your site will be restored eventually.Google recently removed BMW Germany from its index for using redirection code so that search engines saw a different, text-heavy page atbmw.defrom the one seen by users, as explained by Google's Matt Cutts (http://tinyurl.com/cgufu). But BMW was soon restored. It is harder for the many small firms who must now depend on Google's search results for their survival, especially since Google is the police force, sole witness, judge, jury, court of appeal and executioner.I therefore asked Google UK one simple question on your behalf: "How can he find out what, if anything, he has done wrong?" I will let you know if I get an answer.Desktop replacement?I am about to replace an old desktop PC. Is there a good reason to buy another desktop rather than a notebook?Michael PattenJS:Buying a desktop PC will usually get you a faster computer with a bigger hard drive and better graphics, keyboard, screen and speakers, and far better cursor control (via a mouse) for less money than a notebook PC. It will also be more expandable, which could be useful if you need to add more disk drives or upgrade the graphics card. However, the price and performance gaps have narrowed a lot in the past couple of years, thanks to the arrival of cheap (but not very portable) "desktop replacement" notebooks, and the switch to using more expensive flat screens with desktop PCs instead of bulky monitors. But I would still recommend a desktop PC for serious use because notebooks have poor ergonomics. After I switched to using notebooks instead of desktops last year, I became unable to raise my right arm and needed physiotherapy at a significant cost. You can develop arm and back problems using a desktop PC, too, of course, but notebooks encourage bad posture and your health may suffer.Language learningI am about to retire and would like to learn a programming language both for fun and practical purposes. The question is, which one?John WhiteheadJS:One powerful and comprehensive programming system is now available as a free download: Microsoft Visual Basic 2005 Express Edition. The site athttp://msdn.microsoft.com/vstudio/express/vb/will walk you through its capabilities and it is also supported by a Coding4Fun site (http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/). However, the minimum installation is 500MB, and a full installation takes up 1.3GB, including programming libraries and Microsoft's SQL Server 2005 database.At the other extreme, there's Squeak: "a modern, open-source, highly portable, fast and full-featured implementation" of the object-oriented Smalltalk language. It is available for Windows, Mac OS and Unix/Linux, OS/2 Warp and RiscOS. The Windows download is just under 15MB.There's a good list of free languages atwww.danish-shareware.dk/progsoft/progsoft.html, including Euphoria.Backchat&#183;Neil Budgen asked for a notebook PC that would survive his motorcycling. Mike Hickman, a sales manager with Itronix in the US, responds: "You mentioned only our VR-1 semi-rugged machine. Our GoBook III, left, is tougher than the ubiquitous Panasonic Toughbook CF-29 and is more powerful (1.8GHz Pentium M vs. 1.4GHz Pentium M). In fairness I should mention that Panasonic is also in the semi-rugged game."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
According to a presentation to analysts, as "a world with infinite storage, bandwidth and CPU power" where users' experience of the net "should really be instantaneous". Best of all, as a world where Google "get[s] all the world's information, not just some."Google reckons it should be able to "store 100% of user data", which means "all user files, including: emails, web history, pictures, bookmarks, etc and make it accessible from anywhere (any device, any platform, etc)". In the meantime, you may well be able to store whatever you like in your online Gdrive - unannounced, but hinted at.Google presented that sort of picture at its annual Analysts Day briefing, held at the Googleplex in Mountain View, California last Thursday. The quotations come not from the speakers, because the media were not invited. However, Google kindly posted a copy of the PowerPoint presentations on its website, overlooking the speakers' notes, from which the above comments were taken.The PPT file was quickly withdrawn and replaced with a PDF version - curiously, without notes - but not soon enough to stop Greg "Geeking with Greg" Linden and other bloggers from reconstructing them.The slides and notes revealed some unannounced products, such as Gdrive and Lighthouse, though what Lighthouse does is anyone's guess. But the vision of a world with Google at its centre, storing all the world's information - not just the web-based bit - is more than somewhat arresting.To be clear, Google was indicating a direction, rather than outlining a plan. But chief executive Eric Schmidt said Google would become a $100 billion company, compared with last year's turnover of $6.1 billion. Being bigger than IBM is today - bigger than Intel and Microsoft combined - could give Google the power, and the confidence, to have a go.Still, storing all the world's data would certainly be a challenge for Google, which hasn't yet managed to store a whole copy of the internet. And while consumers might appreciate having somewhere to store their spare copies of copyright violations involving Britney Spears, it would be a greater challenge to get businesses and governments to give Google all their data, too.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
No warning of copy protection on CDsI have the new EMI disc of Simon Rattle's new recording of Schubert's Symphony No 9 (Protection racket, March 2). It plays fine on a CD player but I cannot transfer it to my iPod. It looks as though EMI is now putting copy protection on some classical CDs. There is, however, no warning on the documentation.Francis ClarkeSwansea&#183;I've had a big problem with Dido's Life For Rent, which I bought for my daughter for Christmas. It wouldn't work with the MP3 player she was given and Sony-BMG has not given me a replacement CD. If this is how they treat customers, they don't deserve my custom. I've put up a webpage of my experiences (http://tinyurl.com/zdvcu).David HembrowCambridge&#183;The biggest scam with digital music downloads is that the companies do not reveal the bit-rates used. However, most are far inferior to CD quality music.Steve BoltonFleet, Hampshire&#183;I am one of the consumers the recording industry would like - well paid with disposable income and I enjoy music. I will not buy a CD (or anything) that has DRM embedded therein. CDs are a luxury item. If the record labels wish to make it harder for themselves, that's their choice.Peter SmithCottenhamEnigma not so secureIn the article on the Enigma machine (Newly asked questions, March 2), the claim is made that its only cryptographic weakness is that it cannot encrypt a letter to itself. That's far from the case. In fact, by any modern definition of "secure", the Enigma is very insecure.For example, a cipher must be able to withstand an attack where the attacker knows some of the plaintext and the corresponding ciphertext - in second world war terminology, when a "crib" is known. With even a relatively small crib, the Enigma is extremely weak and easily broken on a modern PC. The thing that makes the attack described in the article so challenging is that there is no crib and the message is extremely short. A lot of weak ciphers (including many classic pen-and-paper systems) are difficult to break under such circumstances.Mark StampSan Jose State University&#183;Enigma simulations are available free of charge atwww.bletchleycovers.com. This is the site of Bletchley Park Post Office, the secret mail room for wartime code breakers. Last year, Britain's secret little post office produced an Anglo-American first-day cover with the US Postal Service to commemorate the work of US Navy Waves (Women Appointed for Voluntary Emergency Service) and the Women's Royal Naval Service on cracking the Enigma code. It exhibited this at the American Philatelic Society Stampshow in Michigan.Terry MitchellBletchleyOrigami onslaughtI reckon this means the Origami story (Newly asked questions, March 2) has gone from one post to mass media coverage worldwide in seven days. Even Google has Origami Microsoft as a search suggestion for Origami. That is some return on the marketing investment.http://charliem.wordpress.comSecond-hand scandalJoanna Anthony (Letters, March 2) wonders how Amazon can get away with bypassing copyright holders by selling discounted Marketplace books next to full-price copies. It's worse. I was in a shop selling nothing but cut-price "second-hand" books that didn't pay the publisher a penny.Theodore HongCambridgeJoin the partyI've come to dislike Bebo, the social networking site (Show and tell online, March 2). There are too many people on it realising it's a good thing. When nobody knew about it, Bebo was cool.http://insertspacehere.blogspot.comHow have you missed out on the daddy of all websites:www.faceparty.co.uk?Kieran KellyLondon(We repeatedly tried to contact Faceparty but it did not respond - ed.)
At the end of next month, but there's a catch: it will be built in to a portable Toshiba Qosmio G30 Core Duo-based PC that costs about &pound;2,000. Nice, if you can afford it. But there's no need to rush, because there aren't any high definition HD DVD movies to play on it."This is more of a future-proofing option for the consumer," says Andy Bass, director and general manager of Toshiba Information Systems UK. In other words, G30 buyers will be HD DVD-ready when films are released, with the first ones appearing "in the April/May time-frame".The first films might even be launched alongside a consumer-style HD DVD player, but if so, that's a different part of Toshiba and not Bass's problem.Either way, the G30 shows that you can put an HD DVD drive in a laptop, if anyone seriously doubted it. It shows you can run movies via its HDMI interface on an external HDTV screen, as well as on its own better-than-HD-quality 1920 x 1200 pixel LCD screen, with Dolby home theatre sound. And the picture quality is impressive, being identical to Sony Blu-ray movies. (Both systems use the same sound and video codecs.)Toshiba may find HD DVD a tough sell because it uses DVD-style discs and a DVD-compatible player, with the main difference being the not-very-visible switch from a red to a blue laser. This increases the disc's storage capacity from 4.7GB to 15GB or, on a dual-layer disc, 30GB, without greatly increasing the cost, Toshiba claims.But Sony may find Blu-ray an even tougher sell, when that arrives, because then someone will have to explain why you need to replace all your DVD production lines, at great expense, to introduce a new system that delivers identical sound and picture quality to HD DVD.Oscar Koenders, Toshiba's European head of marketing, claims HD DVD will be first to market and cheaper than Blu-ray, but he also wants to explain why Toshiba is "so passionate about the HD DVD standard". That's because it has been adapted and adopted by the DVD Forum, just like the original DVD."The DVD Forum has never reviewed the Blu-ray standard, because it wasn't allowed to," he says. "And we can't allow somebody to stand up and say 'we don't care about industry standards'."Of course, we love standards. As the old joke says, that's why we have so many of them.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I have the attention span of a particularly inattentive gnat when it comes to games. I can't count the number of times I've been gagging with anticipation for a game, only to install it and then find I can't make head nor tail of the keyboard control combos.Yeah, I know, the keyboard movement controls are WASD (forward, left, backwards, right). So far, so straightforward. I can do that bit. But I'm too easily put off by tricky camera angles and knowing which key to hit to pick up a gun.Let's start with the viewpoint. I like a third-person view, even for shooting aliens, and it drives me nuts that I can't select that in most games. I hate the first-person shooter view.And what if you want to use a game controller instead of the keyboard? Games like the Grand Theft Auto series work best with a controller but I have yet to find a gamepad that works as well as the PlayStation 2 controller does on the PlayStation version of the games.How do I access my inventory? Do I roll the scrollwheel on the mouse? Do I cycle through my choice of nail guns, axes and plasma shooters with the tab key? Do I click the left or the right mouse button?And let's talk about camera angles. Some are just too sensitive: I never got out of the 'hood in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas because the way the camera lurched wildly at the merest breath of air by the mouse made me feel sick.As for tutorials - aren't they long? The perfect tutorial for me is one that quickly trots you around the controls for moving, crouching, jumping, picking up things and hurting people. I don't want endless artfully cut scenes explaining the origins of the story.If I get past the tutorial, then there's the head-up display - HUD - to contend with. Coloured bars showing mana, health, the health of your opponent, the speed at which your vehicle is going, how much ammo you have left, how visible you are if you're creeping around in the dark, your reputation with the area you're in ... Please, less is so much more when it comes to the HUD.Not that everyone agrees: there are more mods available to adapt the HUD for World of Warcraft than I've had free PR T-shirts.You can, of course, take things a little too far in the other direction. Peter Jackson's King Kong has no HUD at all, which means you can admire the gorgeousness of the landscape but have no idea if you are about to expire until suddenly it all goes red and you're dumped at the beginning of the level.Anyone for chess?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
"The closed beta is ongoing with about 200 participants - people involved are not allowed to invite outsiders to see the calendar and are under strict rules not to share any details with outsiders. Based on feedback I am getting, CL2 is a long way away from launch," reportsTechCrunch.The post says "CL2 is closely, very closely, integrated with Gmail" and adds: "It's also clear from the event creation functionality that Google is is going to attempt to aggregate events like eventful and zvents do now. If they combine their event creation feature with a web crawl and parsing of event data (exactly what zvents does), they will be able to create a very large events database."Comment: So far there areabout a dozen similar Ajax calendars, but to rival the power of Microsoft Outlook requires integration between the calendar, email, address book and other related applications. So Gcal is going to get used by the people who use Gmail, almost regardless of merit. That's going to apply to the calendars in all three of the live portals currently under construction by GYM, or Google, Yahoo and Microsoft.
It's time to chat.
I'm speaking toShigeru Miyamotonext week, which is nice. The Mario/Zelda creator is in London to discuss Animal Crossing. Or so he thinks - I fully intend to get his thoughts on the Rev, Twilight Princess and the wider gaming market (if you are a Nintendo PR person, please disregard the last sentence - ta). Miyamoto is famously reticent about spilling any kind of bean but I'm hoping the PR smokescreen will clear enough to get something interesting out of it.And guess what - you can help. If you've got anything you want me to ask Miyamoto please stick it in the comments. Considering the focus is supposed to be on Animal Crossing it would be handy if you could remember this when phrasing your questions, even if you want to find out something totally different. That way we may get him talking. So, for example. Tom Nook is the big retail presence in Animal Crossing - if he relocated his store to London when would he be stocking the Revolution and how many bells would it cost? Alternatively just let me know what you want asked and I'll see what I can do.
In an exciting day for videogame awards ceremonies (see Aleks' post below), Future has announced that this year's Golden Joystick Awards will be televised on ITV4. The event, which is in its 24th year, will take place on Friday October 24 at the Park Lane Hilton - so now you know where to go if you'd like to be seen on TV screaming with excitement as videogame luminaries stroll down the red carpet, perhaps handing your mobile phone to Peter Molyneux...In its press release, Future has promised some high profile media partners, but there's no word yet on a presenter. Any suggestions?
Ray Ozzie, Microsoft's chief technology officer, introduced Live Clipboard during his speech at this week's O'Reilly Emerging Technology (ETech) conference in San Diego --rough transcript here. Ozzie remembered how DOS users benefited from the ability to cut and paste between what were essentially single-tasking applications using the clipboard. Web sites are roughly equivalent to single tasking applications, so Ray got the Windows Live team working on ways to cut and paste between Web sites.Sure, we can cut and paste text string fragments from here to there, but the excitement on the web these days is all about "structured data" such as Contacts and Profiles, Events and Calendars, and Shopping Carts and Receipts, etc.Ozzie has written about the idea on hisMSN Spaces blog, and there'sa screencast of a Live Clipboard demo, anda simple web page-based demo. The Live Clipboard web control is a DHTML control, and the practical info ishere. There's also a discussion at:LIVE-CLIP@DISCUSS.MICROSOFT.COM. Ozzie adds:There are quite a few key influencers attending ETech, and it's my aspiration that many of them, and many of you, will embrace this nascent technique, and "make it real" by working with us. The goal is to create a standard that works across many different scenarios, many different types of websites, and many different PC-based applications. In the same vein as Simple Sharing Extensions, we're releasing our work under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike license.There are somephotos of the talkon Flickr.
TheBritish Academy of Film and Television Artsannounced today that computer games are to be the "third arm" of the organisation, elevating interactive entertainment to the same status as the traditional entertainment media. This should sock it tocriticswho claim that games are a lesser art form.From the release:The growing importance of video games to entertainment culture has been recognised by the British Academy of Film and Television Arts (BAFTA), which has elevated the sector to become an equal to those for Film and Television. Champions of the moving image, BAFTA seeks to reward artistic and creative innovation within video games, as one of the principle contemporary art forms.This newly defined status means The British Academy Video Games Awards are set to confirm their position as the most independent and valued awards in this arena. The British Academy Video Games Awards move to October to be positioned as the climax to London Games Week, a new set of major industry and consumer events set to be a highlight of the European gaming calendar.While this is move represents the critical step towards industry acceptance of computer games as an entertainment medium of value, there are still plenty of hurdles to leap. Indeed, I have said in the past that games developers need to at least address theemotionalpotentialof the content. To be fair, games really are still in theEd Woodera of their development: the technology is there, but the content still lacks the subtlety and the variety that could make them truly great.
It's in Japanese, but that adds to the fun...
This morning The Mirror finally got round to becoming angry about Atari's graffiti adventure, Getting Up: Contents Under Pressure. In ashort story, noticeably lacking in the sort of spittle-streaked rage usually reserved for videogame controversies the reporter notes:"A new computer game with a thuggish graffiti artist 'hero' sparked a row yesterday. A character named Trane plasters a city using aerosols, marker pens, stickers, posters, stencils and paint. He kicks, punches and uses weapons on anyone trying to stop him."All pretty accurate so far. The story goes on to quote a selection of pertinent commentators, the best of which is MP Julian Lewis who shrieks, "The problem is bad enough without commercially minded idiots trying to make it worse."Atari PR chap Lee Kirton then makes a half-hearted defence. "There is a warning saying graffiti is unacceptable," he points out helpfully, later suggesting (I hope only semi-seriously), "It is keeping graffiti artists off the streets". There you go, it isn't irresponsible it's effectively a public service. What next? 'Charles Clarke's ASBO: Louts Under Restraint'?
A question for you. How many cyclists would you guess were prosecuted last year for going through red lights? Four thousand ... 400 ... 40? I don't believe in deferred gratification, so I'll tell you: the answer is four. Imagine being one of those four who got collared: given the frequency with which cyclists do run red, you'd be thinking to yourself, "Jeez, what are the odds against that?"And you have to wonder what kind of flagrant violation the four must have perpetrated to excite the interest of a police officer. Were they also naked and letting off fireworks as they breezed through the traffic signals?A few weeks ago, I wrote a piece about cyclists and red lights, in which I argued that we cyclists need to put our own house in order: if we want to be treated with respect by other road users, we should start earning it. One way, I said, would be for cyclists to get tested and be licensed. OK, this was silly (please don't write and tell me so again), but I also mentioned a much better initiative. A group of parents at my daughter's primary school were planning a campaign to stop cyclists running a red light near the school, where four children had recently been knocked over - by cyclists. Which gives the lie to the notion that it's a victimless crime.The school's week of action has just happened, and it was a huge success. It had the support of both the local cycling campaign and the police. Stickers were handed out, homemade placards were waved, Vauxhall MP Kate Hoey came along, and an ITN news crew covered it. So, for 20 minutes every morning for a week, many of the 60% of cyclists who had been riding through the red light were successfully, if temporarily, re-educated.But the beauty of this little story is that it doesn't end here. The owner of an independent bike shop in York called Cycle Heaven read about the Lambeth parents (many of whom are cyclists themselves) and realised it was exactly what he'd been wanting to do.In a matter of weeks, Andy Shrimpton has mustered the support of the Bicycle Association, the Association of Cycle Traders and the sustainable transport charity Sustrans for his nationwide initiative: "Stop at red".People are encouraged to visit the campaign's website,stopatred.org, to sign the online pledge. "If we think we're such good citizens by choosing to cycle (and, dammit, we are), why can't we extend our civicmindedness to our behaviour on the streets?" asks Shrimpton.Grassroots citizen action: you can't beat it. So wouldn't it be nice if the official membership organisations - the Cyclists Touring Club, British Cycling and London Cycling Campaign - saw fit to join it?
ModelPorsche Cayman SPrice&pound;43,930Top speed171mphAcceleration0-62mph in 5.4 secsConsumption26.6mpg combinedEmissions254 g/kmAt the wheelMurray WalkerThey'd rather walkPeter O'SullevanOn the stereoClassic FMEn route forLeatherheadIf the 80s had never happened, a person could drive a Porsche with something closer to an easy mind. But I've checked on the internet, and, alas, the 80s did happen, which makes it hard to thunder about in one of these immaculately constructed, slope-winged sports cars without some baggage trailing behind you, clattering like tin cans tied to a newlyweds' taxi.In the 80s boom, the Porsche dealership was the first trinket-stop for cashed-up City boys and record business executives on lucky streaks. A token of an alienating hedonism, it was the equivalent of driving a huge, upraised fist, in which was clutched a thick wad of notes. Nothing said you couldn't care less quite like a Porsche. Long after the last champagne fountain went flat, the effects of that unasked-for association still linger. Some cars simply offend people on sight. You don't even need to cut anybody up or pull out in front of them. You only have to sit there, innocently, at a junction. You can even be parked. A Porsche is one of these. There exist no up-to-date statistics to help us define the car most likely to be keyed, but I would hazard that the Porsche 911 Carrera is right up there, closely followed by the Porsche 911 Targa, the Porsche Boxster, and so on down the range.The closest a Porsche gets to spreading joy is via schadenfreude. I stalled mine at some lights and, as I fumbled embarrassedly for the ignition, I checked my rear-view mirror. If I had been in almost any other car, the driver behind would have been leaning on the horn at this point. But the fact that I had cocked up in a Porsche seemed to bring him only pleasure, and an expansive sense that sometimes the world does indeed work out very nicely.But here's a radical thought: what if owning a Porsche didn't mean you were a tosser at all? Might it not be time to forgive and forget? And would it take more than the right kind of advertising campaign? If Skoda can entirely sponge away its image as a supplier of loose-screwed communist crates, surely Porsche can be released from the burdensome yoke of tosserdom?For, whatever else one might think, these are extraordinary cars. They ought to be getting good at it by now. Porsche has been making sports cars for roughly a million years now (well, 75), and nearly all of them have been the same car, or slight variations thereon. It's like Mr Kipling only doing Bakewells. You would expect a pretty well-thought-through Bakewell by now.When Porsche did lose concentration and branched out recently, the result was the Cayenne, a giant strutting turkey of a 4x4 and without doubt one of the most preposterous vehicles on the road that isn't actually a street-cleaning device. Chastened, one hopes, the team went straight back to sports cars.And what they came up with was the Cayman S. It falls between the Boxster, which is up to &pound;10,000 cheaper, and the 911, anything up to &pound;80,000 more, and represents a blend of the two models. It has more of the 911's athleticism than the Boxster has, but none of the fun that comes with the Boxster's detachable roof. It seats two people in leather-enriched comfort and can manage a few bits of luggage, under boot and bonnet, but it's a car for people who are less interested in touring than in tuning, the niceties of handling, grip and balance and the performance from its 3.4-litre engine and six-speed gearbox.All of which, of course, are brilliantly polished. The Cayman is as stable as a motorised brick, and goes round needle-sharp corners shouting, "Am I bothered, though?" The brake pedal is so minutely responsive it should probably be working in counselling. It's a rare car in which braking is at least as thrilling as accelerating.We only had a couple of days with our Cayman, so we took it to Surrey, where we figured it would feel at ease and might even know its way around. It certainly seemed to hug the road like an old friend. At one point we flashed past the gate to Chelsea's training complex at Cobham. Was it coincidence? Or did the Porsche instinctively head in that direction, the way that whales find their way across hundreds of miles of ocean to their breeding grounds?Of course, had we but followed the Cayman's twitching nose into the players' car park, it might have been demonstrated for us that, these days, the big money-splashers go for Bentley Continentals and American trucks with tinted windows and not for Porsches at all. Which would at least leave Porsche to reclaim a lost image as the manufacturer of the preferred transport for informed lovers of quality, the way the company used to be, and would perhaps have remained, if it wasn't for the 80s in between.
A word of advice - don't let a baby near your Xbox Live headset, the plasticky peripheral is easy to snap. Oh, and don't playTrauma Center: Under the Knifeon the go. The DS game isn't out in the UK till next month but anyone who has imported the stitch-em-up medical title will know that steady hands are a prerequisite. Bumpy trains combined with condescending looks from fellow passengers are not conducive to life-saving surgery. I tried this morning and it wasn't fun - a bit like when I playedOperationin the back of car all those years ago. Yes, it's that frustrating. Stay still though and Trauma Center is highly enjoyable - another one of those quirky DS gems that make the handheld such a delight. Any other gaming related advice?
Racism isn't only aWorld ofWarcraft issue.Joystiqand theFinancial Timesreport that South Korean players of mega-online game Lineage are ganging up on people they suspect to be Chinese because they view them as "greedy" and "rude".Spinning off from the view that most online game sweatshop workers come from China, some South Korean gamers are blocking Chinese IP addresses and committing violent massacres on people they suspect are Chinese "because they can't speak Korean".Morehere.
In the US,CNBChas shown Intel's Ultra Mobile PC prototype, and confirmed that "real" versions will be unveiled at CeBIT in Germany on Thursday.What Is Newhas a transcript that will probably encourage you to skip it. However, Microsoft bloggerRobert Scobleadds that "Channel 9 will have almost an hour with Origami's architect, Otto Berkes. I hear I should be able to post that video at about 3am" on Thursday. That could be interesting....
Regular readers will know that I support Southampton FC. So, at the moment, I've essentially given up on the beautiful game and am looking forward to a promotion push next season (oh, and Portsmouth going down) Relevance to Gamesblog you say? Well,Football Managerwill be arriving on Xbox 360 and PSP in the next few weeks and I've had a chat with Miles Jacobson of developers Sports Interactive.My initial thoughts from a recent play are that both versions have something to offer. The PSP version in particular works very well, with the controls as intuitive as could be expected. The 360 version didn't disappoint either, even when shown on a 14" portable TV, with the online mode looking set to offer something unique to Live fans who may be tired of shooting each other. But what did Miles have to say when I spoke to him about FM, hard-drives and developing for console players?What have been the main challenges bringing FM to Xbox 360 and PSP?Both have had very different challenges. With the Xbox 360, it was mainly "screen" related, as in what you see on the screen. We started development on a cheap 14" TV, as if we could get the text easily readable on that, then we could on anything, and thankfully succeeded.With the PSP, the much smaller than we're used to amount of memory was a problem, but the game was designed with that in mind. It's been designed specifically for the PSP, as handheld gaming is very different to PC gaming, so it will appeal not only to existing players, but also people who've maybe been overwhelmed by our games in the past.FM is the first HD only game for 360. There are obvious technical reasons behind this, but are you concerned about losing sales and a PR battle?I didn't know there was a PR battle going on! As for sales, of course it will potentially harm sales, as people without a hard-drive won't be purchasing the game, but it's something that we've known about for a long time, and we'd rather the game was on the platform than not. In my opinion, it's not going to effect sales much.Would you have rather Microsoft had included the Hard Drive as standard in the 360?From a purely selfish commercial view based around our game being hard drive only, yes. However, I fully understand and support their reasons for having the console available without one. I would urge everyone to get a hard drive though, not just for Football Manager, but for Hexic as well, which is brilliant, and also hard drive only currently I believe.The PSP version is particularly appealing - did you feel you had to compromise on the FM vision to make a game that was playable on the move?There were things that we had a different outlook on, due to the smaller screen, smaller memory and lack of keyboard, but the vision of the most in-depth and accurate football management game on the platform is the same as the vision for all of our games.Generalising but console owners tend to prefer immediacy and smart graphics - FM has neither of these. Why will it appeal to them?Because Gameplay &gt; Polygons.Do you have high hopes for the 360 online mode?Very much so. It's changed some of views on online gaming, and everyone who has tried it out so far seem to think it's great. I can't wait to be playing the game through Xbox Live, particularly as I'll have a finished game a few days before it's in the shops, so I've got time to build up a great team for my beloved Watford before my friends get their paws on it.Football Manager has a committed userbase - how do you answer some of their fears that FM will "dumb down" to go on the consoles?The Xbox 360 version has the same feature set as the PC and Mac versions, expect for a different network play mode. It's actually got a new feature as well (a different way of displaying player stats). So I don't think we can be accused of dumbing down anything. The PC will remain our primary development platform, but ideas come from SI as a whole, so the Xbox 360 team have as much say as the PC team when it comes to new features. The plan is for the games to have the same feature set, but no features will be rejected because they can't happen on one platform or another.Do you think that the people who will but 360 and handheld will be new FM players or PC owners migrating to the new formats?FM Handheld will be new players, old players, and current players, with next to no "migration" as the games are quite different. With FM on Xbox 360, I think people with slower PC's might migrate, but will mainly be people who play console games rather than PC ones, and will hopefully enjoy the entertainment that we have to offer them.Can you explain how the hell Watford are doing so well please?The only explanation that I have is that Aidy Boothroyd is doing one hell of a job! I didn't give him much of a chance at first, and I still don't like the way that Ray Lewington, much of the team and the staff were sacked, but Aidy is our own "special one" and I hope we can keep hold of him for a long time to come.
Please, discuss.
The effort tobreak three previously-uncracked codes generated by a German Enigma machineduring the Second World War has yielded its second success: see ithere. Except that it looks likea string of rubbishGerman with no spaces - part of the fun of trying to comprehend messages sent by the military for the military.Update:the text is givenhere.Even so, it means that this message (the third of the trio) has been broken in just four days. Now only the first remains to be cracked, and with the number of people contributing their time leaping upwards, surely it won't be long before we get an answer to just what that submarine was doing in November in the north Atlantic. Up to no good, probably. You can see some nice graphs of how the search is goinghereorhere(the first looks better, though both use the same stats).Meanwhile we also had an interesting comment from Mark Stamp, who is based at San Jose State University, explainingThe Enigma machine has an enormous keyspace, so a true brute force attack is out of the question, even today. The point is that shortcut attacks exist and, by modern standards, are relatively painless. To put it in some perspective, if you give me an Enigma encrypted message and I know (or can guess with reasonable probability) a crib of, say, 20 letter, there is an attack that requires work roughly equivalent to a brute force attack on a cipher with a 29 bit key. For comparison, DES has a 56 bit key, and brute force attacks have succeeded on DES. Also, each additional bit doubles the brute force work, so the time to brute force a DES key is roughly the square of the time it takes to run this shortcut attack on Enigma.Btw, the number above are for the standard 3 rotor Enigma, not the 4 rotor naval Enigma (which was used to encrypt the wether report that was broken, as described in the article). However, the work factor for the equivalent shortcut attack on the 4 rotor Enigma is not massively larger.It comes down to a fundamental flaw in the Enigma design which essentially allows the attacker to split the stecker (plugboard) from the rotors.I've written a textbook on information security which has quite a bit of crypto in it (and if you read the back cover you'll discover that I've done cryptanalysis for a super-secret government agency). I'm currently working on another textbook focused on cryptanalysis. One chapter of this new book covers the "big machines" of WWII, namely, Enigma,Purple, andSigaba.
Ah, the fear that surrounds new communication technologies. Indeed, if all the hype was to be believed, you wouldn't be able to log on to your webmail account without being harassed by predators and do-wrongers. Well, in the case of my inbox, I suppose that's not far from the truth.Still, when you combine the current vilified medium - computer games - with ICTs, you get horrified news reports explaining in hushed tones what they only half-understand. Indeed, the all-ages-friendly Nintendo DS is the latest in the courtroom of the public consciousness, in Philadelphia at least.Gamepoliticsreports that a Philly national news affiliate reported that a little girl had been potentially harassed by an unknown individual with a lewd name while innocently PictoChatting (or communicating with other folks via a combination of written word and doodles). Much to her horror, she was pressed for personal information by this stranger, but cleverly she terminated the communication and notified her mother.According to the news feature, the DS is no longer safe. An internet security expert was called in. She had this to say:"Predators are using Nintendo DS anywhere in the world," said Dunn. "And it's going to be really hard to track down those individuals because of course, they're on a wireless network from a hotspot such as a coffee shop. Or if they're in a wireless environment, say a coffee shop or whatever, they jump on the wireless network so now you have predators who are trying to get at our kids."Unfortunately, a little fact-checking would have not gone amiss; PictoChat does not require the WiFi connection. Instead, people communicate with other users who also have their DS enabled within 65 feet. Yes, thisisfrightening in other ways, but not ways which were correctly reported.The intrepid reporters at GP do a jolly good deconstruction of this case, concluding:Although Action News apparently did ignore key information in order to present a more sensational story, at the end of the day, a little girl was harassed by another Pictochat user. Is it a concern? Yes. Is it a very likely event? No. Did Nintendo - cognizant of its generally younger customer demographic - take significant steps to prevent harassment? Yes. Did Action News report any of this? No.An excellent summary describing a one-sided piece. But we can only expect more of this kind of thing as DS and other handheld connectivity becomes possiblenationwide, and sensational storywriters ignore such safety precautions as Friend Codes. See GamerDad's explanationhere, whilst reading his version of the GamePolitics story.I was recently in the US when there was a kerfuffle aboutMySpace.com, the social networking service for young people and promotional space for up-and-coming bands. The "diplomatic" US media demanded that the service be terminated because there were rumours of "grooming". We've seen this before, of course, withMSNand evenXbox Live.At aseminarthe other day, thespeakersuggested that the MySpace issue was an example of parental fear of being excluded from a closed community. Sure, heaven only knows what might go on behind PictoChat doors, but hysterical reactions tend to focus on the negative rather than looking at the positive. Furthermore, as GP indicates, they often ignore the extraordinary security work that companies undertake to ensure the privacy and safety of their users. It is possible. For an established case study, check out theinformationon the security for Disney's Toontown Online, a MMOG for kids.
Sony CEO Howard Stringer has apparently admitted in aninterview with Variety Magazinethat the PS3 launch will be delayed until Christmas. Buried at the lower end of a long piece covering Stringer's career so far with the consumer electronics giant, patient readers discover the following paragraph:"Sony's new PlayStation 3 was widely expected to be introduced this spring, but will be delayed as the company fine-tunes the chips that are crucial to the success of the console's Blu-ray function."It's not a direct quote, but that hasn't stopped internet pundits jumping all over it as conclusive proof. As it is, Winter 2006 would certainly give the Blu-ray partners time to iron out those last minute specification issues, which Gamesblog has been informed, are mostly to do with the format's encryption technologies. Perhaps Sony has been waiting to see how these discussions progressed before committing to an official announcement.So, Xbox 360 is set to enjoy another six months alone in the next generation. Meanwhile, PlayStation fans may need to take a wary glance at that long-term PS2 release schedule...
Forget the idea that being good at computer games is a sign of a misspent youth. If millions of Japanese are to be believed, it is the secret to a happy and healthy old age as millions of them take up brain training, the country's latest computer game craze that is due to arrive in Britain by the summer.Designed by a prominent neuroscientist, Brain Training for Adults, a package of cerebral workouts aimed at the over-45s by the Japanese game console and software maker Nintendo, is said to improve mental agility and even slow the onset of dementia and Alzheimer's disease.Players have to complete puzzles as quickly and accurately as possible, including reading literary classics aloud, doing simple arithmetic, drawing, and responding rapidly to deceptively easy teasers using voice-recognition software. The player's "brain age" is then determined. A physically fit, yet cerebrally past-it 30-year-old might be told after his first few attempts that his brain is into its 50s; a retired woman could, over time, end up with a brain age 20 years her junior.The challenge, to reduce one's brain age, is proving addictive among Japan's baby boomers, many of whom say their only contact with game consoles was limited to bemused glances over the shoulders of grandchildren.Targeting grey gamers is proving a smart move by Nintendo as software makers try to wean themselves off the shrinking teen market. About 20% of Japan's 127 million people are 65 and older, and the number is expected to rise to almost 30% by 2025. More than 3.3m of the games have been sold in Japan since they went on sale in May, with the second package in the series selling 500,000 units in the first week.The first in the English-language series of games, Brain Age, is due for its US release on April 17, followed by Big Brain Academy in May. The games are expected to go on sale in Europe in June.In Britain, Nintendo is reportedly gearing up for a &pound;2m advertising campaign that will include adverts in Saga magazine, and promotions through Mensa. The game is expected to feature all of the exercises popular in Japan, as well as the sudoku number puzzle.The game's success has taken even its maker by surprise. Soaring demand is behind Nintendo's struggle to produce enough of its new dual-screen DS game consoles. A new batch is not expected in shops for two weeks.Brain Age (known in Japan as Brain Training) was part-developed by Ryuta Kawashima, a 46-year-old professor of neuroscience at Tohoku University, who has spent years studying the possible cerebral benefits of solving straightforward mathematical and other problems. His series of No o Kotaeru (brain training) books, first published in 2003, quickly became bestsellers, and were followed by a glut of TV shows and board games all extolling the supposed virtues of regular mental workouts.Some commentators say that Japan's elderly people have seized on the fun and easy-to-use consoles to confront fears that without mental, as well as physical, well-being, they can expect to spend their twilight years miserable and lonely. "The idea of training the brain gives us hope," Rika Kayama, a psychiatrist, told the Asahi Shimbun newspaper. "I think many of us are overly frightened of getting old, or even refuse to admit it."Prof Kawashima says he has proof that a few minutes every day spent exercising a particular part of the brain brings improvements. During research he captured images of various brain functions and found the organ functions better when confronted with simple calculations than when multi-tasking during a conventional computer game.In his learning therapy experiments, he claims to have seen marked improvements in people with dementia who are set simple mental tasks that require them to use the prefrontal cortex to restore brain function. "In future, those with Alzheimer's disease may not have to take drugs to delay the symptoms if they keep up with the learning therapy," he said during a recent interview.Brain Age-equipped consoles are even available in waiting rooms and wards of several hospitals, including Uchida hospital in Kyoto, which runs a memory loss clinic for people with dementia. "The game won't cure dementia, but it's a good form of stimulation, especially for old people living alone," Takeshi Kihara, a neuropsychiatrist at the hospital, told the Associated Press.Some researchers are sceptical. "There's not a single study that they can rely on showing this," said Torkel Klingberg, a neuroscientist at the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm. His research has shown that training "working memory" - like remembering phone numbers for a short time - can bring benefits. But he added: "That doesn't mean every kind of cognitive activity improves the brain in some kind of general way."Another problem is whether the training helps with other tasks. "You might get better at sudoku, but you don't get better at much else," said Guy Claxton, a learning expert at Bristol University. "This has kind of been swept under the carpet by people who sell intelligence-improving devices."Exercise your mind ...Mozart, sudoku, chess, a good book, a walk, a good sleep - all are claimed to help turn your brain from jumble to genius, but which ones work?Memory tasksTorkel Klingberg and his team at the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm gave 50 children five weeks training on either easy or hard "working memory" tasks - such as memorising phone numbers for short periods. Only the tough training brought a general improvement in attention and problem solving. But the training has to be intensive and prolonged, he said.Routine changeSome researchers suggest tricking your brain with a new routine improves cognitive abilities, for example by brushing your teeth with the "wrong" hand or by taking a different route to work. There's no evidence this actually works. "Is it enough of a challenge to give you a training effect? That's a totally open question," said Prof Klingberg.Playing the violinOne study of nearly 500 Americans aged over 75 found playing a musical instrument, reading, board games and dancing were associated with a reduced risk of dementia. The study recorded each subject's activities over five years and associated their leisure time with whether they developed Alzheimer's and other forms of dementia. Only regular, intensive activities were beneficial.ExerciseA stint in the gym can boost your brain as well as biceps. Studies suggest walking for half an hour three times a week boosts mental abilities such as abstract reasoning by 15%.MozartOne famous study suggested Mozart boosts mental abilities - even rats find their way around a maze faster. But not all follow-up studies have replicated the effect. It seems the benefit, if there is one, is due to the relaxing and stimulating effects of music. People who feel better perform better in mental tasks.
TheOrigami Portal(yes, there is one) reckons it has pics of one of the forthcoming mini-Tablet PCs that might be shown at CeBIT. It says: "If this is the actual final product, it's pretty slick. And if it's not, it's a very nice mockup. The pic we have received shows a device that looks thinner than the ones shown in the Digital Kitchen video. And the UI is definitely some new handheld OS."Comment:This looks like Windows Vista rather than XP, which might imply a launch closer to Christmas. It should also be Embedded Vista, rather than the standard version. (The Xbox uses Embedded NT.) So, although previous experience suggests almost all leaked product pics are PhotoShopped fakes, if this is one, it was done by someone pretty sharp....
"Gaining root access to a Mac is 'easy pickings,' according to an individual who won an OS X hacking challenge last month by gaining root control of a machine using an unpublished security vulnerability," reportsZD Net.A user in Sweden put a Mac Mini onlne and invited people to hack it. "Gwerdna", the winning hacker, said: "Mac OS X is easy pickings for bug finders. That said, it doesn't have the market share to really interest most serious bug finders."However, according toSlashdot, would-be hackers were allowed access via SSH, so it wasn't a locked-down machine.Comment: There isn't a mass market for Mac hacks, but Mac security consultants are considered fair game. One recent example was at the recent ShmooCon hacking conference, where "one security researcher found out the hard way that such venues can be hostile, when an unknown hacker took control of the researcher's computer, disabling the firewall and starting up a file server," reportsSecurity Focus.The victim ... had locked down the system prior to the conference and believes that a previously unknown exploit caused the compromise. However, in the following weeks, forensics performed on the system did not reveal any clues as to how the PowerBook had been compromised."The machine was as hardened as best practices could suggest for anyone," the researcher said. The person who breached the PowerBook used information gathered from the computer to contact a friend of the researcher and bragged about the compromise.
It was interesting to pick up the Times this morning, which carried a piece proclaiming"World's fastest internet will send the Encyclopedia Britannica to Shoreditch in 7 seconds". After all, the idea that super-super-fast 2 Gigabit internet access could be available in east London - not a million miles from Guardian Towers, of course - is my kind of tech porn.The whole thing comes courtesy of theShoreditch Digital Bridge, a social project owned by an East End trust that launched late last year and is aiming to bring net access to a deprived neighbourhood. With 12m of government funding, the scheme will roll out later this year and bring the internet into 20,000 homes in Hackney.But the question is whether the story's accurate. And the answer? Not exactly.First off, this might be among the world's fastest commercially available internet connections, but it is dwarfed by projects likeTeragrid, for example. That runs up to 40 Gigabits - 20 times faster than Digital Bridge's maximum, used by a network of American universities and companies.And because each 2 Gigabit connection is shared across 1,000 homes, you'd need to make sure that nobody else was using the net (or watching TV) to get that maximum speed. If everyone else was online, you'd only get a maximum of 2 Megabits per second - already the standard speed for providers like BT (and soon they'll begoing much faster.And over in South Korea, the world's most networked nation, home users can boast dedicated connection speeds of 100Mbps each. OK, so it's not as fast - but you don't share it with anyone.But we shouldn't hold any of this against the Digital Bridge - after all, everybody uses theoretical top speeds as the standard. (You never see cars marketed with the phrase "could do 0-60 in 7 seconds, but will most likely take about twice as long".)Actually, there's a lot missing from the Times report that makes the project seem like an incredibly interesting one. For starters, you won't even need a computer - just a TV screen and a keyboard (the rest can be hosted back at the network centre in Docklands). Secondly, the whole lot is only going to cost Shoreditch residents 3.50 a week, which compares very favourably market rates.This afternoon I spoke to Dan Hodges of Digital Bridge, who told me a little more about the project."We're looking to aim it at ordinary users," he told me. "It's aimed at bringing the web to demographics who have traditionally been bypassed by the internet revolution.""We're installing the first pilot systems now - the rollout will be in a fortnight, and the system will go live some time in June."And the good news? It could be coming to you. Mr Hodges said that although the project was a wholly-owned part of the Shoreditch Trust, they had been in touch with a number of other local authorities who are interested in the idea.So maybe not all the way over to Guardian Towers yet, but I've got my fingers crossed.
The New York Times website (registration required, I'm afraid) has justposteda decent mainstream introduction to the world of videogame strategy guides, meeting the authors who now make a good living writing them and going over the familiar issues - i.e. why buy an anachronistic paperback guide, when you can go online and get a FAQ for free? It seems plenty of peopledo- according to the New York Times piece these guides generated about $90 million in sales in 2004.I've only ever bought a handful of game guides - all of them from Japan where strategy books are often stylish coffee table tomes boasting beautiful design, lovely use of illustration and masses of ephemeral detail. In the west, the key publishers are getting to grips with the importance of aesthetics and of providing background information, rather than just basic walkthrough data, but I'm rarely tempted.What do you think? Are strategy guides merely a way for quitters to cheat their way through a game's shortest path or do they provide an enriching accompaniment to the experience?
The range of techie Lego creations includes an iPod case and a Difference Engine "able to solve mathematical problems," andTecheblog has the pictures. The Volvo XC90 looks amazing.....
On March 3 last year,I wrote in my column: "The joke in the US telecoms market is that the few surviving phone companies are going to merge and change their name to Ma Bell. Following three big takeovers in the past two months, we may not be that far away."AT&amp;T -- "Ma Bell" -- was broken up by the US government in 1984, and last year, the struggling remnant eventually sold off to SBC for only $16 billion. But now SBC has changed its name to AT&amp;T and is back on the take-over trail, buyiing Bell South, the last surviving "Baby Bell", for stock worth $67 billion."A combined AT&amp;T-BellSouth would have $130 billion in sales and serve residential customers in 22 states," saysThe New York Times.SBC has bougtht four phone companies in the past decade -- Pacific Telesis ((Pacific Bell and Nevada Bell), Southern New England Telecommunications (SNET), Ameritech and AT&amp;T -- in the process of reassembling most of the AT&amp;T that the anti-trust department destroyed. But it hasn't been a complete waste of time. Just think of all those hundreds of billions of dollars spent on corporate take-overs.....
Good morning. It's Monday. Chat away.
Seth Godin speaks at Google.
A sign of the times? Peter Molyneux'sLionhead Studiosareshedding 20% of their staff. Considering the slow sales of The Movies, which they developed, this isn't a major surprise. It is sad though. Yes, The Movies can be frustrating, but at least it was different. In a PC market suffocated by the same old stuff - fantasy/strategy/shooters - the ability to create your own films, while simultaneously running a 1930s set, would surely be appealing. Apparently not. Black and White 2, Lionhead's other recent release, underperformed too, and both contributed to these job losses.Flexibility and sheer penetration mean the PC has the potential to offer the widest range of gaming experiences. Yes, there is a small but buzzing indie sector, but when it comes to big titles it seems the market just isn't there. Are PC gamers asconservative as their console brethren?
"As soon as he opened the bundle, he realized that a clock had started ticking on a new assignment: he had four months to write a manual on how to extort, kill and otherwise take over a New York mob family. The task was particularly harrowing, in part because he wanted to make sure that his prose was well organized and clear," writesThe New York Times.
By far one of the strangest "MMO"s I've come across,Massively Multiplayer Pongis an exercise in too many cooks tending the soup. It runs in a flash player and you and - at my last count - 18 other people control one of the iconic Pong paddles while another bunch of work-evaders control the other. Not for control freaks.I was please to see, however, that my team was winning 8,435 to 7,040.
Three chickens have become unlikely internet stars thanks to a website that shows them clucking 24 hours a day.Hencam.co.uk, which shows Bradford-based birds Milly, Tilly and Penny laying eggs, squabbling and scratching around, has pulled in more than 17,000 visits since its launch a fortnight ago.Neil Whitaker, 35, said the idea came to him while he was chatting with friends in a pub. But, he added: "I can't honestly believe so many people would want to sit around and watch hens."According to the site's henblog, Milly has laid eight eggs, while Tilly and Penny have yet to lay.
Volkswagen Passat&pound;14,995 to &pound;26,455Top speed:144mphMiles per gallon:46Good for:the gin crowdBad for:the in crowdLike computers, stereos, and probably rugby players, each succeeding generation of a car is sleeker and more powerful than the last. Volkswagen's Passat, originally rolled out in 1973, is now into its sixth incarnation, and the latest, highly evolved model has as much in common with its great great great grandfather as an iPod has with a 78rpm gramophone.Back in the Eighties, I was lucky enough to have the use of a second-generation Passat - a hulking, wallowing boat-like affair with a pale tan interior and a dark tan exterior. The car's moment of glory came when I neglected to put the requisite grunt into engaging the handbrake and, overnight, the brown Passat creaked, driverless, 25 yards down the road before rolling to a stop, unharmed, in the middle of a roundabout.Such a stunt would not be possible in the current Passat. The car has done away with the handbrake and instead there is an 'electronic parking lock' - essentially a button on the dash which you press instead of hauling up the handbrake. Quite what happens to that classic chav trick, the handbrake turn, is anyone's guess - I didn't have the nerve or the verve to throw the stately estate through its paces in the car park of the local supermarket. But though the joy of a gravel-spewing turn may have been lost, drivers can now console themselves by sucking on the lifetime's supply of mints they can now store in the huge cubbyhole that exists where the handbrake used to be.The electronic parking lock is all part of what VW calls its 'democracy of luxury'. You may recall the advert that accompanied the launch of the Passat: 'Luxury you can easily get used to'. And there is a sense of poshness about the car which goes way beyond the dull but invincible service usually offered by the Teutonic maker.The inside is a vision in leather, chrome and state-of-the-art cup holders. Why car makers spend so much effort on cup holders is hard to imagine. No driver has ever died of dehydration on the M25. I think prospective owners must assume that a maker who's prepared to invest so much ingenuity into a cup holder must also have tried pretty hard with the engine, too. The new Passat also has an 'umbrella holder' - a very novel way of renaming a plastic cavity in the driver's door. You'd have thought VW could have chucked in an umbrella too, though. Seems a little tight to spend up to &pound;26,445 on a car and then have to fork out for a branded brolly - an extra &pound;26.Elsewhere, luxury continues apace. There's better steering and suspension, adaptive lights, and more air bags than a bouncy castle. The key is a clever push-and-go affair, and the hazard lights come on automatically if you brake severely - which means no more panic hunting for the red triangle while you are also trying to brake hard on the M4.Seven different engines are available. But it's the 2-litre diesel which will be the punter's favourite: smooth, satisfying and producing almost 50 miles to the gallon - a luxury anyone could easily get used to.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Google frameworkView larger imageOn Thursday, Google held aGoogle Analyst Dayfor investors and analysts, and you can downloada PDF of the presentation slides. There's some fascinating stuff in there, including the slide above, which shows how it ranks its various products. Search is the core 70%, with things like Gmail in the supplementary 20% circle.Things that are non-strategic -- often produced because individuals thought they were interesting -- are in the outer (10%) circle. Examples include Orkut, Reader, Google Pack, Google Movies and W-Fi. Which is fine. The problem is that the outer 10% are mostly mediocre products badly executed. This has made people like me wonder if Google can actually execute, and whether it has a real strategy or is simply confused. Such wonderings can have a decidedly adverse effect on the image of Google's core businesses. If Google is serious, it needs to signal the relative importance of these products much more strongly than it does. Or simply stop releasing half-baked products under the Google name.The other slightly worrying thing about the slide is that Google's Book Search is in the 20% rather than the 10% circle. Book Search is already a target for lawsuits and publishers are campaigning to get consumers to boycott all of Google until the mess is sorted out. Whatever happens in the long run, Book Search is damaging Google in the short term, and the company appears not to understand -- or perhaps not to care -- why it's a problem.There was originally a PowerPoint version of the slides which included some fascinating notes mentioning unannounced products such as GDrive and Lighthouse.Greg Lindonand others have been working to retrieve these. One example is:Theme 2: Store 100% of User DataWith infinite storage, we can house all user files, including: emails, web history, pictures, bookmarks, etc and make it accessible from anywhere (any device, any platform, etc).We already have efforts in this direction in terms of GDrive, GDS, Lighthouse, but all of them face bandwidth and storage constraints today. For example: Firefox team is working on server side stored state but they want to store only URLs rather than complete web pages for storage reasons. This theme will help us make the client less important (thin client, thick server model) which suits our strength vis-a-vis Microsoft and is also of great value to the user.As we move toward the "Store 100%" reality, the online copy of your data will become your Golden Copy and your local-machine copy serves more like a cache. An important implication of this theme is that we can make your online copy more secure than it would be on your own machine.Another important implication of this theme is that storing 100% of a user's data makes each piece of data more valuable because it can be access across applications. For example: a user's Orkut profile has more value when it's accessible from Gmail (as addressbook), Lighthouse (as access list), etc.This is a classic Evil Empire idea. If it was proposed by IBM or Microsoft, it would be dismissed as deranged. And Google is, of course, exactly the same sort of multibillion dollar multinational corporation as IBM and Micrososft, even though it claims to be different ("Do no evil"). It's a strategy that George Orwell would appreciate.
A month ago The Observer reported how millions hooked on their Blackberry - dubbed the CrackBerry - were staring into the abyss(Blackberry addicts fear total blackout, February 5 2006) . Research in Motion (RIM), the Canadian company which makes the hand-held emailing device, had lost a patent infringement suit over software to the American company NTP, and was fighting a series of appeals to avoid being forced to halt sales and shut down its service in America. One diehard fan complained: 'It's just nuts.'Now those BlackBerry addicts can breathe again: the threat of a shutdown has finally been lifted. On Friday RIM reached a $612.5m (&pound;349m) 'full and final settlement' with NTP to end the five-year wrangle. The news was welcome for the BlackBerry's 3m users, from Vice-President Dick Cheney down.'The agreement eliminates the need for any further court proceedings,' RIM said. NTP grants RIM an unfettered right to continue its business, including its Blackberry-related business.'RIM said it had already put aside $450m for a possible settlement with NTP, and that the additional $162.5m would be recorded in its next quarterly report due in April. The overall $612.5m settlement compares to the firm's total cash reserves of $1.8bn.
"In addition to helping distribute content from across the world, Google would like to share videos featuring our company. The videos on this page give you an overview of our culture, products and business. Whether it's a scientist discussing their latest work or one of our campus events, we hope to provide a sample of great conversations and presentations. Over time we'll continue to add more videosFrom the Googleplex."The videos include aGoogle Factory Tour event on 5/19/05 at Google's Mountain View headquarters. ...andSergey Brin Speaks with UC Berkeley Class.
"A nimble, four-legged robot is so surefooted it can recover its balance even after being given a hefty kick. The machine, which moves like a cross between a goat and a pantomime horse, is being developed as a robotic pack mule for the US military," reportsNew Scientist."BigDogis described by its developers Boston Dynamics as "the most advanced quadruped robot on Earth". The company have released a new video of the robot negotiating steep slopes, crossing rocky ground and dealing with the sharp kick.View the impressive clip here(28MB Windows media file)."
"BlackBerry maker Research in Motion said Friday it agreed to pay $612.5 million to patent holding company NTP to settle a long-running dispute that had threatened to shut down the popular wireless e-mail service for its 3 million users. Canadian-based Research in Motion (Research) announced the settlement late Friday ahead of a U.S. judge's expected ruling on damages in the case," reportsCNN Money.Steve Maebius, an intellectual property lawyer with Foley &amp; Lardner said: "The patent office just issued its second final rejection on NTP's patents -- meaning that it was almost to point where the patents were ruled invalid. But that development just came about too late to be relevant to the district court proceedings."Comment: Willthe insanityever end?
Deh dah do. Misbalah. Que-moh-nuzhnee? Esta booka-dee schvallow en dough cheeky-a-vunch.*Don't quite recognise it? It's Simlish, allegedly a combination of fractured Ukrainian and Tagalog, the language of the Philippines, and it could help 80s icons Depeche Mode appeal to a new audience.The Mode, as they are known to fans, have re-recorded one of their singles in the so-called language used by characters in the hugely popular computer game series The Sims, which allows people to build their own cities and worlds.Although no dictionary seems available, the online encyclopaedia Wikipedia has a stab. "Moarsh doove" appears to mean "howdy, neighbour". "Kavaala! Midoo!" has been roughly translated as "Over here! I'm desperate". The phrase "Oh flark" probably needs no translation.Depeche Mode, pioneers of synthesiser pop are now attempting to take a lead in Simlish, with a re-recording of Suffer Well from the album Playing the Angel."Depeche Mode has always been open to new ways of sharing our music," said lead singer David Gahan. "But re-recording a Simlish-language version of Suffer Well just sounded bizarre. Of course, that's why we couldn't resist doing it."Steve Schnur, an executive at EA, the company behind The Sims, described Simlish as "an emotion-filled language that defies translation. It's a great fit for the music of Depeche Mode which is so focused on creating a mood and appeals to people on an emotional level."A video of the song can be downloaded from the game's website and features a cartoon version of the band. The film's rollercoaster story, a seemingly tragic one, revolves around a robot who falls in love with a human woman who spurns his advances. The robot gets drunk, fights and then tries to burn the woman alive. It fails but it does get a painting of the woman exhibited at a fancy gallery.Depeche Mode are following in the footsteps of fellow 80s synthesiser pop act Howard Jones who re-recorded his 1985 hit Things Can Only Get Better in Simlish. In an interview with a cartoon chimpanzee on the game's website, Jones dedicates the reworking to his 11-year-old son Jasper, a big Sims fan. "I did find it very, very challenging. It took me a long time to get my tongue around the words," he said.*According to Wikipedia, this could mean: Hello. I'm frustrated. Are you joking? I know exactly where that's going and I couldn't agree more. Alternatively, since it is made up, it could mean anything you want it to mean.
Super Monkey Ball Touch &amp; RollNintendo DSLike a psychedelic Marble Madness, Super Monkey Ball's mesmerising play mechanic involves tilting an aerial maze so that your ball-encased ape reaches its goal while rolling over as many bananas as it can along the way. Using stylus and touch screen to manoeuvre is initially wobbly, but swiftly becomes intuitive, even surpassing the fine control of the GameCube version, the series' pinnacle of entrapped simian-rolling subtlety. Most mazes take about a minute to complete, making this a good portable game, and even the sequence that scrolls after completing each stage is a game in itself, perfectly expressing the playful spirit that infuses the Monkey Ball series, accurately prefaced "Super".&#183;Sega, &pound;30The Rub Rabbits!Nintendo DSThe Rub Rabbits! is the peculiarly named follow-up to Project Rub, an early and mildly eccentric Nintendo DS game that never completely worked. Coming from Sega's legendary Sonic Team, Rub's innovation then as now was to let players work their way through a comedy adventure, which saw you competing for a lady's attentions through Napoleon Dynamite-style tests of skill, all of which involved interaction between stylus and touch screen, punctuated by microphone usage. The Rub Rabbits!, while similar in content and style, incorporates fewer game-ending difficulty spikes and is more fun to play, although nowhere near the equal of the even crazier Wario Ware: Touched!&#183;Sega, &pound;30Burnout RevengeXBox 360 (also available for PS2 &amp; XBox)Rather than taking place on properly sandbagged race tracks, Burnout's high-speed face-offs occur on crowded city streets and motorways with extra boost awarded for the destruction you wreak by "checking" (crashing into) traffic heading in the same direction as you. The high-speed, slightly blurred visuals benefit little from Xbox 360's High Definition output, but this is still a powerful workout for the adrenal gland. Through a combination of dizzyingly fast races, incremental promotion through the game's ranks and an endless drip feed of unlockable extras, Burnout Revenge exerts an almost gravitational pull - quite disruptive if, for example, you have a number of games you're meant to be playing in order to review them, and you know you shouldn't, but you can't help having just one more go.&#183;Electronic Arts, &pound;50
MondayOrange County school system on the benefits of gamingLad RockThe Revolution will be... touchy?TuesdayEnterprising businsessfolk learn from PSPMicrosoft folds over Origami rumoursIs MySpace and MMORPG?Back to the futureGame Developers Choice Awards nominations announcedWednesdayStandardised platform for mobile games coming in 2006Blu-ray to hit US in MayScores on the handThursdayJust what we need... more gangstersPEER trade body to promote workers' rightsRevolution, againKonami rapped for Crime Life adSnoop game goes to the dogsFridayDarfur games shock and appalEntering Oblivion
