AMicrosoft press releasehas announced version 1.0 of the first Microsoft-funded translator between OpenDocument format (ODF) and Office 2007's Open XML document formats. It says:The completedOpen XML Translatorenables conversion of documents from one format to the other and is available for anyone to download and use at no cost. When plugged into Microsoft Office Word, for example, the Translator provides customers with the choice to open and save documents in ODF rather than the native Open XML format. The Translator may also be plugged into competing word processing programs that use ODF as the default format to open and save documents in Open XML.Excel and PowerPoint translators will follow.Brian Jones, Microsoft's program manager for Open XML Formats, also announced it onhis blog.
How did they do that?The Chicago Tribunesays that "The images are designed on computer, says CNA Financial spokesman Boesel, but the rest of the work is done manually. Every blind is changed, every light switch is clicked on or off by human hands." (The CNA Center says Go Bears.)And Dan Perez, CNA's senior software manager, is described as "the Michelangelo of the Chicago night skyline."But in the end,the celebration lights were not required.
"YouTube, the popular online video site, has begun removing more than 100,000 unauthorized clips belonging to Viacom -- everything from snippets of Jon Stewart's The Daily Show to Nickelodeon's SpongeBob SquarePants," reportsThe San Francisco Chronicle.The purge comes after Viacom demanded that YouTube take down the material, accusing the site of violating its copyrights. Viacom says it's the largest order to delete videos it has ever made.This is, of course, just a negotiating tactic. Like CBS and NBC, Viacom wants money from YouTube, and Google has pots of money. Mainly it wants more money than the others because, as the story points out, "Viacom shows appear on paid cable rather than broadcast channels."The problem is, did Viacom's lawyers actually watch 100,000 videos on YouTube to find out if they infringed or not? It doesn't look like it. Cory Docotorow puts the case somewhat stridently atBoing Boing. He says:Viacom did a general search on YouTube for any term related to any of its shows, and then spammed YouTube with 100,000 DMCA take-down notices alleging that all of these clips infringed its copyright and demanding that they be censored off the Internet. YouTube made thousands of clips vanish, and sent warning notices to the people who'd posted them, warning them that they were now on a list of potential copyright infringers and telling them that repeat offenses could lead to having their accounts terminated.This is shockingly bad behaviour on the part of both Viacom and Google, YouTube's owner. Viacom's indiscriminate spamigation is incredibly negligent and evil.Anyone who has searched YouTube knows that while it will probably find some of the videos you're looking for, if they are there, it will also find a whole lot more that have little or no connection. So if Doctorow is right, Viacom's mass take-down could have hurt thousands of innocent bystanders. And, he says. Google should "sue the living shit out of Viacom" to stop the abuse of the take-down process.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
So what were you playing this weekend? For me it was the same as recent weeks - i.e. the odd hour or six of Burning Crusade mixed with some Live Arcade stuff for light relief. Small Arms and Ms Pac Man were the arcade games of choice over the weekend, even if I can't decide yet whether SA is as good as it thinks it is. The weekend routine is likely to change soon though. February looks like being a cracking month for games -much like last year- with Okami and Final Fantasy XII offering ample opportunity to dust down the PS2 (or save until PS3 launches).
A ban has been imposed by eBay on auctions of virtual items from online games such as EverQuest. For years, players have sold virtual items that can give an edge. On eBay last week a pair of EverQuest game accounts had a first bid of $200 before they were removed.'Our standpoint is that everything in our games is the property of Sony Online Entertainment,' said Greg Short, director of web development at Sony, which publishes EverQuest. 'We can't say definitely if it's illegal,' said eBay spokesman Hani Durzy. 'It's complex. And when something is complex like this, we have a history of disallowing the items.'
Everybody has a novel in them, so they say. Wouldn't it be better, though, for a million people to club together to write one? This is the theory behind an initiative launched this weekend by Penguin Books, in collaboration with students at De Montfort University in Leicester. They plan to create the world's first 'wiki' novel, fiction that will be concocted online by millions of contributors across the globe.Until the end of the month anyone can join in to help write the novel, which has the provisional title of A Million Penguins. The site is amillionpenguins.com and, so far, just a few days into the experiment, the novel is into its seventh chapter.The project has been designed as part of a study module at the university. Students involved are based across the world and include the director of Booktrust, Chris Meade.The term 'wiki novel' has been coined for an online book from the internet term 'wiki' which is the name of a website that allows the visitors to add to and edit content, often without the need for registration.Previous attempts to throw open the editorial process using the web have not had a smooth track record, however; chaos ensued when the Los Angeles Times threw open its editorial processes to internet readers.But Penguin is optimistic. The company's digital publisher, Jeremy Ettinghausen, said the contribution of the students on the university course had already been hugely helpful in shaping the launch of the novel.
Mercedes-Benz R-Class&pound;38,520 to &pound;51,535Miles per gallon:32Seats:6Good for:Rare groovesBad for:Rave reviewsAs a 15-year-old, in the summer of 1980, two schoolfriends and I escaped the shackles of parental vigilance to find ourselves a day's walk into the ancient hills of Perthshire. It was all purple heather, peat-brown rivers and vast skies. It was also the weekend we discovered that large amounts of whisky washed down with Irn-Bru (Scotland's other national drink) makes you feel very sick. Having spent the night lying face-down on top of a tent we'd failed to erect, we struggled to the nearest farm and phoned for help. My friend's father arrived an hour later in a new Merc. Being the sickest, I was allowed to sit in the front, cradling a bucket between my knees. Mr Wilson gave me a wry smile, selected drive on the automatic, and turned up the stereo. It was Louis Armstrong. I sat slumped, my liver as bruised as the glowering clouds ahead, and let the music wash over me.So, here I am again. A quarter of a century has passed, and I'm once more in a new Mercedes with Louis on the stereo. His voice has all the richness and complexity of a single malt - but without the Irn-Bru. I've selected it because this Merc is fitted with a Harmon Kardon Logic 7 surround-sound system. A fully digital player that takes the usual two-channel stereo and turns it into seven. This is then fed to 14 speakers which are buried around the car - though where I'm not sure, I only spotted nine. The result is awesome, hilarious, lobe-tingling clarity, and a full 360-degree 'listening experience'. It's not so much that you feel you have Louis playing live, more that he's blowing his trumpet on the passenger seat. In the jargon, the 'aural sweet spot' fills the whole car.The Logic 7 has to be pre-ordered and is factory-fitted during a car's manufacture. It can be built into all Range Rover and Land Rover models, all BMWs and across the Mercedes range. But, unlike many of life's luxuries, the Logic 7 is a relative bargain, costing from &pound;501. Considering the hours we spend driving, or more precisely being stuck in cars, it's a small price to pay for real pleasure on the move. But then, once you step into the world of ICE (in-car entertainment), there's no limit. The Bang & Olufsen Advanced System, for instance, is an optional extra on Audi's A8 and costs &pound;4,500. The new Lexus LS460 can be fitted with a Mark Levinson Reference System which costs a cool 18 grand.Finally, what about the new Mercedes R-Class in which I've been doing my easy listening? It is an uber-luxurious, six-seat, four-wheel-drive monster - and not the cuddly kind. It's an amalgam of a family estate, an MPV and an SUV, with a military assault vehicle thrown in for good measure. Mercedes clearly thought they could appeal to every driver from the open spaces of Montana to the wilds of Knightsbridge with a single motor, but I suspect they'll only manage to alienate everyone in between. Having said that, of course, being a Mercedes, it is an astonishingly competent and well-made bit of kit. It's just that, as with trumpets and malts, subtlety is so much more sublime.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Created byMichael Wesch, Assistant Professor of Cultural Anthropology at Kansas State University.
We get far more letters and blog pingbacks every week than we have room for. Click through to see what we chose from..SPYWAREA very interesting article entitled "Why I can never agree with adware and spyware" in the Inside IT section today. I would however like to point out it was Prevx researchers who first discovered Gromozon and still the only vendor to provide an effective cleanup solution to this nasty piece of malware.http://hackersblog.itproportal.com/?p=403http://www.prevx.com/gromozon.aspPaul Stubbs, Product Manager, Prevx Ltd [Ben Edelman points out that he said that Sunbelt Software *studied* Gromozon - as the first link demonstrates, since it's to an article by Sunbelt Software's chief executive - CA]First of all, thank you for the opportunity to provide feedback. I am writing about the Jan. 25, 2007 article entitled "Why I can never agree with adware and spyware". Our company, Zango, is mentioned in the article, but the author omits any context and his bias is clearly to oppose our business model. Your readers would not get this from the article, but our recent history has been a great thing for the company and we expect 2007 to be our best year to date. Perhaps you could give us a future opportunity to visit with you and show you how our business – online desktop advertising – is contributing to the amazing Content Economy unfolding on the Internet. In the meantime, I wanted to point out a couple of factual errors in the article pertaining specifically to Zango: 1.) The "American Federal Trade Commission" investigation concluded in late 2006 was not "litigation." To describe the investigation as litigation is inaccurate and misleading; the author, who is a lawyer, surely knows the difference. 2.) The Federal Trade Commission's investigation did not yield "millions of dollars in fines," as incorrectly stated in the article. Zango settled the FTC investigation; it was not fined. Again, any lawyer knows the difference between a fine and a settlement. The consent agreement available on the FTC Web site explicitly notes, at page 2, paragraph 9, that "This agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by [Zango] that the law has been violated as alleged in the draft complaint, or that the facts as alleged in the draft complaint, other than the jurisdictional facts, are true." Again, thank you for providing a convenient way to provide corrections to errors in articles. We welcome any chance to discuss further Zango, our business model and our efforts to lead the online downloadable software industry. Steve Stratz, Director of Public Relations, Zango [see the web page athttp://www.ftc.gov/opa/2006/11/zango.htm: we should have said that the settlement of the FTC's charges required Zango to "give up $3 million in ill-gotten gains." - Tech Ed.]PICK A VISTAAfter today's article about new Microsoft Vista I was left with feeling that Open Source OS is left in the shadow at large. There seem to be very little or no coverage about Linux operating System as such. Many features that are just now included in new Windows System have been available to Linux users for years, and free of charge. Where as you have to pay up to £250 for the same sort of thing in Windows. The security is very stable and in fact Linux OS is first choice for servers because it is much more reliable than Windows. In just over 10 years Linux OS has came along way with many different distributions and software. In many cases software doing the job in much better way than many Shareware equivalents. Open Office incorporates many features that are superior to Microsoft Office, but also supports all of the Microsoft Office standards. Novel has established full support for SuSE Linux Desktop and Servers. The releases are regularly updated and new features are brought out very frequently. People decide and bring innovation in to the software and new features are incorporated in next versions which come out almost on monthly basis. compare with windows updates that you wait for months to patch up particular bug. A lot of people that read the section are unaware of the benefits of the Open Source community and Linux OS in particular. I think it would be great if "Technology" section could do an article about that. It would be both interesting to everyday user and professional that might be considering trying Open Source. As well as that it would bring nice diversity to the section. Alex Jironkin (no post town given)PLANNING DATARobert Pope's MySociety mash-up (Don't panic: we'll email if we want to demolish your house, 25 January) is to the Government's Planning portal what the Arctic Monkeys are to Cliff Richard. It's a quick and cheap Web 2.0 way to deliver an innovative alert and geographic information service to benefit citizens but it has its limitations. Planning Alerts works but postcodes are not that smart, and limit the user to only being informed of things close to addressables– what if I have a favourite beauty spot, beach or plot of land I wanted to be kept informed about? With access to other datasets, it could be turned into a more advanced geographic information system (GIS) and something really neat. But it goes some way to demonstrate the huge potential of modern mapping technology and how it will continue to become part of our everyday lives. James Thompson, Local Government Strategist, ESRI (UK), Aylesbury&gt;&gt; Seeing the huge efforts required to influence data access policies at the international and national, lately I've been more inclined to focus at the local level. The possibility to have a say and get in touch with responsible people is much greater. Successes here can aggregate together to influence at a higher level, a bottom up approach.http://brainoff.com/weblog/2007/01/25/1225XXX MARKS THE SPOT&gt;&gt; For me, I can't see why someone doesn't push .kids again. Previously a reason this was rejected was that child protection groups said there were too many loopholes, and others that there was the problem that is this is a global TLD – who decides what is appropriate for kids. But it makes much more sense rather than pushing this preposterous idea for .xxx that seems to be only wanted by ICM Registry.http://www.domainnews.com/general/0020070128/why-the-xxx-would-anyone-want-a-top-level-domain-for-porn/MORE ELECTROSENSITIVITYThank you for your Jan 17th article on electrosmog. I hope you may consider an alternative argument that is documented. I hope you may investigate and report further on this very serious problem, which is only the tip of the iceberg. The history of EMR bioeffects ( including so called 'nonthermal') research is intertwined with military research, very classified. Citations, etc. and a brief summary are posted here.http://mindjustice.org/06-12-romero-book.htm#14Please consider how powerful governments can be at suppressing science: ". . .The official U.S. Air Force position is that there are no non-thermal effects of microwaves. Yet Dennis Bushnell, chief scientist at NASA's Langley Research Center, tagged microwave attacks against the human brain as part of future warfare in a 2001 presentation to the National Defense Industrial Association about "Future Strategic Issues." "That work is exceedingly sensitive" and unlikely to be reported in any unclassified documents, he says." Cheryl Welsh, Davis, CaliforniaI wonder why studies to discover whether subjects really are electrosensitive haven't yet used sensors strategically placed on the body to actually determine what is happening (rather than ask the "victim" what they feel - then discount it)? Not rocket science, is it?? Cllr Sylvia Wright, South StaffordshireTECHNOBILE (SONY)I think Sony's attitude to customers is contemptible (re. Technobile, 25th Jan). I bought a Vaio laptop which turned out to have a battery life of less than 30 minutes. The cause? The battery supplied was only half-full, literally: half the case was filled with fresh air. The answer? £199 for a replacement, full, battery. You won't catch me buying another Vaio. Seán Kelly, LondonBLOG SPAMMERSWith reference to your article "Getting the blog spammers to hang up their affiliates 25/01/07", I write to congratulate you on a fair but summarised report on blog spamming. However, i am a little perplexed why you concentrated most of the report on affiliates and the related networks when they could of easily been summarised as one channel out of many different revenue streams people can use to monetise traffic. In particular you failed to note why many of the blogs actually exist in the first place. Since most blogs online actually only exist for the purpose of getting indexed by google for specific search terms i feel your article completely missed every point related to blog spamming and simply concentrated on one or two idle links that were easy to follow.Since these kind of reports are negative to my industry, where last year we generated over 50 million pounds of merchant sales i do feel compelled to perhaps contribute from time to time, especially when i see articles written in good faith but completely overlooking the real story. Matthew Yabsley, msc-consultancy Ltd, SheffieldSpamming doesn't just affect blogs - it is equally unpleasant on user forums too. Recently a multimedia cataloguing program's user forum became almost unusable because of spam. Spammers were registering so their url's appeared in Google, then some started new threads, but the breaking point was when some began responding to legitimate posts too. This meant people were getting emails notifying them that there was a reply to their posts - only to find it was spam. Denial of service indeed! It was only stopped when I told the program developer (a Microsoft subsidiary) that I and other leading posters would boycott the forum until new members needed to be approved before they could post. That sorted it out - well, sent the problem elsewhere. John Beardsworth, LondonBLIMPSI'm sure lots of people will point this out, but you say: Each airship will float 12 miles (20km) above the surface (in the low stratosphere), be powered by solar panels and could oversee an area of 600 square miles. Put 11 of them over the US with suitably powerful cameras, and they could keep watch on every square metre of the whole country. This sounds unlikely: the US is c. 3,000 miles across and maybe 2,000 miles tall, so perhaps 6,000,000 square miles. So I think you'd need more like 10,000 if the "600 square miles each" bit is right. Nicholas Radcliffe, Edinburgh [It should have said 600 miles in diameter - a correction has been sent to the Guardian's readers' editor - CA]HP VS DELL'Dell may be losing its grip on the personal computer market,' writes Jack Schofield (Technology, 25 January). A few years ago, I spent £2000 on a Dell notebook. Shortly after the warranty expired, the keyboard started misbehaving, and several new keyboards later (and an expensive trip to Dell's repair facility), the problem is still there. Dell's online notice boards show that legions of owners had the same problem, but Dell has not acknowledged a design fault. No doubt newer Dell models don't have this fault, thanks to unpaid testers like me. Dell has been losing its grip for some time. Allan Jones, Yardley Gobion
There's a nice advert for the Nintendo Wii on YouTube, with the odd thing being that it wasn't made by Nintendo. It was made for fun bySuper 78, and it's going to get them a lot of publicity.(It also seems to draw some inspiration from John Lasseter's award-winningLuxo Jr(1986), the first independent film produced by Pixar Animation Studios, but that's hardly unusual....)
No, that's not a headline from two years ago when Flickr - the popular photosharing website - was bought by Yahoo. It's the result of a teacup-sized tornado that was caused when the minority of Flickr's users who have not yet streamlined with a Yahoo account were told that they must do so in the next month.I received the same email, since I joined Flickr in 2004 and ranked as an "old skool" user. I must admit I was a little grumpy at the idea of no longer being treated as a special case but then I realised that "old skool" was in fact part of Flickr's cunning way of turning negative into positive - really, we were grumpy old buggers that they mollified with a turn of phrase that made us feel special.I decided to merge anyway. And you know what - there were no problems, it took a few seconds and I don't need to use Yahoo mail or anything else.But that doesn't seem to have made a large number of vocal Flickrites very happy.This thread on the subjectnow runs to more than 2000 posts. Over at Strange Attractor,Suw Charman lists many of the grievances. Here's my pick:* Finding an available Yahoo! ID that doesn't suck.* Hating your existing Yahoo! ID; or losing the password and being unable to retrieve it.* Hating the unpleasant and long-winded Yahoo! sign-up process, which includes questions some people find intrusive and objectionable.* Intermittency of Yahoo! sessions - people like being permanently logged into Flickr and don't want to have to keep logging into Yahoo! (This is supposed to have been fixed now, but not everyone is happy with the cookie-based solution.)* Concern that, in the UK at least, Yahoo! is wedded to British Telecom's broadband service and that by tying Flickr to Yahoo! they are also tying Flickr to BT. This is not good - if you want to change ISP you loose your BT Internet email address, which would then invalidate your Yahoo! ID and cut you off from Flickr.etcWhile there are some legitimate complaints, the whole thing seems to have become a bandwagon for moaning pseuds and tin foil brigadeers. Despite the volume of complaints, I continue to find most of them petty ("I can't find a Yahoo ID I like!" when it has no public relation to your Flickr identity), pointless ("What? I can only haveTHREE THOUSANDcontacts, and only putSEVENTY FIVEtags on each picture? Omigod"), cliquey ("I want to be a bit special" when old skool users were never differentiated in the past) or simply mindless "I hate Yahoo" anti-corporatism (when, as I said before, if you hate Yahoo this much why be a part of it at all?)Yes, there are a couple of genuine issues that could have been handled better. And there are good reasons to criticise Yahoo - especially its appalling behaviour in China, for example, of which I have been a vocal critic on many occasions.If these individuals hate Yahoo so much, why didn't they bog off when Flickr got bought nearly two years ago? Here's my theory: that in fact, most people don't seem to actually mind that Yahoo owns Flickr. Instead, the problem is that Flickr had the temerity to remind them of that fact.[this post is an amalgam of two that I have written onmy own blog, so I admit to plagiarising myself]
Back in the day, before Neil Diamond, 66, had his own MySpace page and Rupert Murdoch, 75, had accessorised the site with a $580m price-tag, people of a certain age regarded the social networking phenomenon with bafflement and fear. Friends Reunited, with its prehistorically basic interface, was one thing; the onslaught of video-sharing, music-streaming, photo-uploading sites with names like Xanga, Bebo and Orkut was quite another. The masters of this brash new universe were, for the most part, too young to vote.Now, according to a survey by US internet research company comScore, more than half of MySpace users are 35 and over. Adults want to get down with the kids and flag up their favourite Joan Armatrading B-sides; and, increasingly, it's being adapted to promote careers in business and politics (seemyspace.com/georgegalloway). The kids, meanwhile, have moved somewhere much cooler.This pan-generational embrace of social networking has opened doors to a host of niche-interest sites angled towards users of superior age and lesser technological ability. Instead of music and video - the main currencies in MySpace and YouTube - these easily navigable sites cater for a wide spectrum of interests, from painting (Selfportrait.net) to child-rearing (Netmums.com) and all matters canine (Dogster.com).One American site,Eons.com, is targeted exclusively at people over 50. Features include a longevity calculator, a pictorial timeline called the 'Lifemap' and brain-taxing puzzles calibrated to combat Alzheimer's. It also does a mean line in obituaries, which users can write, edit and tastefully decorate with photos and videos. Among the 150,000 members is IncendiaryGranny, 86, from Grottoes, Virginia, who posted a blog entry on 'The hypnotically beautiful hyper-realism of Mr Ron Mueck', complete with images of the artist's work.One of the more appealing post-MySpace sites isLibraryThing.com. This lets bibliophiles catalogue their books and scour a vast online resource which draws from the US Library of Congress,Amazon.comand 60 other libraries worldwide. As well as suggesting works to complement those in your collection, it lets you browse the shelves of likeminded readers, with whom you can chat and even swap books.I follow two very different trails. The Da Vinci Code, the site's most reviewed title, puts me in contact with a 62-year-old architect from Melbourne who sends me enthusiastic messages about Kazuo Ishiguro and Aristotle. Finnegans Wake, by contrast, leads me to TheHappyRobot, who turns out to be a marine biology student at Plymouth University with a soft spot for Flanimals by Ricky Gervais.'I joined a few months ago,' Peter Wimsey says ofGather.com, a networking site with a focus on cultural and current affairs, which seems to be popular, oddly, with US Republicans and aspiring poets. 'There are a number of communities within Gather, and at least two major feuds going on with long threads of angry, hurt, whining, self-pitying screeds.' Wimsey describes himself as 'a serious corporate guy, but lots of fun' who takes pleasure from the countryside, Beethoven and Dorothy L Sayers. 'Personally,' he says of his experience on Gather, 'I love it.'
All you slackers out there have not been using Google's personalised search service, but if you are using a Google account, such as Gmail, then Google has probably turned it on. It's now the default. If you don't want your search history logged and fed back to you, you can turn it off. (Google will still keep logging your searches, of course, but says it will only keep aggregated information.)The change was announced on theGoogle Blog, andSearch Engine Landhas a detailed run-down of the service.The great gaping hole in the personalised search system is there is no facility to remove sites. I'd happily take the time to tick a few boxes if it ensured I'd never again get results from sites like shopping.msn.com, uk.shopping.com, dealtime, nextag, shopgenie, pricerunner, pricegrabbler etc, and any URL with ciao in it.Having just run a few tests, I do think Google has got better at handling this sort of stuff, and product searches are less spammy than they used to be. Well done Google! But if clicking things makes them more important to me, why can't I anti-click things to make them less important?
I have not even tried to install Windows Vista yet, but the early signs are not good. At the moment I'm merely trying to download and install a piece of software called Windows Vista Upgrade Advisor 1.0, which is supposed to scan my system and tell me which version of Vista, if any, is right for my computer. Already there is a problem - the download has been successful as far as Microsoft is concerned, but I can't find the file on my hard drive. Is it possible that my computer is not even compatible with this compatibility checker? When I do manage to get it installed, the first thing the program does is go online to check for updates. It seems I may not have the latest edition of Upgrade Advisor.Windows Vista is the newest edition of Microsoft's operating system, officially launched with much fanfare last Tuesday. It is also the latest and most high-profile incitement to what might be termed upgrade rage, or Upgrage, the uncontrollable anger which occurs whenever a software upgrade deemed to be either essential or beneficial proves to be a pointless waste of your time, or a quick way to cripple your outmoded computer.Vista is said to offer impressive 3D graphics, improved performance and unprecedented security, representing a significant advance on its predecessor, Windows XP. But critics claim that up to 85% of home computers won't be able to run the most sophisticated version, Vista Ultimate. Getting the most out of the software upgrade will require a hardware upgrade - you'll need a new computer. Environmentalists have complained about the level of coercion implicit in producing an operating system that will render even recently bought machines all but obsolete. "There will be thousands of dumped monitors, video cards and whole computers," said the Green Party's Sian Berry. "Future archaeologists will be able to identify a Vista upgrade layer when they go through our landfill sites."Of course nobody is forcing you to buy Windows Vista - and at &pound;249 for the most advanced version, they're not exactly giving it away - but sticking with your present operating system will not necessarily spare you from Upgrage. If you've got kids you have probably watched as the latest version of a children's game reduces your home computer to a juddering piece of yesterday's junk. If you've got a broadband connection then your computer is endlessly upgrading itself, sometimes without your knowledge. It's impossible to open a program without being told that a newer version of iTunes, Adobe Acrobat, Internet Explorer, QuickTime or RealPlayer is available. The new version will ostensibly be much better than the old version, but all you know for certain is that it will be much bigger.They rarely give you the chance to say: "No, I am not interested in this latest drain on my computer's already overtaxed resources." Often the newer version will have some kind of conflict with some other software, or your printer, or your graphics card. Chances are this will mean nothing to you, until something goes wrong. Meanwhile your operating system, be it Windows XP, Vista or the upcoming Apple Leopard, will be updating itself automatically - even as you sleep, if you leave your computer on all night, which you shouldn't, by the way. Likewise your anti-viral and anti-malware programs will also download little updates on your behalf, the idea that the more frequently these things are updated, the safer you are."There is the feeling within the computer industry that they are giving you upgrades for you own good, and often that is the case," says Sarah Kidner, assistant editor of Computing Which? "We advise that people should keep their operating systems up to date and should download the update to the operating system. Usually they are to fix vulnerabilities." Some critical updates, however, are more critical than others. One famous update, as noted by the Guardian's Paul May in his Technobile column this week, was Microsoft's Update 833407, which removed two swastikas and a Star of David from the Bookshelf Symbol 7 font, thereby spoiling countless neo-Nazi newsletters.Often these updates are whole new versions of perfectly good applications, although they are not always billed as such. Microsoft's version 7 of its Internet Explorer browser was presented to Windows users as a "high priority auto-update" of version 6 in November, when it was really more of a software upgrade, according to Kidner: "It's like me going out and buying a new version of Word." In the past three months, IE7 has been installed on more than 100m computers, amid concerns that it is more vulnerable to hackers than its predecessor.It is a rare week when a little balloon does not pop up from my taskbar announcing that "updates are ready for your computer". The constant pestering I receive from my anti-spyware program - Hi! Don't mind me, I'm just acquiring some important new features! - sometimes makes me wonder if life wasn't simpler when I just had lots of spyware. In the course of the working day, updates and upgrades are now a familiar part of the barrage of distractions that includes emails offering "cheap v1agra" and pop-up ads for mortgages. When updates arrive you must stop what you're doing, download a file, install a program, restart your computer and then relearn how to use some new and counterintuitive piece of software.For the most part these changes are invisible and harmless - and possibly even necessary - but eventually some little update will come along that your machine cannot handle. You won't know which thing, exactly, but certain programs will start to lock up while others will slow to a crawl. Your browser will encounter unspecified problems and shut down. Peripherals will refuse to operate. You, a rational person of the digital age, will be reduced to paranoid superstition. This is the first sign of Upgrage. It first happened to me when some run of the mill security "fix" automatically foist upon my computer prevented me from opening hundreds of documents, including the Help document which told you how to disable this very feature. I began to believe that powerful forces were conspiring to break my computer to force me to buy a new one. I cursed them. And then I bought a new computer.Windows Vista Upgrade Advisor 1.0 is now humming away, exploring the limits of my six-month-old laptop to see if it's computer enough to handle Microsoft's mighty new operating system. After some minutes I am given the bad news: "Your current graphics card will not support the Windows Aero user experience". I don't know what that means, and now, thanks to my graphics card, I will never find out. There is, I am told, a more suitable version of the new operating system called Vista Home Basic, which sounds like the software equivalent of a tin of supermarket own-brand cling peaches. "It will run on a much lower specification PC," says Sarah Kidner, "but the reason it's called Vista Basic is that it doesn't have Windows Aero. They can't have it both ways."Even if I were to opt for Vista Basic, Advisor 1.0 notes that I might have "minor compatibility issues" with seven programs I currently use, including the DVD player software and the program that makes my mouse work. Before I can upgrade, it seems, I will need to upgrade - a new graphics card, more RAM and a clutch of updates from the various manufacturers of various bits of hardware inside my computer. Not so long ago the pace of technological progress was stately enough that computers had time to break of their own accord. Hard drives crashed, CPUs melted down, laptop screens died. Now the machines are simply outpaced by the software that is loaded onto them, usually over a period of months rather than years, and certainly well within the time frame of those ridiculous extended warranties computer salesmen push.I am trying hard to regard my all-but-brand-new laptop as a piece of "sufficient technology" - good enough for my humble needs, and therefore good enough - but knowing that it would struggle to cope with the most primitive version of Vista available makes me feel like replacing it at the earliest opportunity. Individually we may try to resist this trend toward instant obsolescence, but not without losing ground in the race toward - hang on, my anti-virus program is trying to tell me something ... No, look, this isn't a good time, I'm right in the middle of ... really? That important? Can I restart it later? No?We'll have to leave it there, I'm afraid. I won't be upgrading to Windows Vista myself, but if you're buying a new PC you will almost certainly get it as standard. Then you can sit back, turn on your brand new machine and await those first critical updates. Good luck to you.From punchcards to CDsSoftware upgrading has a long and undistinguished history, stretching back to the days when computers usedpunch cardsto tell them what to do. Back then, programmers would send their clients new pieces of card which had to be stuck over the old ones. As computers became smaller and more powerful in the1970sand 1980s, upgrades moved onto tape,floppy disksand eventually CDs. But it was the birth of theweb- invented byTim Berners Leein 1990 - that made upgrades part of everyday life. These days, most new computer programs and games are"patched"as soon as they are released to make up for problems with the code. And as new security holes are discovered or new bugs created - about150,000 distinct virusesare currently in circulation - programmers are forced to send out updates on an increasingly regular basis.The update crown goes toMicrosoft. As well as major software revisions that come along every couple of years, Windows users also receive a package ofdownloadable updatesonce a month - on what has become known as "Black Tuesday" to weary IT managers. Each update contains a library of smaller ones, sometimesas many as26in a single block. The monthly practice goes back to1998, meaning that there have been more than100 updatesto Windows and its programs in the intervening years.Bobbie Johnson
Bill Gates was in Bucharest on Thursday to celebrate the opening of another Microsoft global technical centre, and the Romanian president Traian Basescu paid the Microsoft boss homage for the value of Windows. Well, paying homage is a lot cheaper than paying for software.Reuters reports:"Piracy helped the young generation discover computers. It set off the development of the IT industry in Romania," Basescu said during a joint news conference with Gates."It helped Romanians improve their creative capacity in the IT industry, which has become famous around the world ...It's a bit unfair of Gates to take all the credit, of course. The Romanians pirated all the leading applications and games, not just Microsoft's.Presumably, Basescu also neglected to mention that Romania's world fame for IT skills is rather closely associated with its reputaton as a leading centre for virus writers, hackers, spammers and scammers.For example, it was from Bucharest that criminals stole scientific data from a research center in Antarctica, and threatened to shut down their life-support systems.But to be fair, Romania has been trying to stop it.As reported by BBC Newsin 2003:Computer programmer Varujan Pambuccian, a member of the Romanian Parliament, says that for too long, young computer workers in Romania have thought that hacking and writing viruses was a resume builder, the first step toward landing a well-paying computer security job."We're trying to explain to them now that this is not a way of finding better jobs. This is a way of finding better jails."
MondayMonday games confessionalPerplex cityPerplex City final puzzlePopcap and the zen of casual gamingGenre report one: StrategyTuesdayCalling all designers: reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS with gamesCastlevania, Worms and Paperboy on Xbox Live ArcadeNew rumble for PS3?The adventure continues on indie sceneWednesdayStill playing your WiibBay bans sales of virtual game goodsMobile gaming exec talks senseVista games analysis beginsPSP sales not greatThursdayReviewsInterview with Adam MartinFridaySlam into VistaPS3: let the bundles beginEA confirms Spore and Sims for DS
It's all over the web, but just in case you've missed it, EA has confirmed that it will be bringing Will Wright's ambitious evolve-'em-up, Spore, to the DS, along with My Sim. Theme Park will also be coming, as previously announced, while Sim City DS was given the official nod after widespread speculation.Previously, the publishing giant has put most of its might behind PSP, unsurprising considering the wealth of PlayStation franchises available for quick conversion. It's interesting to note the types of games getting the go-ahead - all PC majors, all employing the point-and-click interface. There's a clear strategy here.Plus, as far as I'm concerned, these are all EA's reallyfascinatingseries'. This is all good.
Worried that you wouldn't be able to buy a PS3 without having to fork out for an even more expensive bundle? Well, you were right. As spotted byGamesindustry.biz, HMV has sent an email out to customers today offering them the chance to pre-order a PS3 - but only if they're buying a 4GB PSP pack. The total outlay for this duo would be GBP675."At HMV.co.uk, we've been working with Sony to offer up to 5000 customers an incredible deal when you buy the new Sony 4GB PSP. Anyone who takes advantage of this offer will get priority over other HMV.co.uk customers for the PlayStation 3."Riiight. This is not about offloading your difficult-to-shift handheld consoles then? The deal does include copies of Killzone Liberation and Gangs of London, but what itdoesn'tdo is include a guarantee that takers will definitely get a machine on the launch day. Oh no, that's all dealt with in the T&amp;Cs: "HMV cannot guarantee that registration on the Priority List means that you will receive your PS3 on the estimated release date, nor that your order will be fulfilled within any given time frame."Sony told the site, "This is just one of a number of value added incentives that retailers will be offering to mark the launch of PS3." Value added incentive? Was there ever a more misleading phrase?
Here's a heartwarming Vista success story. Slam, a tiny Glasgow development studio with just six staff, has seen its casual title, Spinword, selected as a Windows Vista Showcase Game. The cute puzzler, downloadable fromThe MSN Games siteis in the illustrious company of Minesweeper, JewelQuest2 and other casual royalty."Spinword is a fast-paced and exciting word-based puzzle game. Players play in two ways: by making words and solving puzzles against the clock; or by making as many words as they can in a relaxing survival mode Immovable blocks, exploding blocks and obstacles on the board ensure players have to think fast, spell accurately and keep their eyes open to score as high as they can!"So if you can't get your NVIDIA or ATI graphics cards functioning properly, just chill out and try a Glaswegian word puzzle.
Last week's Friday Afternoon Question drew an interesting response when I asked what technology you missed the most.We heard some old corkers, and a few people decided to give us long responses. That's why I choseTribbleas the winner, thanks to the very succinct and business-like answer: "when did this become Friday afternoon essay ? For the succinctness I vote for the bug joystick - even though I preferred the quickpro". We'll be in touch!Sorry for the lateness of today's FAQ people - but I'll keep it open for a few days. With the big news this week being Microsoft's launch of Vista, which drew a fairly muted response (waiting five years tends to take the shine off anything, I find). Bill Gates gave it the "bigger, better, faster" routine and told us that the wow starts now. But there's always room for more, so:What is the dream feature that nobody has put into your computer?Do you want Vista to make the tea? Should OS X know when you walk in the room? Is there something they've all forgotten but seems blindingly obvious. Tell us, and the best one wins a prize.Warning: this is not a space for fanboy ranting - I genuinely want to hear innovative ideas that we haven't seen before - bad answers do not win prizes.
A couple of people have posted a short animated film on the X-Hawk urban VTOL aircraft (ie flying car) on YouTube, but if you are fussy, you can getthe 25 meg MPEG versionfrom theUrban Aeronauticssite.Although it looks like something out of 1950s science fiction, the Israeli developer has done a deal with Bell Helicopter of Fort Worth, Texas, and a mock-up was shown at last year's Farnborough International Air Show.Aviation International News has a good report.The story says:The X-Hawk has the promise of quick, almost stealthy reaction and below nap-of-the-earth flight in urban areas. The shrouded rotor design permits operation right up to the side of buildings. Indeed, Bell believes the aircraft could be used to accomplish "midlevel structure infill," loading and offloading people in a hover through windows above the ground floor. Sliding doors on both sides of the fuselage make this possible.Yeah, but "mind the gap" when you're 80 stories up....The main problem is that "It's a gas guzzler," as the designer, Dr Rafi Yoeli, admits. It will use about 50% more fuel than a small helicopter. The advantage is that it will be able to operate in urban environments, probably as a rescue vehicle.According toa more recent story(January 31) from AP:Mule, configured to carry two wounded people, will carry an estimated $1.5 million price tag. A civilian, 10-passenger version of X-Hawk, for use in rescue missions, utility work or executive transport, is projected at $3.5 million, while a military model carrying a dozen people and more sophisticated equipment would cost $6 million.If it works, it's probably not the sort of thing you'd be able to use for commuting. However, one day you might be able to buy one to replace your current Bell, since the X-Hawk should be able to find more places to land.
TheDemo 07 conferencein Palm Desert, California, appears to have been "won" by Zoho's onlineNotebook. Zoho's blog has a round-up of the comments on its own blog atZoho Notebook gets a tremendous welcome. This starts witha quote from PC Worldwhich says:it's also, in some important respects, among the most sophisticated Web-applications I've seen. It's Zoho Notebook - the latest in an every-expanding array of productivity tools from the folks at Zoho - and while it's reminiscent of Microsoft's OneNote note-taking application, I've never seen anything like it on the Web.Zoho is in the process of building aVirtual Officeonline.Robert Scoble has a brief list ofWhat's "cool" at Demo?with links to some video demos.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Jim Allchin siad he'd retire after shipping Windows Vista, and he's now said goodbye via the Vista team blog with a postabout his new life. For example:Went to clean up the playroom so that it's organized for when the kids get home. Ended up building an application to sort the Legos using a SQL Server backend and a Windows Presentation Foundation front-end on Windows Vista. Can't decide whether the primary index of the database should be color or size of the piece.(There's aChannel 9 videothat gives a better idea of what he was like.)With the retirement, Microsoft has also lost the (unpaid) services of one of its most influential user interface testers, Jim's Mom....Allchin has been replaced bySteve Sinofsky, who actually joined Microsoft a year earlier -- in July 1989. He moved to the Office team in 1994 and was responsible for the development of Office 2000, XP, 2003 and 2007. It won't be too surprising if he tries to do more versions of Windows and they ship closer together.The next scheduled version is due later this year with a Windows Server that has been developed from Server 2003. Since Vista is also based on Server 2003 code, there will be a long-plannedVista Service Pack 1to incorporate updated code where server development continued after Vista stopped.After that, there should be a Windows XP SP3 in early 2008, so I wouldn't really expect a Vista II before 2010-11. And I hope Steve's already decided that it will be 64-bit only, but I suspect not.
WarioWare: Smooth MovesWii, &pound;39.99cert 7+, Nintendo, 4/5The Wii and WarioWare is a match made in gaming heaven. Most Wii titles call for you to leave your pride and self-consciousness at the door, but none so much as Smooth Moves. The games revolve around slightly surreal mini-stories, such as cheering on an American football game or trying to jump the queue for steamed dumplings. The idea is to use the controller in a variety of different positions (the Mohawk, the chauffeur, the janitor etc) to complete simple tasks quickly. Successful completion unlocks more gaming areas. Unfortunately, Smooth Moves only supports one controller - a real frustration when you indulge in the 12-player party games.Rhianna PratchettWoW: Burning CrusadePC, &pound;29.99 (plus &pound;8.99/month)cert 12+, Blizzard/Vivendi, 5/5With 8m players, World of Warcraft is a genuine phenomenon. So the release of Burning Crusade, the first expansion pack for the game, is big news. Adopting an "if it ain't broke" philosophy, TBC continues the addictive adventuring of the original game, giving veterans a new landmass to explore and the chance to further evolve their character. And if you've ever wanted to create your own jewellery or control a flying mount then this is your chance. So far, so good, but it requires serious commitment to even get to the stage where you can experience this new content. Realising this, Blizzard has created two new races, complete with impressive new cities and environments that feel part of the original world. The sense of place, so key to WoW's success, is as strong as ever. A must for veterans and with enough content to attract new players, Burning Crusade is a masterful continuation of a classic game.Greg HowsonEvery Extend ExtraPSP, &pound;29.99cert 3+, Q Entertainment/Buena Vista Games, 4/5Tetsuya Mizuguchi seems to be on a one-man mission to restore the PSP's credibility, with a string of original games kicked off by the fearsomely addictive Lumines II. Ever since his glorious-looking Rez, he has sought to generate unusual gaming experiences by mating trippy visuals with music, and Every Extend Extra is his best realisation of that vision so far. It's an update of a retro space-shooter with a twist: you don't have a gun, but instead you blow yourself up, in such a way that exploding enemies take out others in close proximity, causing chain reactions. Every Extend Extra is gloriously simple - you move around the screen, can charge your explosions giving a bigger blast radius, and must gather power-ups to extend your playing time and generate bigger waves of enemies - but it feels fresh in gameplay terms, and is satisfyingly hard. And with some of the most psychedelic visuals ever in a game plus great music that responds to what is happening on-screen, it's a must-buy if you own a PSP.Steve Boxer&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Early VistaWith Windows Vista now available, I'm still deciding whether to jump in right away or not. Am I going to be forced to buy new versions of all of my favourite programs?Tracy MarksJack Schofield replies:Most major applications seem to work fine with 32bit Vista and there's a list atiexbeta.com. But there are lots of changes under the hood, so programs that work at a low level are much more likely to have problems. Examples include anti-malware and CD/DVD burning software.However, software houses have generally had time to produce patches or updates. You may have much more trouble getting new drivers for some broadband devices, graphics cards, printers and other peripherals, where required. The cynic in me suspects that some suppliers take their time because they would much rather you bought a new one.The cost of savingYou have advised against the use of "packet-writing" software when putting data on to CD or DVD. Do you have to wait to collect enough data for a full DVD, or have I missed something?Mike TrotterJS:For archival storage, you should use the most secure and reliable method, which is to write a whole CD or DVD at once. You can still use packet-writing software (which treats an optical disc like a floppy) for short-term storage and it's better than no backup. However, if you buy them by the hundred, good quality CD-R discs cost 10p each by mail order, or 20p each on the high street. The cost of a month's backup discs is not much more than a London bus ride. How much would it cost if you were to lose one day's data?Backchat&middot; Mike Haslam complains about my "basic arithmetical error" in last week's column about HP and Dell. He says: "95% of 40m is 38m, leaving 2m with gripes." True, but tens of millions of Dell PCs are still in use from previous years!
Ministers have revealed a glimpse of the carousel of payments circulating between state bodies to fund the national output of public-sector information. Two of the most successful operators in this market, Ordnance Survey and the Meteorological Office, rely on other state bodies for 47% and 36% of their income, ministers told parliament this month.The Guardian's Free Our Data campaign proposes an alternative: cut the red tape and make public data freely available to both public and private sectors. In response to questions from Labour MP Derek Wyatt, Angela E. Smith, local government minister with responsibility for Ordnance Survey, said that in 2004-05, 47% of the mapping agency's turnover came from directly licensing products to public bodies. The figure is in line with that claimed by Ordnance Survey's chief, Vanessa Lawrence, in the Guardian's Free Our Data debate last summer.However the minister said that the licensing figure excluded a direct central government subsidy, for "national interest" mapping. With the licensing income, this would have taken the government's share of Ordnance Survey's revenue to more than 50%, almost certainly exceeding the cost of creating and maintaining the core MasterMap geographical database of Britain.Another question uncovered an inevitable overhead of running Ordnance Survey as a business: it employs six lawyers and last year spent &pound;556,000 on external legal advice. While that may not be much in the software business, it would certainly be lower if Ordnance Survey did not have to negotiate legal terms for licences with other public bodies.Meanwhile, defence minister Derek Twigg shed some light on the extent to which another successful trading fund depends on government support. Answering a question from Conservative MP Mark Lancaster, Twigg said that of the Meteorological Office's revenues of &pound;170m in 2005-06, 36% came from central and local government. The scale of such payments being made between different arms of the state calls into question the government's claim that its mapping and meteorological agencies operate on a commercial basis.One argument for free data is that it would be more efficient to fund essential activities such as MasterMap directly from general taxation and make the resulting data freely available on the web, cutting red tape for government users and encouraging innovation in the market. The campaign is attracting growing interest.Critics say that the case for free data is unproven: there is a dearth of evidence comparing like-for-like between "free data" and "user pays" systems. This is a fair point, and more evidence is needed. Mechanisms would also need to be found to protect the quality of mapping and meteorological data under a free regime.However, in other arms of the state, especially those that do not rely on data sales for funding, the case for free data is compelling. We also believe that phony transactions between different pockets of the public purse are a nonsense.&#183;Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
If you've had occasion to do a Google search on the phrase "miserable failure" over the past few years, you've probably found that the top result is the official site for George W Bush's presidency. It's there because of a campaign of "Googlebombing". A lot of people wrote the term "miserable failure" on their personal home pages and then linked it to the White House site. Google's search engine dutifully made the connection.But last week, after years of taking a fairly laissez-faire attitude toward Googlebombing, Google decided to put an end to the popular sport. It incorporated into its search engine a Googlebomb-sniffing algorithm that somehow manages to identify and neutralise any concerted effort to skew search results for a word or phrase.Googlebombing was amusing at first, but it got old fast. So I'm perfectly happy that Google is giving it the heave-ho. It's like scrubbing graffiti off the side of a subway car.But there's a deeper story here, and it lies in Google's explanation for why it finally decided to defuse Googlebombs. You might assume the company was acting out of a desire to present better results, or to counter internet vandalism, or simply to serve the public interest. But you'd be wrong.What drove Google to act was its fear that Googlebombing was tarnishing its painstakingly controlled image.One of the company's top engineers, Matt Cutts, explained the move on a Google blog: "Because these pranks are normally for phrases that are well off the beaten path, they haven't been a very high priority for us. But over time, we've seen more people assume that they are Google's opinion, or that Google has hand-coded the results for these Googlebombed queries. That's not true, and it seemed like it was worth trying to correct that misperception." (googlewebmastercentral.blogspot.com)The company is allowing concerns about its public image to influence the search results it dishes up. The upshot in this case may be salubrious, but what kind of precedent is being set here?And, perhaps more important, what does it tell us about what's inside the Google black box that determines how most of us find information on the web most of the time?Three years ago, when Google was first asked about Googlebombing, it gave the corporate equivalent of a shrug. It's not our problem, the company's technology director, Craig Silverstein, told the New York Times. "We just reflect the opinion on the Web, for better or worse."The implication was that Google's search engine was a passive feedback mechanism that reported the public's wisdom - or stupidity - back to the public. Reflecting all the strengths and flaws of democracy, it was the people's machine. Google itself had little control over it. (nytimes.com)The perception of Google as an honest broker, disinterested in the information it presents, remains a popular one. We like to believe that "we the people" control what comes out of Google's mouth.But while that may have been true once, and while it was in fact one of the company's founding ideals, it's not so true any more.Google's search engine originally worked according to a simple principle: web pages were ranked according to the number of links they received from other sites, with each link weighted to reflect a site's popularity. That principle is still part of the equation, but Google's software has become much more complicated over the years.Its search engine operates according to an array of sophisticated and secret algorithms crafted by the company's brilliant coders.It's a machine that's been tweaked to do precisely what Google instructs it to do, even if that might mean filtering results to protect the company's reputation.Google may have good in its heart. It may, for the time being anyway, be fighting on our behalf to bring order to a chaotic internet. But let's not forget that Google's machine is not our machine. It's Google's, for better or worse.&#183;Nicholas Carr is the author of Does IT Matter? He blogs atroughtype.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The palpable sigh of relief emanating from the games industry last week when Sony finally announced that the PlayStation 3 will reach the UK on March 23 was swiftly drowned by howls of outrage from consumers (expressed vehemently on The Guardian's gamesblog) regarding the next-gen console's RRP of &pound;425.Hard done-by UK gamers were understandably unhappy at a price that compares unfavourably, to say the least, with US and Japanese prices of $599.99 and &yen;60,000 - roughly &pound;300 and &pound;250 - respectively. So why will the PlayStation 3 cost so much more in the UK, even though we will have waited four months longer for it than the Americans and Japanese?There was only one thing for it: an audience with Sony Computer Entertainment's UK managing director, Ray Maguire - the man who dictated the PS3's UK price. Maguire puts the finger on a number of reasons. First comes the most obvious: VAT. He says: "There's a compulsion within the media to look at everything as a snapshot, and do a calculation, normally based on just the RRP in somewhere like the US and just the RRP in the UK. What you should do with the RRP from the US is add sales tax."Currency relationshipsMaguire adds that VAT varies from "lesser" rates in mainland Europe to an "extortionate" one in Ireland. Which does, at least, explain why the PlayStation 3 will cost &euro;629 (&pound;415) in Ireland as opposed to &euro;599 (&pound;395) in continental Europe. But merely adding VAT of 17.5% to the US RRP would take us up to &pound;352 - a still whopping &pound;73 premium.Maguire argues that merely comparing RRPs is too simplistic an approach, due to exchange rate considerations: "When businesses trade, they hedge. It depends what currency you're buying against. We don't buy anything in dollars, so the dollar can go up and down. If it were $1.40 to the pound as it was a while ago, then the PS3 would be a bargain compared to the US; if it's anything more than that, the UK price appears to be comparatively expensive. But we're dealing with euros and yen - it's about the relationship between those currencies."Maguire points out that a fluctuation of 2p on the sterling-euro exchange rate - from the current 66p to 68p - equates to a &pound;12 swing on the cost of a PS3, which would roughly put the UK on a par with the rest of Europe.He adds that the cost of living is higher in the UK, which means Sony has to pay UK staff more, transport to shops is more expensive and retailers take a bigger chunk than in the rest of Europe. But when he points out that he has to hedge against currency fluctuations - "You don't want to be in a situation where you're looking at a variable RRP: you have to have that fixed. So no matter what happened this year to the euro, even if it started going the wrong way, we would not put the price up" - he's on shakier ground, implying that he has erred on the side of conservatism in Sony's favour as far as the PS3's price is concerned. Nevertheless, he insists: "Of course, I would dearly love to have the PlayStation 3 RRP under &pound;400, and at such time as we can afford to do so, we will."Consumer demandThe PS3 price controversy could have been alleviated somewhat if the cheaper version of the machine - with a 20GB instead of 60Gb hard disk, no built-in Wi-Fi and no memory card slots, which Maguire has said in the past would retail for around &pound;350 - was also going on sale, but there will be no 20GB PS3s in the UK at launch. Why?Maguire says that's consumer-led: "They want to put their own media on it from day one. So a big preference has been shown towards the 60GB model. And when we look at the sales figures from both Japan and the US, that's reflected at retail. You can either have not enough of both in the marketplace for day one, or you can have round about the right amount of one." Again, Maguire's words contain a hint of disingenuousness: consumers can still get their photos and video on to 20GB PS3s via USB cables, and the hard disk is user-upgradeable.In the meantime, we can take our medicine or pray for the pound to collapse (which would bring about different woes), or for the euro to collapse against the yen (which might let us buy cheaper PS3s from Europe, which would upset UK retail). And that presumes exchange-rate fluctuations actually would have an effect on the PS3's price - rather than marginally reducing the loss on every unit that Sony sells.Under starter's ordersThe PS3's launch line-up of games is - typically for a new console - sketchy, with a preponderance of games that have already appeared on the Xbox 360. But there are some compelling early efforts.MotorStorm - Developed in Runcorn, of all places, this high-octane off-road racing game features machinery ranging from dirtbikes to trucks, racing around a startlingly realistic rendition of Monument Valley, and mud with varying levels of squishiness. The best advert for what next-generation gaming is all about.Resistance: Fall of Man - This first-person shooter may seem conventional when compared with the groundbreaking Gears of War on the Xbox 360, but it's meaty, well made and absorbing, with a decent storyline and great weaponry.Formula One - Stunning-looking, with incredible dawn practice and wet-race effects, plus great car-feel - but it's hardly original.Virtua Tennis 3 - The PS3 version of Sega's tennis game is gloriously playable, and its virtual players are extremely lifelike - but you can't play it online, unlike the Xbox 360 version.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I feel slightly giddy when I can blow raspberries at naysayers who dismiss my years of fascination with Super Mario Bros as devoid of relevance to the real world. This week I've had a flurry of raspberry-related activity thanks to Ofcom's discussion document, A new approach to public service content in a digital media age.The main premise is that content designers who wish to gain public funding for a proposed new media publisher should put forward projects that combine user-led experience with users' own contributions made via whichever technological means are at hand. The authors of the paper allude to choose-your-own-adventures for the digital age, making you and your community the heroes of your own game. In other words, the document argues that public-service providers should come up with stuff you can play with, with other people, via new media.Obviously, not all public content deals with fun issues, and so content designers should make provisions for a wide "ludic spray", ensuring that there are playful activities that surround events, objects or traditional programming. Such ludic play, an idea expounded by Katie Salen and Eric Zimmerman in their book Rules of Play, helps to form community, ensures that properties experience longevity and helps new forms of creativity emerge.For example, the real money transactions for virtual goods from massively multiplayer online games are undoubtedly offshoots of playful activities that occur outside of games' objectives. You don't just pay money to a virtual gold dealer to move towards the game goals; you pay money so you, a time-strapped office worker, can hang out in Azeroth with your unemployed mates.Even more closely linked with the discussion are Alternate Reality Games, which take ludic play so seriously that it is essential to their designs. Literally everything in the real world might fall into their spray, and sharing ideas and theories is part of the fun in ARGs.Most naysayers are hopelessly old media, entrenched in their one-to-many broadcaster models. But what they're missing is that the new media revolution has highlighted that everyone plays. We surf, we tweak, we mash up, we blog. It's how we grapple with new concepts, new ideas and new experiences.Play is an essential part of how we make sense of our universe. Formalising its role should result in compelling approaches to community and public service.I am pleasantly surprised that all of the exploring I've done in my life, guided by a pixellated plumber named Mario, will have so much relevance to the world around me.&#183;blogs.guardian.co.uk/games&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A trope in science fiction films is the person standing in front of a transparent screen, manipulating the images there: think Tom Cruise in Minority Report or Ben Affleck in Paycheck. It's the multitouch screen, but with a screen that's disappeared.Transparent screens don't exist - yet. But Tobin Marks, a professor and synthetic chemist at Northwestern University in Illinois, is trying to turn this science fiction into fact."I like to make unusual things and process unusual things in unusual ways," Marks says. "You can imagine a variety of applications for new electronics that haven't been possible previously - displays of text or images that would seem to be floating in space."Shunning siliconWe're not talking about holograms here, but see-through colour screens fixed to transparent backing materials like glass or plastic. For example, Marks imagines a vehicle windscreen that could display a route map, military goggles to give soldiers information, or even a shop window that doubles as a billboard - switch it off and the billboard becomes a window again.By shunning silicon, Marks has made a new type of thin-film transistor (TFT) from inorganic and organic materials. Thin-film transistors are commonly found in LCD TVs and computer monitors as well as mobile phone displays. Marks's research group has combined films of an inorganic semiconductor - indium oxide - with a multilayer of self-assembling organic molecules for insulating properties. The result is a transparent, high- performance thin-film transistor that can be assembled inexpensively on glass and flexible plastics while outperforming silicon transistors.But all this is only halfway to transparent monitors. In your PC screen, opaque TFTs drive pixels - liquid crystals - that act as tiny shutters to a light source behind them. Put the invisible electronics behind the pixels and the result is remarkable.Marks's idea is to combine transparent transistors with existing light display technologies, such as organic light-emitting diodes, liquid crystal or electroluminescent displays. "Examples could include visors for motorcyclists, assembly line workers, soldiers and athletes. More exotic would be displays as in the film Minority Report, which seem to be floating in air," says Marks.Dr John McCardle of Loughborough University, a lecturer and researcher in electronic product design, says: "Transparent electronics at first glance offers an exciting and attractive proposition. There's the obvious integration into transparent products such as windscreens, spectacle lenses and improved computer displays. We even have the possibility of enhancing solar panels where windows could double up as power generators."McCardle points out that thin-film components use less energy to manufacture. But also he likes the idea of hiding the "ugly technology" of components, wires and printed circuit boards.Although his ideas for invisible electronics go beyond those envisaged by Marks, McCardle suggests some rather more sinister angles not seen in films. "There is the inevitable interest from the military sector and its use in covert surveillance is assured," says McCardle. "Where do we stand when there is the potential to be surrounded by invisible cameras hidden in windows and mirrors?"Dr Henning Sirringhaus of Cambridge University, a co-founder of Plastic Logic, is developing a flexible plastic display for portable electronic readers. While Sirringhaus appreciates the new applications for invisible display electronics, he has other ideas to do with the aperture ratio: the proportion of thin-film transistor to each pixel being driven.In a typical LCD screen, the light source is behind the pixels which change shape to allow light through. If you looked at a single pixel through a microscope, you'd see a thin-film transistor blocking one corner. The trick is to make it as small as possible so that it lets through the most light.Energy efficient"On each pixel of the display, you've got one transistor. That transistor is used to turn on and off that pixel. With transparent electronics, in principle, you could use the whole pixel. You'd have a higher resolution and better contrast," says Sirringhaus, who reckons such displays might be more energy efficient too.He's also fascinated by the idea of information displayed on devices such as your car windscreen. Invisible electronics, he adds, is a concept looking for the right technology. Although Marks has now made a major breakthrough, we're still a long way from the big screens you see on the big screen.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I don't often read the same book with one copy in each hand, but revisiting George Orwell's 1984 last weekend I made an exception. In my left hand was a faded Penguin paperback bought many years ago and in my right the same book on Sony's eagerly awaited PRS-500 portable reader with its much vaunted "e-ink" which may, or may not, change the future of reading as we now know it. I chose 1984 out of 18 books, including the Da Vinci Code, that had been pre-installed for the trial.It starts with the familiar: "It was a bright cold day in April, and the clocks were striking thirteen." There were no immediate surprises except, of course, that instead of Big Brother watching us, as Orwell imagined, it turns out that we are all watching Big Brother. Sony's electronic reader - slightly smaller than the paperback - had twice as many pages, mainly because it had bigger print. It was also twice as heavy (320g on the kitchen scales) as the book but still pretty light in itself and since it can store a whole library of books inside, it has some claim to be the lightest travelling library in the world.The e-book is easy to read with its e-ink, one of its pioneering features which successfully mimics printers' ink on a white-ish background - and it doesn't come off on your fingers. The print size can be increased 200%, making it easier for the partially sighted and enabled me to read without my glasses. It was the best reading experience I have had on a screen, but not as good as reading a real book - though I was beginning to doubt even that the more I got used to it, especially reading over lunch. I found I could leave the book on the table, increase the type size and turn the pages with a touch from the little finger of my left hand while still holding a fork. You can't do that with a real book.Page turns are easy - you just press buttons on the left of the device or at the bottom - and the device can easily be held in one hand if you want to. The 6in screen, irritatingly, goes black for a moment as you wait for the next page. This is the only time it actually draws power, thereby enabling a long battery life. There is no backlight, which is part of the reason it is easier on the eyes so if you wanted to read it under the bedclothes you would need a torch. You can also make electronic bookmarks and there is an audio function - but you can't search back for characters whose names you have forgotten. It would have been better if it used the lovely technology employed on the British Library's online manuscripts enabling you to finger a page and watch it turn over instantly.That raises an important point. You have to take it as it is. Early blog reviews in the US have ranged from "Got this piece of junk for xmas ... PDF transfer is a joke and it doesn't reflow. Do not waste your time or your money" to "the first truly satisfying e-book".No, you can't download YouTube videos; it is not a computer; it's only black and white; yes, you are locked into some of Sony's proprietary restraints; no, it hasn't got wireless connectivity for downloading new novels online. You are largely confined to Sony's library, with warnings against copying content. One wonders what George Orwell would have thought about that nearly 60 years on.While the e-book would never pass a techno-hubristic review that immediately looked for what it cannot rather than what it can do, it does what it claims very well. It is fit for purpose. It has obvious attractions, even at a price of $350 (&pound;178), for business people on the move and if you can find 12 books you want on holiday from Sony's library it will save a lot of weight in your suitcase. I guess it would be difficult to read in bright sunlight on the beach but Guardian funds didn't run to testing that. It would be easy to read a newspaper on a device like this (and also to charge for it) which has interesting possibilities for my industry. The key thing is, it makes reading on a screen pleasurable. That is saying something.&#183;vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
There's a popular - for reasons I can't follow - program for the Macintosh called Delicious Library (delicious-monster.com), which like all the best internet ideas puts the onus of doing the work and investing the time on you, the user. It's for cataloguing any item whose barcode might be carried on Amazon, such as books, movies, music and video games: you scan the barcode with your webcam and the program looks it up online and tells you what you just showed it.Pardon? Yes, it repeats back to you what you own, and creates a catalogue on your computer of things outside it. As I said, I don't understand why it's popular, though I'm happy for the developer that it is, since he's put together some neat ideas (like a barcode-scanning system via webcam) and tapped into the geek's ultimate drive - to organise every corner of his life. I wonder how often the barcode for the Getting Things Done book comes up.But as I cleaned out the fridge the other day and discovered a pot of something whose best days, allegedly, passed sometime around the start of the year, I began thinking that some variation on the Delicious Library model is becoming overdue. We keep hearing about "smart fridges" that will note what we put into them (correction: that we'll tell what we've put into them); the most recent sighting came on ourTechnology blogon about the same day that my fridge's pot's contents were taking their first steps along the line to becoming an independent civilisation. Yet such fridges never appear. Or at least never in any shop I've ever been in.There's a good reason why smart fridges, as laid out in all those forecasts, haven't happened. It's because we're lazy. Are we really going to scan the milk each time we take it out of the fridge, and then scan it when we put it back in? Of course not. Plus, the barcodes don't contain information like best-before dates. But wait! The cry from the geekerati (perhaps the ones who use Delicious Library) comes: why not put RFID chips in everything? Ah, but, too expensive.That's what's really standing in the way of the smart fridge: the things that would make it smart. RFID (radio frequency identification) tags are tiny, the sort of size that Tomorrow's World felt compelled to put on the end of a finger and say how many would fit on it. (A lot - you're already down to about 0.02 square millimetres with the smallest passive one from Hitachi.) But they're also pricey. RFID chips, in case you'd forgotten the fuss about them from a couple of years ago, are generally just passive radio antennae connected to a chip which pings back a serial number. The trouble is that the price per tag has barely fallen below 5c (2.5p) in the US. It's uneconomic to tag things that are inexpensive - such as most food - so the chance of the smart fridge ever appearing at all must wait on the arrival of really cheap RFID chips. Cheap enough to put on the carton of milk, the pat of butter, the pot of whatever that stuff that I found in the back actually was. We're stuck with dumb fridges.The issue of electrosensitivity, which James Randerson wrote about (Electrosmog in the clear with scientists, January 18) doesn't want to go away. Our mailbox is still pinging with anecdotes and pointers to studies: the latest being an international one, which surveyed people who had glioma (a tumour of the nervous system) and asked them which side of their head they'd held their mobile phone to (Study hints at tumour link to mobiles, January 26).Strangely, those who have pooh-poohed the results of studies that don't suggest any link have trumpeted this one, which might point to a weak connection, depending on how reliable peoples' recollection of 10-year-old habits is. So, do mobiles cause glioma? More importantly, what is already shown to?AnAmerican studyin 2003 suggested that the following had an elevated risk of glioma: butchers and meat cutters, electricians, farmers and farmworkers, inspectors, checkers, examiners, graders and testers, physicians and their assistants, store managers and, um, computer programmers and analysts. Sorry about that. Shall we wait for the next study?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Well, up to a point. Copy protection seems to be intact, which the Hollywood studios and big noises in pop music will be glad to hear. HD-DVD movies are already available - including blockbusters such as Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire and Batman Begins - even though the machines to play them on are still very much the preserve of the early adopter.What has been cracked is the playback protection, which was meant to ensure that you couldn't play an encrypted DVD on a dodgy player. A cleverclogs called muslix64 last month posted on a hackers' forum that he'd managed to find a way to get around the encryption on the HD-DVD format. More recently he applied a similar technique to Blu-ray DVDs. Both these formats use HDCP - high-bandwidth digital content protection - to establish and authenticate an encrypted digital connection between the player and the DVD.Muslix64's technique doesn't actually crack this technology; it sidesteps it by extracting the key from the DVD. This means it gets around the content protection of a DVD but crucially leaves the copy protection intact - for now. Muslix64, who describes himself as an "upset customer", posted an open source application to extract the keys which, he says, took him just eight days to cobble together.So will the naughty boys (never us, of course) be able to rip and share next-gen DVDs in the way that they now do with old-skool DVDs? "If you can play it, you can decrypt it," muslix64 told Slyck, the filesharing forum.The history doesn't look good for the entertainment industry. Pretty much all the existing DRM technology has been cracked or is easy to get around. So far this is just one breach in the wall - but it will weaken the defences.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Make it smallSony will enter the UK's ultraportable PC market with the Vista-capable Vaio UX1, which weighs only 480g and has a 4.5 inch widescreen.sony.co.ukFarewell to floppiesThe PC World chain says it will stop selling floppy discs when current stocks run out. However, 2% of the PCs it sells still have floppy drives.pcworld.co.ukThis time it's personalStreamburst has a new approach to copy-protecting videos: it adds your name to the start of the clip and watermarks the file so it can be tracked back.streamburst.co.ukPlayStation Inside OutThe English National Opera (ENO) has launched a website about La Boh&egrave;me as part of a Sony PlayStation project.playstationseason.comSpam spam spam spam spamThe volume of spam emails rose to 94% in December, according to a report from Postini.postini.comPlayStation 3 at a lossSony's game division lost &yen;54.2bn (&pound;227m) in the quarter to December 31, due to selling PS3s at less than cost.PDF standards playAdobe says it will make its proprietary PDF (portable document format) an ISO international standard.adobe.comBee-based commsRuBee (IEEE 1902.1) is being developed for short-range wireless communications and could compete with RFID. We already have ZigBee (IEEE 802.15.4)wikipedia.org
Microsoft's strategy for making sure your computer stays up to date relies on the brilliant assumption that you leave your PC on all night. I don't, possibly because I want to save the ice caps, but more likely because I'm very, very cheap. I also have this primitive belief that shutting down my PC will give it a chance to do a little housekeeping and let its poor transistors have a rest.The Automatic Updates feature on Windows is set by default to go hunting for new titbits for the operating system at 3am, install any it finds and reboot your machine. If you're not planning to be at work in the small hours, you won't get the service.So, you dig around in Control Panel to find the little blighter and change its feeding time to something sensible, like high noon. And then one day you're making a presentation to a room full of excitable suits. Suddenly, they're shouting, "Behind you, behind you!" Windows has sneakily sucked down a bellyful of updates, security updates and hotfixes and is threatening to reboot - and it's counting down. If you manage to stop it before it pulls all the blinds down, it'll sulk for five minutes and then have another go.You need to slap down Automatic Updates again. Tell it: "Download updates for me, but let me choose when to install them." This ought to be the default setting, and the final part of the instruction should obviously be "... you idiot". Perhaps Microsoft will fix it in a forthcoming release.What are all these updates anyway? Well, some of them are fixes that stop nasty new worms. Some are tweaks, like the famous Update 833407 of February 2004 which removed two swastikas and a Star of David from the Bookshelf Symbol 7 font (get yours now!).And some of them seem to be designed to assign your carefully nurtured peripherals to the scrapheap. This happened to me when I blithely accepted an update to Windows Media Player 10 which resulted in WMP cutting my MP3 player dead. I thought WMP 11 might fix the problem; how naive! Apparently I am the problem. WMP 11's error message has changed subtly from WMP 10's "I-don't-know-what's-up" shrug to something like "your-MP3-player-is-like-ancient-dude".Now my PC is going "Psst! Wanna try IE7?" but I'm not falling for it. I hear that the new Vista version of Windows has something called Restart Manager which will - wait for it - shut down individual apps you're working with, mess with their mojos and then put them back up for you. Automatically! Because it's 3am, right? It's not like you're doing anything important.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I spy with my little eyeI wanted to point out a couple of factual errors in the article pertaining specifically to Zango (Why I can never agree with adware and spyware, January 25). The American Federal Trade Commission investigation concluded in late 2006 was not "litigation". And the Federal Trade Commission's investigation did not yield "millions of dollars in fines", as incorrectly stated in the article. Zango settled the FTC investigation; it was not fined.Steve StratzZango, Seattle, USTG replies: See theFederal Trade Commission website: we should have said that the settlement of the FTC's charges required Zango to "give up $3 million in ill-gotten gains"Huge potentialRobert Pope's MySociety mash-up (Don't panic: we'll email if we want to demolish your house, January 25) is to the government's planning portal what the Arctic Monkeys are to Cliff Richard, but it has its limitations.What if I have a favourite beauty spot, beach or plot of land I wanted to be kept informed about? With access to other datasets, it could be turned into a more advanced geographic information system and something really neat. But it goes some way to demonstrate the huge potential of modern mapping technology.James ThompsonLocal Government Strategist, ESRI (UK), AylesburyTLD should be child's playI can't see why someone doesn't push .kids again (Why the .xxx would anyone want a top-level domain for porn?, January 25). Previously a reason this was rejected was that child protection groups said there were too many loopholes, and others that there was the problem that is this is a global TLD - so who decides what is appropriate for kids? But it makes much more sense rather than pushing this preposterous idea for .xxx that seems to be only wanted by ICM Registry.domainnews.comFull of hot airSony's attitude to customers is contemptible (Technobile, January 25). My new Vaio laptop had a battery life of less than 30 minutes. The cause? The battery supplied was only half-full, literally: half the case was filled with fresh air. The answer? &pound;199 for a replacement, full, battery.Se&aacute;n KellyLondonSpam gets everywhereSpamming doesn't just affect blogs - it is equally unpleasant on user forums too. Recently on one forum for a multimedia cataloguing program spammers were registering so their URLs appeared in Google, then some started new threads, but the breaking point was when some began responding to legitimate posts too. This meant people were getting emails notifying them of a reply to their posts - only to find it was spam. It was only stopped when I told the program developer that I and other leading posters would boycott the forum until new members needed to be approved before they could post. That sorted it out - well, sent the problem elsewhere.John BeardsworthLondonJoost factsI'd like to point out a few inaccuracies in your article on Joost, where I work (What is Joost all about, January 18). One, it's pronounced more like "juiced". Whether the homophony is deliberate only Janus and Niklas know.Two, you end one paragraph by saying it could easily consume 1GB an hour, and then start the next by mentioning the correct figure of a maximum of 320MB/105MB per hour - the more users who have content to put back in to the system, the lower that figure will go.Third, users will not be able to upload their own content, for both quality and legal reasons. We're not aiming to allow any Tom, Dick or Harry to upload rubbish &agrave; la YouTube.Fourth, we don't really "operate from Luxembourg" - we have some servers there, but no staff or offices.Mat HallJoost&#183;Read all this weeks letters in full atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
. The UK launch was held in the glittering British Library conference centre in the exotic St Pancras area of London, where virtual Leonardo da Vinci notebooks set several pulses racing. All in all, Microsoft put on a terrific 55-minute press conference, with the main drawback being that it took something over two hours. It was, unintentionally, a pretty good representation of the five or six years spent on Vista's 2.5 year development.One of the more unusual sights of the day was of Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates wearing a suit instead of an open-necked shirt and cardigan. Was the message that Vista was now a serious business? More than likely, this was not a sartorial statement. Gates was just dropping in between the Davos conference in Switzerland, the Vista launch in New York and Microsoft's Government Leaders' Forum in Edinburgh. It probably saved changing.Of course, it is somewhat hard to put on a show about Windows Vista and Microsoft Office 2007 when they have already been delivered to business users, after extensive testing by around 5m users, who argued almost every tiny feature to death.Indeed, more clued-up members of the audience were already running the programs on their notebook PCs, while blogging the event live. No surprises there, then.But as a launch, it was not without feeling. Specifically, it included a cameo performance by Dan Gillespie Sells, lead singer with those local purveyors of civilised pop, The Feeling. He picked up his guitar and sang to illustrate Vista's musical features - the ones from the old Media Center version of Windows - and as a taster for the whole band's free performance on the plaza outside the library.It was good stuff, but laid back compared with Manhattan, where Steve Ballmer's launch featured 16 spandex-clad "aerial dancers" dangling from a tall building to form the shape of the Vista and Office logos, as a human billboard, and the musical highlight was provided by alt-rock supergroup Angels and Airwaves.And even that fell a very long way short of the hysteria that surrounded Windows 95's unveiling, a dozen years ago, when the launch events featured hot air balloons and submarines, and the paths of several minor planets were diverted.Way back then, of course, Gates only appeared at the UK event via satellite. Instead, we were treated to Jonathon Ross wearing a purple suit. He may not command quite the same esteem as da Vinci, but no one in the audience fell asleep.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Image courtesy of Bjorn BulthuisWe've all heard a few strangegeek wedding stories. But how about this one?Bjorn Bulthuis, a student in Canada, proposed to his girlfriend using a Mac dashboard widget he'd hacked together especially for the purpose. Thevictimhappy recipient of affection tells the storyhere, but the picture tells you pretty much all you need to know.
BT, Britain's phone company, runs a Home IT Advisor service. Sometimes the questions raise a smile....Customer: How do I change channel on my monitor? Advisor: Your monitor won't have channels like a TV. Customer: But I was watching the internet channel the other day and now I just get the word processing channel.Advisor: Can you click on 'My Computer'? Customer: I don't have your computer, just mine.Customer: My 14 year-old son has put a password on my computer and I can't get in. Advisor: Has he forgotten it? Customer: No he just won't tell me it because I've grounded him.And on a statistical note, the company says:* The average home has 1.6 computers. * The average age of callers is 54, and callers represent almost an even split between men and women (55% men, 45% women) * One of the most common IT problems is about installing security software (17%) * The most common help given is to set up a wireless broadband connection (16 %)
The usually reliable BB Spot has come up with anessential guide to Vista upgrades. An added bonus is that you can print out its Windows Vista Upgrade Decision Flowchart and stick it on our wall.....Update: how sweet: this story (not this post) is now up to 3,456 diggs.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..What does 'unlimited' mean?When it comes to broadband, it almost certainly doesn't mean what you think it does. As SA Mathieson reports, ISPs are increasingly managing how customers connect.PS3 launch price is no fun for UK gamersWe have to wait longer for the new PlayStation to be released here - and we'll have to pay more for it too, says Steve Boxer. (And seethis blog posttoo.)Bureaucratic nonsense of the government's money-go-roundFree our data: Ministers have revealed a glimpse of the carousel of payments circulating between state bodies to fund the national output of public-sector information.Why having fun is being taken more seriouslyAleks Krotoski: I feel slightly giddy when I can blow raspberries at naysayers who dismiss my years of fascination with Super Mario Bros as devoid of relevance to the real world.GamesOn the reviewers' screens this week: WarioWare: Smooth Moves, WoW: Burning Crusade and Every Extend ExtraNewly Asked Questions:Has the DRM of the next-gen DVDs really been cracked?Well, up to a point, says Kate Bevan. Copy protection seems to be intact, which the Hollywood studios and big noises in pop music will be glad to hear.What was The Feeling at the launch of Vista?Wild excitement, obviously, given that Microsoft's slogan was 'The 'wow' starts now', says Jack Schofield.Read me firstNicholas Carr: 'Miserable failure' Bush rehabilitated as Google steps in to defuse the Googlebombs.Reading on a screen is pleasurable at lastVictor Keegan: I don't often read the same book with one copy in each hand, but revisiting George Orwell's 1984 last weekend I made an exception.TechnobilePaul May: Windows is just like a sulky child - it wants its updates NOW and it will not take no for an answer.A picture paints a thousand invoicesMoves by big picture agencies to enforce their copyright can have expensive implications for careless web developers, says Wendy M Grossman.Fridges will stay dumb until chips are as cheap as chipsCharles Arthur: There's a popular - for reasons I can't follow - program for the Macintosh called Delicious Library, which like all the best internet ideas puts the onus of doing the work and investing the time on you, the user.A clear view of the futureInvisible electronics sound like science fiction - but developers are already working on them, writes Michael Pollitt.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.Letters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.NewsbytesMake it small | Farewell to floppies | This time it's personal | PlayStation Inside Out | Spam spam spam spam spam | PlayStation 3 at a loss | PDF standards play | Bee-based comms
With Windows Vista now available, I'm still deciding whether to jump in right away or not. Am I going to be forced to buy new versions of all of my favourite programs? Tracy MarksMost major applications seem to work fine with 32bit Vista and there's a list atiexbeta.com. But there are lots of changes under the hood, so programs that work at a low level are much more likely to have problems. Examples include anti-malware and CD/DVD burning software.However, software houses have generally had time to produce patches or updates. You may have much more trouble getting new drivers for some broadband devices, graphics cards, printers and other peripherals, where required. The cynic in me suspects that some suppliers take their time because they would much rather you bought a new one.
You have advised against the use of "packet-writing" software when putting data on to CD or DVD. Do you have to wait to collect enough data for a full DVD, or have I missed something? Mike TrotterFor archival storage, you should use the most secure and reliable method, which is to write a whole CD or DVD at once. You can still use packet-writing software (which treats an optical disc like a floppy) for short-term storage and it's better than no backup. However, if you buy them by the hundred, good quality CD-R discs cost 10p each by mail order, or 20p each on the high street. The cost of a month's backup discs is not much more than a London bus ride. How much would it cost if you were to lose one day's data?
In this week's Technology supplement,Steve Boxer takes a look at why the PlayStation 3 is so expensive for British customers- and asks Sony Computer Entertainment UK boss Ray Maguire what the reasons are. Maguire flips between the usual suspects; VAT, currency valuation and"There's a compulsion within the media to look at everything as a snapshot, and do a calculation, normally based on just the RRP in somewhere like the US and just the RRP in the UK. What you should do with the RRP from the US is add sales tax."But as Boxer points out, UK VAT would take the RRP to just £352. So instead, Maguire says that it's actually too easy to compare RRPs without taking into account corporate currency management."When businesses trade, they hedge. It depends what currency you're buying against. We don't buy anything in dollars, so the dollar can go up and down. If it were $1.40 to the pound as it was a while ago, then the PS3 would be a bargain compared to the US; if it's anything more than that, the UK price appears to be comparatively expensive. But we're dealing with euros and yen - it's about the relationship between those currencies."From the figures I'm looking at, the last time the dollar was $1.40 to the pound wassix years ago(less than a year after PS2 was released). Maguire also blames high living costs and staff expenses in the UK (as opposed to, say, Japan?).Update:Over on theGamesblog, commenter Graham says "The GBPUSD exchnge rate ... has only been below this level on 15 days in the last 16 years."Anyway, here's the point: the PS3 is hugely expensive, and more so in the UK than anywhere else it's is being released. Why can't Sony - and all the other companies who cash in on "rip-off Britain" - admit that it's simply the price that the company believes we will pay for the machine?
It was one of those nights on Wall Street yesterday, with two very different tales coming from two very different companies.On the one hand, Michael Dell took back day-to-day running of the company he founded after the resignation of boss Kevin Rollins. With earnings dropping and Dell the biggest name to be hit by last year's exploding battery problems,experts are saying it's a good thing:Charles Wolf, an analyst at Needham &amp; Co, said the company's finances had been deteriorating: "There's been no turnaround and the bottom line is that Michael is the one who built the company. On balance I would say this is probably a necessary move."Things were looking a little better in California than in Texas, asGoogle reported that profits doubled. The company now commands more than $10bn in revenue per year - but the huge hype-bubble surrounding the company, however, meant that expectations had actually been higher.But its shares fell 2.9% in after-hours trading to $486, as it met - but did not exceed - forecasts. Analysts said the hype around Google had pushed expectations to a level almost impossible to satisfy.You can't win them all. But while Google looks fairly steady, will the changes at Dell make a difference?Charles Arthur adds:Michael Dell's return marks the third re-accession of a departed chief executive to a computer company he founded that I can think of. The evidence though is mixed.The first you may be familiar with: Steve Jobs returns to Apple in 1996, takes over again as chief executive in 1997. The stock price has done pretty well - see thisYahoo chart of that period. Remember, the stock price at any time is (near enough) the stock market's expectation of how much profit it expects each share to yield in the company's lifetime.Second returnee: Ted Waitttook back the reins at Gatewayin January (it must be the cruellest month) 2001, very much like Dell has just done - getting out of his chairman's, um, chair and ditching the CEO. Gateway was then in the midst of a terrible downturn (30% sales fall from the previous year) and was short on cash too; its future looked limited. At the time an analyst was quoted saying:"The question is, do they have a terminal disease?" Kumar asked. "The prognosis is not good, given their heavy dependence on the consumer market and on top of that the U.S. market."Since then? Thing improved enough that Waitt left the Gateway board in 2005 to take upphilanthropic and business interests. Hisstock chart isn't so rosy, but things could be a lot worse for Gateway.So it's 50-50 whether Michael Dell will be able to make it shine, or see it go, well, not so well. We've started the stock tracking..This graph showing therelative stock performance of Apple, Dell and Gateway since July 2004, when Rollins was appointed CEO, is pretty indicative of why he went: the stock went from $34.84 to $24.22 - a 30% fall. You can play with the timescales to see how it tracks for other significant events: Jobs was appointed interim CEO on Sept 1997. (According toApple's PR library, history didn't exist before then.)
In researching the article on Microsoft's Alternative Reality Game marketing campaign fortoday'snext week's paper, I met and interviewed a whole host of great people. One of them was Adam Martin, the editor of theInternational Game Developers Association's ARG White Paperpublished late in 2006, former CTO of Mind Candy and current Lead core programmer at NCSoft, agreed to answer a few questions about the attraction of ARGs to non-(video)gamers. Along the way, he inadvertently highlights a few problems with the way computer games are currently designed.What is the appeal of ARGs?It's mainly two things: firstly, they're very easy to start playing; secondly, the core gameplay provides rich experiences in areas of gaming that very few traditional games excel in - rich, deep stories; gameplay based on "personal skills" (persuasion, negotiation, consensus-building, etc);Personal skills in particular are something that you very rarely get to exercise in any traditional game. In a traditional game, the options are usually limited to two or three set-phrases you can select between at each point in a conversation with an NPC. In ARG's, the NPC is usually a real live person, and you can do *anything* you like to persuade them to help you - from making them laugh by telling jokes through to evoking strong empathic emotions such as pity.Why do they appear to bridge the gap between computer gamers and non-(computer) gamers?Non-gamers have countless reasons not to play computer games, and ARGs variously erode, remove, or sidestep those reasons.For instance, any game that involves a two-handed controller covered in buttons and (multiple!) joysticks can be very off-putting to the large number of people who've never played games on such a controller before. The current consoles have approximately 15 separate buttons, and gamers have learnt conventions of which buttons do what. Game designers tend to follow those conventions fairly closely (they're usually based on which buttons are easiest to reach individually and/or in combination), and so a gamer can pick up a new game and be reasonably competent very quickly. Anyone who's never played those games faces a huge learning curve before they can even get to learn how to play the game itself!By contrast, ARGs require no special skills or knowledge of conventions other than those you encounter every day in your daily life. If you know how to use Google, how to make phone calls and send emails, how to surf the web for information, and how to find your way around a new city using the map, the tourist info, etc, then you're fully qualified as an ARG player already.How much does an ARG typically cost to make?This is one of the biggest differentiators between sub-types of ARG, so there's a couple of answers:Independent ("grassroots") games, those produced for fun or as a learning experience for the developers, tend to cost from a few hundred dollars to a few thousand. It's easy enough to make these games at no cost at all, although a little expenditure can add a lot of value to the gameplay, and so usually the authors spend at least something. This works because by far and away the biggest cost in producing an ARG is time - if the authors are not paying themselves, then it's practically free to run.Marketing ARGs typically cost in a similar range as other professional marketing campaigns, although probably a lot cheaper for the value that the client gets from it (measured in exposure, press coverage, etc) - anything from a hundred thousand dollars up to a million or more.Commercial games can cost anything in between, and - interestingly - can adapt their costs over the lifetime of the game as necessary to fit their income. Usually they'll cost slightly more than a marketing ARG because they're aiming to provide an equally rich and powerful game experience, yet with the added difficulty of having to keep the service running over a longer period of time than just one short campaign - but they can peak at much higher costs, depending upon how many people you want to reach and what the revenue model is. Unlike almost all traditional computer games, developers have a lot of direct control over their cost base for an ARG.Why are ARGs effective marketing tools?Because they're more interesting than reading yet-another attempt to grab your attention in 2 seconds by using just a picture, or an animation, and a few words of text in a fancy font? :)Seriously, though, and comparing like-for-like, ARGs rely on viral marketing as a large part of their spread. This is even more true than for traditional viral marketing campaigns, as this viral mechanic is not just the way the message spreads, but also fundamental to the gameplay - if it isn't done well, the gameplay will suffer, and the ARG will crash and burn even faster than a crass attempt at viral marketing.Although you have to be careful when talking about viral marketing - there's a lot of cynical usage of VM around, and it's generally got a bad reputation amongst many consumers. ARG authors generally strive to provide something that is amenable to spreading virally without feeling they have any right to expect or demand that it work - they know that if they do a good game well, it will spread, and that they have no more control than that.What is the future for ARGs (independent and product-based)?The low-cost, high-penetration, the wide demographics they cover, and the heavy involvement of creative thinking and imagination from the developers make them a prime target for an even greater role in the wider marketing industry. This is likely to be the easiest market for them to grow into in the short term - there are many brilliant creatives in marketing who would love to make much more interactive, game-like, campaigns but for whom the mainstream games industry is too lumbering and/or specialised for them to get into.That holds true for the games industry too - there is plenty of room for much smaller-scale ARG's being used in marketing of new games, especially online games. Halo/ILoveBees and Gun/Last Call Poker were both great campaigns, but the possibilities could be explosive for fully online games like WoW that are more naturally able to intermesh with an ARG. The biggest opportunity here is that such games could have permanent ARGs running intermeshed with them throughout their lifetime - since they already have constantly changing content, they can weave outcomes from the ARG back into the core game, giving players the sense of an "ability to affect the game-world" that is so hard to provide in mainstream MMOG's, and yet so often asked-for.From the games side, I think we'll see a game soon that successfully merges the primary ARG elements with a simpler game style - probably borrowing heavily from the conventions and ideas of the Casual Games industry - and gets just the right mix at the right time that it explodes in the same way as sites like MySpace. I don't think there's anything that's quite there yet, although many things are coming ever closer - ARG developers tend to be great at producing stories and rich experiences, but lack the shorter, brighter, more visceral ideas and brilliance at "polishing" that characterise Casual Games.If PopCap or Real/Zylom moves into making an ARG, that's the moment you'll see the next sea-change in the industry. But, personally, I think it'll come from a tiny independent, a group of friends or students doing everything off their own backs who happen to get it just right.
Lots of gaming stuff in the paper today. First up is a look at thePS3 pricing farcein the UK - it's all about VAT and cost of living apparently. MeanwhileAlekstake a look at the concept of play and how fun should be taken seriously. And then there arethe reviews, with Burning Crusade, WarioWare and Every Extend Extra proving that this January has bucked the usual post Christmas gaming slump.
There's no such thing as a free lunch. And despite what you may have seen in adverts, there's no such thing as an "unlimited" home broadband account, either. One person who discovered this was Stuart Aspland, an NTL Telewest customer in Swansea. Every evening, he'd start using his "unlimited use" 10 megabit per second (Mbps) service; and every evening, its speed would halve after about 20 minutes."Technical support tried to tell me there was no such problem," he says. It suggested he restart his connection. He did - and the connection speed halved after 20 minutes. Aspland was almost certainly seeing the results of efforts by NTL Telewest to shape users' data demands. NTL Telewest recently started a technical trial which halves the connection speeds of some 10Mbps users in Swansea, after several months doing so in and around Preston and Blackpool. "We look for abnormal traffic, such as continuous and full use of the downstream over a prolonged period before halving that user's speed," says NTL Telewest. This will return to normal "after a short period unless the abnormal traffic continues. So there's no capping and no cutting off of services."In an era when we're led to think that bandwidth is plentiful, why is there capping at all? Most ISPs rely on BT Wholesale to do some or all of the work connecting users to their central systems. In 2004, BT Wholesale started offering services priced mainly by capacity - the amount of data that can be carried every second - rather than the number of users or amount of data moved. Angus Flett of BT Wholesale says it now bills most big ISPs this way.ISPs have to manage users' demands if they are to offer simple-to-understand but cheap services. They do so partly by relying on most customers wanting only a few gigabytes of data each month. But they also have to stop heavy users from overloading their capacity, particularly at busy times. ISPs including Tiscali and Carphone Warehouse connect many users directly to their own networks through local loop unbundling (although often using BT wires between exchanges and these networks) while NTL Telewest has its own cable network, called Blueyonder. But again, the cost of equipment and maintenance is linked to capacity.Heavy usersTo avoid their networks being overloaded, ISPs have introduced techniques such as traffic shaping to slow the heaviest users. "Two or three years ago, 'unlimited' meant something different," says Andrew Ferguson of thinkbroadband.com. "ISPs would tolerate people who really caned a connection for a month - people who used 300, 400, 500GB." But now, he says, many ISPs make it tricky to download more than 40GB. ISPs say these techniques improve the service for most users at the expense of a small minority, such as those making heavy use of peer-to-peer software. Some peer-to-peer users attempt to disguise their traffic through encryption, to avoid traffic shaping.With fast download speeds, a few heavy users can have a big impact. PlusNet provided Guardian Technology with data for the average usage of each 10% of its customers in December, as well as each percentile of the top tenth. The resulting curve may be less steep than for other ISPs, as it has been traffic-shaping for more than 18 months, but Neil Armstrong, products director, says: "We do have plenty of customers downloading several hundred gigabytes a month; as long as they do it overnight, we don't mind." The top 1% each used an average of 120.94GB, nearly double the 66.03GB used by the next percentile. The average customer used 6.19GB, although removing the heaviest 10% of users cuts that to 2.35GB.PlusNet caters for heavy users with what could be called a "time-capped" account: it allows users to download 20GB per month between 4pm and midnight, and any amount outside those times. It doesn't use the word "unlimited": "We think unlimited broadband is a complete myth," says Armstrong. "You can only do it by lying to your customers, as the economics don't work."It prioritises traffic through deep packet inspection, which recognises the kind of software using a connection. Online gaming and Voice over IP phone calls get the most reliable service, then email and web-surfing, then peer-to-peer transfers. Users who exceed their monthly caps go to the back of the queue, but can monitor online how much data they have used, and through which kinds of software.Jody Haskayne of Tiscali, which labels all its services as "unlimited, subject to fair-use policy", says it cuts the speed of peer-to-peer software when necessary, although not below 10% of the available bandwidth. She adds that most customers use less than 3GB a month, and that telephone complaints about traffic shaping do not enter the top 20 queries. "We have tried capped products in the past," she says. "But customers didn't really understand what they could do."Some ISPs charge for excess use rather than cutting people off. BT Total Broadband emails such customers, suggesting they upgrade to a higher-volume account. If they do not, from the second month of overuse it charges 30p per gigabyte over the limit. Pipex, Madasafish and Nildram have formal pay-as-you-go plans.Ferguson of thinkbroadband.com says pay-as-you-go provides clear rules. But the fair-use policies under which demand management is enforced are usually opaque: "If I queue up three or four films and they all download, does that kick me into traffic-shaping?" he says. Mark Jackson, editor of ISPReview.co.uk, says: "This tactic is being employing by an increasing majority of mainstream providers and while the definitions and policies may differ, they almost all share one thing in common: a lack of specific detail."Following the rulesSome ISPs do publish their rules. For example, Entanet, which has around 60,000 broadband customers, says that when its network's five-minute average usage hits 96% capacity, it cuts the speed of all 8Mbps users by 0.5Mbps, repeating this every minute until capacity drops below 96% or the speed reaches 2Mbps.In future, more ISPs may sell services with appropriately tailored download speeds. BT Total Broadband says films and television programmes bought from its BT Vision service will not count towards usage caps - unlike material from free services such as YouTube and Joost.For those who feel unfairly caught out by traffic shaping, persistence may be required. Aspland - who used to work for NTL Telewest - realised he had been caught in the half-speed trial.He asked to move to a &pound;24.99, 4Mbps connection from his &pound;34.99-a-month, 10Mbps - although usually 5Mbps - service. Then he threatened to cancel broadband, phone and high-definition television. Result: the customer retention department halved his broadband charge and cut the other costs, and he relented. But Aspland still wants his fast connection back. "I've always recommended friends use NTL," he says. "The customer service may be rubbish, but the broadband is great."&#183;A free bandwidth meter is available atrokario.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
