The P5 Wireless are British audio manufacturer Bowers &amp; Wilkins’s first Bluetooth headphones with excellent sound but half-baked wireless and controls.They look nearly identical to the company’s wired P5 on-ear headphones and with vaguely retro styling including chromed rods and black leather ear pads.On-earThe on-ear design means they sit on the ear rather than over it with the solid ear pad pressing the whole of your ear into the side of your head. For short listening sessions they are quite comfortable – light on the head and stay put – but longer listening sessions become painful as they pinch the ears and make them sweaty.It’s worth noting that on-ear headphone comfort varies person to person and by the size of ears and whether you wear glasses.The left ear cup has a microUSB port for charging and a power slider, which puts the headphones into pairing mode if held down for a couple of seconds.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe P5 Wireless sound top notch. They have a decent, rounded sound with punchy but not overpowering bass and good detail and separation between instruments. They are some of the best sounding on-ear headphones I have ever listened to.Their sound isolation is not quite so impressive. Ambient noise is dulled, but voices and sharper sounds are clearly audible through the headphone ear cups meaning I was consistently forced to turn up the volume to drown out my daily commute.What, no wires?So far everything is the same as the wired variant of the P5, but its when Bluetooth and playback controls come in that Bowers &amp; Wilkins starts to falter.There is no near-field communications (NFC) built into the headphones, so they have to be manually paired via Bluetooth to a smartphone. Once paired they work fine for the most part, but they will not automatically reconnect as almost all other Bluetooth audio device do when turned on.That means you have to manually dig into Bluetooth settings on the phone and reconnect – an unnecessary few steps which are simple but get frustrating fast.The playback and volume control buttons on the right ear cup are ill fitting with the rest of the headphones.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe pause, play and volume buttons also feel cheap, and the lack of dedicated track-skip buttons is disappointing. Double and triple pressing the play button to skip forward and back does not always work well.Battery life is pretty good, lasting around 16 hours in my testing streaming music from a variety of smartphones and tablets. Charging takes a couple of hours via micro USB.The P5 Wireless can also be used with a cable, which is inserted inside the headphones behind the left ear cup. The pad is held on by magnets, which hold it in position quite strongly. It’s a bit fiddly, but once inserted it looks like the wire should always be there.The ear cups are held in place by magnets.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPriceThe Bowers &amp; Wilkins P5 Wireless cost £330 – £80 more than wired P5 Series 2 costing £250, and £80 more than wireless rivals such as the excellentPhilips Fidelio M1BT.VerdictThe Bowers &amp; Wilkins P5 Wireless sound great, look decent and are comfortable for short listening sessions. They last long enough to not have to worry about charging them and are relatively compact for traveling.But they have annoying niggles to do with Bluetooth and control, which aren’t acceptable on a pair of headphones costing £330. The auto reconnection issues might be fixable with a software update, but the lack of dedicated skip track buttons or NFC is just irritating.Pros:good detail, bass and punch, long lasting, comfortable for short periods, stay put on the head, look goodCons:playback control buttons are irritating, no NFC, no Bluetooth reconnect, expensive, don’t fold downOther reviews•Five of the best Bluetooth headphones to break free of cables•Parrot Zik 2.0 review: wireless headphones designed by Philippe Starck
More than 70% of Apple’s most senior executives are white men,the company’s first official diversity filings show.The technology company, which has repeatedly refused to release its US government-mandated diversity report, on Thursday finally released its Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO-1) report showing that 60 out of its 83 most senior US employees were white men (72%). There were also 12 white women.Among the 83 senior executives there was just one Hispanic person, two black people, eight Asians people and no people of any other races. The report is dated July 2014.apple diversityAcross all levels of the company, 61% of employees were white and 71% were male, according to the report. Just 8% were black, 0.5% native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, 0.4% American Indian or Alaskan native, 11.5% hispanic and 16.3% Asian.The company had, until now, refused to publish any of its EEO-1 reports despite the Rev Jesse Jackson, president of the Rainbow/Push Coalition,making a personal appealto Apple CEO Tim Cook to do so at the company’s shareholder meeting.Applesaid it has significantly increased its diversitysince the July 2014 EEO-1 filing, but did not release its official 2015 EEO-1 filing.“In the past year we hired over 11,000 women globally, which is 65% more than in the previous year,” Cook said on Thursday. “In the United States, we hired more than 2,200 black employees – a 50% increase over last year – and 2,700 Hispanic employees, a 66% increase.“Some people will read this page and see our progress. Others will recognize how much farther we have to go. We see both.”Cookcame under increased pressureto release the EEO-1 filing following the personal intervention of the country’s most powerful African American politicians earlier this month.Jackson welcomed Apple’s publication of its EEO-1 as a “positive step” but urged technology companies to go even further in making their diversity statistics transparent.“RainbowPush has asked companies to go beyond the EEO-1 report and provide additional, comprehensive, transparent data points, showing year over year numbers and percentages relating to hiring of women and people of color in the tech and non tech sectors; in leadership positions; retail and their supplier diversity spend,” he said. “This data provides a much clearer picture of what companies are actually doing.”While Apple’s employee base is far from as diverse as its customers, it is much more representative that some other Silicon Valley companies.African Americans representless than 1.5% of Facebook’s 5,479 US employees. Mark Zuckerberg’s company hired 36 black employees last year out of a total headcount increase of 1,216. In 2013,Facebook hired just seven additional black people, including just one black woman.Twitter employsjust 49 black people out of a total US workforce of 2,910.The tiny number of African American staff – 35 men and 14 women – represents just 1.7% of Twitter’s US staff.African Americans account for 13.6% of the US population, according to the 2010 US census.
The internet is ruining dating for everyone – or has it always been like this?A Vanity Fair piece published this week struck an ominous tone for 2015’s singletons. Headlined “Tinder and the dawn of the dating apocalypse”, it was brutal about the New York dating scene, placing the blame squarely at the feet of Tinder and other dating apps.Following the piece,Tinder’s Twitter account had a bit of a tantrum, criticising the piece’s author Nancy Jo Sales and hailing “the Tinder generation”.The Tinder Generation is real. Our users are creating it. But it’s not at all what you portray it to be.&mdash; Tinder (@Tinder)August 11, 2015Hadley Freeman was among those to point out dating has always been a bit strange.She wrote:At the risk of indulging in the kind of generalisations of which Carrie Bradshaw was so fond, New York dating is a weird mix of frenetic meet-ups and Edith Wharton-like formalised unions of those from similar backgrounds. (For examples of the latter, I refer you to New York Times Vows column, which in one recent and typical entry mentioned eight times that the featured couple had attended Yale.) I dated in New York in my early 30s and can verify that the horrors described in Vanity Fair’s article are very real. But seeing as I lived there before Tinder even existed I, like Carrie Bradshaw, could not blame the dating app for any of them.Meanwhile, the internet is awash with tales of online dating gone awry. Take Instagram accountBye Felipefor example, which collates some truly baffling, and often abusive, messages received by women on all sorts of dating sites:But is modern dating truly in a catastrophe? Has Tinder ruined relationships for everyone? Or has dating always been this way?We want to hear your tales of dating in the internet age: whether you’re a seasoned user of dating sites or prefer something a little more old-fashioned. What are your experiences? If you’re in a relationship, how did you meet your current partner? And if you’re not, what have been your experiences so far?If you would like to share screenshots of messages you’ve had on dating sites, please bear in mind we will not publish anything with identifiable information such as photos and usernames.Related:How to survive the dating apocalypseShare your photos and stories using GuardianWitness by clicking the blue ‘Contribute’ buttons. Or if you’re out and about you can download theGuardianWitness appor look for our assignments in thenew Guardian app.Those submissions will be published on GuardianWitness following moderation - but if you prefer to submit something privately, you can use the form below.GuardianWitnessis the home of readers’ content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.
Samsung has launched two new phablets, the Galaxy Note 5 and S6 Edge+, in its war with Apple and LG to maintain its large-screen smartphone crown.The Korean company made the surprise move of releasing a larger variant of its popular Galaxy S6 Edge rather than simply sticking with its Note line of phablets, which launched in 2011 and defined the new half phone, half tablet category.The Galaxy S6 Edge+ is a bigger version of the5.1in S6 Edge, with a 5.7in quad HD AMOLED screen with curved edges. The S6 Edge was a surprise success, expected to only account for a small proportion of sales compared to the standard S6 with no curved edges. A large proportion of pre-orders and initial device sales swung in the S6 Edge’s favour causing Samsung tostruggle to meet demand.The Galaxy S6 Edge+ is the spitting image of the S6 Edge, just bigger with a 5.7in screen.Photograph: Alex Hern for the GuardianThe S6 Edge+ has similar specifications to its smaller sibling, with Samsung’s own Exynos octa-core processor, 4GB of RAM and a choice of 32 or 64GB of storage.Despite already having larger, phablet-size smartphones such as the Note and Mega series, by releasing a “+” version of the S6 Edge Samsung is in direct competition with Apple’s 4.7in iPhone 6 and 5.5in iPhone 6 Plus.Phablets accounted for 21% of US smartphone sales in the first quarter up nearly four times year-on-year, according to data from Kantar Worldpanel.For Samsung, its curved screen edges, which are unique to the company, are a differentiator that offers added functionality without detracting from the smartphone’s core functions. But Samsung will have to prove that the edges aremore than an aesthetic choiceor gimmick, and can be of use for more than a few limited apps.Note with stylus survivesThe Galaxy Note 5 resembles the Galaxy S6 with metal edges, a glass back and a stylus embedded in the end.Photograph: Alex Hern for the GuardianSamsung also released an update to its Note series of phablets, which have styluses. The Note 5 has very similar specifications to the S6 Edge+, but lacks the curved screen edges, resembling the standardGalaxy S6in look and shape.The Note 5 has flat 5.7in quad HD AMOLED screen and a redesigned stylus that docks into the bottom of the device.“The new aluminium frame surrounding and housing the display is 1.7 times stronger and 1.3 times more scratch resistant than that of past Samsung devices,” said David Kang, vice president of Samsung mobile. “Our manufacturing processes have also meant that we can create a super slim base, meaning that both these 5.7in devices are narrower than some 5.5in devices.”The new releases mean Samsung now has two top-end phablets, a category where Android smartphones can still command a premium as the low end and smaller smartphones become squeezed by cheaper Chinese competitors.Samsung Pay on a Galaxy S6 Edge+ using the fingerprint sensor and near-field communications (NFC).Photograph: Alex Hern for the GuardianBoth new phablets support Samsung’s new contactless and magnetic stripe payment system, a touch fingerprint sensor as well as wireless charging. They both have 16-megapixel rear cameras with optical image stabilisation and five-megapixel selfie cameras.The Galaxy S6 Edge+ will be available globally from late August, with the Note 5 launching initially in the US and Asia.Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge+ on top, Galaxy Note 5 underneath.Photograph: Alex Hern for the Guardian•What Samsung needs to get right with the Galaxy S6 Edge+ and Note 5•Samsung Galaxy Note 4 review: big, powerful and Samsung’s best yet•Samsung Galaxy Note Edge review: curved screen is more than a gimmick•Samsung Galaxy S6 review: the iPhone killer•Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge review: curves for pleasure, not function
Samsung has justlaunched not one but two phablets, as it attempts to keep its large-screened smartphone crown.But in its war with chief rival Apple, its home country competitor LG, and Chineseupstarts such as Xiaomi, Samsung has to get some critical things right, as the bar has been raised for quality, price and speed.Simplified and bloat-free softwareThe Note series has always been praised for its stylus, which is the best in the phablet business, but Samsung’s other software additions to Android haven’t been quite so welcomed.Photograph: Alex Hern for the GuardianSamsung’s software is notorious. For years it applied heavy skins or modifications to the native Android experience provided by Google. Most manufacturers did, but Samsung’s was particularly garish, sluggish and bloat-ridden.The company has made strides with recent smartphone releases, cutting back on superfluous features, making its designs more attractive, and making its apps, which often duplicated functionality with those built into Android, optional downloads.The S6 Edge+ and the Note 5 are good opportunities to show that Samsung can create software that adds value, particularly for the curved edges and the stylus.The curved screen of the smaller,5.1in S6 Edgeprovided little in functionality, becoming an aesthetic choice rather than a functional one. On the smaller screen they did not detract from the experience, but on a larger device that is more difficult to hold, those touchscreen edges could be a hinderance.Samsung’s People Edge is one of only a few vaguely useful curved edge features.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSamsung has to make applications that add to the experience – and encourage others to follow suit. Likewise with the Note 5’s stylus, Samsung has to create a reason for a user to actually take it out and put tip to screen, rather that leave it buried within the device never to be touched.The problem Samsung has to overcome is how to make these features worthwhile and not simply added bloat that slows down the device and its software updates, which are vital to keeping a device secure and current.Sheer speedOne thing Samsung achieved with the S6 was the smartphone’s raw speed. It is still thefastest smartphone I have usedto date. Both the Note 5 and the S6+ must maintain that snappiness but they must also have decent battery life.Battery life is a primary pain point for most of the smartphone-using community. A large smartphone that only lasts one day is not good enough anymore. Sony and others have devices that last in excess of two days with general usage.Samsung’s response was to provide rapid charging via cable and wireless charging built into the S6, not longer battery life. Traditionally Samsung’s Note series has longer battery life, the S6 Plus and Note 5 must continue that trend.Premium materials that can’t be bentThe Galaxy S6 Edge+ and Note 5 both have metal frames, but will they bend?Photograph: Alex Hern for the GuardianSamsung’s high-end devices command a significant premium over lower-cost Android rivals. The Korean company has bet on bleeding-edge technology to make the £600 investment in a smartphone worthwhile, but the majority of Samsung smartphones over the last five years have been made of plastic, rather than premium-feeling materials such as metals and glass.Samsung’sGalaxy Alphaseries was the first of its smartphones to have metal frames, followed bythe Note 4,andlater the S6, which also has a glass back. Samsung’s design must keep up with its technology to be able to compete in the high-end smartphone market.Build quality is crucial as devices have shrunk in thickness while their screen sizes have continued to grow, leading to a decrease in rigidity. Apple’s 5.5iniPhone 6 Plus “bendgate”illustrated the problem, but was not alone. Samsung’s large but thin devices couldalso be bent within pockets.Samsung claims its new aluminium frames are 1.7 times stronger thanthe Note 4, I suspect it won’t be long before someone puts that to the test.TheGalaxy S6is arguably the best smartphone the Korean company has ever made, but even ithas not sold in the numbersSamsung needed it to. Apple reportedly attracted more Android switchers than ever with its bigger iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, showing the latent demand for big smartphones.Developed nations, including the UK and US, are near the smartphone saturation point, which means these two new phablets will be crucial for keeping Samsung on top. The company has to convince buyers they’re worth upgrading to. Whether they do remains to be seen.•Phablets take bigger share of US smartphone market as trend spreads•Samsung Galaxy S6 review: the iPhone killer•Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge review: curves for pleasure, not function
Rapture’s apocalypse is unlike those in other games. While you don’t initially know the cause, it’s clear it was no nuclear bomb or zombie horde. The tiny English village looks almost exactly as you’d expect one to have done 30 years ago, except that, as the title suggests, everybody’s gone.Games such as Rapture (often dubbed “walking simulators” by those who look down on them for having fewer traditionally game-like elements) commonly exclude human characters to ensure a more immersive experience, as in Gone Home, and developer The Chinese Room’s previous game Dear Esther. That raises the question here: what came first, the format or the story?You can’t see yourself, either, and it’s not made explicit who or what you are, but as you wander through the fictional but beautiful Shropshire village of Yaughton you hear footsteps, and if you try to walk under a washing line the sheets will drape over you. You can also open doors, though not all of them; realism aside I wish the developers had been consistent with their tendency to leave unlocked ones open a crack so that I hadn’t spent so much time trying them all.When you do get into a building, however, you’re rewarded with a detailed environment to explore. Houses are gratifyingly individual, with hints of the personalities of their departed owners. Pubs feel familiar despite the prices on the chalkboards – £2 for curry and a pint, 50p for an ale – which perhaps reflect the time period more than the cars and phones and Rubik’s Cubes.While you do get some hints from the environment, most of the narrative is conveyed through Rapture’s twist on the audio log format: short scenes in which the characters are represented by human-shaped swirls of light. They play out like witnessed conversations, albeit out of time and self-contained.A flying ball of light occasionally leads you towards these, but most are optional. Some trigger automatically when you reach a certain point, and it’s up to you whether you stick around or even follow the lights to keep up with what’s being said. If you find a light hovering in place, that means there’s one to activate manually, by tilting the controller to make the light move left and right until it hits the right spot. Presumably this was to make these feel more important, but it takes you out of the experience right before the game wants you to be most engrossed.Though the scraps of narrative are all connected, there are two stories being told. One is that of the departed villagers, which plays out in the witnessed conversations from the recent past like a soap opera or radio play. Most of this story seems to be about relationships – who’s sleeping with whom and who’s fallen out with whom – but it also touches on bigger topics, briefly, in passing: race, gender, ethics.Many of these conversations are from the period shortly before everyone disappeared, when people knew something was happening but didn’t understand what. As people seek out their neighbours to discuss the situation you realise why Rapture is set in the 1980s; nowadays we’d all just be on Twitter. You get to witness a believable rural English response to disaster: frustration at road closures, meetings in town halls, and even a literal “the show must go on” moment. “He had a rifle!” A woman exclaims with disapproving disbelief. “A soldier with a rifle, in Shropshire!”The second story is the mystery of why everybody’s gone, a science fiction that’s simultaneously over- and under-explained. A good chunk of this story comes from radios and ringing phones, and the messages often convey what you’ve either already worked out or heard before, perhaps because the radios are more hidden and the developers were worried you wouldn’t find them all.While you get the gist quickly, however, at a point the explanation devolves into fake science, personified in two scientists who gabble unintelligibly, even to concerned friends and family. One scientist gets more poetic, almost religious, towards the end of the game, but that ending left me with little to inspire further reflection; the more interesting story is the first (and maybe that’s the point).Everybody’s Gone to the Rapture is supposed to make you feel things, which is why it’s split into chapters that each focus on one person and end with a particularly emotional scene. Drifting light particles draw you in, maybe the sky shifts in an instant from day to star-studded night, andwonderful choral musiccoaxes a human response to the fiction before you. To get the full experience, however, you have to really want it. Despite the beautiful detailed environment and the promise of entertaining soap opera-style clips, Rapture is a real test of patience – because it’s just so damn slow.Technically, as The Chinese Room wrote just after release, you can “run” in Rapture by holding down the R2 button to slowly increase your speed. But even the top speed is slow enough that I spent a good deal of my time bored, and the game often slows you down further when you’ve entered a building or just witnessed something deemed important. Obviously you’re supposed to take your time, but therein lies the problem: any time I wanted to explore I balanced that desire with the knowledge that it would take ages to return. There’s also no way to mark where you’ve been, save in your own memory, though regular maps marked “you are here” track your overall progress.Rapture’s biggest weakness is bigger still, because those who are put off more thorough exploration will get less out of it than others. Some players will reach the end without knowing half the story. But maybe that’s okay. You get as much as you put in, after all, and the variety in experiences will give people something to talk about. And those who’ve already embraced the “walking simulator” will get stuck in with this next step in the development of the genre, and be rewarded for their efforts.
Remarkable footage of an eagle attacking and disabling a drone has taken the internet by storm, but it illustrates that drones can distress animals as much as they annoy humans.The drone was attacked by the Australian wedge-tailed eagle over woodland in the greater Melbourne area, sending it tumbling to the ground, as it saw the drone as a threat.Wedge-tailed eagles can fly at altitudes of up to 6,000 feet and are highly territorial. They have attacked helicopters and paragliders that have entered their airspace and have now added drones to their list of targets.Adam Lancaster, operator of the drone, said that the eagle appeared fine after the confrontation, but that the drone required repairing before being able to fly again.“Do not fly drones near birds of prey. They clearly attack, seeing you as a threat or the right-sized dinner. If you see a bird of prey while flying. Land,” said Lancaster.This isn’t the first instance of an eagle attacking a drone. A glider equipped with an autopilot designed to test flight mimicking the slope and soaring of birds by researchers from the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology was attacked and carried off by an eagle in May 2014.Eagle attacks and disables an autonomous glider.The US National Park Service implemented a ban on drones flying over national parks in June 2014 after a successful trial of the policy in Yosemite national park in California in May that year.“Drones can have negative impacts on wildlife nearby the area of use, especially sensitive nesting peregrine falcons on cliff walls ... creating an environment that is not conducive to wilderness travel,” theNational Park Service said.Birds aren’t the only animals who have attacked drones for invading their space. An eastern grey kangaroo attacked a flying drone that was nearing a joey after feeling threatened by its presence, permanently disabling the drone and sending it crashing to the ground in Australia’s Hunter Valley.Kangaroo attacks drone.A chimpanzee has also been caught on camera within Burgers’ Zoo in the Netherlands hitting a drone out of the sky and permanently disabling it using a stick. The chimpanzee then inspected the downed drone with other great apes. The drone was being used to record routine footage by the zoo operators.Chimpanzee attacks drone.The proliferation of cheap and readily available drones for personal and commercial use has raised privacy and safety concerns as they have left the law outdated – and have caused several near-misses with commercial aircraft.The rules on flying drones within populated areas are strict within the UK. Current UK legislation dictates that drones cannot be flown within 50m of a building or a person or within 150 metres of a built-up area. The maximum flight height is also only 400 feet, while the drone has to remain in line of sight and within 500 metres of the pilot, which has restricted attempts to use drones for delivery or surveillance purposes.Pilots must complete a training course and apply for a permit from the Civil Aviation Authority to fly the drone for commercial purposes.In the US, rules on drone flights are under review, fuelled by companies such as Amazon and Google looking to use them for deliveries. The US Federal Aviation Authority isseeking to enablesafe but regulated commercial drone flights.Their impact on wildlife – where drones are often used to capture footage for nature documentaries – will need to be taken into account within new flight regulations.•Amazon proposes drones-only airspace to facilitate high-speed delivery•First successful drone delivery made in the US•Drone firing handgun appears in video
Children’s app developer Duck Duck Moose has launched a new app that aims to blend the creative features of apps like Instagram and Snapchat with the educational resources on YouTube.WonderBoxhas been released as a free app for iOS devices, with Android to follow. The company is targeting parents as well as children in what it’s pitching as a safe space for families to create and share ideas.“We’re trying to provide a way for kids to explore any topic they’re interested in with their families and friends, and use open-ended creativity tools to express themselves,” said co-founder Caroline Hu Flexer.The app includes a catalogue of YouTube videos in categories such as science, geography and design, chosen by six teachers hired by Duck Duck Moose to curate WonderBox’s video content.It also includes 120 creative challenges, from inventing a plant or designing a superhero to making seashells talk, taking shadow photos or creating a weather report, using templates and digital tools created by the developer.Private messaging is also built in, but Hu Flexer said that each family’s account will be tied to a parent, who will be able to see what their children are sharing and who they are adding as friends within the app.As children use the app, they earn virtual coins which they can spend on new tools. Duck Duck Moose is not selling additional coins as in-app purchases.Related:Diversity in children’s apps: ‘Gender depictions tend to be very stereotyped’“It’s a completely free app. We have considered a subscription model, since the content will be updated regularly. But since the core of WonderBox is communication and being able to share with your friends and family, we wanted to make it as accessible as possible,” said Hu Flexer.“In the longer term, we will look at premium content, and possibly advertising to parents, although we do not have any plans to advertise to kids.”Duck Duck Moose is planning to launch a separate version of WonderBox for use in schools, with several of its previous apps, such as Moose Math and Pet Bingo, already used by teachers and their pupils.It is not the only company exploring how creative, social apps can be safe spaces for children.Moshi Monsters creator Mind Candy launched an app called PopJamlast year, pitching it as Instagram for kids. It remains available in public beta in the UK.
Windows 10 sends identifiable information to Microsoft, even if a user turns off its Bing search and Cortana features, and activates the software’s privacy-protection settings.Analysisby technology site Ars Technicahas shown that Windows 10 still contacts Microsoft even when these features are disabled, although some of this is simple and non-identifiable testing for an internet connection.However, other bits of information sent to and requested from Microsoft, including those associated with the company’s cloud storage service, OneDrive, and to an unknown content delivery network, have a user identification number attached.The machines used for the test were using a local login to Windows 10, not a Microsoft account, and had OneDrive, Cortana, live tiles and every other privacy-protecting setting active.Windows 10 also downloaded new tile information from its MSN news and information service, despite the live-tile feature not being active on the test machine. The request had no identifiable information, but was also not encrypted.Privacy worriesThe report will add more fuel to the debate about Windows 10 and privacy, afterMicrosoft came under fire for the default settings in its new operating system.“As part of delivering Windows 10 as a service, updates may be delivered to provide ongoing new features to Bing search, such as new visual layouts, styles and search code,” said Microsoft, in response to Ars Technica’s report.“No query or search usage data is sent to Microsoft, in accordance with the customer’s chosen privacy settings. This also applies to searching offline for items such as apps, files and settings on the device.”However, the information sent to and requested from Microsoft after customers activated privacy-protecting settings, was not related to search.Microsoft did not elaborate on what purpose the communications have, or whether it stores or tracks the data, which includes machine identification numbers. The company has not responded to requests for further comment.Microsoft also released an update to fix a problem with one of its mandatory Windows 10 updates, which should prevent theendless install failure and rebooting issuesthat users had been suffering from, according to the company.•Windows 10 review – final version of Windows might be Microsoft’s best ever•What Windows 10 needs to get right to avoid another Vista moment
Professional gamers competing in events run by eSports body ESL are now banned from using marijuana during competitions, under the organisation’s new anti-doping policy.ESL announced plans in July to introduce the policy,promising that it would be “fair, feasible and conclusive while also respecting the privacy of players”. Now it has published details of its plans.In a post on Reddit, ESL’s head of communications Anna Rozwandowicz said that the body will match the list of prohibited substances compiled by German agency Nationale Anti-Doping Agentur (Nada) and the World Anti-Doping Agency (Wada).Players will be tested during competitions, with ESL opting for saliva-based tests for performance-enhancing drugs, rather than the PED skin tests that it was planning to use for tournaments, starting with its ESL One Cologne event this month.“Upon further investigation and consultation with the authorities, we came to the conclusion that saliva tests are better fit,” wrote Rozwandowicz. “Tests will be performed at our discretion at any time during tournament days, and will take place in a designated testing area. Naturally, players’ privacy comes first.”Players failing tests will face a range of sanctions, from losing prize money and tournament points to disqualifications and up to two-year bans from ESL events.ESL is the largest eSports organisation, but its anti-doping policies have been up for debate since the admission earlier this year by one of its high-profile players, Kory ‘SEMPHIS’ Friesen, that he had used the Adderall drug during a competition.Adderall is a stimulant usually prescribed to people diagnosed with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, but it has also been used as a “cognitive enhancer” to aid alertness and concentration by athletes – including professional gamers.Related:Can a mobile game be 'five times bigger' as an eSport than League of Legends?Some of ESL’s players may have legitimate prescriptions for Adderall and similar drugs, with Rozwandowicz saying that they will be able to compete – but must provide a doctor’s letter or other proof that they need it for medicinal purposes.Perhaps anticipating a backlash to the fact that recreational drugs like marijuana are also banned under the new policy, she clarified the ESL’s approach to that drug in particular.“Marijuana is on the list of prohibited substances during the competition. This means that recreational use of it outside (before) the event days will not be punished,” she wrote.“Using it during the tournament – from the start of the first day until the end of the last day of competition – is strictly prohibited.”
It’s Thursday!
Twitter’s standalone app for live-streaming video, Periscope, now has nearly two million daily active users watching 40 years of broadcasts a day.Periscope published the stats to celebrate another milestone: its 10 millionth registered user since the appfirst launched for Apple’s iPhone in March, withan Android version following in May.The app enables any user to broadcast live video captured by their smartphone’s camera to fellow Periscope users, and promote the stream on Twitter to attract more viewers.In itsblog post announcing the figures, Periscope stressed that the daily active users (DAU) and time-watched stats refer purely to people watching live on their smartphones, rather than on the web.“Time Watched is the metric we care about most, and what we’ll keep you updated on periodically,” claimed the company.Periscope’s chart of how much time people spend watching its broadcasts.It’s not alone in this attitude: over the last year, YouTube has also placed more emphasis in its analytics on how much time people spend watching, rather than the number of viewers or views.“It’s most reflective of the value we’re creating for people and the world. Success for broadcasters means more time watched on their broadcasts,” claimed Periscope, adding that the metric “serves as a proxy for active user growth” as an alternative to simply counting how many daily or monthly active users there are.Related:The 10 types of people you will see on Twitter's PeriscopePeriscope’s main rival this year has been Meerkat, which launched shortly before it on both iPhone and Android, but saw its access to Twitter’s social graph cut off – hampering its ability to help users follow friends’ accounts.Meerkat signed up 700,000 users in its first seven weeksafter launching in March, andreached two million users by early May. It has not published an updated figure since. In July, research firm GlobalWebIndex claimed that in the previous month,1% of internet users had used Periscope versus 0.9% for Meerkat.Periscope’s main rival in the future may be Facebook, though. The social network hasjust introduced a feature called “Live” to its Facebook Mentions app, which is used by verified public figures like musicians, athletes and politicians. It enables them to broadcast live video to their Facebook fans.
“There’s a deafening apathy to all of the stories about refugees in a situation like Aleppo in Syria. To be honest, people don’t care any more, and we’ve had a few years of beating our heads against the wall trying to make people care.”As a freelance photographer and videographer, Christian Stephen has been trying to tell stories from war zones for the last half a decade while fretting about this challenge. His latest film,Welcome To Aleppo, uses technology to try to solve it.“There’s an unfortunate and frankly criminal inability to connect to the stories that are going on, bordering on contempt. By tapping into virtual reality, in its basest form we’re allowing people to connect with the story,” says Stephen.Related:Virtual reality documentaries 'take the middle man out of journalism'“Instead of sitting through 45 seconds on the news of someone walking around and explaining how terrible it is, you are actively becoming a participant in the story that you are viewing.”Welcome To Aleppo is the work of production company RYOT, shot by Stephen – who is the company’s global editor – earlier this year, working with Syrian journalist Adnan Hadad to show the urban frontline of the civil war there.The short film has beenpublished on YouTube as a 360-degree videothat can be watched on a smartphone or tablet, moving the device around you to pan your viewpoint on the bombed-out buildings and eerily quiet streets.RYOT was founded by a pair of humanitarian aid-workers who are also filmmakers, and for the last six months it has been exploring the potential of virtual reality (VR) documentaries, including one on the aftermath of the recent earthquake in Nepal, and now in Aleppo.“VR is the most exciting technology we’ve found. It puts people squarely in the shoes of somebody else, so they can see through their eyes and experience the scale of devastation in some of these places. Scale is a really important aspect to this,” says producer Bryn Mooser, who is also co-founder of RYOT.“When you’re in these places in real life, you’re seeing the scale: the scope of the disaster and how big a crisis is. That’s something that’s very difficult to translate through traditional photography, or even through film. Virtual reality is going to change disaster and crisis-response filmmaking for good.”RYOT is not alone in this claim that VR documentaries are not about gimmicky use of new technology for the sake of it, but rather are about getting viewers to feel. In January, filmmaker Chris Milk made a similar pitch, following the release of his VR film about the Millions March protest in New York.“Being able to put people in the place gives them not just a better sense of it, but gives them more empathy and a deeper emotional connection to the people that were actually there,”he said. “That’s where the true power of virtual reality lies in regards to journalism.”Mooser says that RYOT doesn’t just want viewers to feel more connected to the people and places that it’s filming, though. He claims that VR will only be useful if it spurs those viewers into action.Related:Five ways film-making is evolving thanks to new technology“Virtual reality has been called an empathy machine: a way to elicit empathy. But empathy doesn’t matter to me. I want what’s after the empathy, which is the action. Yes, it’s a terrible place, but the real goal is to get people to do something after it,” he says.In the case of Welcome to Aleppo, that means directing people toa page on the producer’s website encouraging donations to the White Helmets, a volunteer group of Syrian civilians who try to rescue people from the rubble of bomb explosions.Capturing this footage has its challenges, not least when like Stephen, you’re in a live warzone trying to set up a filming contraption with six GoPro cameras that, to passersby, may look quite a lot like an improvised explosive device [IED]. And, indeed, to nearby snipers.Mooser talks about one scene in the film that shows a seemingly-empty street in Aleppo, with the whistling wind interrupted only by the sound of two sniper shots ringing out.“The technology is a double-edged sword: I don’t have to check my lenses and look for a beautiful angle and do focus pulls. But it looks like an IED on a tripod, with six GoPros that need to be switched on. It’s incredibly precarious,” says Stephen.Filmmakers like Stephen and Milk are having to figure out the language of virtual-reality filmmaking as they go along, too. “The rules have yet to be written on how you tell stories in VR, but the good thing is that the technology is out of the hands of engineers and into the hands of artists, war journalists and filmmakers,” says Mooser.Setting up a camera system that resembles an IED is ‘precarious’Sceptics may wonder if the importance of the stories being told from places like Nepal and Aleppo is matched by the potential distribution if they are released as virtual reality films.Facebook bossMark Zuckerberg wants to sell 50m-100m of his company’s Oculus Rift VR headsetsin the years ahead, but so far the pre-commercial versions of the device have only sold in the low six-figures – and then only to developers.Other headsets, from Sony’s Project Morpheus to HTC’s Vive, have also yet to go on sale to the general public. Which would beg the question of whether the situation in Aleppo is too important to restrict its (potentially) most-powerful reports to a niche audience of tech early-adopters.Or rather, it would do, if it wasn’t for YouTube – which recently added the ability for people to upload 360-degree videos – and smartphones, which can be used to watch them, either on their own or using a self-made headset like Google Cardboard.“Virtual reality now is mobile-first. We’re uploading these in 360 to YouTube, and I’m sure Facebook is going to have an in-app player as well. When Facebook is able to show 360-video, anybody with a mobile phone will be able to watch it by moving the phone around them,” says Mooser.Related:Will VR ever overcome the dork factor?“We want these films to be on every single platform they can be on. I wouldn’t want to be in the headset business of virtual reality now. Headsets aren’t going to be the way it goes: it’s just your phone.”“And let’s be honest, in four or five years it will be on a contact lens with augmented reality, which is the next step. To be in the headset game is not interesting for me. You don’t need headsets for this: you just need a phone and YouTube, or soon a phone and Facebook.”There may still be a question about whether mobile + YouTube can be as immersive as a headset: does the scale of the potential audience dent the feeling of scale when watching, which Mooser talked about earlier?If the streets of Syria are on your phone held in front of you amid your real-world surroundings, rather than your entire field of vision as they would be with a headset, breaking through the apathy barrier could be harder. Mooser’s tales of people crying after watching Welcome to Aleppo on his phone suggest he’s optimistic that this won’t be the case, however.Stephen says he hopes virtual reality can ultimately take the emphasis away from “running and gunning” format that dominates many TV news reports of crises and warzones.“I’ve done that stuff: dispatches where people see me getting shot at, bombs going off, whatever. But people think that’s cool, and what I’m trying to communicate is that this is absolutely not cool, fun, thrilling,” he says.“This is adrenaline, and terror, and fear that empties out of your shoes. When you’re standing on the streets of Aleppo with two shots ringing out, I want an eerie silence. I want haunting quiet. That’s what it’s like when you’re there. Covering these stories shouldn’t be trivial.”
Tinder fired off a series of intemperate tweets on Tuesday night in response to a Vanity Fair story that allegedthe dawn of the “dating apocalypse” is upon us.“We have a passionate team that truly believes in Tinder,” a spokesperson for the dating app told the Guardian a few hours later. “While reading a recent Vanity Fair article about today’s dating culture, we were saddened to see that the article didn’t touch upon the positive experiences that the majority of our users encounter daily. Our intention was to highlight the many statistics and amazing stories that are sometimes left unpublished, and, in doing so, we overreacted.”The handle @Tinder sent about 30 tweets during its social media rampage, and in doing so made a series of claims. But do they stack up?How many Tinder users are married?Hey@nancyjosales— that survey is incorrect. If you&#39;re interested in having a factual conversation, we&#39;re here.https://t.co/SLWlTLvJuf&mdash; Tinder (@Tinder)August 11, 2015Nancy Jo Sales, who wrote the Vanity Fair piece, said onTwitter(but not in the article) that 30% of Tinder users were married.“That survey is incorrect,” @Tinder replied. “If you’re interested in having a factual conversation, we’re here. We have lots of data. We surveyed 265,000 of our users. But it doesn’t seem like you’re interested in facts.”Related:Tinder hits back at research claiming 42% of its users have partnersThe Tinder account added: “Our actual data says that 1.7% of Tinder users are married – not 30% as the preposterous GlobalWebIndex article indicated.”What the GlobalWebIndex survey actually found was: “Globally, about half of the Tinder audience is single, whereas just over 45% are attached (34% saying they are married and another 11% being in a relationship) ... In the UK and US, for example, it’s two-thirds of users who are single. Among married users of Tinder, the global gender split is about 55% men to 45% women.”The report was based on the answers of about 1,282 active Tinder users.According toa recent piece in Marie Claire UK, there are more than 50 million people on Tinder. These surveys represent a fraction of the app’s users.Furthermore, the problem with all of these surveys and all the data is that it relies on Tinder users telling the truth, which a married Tinder user might conceivably not do.Are there Tinder users in North Korea?&quot;hi is this tinder i can&#39;t swipe right on this phone help pls&quot;&#10;&#10;@Tinderpic.twitter.com/dqUU1Uh6fq&mdash; darth™  (@darth)August 12, 2015Tinder may well have users in China, but there are probably not that many in North Korea. AsVox reporter Max Fisher points out, North Korea makes its own phones – Arirang – for its citizens, and thesereportedly cannotdownload extra apps such Tinder.There could, however, be Tinder users in North Korea if they are foreigners and have brought their own phones with them. So swiping left or right in North Korea is possible but only for a select few.Related:How to survive the dating apocalypse“So while North Koreans are almost certainly not using Tinder, it is possible that some foreigners – say, Chinese tourists or businesspeople spending the week in Pyongyang – are using Tinder,”wrote Fisher. “This might be why Tinder thinks it has North Korean users: perhaps its staffers looked at geolocation data for Tinder usage, saw some pings within North Korea, and concluded that they had brought romance to the hermit kingdom.”Joseph Cox, a writer for Vice,attemptedto use Tinder in North Korea on Tuesday night, only to be told by the app that there was just one result: a 22-year-old California woman 97 miles away, who was in North Korea until later this month.Trying again, Cox got the following message: “There’s no one new around you.”Sam Biddle, a reporter at Gawker, was slightly luckier when he used Tinder’s premium features to set his location as North Korea.He got a total of three results.“We have users in all 196 countries, including China and North Korea,” Rosette Pambakian, a Tinder spokeswoman,told the New York Times. “We cannot disclose additional information on our user base there.”Could there have been 8bn connections?“Tinder creates experiences. We create connections that otherwise never would have been made. 8 billion of them to date, in fact,” the appboasted on Tuesday.As mentioned above, there are an estimated 50 million people on Tinder, which would mean an average of 160 connections per person. But we don’t know how many people have used Tinder since it launched in 2012.It is unclear whether a connection means a message, a face-to-face meeting, or even sex.Has Tinder resulted in a ‘shit ton’ of marriages?It’s about meeting new people for all kinds of reasons. Travel, dating, relationships, friends and a shit ton of marriages.&mdash; Tinder (@Tinder)August 11, 2015While many have tried to quantify the phrasea “shit ton”, there seem to be no accepted metric to convert the measure to number of marriages.Was this all a PR stunt to have us write more about Tinder?Possibly. At least one reporter has come forth to say that they were tipped off that the Tinder tweet storm was coming.@summeranneI in fact got a pitch from a PR person that Tinder was about to tweet storm, and I should watch for it.&mdash; Claudia Koerner (@ClaudiaKoerner)August 12, 2015“I in fact got a pitch from a PR person that Tinder was about to tweet storm, and I should watch for it,” Claudia Koerner, a reporter for BuzzFeed News,tweeted on Tuesday.Tinder did not respond to the Guardian about whether the tweets were premeditated or just a genuine impulsive overreaction.Did Tinder invent sex?-@VanityFairLittle known fact: sex was invented in 2012 when Tinder was launched.&mdash; Tinder (@Tinder)August 11, 2015We are going to chalk this one up to sarcasm.
Twitter users can now send direct messages (DM) of up to 10,000 characters, three months after the company announced the forthcoming change to users and developerson its development blog.The new DMs, which are intended to be of effectively unlimited length for the typical user, are part of the company’s long-running effort to upgrade its messaging service to make it a more competitive alternative to market leaders such as Facebook’s WhatsApp and Messenger apps.Sachin Agarwal, Twitter’s DM product manager, said: “We believe that private messaging is a core part of the twitter experience. Where we see our advantage [over apps such as WhatsApp] is that there’s so much amazing content on Twitter already, that we want to enable people to have private conversations about those things.”After years spent all-but-abandoned, the company turned its attention to updating its direct messages towards the end of 2014, first enabling group DMs with multiple participants, and then announcing the change in DM length earlier this year. As a result, Agarwal accepted that Twitter still has to win back trust from users before they will devote time to the feature.Nonetheless, he said: “We’ve won back a lot of trust, but we still have a long way to go. Users are really excited about it, we’re seeing our numbers skyrocket.”Unusually for Twitter, the change in DM length was pre-announced. Agarwal said that it was important to make sure that all third-party clients are updated before the feature is turned on. “What we didn’t want was for it to be enabled for one client but not for others,” because that way users may be sent messages that they couldn’t read.Typically, Twitter is unconcerned about third-party clients, preferring users to stick to the company’s own software, but Agarwal said that a big target for unlimited DMs is business users, who will appreciate being able to hold real conversations with customers in DM. Since enterprise users are often on third party clients such as Hootsuite, they need the time to switch over.“One of the really interesting uses of DM is talking to business and getting customer support, and those are using third party clients. We have a number of partners that build clients for these businesses and so we wanted to make sure they had the time to update and be ready.“Let’s say that I’m talking to a business and I write them a direct message that is 160 characters long and that business doesn’t read the last 20, for me as a consumers thats a really bad experience. And that was how we looked at it, the users’ perspective, making sure they have a really great experience.”
Google has been quietly testing its drone delivery program in US airspace and is planning further tests in rural California after striking a deal with Nasa, the Guardian has learned.Documents seen by the Guardian also reveal technical details of Google’s drone, which is capable of speeds of up to 100 mph and weighs less than 25kg (55lb). The papers also reveal Google’s safety plans should a drone lose contact with its operator.The US currently has a blanket ban on the commercial operation of unmanned aircraft. When Google revealed its experimental delivery drones, code-named Project Wing, a year ago, a promotional video showed a farmer in rural Australia receiving a packet of dog treats by air.Companies wanting to take to America’s spacious skies need special permission from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), involving onerous requirements such as having a licensed pilot control the drone.However, documents show Google has been skirting these rules by flying itsProject Wingaircraft over private land in the US in cooperation with Nasa. For more than a year, Google has been quietly operating its drones in America under Nasa’s Certificate of Waiver or Authorization (COA), a program originally intended for government agencies.COAs let public organisations like the military, state universities and police or fire departments experiment with unmanned aerial systems (UAS), as long as they meet safety standards. But COAs come with restrictions. FAA regulations state that a public agency must own or exclusively operate the drone in question, and that commercial operations are prohibited.Are animals as averse to drones as humans?Link to videoCOAs are not routinely made public, in contrast to the waivers issued to commercial companies, called “333s” after a section of the FAA regulations. It is widely known, for instance, that Amazon was issued a 333 exemption in April for research and development of its Prime Air delivery drones.“I don’t think this kind of public-private cooperation is happening with high regularity,” said Diana Cooper, head of the unmanned aerial systems and robotics practice group at Canadian law firm LaBarge Weinstein. “But there aren’t too many stats out there.”Both Nasa and Google declined to comment on the collaboration, although the Guardian has obtained a Space Act Agreement that says: “Nasa and Google will conduct joint field tests of UASs ... where Nasa may issue certificates of approvals to operate.”The latest trials will be used to see whether cellphone signals can be used by low-flying drones for automatic air traffic control. According to documents filed with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) last week and seen by the Guardian, Google wants to carry out demonstrations and tests on a remote stretch of privately owned land near Merced, California. The experiments, which Google thinks might last up to six months, involve transmissions on the 4G and LTE radio frequencies used by all the major cellphone companies in America, including AT&amp;T, T-Mobile, Sprint and Verizon.At a conference in Silicon Valley in July, Dave Vos, leader ofAlphabet’sX Lab Wing project, talked about drones using cellphone technology to file flight plans and receive directions from computerised air traffic control systems. “Let’s work with the cellphone industry,” Vos said. “Join us – you can make a ton of money and so can we, and we can have fun doing it.”Google would not confirm whether any phone companies are participating in these experiments, but the document it filed with the FCC says the latest experiments could help “generate new business opportunities for communications service providers and remove barriers to the broader deployment of UAS”.The FCC filing also suggests that Google has a direct commercial interest in the upcoming tests. In requesting details to be redacted from the document, Google notes: “The information requested to be kept confidential has significant commercial value. Google’s tests/experiments and proprietary wireless applications using particular radio frequency equipment represent a ‘secret commercially valuable plan’.”The company goes on to say: “The technology under development is highly sensitive and confidential in nature. The release of such information would provide valuable insight into Google’s technology innovations and potential business plans and strategies.”Learning how futuristic drones might communicate, navigate and operate could aid similar technologies also being developed at Google’s secretive X Lab, now a part of the newAlphabet holding company. Project Fi is Google’s own wireless phone company, while Project Loon and Project Titan aim to deliver internet access to undeveloped regions using balloons and solar-powered drones.Related:Eagle attacking drone mid-air shows animals as averse to UAVs as humans“This is not a smoking gun,” said Cooper. “It’s typical for companies to want to redact sensitive information that describes how their technology works. The thing to keep in mind is just because there could be a commercial purpose later on doesn’t mean that Google is operating commercially right now.”But while Google says that it can still legally fly its drones under Nasa’s COA, the company is hedging its bets. Last week, the FAA posted a request from Google for a Section 333 exemption to use its drones to perform aerial data collection, and conduct research and development.This exemption request, also obtained by the Guardian, reveals new details about Google’s aircraft. Project Wing drones weigh less than 25kg (55lb), using multiple electric engines to fly at up to 100 mph and as high as 120 meters (400 ft). If a drone loses GPS navigation signals or communications with its ground-based operator, it will automatically return to base and land immediately.This document claims that “Google’s proposed UAS operations ... will not adversely affect safety, but rather will provide an equivalent or greater level of safety than that provided by ... other delivery methods ... using trucks/cars/motorcycles or larger manned aircraft”.Applying for a 333 exemption now makes sense, said Greg McNeal, drone expert and associate professor of law and public policy at Pepperdine University. “Google works on big-sky, futuristic thinking, which is a Nasa attribute,” he said. “Now we’re starting the transition from that big vision research to practical commercial applications.”Google is unlikely to it receive its 333 exemption any time soon, however. “We have a backlog of 1,500 or so exemption requests,” says Les Dorr of the FAA. “Google’s request was only filed a week ago, so there’s no chance that it would have been granted at this point.”•First successful drone delivery made in the US•Switzerland begins postal delivery by drone
Mobile games developer Noodlecake Studios is having some fun at online pirates’ expense, uploading a version of its latest game to filesharing services that is impossible to complete.The company took the decision to self-pirate the Android version of Shooting Stars after noting high rates of piracy for its previous release, Wayward Souls.“Our analytics show that 11% of all installs of the game have been paid for. 11%. And that is just the installs we are tracking. Some cracked versions might have taken out those reporting tools,”explained Noodlecake in a blog post.The version of Shooting Stars seeded on torrent sites has a wave of boss characters called “Daft Premium”, seemingly inspired by music duo Daft Punk.It includes a series of enemies that have “an obscene amount of health” followed by a final boss who cannot be killed. Once players die, they are shown a message encouraging them to buy the official version of the game.Related:YouTube Minecraft star CaptainSparklez starts crafting mobile games“We don’t think this is an answer to piracy, or that it will be a big motivator to suddenly stop cracking games but instead, we are embracing it as a fun marketing tactic,” explained Noodlecake. “And hey, if one or two players decide to throw us a couple bucks in the process, then we call that a win.”It’s not the first developer to penalise pirates through gameplay. In 2013, developer Greenheart Games uploaded a cracked copy of their Game Dev Tycoon PC game to filesharing sites, whichguaranteed players’ virtual businesses would go bankrupt.Other developers have been content to simply publish their unhappiness at levels of piracy. In January, for example, developer ustwo tweeted thatonly 5% of Android installs of its Monument Valley game had been paid for.In 2013, developer Lucky Frame claimed that three weeks after its Gentlemen! game launched on Android,it had sold 144 copies, but had 50,030 unpaid installs.
The Russian government’s technology and internet watchdog is threatening to block Reddit across the country if it does not remove a thread dedicated to growing cannabis.The federal service for supervision of communications, information, technology and mass media (Roskomnadzor) has taken to one of the largest social networks in Russia, VK.com, requesting the takedown, after it received no direct response from Reddit.Roskomnadzorwritesthat Russia’s federal drug control service opposes a particular subreddit, thought to be/r/trees, which “posted an article on the cultivation of growing narcotic plants”.The watchdog has also mocked up a “wanted” poster of Reddit’s alien mascot, and slighted the company for not responding to its emails, suggesting Reddit’s staff are “too relaxed during the August holidays”.Roskomnadzor created a ‘wanted’ poster for Russia over a thread discussing drugs.Photograph: VK.comPeople with contacts at Reddit are urged to also email the company in a bid to get the thread removed, and staff at the site are asked to search their inboxes for previous correspondence or a block would be “prepared”.Reddit recentlychanged its rules, however, to allow the discussion of illegal activities.In a thread posted last month, entitled “Let’s talk content”, Reddit states that “anything illegal ... things that are actually illegal, such as copyrighted material” will be removed, but that “discussing illegal activities, such as drug use, is not illegal” and will be allowed to remain.Roskomnadzor has precedent for blocking sites. In 2013,Wikipedia was made inaccessibleafter allowing content related to cannabis, and last month content was removedfrom YouTubefollowing copyright claims. Other barred sites include: The Pirate Bay, Wayback Machine and GitHub.Kremlin opposition sites are also blocked, including those of prominent politicians Alexei Navalny and Garry Kasparov. Russian users can still access the sites, but only when usingvirtual private networks.
The shadowy arm of the US Defense Department devoted to funding cutting-edge technology is building an interactive robotics system powerful enough to perform an incredibly difficult task: a trumpet solo.Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (Darpa), the US military’s technology research arm, has handed over its first cheque to Kelland Thomas, associate director of the University of Arizona School of Information (anda jazz musician in his own right) to fund musical machines.“The goal of our research is to build a computer system and then hook it up to robots that can play instruments, and can play with human musicians in ways that we recognize as improvisational and adaptive,” said Thomas.Machine learning is a complex field, and one that a scientist at Darpa’s Robotics Challenge in Pomona, California, earlier this year likened to “a three-day-old child”. A three-day-old child’s brain is incredibly powerful, but it doesn’t yet know how to riff like Charlie Parker. Thomas’s goal is to change that.The program administering the $2m grant to Thomas’s team – which consists of researchers from the University of Arizona, the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, and Oberlin College – is Darpa’s Information Innovation Office. It’s run by Paul Cohen, who joined Darpa in 2013 from Arizona’s School of Information that Thomas now runs, and is devoted to breaking down barriers between human and machine communication.Related:Meet Z-Machines, Squarepusher's new robot band“He was the head of [the School of Information Services, Technology and the Arts, or Sista] when I went part time to Sista – and then he left for Darpa,” Thomas recalled of Cohen. “He was the one who called my attention to the program after he designed the BAA [broad agency announcement – a call for proposals].”To jam effectively, Thomas said that machines are going to have to study data at scale and then synthesize it based on input from people; learning to play jazz does all those things.“We’re getting lots of video of musicians playing in front of a green screen together,” Thomas explained. “We’re going to build a database of musical transcription: every Miles Davis solo and every Louis Armstrong solo we’re going to hand-curate. We’re going to develop machine learning techniques to analyze these solos and find deeper relationships between the notes and the harmonies, and that will inform the system – that’ll be the knowledge base.”That will be the back end, said Thomas. The front end will be a microphone that listens to the human musician playing an instrument and uses its vast repository of jazz solos to make decisions about what to play next. “We want to get to a point where it’s playing things back to the human performer that the human performer will recognize as collaborative.”One problem Thomas anticipates is what he describes as a version of the “uncanny valley” – the tendency of humans to find non-humanoid robots cute and too-humanoid robots creepy and weird. At first, Thomas said, “we’ll hook it up to synthesized sound. If you were to take that same output and hook it up to a midi piano, it might sound like a pianist. Once it doesn’t sound like it’s producing synthesized output, then can it fool humans. Synthesized output always tends to sound kind of mechanized.”The researchers are a long way off from double bill of Herbie Hancock and, say, the JazzMoTron Trio at Carnegie Hall, but that is the goal, once Thomas and others developing JazzMoTron’s predecessors can teach them to move beyond trying to copy on Miles Davis. “The way that musicians learn how to play jazz, they mimic the style and the impressions – learning the style is sort of the first way into the music – and they have a knowledge base of solos they can play backwards and forwards,” said Thomas.“It’s a stored warehouse of information,” he said. “What creative jazz players do over time is synthesize this database of everything they know from all of their heroes – Charlie Parker and John Coltrane and so on – and they’re playing something that comes from a tradition but synthesizes all these different expressions. There’s a process there that I think we could actually model. At what point does this thing stop sounding like Miles Davis and start producing something that sounds new?“When we hear that something has emotion, there may be a sort of ineffable quality that a musician has on the stage. I think the more interesting question is what the gap looks like between a machine being creative and a human being creative.”
Tinder has reacted poorly to being heralded as the harbinger of the “dating apocalypse” in Vanity Fair magazine, going on a defensive rampage on social media.Related:How to survive the dating apocalypseAn unknown employee at Tinder let off steam, sending 31 tweets from the company’sverified Twitter accountin the space of an hour, in response toa story in the September issuein which the app was depicted as enabling a hook-up culture of instant gratification.The feature quoted a psychology professor who said “the impression that there are thousands or millions of potential mates” created by Tinder and other dating apps encouraged men to pursue “a short-term mating strategy”, leading to unstable relationships and a rise in divorce rates.“Little known fact: sex was invented in 2012 when Tinder was launched,” an employee at Tinder tweeted directly at Vanity Fair.They then criticised the journalist Nancy Jo Sales for not seeking comment from the company, and for holding up her intervieweesas being representativeof all Tinder users.“Next time reach out to us first@nancyjosales… that’s what journalists typically do.”The Tinder Generation is real. Our users are creating it. But it’s not at all what you portray it to be.&mdash; Tinder (@Tinder)August 11, 2015They also dismissed a statistic quoted by Sales on Twitter, but not in the feature article, that 30% of Tinder users are married as “preposterous”.“Our actual data says that 1.7% of Tinder users are married,” the employee tweeted, before expounding at length on the “meaningful connections” and happy endings brought about by the app, citing the “tons and tons of emails” about “all kinds of amazing experiences” it has received from users.“Talk to the female journalist in Pakistan who wrote just yesterday about using Tinder to find a relationship where being gay is illegal. Talk to our many users in China and North Korea who find a way to meet people on Tinder even though Facebook is banned.”Tinder creates experiences. We create connections that otherwise never would have been made. 8 billion of them to date, in fact.&mdash; Tinder (@Tinder)August 11, 2015“It’s about meeting new people for all kinds of reasons. Travel, dating, relationships, friends and a shit ton of marriages … talk to people that have made some of their best friends on Tinder,” the employee wrote over several tweets.“The ability to meet people outside of your closed circle in this world is an immensely powerful thing. So we are going to keep focusing on bringing people together. That’s why we’re here. That is why all of us at Tinder work so hard.”If you want to try to tear us down with one-sided journalism, well, that’s your prerogative.&mdash; Tinder (@Tinder)August 11, 2015The employee tweeted their disappointment at Sales’ “incredibly biased view”, before concluding, somewhat ominously: “But it’s not going to dissuade us from building something that is changing the world. #Generation Tinder”In the midst of the meltdown, Sales – a contributing editor at Vanity Fair and the author of The Bling Ring –responded(somewhat implausibly) “My article isn’t even about Tinder lol”, before retweeting tweets praising her article.Twitter users followed the exchange with glee.“This reminds me when women tell a dude on Tinder they aren’t interested and he goes on an unhinged rant,”remarked one.A Twitter user responds to Tinder’s meltdown, suggesting they “log off”.Read the full rant, for as long as the tweets remain up, atTinder’s Twitter account.Related:How many Tinder users are married? Fact-checking the app's tweet stormIn a statement, a Tinder spokesperson said “we were saddened to see that the article didn’t touch upon the positive experiences that the majority of our users encounter daily”.“Our intention was to highlight the many statistics and amazing stories that are sometimes left unpublished, and, in doing so, we overreacted,” the official spokesperson said.
Three Uber employees have been released on bail after a raid on the company’s Hong Kong offices in a probe into its illegal operations within the autonomous Chinese territory.Documents, computers and iPads were confiscated in the raid on two offices, of which at least one belonged to Uber.Five drivers were also arrested on Tuesday over the “illegal use of vehicles for hire” after undercover police used the Uber app to hail five cars, arresting the drivers after being driven to their destinations.Hong Kong police senior inspector, Bruce Hung said the drivers lacked the required hire car permits or third party insurance.An Uber spokesman for North Asia said: “We stand by our driver-partners 100% and welcome the opportunity to work closely with the authorities towards updated regulations that put the safety and interests of riders and drivers first.”The company spokesman continued: “Uber ensures that all rides are covered by insurance, and all drivers on the platform undergo an extensive background check,” .Related:Uber losing millions of dollars, documents revealAsia expansionThe raids come as Uber pursues aggressive expansion across Asia, including China where it is a comparative latecomer and has met resistance from local operators. In May, Chinese authorities raided Uber’s offices on suspicion of it running an “unlicensed operation”.Asia provides Uber with a large opportunity for expanding its user base, which is still dominated by customers in the US. The number of mobile taxi-hailing app users within China, for instance, is forecast to hit 45 million by the end of this year, according to Chinese research firm iResearch.The$51bn-valued Uberrecently invested $1bn into an expansion within India and 1.3 billion population, which is only narrowly behind the 1.4 billion people living in China. For comparison the US only has 322 million people living within its borders.The company is seeing a40% month-on-month growth rate within Indiaand expects the number of Uber rides per day within the country to surpass the US in the near future. That’s despite local competition operating within more than 100 towns and cities across the country.Uber has more than 150,000 drivers on its books within India and operates within the largest cities, with plans to expand to many of the smaller cities within the next year.•Uber pledges to improve vetting of drivers after Dallas sexual assault•Have Uber’s ‘phantom cars’ disappeared?
Facebook could be preparing to take on Twitter at its own game, with a standalone news application for mobile phones.The product, which isreportedly in “alpha” stage testingas part of the company’s Facebook for Business initiative, would allow users to follow specific topics and receive instant alerts of up to 100 characters of text when a breaking news event occurs.According to Business Insider,which first reported on the app’s existence, the new app will be a specifically broadcast-only experience, limiting the ability to create alerts to specific partnered companies.Nonetheless, the move shows Facebook squaring up to the competition from Twitter, which is generally perceived to have a strong lead in handling live events.Unlike Facebook, Twitter’s product is built around a reverse-chronological feed, where the newest updates are presented at the top. That contributes to the service’s notoriously bad experience for new users, since it makes no effort to distinguish between interesting or important content and banal status updates. But the upside is that it means that breaking news events surface rapidly on the social network, allowing them to become the focus of conversation.While Facebook takes tips from Twitter, the reverse happens just as frequently. Twitter has long hinted that it envies the ability of Facebook to curate what users see, and with experiments like the Discover tab, has made overtures towards implementing similar features. But users have repeatedly expressed concern that what makes Twitter unique might be erased in the process.Facebook’s breaking news app would be the latest addition to the site’s rapidly growing portfolio of apps. As well as the main Facebook app, the company also produces Messenger, Instagram, and WhatsApp, as well as smaller apps like Hyperlapse, Slingshot and Groups.
Researchers have hacked a car, remotely activated its windscreen wipers, applied its brakes and even disabled them, all via simple text messages.A group of researchers from University of California, San Diego discovered a serious weak point in vehicle security that allows hackers to take remote control of a car or lorry thanks to small black dongles that are connected to the vehicles’ diagnostic ports.These dongles are plugged into the onboard diagnostics port (OBD-II) of cars and lorries by insurance companies and fleet operators as a way to track vehicles and collect data such as fuel efficiency and the number of miles driven.But the researchers found that the dongles could be hacked by sending them SMS text messages, which relayed commands to the car’s internal systems. The hack was demonstrated on a Corvette, where the researchers could turn on the windscreen wipers, apply the brakes or even disable them at low speed.“We acquired some of these things, reverse-engineered them, and along the way found that they had a whole bunch of security deficiencies,” Stefan Savage, computer security professor and leader of the project,told Wired.Pay-by-mile insuranceThe dongles tested and found to be vulnerable by the researchers were made by Mobile Devices and given to consumers by US insurance company Metromile as part of its pay-per-mile insurance plan. Metromile also distributes the dongles to Uber drivers for bespoke insurance plans.The researchers warned that, once compromised, the dongles allow hackers to control almost any aspect of the car, including steering and locks, and that any of the thousands of car with them equipped were potentially vulnerable.The dongles were distributed to consumers in an insecure “developer mode”, according to the researchers, and configured to take commands via text message with little in security, which allowed the hackers to access a car’s critical systems.The researchers, who are presenting their work at the Usenix security conference in Washington DC this week, said that many other dongles of this type might have similar weaknesses. A drive for fuel savings and efficiency has led to their increasing use within companies and institutions, including the US government recently mandated that all federal bodies with fleets over 20 vehicles must fit dongles to them to monitor telemetrics.Mobile Devices and Metromile were notified of the vulnerability in June who issued a patch for the devices to be delivered wirelessly. Mobile Devices also said that its newer dongles were not susceptible to the hack. The researchers, however, could detect thousands of vulnerable Mobile Devices dongles including in Spain, where they are used for tracking vehicle fleets.The Mobile Devices dongles are not the only OBD-II devices to have been shown to be vulnerable to attack. A similar device offered by insurance company Progressive wasfound to have serious security flaws, while a personal telemetrics device called Zubie wasalso found to be vulnerable.•Jeep owners urged to update their cars after hackers take remote control•Most cars are vulnerable to ‘hacking or privacy intrusions’ – report
Apple users are all familiar withSiri, the company’s voice-activated personal assistant that helps out with everything from speed dialling, scheduling meetings and searching for directions. Users ofiOShave had the privilege of Siri’s help since its introduction as part of iOS 5 for the iPhone 4S in 2011, and the function was also added to the third-generation iPads a year later.Since then Siri has become a firm favourite and often hits the news – for good and bad. Siri hasbefriended an autistic child, beenaccused of homophobia,fought for trans rights,mocked maths dunces, come out as atalented rapperand possibly inspired aSpike Jonze film(which Siridid not appreciate).There are both male and female variations of Siri, and different versions the world over – but who are the real people behind the voices?We tracked three Siris down.Jon Briggs, who is also the voice ofThe Weakest Link, was the first British male voice for Siri.Susan Bennettis familiar as the American female Siri – as well as the the voice of Delta Airlines. AndKaren Jacobsenis famous in Australia as the “GPS girl” – but her son still finds it strange to talk to a version of her that is trapped in a phone. We find out what it’s like to be in the pockets of millions – and what it’s like to answer the world’s questions.How does one become the voice of Siri?Apple are a simply brilliant technology company – but they’re not so brilliant with peopleJon BriggsSusan:All of the original Siri voices worldwide came from a bank of digital voices that were recorded in 2005. I recorded four hours a day, five days a week for a month. The process is called concatenation, and the reason the original Siri was so iconic is because she was the first concatenated voice to actually sound human.Karen:I had an audition. I read the brief and thought: “This is me. This job is mine!” I went to the audition and got the job on the spot!Jon:The original system was recorded for a US company called Scansoft, who were then bought by Nuance. Apple simply licensed it.Has there been any contact with Apple?K:In my best Siri voice: “I’m sorry, I am not authorised to answer that question.”S:The only contact I’ve had with Apple was sort of second hand. I met Steve Wozniak at a tech conference last year, and his acknowledgement of me as the voice of Siri was very special. He’s a wonderful man, a true genius.Jon, you havewrittenbefore that Apple does its “PR with a sledgehammer”…J:I contacted them to see if there was anything that I could do to help promote Siri. I never went public about being the voice of Siri myself, but having been the voice of BBC Radio 2 for 13 years and the voice ofthe Weakest Link, I am a fairly well known voice over artist. I was already being recognised.They were rather dismissive and said that Apple wasn’t all about one person, you know. Given that this was about three months after the very sad death ofSteve Jobs, who was definitely the one person that Apple was all about, it was all a little strange.Apple are a simply brilliant technology company – but they’re not so brilliant with people. If you put someone’s voice in millions of people’s pockets without warning, I’m not sure what you expect that person to say when people ask: “is it you?”Susan Bennett, the original American female voice for Siri.Photograph: Susan BennettHow did you first learn that you were the voice of Siri?S:Siri was introduced on 4 October 2011, and on that day a fellow voice talent emailed me and said: “Hey, we’re playing around with this new iPhone. Isn’t this you?” So, I went on the Apple site to hear the voice and recognised myself right away. I had a lot of different feelings about it. I was flattered that my voice had been chosen, but it was strange not to have known about it in advance.J:Rory Cellan-Jones, the BBC’s technology correspondent, was reviewing the phone on BBC Breakfast. I watched it regularly as I was dating one of the presenters back then and I heard him use the Siri function and thought: “I recognise that voice!” How did I feel? Chuffed to bits of course.Siri, correcting Caitlyn Jenner’s name from Bruce after her transition.Photograph: Apple screenshotWhat are others people’s reactions when they find out you are the voice of Siri?K:They are pretty excited and it really it is a lot of fun. Mostly they want me to record a message for their kids to tell them to brush their teeth, go to bed when they are told to, and to listen to their parents!But I receive the most beautiful messages thanking me for helping someone with driving anxiety, or getting them to a destination they are headed to. It is surreal.S:People don’t usually recognise my voice, because my everyday speaking voice isn’t as deep as Siri’s and the meter of the speech is different. Once people know who I am, they freak out a bit. I’m always amazed at how much people relate to her, and basically think of her as a person.J:Everyone reacts very positively when they discover where they’ve heard my voice before – and it’s across all age ranges. It’s fair to say that the most street cred is gained from those under 20. And, interestingly enough, when it was changed last year, there was a Twitter campaign to get me reinstated – so they must have liked me!When my son was younger he seemed frustrated that 'mommy in the phone' would not answer him as if she knew himKaren JacobsenDo you all own iPhones – and do you speak to Siri?K:I feel as if I was the last person to get an iPhone. Our phone company did not offer iPhones for years. The most fun part is seeing my son ask Siri questions, especially when it is my voice answering. When he was younger he seemed frustrated that “mommy in the phone” would not answer him as if she knew him.S:I do have an iPhone, as does my husband. In fact, our whole house is Mac and Apple. I’ve spoken to Siri a few times. Actually, the first time she kind of dissed me. I asked her what she was doing and she very disgustedly replied: “I’m talking to you!” Hahaha! Talk about attitude, right? But when people ask if I talk to Siri much, I say: “No, I talk to myself enough as it is!”Related:Apple's Siri is a better rapper than youJon Briggs was both the voice of Siri and the Weakest Link.J:I use Siri to book appointments and send texts as well as asking silly questions. Although I use the female voice rather than my male replacement, as I find the new one a little insipid if I’m honest.It’s an enormously capable piece of technology and will simply grow in stature and ability as the interface between mankind and technology begins to fade. I have two iPhones, several iPads and an Apple Watch. We ran on Macs in the days when people would look at you sympathetically, as if you had just told them you use an abacus instead of a calculator.What are the oddest Siri stories people have told you?K:Oh my goodness. Plenty of Siri stories. Most of the questions they asked are probably best not mentioned in polite company.J:I’ve met lots of people who have told me that they’ve asked me to marry them via Siri, so I’ve probably received more marriage proposals than any other Englishman. I’m still single incidentally!Karen – you are a singer and musician. Did you hear about the guy who created a song with thefemale British Siri rapping?K:It’s brilliant. My music is more melodic piano-pop but now I am having rap envy. I might just have to do a version myself!Where else might people recognise your voices from?K:I’m known as the GPS girl. I’ve ended up in over 400 million GPS and smartphone devices worldwide. I hear from people all the time who want to tell me about the fabulous trips “we” have taken together!Jon Briggs, the original British male voice of Siri.Photograph: Jon BriggsS:I’ve been a voiceover artist for many years, but I started off as a singer. I was actually the person who sang the jingle about “Tillie the All Time Teller” for First National Bank. It was the first successful ATM in the US. This was before personal computers, and at that time no one trusted getting their money from a machine. I became the persona of the ATM, and suddenly people could relate to the machine, which made it a success. I’m also the voice of Delta Airlines.J:Back in the early 80s I was on a radio programme calledthe Chip Shopwith Barry Norman. I was the voice ofThe Weakest Linkand I have had my ownvoice agencyfor the last 20 years. I’m very proud of both The Weakest Link and Siri – I think it’s an enormous privilege to be the known voice of anything like that, and it’s a great way of breaking the ice with new audiences.Apple have since changed many of the Siri voices. :-( How does it feel to be replaced as Siri?S:I was a bit surprised, but everything changes, right? I guess as we head more and more toward artificial intelligence, and Siri becomes “big brother”, I think I’ll be happy that it’s not my voice!J:Mine was replaced last year. Of course it’s disappointing, but technology constantly moves on. There have been several James Bonds – but there’s only ever one original and there can only ever be one original English voice of Siri.•Follow Karen, Susan and Jon on Twitter:@thegpsgirl,@siriouslysusanand@voiceofsiri
Smart fridges are acliche of the internet of things, a perfect example of an unnecessary, expensive technology that’s been talked about more than it’s been used.Yet, kitchens seem the perfect place for gadgetry: look at the catalogues for home stores, there’s specific devices for everything from slicing pineapple tomagnetic toast tongs. Clearly, cooks and bakers are keen for ways to make the work easier and improve their creations.And there’s a new crop of gadgets made for them. Can’t be bothered to fiddle with the knobs on your oven? There’s an app for that. Bad at measuring ingredients? TheDropscale uses an iPad or iPhone to get it just right. Think your chopping board is too dumb? TheGKilocan weigh what you’ve chopped. Can’t get that bacon quite right? ThePantelligenthas built in sensors to make sure the temperature is perfect.The Pantelligent can help you cook the perfect steakPhotograph: The GuardianSuch startups argue it’s time for the most technical part of the home to get gadgets, but can they go from the joke of smart fridges to a viable connected market using smart pans and app-connected scales?Connected gadgetsTech has reached many areas of our lives, but not the kitchen, said Stefano Marangoni, the founder ofThingk, which makes theGKilo. “A couple of years ago, we understood that the home appliances market was not involved in the cultural revolution that, thanks to Steve Jobs, changed the hi-tech world,” he said. “So, we started to work to propose on this market segment high quality materials, very good design and an essential, modern user interface, using several types of detectors (touch, gesture etc).”The company’s first gadgets are smart chopping boards and timers, because they’re common tools in most homes, he said. To make devices that work in kitchens, developers can’t simply slap sensors and Bluetooth onto cooking tools, Marangoni said. “In our homes we want beautiful devices, made of natural materials, we don’t want plastics and other cold and cheap materials,” he said. “Moreover, people want technology that simplifies their lives, especially in environments like the kitchen, where the interaction with devices is difficult, because often we have no free hands when we are preparing a recipe, or during a lunch.”A smart chopping board called the GKiloPhotograph: The GuardianJack Phelan, chief operating officer ofDrop, said it was clear a lot of people used their iPads in the kitchen. “People were starting to slowly move to follow recipes on the web rather than from the text books,” he said. “That got us thinking that the kitchen is really an underserved space in the home, in terms of technology. It’s probably the most technical space in the house in one way, but it’s frozen back around the 1960s or 70s, when basically any new appliance was really just a reconfiguration of some form of heating element or motor. You’ve got countless ways to heat things and grill things and juice things, but really, that’s kind of where the innovation sort of stops.”Phelan and the company’s co-founders looked at the kitchen, and realised scales aren’t as well used in the US as on these shores. However, they’ve started to become more prominent as posh cafes started to weigh beans, helping encourage people to do the same at home.The Drop scale helps you accurately measure ingredients, and can convert measurements and scale recipes if you only have a bit of what you need – and all of that work is done in the app, not the hardware. Indeed, Phelan says the real space for innovation is in the software, where the company created a new recipe format that interacts with the scales and can work with other smart appliances, perhaps letting you know that your oven is preheated to the right degree.The idea isn’t to revolutionise cooking, but to make it a bit easier, and thereby encourage more people to do it. “If I’m tired and there’s little barrier between deciding to go and flop and watch TV, and maybe go in and make food. This has just maybe made that decision a little easier, and I can go in and make a great dish, being more confident in how it’s going to turn out,” Phelan said. “It’s really about serving people’s lifestyle and enabling them where possible.”Smart appliancesOf course, appliances have been connected, too – smart fridges do exist, as do ovens with apps. Miele’s SuperVision oven acts as a hub for all your appliances, so you can see how long until the washing machine is done without stepping out of the kitchen, said company spokesman Michael Prempert.If you do leave the kitchen, an app on your smartphone will notify when the roast in the oven needs to be turned and even when dinner will be ready. That’s how it is now. For the future, Miele is trialling IBM’s Watson artificial intelligence – the one thatbeat humans at game show Jeopardy– tocreate recipes, and testing the use of Microsoft’s cloud to deliver recipes. “Instead of having to leaf through cookery books to find a recipe and then to search out the matching automatic program or even make settings manually, the recipe together with the relevant preparation stages is now sent to my tablet or smartphone via the Microsoft Azure cloud,” Prempert said. “The matching automatic program is downloaded to the oven and started at the touch of a button without the need to search.”That all may sound like overkill to get the perfect roast dinner, but Miele intends its efforts to extend beyond cooking aides. Under its “KogniHome” research, Miele and academics are looking for ways to help elderly and disabled people “lead a self-determined life,” Prempert said. “One scenario: before leaving your home you find an electronic message on your mirror in the hall reminding you that the weather is bad and that you should wear weatherproofed clothes,” he said. “A second message could be: please check if you have switched off your oven – still dreams of the future but we are working on it.”What the pros thinkCarla Roqueis a professional, red-sealed pastry chef, and while she’s not sold on the idea of smart kitchen aids, she isn’t averse to them, either. “I think these items are a ‘perk’ – they are not necessary to become a chef,” she said.Indeed, any chef worth their salt won’t need one. “If you need a pan to tell you when the meat is done then you have no place in a commercial kitchen,” she said, but added: “I think there could be a place for this smart pan for the home cook.”“I think I am pretty old-school in my baking, gadgets don’t really do it for me,” she added. “I think if you have the knowledge, you don’t need these tools to help. The cost of them would also affect if a commercial kitchen would buy them. Budgets are important and most kitchens run a very tight budget so spending money on gadgets that are a luxury would not happen.”Andre Dang is the managing director ofManfood, which makes jams, sauces, pickles and more. He agrees with Roque that smart kitchen gadgets aren’t for pros. “As an experienced cook, I don’t need unnecessary gadgets and gizmos that are expensive, and after a while would undoubtedly fall to the wayside,” he said.For the GKilo, he pointed out that chopping boards have to be replaced frequently in professional kitchens, as they get worn down through use, and become a health risk. For the Pantelligent, he thought it was a joke at first, though admits it could be a good, albeit expensive, learning tool. “There is probably a certain type of person out there who these would appeal to, but to be blunt I imagine they have more money than sense.”That doesn’t mean he’s against tech in the kitchen. “Technology in cooking can be great: I use the internet to look up recipes all the time, and with online food videos, there are lots of how-to’s out there that can educate the beginner or someone looking to try something a little more complex,” he said, adding smart pans and chopping boards might help educate new cooks. “But I feel food and cooking is very subjective: it’s down to personal taste and preference as to whether something tastes good, so the Watson idea is great as a reference tool, but the consumer has to hone.”However much tech firms want to sell us smart kitchens, such one-off gadgets will likely have more appeal – the average domestic cook doesn’t have the space or budget for a kitchen full of connected devices, Dang said. “If there is a consumer out there that’s looking to have a smart kitchen that simply does everything for you, my personal view would be that they should either go out to a good restaurant or buy ready meals,” Dang said. “There’s certainly less mess that way.”
It’s Wednesday! Today’s game is Zombie Vikings from Swedish indie developer,Zoink.
This week, Google announced a new holding company,Alphabet, that will oversee its increasingly disparate industries. No longer will we have to wonder why a search engine company is dabbling in biomedicine or self-driving cars (if you were actually wondering that, which I wasn’t). Now, the search engine is just one of Alphabet’s many concerns.Related:Inside Alphabet: why Google rebranded itself and what happens nextI can’t bring myself to get especially worked up about this. I can build you a nice soapbox speech about the human aspects of the tech industry, but when it comes to the actual business stuff I have the acumen of an elephant seal. Someone needs to award me an honorary... whatever the opposite of an MBA is. However, I do have one burning question about Alphabet, which is this: if it’s the next iteration of Google, why are so many of its companies named after nouns?I’ve never been privy to a company’s naming process, but I’ve seen people try to name magazines and I’ve seen people try to name bands. In the pre-internet era, you could go with “Time” or “The The” without a second thought; the salient questions were mostly “is it memorable,” “does it sound cool” and “will it look good on band merch/softball jerseys.” These days, though, there are additional considerations: is the domain name available? OK, but is the domain name available for less than $90,000? And is it Googleable?The easiest way to achieve Googleability is to use an uncommon or made-up word, or a creative phrase. Or you could smash two words together, or misspell them – hence the CamelCase brand names popular in the early 2000s and the Removd Vowl trend slightly later. The point is, you want your company name to refer only to your company, not to your company and also a bunch of unrelated objects. For most people, for all intents and purposes, if it can’t be found in the first two pages of Google results, it doesn’t exist.Of course there are ways to kick yourself up the rankings, but until you dominate, a common noun name is a liability. (Plus, the commoner your noun is, the more likely other businesses have gotten to it first. Even with Google’s new venture all over the news, my search for “nest” – the smart-thermostat company now owned by Google/Alphabet – brought up as its first result The Turkey’s Nest, a Brooklyn bar specializing in giant absinthe slushies. Google knows where I am and what I like.)Related:Why Google is restructuring, why the name Alphabet and how it affects youAlphabet has considered none of this, by all appearances. Its company names are painfully generic. “Fiber” is going to have competing results from nutrition sites, knitting sites,and-optic cables. “Life Sciences” – don’t even get me started.Allthe life sciences? Really? “Calico”? That is a cat, or a dress worn by Laura Ingalls Wilder. It’s like they have a secret room with a baby in it, and they just name companies after whatever the baby points at. Or whatever noises come out of its mouth, maybe – that would explain “Google.” And “Alphabet,” now that I think of it. Perhaps as Mystery Googlebaby ages we’ll get ever-larger umbrella companies called Poop Jokes, Awkward Pick-Up Lines, and Pass the Bong.Of course, Google is owned by Google, so when you Google Alphabet you currently get a bunch of news hits about the new corporation. (Bing results are about half Alphabet and half, you know, the alphabet; Yahoo is mostly the alphabet.) When you control the search engine, the search engine holds no power over you; if Google is in charge of whether something exists, it can just rearrange existence in its favor. Which raises the question: what’s going to happen when people want to look up, say, the life sciences? Or the alphabet? Will they be relegated to the existential void of the third results page? Please, Google/Alphabet, cool it with the noun names, before you rewrite the nature of reality.
Privacy as a legal construct is relatively recent. Until Samuel Warren and Louis Brandeis penned their famous 1890 essay“The Right to Privacy”, private information was protected from disclosure and surveillance by another name: the secrecy of correspondence. Perhaps ironically, the right to secrecy has long been considered sacrosanct – both in domestic and international communications – a fundamental precondition for the honest and free flow of ideas and information and the development of a mature international political system. The right to have secrets, despitecenturies of legal lineageand a firm grounding indemocratic theory, remains elusive in an era of ubiquitous digital communication (and hackers hell-bent on outingAshley Madison subscribers). But it is central to the vitality of democratic and international governance.America’s Constitutional Postal System, which preceded its declaration of independence by one year, was founded in large part as a reaction to the threat posed by British control over – and surveillance of – this crucial 18th-century communications network. Benjamin Franklin’s close associate,William Goddard, whose private postal network became the backbone of the American post office,wrotein 1774: “It is not only our letters that are liable to be stopped and opened by a Ministerial mandate, and their contents construed into treasonable conspiracies, but our newspapers, those necessary and important alarms in time of publick danger, may be rendered of little consequence for want of circulation.” Crucially, the Constitutional Post (not to be confused with Britain’s “Parliamentary Post”)legally and professionally protectedboth private (letters) and public (newspapers) communication from surveillance and censorship. These protections proved so influential, that the American founding fathers inculcated these same protections into the Bill of Rights and constitution – two of themost meaningful documents in history.As electronic information technologies evolved, from the telegraph, to the telephone, to the internet, global interest in protecting the secret correspondence only continued to increase. This fixation on secrecy evolved out of an interest in protecting diplomatic secrets as well as corporate information. Mass adoption of the telegraph washampered by fearsof a loss of control over personal information transmitted electronically by private companies and foreign governments.Anxiety over the inviolability of international correspondence was no minor concern. Upon establishing the first transatlantic telegraph cable in 1858, the American President James BuchanandispatchedQueen Victoria, urging that communications be held “sacred in passing to their places of destination, even in the midst of hostilities.”He went on to say: “May the Atlantic Telegraph, under the blessing of Heaven, prove to be a bond of perpetual peace and friendship between the kindred nations, and an instrument of Divine Providence to diffuse religion, civilization, liberty, and law throughout the world.” Buchanan’s optimism in the capacity for communications technologies to engender co-operation among states is omnipresent when one examines thehistory of technological innovationand so is the sanctity of secrecy.Secrecy was seen as so crucial to the integrity of communications systems that Belgium, France and Prussia signed aTelegraph Convention in Paris in 1852that allowed telegraph lines to “pass frontiers without interruptions” and required a right to confidential correspondence for all citizens. By 1861, 11 more European countries had joined the convention.Its success, and growing concern regarding the need to extend the reach of and institutionalise these foundational principles of international communication, resulted in the creation of the first intergovernmental organization in 1865: the International Telegraph Union. Renamed the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) in 1932, the fifth article of the Union’schartercompels member states to protect the confidentiality of messages crossing international borders.Ten years after the ITU’s inauguration, in 1875, a second intergovernmental organization was established, also to coordinate international information flows: the General Postal Union, which was renamed the Universal Postal Union (UPU) three years later. According to the director of Britain’s Postal Services, Brigadier-General F. H. Williamson, the UPU was, “the first union in history including all the nations of the world.”By 1900, Josef Zemp, the head of Swiss Rail and Posttrumpetedthe UPU as “the most powerful work for peace which history has ever seen.” In fact, the UPU and ITU were so integral to international politics that adherence to their provisions were often among the first commitments made by newly established governments. Enthusiasm for the emergence of these first international institutions sparked further interest and confidence in the efficacy of collective governance.Of course, international law did not stop governments from snooping on domestic and foreign correspondence.Historians have exposednumerous, robust governmental programs to monitor mail and telegraph systems. Crucially, however, the prevailing norm was to guarantee an individual’s right to private communications. This meant thatstates had to justifyexceptions to the rule, which facilitated accountability and, when the rule of law was broken,consequences.Central to the early success of these institutions was a willingness among states to agree to shared rules that would restrict their capacity to act for the sake of maintaining the integrity of the systems themselves. Speaking at the fiftieth anniversary of the UPU in 1924, Swedish Post director Claes Juhlinarguedthat international institutions only work when states “have the will to subordinate special interests to general interests. It is in possessing these great qualities that we shall best and most thoroughly serve both our own interests and those of the world.”Concern regarding the confidentiality of messages crossing international borders played a central role in driving governments to agree to set their national interests aside to allow for a stable, secure system of international communication. This concept was integral to the effectiveness of the first international institutions that laid the groundwork for the entire UN system of international governance. Put simply, if states can’t trust each other to protect the integrity of a letter or a phone call, how can they be expected to set aside their parochial interests when it comes to addressing bigger problems, like poverty, war, and environmental catastrophe?So why this stroll down memory lane? Because the historic role of secrecy in international relations has clear and direct application to contemporary debates about privacy and surveillance. Recently, FBI director James ComeyattackedSilicon Valley for embracing end-to-end encryption in an effort to “deprive police and intelligence companies of potentially life-saving information.” What Comey overlooks is the consequences of such surveillance for the integrity of the global communications infrastructure. If governments and companies can’t trust the web, they will revert to closed, protected spaces, likely traceable to modern state boundaries. Such a global communications architecture would almost certainly slow the global economy, not too mention American intelligence gathering and law enforcement capabilities.So, where did the principle of secrecy of correspondence go?Codified in international and domestic laws, how was the norm not considered parallel to, if not more important than, protections for free speech online? Looking back, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s articulation of theinternet-freedom paradigm—which inculcated the internet as a shared, public space – wasn’t simply lofty neoliberal rhetoric. It was adeliberate framingof human rights online that protects free speech but not the anonymity of that speech or the secrecy of one’s communications. According to Western legal doctrine, once one enters a shared, public space, their individual rights are curtailed in order to preserve the security and integrity of that space. In a public park, for example, it is perfectly legitimate for a government to monitor your behavior and listen to your conversations.Mail, on the other hand, is considered a specific transmission of information between two or more people, and is affordedrobust protectionsfrom government intrusions on the content of the messages. The content of telephone calls, too, is typically considered private, unless they take place in a public place. International treaties and organizations continue to ensure the secrecy of correspondence, as long as that correspondence takes place via traditional, twentieth-century means of communicating. So why wouldn’t analogous attempts to communicate, when taking place via the internet, be afforded similar types of protections?The answer comes down to economics and geopolitics. Themodern internet economyin many ways evolved out of a casual disregard for secrecy and privacy; it isdependenton gathering and analyzing individual user behavior and benefits a handful of western countries and companies.Targeted advertisingaccounts for the vast majority of internet revenue. It is a technique incompatible with the principle of secrecy of correspondence. If correspondence (and browsing) remained secret, internet companies couldn’t promise advertisers that their ads will be effective. Advertisers would thus revert to traditional mass-communication platforms to reach their potential consumers.As a result of theSnowden revelations, however, the internet economy is changing fast.Some expertsestimate the economic fallout will cost American technology companies $180bn in business.Businessesandconsumersalike are demanding changes that necessitate changes to the underlying business model, including ways to protect the sanctity of private information. Internet giants will have to decide if they want to go the way of theEast India Companyor adapt to the emerging dynamics of the post-Snowden internet economy.Protecting the secrecy of correspondence would limit governments from wholescale surveillance, though, it wouldn’t prevent law enforcement from pursuing private information through lawful means (eg a warrant). But law enforcement agencies havebecome dependent on surveillancefor even themost mundane policing. In today’s golden age of surveillance, it is easy to forget that governments successfully weathered robust privacy protections for centuries. Indeed, such protections allowed fortrustbetween people and governments, trust which was leveraged to establish broader agreements, treaties, and norms.When the UPU was formed, statesmen understood that establishing shared standards and rules for communication across national borders, including protecting the confidentiality of messages, was critical. Their commitments became integral to the emergence of today’s international institutions, the bedrock of modern international relations.Yet, today, international internet governance isveritably in shambles; and governments are rushing to try to control this crucial digital space by any means necessary, a trend I refer to as the rise ofinformation sovereignty. With this in mind, acknowledging the necessary fallout from the Snowden revelations and the real possibility of the emergence ofnation-based intranets, perhaps it is time to consider expanding our definition of internet freedom to include a guarantee of secrecy of correspondence. Such a move may, at a minimum, provide the historical context for protecting the integrity of online communications and establish a path forward for a shared, global, and democratically inclined internet.
One day after Google’sreorganisation under the umbrella brand Alphabet, you have to dig through three pages of internet search results just to find a single reference to an alphabet of any other kind – and when you do, you find Alphabet, a fleet-car services company owned by German auto giant BMW.The Google rebrand surprised BMW, according to Agence France-Presse, and is particularly awkward because the companies are competing with each other in the area of car automation, and on Monday BMW announced the purchase of HERE, a Google Maps competitor, from Nokia for $3.1bn, according to AFP.BMW’s alphabet.com page – Google’s Alphabet is atabc.xyz– was down for most of Tuesday under an enormous traffic load. But when it came back up, it carried the message that “the possibility of any trademark infringement is currently under review”.BMW is not the only loser in the Alphabet stakes. Erwin Wagenhofer’s groundbreaking documentary Alphabet, a damning indictment of modern education, has also been vanquished from the front pages of search results.And Google’s rebranding came as a surprise to Babu Choudhury, the owner of Alphabet Lounge, a bar on 7th Street in Alphabet City, a district on the east side of Manhattan.“Ha! I didn’t know that,” said Choudhury. “I don’t know why they changed it. Why would they change their name from Google to Alphabet? This is my name. This is Alphabet Lounge.”He had no hard feelings, however. “Would I invite Google to come in and hang out? Absolutely! Why not?”Alphabet Energy, a California company which turns waste heat into electricity, also took Google’s name change in good humour.For the record,@alphabetenergyhas not acquired@google. Still making waste heat valuable.#thermoelectrics#wasteheatrecovery#heatispower&mdash; Alphabet Energy (@alphabetenergy)August 10, 2015Dr Matthew Scullin, the founder of Alphabet Energy, said he thought he was being pranked when he first heard of Google’s change. “It was a little bit of a shock,” he said.He thinks his company will probably not be damaged by the page-ranking issue – “unless Google plans to get into thermo-electrics, which is our field. We’re the leading brand. Our customers recognise our brand.”He has no plans to change the company name any time soon. “I’m obviously biased, but it’s a great name. I’m glad they also figured it out.” He said they had joked about changing his company’s name to Google Energy – “but no serious plans”.Alphabet Energy was founded in 2009, while Scullin was doing his PhD at Berkeley, so they were by no means the group with the earliest claim (that honour seemed to go to Sesame Street).Alphabet? It&#39;s been part of Sesame Street since 1969.http://t.co/eMwRRNzZZ2&mdash; Sesame Street (@sesamestreet)August 10, 2015Lucas Lepola, director of Alphabet Bags, a UK accessories brand, said that at the moment it was hard to say whether there would be a long-term negative effect of Google’s annexation of the word.“I mean, hopefully not,” he said. “It had crossed my mind.” He said that lots of people come to them direct rather than through Google. “So it remains to be seen.”Lepola was philosophical about Google’s use of the word. “It’s not something we invented; that would have been weird,” he said. “It’s a good word to use.”Google has not entirely cornered their market, though. If you go toabc.wtf– rather than the domain Alphabet have chosen – you will find yourself sneakily redirected to Microsoft’s competing search engine Bing.
Google is the same size today as it was at the start of the week, it just doesn’t feel like that. The behemoth that is valued on Wall Street, give or take a few dollars, at $350bn is to be reconfigured so that its big money-spinning Google-related businesses like Search, YouTube, Chrome, Android and GoogleMaps remain part of Google, and its proliferating “moonshot” projects like its high-speed Fiber network or its anti-aging projectCalico, or itsself-driving carare each contained in separate companies. They will all be part of a giant umbrella group calledAlphabet– which after another twist or two, will also contain Google. As the Twitter gag asked, can 26 letters possibly be enough?Ever since the restructuring was announced in aLarry Page blogat the close of trading in New York on Monday evening,the techand business worlds have been trying to work outwhat it means. On balance,business has concludedthat it is a smart move (although one or two observers wonder if there isless to it than meets the eye). Google’s share price jumped 5% on the news. But China hadblocked the Alphabet website(abc.xyz) within 24 hours of its launch. And some of the world’s regulators and many consumers are looking sceptically at the impact that it might have on data protection, privacy, tax liabilities and the impact of the reorganisation on the megalith’s power to monetise the data of its billions of users.On the positive side, analysts welcome the greater clarity that the new structure seems to offer. It will make the profit margins on Google operations clearer and the potential losses in the high-risk development businesses more apparent. Investors anxious about cost controls may welcome that. Now that the founders are moving over to development, leaving Google in the capable hands of its proposed new chief executiveSundar Pichai, it may escape the fate of what once seemed indomitable global businesses like Nokia, or to a lesser extent Microsoft, which failed to spot the next big thing.But the restructuring may not only be about maintaining the company’s legendary innovative energy. It could be a bid to duck anti-trust actions which have formerly been brought in the US against, for example, AT&amp;T. In the EU, the only commercial jurisdiction to launch repeated challenges against Google’s operations, the European parliament has demanded that Google is broken up and earlier this year the European commission launched two new investigations of abuse of its dominant market position – thatGoogle search unfairly promotes its own shopping sitesand that Google’s Android operating system isunfairly bundling appsin a way that restricts rivals’ ability to compete. In the current climate, when progressive opinion is tempted to turn against the EU, it is worth remembering that Brussels is one of the very few places capable of taming a corporate behemoth such as Google.It is Spain, France and Germany that launched the challenge in the European court, demanding the “right to be forgotten”. Unexpectedly, Google conceded – but only in the country where the request was made. France is now fighting to extend the process of removing links to contested sites globally, to prevent the construction of a worldwide “database of ruin” where every internet user can be traced to some potentially damaging (and not necessarily accurate) piece of information. Google countered by arguing that it would result in a Swiss cheese internet, full of holes, that is disproportionate and unnecessary when Google claims to be blind to search results. Except that ina post-Snowden world, no one quite believes that any more. And US copyright law is already applied to Google’s global index, so any breach can be removed, wherever it occurs. This tension between privacy, freedom of expression and intellectual property, and between national sovereignty and global business, is a long way from resolution – just as the real implications of Alphabet will take more than Google Translate to fathom.
When Chris Mullin publishes his long-awaited sequel to A Very British Coup (MI5 ousted my fictional PM, 11 August), he’ll certainly have to update the opening sentence. On my rare visits to the Athenaeum, it always seems to be full of left-leaning academics. I suspect the news of a Corbyn victory would be greeted there by the popping of Bollinger corks.Professor Philip MurphyDirector, Institute of Commonwealth Studies• In the 1960s a columnist on the San Francisco Chronicle calledHerb Caeninvented LOL and used it referring to “little old ladies” (Still laughing out loud, 11 August). His early columns added “in tennis shoes”. Later, LOL was sufficient for readers to catch the drift. Now, of course, no one would dare and everyone wears them anyway.Judith BrundinOxford• I thought LOL in Cotswold emails usually meant “leg over later”.Michael Gordon-JonesHarwich, Essex• “Buttons gassed and robbed” (8 August). Police seeking two plain females, believed related?Mike HineKingston upon Thames, Surrey
Every month a hundred billion searches run through Google – a repository of the world’s curiosity, hopes, dreams and fears. Google has been a verb in the Oxford English Dictionary since 2006, it is valued at $445bn and last year had revenues of $66bn. But as its billionaire founders have made clear, none of this is enough.In a stunning move on Monday night, Google rebranded itselfAlphabet. The new company will be a holding company whose largest asset will be Google the search firm. But founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin made clear that while G is for Google, it would be just one of the letters in its portfolio.Alphabet will be run by Page, Brin and chief financial officer Ruth Porat. Alphabet’s new Google subsidiary – including the search business, YouTube and the Android and Chrome operating systems – will be led bySundar Pichai, who had been running most of Google’s major businesses since last year. Wall Street loves Pichai and the businesses he now runs, which generated nearly all of Google’s revenue last year.Outside of Google, Alphabet’s subsidiaries will each have their own chief executive, reporting to Page. The structure is reportedly modelled after billionaire investor Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway, which owns a complex portfolio of businesses including clothes manufacturer Fruit of the Loom, insurer Geico and this week boughtPrecision Castparts,maker of aerospace and other industrial parts.Google has come a long way since it started as a search engine 16 years ago. Now a tech conglomerate with interests in everything from media todriverless cars, medical devices, longevity research, smart home appliances, fibre-optic cable and drone delivery, being seen as “just” a search company – no matter how successful – is a handicap, according to its founders.Related:Where is Google taking us?“As Sergey and I wrote in the original founders’ letter 11 years ago, ‘Google is not a conventional company. We do not intend to become one’,” Page wrote in ablogpost. “As part of that, we also said that you could expect us to make ‘smaller bets in areas that might seem very speculative or even strange when compared to our current businesses.’ From the start, we’ve always strived to do more, and to do important and meaningful things with the resources we have.“Fundamentally, we believe this allows us more management scale, as we can run things independently that aren’t very related,” wrote Page.Wall Street liked Monday’s move, sending Google’s share price up over 5% initially. Investors have long been irritated by a lack of clarity on how much Google is spending on its “moonshot” projects. The new corporate structure, they hope, will give them greater clarity.Scott Kessler, equity analyst at S&amp;P Capital IQ, said the move would allow Alphabet to “run the Google operating unit in a way that gives people greater insight” while taking the pressure off Google’s early stage, money-losing ventures that – for now – Wall Street is less interested in. But, Kessler warned, investors would be watching closely to see that extra clarity was delivered.Google’s move comes at a time when rivals like Facebook and Amazon are moving away from their core businesses. Amazon became the world’s most valuable retailer last month,beating out Walmart, but not because of its retail business: the company’s shares soared after particularly good results from Amazon Web Service, AWS, the company’s collection of remote cloud computing services. Facebook now counts WhatsApp and Instagram among its portfolio of businesses – two ventures that are growing faster than its core business.Betting on your one core business, no matter how profitable, is risky. Just ask Microsoft, which has suffered as the internet has eaten into its Windows business.Technology is revolutionary, not evolutionary, Google co-founder Pagewarned staffa few years ago as he stepped back from day-to-day running of the search engine business he had helped found. In a memo to staff he said the move was meant to make sure he could get the “next generation of big bets off the ground” and warned if Google didn’t pick up the pace it risked becoming irrelevant.Not everything changes. Page and Brin’s control of Alphabet will be just as tight as their control of Google. They retainsome 52% of all voting sharesbetween them. But experts speculate their are bigger changes to come.Peter Henning, professor of law at Wayne State University Law School, said: “It’s a very complex structure – they’re setting it up for something else down the road. It is form over substance, but you have to have the form in place before you can do the substance. It gives them a lot of flexibility for financing and for spin-offs.”Henning suggested that Google could push its less-profitable businesses into silos that could be sold or issue their own stocks, eventually. “Once they have this new structure, this sort of upside-down merger where Alphabet is on top and Google is underneath it, I suspect they will create a new wholly owned subsidiary of Alphabet to put those other businesses in – self-driving cars, Google Glass, whatever other wastes of money or long-term investments they’ve been involved in.”Is there atax dodgein this shell game? Analysts don’t see one yet but the company (and its peers) has a long history of clever tax avoidance schemes, and critics will be watching closely. “We’re not commenting on the whys of the financial structure,” a Google spokesperson said via email.Nor are critics of Google’s dominance likely to be put off by the move to Alphabet.The European Commission accused the company in April ofengaging in anti-competitive practicesby privileging its own products and services over those of competitors in its search engine. There have been calls for a breakup.Related:'This is my name': businesses called Alphabet react to Google’s rebrandingThe move “changes nothing about the company’s impact and challenges it poses for consumers”, the nonprofit public interest group Consumer Watchdog said.“A rose by any other name is still a rose and Google by any other name is still the internet giant,” said John Simpson, Consumer Watchdog’s privacy project director.“Alphabet through what will now be called its subsidiary will continue to track us around the web and build digital dossiers about us. It makes little difference to Google’s users.“This structure allows Page and co-founder Sergey Brin to keep investors happy and continue to have their toys like Google Glass and robot cars,” said Simpson. “We don’t know where in the new corporate structure the robot car project will end up, but you can be sure Alphabet will push the vehicles at us before the cars are ready.”
Google’s Street View cameras have photographed locations across the world, allowing armchair tourists a view of anything from the Tower of London to Tiananmen Square. But one address is notable by its absence. The office building at 2711 Centerville Road in Wilmington, Delaware, a small town just south of Philadelphia, has not been captured by the Street View cameras. And yet this is the official address of Google Inc, the holding company of one of the world’s most successful software groups.Related:Why Google is restructuring, why the name Alphabet and how it affects youGoogle was founded in California and incorporated there in 1998, but in August 2003, a year before its initial public offering, the group reincorporated in Delaware. Thecreation of Alphabet Incmaintains the status quo, with Google confirming the new entity will also be registered in the small north-eastern coastal state whose tolerance of corporate secrecy and business friendly tax laws have seen it labelled as one of the world’s top tax havens.There are more companies than people in Delaware. Over 1m corporate entities are registered in a state with a population of just 936,000. One of the main attractions for many firms is section 1902 (b) (8) of the Delaware corporation income tax code, which exempts from corporation tax any company whose main activities are “confined to the maintenance and management of their intangible investments … and the collection and distribution of the income from such investments or from tangible property physically located outside of this state”. Intangible investments, the code states, include not only stocks and bonds, but patents and trademarks. Essentially, companies with no real operations in Delaware pay no tax there.Companies like Toys R Us and Kmart have famously used this exemption, known as the Delaware loophole, to reduce taxable profits in other states. The Delaware holding company owns the intellectual property, for which subsidiaries in other states make royalty payments. These payments in turn reduce the taxable profits of the subsidiaries.Whether Google has taken advantage of the Delaware loophole is unknown, because Delaware, in common with most US states, does not require the filing of public accounts for private companies, or for subsidiaries of public companies.Google’s tax affairs in Irelandhave received far more attention, partly because the Irish state does at least insist on high levels of transparency, with annual accounts for Google’s subsidiaries here freely available online, as they are in the UK, through theCompanies Registration Office.But the big tax savings appear to have been made outside the US. According to stock exchange filings – Google is listed on Nasdaq – the company’s effective tax rate on its worldwide income was 19% last year. This is some way short of the US federal tax rate of 35%, and of the average combined federal and state rate of 39.1%. That is mainly because Google’s corporation tax rate outside America is so low. In 2014, Google estimated it would have to pay $774m on taxable foreign income of $9.3bn, giving a tax rate of just 8.3%. US state and federal taxes provided for last year add up to $2.6bn, about 32% of its $7.9bn in domestic income. Add back a federal research and development credit of $318m, and the tax rate rises to 36% – close to the 39.1% average.There is another advantage to retaining the Delaware incorporation. A 2013settlementof a case brought by shareholders in the Delaware courts allowed Google’s founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin to retain control of the company using three classes of shares, each with different voting rights. The founders hold just under 55% of the voting rights, despite owning a mere 13% of the stock.According to the economist Nicholas Shaxson, author of Treasure Islands: Tax Havens and the Men who Stole the World, the big draw for Google is Delaware’s approach to just these sort of corporate governance issues.“Delaware has a few attractions for multinationals,” says Shaxson. “The real selling point is lax (or laisser-faire) corporate governance which gives management great leeway to do things in their own way without having to worry too much about pesky irritants like shareholders and other stakeholders.”
“Sergey and I are seriously in the business of starting new things,”writes Google co-founder Larry Page, in his blogpost launching the company’s latest venture to the world: the birth of a Google mother-brand, henceforth to be known as Alphabet. It is something of an understatement for an organisation set on conquering every aspect of our known existence, having grown from the small ambition of indexing all the world’s information, into a web of endless autonomous divisions that now tackle everything fromself-driving carsto roaminginternet balloonstoslowing down the process of ageing.So what brand could represent this new catch-all umbrella, an overarching vehicle for the company’s voracious new forays into further-flung fields?The evolution of the Google brandover the years has always reflected the company’s changing aspirations, from the homespun novelty WordArt of a pair of Stanford maths geeks, to the slick logo we see today.The rainbow Google! lost its exclamation mark in 1999, the jaunty drop-shadow was scrapped in 2010, and the chubby 3D letters were finally slimmed and flattened on the page in 2013, complete with a matching family of Google Apps logos, all rendered in the same unthreatening pre-school palette.But Alphabet represents another direction entirely. While the word Google was born of the fun, nonsensical word trend of early dotcom years (as a play on Googol, the mathematical term for the number 1 followed by 100 zeros), Alphabet speaks more of the realm of a grown-up corporate, with the anonymous, universal ring of a management consultancy or venture capitalist firm. Indeed, Page says:We are also stoked about growing our investment arms, Ventures and Capital, as part of this new structure ... we also like that it means alpha‑bet (Alpha is investment return above benchmark), which we strive for!Alphabet, drawn in a restrained red sans-serif typeface, marshalled to the bottom corner of each page, is more about rock-solid return on investment than quirky startup risk-taking. Because there’s no longer really any risk when you own the whole world.Related:Google to restructure into new holding company called AlphabetPage says they also chose the name because language is “one of humanity’s most important innovations”, and the core of how they index with Google search; but it also points to an ambition to claim ownership over the fundamental building blocks of everyday life. They might as well have called it DNA Inc.The domain name isabc.xyz(becausealphabet.comwas already taken by a fleet management division of BMW Group – which points towards potential future trademark issues with Google’s car ambitions), a URL that also points towards Alphabet’s all-encompassing reach and its plan for absolute domination of everything in between.It’s logotype may be more grown up, but Alphabet hasn’t shaken off the cutesy pre-school vibe altogether. The holding page for the company features a scatter of children’s alphabet building blocks, as if to reassure us that, aw-shucks, it’s still the same old cuddly Google beneath the rebrand. “Don’t worry,” adds Page at the end of his chummy missive, “we’re still getting used to the name too!”The evolution of Google’s logo.Photograph: GoogleLittle else about the brand has been revealed, but the likelihood is that those authoritative red letters probably won’t be very visible. Alphabet will act instead as an incubator for myriad pursuits and offshoots, each with their own identities, including the smart-home division, Nest, and the sci-fi speculations of X Labs, as well as paving the way for further acquisitions. As Page puts it:We are not intending for this to be a big consumer brand with related products – the whole point is that Alphabet companies should have independence and develop their own brands.A bit like the phenomenon ofstealth Starbucks branches, it represents the point at which Google has become so ubiquitous, it must fade into the background or else risk shouting out its own success. The more it tries to fade into background anonymity, the more important it will be to drag it into the spotlight, before the entire world gets subsumed into the great Alphabet soup.
Google, Facebook, Twitter and Yahoo have accused US film studios of attempting to resurrect the Stop Online Piracy Act (Sopa), which was defeated in Congress in 2012.The US technology companies joined together tofile a brief (pdf)with New York courts urging judges to strike down a preliminary injunction filed by six film studios of the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA), which calls for a blockade of the alleged piracy site Movietube.Sony, Universal, Warner Bros, Disney and Paramount are seeking to remove Movietube from the internet and stop internet companies linking to or providing services to the site, including search engines and social networks.“Plaintiffs’ effort to bind the entire Internet to a sweeping preliminary injunction is impermissible. It violates basic principles of due process ... [and] ignores the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA), which specifically limits the injunctive relief that can be imposed on online service providers in copyright cases,” the technology companies write in the amicus brief.They state that they do not condone the use of their services for copyright infringement and that they work with rights holders to tackle issues, but that the “proposed injunction is legally impermissible and would have serious consequences for the entire online community”.“In pursuing the Defendants here, and attempting to resurrect the defeated Stop Online Piracy Act Plaintiffs disregard established limits on judicial power and the careful balance that Congress has struck between the rights of online service providers and copyright owners. Those protections cannot be swept aside so readily,” the technology companies write.Sopa defeatedSopa was a bill put before the US House of Representatives intended to significantly expand the powers of US authorities to combat online trafficking in copyrighted and counterfeited goods.The sweeping act would have given companies that claimed their intellectual property was being infringed the power to request court orders to forbid advertising networks such as Google, as well as payment facilities, from conducting business with infringing sites.Complainants could also ban search engines from linking to allegedly infringing sites and obtain court orders requiring internet service providers (ISPs) to block access to those sites.The technology companies claim that the movie studios are attempting to use the injunction to perform the same functions as were stipulated by Sopa.Despite the backing of the MPAA, of which the film studios in question form a part, Sopa was defeated in 2012 following a public outcry that prompted some 115,000 websites to protest against the act. Ten million people signed a petition against Sopa, while eight million made phone calls to Congress and a further four million sent emails.“Amici urge the Court not only to strike the objectionable provisions in Plaintiffs’ proposed injunction, but also to issue a clear ruling setting out the limits on injunctions against online intermediaries. Such a ruling would assist other courts facing similarly overbroad requests,” write the technology companies.•Google slams secret Hollywood attempt to ‘censor the internet’•Cybersecurity bill could ‘sweep away’ internet users’ privacy, agency warns•Controversial cybersecurity bill on hold as experts charge it won’t stop hackers
If you haven’t heard of Alphabet, don’t worry: neither had most people in the world until 5pm EST (10pm BST) on Monday, whenGoogle announced a restructuring. When it’s all done, the search company will become a wholly owned subsidiary of Alphabet Inc, a new holding company headed up by Larry Page, Sergey Brin and Eric Schmidt, formerly the bosses of Google.It may seem like a simple name change, but the reality is more complicated. Later this year, Google will create Alphabet as a wholly owned subsidiary of itself. Alphabet will then create its own wholly owned subsidiary, which will merge “with and into” Google, leaving Google – through the magic of corporate finance – a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Alphabet. Confused? You’re not alone.So what is Alphabet?Larry Page, the former chief executive of Google who is now in the same job at Alphabet,has a helpful answer:Alphabet is mostly a collection of companies.It is easiest to think of the firm as a holding company, lying somewhere between Warren Buffet’s private equity firm Berkshire Hathaway and the massive conglomerate that is General Electric. Like the former, Alphabet won’t have any consumer facing role itself, instead existing almost as an anti-brand, designed to give its subsidiaries room to develop their own identities.But like General Electric, Alphabet mostly owns companies founded and managed internally. Of the major subsidiaries named inGoogle’s SEC filing, such as Google X, the company’s experimental division, and its longevity research firm Calico, only one, the home-automation company Nest, joined Google as part of an acquisition. That means that it is unlikely to be anywhere near as hands-off as Berkshire Hathaway, which has just 24 employees, and should give Page, Brin and Schmidt plenty to occupy their time.A cyclist and a self-driving car at Google’s HQ in California in 2012.Photograph: Justin Sullivan/GettyWhat happens to Google?The old Google isn’t going anywhere. While Page describes it as “a bit slimmed down”, almost every aspect of Google that typical consumers interact with is staying a part of the new, lighter, Google 2.0. That includes YouTube, Android, Maps and Gmail, as well as the company’s search and advertising businesses. What gets hived off are the companies “that are pretty far afield of our main internet products”, such as Calico and Life Sciences.Also separated out from Google are the company’s financial wings, soon to be known simply as Capital and Ventures. These have a history of making a lot of money for Google through investing in startups and other stocks, most notably Uber, which the company bought 6.8% of in 2013. That share alone is now worth $3.4bn (£2.2bn).In other words, even after this reorganisation, New Google will still be one of the biggest companies in the world. It’s just that Alphabet will be bigger still.The Google Maps app on a smartphone.Photograph: Dado Ruvic/ReutersWill anything change for me?The short answer is: no. The vast majority of Google’s customers only use services that will stay firmly under Google’s branding. YouTube, Gmail, search, Maps, ads, Android, photos, and more will be functionally no different from how they exist at the moment.Some of Google’s consumer brands are being shuffled around, however. The biggest of them is Nest, started by Tony Fadell. That company was independent until it wasacquired by Google in 2014, and now it will undergo another change in corporate structure, becoming a direct subsidiary of Alphabet.Elsewhere, if you live in one of the communities served by Google’s ultra-high-speed internet provider, Google Fiber, that too is likely to drop the Google branding some time in the next year. But don’t expect it to become Alphabet Fiber either.A Nest thermostat is adjusted in a home.Photograph: George Frey/GettyRelated:Sundar Pichai: Meet the new CEO of a 'slimmed-down' GoogleWho will head up the new Google?Once Page, Schmidt and Bryn jump over to Alphabet, Google itself is getting a new chief executive:Sundar Pichai, formerly the boss of Android and then Google’s product chief from October 2014. So important is Pichai to Google that some have speculated that keeping him in the company is even the motivation for the entire reshuffle: rumours are flying that Pichai was tempted to jump ship to head up Twitter, and that only a chief executive title could keep him on board.Would the company really go to all this trouble to keep one man?Probably not. And it’s not clear why Pichai would want to go to Twitter, a company so small that Google could buy it outright using just the $20bn by which its market cap increased following the Alphabet announcement.Instead, the reshuffle is likely to be motivated by the reasons Page cites in his letter: allowing Google to focus on doing what it does best, without running the risk that the world will change around it and leave the company a dinosaur from another age (take a look at IBM, Nokia or Microsoft for an example of what can happen if a market leader takes its eye off the ball). Meanwhile, the other companies under Alphabet can make the gambles that will bring it dominance in new areas.graphic showing Google's new structureWhy else might Google have made this move?Analysts are trying to uncover the unspoken benefits the restructuring brings Google. For one thing, the absurdly complicated method with which it’s carried out the restructure suggests that there’s more than meets the eye. Why not just change the name of the company, for instance?The reshuffle may also provide the company a bit of insulation from regulatory issues, particularly in the EU. Google itself is still a massive beast, which will have to tread carefully around regulators, but it will be easier to present firms such as Nest, Calico and Fiber as separate entities if they are only united by a common owner. And, if the worst happens for Google, it would be easier to hive off the subsidiaries entirely.Google employees at the company’s offices in Berlin, Germany.Photograph: Bloomberg/GettyBut why Alphabet?A mixture of terrible jokes, grand ambition, and carefully studied banality. The pun comes from the fact that “alpha” is a financial term meaning return on investment above the benchmark, making Alphabet a good Alpha-bet; the ambition comes from the fact that the Alphabet is one of humanity’s most important inventions, as well as the implicit claim (in the company’sabc.xyzurl) that it encompasses everything from A to Z; and the banality comes from the fact that Alphabet is perhaps the most generic name imaginable, perfectly standing for anything and nothing at the same time.And for those who think that Alphabet sounds like the sinister villain of a James Bond film, we’ve got some bad news: “don’t be evil” is only Google’s motto. Alphabet has no tagline.
Some users of Windows 10 arereporting issuesinstalling one of Microsoft’s first updates for the new operating system, which traps them in a reboot loop.TheKB3081424 update,released on Wednesday, collects a series of smaller updates into one bigger patch designed to make the updating process for new users simpler and easier.But some users arereporting issueswith the update, which reaches a certain percentage of installation before failing and rolling back.“It downloads, reboot to install. Gets to 30% and reboots. Gets to 59% and reboots. Gets to 59% again and then states something went wrong so uninstalling the update. Wait a few minutes and reboot. Back to login screen,” saidMicrosoft forum user BrettDM. “This happens without fail, every single time.”Update problems are nothing new for Windows, as the sheer number and variety PCs onto which the updates have to install mean that it is very difficult to account for every small error that might cause issues.Windows 10’s mandatory updates, which the user cannot decline to install as they could do on previous versions of Windows, is exacerbating the problem.When the KB3081424 update fails to install and the computer reboots, Windows 10 immediately attempts to install the update again, which means the process repeats ad nauseum, continually rebooting and attempting to install the update.Users who attempt to manually install the update are also faced with the same problem.Registry problemsMicrosoft has yet to suggest a fix for the looping update problem. Users within the Microsoft forums have discovered a rogue entry within the Windows Registry – a central directory that controls settings, installations and the various inner workings of the operating system – which causes the update to fail.Removing the entry appears to allow the update to install correctly, but require users to manually edit a crucial part of the operating system, which can cause major issues if done incorrectly.While a good thing for the majority of users, helping keep their computers up to date and secure, this problem highlights the dangers of a mandatory update policy. Only enterprise versions of Windows 10 can prevent updates within the operating system, while some consumers have taken to atool to help defer updates– though that’s not recommended.Microsoft did not respond to requests for comment.•Windows 10 review – final version of Windows might be Microsoft’s best ever•What Windows 10 needs to get right to avoid another Vista moment•Windows 10: Microsoft under attack over privacy
My Mother’s House is the most moving poem I’ve ever played. It’s the work of poet Victoria Bennett, inspired by her experience caring for her terminally-ill mother, and reliving some of the shared memories in her home.As I explored it, the poem brought back my recent memories of helping my own mother clear out my late grandfather’s house, remembering and sometimes learning for the first time about different aspects of his life.Related:Zombies, creepers and kids all flock to Minecraft’s block partyPlayed? Explored? Yes, My Mother’s House isn’t your average poem. It’s a “poem world” delivered as adownloadable map for video game Minecraft, which you explore while listening to – and sometimes triggering – Bennett’s reading of her work.The project was a collaboration between the poet and her partner, digital artist Adam Clarke, fresh from working together with Tate onMinecraft maps based on some of its popular artworks.It was funded bya bursary from The Literary Platform, a British firm that specialises in bringing together creators from the worlds of literature and technology – with Bennett and Clarke publishing vlogs of their creative process for other people to learn from.“For me as a poet, the idea was that somebody could explore a poem from a different angle other than just reading or hearing it: where it becomes something that can be played and experienced in different ways,” says Bennett. “Turning the poem into a physical build so that people were exploring the space.”Bennett and Clarke were awarded the grant at the start of 2015, just as her mother was diagnosed with terminal Mesothelioma – asbestos-related cancer – and the time they have spent together since was what inspired her work.“My personal narrative in my life has been about looking at our narratives of family, of past, of history, of relationships – and in the last eight months I’ve been having conversations with my mum about her life, listening to her stories and looking at objects that are important in those stories,” she says.“I tend to write about where I’m at personally, and it fitted with what we were trying to do with the project. It’s a map, it’s about exploring, so we started looking at the idea of the poem being a series of rooms.”The Italian word “stanza” translates as “room”, so it’s a fitting leap. As Bennett walked and talked in her mother’s real house, so the idea of life as a series of rooms that we can revisit – but ultimately close the doors on – was fleshed out by Clarke’s Minecraft build.Related:YouTube backs digital star Stampy's new Minecraft show Wonder QuestThat included using a relatively new feature of the game. “Minecraft has got ways of creating text that you can see in the game, so you can walk into a room and have it start to fill up with words. It’s something I’ve been doing for a while with the Tate worlds,” he says.“But one of its recent updates allowed map-makers to put their own custom sounds in too. We can actually now embed any kind of recording we like and have it be triggered as people explore the map. So as you walk into a room in My Mother’s House, you hear Victoria reading the poem.”The Tate project and My Mother’s House are part of Clarke’s longer term exploration of Minecraft as a platform for art and expression on his YouTube channel.His work ranges fromGreek mythologytoa parody of Judith Kerr’s The Tiger Who Came To Teachildren’s book with YouTube star Joseph “Stampy” Garett. Clarke also appears as the Wizard Keen character inGarrett’s recent educational show Wonder Quest.“I see Minecraft as a platform, definitely. I mean, it’s nice playing it as a game: sometimes I do that on Xbox. But on PC, to me as an artist, Minecraft is a platform: this malleable thing that we can present ideas through,” says Clarke.He also sees it as a platform for education, citing the example of an English teacher he knows who uses Minecraft with children who find reading difficult. “When they do it in Minecraft, they can tell stories quickly, and that encourages them to go into writing, and creative writing,” he says.“It’s this marriage between the two things. One of Minecraft’s major abilities for young people is that it’s really accessible and unintimidating, whereas books can come with a load of baggage that – for some children anyway – is quite off-putting.”Bennett and Clarke’s first vlog about My Mother’s House.Both Clarke and Bennett are keen to swerve the books-versus-games debate that flares up regularly, pointing to the example of their own son, who loves Minecraft but also “adores books and stories” – with the couple, like many parents, having made a point of reading to and with him every night.“Before we had books, stories weren’t about reading: it was about telling stories, and that was the important thing. Children will read: they will naturally head towards stories, if stories are not made into something that is painful and difficult and boring,” says Bennett.“All things need parental involvement, but to say ‘screen is bad, book is good’ is a bit Animal Farm, isn’t it? I can remember being told to get my head out of a book and get outside for some fresh air when I was a child! Our son absolutely adores books and stories, but he also learned to read from playing Minecraft.”Related:Three ways to use Minecraft imaginatively in the classroomBennett hopes that My Mother’s House shows the potential of games as another tool that could help parents and children open up to one another about death and grief.“Although Minecraft is most popular for children, it’s not limited to them. And, similarly, neither is grief limited to adults: children experience trauma, they experience difficult stuff,” says Bennett.“Something like Minecraft could allow people – children and adults, but maybe particularly children – to explore and talk about and take ownership of their own stories, and work with those narratives in a very non-threatening, accessible way.”Bennett adds that the most emotional part of the project was showing the finished poem-world to her mother.“It was a very moving experience to share it with my mum once it was done. Although the poem elaborates on the idea of somebody dying, she’s still alive – but we know that this is coming. It was very unusual and unique to share the experience of what it was feeling like for me and for her, in a realm that was completely alien to her,” she says.“There aren’t that many 83-year-old Minecraft players! But she said she found it really beautiful, and hoped it could help people in similar circumstances. And I was also able to share it with our son, and explore through the game that idea of his grandmother leaving – something that was very difficult otherwise to talk about and share.”
Google’s reign of terror is over! Well, not quite: the pre-eminent search engine isn’t going to go the way of AskJeeves and AltaVista,the company is simply rebranding itself with a new holding company called Alphabet, whose largest and wholly owned subsidiary will be... Google.but seriously is Google still Google or what&mdash; Elena Cresci (@elenacresci)August 10, 2015Desperately googling Alphabet? No need. Let Larry Page and Sergey Brin, Google’s co-founders, explain: “We liked Alphabet because it means a collection of letters that represent language, one of humanity’s most important inventions, and is the core of how we index with Google search.”As well as being “one of” humanity’s most important inventions, Alphabet is also a really great name for a sinister uber-corporation in a dystopian sci-fi novel, which I’m sure they considered too.One personwho is understandably delighted by the new announcement is Daniel Negari, the CEO of XYZ.com, an internet domain registry company that owns a range of suffices including .college. His latest client? The new parent company of Google, which can be found atabc.xyz. Daniel reacted with the appropriate gravitas:Boom!@xyz#GenXYZ&mdash; DanielNegari (@DanielNegari)August 10, 2015If you’re Microsoft, you can at least reassure yourself thatyou now also have a funky new URL.To give Google credit where credit is due, they did at least manage tomock the megalomaniacal nature of their own announcement, throwing in a link toHooli.xyz, clearly a reference to the Google-esque Hooli from HBO’s Silicon Valley.Google buried an awesome Easter egg deep in its Alphabet announcementhttp://t.co/JDqBkrIpl6pic.twitter.com/FIK1EjjpA6&mdash; Mashable (@mashable)August 10, 2015One must, though, spare a thought for the owner oftwitter.com/alphabet, who must have been having an interesting 24 hours.Well, that was an interesting way to end a Monday...&mdash; Chris Andrikanich (@alphabet)August 10, 2015The internet has been reacting with confusion, horror and mockery to the announcement, as you would expect. One user managed to explain the complex ownership structure of the Alphabet/Google nexus in Simpsonian terms:#Alphabetin one word.pic.twitter.com/Njj4RwSvUY&mdash; Patasho (@Patasho)August 10, 2015While another was drawn to compare it with another corporation with big plans for the future:#Alphabetis actually a subsidiary of the Weyland-Yutani Corporation.pic.twitter.com/VEozArwdfl&mdash; Diane N. Sevenay (@Diane_7A)August 10, 2015Finally, it’s worth mentioning that Google have also announced a radical shake-up to their corporate management structure, handing control of its core search engine business to Sundar Pichai, pictured below.#Alphabet&#39;s new CFO:pic.twitter.com/cmXCk8f9sL&mdash; TrivWorks (@TrivWorks)August 10, 2015
When Google announceda surprise restructuring on Monday, a very big spotlight suddenly shone on Sundar Pichai, the executive who will replace Larry Page as Google’s CEO.Pichai’s appointment is part of restructuring that will end with a “slimmed-down” company. This smaller, search-focused Google will be the largest subsidiary of a new parent company called Alphabet. With Page leaving to head Alphabet, the position of Google CEO became available.Page said Pichai was the natural choice to lead Google.Pichai “has really stepped up since October of last year, when he took on product and engineering responsibility for our internet businesses. Sergey and I have been super excited about his progress and dedication to the company,”Page saidin a blogpost.“I feel very fortunate to have someone as talented as him to run the slightly slimmed down Google and this frees up time for me to continue to scale our aspirations. I have been spending quite a bit of time with Sundar, helping him and the company in any way I can, and I will of course continue to do that.”Page went on to say that Pichai will continue to stretch boundaries and ensure that Google “can continue to make big strides on our core mission to organize the world’s information”.Colin Gillis, technology analyst at BGC Partners in New York, said Pichai’s appointment was a smart move given the current fight for talent in technology. With Twitter and others looking for new bosses, the former Android and Chrome executive is at the top of many head hunters’ lists.“My sense is he is someone in high demand,” said Gillis. Offering him the top job at Google may keep him in the fold.Pichai, 43, previously served as senior vice-president of product at Google.“Since joining Google in 2004, Sundar has led a number of key consumer products which are now used by hundreds of millions of people and, prior to his current role, served as Google’s SVP of Android, Chrome and Apps,”according to the documents filed with theSecurities and Exchange Commission. He has bachelor’s degree from Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur, a master’s degree from Stanford University, and an MBA from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.Eric Schmidt, who was executive chairman at the old Google and will now become the executive chairman of Alphabet, tweeted the announcement: “Really excited about the vision and brilliance of Sundar .. he’s going to be a great CEO!”“I would challenge you to find anyone at Google who doesn’t like Sundar or who thinks Sundar is a jerk,” Caesar Sengupta, a vice-president who has worked with Pichai for eight years,told Bloomberg last year.“If there’s anybody that could take over as CEO one day, I would see Sundar as being a great choice for doing that,” Maarten Hooft, partner at the venture capital firm Quest Venture Partnerstold Business Insider last year. Hooft and Pichai worked together for six years between 2006 and 2012. “There’s a lot of smart people [at Google], but in terms of the consumer products he’s worked on so far, I doubt they would be as successful without Sundar being there.”In addition to being well liked, Pichai has been previously described as the “most powerful man in mobile” and the “man behind Google’s most important products”.Additional reporting by Dominic Rushe
Google is dead. Long live Alphabet.Related:Meet Sundar Pichai: the man who will replace Larry Page as  CEO of GoogleThe tech company announced on Monday that it would rebrand itself as Alphabet – a new holding company whose largest wholly owned subsidiary will be Google.In a surprise blogpost made public after the stock markets closed, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, Google’s co-founders, announced a radical shake-up of the company’s corporate structure and management, handing control of its core search engine business torising star Sundar Pichai.The new company, Alphabet, will preside over a collection of companies, the largest of which will be Google. Even the site’s new address eschewed convention:https://abc.xyz/The website abc.xyz.“As Sergey [Brin, co-founder] and I wrote in the original founders letter 11 years ago, ‘Google is not a conventional company. We do not intend to become one’,” wrote Page.“As part of that, we also said that you could expect us to make ‘smaller bets in areas that might seem very speculative or even strange when compared to our current businesses’. From the start, we’ve always strived to do more, and to do important and meaningful things with the resources we have.”Related:Inside Alphabet: why Google rebranded itself and what happens nextGoogle has come under pressure as its founders have used the enormous success of its search engine to fuel riskier bets on autonomous cars, smart household devices, internet-delivering balloons and cutting-edge medical research. The major restructuring will ostensibly give investors greater insight into how the money is being spent.Colin Gillis, technology analyst at BGC Partners, said the move would allow investors to assess Google’s core business more clearly while allowing Google to highlight its other assets. “It’ll give people a truer picture of the nature and specifics of Google’s core operation,” he said.He also praised Google’s appointment of Pichai. “My sense is that here’s someone in high demand and in one fell swoop Google have kept him as a key manager,” he said.All shares of Google will automatically convert into corresponding shares of Alphabet, which will continue to trade under the stock ticker symbols GOOG and GOOGL. Shares in Google soared 5% in after hours trading. The new structure is said to be similar to Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway, which wholly owns a number of diverse holdings and has stakes in several others.Page will become Alphabet’s CEO. Brin will be its president, and Eric Schmidt will be the executive chairman of Alphabet. Ruth Porat will be its CFO, and David C Drummond will be the chief legal officer and secretary. The company’s chief business officer, Omid Kordistani, will step down and become an adviser to Alphabet and Google, according to the company’s SEC filing.Page, Brin, Schmidt and Drummond will leave Google, whereas Porat will keep her CFO role there and Pichai will take over as CEO.Some analysts were sceptical about the level of clarity the move would actually add to Google’s financial statements.“On balance the news is positive,” wrote Pivotal Research analyst Brian Wieser, “as this provides for incremental transparency into Google’s business and suggests the company is looking for ways to balance founder and employee interests with those of investors.”Wieser added a note of caution, though, saying that it wasn’t clear how much of its quarterly financial info Google was anxious to share.“It may be overly optimistic at this point to hope for discrete business unit break-outs,” he wrote, noting that major holes in investor knowledge included Google Display Networks, which Wieser estimated at $5bn by itself.It remains to be seen whether Google will simply continue to tell shareholders to be content with their profits when it comes to some major business segments.New structure under AlphabetPage characterized the Google to come as “slimmed down”. Companies that are “pretty far afield of our main Internet products” will be contained in Alphabet, he said. Google’s health efforts like Life Sciences and Calico, a division investigating aging and other diseases, will have their own chief executives. Non-Google divisions of Alphabet will also include X lab and Wing, its drone delivery effort, as well as Nest, its “internet of things” division.Google Fiber, the company’s broadband arm, will also become a new entity managed outside of Google proper, as will the company’s investing arms, such as Google Ventures and Google Capital.“Fundamentally, we believe this allows us more management scale, as we can run things independently that aren’t very related,” said Page.Related:'This is my name': businesses called Alphabet react to Google’s rebrandingThe new segments will be broken out in Alphabet’s financials in early 2016, though the holding company will be registered “later this year” according to the filing.Reactions ranged from amused bafflement to immediate speculation. “Hate saying this, but does make sense for Alphabet to buy$twtr(T is for Twitter, yeah yeah), not$goog,”tweetedMitchell Holder.Google – sorry, Alphabet – was not above poking a little fun at itself: embedded in the script on the blogpost was a link to the company website forHooli, the fictional version of Google from the Mike Judge’s HBO comedy Silicon Valley, a poison-pen letter to the tech industry that has had particularly acerbic things to say about Google.
Every year in Las Vegas, thousands of security researchers, penetration testers, and infosec experts congregate at the hacker conference Defcon to share security tips, show off newly-discovered vulnerabilities, and just generally deliver really bad news to the rest of the world.Because if you’re a researcher who’s managed to hack something that you really shouldn’t be able to hack, Defcon is the place to show it off. And this year – the 23rd in the conference’s history – was no different. Hackers showed off ways to penetrate drones, skateboards, and even brains. Sort of. But the important thing is that they haven’t yet worked out how to hack that unsettling sense of impending doom you’re feeling right now. Nope, that’s all natural.SkateboardsElectric skateboards are great fun, but thankfully they’re not (yet) a crucial part of the modern city’s transport infrastructure. Which is for the best, given that at least one brand’s skateboards can be remotely hijacked, giving the attacker complete control of the motorised board using just a bluetooth connection.The hack was discovered by Richo Healey, a security researcher for payments company Stripe, and Mike Ryan, a researcher at eBay, following an error in Healey’s board which saw it screech to a halt after interference jammed the connection between the handheld bluetooth controller and the board’s motor. The attack mimics the interference, blocking the connection between the real controller and allowing the pair to stop a board or even send it flying in reverse.Healey told Wired: “It’s easy to point to this and say, oh it’s just a skateboard, but for people who are buying these boards and commuting on them every day … there is risk obviously associated with that ... We explicitly did this research in order to make the devices safer.”DronesThe Parrot AR 2.0 Drone is one of the most popular models of recreational drones on the market. The small quadcopter can be flown manually or using GPS co-ordinates, and is outfitted with a camera on the front that beams video and still images to the user’s smartphone. All of that is done over wi-fi – which introduces the point of attack,according to security researcher Michael Robinson.Robinson’s talk, titled “Knocking my neighbour’s kid’s drone offline”, focused on the privacy reasons for wanting to take down a drone. The devices, which are largely unregulated in the US and UK, are the perfect voyeur’s tool: a mobile wireless spy-cam. And Robinson highlighted more concerning developments, too, such as police drones used to control crowds at protests, and the already infamoushandgun-dronedemonstrated in July this year.So how do you hack a drone? It’s actually fairly simple, Robinson says: disrupt the Wi-Fi, and seize control of the connection; disrupt the GPS that the drone uses to steer, and convince it that it’s in the wrong place; or induce a magnetic field to disrupt the gyroscopes it uses to stay stable. Do any of these, and the drone isn’t staying aloft for long.CarsThe big one: in July, security researchers Charlie Miller and Chris Valasek demonstrated their new hack to Wired reporter Andy Greenberg, remotely seizing control of the Jeep he was driving andcutting the accelerator on the highway. The hack was serious enough that three days later,Fiat Chrysler recalled 1.4m vehiclesand updated the software to patch the vulnerability.On Saturday, the pair demonstrated the technical details behind the hack in a talk entitled “Remote exploitation of an unaltered passenger vehicle”. It may not sound like the catchiest name, but at Defcon, there’s a sort of prestige in having a vulnerability serious enough that you don’t need to dress it up – and hacking cars definitely counts.Demonstrating how to hack a car may appear irresponsible, but it’s in line with the hacker ethos, which says that the more people know about a vulnerability, the more likely it is to get fixed, and the less likely it is to happen again. Of course, that’s too late for Chrysler,which is now facing a class-action lawsuit for their failure to protect their cars.Cars – again – and garages tooBut maybe you don’t need to remotely hack a car? Maybe you just want to steal yourself a nice pair of wheels. If that’s the case, Defcon has you covered.Researcher Samy Kamkar demonstrated the “roll-jam”, a small device which can be made for just $30 and breaks the security on wireless locks, of the sort used in cars and garage door openers.It used to be that these wireless keys used a unique security code to unlock cars, but canny thieves soon realised that all they had to do was wait around, steal the code, and then use it to unlock the car. So now, cars are unlocked with a “rolling code”: the key generates a new code every time, and the car remembers previously-used codes, ensuring that they can’t be used again.The roll-jam works by making sure that the car never hears the code in the first place: it blocks the signal, and then uses a second radio to record it itself. The car fails to open, so the user presses their keyfob a second time, and everything works as normal. They shrug it off, get in, and drive away – not realising that now, the attacker can unlock their car at will.And while the stolen code only works once, it’s small enough to secrete away somewhere, letting it steal codes time and again, ensuring it always works.Your brainWell, not quite. Thereweretalks at Defcon on hacking the human brain, with author Richard Thieme discussing the latest research in “biohacking”, but the real meat was Ryan Castellucci’s demonstration of “brainflayer” – a tool for hacking and stealing money direct from Bitcoin users’ brains.The cracker was designed to break into what’s known as a “brainwallet”, a method for generating a memorisable bitcoin wallet that lets you use and store the digital currency without ever having to write down a password. The motivation is similar to that of people who refuse to use password managers, instead choosing to memorise their passwords because their memory can’t be stolen.The problem is that the security used by bitcoin is much, much stronger than a typical password, making it all but impossible to memorise a normal 256-bit “private key”. Brainwallets theoretically make that easier, offering a repeatable method for generating that private key from a memorisable phrase. In other words, memorise the phrase “to be or not to be, that is the question”, and you could use that as your key.Unfortunately, as Castellucci demonstrated, the way the key is generated from the phrase is incredibly easy to do fast. Really fast. Like, trying–100-billion-different-phrases-a-second fast. That, combined with a strong corpus of published work, means that even the most secure passphrases could be guessed scarily quickly. It’s so good, in fact, that Castellucci accidentally stole 250 bitcoins from one hapless brainwallet user just testing the software.
It’s Tuesday. The screenshot is from space strategy gameStellarisfrom Paradox, the publisher behind historical titles Crusader Kings and Europa Universalis.
We’re told that eventually sensors will be everywhere. Not just in phones, tablets, and laptops. Not just in the wearables attached to our bodies. Not just at home or in the workplace. Sensors will be implanted in nearly everything imaginable and they will be networked, tightly connected, and looking after us 24-7-365.So, brace yourself. All the time, you’ll be be monitored and receive fine-grained, hyper-personalised services. That’s the corporate vision encapsulated by the increasingly popular phrase “internet of everything”.Techno-optimists believe the new world will be better than our current one because it will be “smarter”. They’re fond of saying that if things work according to plan, resources will be allocated more efficiently. Smart grids, for example, will reduce sizeable waste and needless consumption. And, of course, on an individual level, service providers will deliver us the goods and services that we supposedly want more readily and cheaply by capitalising on big data and automation.Keanu Reeves and Carrie-Ann Moss In The Matrix (1999): ‘The dystopian vision of The Matrix won’t be created. But even though we won’t become human batteries that literally power machines, we’ll still be fueling them as perpetual sources of data that they’re programmed to extract, analyse, share, and act upon.’Photograph: Allstar Picture LibraryWhile this may seem like a desirable field of dreams, concern has been raised aboutprivacy,security,centralised control,excessive paternalism, andlock-in business models. Fundamentally, though, there’s a more important issue to consider. In order for seamlessly integrated devices to minimise transaction costs, the leash connecting us to the internet needs to tighten. Sure, the dystopian vision of The Matrix won’t be created. But even though we won’t become human batteries that literally power machines, we’ll still be fueling them as perpetual sources of data that they’re programmed to extract, analyse, share, and act upon. What this means for us is hardly ever examined. We’d better start thinking long and hard about what it means for human beings to lose the ability – practically speaking – to go offline.Digital tethering in an engineered worldThe key issue istechno-social engineering. Techno-social engineering involves designing and using technological and social tools to construct, influence, shape, manipulate, nudge, or otherwise design human beings. While “engineering” sounds ominous, it isn’t inherently bad. Without techno-social engineering, cultures couldn’t coordinate behaviour, develop trust, or enforce justice. Since techno-social engineering is inevitable, it’s easy to get used to the forms that develop and forget that alternatives are possible and worth fighting for.Think about the world we currently live in. While we benefit immensely from the internet, we’ve become digital dependents whofeel tethered to itand regularly pay thesteep priceof constant connectivity disrupting older personal, social, and professional norms. The old advice of “go offline if you’re unhappy” rings hollow when others constantly demand our attention and not providing it conflicts with widespread expectations that being productive and responsible means being online. Amongst other things, being attached to a digital umbilical cord meansdaily lives under surveillanceand showered with laments about unachievable work-life balance, fear of missing out, distracted parents, and screens being easier to talk to than people.But the problem runs much deeper, and turns out to be more than the sum of its parts. Georgetown professor Julie Cohen gives the right diagnosis by characterising citizens as losing the “breathing room” necessary to meaningfully pursue activities that cultivate self-development – activities that are separated from observation, external judgment, expectations, scripts and plans. Without freedom to experiment, we run the risk of others exerting too much power over us.We enjoy this breathing room throughout our lives. We get it in special places, like homes and hiking trails. We cherish it in the in-between spaces, like the walk home from the train or drive to soccer practice. But none of these locations are sacred. Rather, as the invasive pings of our smartphones demonstrate, they’re always at risk.Find, gather, serve: the digital selfFor the moment, we console ourselves with limited governance strategies. We turn notices off. We leave devices behind. We taketechnology Sabbaths and digital detoxes.Smart homes of the future might follow suit. Perhaps they’ll be programmed toprotect some forms of solitudeby automating attention-killing tasks. But it’s hard to place much stock in any of this when neithertoolnor technique effectively bridges the gap between individual decisions that are deemed counter-cultural and widespread expectations about online commitments.To make matters worse, it’s difficult to imagine that new forms of pervasive monitoring won’t be invented. And if they are, folks will be told that that life gets better by using them. Take, for example,David Rose, author of Enchanted Objects: Design, Human Desire, and the Internet of Things. He pines for the day when we can stop pestering our spouses and children with questions about how they’re doing, and instead look to kitchens lined with“enchanted walls” that “display, through lines of coloured light, the trends and patterns in your loved one’s mood”. Ironically, minimising human interaction in the always-on environment with automated reports eliminates our freedom to be off.Entrepreneurial visions like this will profoundly influence the world we’re building. Writer and activist Cory Doctorowobserves: “A lot of our internet of things models proceed from the idea that a human emits a beacon and you gather as much information as you can – often in a very adversarial way – about that human, and then you make predictions about what that human wants, and then you alert them.” Concerned about the persistent public exposure that these models rely on, Doctorow identifies an alternative, a localised “device ecosystem” that would allow internet of things users to only “voluntarily” share information “for your own benefit”.Doctorow is right. We need to think about alternatives. And in principle, he’s got a fine idea. But at best, it’s a partial fix.Want an example of recent techno-social engineering? Look no further than Facebook ...Photograph: Karen Bleier/AFP/Getty ImagesThe find, gather, and serve models Doctorow justifiably critiques hide the deeper problem of pervasive techno-social engineering, and so his solution doesn’t address it. Ourwillingness to volunteerinformation, even for what we perceive to be for our own benefit, is contingent and can be engineered. Over a decade ago, Facebook aimed to shape our privacy preferences, and as we’ve seen, the company has been incredibly successful. We’ve become active participants, often for fleeting and superficial bits of attention that satiate our craving to be meaningful. And Facebook isjust the tip of the iceberg. Throughout the current online environment,consumers are pressuredto “choose” corporate services that directly manipulate them or sell their data to manipulative companies.Intense manipulation in the programmable worldManipulation is thus the other big techno-social engineering issue that needs to be confronted. The power of traditional mass media – think advertisers and news organisations – to shape culture and public opinion is widely understood. But it seems like child’s play in comparison what we’ve seen on the internet and in visions of the internet of things.For good reason, there’s already plenty of anxiety about precise and customised forms of manipulation. Marketers want to harvest our big data trail to create behaviourally-targeted advertising thatexploits cognitive biasesand gets absorbed during moments when algorithms predict we’ll experience heightened vulnerability.Communication toolsare being rolled out that perform deep data dives, create psychological profiles, and recommend exactly how we should communicate with one another to get what we want. Facebook has shown it’s ready and willing to non-transparently tweak our emotions – andco-opt us into their agenda– just so we find a product engaging. Given just how much nudging is occurring, it’s no surprise that folks are worried about the potential for elections to be determined by “digital gerrymandering”.The internet of things is envisioned to be a “programmable world” where the scale, scope, and power of these tools is amplified as we become increasingly predictable: more data about us, more data about our neighbours, and thus more ways to shape our collective beliefs, preferences, attitudes and outlooks. Alan Turing wondered if machines could be human-like, and recently that topic’s been getting alot of attention. But perhaps a more important question is areverse Turing test: can humans become machine-like and pervasively programmable.Evan Selinger is an associate professor of philosophy at Rochester Institute of Technology, where he also is the head of research communications, community and ethics at the Media, Arts, Games, Interaction and Creativity (MAGIC) Center. Twitter:@evanselinger.Brett Frischmann is a professor and co-director of the Intellectual Property and Information Law Program at Cardozo Law School. Twitter:@BrettFrischman.They are both co-authors of Being Human in the 21st Century (Cambridge University Press, 2017), a book that critically examines why there’s deep disagreement about technology eroding our humanity and offers new theoretical tools for improving how we talk about and analyze dehumanization.
Uber has pledged to improve its vetting procedures after admitting that a man arrested in Dallas on suspicion of sexually assaulting a passenger was granted approval to drive for the company by mistake.Talal Ali Chammout.Photograph: APTalal Ali Chammout was arrested on 29 July, accused of attacking a woman inside her home. Court documents show the 56-year-old was convicted of assault in California in 1995 andsentenced to 78 months in federal prisonin 2007 for weapons offences.“Our internal investigation has shown that while we have strict policies and procedures, these were not properly followed,” Uber’s Dallas general manager, Leandre Johns, wrote in a letter to a Dallas city compliance official.Johns said that it appeared Chammout applied to drive for UberBlack, the rideshare company’s limousine service, using a fake permit that meant he avoided undergoing background checks by the company or the city.He originally signed up for Uber in January 2014 not as a driver but a “partner” trying to generate business for his family’s limousine company. Even though his Uber account was marked “will not be driving”, in April this year an Uber employee gave him permission to do so.Johns said in the letter that Uber has conducted a manual review of every limousine permit provided as identification by its Dallas drivers or owners and confirmed that all of them have gone through the company’s background check process.He said that the company would implement an extra layer of scrutiny for new drivers in Dallas and increase spot-checks of identification documents. “We are determined to learn from the mistakes that were made so we can do better in the future,” the letter said. Uber has more than 10,000 drivers in Dallas, a spokesperson said.Uber operates in about 300 cities worldwide, more than half of them in the US, and background check requirements vary depending on its agreements with local authorities.The technology-centered transport company’s expansion into Texas’s major cities has not been easy amid sometimes fraught negotiations with officials about regulation andopposition from traditional taxi operators.In April the company suspended operations in San Antonio amid a political row over whether drivers should be subject to background checks including fingerprinting. It isplanning to hold meetings with officialsthis week with a view to a swift return.The company also hit trouble in Houston after it emerged that a driver accused of raping an unconscious passengerdid not have a city permit. A long-established private transport trade body, the Taxicab, Limousine and Paratransit Association, hassought to highlight alleged criminal behaviourby drivers for Uber and Lyft as part of its rivalry with the start-ups.Uber is expanding and looking to raise cash but losing money, according to areport by Bloomberg News.
Researchers from FireEye have found that data that could be used to clone a user’s fingerprint was stored as an unencrypted “world readable” image file on HTC smartphones.Four security researchers discovered that the image file, which is clear replica of a user’s fingerprint, could be stolen by rogue apps or hackers.“While some vendors claimed that they store user’s fingerprints encrypted in a system partition, they put users’ fingerprints in plaintext and in a world readable place by mistake,” the authors wrote. “On the HTC One Max X the fingerprint is saved as /data/dbgraw.bmp with a 0666 permission setting (world readable). Any unprivileged processes or apps can steal user’s fingerprints by reading this file.”The researcherspresented their findingsat the Black Hat security conference in Las Vegas. They were able to pull fingerprint images from the smartphone and see sufficient detail to tell that, for instance, the fingerprint image was a bit blurry in the bottom section and that the fingerprint sensor had reproducible characteristics.A partial example of a user’s fingerprint pulled from the HTC One Max by FireEye researchers.Photograph: FireEye“To make the situation even worse, each time the fingerprint sensor is used ... [it] will refresh that fingerprint bitmap to reflect the latest wiped finger. So the attacker can sit in the background and collect the fingerprint image of every swipe of the victim,” wrote the authors.HTC isn’t the only smartphone manufacturer doing a very poor job of securing users’ fingerprints. Most store them within secure parts of the smartphone’s processor and associated chips designed to keep user credentials safe such as the “TrustZone or Secure Enclave”, but even those have “known vulnerabilities for attackers to leverage to peek into the secret world”, according to the authors of the report.An HTC spokesperson said on Tuesday: “HTC is aware of the FireEye report on fingerprint scanner security. We have already addressed the issue for the HTC One max in all regions, and it doesn’t affect any other HTC devices. As always, HTC takes security issues very seriously and makes it a top priority.”Failing to lock down fingerprint sensorsThe authors also found that the fingerprint sensors themselves are vulnerable to attack as most manufacturers, including Samsung and HTC, do not use the built-in security features of the ARM-based chips that most smartphones use.“Most vendors fail to lock down the [fingerprint] sensor... without the proper lock down, an attacker from normal world can directly read the fingerprint sensor. Note that attackers can do this stealthily in the background and they can keep reading the fingerprints on every touch of the victim’s fingers,” wrote the authors.The poor security allows programs running on the smartphone to steal data from the sensor without having to hack into the secure layer chips, and opens the door to the remote stealing of data, should the user be unwittingly targeted by smartphone malware.Smartphones have become an increasingly important target for hackers, containing a large amount of personal data, while security vulnerabilities such asthe recent Stagefright bughave shown that users can do little to stop remote hacking.While the theft of passwords is an immediate danger, stolen biometric data such as fingerprints represents a bigger risk as they are increasingly used for proof of identity for citizen services such as boarder control. Unlike a password, a fingerprint can’t be changed.Google recently introduced support for fingerprint scanners into Android, while payment services such as Samsung Pay, Apple Pay and Android Pay, are secured by the biometric devices, meaning their proliferation is likely.While biometric data such as fingerprints offer an alternative to passwords, they must be secured to prevent identity fraud, the authors urge.•Stagefright: new Android vulnerability dubbed ‘heartbleed for mobile’
The UK’s data protection watchdog is investigating the hacking of Carphone Warehouse, which compromised the personal data and bank details of 2.4 million customers.Carphone Warehouse said names, addresses, date of birth information and bank details of2.4 million customers– and 90,000 customer credit cards – “may also have been accessed” in an attack on Wednesday.Beyond brick and mortar stores selling mobile phones, plans and accessories the company also operates OneStopPhoneShop.co.uk, e2save.com and Mobiles.co.uk, while providing services to TalkTalk Mobile, Talk Mobile and its own recently launched iD mobile networkAn Ico spokesman said: “We have been made aware of this incident at the Carphone Warehouse and are making enquiries.”Carphone Warehouse informed Ico of the breach late last week and Scotland Yard on Sunday. The police said Sunday that it has yet to receive a formal report of a criminal offence, while the National Crime Agency would not confirm whether it was to open an investigation.Carphone Warehouse, now part of Dixons Carphone following last year’s£3.7bn merger, began alerting customers via email on Saturday and took down affected websites.Around 480,000 of the 2.4 million customers affected by the breach are TalkTalk Mobile customers and 1.9m were customers of Carphone Warehouse directly.Security experts are urging customers affected by the breach to change their passwords and make sure that they are not used for other services such as email addresses or online banking.“Carphone Warehouse is said to be getting in touch with customers who need to notify their bank and credit card company, but don’t be fooled by emails or phone calls pretending to be them,” warned Tony Neate, chief executive of Government-backed web security initiative Get Safe Online. “There will always be more cyber criminals looking to exploit the situation and trick you into sharing information a legitimate company would never ask for.”An Ico spokesman added: “Any time personal data is lost there can be a risk of identity theft. There are measures you can take to guard against identity theft, for instance being vigilant around items on your credit card statements or checking your credit ratings.”•Harvest of Facebook user data prompts calls for tighter privacy settings•Seven things security experts do to keep safe online
With nearly 8.8 million subscribers and 1.8bn views for his YouTube channel, Jordan “CaptainSparklez” Maron is one of the most popular gamers on the online video service.Maron’s most popular videos are his musical parodies of songs includingColdplay’s Vida la VidaandPsy’s Gangnam Styleproduced using the Minecraft game, but his daily videos have helped him to build a fervent online fanbase.Related:Minecraft YouTube videos were watched 3.9bn times in MarchNow he’s hoping to persuade those fans to play his own game, having co-founded mobile games firm Xreal with Howard Marks, co-founder of console company Activision. Their first game,Fortress Fury, launched in May for Android and iOS devices, and has since been downloaded more than 2m times.The game involves players crafting weapons and items for their fortresses, before trying to destroy others’ in multiplayer battles online. And you can thank the 23 year-old Maron’s grandmother for its release.“Howard was playing tennis with a friend of his, who knew my grandmother, and they were talking about Minecraft, YouTube and CaptainSparklez because of a t-shirt that his son was wearing,” says Maron.“Howard ended up going home and checking out some of the videos I’d done, and got in touch through my grandmother. She said ‘some guy called me about this video game, I don’t know what this is!’ I thought some random person had got a hold of my grandma’s contact information.”The contact proved more legitimate, and led to the formation of Xreal, with its first game following in May.Fortress Fury has been downloaded 2m times so far.“We wanted to do something pretty original that hadn’t really been done before. Real-time multiplayer stuff is not super-common when it comes to mobile, and that in itself was probably our biggest hurdle in development, getting it working,” says Maron.“There was also always that bit of doubt in our minds that we could spend all this time working on the thing, then put it out there and have it completely flop. But as a first try, I figured there weren’t any expectations we had to live up to. And at the very least it would be a learning experience.”2m downloads in its first three months should provide plenty of data to learn from, although fellow freemium games Clash of Clans and Candy Crush Saga aren’t under threat just yet: at the time of writing, Fortress Fury is outside the 200 top-grossing iOS games in Maron’s native US.Related:Zombies, creepers and kids all flock to Minecraft’s block partyThat suggests an early spike in downloads fuelled by Maron’s YouTube and social popularity not yet matched by player spending – the fact that many of his fans are children may be one factor in that. Still, Xreal is in its early days.The company israising money on equity-crowdfunding site StartEngine– Marks is that company’s executive chairman – with a pitch explaining that its ambitions lie beyond simply developing games, to making them big draws in the esports market, where players compete for prizes watched by an online and/or live audience.“Hopefully mobile esports will take off. There are so many mobile devices out there now, they out-populate desktop computers,” says Maron. “You can see how big PC games like League of Legends and Dota 2 are for esports, so if you get something that catches on in mobile, the audience is potentially even larger.”The crowdfunding is one example of getting players involved in Xreal’s plans. Another was Maron’s decision topost videos on his YouTube channelduring Fortress Fury’s development, encouraging fans to give feedback.“Even before we got the studio on board, I wanted to make videos showing the development process and getting people directly involved in making decisions on the games,” he says.“The title was suggested and voted on by people on YouTube, and we also had votes on the logo and the icon art. I plan to continue that in the future: naming weapons and voting on the art for example, which seems to be a pretty cool way to get people involved.”Freemium games are dominating the mobile app stores, but they are also a controversial topic for some gamers, who dislike the way features like wait-timers, power-ups and pay-gates are implemented in some of the most popular titles.Was Maron concerned that Fortress Fury might make some of his fans, well, furious? “For any free-to-play game, no matter how you integrate the premium purchases, you’re going to get some degree of backlash,” he says.“I just wanted to make sure that it’s not a pay-to-win game, that’s where the biggest complaints come in, and I do understand those. We tried not to go down that route: especially with it being a competitive game, we have to make it a level playing field.”Related:Are freemium games focusing too much on monetisation and not enough on fun?Players can spend money in Fortress Fury for “time-savers” to speed up crafting weapons and items, but Maron says that Xreal tried to balance this by allowing fewer higher-tier weapons to be placed in a fortress, giving players who have spent less or no money (and thus who have lower-tier weapons) a shot at competing.Alongside Xreal, Maron is continuing to make videos for his YouTube channel – and alsolive-streaming on Amazon’s Twitch service, which has become one of his priorities in the last year.“So many people who I know, although they still do YouTube, Twitch has become more and more of a major thing – myself included,” he says.“It’s a cool, different way to interact with people: they can give you direct feedback in the chat in Twitch, which is something you can’t get on YouTube. It works very well for games, and it’s a little bit more casual than YouTube: you can take a break, answer questions from the chat, and mess around a little bit more.”That contrast is one reason whyYouTube is launching a dedicated section of its service for gaming, including a standalone app and an emphasis on live-streaming. Maron is keen to see whether it catches on.Maron’s Gangnam Style Minecraft parody has been watched 45m times.As with Fortress Fury, he’ll have the opinions of millions of fans to draw on. “It’s weird, definitely: I’m just some guy who plays video games, and started off broadcasting from my room in my parent’s house,” he says.“It’s a very surreal thing to have this many people enjoying your content and giving feedback. One reason it’s happened is that it’s more relatable, I guess: it’s easier for people to feel connected to an average person playing video games in their room, as opposed to big stars.“They might do cool stuff in the movies, but there’s a wall in between you and them. We’re a bit more accessible, I think.”
Still using LOL to express laughter digitally? Ha, that’s so old. According to a new study carried out by Facebook, 51% of us express our laughter on the social network with a simple “haha”.The US-widestudy, entitled The Not-So-Universal Language of Laughter, and conducted in response to aNew Yorker articleon the subject of “e-laughter”, has collated data on the way de-identified users express mirth. The results are broken down by age, gender and location.The most common form of e-laughter was found to be haha (or longer variants eg hahaha), followed by emoji and “hehe”. LOL (laugh out loud) accounted for just 1.9% of usage.Facebook data showing the expression of e-laughter by users.Photograph: FacebookYounger users and women are more likely to use an emoji when tickled; men prefer to use hehe (the writer of the New Yorker piece, Sarah Larson, speculates that this might be down to the fact it consists of the pronoun he).However, while Larson in her piece postulates that hehe is a thing “foisted upon us by youth”, Facebook’s data showed this not to be the case. While the average age of emoji users is slightly lower than fans of haha, users who chose hehe and lol tended to be older.‘Hehe’ and ‘lol’ are popular expression with older Facebook users.Photograph: FacebookRelated:The history of LOL: little old ladies are laughing out loud | LettersAnd what about those of us who like to express full-on laughs with length? Hahahhaha, for instance. Or all-caps laughs? HAHAHAHA. Then there’s laughter expressed as though one fell asleep on a keyboard.As Larson writes in her piece: “My phone has a haha autocorrect that turns a reasonably good laugh into a deranged mess – an incoherent hahhhahaahahhh”.Facebook found the average number of letters making up e-laughter is four (haha, or hehe), but six letters are also common. One user in the study, however, had written a 600-letter long hahahahahahahaha …How many ‘hahahas’ did users find sufficient?Photograph: FacebookWhile “lol”, “lolz” and “loll” are all present in the study, there is no sign of “rofl” (rolling on the floor laughing), “lmao”, (laughing my arse off) or “pmsl” (pissing myself laughing).As well as gender and age, Facebook also found e-laughter expressions varied according to location. Chicagoans are big fans of emoji, while Seattle is all about haha.Of course, it’s increasingly common to express amusement with the perfect reaction gif. And a little tip: certain variations of hahaha on Google’s g-chat will result inpop-up animations, including a dancing fox.If that doesn’t put a smile on your face, I don’t know what will.•25 years of LOL – the good and bad bits
Facebook has been urged to tighten its privacy settings after a software engineer was able to harvest data about thousands of users – simply by guessing their mobile numbers.The developer obtained the names, profile pictures and locations of users who had linked their mobile number to their Facebook account but had chosen not to make it public.Security experts said the loophole would allow hackers to build enormous databases of Facebook users for sale on internet black markets. “They should be attempting to prevent the widescale hoovering up of data, and I’m disappointed to hear that they appear to have failed on this occasion,” said Graham Cluley, a computer security analyst.Reza Moaiandin, the software engineer who discovered the flaw, exploited a little-known privacy setting allowing anyone to find a Facebook user by typing their phone number into the social network.By default, thisWho can find me?setting is set to Everyone/public – meaning anyone can find another user by their mobile number. This is the default setting even if that user had chosen to withold their mobile number from their public profile.Using a simple algorithm, Moaiandin generated tens of thousands of mobile numbers a second and then sent these numbers toFacebook’s application programming interface(API), a tool that allows developers to build apps linked to the social network. Within minutes, Facebook sent him scores of users’ profiles.All the information Moaiandin received was publicly available, but the ability to link the profiles to mobile numbers on such a large scale leaves the system open to abuse.Cluley said Facebook should make it “as difficult as possible” for third parties to scoop up even the publicly shared information belonging to Facebook’s 1.5bn users.If Facebook cares about its community, it should perhaps do more to lead them in the right directionGraham Cluley, computer security analyst“If Facebook cares about its community, it should perhaps do more to lead them in the right direction – perhaps ensuring that users have to choose whether they want to make their phone numbers publicly accessible, rather than that being a default,” he said.Moaiandin, the technical director of Leeds-based technology companySalt.agency, compared it to “walking into a bank, asking for a few thousand customers’ personal information based on their account number, and the bank telling you: ‘Here are their customer details.’”Healerted Facebook to the vulnerabilityin April through its “bug bounty” scheme and then again on 28 July, when a Facebook security engineer said it had measures to prevent suspicious behaviour. The Facebook employee added: “We do not consider it a security vulnerability, but we do have controls in place to monitor and mitigate abuse.”Facebook insists it has strict rules that limit how developers are able to use its API and that it takes action against anyone who breaks them.Moaiandin said it could take minutes to find the mobile number of a celebrity or high-profile politician if that person had connected their phone to Facebook and not selected “friends-only” under the “Who can find me?” privacy settings.The developer also urged Facebook to introduce a second layer of encryption, as Apple and Google have in place, which would have prevented him from finding the users’ information.Security researcher Brian Honan said people needed to be more aware of how much information they shared online. “The issue is a combination of social networks not gathering and retaining as much information on people as they do, and people being more aware of the risks they face when posting so much details online,” he said.A Facebook spokeswoman said: “The privacy of people who use Facebook is extremely important to us. We have industry-leading proprietary network monitoring tools constantly running in order to ensure data security and have strict rules that govern how developers are able to use our APIs to build their products. Developers are only able to access information that people have chosen to make public.“Everyone who uses Facebook has control of the information they share, this includes the information people include within their profile, and who can see this information. OurPrivacy Basics toolhas a series of helpful guides that explain how people can quickly and easily decide what information they share and who they share it with.”
