Government ministers have backed a campaign calling for under-18s to have the right to delete embarrassing and damaging material they have posted on social media that could later harm their job or education prospects.The iRights coalition has set out five rights that young people should expect online, including the ability to easily edit or delete comments or pictures they have posted on sites such as Facebook and Twitter, and to know who is holding or profiting from their information.The group’s proposals come amid growing concern over the fact that the internet permanently records a person’s past mistakes, which can damage anything from job prospects to university offers.A report published by iRights on Tuesday said: “Personal experimentation is an essential part of childhood development, yet the internet never forgets and never corrects. It can possess an infinite memory of each individual and all of their online actions.“Errors of judgment, unhappy experiences and attitudes that were the product of immaturity are saved on the internet long after they have faded from the memory of friends and family … It is essential that there is an easily accessible route for children and young people to resolve disputes or correct misinformation that does not require recourse to the courts.”The film director and crossbench peer Beeban Kidron is leading plans to adopt proposals encouraging websites to feature “delete buttons” and to introduce expiry dates for data acquired from under-18s.Her research,supported by the law firm Schillings, found that the UK has existing legislation that could, if implemented, do much more to support children online.“We have absolutely failed kids by not understanding that the digital world was as much a reality as any other experience they had,” Lady Kidron told the Guardian.“The internet is 25 years old; it was not designed with children and young people in mind. Childhood is a period of immense change, and to have an uncontextualised digital footprint is disturbing.“This campaign is about the ability and the desire to curate your present self. You may have been a punk rocker and now you’re a new romantic. Or you may have said some really stupid things about something political. You should have the right to be who you are in the present tense online just as you are in real life.”Other rights proposed in the report include protection from illegal or distressing pages; to be literate; and be able to make informed and conscious choices.“It is not a freedom of speech issue,” said Kilton, “because we’re not saying that other people can’t say what they like about you; we’re not saying that you can take down what other people post. But it must be easy, accessible and possible for a child to meaningfully take down what they themselves have put up.”Anne Longfield, the children’s commissioner for England, is launching a taskforce, Growing Up Digital, dedicated to improving the online lives of young people by adopting the proposals.The campaign’s other backers include Joanna Shields, the minister of internet safety and security and former managing director of Google in Europe, the Scottish first minister, Nicola Sturgeon, academics from Oxford University and the London School of Economics, prominent business figures, search engine Mozilla, Microsoft, Sky, Barclays, and charities including Children in Need and Unicef.Sturgeon, who recently launched a commission in order for the plans to be adopted in Scotland, said in a statement: “We believe that every child and young person has the right to grow up in a safe environment – that principle applies to the virtual world too. That is why we’re proud to support the iRights coalition and to ensure the Scottish government is doing its bit to keep children and young people safe online.”The iRights campaign follows a series of incidents where high-profile young people came under scrutiny for messages they published in their school days. Seventeen-year-oldParis Brown, who was appointed as the UK’s first youth police and crime commissioner, resigned within a week dueto messages she posted at the age of 14 about her sex life, drug-taking and drinking.Mhairi Black, the youngest MP in the House of Commons for centuries,was mocked for tweets she posted as a child, including one which read: “Maths is shite” and another that said:“Woke up beside half a can of Tennents and a full pizza and more money than I came out with. I call that a success!”Though the European Union is preparing to introduce a regulation enabling adults to demand that any images and text they posted online when they were under-18 is removed, there are currently no plans to introduce any new law in the UK.
1) It’s free!… for a bit. For some people.The company is offering a free upgrade to Windows 10 for users running Windows 7, 8 or 8.1, provided they jump on the bandwagon soon enough. After a year, they’ll have to stump up cash for the upgrade.That’s because it wants rectify the mistakes of the past, and ensure that a critical mass of users are running the latest and greatest operating system as soon as possible – and not, as in the days of Windows XP, sticking with what they know for years to come.You get a new operating system for free; and Microsoft gets another customer to whom it can sell subscriptions for the latest versions of software such as Office 365, OneDrive, and Outlook.com.2) It comes out at midnight EST/5am BST/2pm AESTBut you really don’t have to stay up. Unlike during the launch of its Windows 7 operating system, back in 2009, Microsoft isn’t encouraging fans to host launch parties:So just head to bed, wake up in the morning, and head to the Windows store to download your update.3) It’s cross-platform(ish)You can’t actually download Windows 10 for anything but conventional PCs on release day, but the company has confirmed that in time, it will come – in various forms – for phones, tablets, the Xbox games console and even its HoloLens.That means that, eventually, the Windows 10 user interface and features will be spread throughout the broad Microsoft ecosystem, ideally making it easier for users to jump between platforms as the task requires.4) The user interface adjusts itself on the fly depending on how you’re using it“Ah,” you say, “but how can the same operating system run on tablets and desktops? Won’t I be forced to click huge buttons with a mouse, or poke at tiny targets with my finger?” Not if one new feature works as advertised. Continuum detects how you’re interacting with the Windows 10 device, and changes the interface to suit.Plug in a keyboard, and get a desktop-style UI; unplug it, and watch on-screen back buttons appear to make life easier.5) It looks a bit like someone smooshed Windows Phone into the start menuThe Windows 10 desktop.Photograph: Jack Schofield6) You can run the same apps on everything, maybeThere will be Universal apps, which let developers release one app that will run on PCs, phones and potentially Xbox and Hololens as well.Microsoft hasn’t really explained how this will work, but it will probably involve packaging multiple apps in one download and letting slimline devices run the condensed version of the full-fat PC equivalent. That would be similar to how Apple treats “universal” apps which can run on iPads and iPhones.7) But you might not be able to run all your old appsBy and large, if something runs natively on Windows 7 – the oldest version for which Microsoft is offering a free upgrade – it should run on Windows 10 as well. But some apps older than that, such as those written for XP, won’t work. In Windows 7, there was the option to run those in a special “XP mode”, but that was only ever intended to be a short-term solution. If you’re really dependent on something that hasn’t been updated for a decade … it’s probably best to find some new software, because that’s only going to end badly.8) It will have MinecraftMojang – bought by Microsoft for $2.5bn in 2014 – has announced a new version of its hit game Minecraft. The catchily-titled “Minecraft: Windows 10 Edition Beta” will be free to existing players, allow eight-player co-op play over Xbox Live, and even let you build alongside Pocket Edition players once an update hits.9) IT IS VERY IMPORTANT YOU DO NOT ASK ABOUT WINDOWS 9Presumably Windows 9 disappeared to the same place as the Xboxes 2 to 359 – that strange dimension where it also makes sense that there were five versions of Windows separating Windows 3.1 from Windows 7.Do not question Microsoft’s ways.10) If you want it, just hit up Windows UpdateEveryone running Windows 7 or higher will be given the option to update tomorrow morning, and – provided you’re already running the latest version of those operating systems – the software will do the heavy lifting for you, downloading the code in the background and offering to install it.If you’ve let the earlier patches pass you buy (something you should not do), then you can either install all of them to bring your OS up to date, before installing Windows 10 over the top; or download the Windows 10 upgrade manually and create your own installation DVD using theWindows Disc Image Burner.
The problem of our laws, wrote Kafka, is that they can involve arbitrary, secretive acts on the part of elites. The law, on this view, has “brought only slight, more or less accidental benefits, and done a great deal of serious harm, since it has given the people a false sense of security towards coming events, and left them helplessly exposed”.“We live”, Kafka concluded, “on the razor’s edge”.Most would findKafka’s parable, published in 1931, a mischaracterisation of the rule of law. In democracies with a separation of powers, there are checks and balances between legislative, executive and judicial branches of government. There is transparency, rigour and reason, rather than secrecy. There is accountability and oversight.Related:Finally, the high court puts a brake on snooping on ordinary Britons | Carly NystOr so we would hope. But if ever there were a set of laws at the thin edge of the world, reeling back the swath of advances in civil rights and liberties during the century since Kafka resolved his thinking, and embodying his diagnosiswith terrifying precision, they are the laws surrounding surveillance and counter-terror in the digital age.Two decisions, one 11 days ago in Britain, and another last Thursday in France, highlight key concerns about the rule of law, cognitive dissonance around terror, the fated pursuit of a false sense of security, and the disassembledbalance of powerbetween citizens and the deep state.Rory Kinnear as Josef K in the Young Vic’s production of The Trial, Franz Kafka’s novel on the unknowability of law and the brutality of power.Photograph: Tristram Kenton for the GuardianChannel, chasm and gulfThe first story appears to contain a glimmer of hope. Two British MPs, Tom Watson and David Davis, crossed the party divide and with campaigning organisation Liberty,won a legal challengeagainst therushed, undemocraticData Retention and Investigatory Powers Act (Dripa), passed in July 2014.The High Court found thatDripa was unlawfulbecause it did not adequately ensure that access to, and use of, communications data (though not its collection) was limited to what was necessary, appropriate and proportionate for preventing and detecting serious crime.The law attracted impassioned cries about incursions on civil liberties – despite this, the French council approved itThedecision has been welcomedfor, finally,recognisingin the UK what anumber of other countriesand a slew ofindependentexaminershave demanded: proper judicial oversight of a “general retention regime on a potentially massive scale”. Where it falls down, as do many of those reports, is in accepting, implicitly or explicitly, the euphemistic re-characterisation of mass surveillance as “bulk interception” or “bulk collection”, thus endorsing an incursion into our private lives, papers, thoughts and communications that hasno precedentin the law of the land.Disappointingly, however, the Dripa victory is likely short-lived. Immediately, the Home Office declared its disagreement with the High Court’s decision, pledging to appeal. And of course, the Conservative government has already made abundantly clear its intention to enact a single, comprehensive law – the so-called “snooper’s charter” – which many fear would unleash a tidal wave of surveillance at political and executive discretion.This is where the other side of the channel comes in. Late on Thursday 23 July, inFrance’s highest constitutional body, the last safeguard of the rule of law fell, approving what is, by all measures, an intrusive, comprehensive, virtually-unchecked surveillance law.A pipe-dream for two years, the French law gathered momentum in March this year in the wake of theCharlie Hebdo attack, and was put together in the French parliament under emergency procedures, drastically reducing discussion time and preventing any meaningful debate. The law was overwhelmingly approved by parliament in June and immediately referred to the constitutional council by nearly everyone who could do so, including François Hollande – the first time the president has deferred a law voted by parliament in the Fifth Republic.Related:France approves 'Big Brother' surveillance powers despite UN concernThe case also attracted an unheard of number of amicus briefs,manyof which were made public, and most of which involved animpassioned cryabout the unprecedented incursion on civil liberties that the law mandates.And yet, despite this, the French councilapproved, with very few exceptions, a law that allows intelligence agencies to monitor phone calls and emails without prior judicial authorisation; to require internet service providers to install “black boxes” that filter all internet traffic, combing everyone’s metadata in order to identify deviant behaviours based on unknown parameters and provide access to the agencies; and to bug cars, homes and keyboards for images, sound and data.All of this, of course, is discussed as being targeted at “suspected terrorists”. But all of it, equally and more significantly, touches us all; anyone and everyone who traverses the internet. Thelaw’s goalis to improve the agencies’ tools for a large variety of vaguely stated purposes: terrorism, but also political surveillance, competitive intelligence for France’s major economic, industrial and scientific interests, the fight against organised crime, and goodness knows what else to come.The French case shows that the long-cherished secrecy of communications – a notion dating at least as far back as the French Revolution – has no constitutional priority. It shows the gripping appeal of laws that, in Kafka’s terms, provide a false sense of security and leave the people – particularly people in certain communities – helplessly exposed. On Sunday 26 July, the lawcame into effect.Effective intelligence is critical to the challenges we face. But that intelligence must be targetedThe reality is that the French and British governments have discerned that a potent combination of public fear about extremism and political appetite for tough national security measures have cleared the path for draconian overreach and surveillance of all our communications. This is enactedeven without proofthatsuch toolswillprevent the unpreventable, nor any cost-benefit analysis of all of the other ways that they leave us exposed, and society fragmented.Effective intelligence is critical to the challenges we face. But that intelligence must be targeted, and it must be subject todue process, transparency and meaningful independent oversight. Measures that inhibit all of our freedoms must be subject to open, fair, evidenced-based debate, rather than cynical emergency procedures. And even if an individual is prepared to surrender all privacy in order to accept a minute reduction in risk of a catastrophic event, what safeguards are in place to prevent even greater catastrophes, in the hands of a state, oft-captured and oft-brutal, knowing and seeing all?The tools that France and Britain are currently seeking are too blunt and intrusive for modern democracies. They stifle dissent with the same chilling turn uttered by Robespierre, one of the main leaders of the Reign of Terror during the French Revolution in condemning his former friend and close ally Danton to the guillotine for alleged counter-revolutionary activities: “anyone who trembles at this moment is guilty; for innocence never fears public surveillance”.We live, it seems, on the razor’s edge.
A major security flaw in Android lets an attacker take control of a phone simply by sending a text message – and for the vast majority of Android users, there’s no fix available yet.Even the small number of people using Google’s own line of Android phones, sold under the Nexus brand, are vulnerable to some of the effects of the bug,according to Joshua Drake, the researcher who discovered the flaw.The weakness affects a part of the Android operating system, called Stagefright, that lets phones and tablets display media content. A maliciously crafted video can be used to deliver a program which will run on the phone as soon as it is processed by Stagefright, potentially letting an attacker do anything from read and delete data to spy on the owner through their camera and microphone.Worse, Google’s messaging app Hangouts automatically pre-processes videos when they’re received to cut down the delay if the user wants to watch them straight away. That means that if the video is sent as an MMS message, it can take over the phone “before the sound that you’ve received a message has even occurred,”Drake told NPR.Even with Android’s default messaging app, all the user has to do is view the message to trigger the Stagefright vulnerability. In neither case does the user actually have to play the video in order to be the victim of the hack. But in newer versions of the Android operating system, Google says that users are protected from the worst effects of the bug.Chris Wysopal, the chief information security officer for app security specialists Veracode, called the flaw “Heartbleedfor mobile”, referring tothe widespread bugthat put hundreds of thousands of websites at risk of hacking in April 2014.Wysopal said bugs that severe “are exceedingly rare and pose a serious security issue for users”.Drake revealed details of the bug to Google in April, and provided the company with patches for the errors – in theory, enough to ensure that users are never put at risk from the bug. He negotiated a 90-day embargo before he went public, giving the company a long headway to ship a fix to users (Google’s in-house security researchers, Project Zero, apply the same 90-day warning to other vendors when they find bugs in products from companies such as Apple and Microsoft).But the coder’s revelation has also highlighted a long-standing security problem with Android, which is the speed with which fixes for software errors filter down to end users. Google, which makes the Android operating system, has no power to push patches to the vast majority of Android phones that are produced by other companies such as HTC, LG or Samsung, and those companies frequently have to negotiate with mobile network operators to send patches to the end user.On top of that, only the newest Android phones receive patches, which means that the Stagefright bug – which affects the Android operating system all the way back to 2010’s version 2.2 – may never be fixed for a huge number of phones still in use.Veracode’s Wysopal said that “it will be very interesting to see how Google responds to this. They’ll have to drive the patch quickly and in a manner that impacts every affected device at the same time. Waiting for handset manufacturers or carriers to issue a patch would be problematic since it could take a month or more before each party issues a patch.“This would leave a big window for an attacker to reverse engineer the first patch issued by whichever party to create an exploit that would impact any device. We’re likely to see Google force down a tool that addresses the vulnerability for everyone.”In a statement, Google said: “This vulnerability was identified in a laboratory setting on older Android devices, and as far as we know, no one has been affected. As soon as we were made aware of the vulnerability we took immediate action and sent a fix to our partners to protect users.“As part of a regularly scheduled security update, we plan to push further safeguards to Nexus devices starting next week. And, we’ll be releasing it in open source when the details are made public by the researcher at BlackHat.”Google rewarded Drake $1,337 for reporting the patches – although if he’d waited a couple of months, until the company launched its official bug bounty programme,he could have earned ten times that.
Amazon is launching its Prime Music streaming service in the UK, in a move that will see it aim to undercut Spotify and Apple Music.The service is bundled as a free add-on to Amazon’s Prime delivery service, which also includes books, movies and photo-storage services as “value added” extras.Prime Music comes to the UK afterlaunching in the US in June, where Amazon claims to have more users than Tidal, Deezer, Rdio, Rhapsody and Google Play combined, but not Spotify which has 60 million users worldwide. It forms part of Amazon’s attempt to cement its Prime service within people’s lives and so encourage shopping on its online store.However, the music service is not quite on a par with rivals such as Spotify and Apple Music as it gives users access to only 1m tracks. Apple’s service has 30m tracks and Spotify’s library is greater than 30m.“We’re not trying to go head to head with Spotify or Apple,” said Steve Bernstein, director of Amazon’s digital music services in Europe. “We’re trying to be the only one to offer all forms of music from discs, downloads and streaming, all in one place.”Instead of competing on a level playing field with Spotify and others, Amazon is attempting to undercut rivals. The service will automatically be available for anyone who has Amazon Prime, which costs £79 a year, and has been designed with the budget conscious in mind.“We have lots of customers for which spending £120 a year on a music subscription service is too much,” said Paul Firth head of music for Amazon UK. “The best music streaming service is the one you already have.”Prime Music will be available through smartphone apps for Android and iOS, as well as through the browser and Amazon’s Fire tablets and smartphone. Users will be able to stream tracks and playlists, download them for offline playback and keep playing them for up to 30 days without connecting to the internet.As with its US counterpart, the streaming service will be heavily reliant on playlists, but its library differs from the US, based on data gleaned from music purchases and listening habits of UK users.Users who bought MP3s or CDs through Amazon will also have access to the tracks through a “my library” section of the Amazon Music app. Personal and subscription libraries will be separated, avoiding users’ personal music libraries getting swallowed by the subscription service as is the case with Google’s and Apple’s music services.Amazon’s Prime service is growing at over 50% year-on-year, spurred by the store’s increased shipping costs. Prime Music will be another add-on for customers to justify spending £79 a year that Amazon hopes will continue Prime’s growth and lock more people into its ecosystem.•UK music streaming hits high note of 500m songs per week•Apple Music v Spotify: how do they compare?
Todd Howard says he never stops thinking about the games he makes. When one Elder Scrolls or Fallout project ends, he’s already planning the next. As VP of development at Bethesda Games Studios in Maryland, the place he has worked for over 20 years, he has a comparatively small team by today’s standards – just 100 staff. But they have produced two of the industry’s most important and ambitious open-world franchises. And they seem to do this through a ceaseless sense of purpose. “You don’t ever stop talking,” says Howard about the creative process. “You never take a break.”Fallout 4 is, of course, the latest project in that cycle. Set 200 years after the cataclysmic nuclear war that sets off the series, the role-playing odyssey gives players complete freedom to explore a devastated version of Boston, fighting with mutants, carrying out quests and collecting loot. In a preview level set before the apocalypse, you learn more about the 1950s-inspired society that pre-existed Armageddon, and get to fully customise your lead character. Then you wake up in a Vault two centuries later and – bam – everyone you know is dead.To Howard, this return to a pre-apocalyptic world was important and symbolised how he always approaches game design: by thinking about the beginnings of the whole story, not the end of the previous instalment. “We tend to look at them all,” he says. “We didn’t start at Fallout 3 and think about how to add to that. We take a step back and think, ‘okay, if we look at all the Fallout games, what would a new one feel like?’ So the focus is not ‘Fallout 3 plus this’. Then we start really digging into the world. What does it feel like? What are we going to put in it? What are wenotgoing to include?”“One of the things that’s special about Fallout is the world that existed before,” says Todd Howard. “Letting you see and experience that world, and see the moment it is destroyed, is very impactful.”Photograph: BethesdaBut the preview sequence is not just about setting up the narrative of Fallout 4. According to Howard it’s about establishing the themes of loss and self-sufficiency, and about enhancing the player’s connection with their onscreen avatar. “We all have bad things that happen in our lives, and a lot of us wonder how we can go back to before the event, whatever it is. Fallout 4 is about realising that your life has a new normal. We want to put you in the shoes of someone who knows what life was like before this.“For the other people in the world, this is all they know – it’s normal to them. But the player character is coming in with a sense of the world beforehand. That kind of emotion plays heavily in our story. Any time we can connect the character on screen with the player – any time you both feel the same way – that’s great.”So with Fallout 4, there’s this underlying idea of building a new life, starting again – and this is also accentuated through the new settlement construction element. Players are able to scavenge materials to build houses and battlements – and when these get big enough, they’ll attract other NPCs, both good (in the form of traders) and bad (greedy raiders who want your stuff). “It goes back to that sense of loss,” says Howard. “My home got blown up so I’m going to rebuild it; I’m going to make it new again. That goes to the whole theme of the game. And it’s fun.”Pete Hines, Bethesda’s VP of marketing, concurs. “In Fallout 4, you don’t go into some menu and say, ‘I want a house like this’, and then the game builds it. No, you’re putting down the floor and ceiling and deciding where the lights go and stringing in the copper wire.“It’s somewhat akin to games like Minecraft – if you give people the tools to express their creativity, they will go apeshit, and make stuff you never contemplated in a million years. You can’t change the entire world in Fallout 4, but there are a lot of spaces that you can make your own, if you want to. That’s super important.”A huge range of mutants and tribal gangs roam the Boston wilderness, but there are hundreds of weapons and modifications to fight back withPhotograph: BethesdaAnother way Bethesda’s RPG titles enhance this empathic connectivity between player and character is in the tactile physical reality of the environments. Most objects in the Skyrim and Fallout worlds are interactive, rather than painted props. But why is that important? “There’s a permanence and a tangibility to our worlds that you don’t get from other games,” says Hines. “There’s a specific thing we’re trying to accomplish with your sense of place in the world, the sense of you telling your own story. The interactivity is part of that, but it comes at a cost – there are things we don’t do because of it.”In Fallout 4 that element has been greatly expanded. Now players are able to collect and strip down dozens of seemingly benign objects to create and customise weapons. With a toy car and a lamp, for example, you’re able to add a sniper scope to a basic rifle, and there are 50 base weapons and over 700 possible modifications to discover. To enhance this, the game offers a new combat system that combines first and third-person shooting together with the RPG-style VATS system, which slows the action to a crawl, allowing the tactical selection of specific enemy body targets.“It’s a tricky balance,” says Howard of the new system. “We knew it would have to feel as good in your hands as the best first-person shooters. But we also need to get into the efficacy of damage and rates of fire, things like that. We can layer the role playing on top of that, but aiming and shooting should feel really great. Then we have VATS, and there’s where you really get to dig in. I think it appeases both sides pretty well.”Elsewhere, Howard says that Fallout 4 is set to learn from the emergent questing system used in Skyrim, which provided emergent tasks for the player. “I can’t spoil it, but we’re doing a better job than we’ve ever done,” he says. We do know there will be romantic possibilities with the game’s human helper characters, of which there are 12, including a journalist named Piper and Preston Garvey, leader of a group named the Commonwealth Minutemen.Howard won’t elaborate on how that will work, but for players who want to make more love than war, the game will meet them at least halfway. “You can avoid [killing] a lot,” he says. “I can’t tell you that you can play the whole game without violence – that’s not necessarily a goal of ours – but we want to support different play styles as much as we can.”Speaking to Howard just after the Fallout 4 announcement and its positive reception at E3, we ask about how a team of 100 people in Maryland has come to make these huge, influential games. “Well the people have been there a long time, that’s the main thing,” he says. “There’s no magic. Work together for 15 years, then it happens. It’s the same group that made Fallout 3 and Skyrim pretty much. We’ve added eight more since we made Skyrim, but that’s it.”“Oh and we do not focus test our games and never had. People ask why we don’t and I say, ‘I have so many opinions in this studio, I don’t need anymore!’ We really debate everything – and it’s a good debate. That’s why the games turn out well - it’s not me, it’s not this guy, it’s the collective. Together we figure out what we want.”Fallout 4 will be released on PC,PlayStation 4and Xbox One on 10 November 2015
In February, Airbnb chief executive Brian Cheskycomparedhis firm’s defiance of local housing ordinances with that of Gandhi’s passive resistance to British rule. Meanwhile, a tweetercomparedUber to Rosa Parks, defying unjust laws. Chesky quickly backed down after widespread mockery. Companies acting out of self-interest comparing themselves with the noble heroes of civil rights movements is as absurd as it is insulting.But there is a better analogy from the US civil rights era forlaw-flouting firmsof the on-demand economy. It’s just not the one corporate leaders claim. They are engaged in what we call “corporate nullification”, following in the footsteps of Southern governors and legislatures in the United States who declared themselves free to“nullify” federal lawon the basis of strained and opportunistic constitutional interpretation.Nullification is a wilful flouting of regulation, based on some nebulous idea of a higher good onlyscofflawscan deliver. It can be an invitation to escalate a conflict, of course, as Arkansas governorOrville Faubus did in 1957when he refused to desegregate public schools and president Eisenhowersent federal troopsto enforce the law. But when companies such as Uber, Airbnb, and Google engage in a nullification effort, it’s a libertarian-inspired attempt to establish their services as popular well before regulators can get around to confronting them. Then, when officialspush back, they can appeal to their consumer-following to push regulators to surrender.This happened just last week in New York City, when mayor Bill de Blasiomoved to limitthe number of Uber cars choking city streets during the heaviest hours of congestion. Uber pushed out advertisements voiced by celebrities including model Kate Upton and urged its wealthy users to write to city hall in protest. Mayor de Blasiostood down. Consistently, these nullifying companies claim they are striking a blow against regulations they consider “out-of-date” or “anti-innovation”. Their major innovation, however, is strategic and manipulative, and it’s meant to undermine local needs and effective governance.Between 2005 and 2010 Google shot photos of much of the world – and many of its people – without permission for its Street View project, oftenpushing the limitsof privacy laws along the way. In addition, Google hoovered up data from Wi-Fi networks that its cars passed through. To this day, Google has not explained why it captured all that private data. It worked. Despite some incidents in which Google had toreshoot the street scenesmost regulators backed down because the public had grown used to the service or Google appeased them somehow.Google’s strategy was toflip the defaults: Anyone who took issue with a shot on Street View was welcome to apply to have it removed. So it became our burden, not Google’s, to protect privacy. Google engaged in the same strategy of shoot (digital images) first and answer questions later when scanning copyrighted books. Some people got mad over these bold moves. Some people sued. Google worked through the conflicts later – sometimes bywinning in court(as in the case of book scanning) and sometimes by losing rulings in Australia, South Korea, and Japan, and Greece, where Street View was ruled illegal in 2009.Republican presidential candidate Jeb Bush, puts on his seat belt gets into an Uber car after speaking at Thumbtack, an online startup in San Francisco.Photograph: Eric Risberg/APThe analogy is most obvious in the case of an American civil rights law itself. Uber has ignored advocates for the blind, and other disabled persons, when they claim Uber’s drivers discriminate against them. In response to a lawsuit by the National Federation of the Blind, Uber bluntlyassertsthat it’s merely a communication platform, not the type of employer meant to be covered by the Americans with Disabilities Act. Some judges and regulators accept that reasoning; others reject it. But the larger lesson is clear: Uber’s aggressive efforts to avoid or evade disability laws are nothing less than a form of corporate nullification, as menacing to the rule of law as defiance of civil rights laws in the days after courts ruled against racial segregation in the US.In addition, Uber has confronted admittedly stifling restrictions on taxi driver licenses in France by launching a service called UberPop. Several authorities in Europe haveruled UberPop illegal, but Uber kept it operating anyway as it appealed. Now France haschargedUber’s general director for France, Thibaud Simphal, and the company’s director for Western Europe, Pierre-Dimitri Gore-Coty with enabling taxi-driving by non-professional drivers and “deceptive commercial practices”.One could make a strong argument that France would benefit from more taxi drivers and more competition. But that’s for the people of France to decide through their elected representatives. The spirit of Silicon Valley should not dictate policy for the rest of the world. New York, Paris, London, Cairo, and New Delhi all have different values andtraffic issues. Local needs should be respected.Consider what it would mean for such a universalising approach to prevail. The business model of Uber would become that of law-flouting bosses generally. Reincorporate as a “platform”, intermediate customer requests and work demands with an app, andvoila!, far fewer laws to comply with. Worse, this rebel attitude signals to the larger culture that laws and regulations are quaint and archaic, and therefore hindrances to progress. That could undermine faith in republican government itself.In the 1950s and 60s, Southern governors thought they’d found asimilar tacticto avoid the civil rights laws that they most despised. Though the strategy failed, the idea still animates reactionaries. Former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee, now running for president, has evensuggestedthat the US supreme court’s recent gay marriage decision should effectively be nullified by sovereign states.Of course, a republic can’t run without authorities who follow the rule of law. Civil disobedience by citizens can be an important challenge to corrupt or immoral politicians, but when corporate leaders themselves start breaking the law in their own narrow interests, societal order breaks down. Polishing their left-libertarian veneer, the on-demand economy firms now flouting basicemploymentandanti-discrimination lawswould like us to believe that they follow in the footsteps of Gandhi’spassive resistance, rather than segregationists’massive resistance. But their wealthy, powerful, nearly-all-white-and-male cast of chief executives come far closer toembodying, rather than fighting, “the man”.As Silicon Valley guru Peter Thiel has demonstrated, the goal of tech firms is not to compete – it is to somonopolise a sectorthat they basically become synonymous with it. Uber’s and Airbnb’sself-reinforcingconquests of markets attract more venture capital (VC) investment, which in turn enables more conquests, which in turn attracts more VC money. As that concentration of economic power continues apace, it’s more vital than ever to dispute Silicon Valley oligarchs’ self-aggrandising assertions that they follow in the footsteps of civil rights heroes.As allegedly “innovative” firms increasingly influence our economy and culture, they must be held accountable for the power they exercise. Otherwise, corporate nullification will further entrench a two-tier system of justice, where individuals and small firms abide by one set of laws, and mega-firms create their own regime of privilege for themselves and power over others.Frank Pasquale is a professor at the University of Maryland School of Law and the author of Black Box Society: The Secret Algorithms that Control Money and Information (Harvard University Press, 2015).Siva Vaidhyanathan is a professor of media studies at the University of Virginia and the author of The Googlization of Everything – and Why We Should Worry (University of California Press, 2011).
A group of MPs have called for an investigation into a far-right website described as a training manual for anti-Muslim paramilitaries, amid fears that an upcoming exhibition of cartoons of the prophet Muhammad in London is designed to incite Islamist violence.The Gates of Vienna website has been heavily promoting the exhibition, which is understood to feature the same drawings shown in Texas in May when two gunmenattempted to storm the eventand were killed by police.It has been organised by the former Ukip parliamentary candidate Anne-Marie Waters and is set to take place at a location in central London on 18 September with tickets priced at £35. Organisers say among those attending will be Geert Wilders, the Dutch rightwing politician who has espoused controversial views on Islam.In a reporton the so-called British counter-jihadist movement, published on Monday, the anti-fascist group Hope Not Hate called for the exhibition to be banned.Nick Lowles, Hope Not Hate’s chief executive, said: “Our concern is that the event is intended to provoke a reaction from British Muslims. It is not about freedom of speech, it is about incitement. The authorities cannot allow this event to go ahead. Communities shouldn’t rise to their bait, we must stand together as a show of strength.”Lowles also said he had serious concerns about material published on the Gates of Vienna website. The site – the name of which refers to a 1683 battle between European forces and the Ottoman empire – contains detailed descriptions of how anti-Muslim paramilitary groups could operate during a conflict with European Muslims.One entry is a fictionalised account of a predicted race war, described as “a hard look at the near future in Britain”, with a section entitled “A guide to amateur bomb-making”. Waters is a contributor to the site and has written a lengthy post about the London exhibition.Lowles said he believed the site was hosted on British servers. “If a Muslim had a similar website, which includes bomb manuals and details about assassinations and establishing paramilitary groups, then you can be sure action would be taken,” he added.The Labour MPs Ian Austin, Ruth Smeeth, Imran Hussain, Paula Sherriff, Wes Streeting and John Cryer have written to the director of public prosecutions, Alison Saunders, asking her to consider if the site’s owners are breaching the law.The letter reads: “It is clear that these are the ideas that inspired Norwegian mass murderer Anders Breivik and as such it is deeply troubling that they are available to inspire others. We would urge you to investigate the Gates of Vienna website and take appropriate action if anyone involved is deemed to be promoting terrorism and civil disorder.”Austin told the Guardian he would also be raising the issue with Theresa May. “I am shocked that the Gates of Vienna website can publish articles promoting a strategy for civil war,” he said. “At a time when we should all be concerned about terrorism it is imperative that the police investigate this website and those behind the calls for civil war and I’ll be raising this with the home secretary.”He added that the exhibition of Muhammad cartoons was “clearly [intended] to provoke a reaction from British Muslims and we must all ensure this does not happen”.Wilders was also present at the exhibition of the cartoons in Texas, which was run by the anti-IslamAmerican Freedom Defense Initiativeand hosted by the group’s co-founder, Pamela Geller, a US blogger and speaker who is banned from entering the UK over her anti-Muslim views.Vive Charlie, an online magazine set up after the attacks by Islamist extremists on the offices of the satirical publication Charlie Hebdo in Paris, is co-hosting the exhibition along with Waters’ website Sharia Watch and the fringe far-right party Liberty GB. The magazine, which has no connection to the French title, is calling for artwork submissions.Waters said in a statement on Sharia Watch: “It is vital, in this era of censorship and fear, that we stand together in defiance and demand our right to free expression … We will not, and cannot, succumb to violent threats. The outlook for our democracy depends on the actions we take today.”A spokesman for the Metropolitan police said an appropriate policing plan would be put in place for the event but would not comment further.
Internet activists determined to halt what they see as another ill-conceived Washington cybersecurity bill are hitting Congress where it hurts: right in the fax machine.Protesters have programmed eight separate phone lines to convert emails sent from a handy box atFaxBigBrother.com(as well as tweets with the hashtag #faxbigbrother) to individual faxes and send them to all 100 members of the US Senate.The rationale, said Evan Greer of activist group Fight for the Future, is that Congress doesn’t appear to understand technology invented in the current century.Related:A government surveillance bill by any other name is just as dangerous | Trevor Timm“Groups like Fight for the Future have sent millions of emails, and they still don’t seem to get it,” said Greer. “Maybe they don’t get it because they’re stuck in 1984, and we figured we’d use some 80s technology to try to get our point across.” All 100 members of Congress will receive each of the faxes.The deluge of badly printed screenshots is in protest of the the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act (CISA), sponsored by California Democrat Dianne Feinstein, which proposes cooperation between government agencies and private tech companies and gives the latter broad latitude to collect as much data as possible from users in the name of cybersecurity and then share it with specific federal agencies, who in turn have latitude to share it with all federal agencies.Findings shared by companies who work with the government will be specifically exempt from the Freedom of Information Act (Foia) and all other attempts by the public to learn exactly what pieces of their data are being collected, scaled and leafed through. Fans of the bill include Facebook, Google, AT&amp;T, Comcast, Bank of America and Blue Cross Blue Shield.The bill, stalled last year, has been recently resuscitated and will likely be considered next week before Congress adjourns for the summer on 7 August.Do US senators really use their fax machines that often, though? “Yes, sadly,” one former Senate staffer told the Guardian. They love their pagers as well. Faxes “all get digitized by the time they get to the office, though”, which bodes ill for senatorial email inboxes.And why is 1979’s hottest tech trend still so popular on Capitol Hill? “One thing that makes faxes – and pagers, for that matter – still good tech is that they are analog and difficult to search. Members love them, especially to transmit data for things like campaign financing records.”It is, in other words, a great way for American elected officials to obey the letter of the law when it comes to campaign disclosures and Foia requests without exposing themselves to the kinds of invasive data-crunching to which the general public will be prey, should CISA pass. “No one wants to read” the transmissions, the ex-staffer said. “Readers get lost in them, but there is still a record of info being sent and received.”But there’s still pressure on Congress to act on cybersecurity worries, especially after therecent hack of the Office of Personnel Management(to say nothing of the security problems at Target, Sony and a dozen other high-profile companies).Matt Comyns, global cybersecurity practice leader with executive search firm Russell Reynolds, said there were great risks from simply letting the current arc of cybercrime take its course. “We are living in a new world and need to adjust our thinking and behavior,” he said. “The obvious risk to CISA and more regulation from the government is the abuse of privacy. However, the government seems to have decided that is the potential cost of creating a more secure environment for companies and US citizens.”Greer had a different take. “With all these breaches,” she said, “there’s a lot of fearmongering going on in DC. They just say: ‘This is a problem – we’ve got to do something!’ And this is the something they’re going to do. It’s not just that this won’t fix things – it’ll make them worse. And it’ll give sweeping legal immunity to some of the largest companies in the world and open us all up to new forms of surveillance.”
My father, Richard Calder, who has died aged 78, was an engineer who lived and worked all over the world and who had a special love for Brazil.He was born in Surrey but brought up in New Zealand, where his father, Malcolm, was an air vice-marshal and later chief of the New Zealand Air Staff. With his mother, Peggy (nee Mandeno), and his sister Susan, the young Richard travelled around the UK, Malaya and South East Asia visiting his father, who was stationed in various parts of the world. At Wanganui Collegiate boarding school in New Zealand, Richard’s passions were flying, fishing and aeroplanes, and he desperately wanted to join the air force. But bad eyesight precluded him from doing that, and instead he graduated with a degree in mechanical and aeronautical engineering from Canterbury University, New Zealand.He married Elisabeth Baber, a publisher, in 1959, and they moved to Britain, where Richard became an aeronautical engineer with Rolls-Royce in Derby. The company posted him to Canada in 1962, where they endured the worst winter for 35 years; to San Francisco in 1963, where they saw Dizzy Gillespie and Count Basie play; to Washington DC, where they watched the funeral procession of John Kennedy on Arlington Bridge, and finally, in 1964, to Brazil where Dad immediately fell in love with everything he found there, especially the music, the dancing and the heat. He and my mother came back to the UK four years later, and were divorced in 1973.Dad then met and married Margot Knowles, a speech therapist. He was by now working in the fledgling computer software business, and they went to Brazil for a couple of years before finally settling in the US in 1977. They lived in a beautiful part of Connecticut, acquiring a lovely old house, a disorderly collection of sheep, chickens, dogs and cats, and a barn full of stuff to fix.On his retirement, Dad kept busy by tutoring distance learning MBA students at Durham University and Charter Oak College, Connecticut and, with Margot, founded BRAYCE, a charity dedicated to offering youngsters from Brazilian favelas educational and leadership opportunities in the US and American students internships on social programmes in the favelas.He is survived by Margot, by his children, myself and Toby from his first marriage and Caitlin and Fenna from his second, by five grandchildren, Jack, Milo, Tilly, Arthur and Nicolas, and by Susan.
How many old mobile phones and tablets are languishing in your home? A quick inventory of my drawers, where gadgets go to die, reveals a stash bigger thanLas Vegas’s neon boneyard.There are five phones, a couple of them smart and stored inexplicably in their original boxes (a state of affairs that makes me look like a serious collector, but is really an example of senseless hoarding). There’s also an Asus tablet that looks, under closer inspection, to be an extremely small Etch A Sketch. It’s a shameful walk down technology lane, although it’s surprising how nostalgic you can get when confronted by your partner’s oldSony Ericsson K850. It also prompts some existential questioning, namely: why the hell am I still using a cracked, two-year-old Samsung Galaxy S3 when I could be posturing ironically with aNokia 2730?British householders are estimated to have around £1bn-worth of unused electronic equipment lurking in their lofts, drawers and cupboards. Now, we can offload some of it to the high street whence it came. Argos, in partnership with thewaste-prevention charity Wrap, has becomethe first big UK retailer to offer an on-the-spot trade-in service in all 788 of its stores. It’s not the first company to recycle products – I know because I had a first-generation iPod reconditioned at Glasgow’s Apple store in 2008 – but it’s the first time a high-street store has moved from what Gerrard Fisher, Wrap’s special adviser, calls “a one-way sales model” to “buying products back from the customer”.Take in your unwanted gadgetry – it’s phones and tablets only for now, but potentially laptops, cameras and satnavs in future – and you’ll be offered an instant quote on its trade-in value. Your gadgets are then checked, wiped, refurbished and sold on or recycled for parts. In return, you get a gift voucher to spend in store, so you can buy another gadget … and put it in your drawer … and repeat until death. It’s calledthe circular economy, apparently.And so to Argos to find out what my years of stockpiling are worth:Apple iPhone 3G (16GB): 90pApple iPhone 5 (16GB): £45Asus Eee PC 2G Surf: £22.50HTC One: £45Nokia 2730: 90pSony Ericsson K850: £0 (recycle only)Total: £114.30Result! OK, the only device that actually belongs to me is the Nokia (the rest, technically, is my partner’s property, including the worthless Sony Ericsson – ha!) and the amount we originally paid was probably 10 times the trade-in value. Still, it’s a win-win in terms of making a few quid, having a clear out, recycling and helping the circular economy to keep, erm, circulating. A cursory flick through the Argos catalogue leads me to a Sony smartwatch for £114.95. Seeing as I’ve got plenty of space in my drawers now, I may as well go for it.
PC gaming platform Steam has fixed a bug that allowed anyone to steal a user account by being armed with nothing more than the account’s username.The bug affected Steam’s password recovery process for four days, from 21–25 July, and was excruciatingly simple: an attacker could try to log-in to someone else’s Steam account, and ask for a password recovery email to be sent out.Steam would then send the recovery email to the registered address, before asking for the code contained within the email. But if the attacker hit “enter” without typing in any code they were granted access to the account.In a statement given to gaming website Kotaku, Valve, the company which runs Steam, confirmed that what it called a “bug” had affected the company’s security for four days. “The bug has now been fixed,” it said.The company added: “To protect users, we are resetting passwords on accounts with suspicious password changes during that period or may have otherwise been affected. Relevant users will receive an email with a new password. Once that email is received, it is recommended that users login to their account via the Steam client and set a new password.”“We apologise for the inconvenience”A number of prominent gamers had their accounts stolen over the weekend, apparently due to the hack, including Dota 2 pro Artour “Arteezy” Babaev:Steam also got hacked lolz&mdash; Artour (@Arteezy)July 25, 2015Users who had signed up for Steam Guard, the platform’s branded two-factor authentication service, were protected, however.
Twitter has begun to honour takedown requests from users complaining their jokes have been lifted wholesale and shared by others, passing them off as their own.Certain tweets have begun to be replaced with copyright notices and a message saying “tweet withheld”. The blocked tweets offer users the chance to “learn more” via a link to Twitter’spolicy on DMCAtakedown notices.An example of a tweet reported for copyright infringement now appears.Photograph: TwitterA statement on Twitter’s policy page asserts:Twitter will respond to reports of alleged copyright infringement, such as allegations concerning the unauthorized use of a copyrighted image as a profile photo, header photo, or background, allegations concerning the unauthorized use of a copyrighted video or image uploaded through our media hosting services, or Tweets containing links to allegedly infringing materials.Users who are subject to DMCA takedown notices have 10 days in which to appeal, according to Twitter. TheDigital Millennium Copyright Act(DMCA) is a US legislation targeting the avoidance of digital rights management that protects copyrighted work.In the US, the law is assessed on a centralfour tenetswhich comprise fair use: the purpose and character of use, the nature of the copyrighted work, the amount and substantiality of the portion taken, and the effect of the use on the potential market.Twitter says that it will make a “good faith effort” to contact those whose content is removed under copyright claims, and the claims will be passed on toChillingEffects.com, a database of online removal requests.??? Are ppl using DMCA takedown notices when their Twitter joke gets stolen?https://t.co/8scLYzKrf3ht@AbdulAzimpic.twitter.com/AC9eWnKcgs&mdash; kadhim (@kadhimshubber)July 25, 2015It appears Twitter’s policy of removing tweets that have been reported for copyright infringement is a new development in the past few days. The social network has always had rules around copyright, but these appear to be the first instances of users being referred to as “original authors” and “copyright holders”, as well as the removal of tweets for this reason.The Vergewebsite reported that one freelance writer, Olga Lexell, had tweeted about the DMCA takedown request she filed after the content of her tweet was taken without credit.I simply explained to Twitter that as a freelance writer I make my living writing jokes (and I use some of my tweets to test out jokes in my other writing). I then explained that as such, the jokes are my intellectual property, and that the users in question did not have my permission to repost them without giving me credit.Plenty of Twitter accounts, with thousands of followers, many similar to each other, comprise solely of lifted jokes and media. Some accounts have even joined together to form businesses, and the owners aremaking a lot of money.Tweet theft and content appropriated without credit has been happening since the dawn of the social network. In 2013, a minister from South Carolina, Sammy Rhodes, who became famous for his witty tweets, was found to belifting them from famous comedians. Even comedians themselves, including British star Keith Chegwin, have beenfound to have copied.Other comedians, such asStewart LeeandEd Byrne,have commented on the issue.Twitter now honors DMCA takedown requests for stolen jokes. asked for comment, 7000 Condescending Willy Wonka accounts had nothing to say&mdash; Dave Ditell sucks!! (@davedittell)July 25, 2015Reaction to Twitter’s new policy from users has been mixed, many responding with jokes. Whether they are all original, however, remains to be seen.Twitter has not replied to requests for comment.•Instagram, an artist and the $100,000 selfies – appropriation in the digital age
So there’s going to be afilm based on emoji. Of course there is, there’s a film based on everything these days. ¯\_(ツ)_/¯. But the emoji film is going to have a tricky time getting the meanings of emoji right. It’s often the case that the symbols’ officialUnicode Consortiumtitles do not relate to how we use them every day.The truth is, emoji can mean a vast array of things. Here are some examples of the kinds of ways the following emoji could be used; not necessarily how their creators intended. We’ve mixed in emoji as they appear on both Apple and Android products.Official name: Smirking faceProbably one of the most popular emoji, the smirking face is perhaps closest to its intended purpose when used in day-to-day conversation. One-upmanship, nonchalant boasting, or sly good fortune. Examples:I got 89% on the test. The class nerd got 86%That person I was flirting with in the bar when you left? Yeah, about that …Cashier accidentally gave me too much changeOfficial name: pensive faceThe “pensive face” does not look at all pensive, but instead is shorthand for quiet despair. It’s the signifier for the little defeats of modern life. Examples:There’s a total weirdo sitting next to me on the bus, even though there are other free seats. Also, he smellsWoke up to realise I had texted the ex at 3am while drunkAccidentally hearted someone’s Instagram photo from 2013Official name: Nail polishOne of the greatest of emoji, if notthegreatest. The emoji of true sass. This emoji either conveys a complete indifference, the embodiment ofidgafattitude, the equivalent of theBut That’s None of My Businessmeme, or just absolute queenliness. Examples:Ok, getting abused on Twitter, but I don’t careDid a 10-mile run, smashed my personal bestLiterally in response to anything Beyoncé doesOfficial name: New moon with faceIt’s a moon. Ostensibly a kind of friendly moon. But not according to the public. In popular parlance, this emoji is called “the creepy moon emoji” – although one entry on urban dictionary refers to it as the “molester moon”.It’s also used in situations of social awkwardness. And it’s been known to bemorphed with celebrity faces. Perhaps the best ever use, however, was the creepy moon reinvented as thewrecking ballin Miley Cyrus’ video. Examples:Didn’t mean to brush your foot with mine under the table tbqhWhat are you doing later? Because *creepy moon emoji*Accidentally walked into the wrong gender toilets, did a quick 180i like being mysteriouspic.twitter.com/rdPbuLg2oP&mdash; Moon Emoji (@MoonEmojii)March 21, 2014Official name: Speak-no-evil monkeyThe speak-no-evil monkey – proper name Iwazaru–is one of the “three wise monkeys” in Japanese culture. Iwazaru’s nickname comes from the proverb: “see no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil”.Of course, speak no evil isn’t really how most of us use this monkey emoji. More than not, it’s to express a visual “oops” at a minor faux-pas, or cheeky recognition that we’ve done something a bit naughty or stupid.I just fell over on the street in front of many people. Texting you this in an attempt to style it outIt was too soon in this relationship to accidentally let out a small fartI called my boss “mum”, and this will never go awayOfficial name: Person with folded hands“Person with folded hands” doesn’t actually make much sense, so it’s no surprise that this emoji has adopted different meanings.There are two kinds of people in this world: those who use the folded hands emoji to represent prayer, and those who use it to give a high five. Most people come down on the side of prayer hands. But, as rapper Drake, who hasthe symbol tattooedon his arm, points out: this debate will run and run.Champagnepapi (Drake) discusses his “person with folded hands tattoo” onInstagram.Photograph: Instagram&quot;If you thought the prayer hands emoji was two people high fiving you the worst kind of person&quot;&mdash; andy xo (@andizzzle)April 8, 2015Official name: face with medical maskThis emoji is pretty clear, if the medical mask wasn’t a give away, the bead of cold sweat points to this little yellow blob being sickly, but its general use isn’t as black and white as that. Examples:Really did not want to see that YouTube video you sent me. Honestly, it was disgustingAbsolutely not ok with the gross sext some random just sent me on TinderI think Imaybehooked up with [insert name of entirely dodgy person]Official name: runnerHe’s not exactly dressed for proper exercise, which is just as well, because that’s not how runner is used. Examples:I’m 20 minutes late, I know, but I promise I’m on my way and I’m really sorry, please don’t hate meHere is what you should do in respect of your awful boyfriend/girlfriend who you argue with all of the time and text me about all of the timeWhat’s that? A marathon of The Good Wife? I’m thereOfficial name: Hundred points symbolThe hundred points symbol is tucked away with all of the boring emoji: random shapes, utility symbols, boring arrows, but this emoji has really broken away from the pack to become one of the most used. It’s meant as show of agreement, or appreciation. Examples:You’re on fire. Such strong gameI’m in total agreementGo for it. You definitely shouldLet us know in the comments below what feelings and situations you wish to convey when using certain emoji
Cybersecurity experts aren’t like you or I, and now we have the evidence to prove it.Researchers at Google interviewedmore than 200 experts to find out what security practices they actually carry out online, and then spoke to almost 300 non-experts to find out how they differ.Perhaps unsurprisingly, the security experts practice what they preach – or, at least, they tell Google they do. They’re more likely to use two-factor authentication, to install software updates, and avoid visiting shady websites. Even for practices that are subject to healthy debate within the security community, actions speak louder than words: the experts are more likely to run anti-virus software and to use password managers than non-experts.So what do the experts do? And, perhaps more importantly, what are the modern-day superstitions we can all stop doing to save time?1) Yes, you do want to install updates“Update all the software and firmware to fix any possible vulnerability.” “Patch, patch, patch.” The experts are clear: never turn down a security update. The researchers found that not only was installing updates the most commonly cited practice that experts do to keep safe online, it was also the largest difference between experts and non-experts: 35% of the former mentioned it, while only 2% of the latter. And a further 2% of experts also mentioned turning on automatic updates as one of the top three things they do, something no non-expert mentioned.Non-experts, however, were worried that the updates could themselves lead to an infection: “Automatic software updates are not safe in my opinion, since it can be abused to update malicious content,” said one. And they were also worried that the updates would lead to new problems, with one saying that “there are often bugs in these updates initially”.Software updates are usually the only way to combat actual security vulnerabilities – those bugs in software that let malicious attackers do things they shouldn’t. For instance, the recentAdobe flashvulnerabilitiesopened a user’s computer up to hacking if they continued using the software: until patches were issued, there was little option but to simply stop using Flash to stay safe online.2) Use antivirus software – but don’t bank on itAntivirus packages have a bad rap. For years, the software had a reputation for slowing down computers with added cruft, foisting pricy support packages on desperate users, and not really doing much to actually protect the computers in the first place. But despite all that, a majority of experts said they use the software.However, antivirus software was vastly more favoured by non-experts than experts, and barely 60% of the experts actually used it. Users in the know said that “AV is simple to use, but less effective than installing updates,” and that the software “is good at detecting everyday/common malware. But nothing that’s slightly sophisticated”. In contrast, 70% of non-experts thought the advice to use AV software was likely to be “very effective”, and more than 80% of them had it installed.So, while you shouldn’t uninstall your AV software, don’t get lulled into a false sense of security about it. Oh, and like everything else, always install the updates.3) Keep your passwords uniquePassword security online is frequently summed up as “strong, unique passwords” – but it turns out one part of that might be more important than the other. Non-experts tend to focus on the strong part, with 30% of them picking that as one of their top three tips against 18% of the experts; conversely, 25% of the experts pick “unique”, against 15% of the normal users.It’s easy to see why. Using a strong password (that is, one that uses a good mixture of case, letters, numbers and symbols, as well as steering clear of dictionary words) requires a one-off feat of memory, and can feel very much like the sort of security procedure one should carry out, while avoiding password reuse is an ongoing hassle, requiring a new password for every site.But in practice, most people are unlikely to face a brute-force attempt to break into their account by simply guessing their password, and even if they do, it doesn’t take much to render such an attack unsuccessful. But most peoplearelikely to be the user of at least one service which gets hacked, asAdobe,PlaystationandAshley Madisonusers have all learned to their disadvantage. Having a unique password can prevent that misfortune compounding.4) Use a password managerHow do you remember all those unique passwords? Password managers, such as1Password,LastpassandKeepasssolve that problem. They are used by more than three times as many experts than non-experts, and experts are four times more likely to name them as one of the most important things they do online. The researchers cite one expert as saying that “’password managers change the whole calculus, because they make it possible to have both strong and unique passwords”.Yet only 18% of non-experts thought the advice to use a password manager was “very effective”, and some even explicitly said they don’t trust them. Their reasoning is that password managers can be hacked, and that if other software has bugs and flaws, who can guarantee the same problems won’t apply to managers? In those worries, the users are backed-up by a team from Microsoft,who reported in 2014that users should rely on easily-memorised passwords rather than managers.But the security experts are clear: despite their concerns, using password managers is better than not. In fact, some of them even recommend writing the most valuable passwords down on paper. As one says, “malware can’t read a piece of paper”. But the number of experts actually writing down passwords was still lower than the number of non-experts.As a rule of thumb, if you can remember all your passwords, you’re doing it wrong. Over half the non-experts claimed to remember every password, while just 17% of the experts said the same.5) Use two-factor authenticationPerhaps because of companies such as Google or Twitter being increasingly pushy about trying to encourage users to switch to two-factor authentication (2FA) – where a password is backed up by a code linked to a specific mobile phone – almost two-thirds of non-experts say they use the security system on their accounts. Those rates still lag behind the experts, but the high numbers suggest that the message is getting through.At the same time, the non-experts over-state the benefit of 2FA, especially when compared to the less flashy practice of using a password manager. More than four in five non-experts said they thought it was effective, compared to just 32% for password managers.6) Visit secure websites, even if you don’t recognise themNon-experts tend to claim that they keep safe by only visiting websites they already know about: “Visiting websites you’ve heard of doesn’t mean they are completely safe, but there is a higher chance of this,” explains one. But they might be exaggerating slightly: while 21% of non-experts said that not visiting unknown websites was an important safety practice, only 7% of them claimed to never visit unknown websites.Even though 32% of experts said they “rarely” visit unknown websites, the more important piece of advice – and the one where the experts differed from the non-experts – was to check for HTTPS, the secure connection protocol, when visiting an untrusted website. In fact, it was the third most mentioned security practice amongst experts.7) Do as I say, not as I doBut not everything security experts do is something to be followed. Despite recommending that users not click links on emails from unknown sources – a way to avoid phishing emails as well as targeted malware – the researchers themselves admit to doing so. “I do all the time,” one said, laughing, “but I tell my mother not to.” Another admitted that the advice is given more for simplicity’s sake than because it’s the best thing to do: “I never really found a way of giving more precise advice for people who are not technical on what is really safe and what is not.”
Over 1,000 high-profile artificial intelligence experts and leading researchers have signed an open letter warning of a “military artificial intelligence arms race” and calling for a ban on “offensive autonomous weapons”.The letter, presented at the International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence in Buenos Aires, Argentina, was signed by Tesla’s Elon Musk, Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak, Google DeepMind chief executive Demis Hassabis and professor Stephen Hawking along with 1,000 AI and robotics researchers.The letter states: “AI technology has reached a point where the deployment of [autonomous weapons] is – practically if not legally – feasible within years, not decades, and the stakes are high: autonomous weapons have been described as the third revolution in warfare, after gunpowder and nuclear arms.”The authors argue that AI can be used to make the battlefield a safer place for military personnel, but that offensive weapons that operate on their own would lower the threshold of going to battle and result in greater loss of human life.Should one military power start developing systems capable of selecting targets and operating autonomously without direct human control, it would start an arms race similar to the one for the atom bomb, the authors argue.Unlike nuclear weapons, however, AI requires no specific hard-to-create materials and will be difficult to monitor.“The endpoint of this technological trajectory is obvious: autonomous weapons will become the Kalashnikovs of tomorrow. The key question for humanity today is whether to start a global AI arms race or to prevent it from starting,” said the authors.Toby Walsh, professor of AI at the University of New South Wales said: “We need to make a decision today that will shape our future and determine whether we follow a path of good. We support the call by a number of different humanitarian organisations for a UN ban on offensive autonomous weapons, similar to the recent ban on blinding lasers.”Musk and Hawking have warned that AI is“our biggest existential threat”and that the development of full AI could“spell the end of the human race”. But others, including Wozniak have recently changed their minds on AI, with the Apple co-founder saying that robots would be good for humans, making them like the“family pet and taken care of all the time”.At a UN conference in Geneva in April discussing the future of weaponry, including so-called “killer robots”,the UK opposed a banon the development of autonomous weapons, despite calls from various pressure groups, including the Campaign to Stop Killer Robots.•The Guardian view on robots as weapons: the human factor•DeepMind: ‘Artificial intelligence is a tool that humans can control and direct’
Pakistan has banned BlackBerry’s enterprise server and its internet and messaging services “for security reasons” in a crackdown on privacy.Mobile phone operators were told by the Pakistan telecommunication authority on Friday that the BlackBerry services must be shut down by the start of December.BlackBerry uses strong encryption – part of its appeal to businesses and users – which prevents law enforcement and intelligence agencies from intercepting messages and snooping on user activity.“PTA has issued directions to local mobile phone operators to close BlackBerry Enterprise Services from Nov. 30 on security reasons,” said a PTA spokesperson.BlackBerry operates servers through which all internet traffic destined for its smartphones and tablets flows. The servers handle email, messaging, browsing and other communications services, encrypting the data and ensuring greater privacy.A recent report by Privacy International claims Pakistan’s military intelligence agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), is seeking to dramatically expand its ability to intercept communications.Privacy International said the ISI had few legal checks on its surveillance practices.“Pakistan’s intelligence agencies have abused their communications surveillance powers, including by spying on opposition politicians and supreme court judges. Widespread internet monitoring and censorship has also been used to target journalists, lawyers and activists,” the report said.BlackBerry has faced similar problems in the past in India, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Saudi Arabia and Indonesia.In 2010, BlackBerry services were banned withinthe UAEand Saudi Arabia. Bans werelifted in some statesbut with tightened restrictions. Prime minister David Cameron also consideredbanning BlackBerry’s messaging serviceswithin the UK during the 2011 riots.BlackBerry said: “BlackBerry provides the world’s most secure communications platform to government, military and enterprise customers. Protecting that security is paramount to our mission. While we recognise the need to cooperate with lawful government investigative requests of criminal activity, we have never permitted wholesale access to our BES servers.”•BlackBerry left on the line as UK users continue to hang up•BlackBerry Classic review: the phone diehards have been waiting for
Thrust, thrust, thrust. Bang, bang, bang. I’ve been listening to this for the past four evenings. Two people sweating and panting in the room above, in a hotel too close to a busy road, which serves spaghetti that is cold as it hits the plate.I’m sharing a twin room with my mother – hoping to God she isn’t hearing this too. But I know she is, because in the darkness the shape of the room changes when she sits up in bed.I have never wanted to die more. I text my friend: “I have never wanted to die more.”The people fucking above me are ruining any chance I have of looking mother in the eye again.The horrific scene played out in a text to my friend.Photograph: Hannah Jane ParkinsonI go to the bathroom, as if that could make what’s about to happen any more comfortable. The woman I’m sleeping with and I start attempting to sext. But it’s difficult because the Wi-Fi keeps cutting out, and then I have to sign in all over again, using a password that is a long string of numbers, like a PGP key, which I save in my phone after the cleaner over-zealously binned the piece of paper with it written on.Autocorrect keeps changing 'clit' to 'clot'Autocorrect keeps changing “clit” to “clot”. At one point, near to the edge, my sister texts, and I also get a delayed notification fromOxford Mailabout traffic in Woodstock.I don’t think of myself as a sexter. It’s not something I think is a sell, particularly:25, GSOH, keen sexter. I don’t have areolas that strain to get free in the periphery of a lens. I had a little phase of mutuallySnapchattingnude selfies with a woman I used to date, except hers came from a Mexican beach and mine from a one-bed flat in Kentish Town.She didn’t realise I was notified every time she took a screenshot of my Snapchats, which was always. When she did realise, she texted me, mortified.Kids these days are all about sexting, all about porn on phones. It’s disturbing that aquarter of kids have viewed porn by the age of 12. This world promotes a skewed, commercial perspective of sex that contains none of the dead legs, none of the – I’m sorry, I’m gonna use the wordqueefing– nothing about ingrown hairs or penises that curve. When I was younger, the boys in my class would talk about catching snippets ofEurotrash. I basically learned it was OK to wank because ofKim Cattrall in Sex and the City.There are not too many naked selfies in my camera roll then. One of the worst experiences I have had with tech, apart from the time I lost 30,000 words of the “novel” I was writing (it was for the best), was when the friend of someone I was involved with stumbled across photographs of us on my phone. It happened on a hot day, during a picnic . I can imagine her cupping her hands to shield the sun’s glare and being horrified.As for parents, they used to hide knives and keys and alcohol from their kids – now they hide phones using a lock time of longer than five minutes.I’m not good at this stuff. It worries me. I used to work with a woman who had her phone stolen, and the thieves uploaded nude pictures of her to herFacebookaccount. Her boss, her friends, her parents all saw them. Look at what happened to Jennifer Lawrence, whodidn’tupload naked photos of herself to the internet, but had herApple iCloud account hacked. Then there’s the whole sordid, morally decrepit business ofrevenge porn.The next night I consider sending a picture to the woman I’m sleeping with, but I can’t decide on a filter. Amaro? Too bright. Hefe? Makes my sunburn look worse. X-Pro II? Resembles an outtake from some kind of straight-to-DVD sci-fi porn flick.I’m pretty suredagouerrotypesweren’t as difficult. Saucy letters written in quill ink and spritzed with perfume were a safer bet. Pretty surePrince Charles’s tampon commentput everybody off phone sex for life, back in the days when landlines were a thing.Things were simpler, back in the day of daguerrotypes.Photograph: Bruno Braquehais/Creative CommonsI don’t even know how people in long-distance relationships cope. Encrypted chat apps?Skype? (A journalist friend, who shall remain nameless but remains a hero, once conducted an interview via Skype, and in the middle of it, bored and scoopless, slipped her vibrator out of her bedroom drawer and went to town).I’m glad I don’t have to think about it. About the camera angles, or the appropriate punctuation, or whether a safe word translates via iMessage. Give me the real thing. Take the phone off the hook and give me the thrusting and the panting and the banging. Just not when my mother’s in the bed next to me. Dear God, not then.Are you a fan of sexting? Is it just a part of a healthy relationship in 2015? Leave your comments below.
It’s Monday!
Godzilla: The Game(PS4, PS3, Bandai Namco, cert: 12, out now)Godzilla’s genre-defining impact on cinema is undeniable. Sadly, the same can’t be said for his interactive appearances – he’s rarely done well in gaming form, a tradition that continues here.Godzilla: The Gamecertainly makes an effort. A single-player God of Destruction campaign is bolstered with the King of Kaiju mode (clobber six beasts in a row), online battles and a monster-customising evolution mode. Unfortunately, core gameplay is so dreadful you’ll not want to explore much.Starting as Godzilla, with other playable kaiju unlockable, you’ll stomp around small maps that would look dated on the PS2, destroying buildings or crushing tanks while targeting “G-Energy” generators. Movement is ponderous, not in a way that conveys power and awe, but rather instills boredom and frustration. Occasionally another monster appears for a ruck, but simplistic, glacially-paced attacks turn what should be thrilling encounters into lumbering blow by blows, with enough dust kicked up to totally obscure the already unimpressive visuals. The best part ofGodzillais its sound design. Each kaiju’s roars are pitch perfect and good use is made of Akira Ifukube’s wonderfully apocalyptic score. Scant praise though – the king of monsters deserves better.MKRory McIlroy PGA Tour: ‘still a work in progress’.Photograph: PRRory McIlroy PGA Tour(Xbox One, PS4, EA, cert: 13)EA’sPGA Tourreturns after a two-year absence with a new cover star, next-generation visuals and tiered swing mechanics. Sensibly, it’s the stick-meets-ball interactions that have had most attention. Dropping any sign of motion control, choices include stick-flicking Arcade-style ease, a staccato, three-click Classic swing and a timing-crucial Tour swing. Each offers three accessible routes into the game. A novel Nightclub mode provides an unexpected high point, with 170 golfing mini-games that offer over-powered clubs, turbo shots, tacky balls and portals. These are each diverting fun in their own right but also develop skills useful back in the main game.The lack of the Augusta National course is disappointing, only partially compensated by the enhanced visuals, but the thrill of growing your own PGA pro remains, along with an albeit limited choice of challenges and online modes. It’s a satisfactory return forPGA Tour, but still a work in progress. Certainly on this basis, Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 owners won’t be rushing to upgrade their hardware.ARDeception IV - The Nightmare Princess: ‘a delightfully twisted experience’.Photograph: PRDeception IV: The Nightmare Princess(PS4, PS3, PS Vita, Koei Tecmo, cert: 16)Sadism can be fun – at least when combined with strategy, puzzle, RPG and action gameplay to create a delightfully twisted new experience.Expanding on 2014’sDeception IV: Blood Ties,Nightmare Princessdelivers two campaign modes focusing on Velgyrie and Laegrinna, the daughters of the devil. Each stage presents the task of arranging an array of macabre traps and luring do-gooders into their path, their every humiliating death bringing you closer to restoring the supreme evil.Scoring is based on the brutality of each chapter, incentivising you to come up with increasingly elaborate ways to dispatch foes. Each victory unlocks more items for a cruel arsenal, allowing the creation of your own maps and the ability to share them online for a huge degree of replayability. There’s a grim satisfaction in cracking the “code” of each level and seeing victims flail through torturous Rube Goldberg machines. Although timing the traps can be frustrating – get it wrong and a planned chain is useless – players will rarely have such a good time being bad.MKStar ratings (out of five): Godzilla **, Rory McIlroy PGA Tour ***, Deception IV ****
Price: £8,499MPG: 70Top speed: 85mphSomething strange is happening in scooter land. They can’t decide how many wheels they need. For decades, it was two,évidemment! But then some sprouted an extra wheel at the front. Now some of these three-wheelers have grown another wheel, this time at the back. Pedants will be thinking: “Four wheels. Engine. Seat. Brakes. Isn’t that a car?” In fact, it’s aQuadro: the world’s first four-wheeled scooter. In a pub-quiz twist of nomenclature, it is also the world’s first four-wheel tricycle – the two back wheels are so close together they are classed as a single unit.Why would you want a scooter with four wheels? In a word: grip! Masses of it. Four wheels on the tarmac gives you twice the adhesion. The problem has always been that with four wheels you can’t lean over properly and thus can’t corner at speed. You end up driving around as if you’re on a lawnmower. The Swiss-designed Quadro has a Hydraulic Tilt System (HTS) which allows all four wheels to tilt simultaneously. As you lean into bends, or bounce over speed bumps and pot holes, each wheel stays planted on the road. I even rode sideways down a wide flight of steps and felt as composed as an old man dozing on aStannah stairlift.If you’ve ridden a bike at speed, you’ll know you can lean so far into corners you almost graze your knee. The bizarre thing about the Quadro is that you can tilt it right over even at very low speeds – it’ll lean up to 45 degrees at crawling speeds. You’ll fall off it well before it falls over.It takes a while to get used riding. I found myself forgetting to both leanandturn at the same time, but within an hour or so I was slaloming through traffic like a pro. You can use it in bus lanes, so the city suddenly becomes a lot smaller. It has a meaty 350cc 4-stroke engine and once you are on the move it’s nimble and responsive. It’s a twist and go with no gears to change. At slow speeds it felt heavy, especially when trying to manoeuvre it out of the garage. But then I read it is only 257kg, which is light for a motorbike. Maybe it’s just in comparison to my usual office commute – a bicycle that weighs 10kg.With its aggressive hornet-like design, the Quadro looks like a jet ski that’s been kitted out for the road. Sit on its large seat and its sturdy body feels immediately comfortable. The step-through frame and flat platform for your feet mean you can hop on and off easily. You don’t have to worry about wrecking your clothes. Ride it in your suit or office skirt and high heels if you like. When you get to work, stick your helmet in the handy locker on the back and walk straight from the scooter to your desk.You don’t need to take a bike test to ride it, your driver’s licence covers it, and legally you don’t actually need to wear a helmet (you’d be mad not to).At £8,000 it’s double the price of a regular scooter. But you get double the wheels and double the chance of surviving your commute. A bargain, I’d have thought.For more information, go toquadrovehicles.comElvis is in the building: win tickets to see Presley’s pink Cadillac at the O2 in LondonThe King’s Pink Caddie.Elvis’s pink Cadillac has arrived at the O2 and we have five pairs of tickets to give away. One of the world’s most iconic cars, the King’s Pink Cadillac is on display atElvis at The O2, having been shipped over from Graceland especially.Bought by Elvis on 7 July 1955, the car was originally blue with a black roof, but he had the body painted pink to replace his first pink Cadillac, which was destroyed after the brake lining caught fire and set the car alight while Elvis was driving back from a gig on 5 June 1955.With over 300 artefacts from the Graceland archives, the exhibition includes other automobiles, personal items, historical documents, stage costumes, guitars, photography and gold and platinum records.To win one of the five pairs of tickets, send an email with your name and address tomartin.love@observer.co.uk. The first five to arrive will be the winners.The exhibition runs until 10 January 2016, from 10am to 8.30pm, seven days a week. For more details and to buy tickets, go toelvisattheo2.comTerms and conditions available on request.Blue Bird celebrates 90thanniversary recordPendine Sands came alive last weekend as hundreds of spectators watched a commemorative run of the iconic 350hp Sunbeam, on the 90th anniversary of Sir Malcolm Campbell’s World Land Speed Record of 150mph.TheNational Motor Museum, Beaulieu, marked the anniversary with a demonstration run in the restored Sunbeam with Sir Malcolm’s grandson Don Wales at the wheel.Don Wales and the Beaulieu team also recreated two iconic pictures from the original run.Sir Malcolm with Blue Bird just before setting his world speed record.Don Wales stands in his grandfather’s footsteps next to the famous car.Don, who is also a Land Speed Record holder, said: “I was thrilled to be given this amazing opportunity to sit at the wheel of my grandfather’s car back at Pendine where he set his record. It was an honour both to follow in his footsteps and to drive this iconic car on such a special occasion.The Sunbeam, renamed Blue Bird by Campbell, holds three World Land Speed Records, the first achieved by Kenelm Lee Guinness at Brooklands in 1922 with a speed of 133.75mph. Campbell then purchased the car, had it painted in his distinctive colour scheme and in September 1924 achieved a new record speed of 146.16mph at Pendine, raising it the following year to 150.76mph.Campbell then sold the Sunbeam and it passed through a number of owners and was in a poor condition when purchased by Lord Montagu in 1957, for his ever expanding motor museum.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
For Sebastian, life is destined to be lonely. The short pedestrian will, for now, be the sole resident of a small city located near the University of Michigan’s north campus. He’ll pass time by stepping into oncoming traffic – while others watch on, never warning of an impending crash.But Sebastian won’t feel pain: he’s a robot, created by students of the university’s engineering school to assist researchers at MCity, a 32-acre environment that opened this week as a safe zone for testing driverless vehicles.The “city” attempts to replicate situations motorists face every day.A downtown facade with a cafe and bookshop has been painted along Liberty Street. Buildings here are easily moved to create several obstructed views during tests. Actual road signs used in south-eastern Michigan were donated for use at the facility.Occasionally, the city will be deserted – like a 21st-century ghost town. But there’s a logical explanation for the acute attention to detail, said Peter Sweatman, head of the university’s Transportation Research Institute. The environment of MCity will allow researchers to prove autonomous vehicles can perform efficiently in a dense, urban setting, he said.“MCity is all about accelerating the process of getting connected and automated mobility out on the public roads … and we’ve designed it specifically so we can learn very fast, and then get systems deployed,” Sweatman told the Guardian in an interview.Main Street, MCity: nobody’s home.Photograph: Ryan Felton for the GuardianThere are 11 signalized intersections, a railroad crossing, a tunnel, and a short freeway with on- and off-ramps. The town’s main corridors feature fire hydrants, parking meters and speed limit signs. Vehicles will eventually register the posted speeds and adjust accordingly, said Jim Sayer, a research scientist at the institute.Same goes for Sebastian: the intent is to avoid hitting him. (Sebastian wasn’t out on Thursday for a public open house; he “took a tumble” the other day, said Sayer.)Officials say the $10m project has created a real-world space where technologies behind autonomous vehicles can be perfected – unlike public roadways, with their inconsistencies.“If a pedestrian crosses the street, it’s really difficult to get them to go back and do that again and again,” Sayer said.The city was developed by the university in conjunction with the Michigan department of transportation, which contributed $3m of the investment. More than a dozen companies affiliated with the university’s Mobility Transformation Center – the so-called “Leadership Circle”, including Ford, General Motors and Verizon – contributed $1m over three years. An additional 30 affiliate sponsors contributed $150,000 over three years. Any sponsors who contributed to the investment can use the site for a minimum of four hours at a time.Companies will be able to rehash scenarios as many times as needed. For example, if teams want a dog to dart out in front of a vehicle, a mechatronic animal may be created for research – perhaps Sebastian’s pet.Automakers believe autonomous driving is the way of the future, and it’s a prospect they say may come to fruition within five years. A study from the Boston Consulting Group says partially autonomous vehicles will “hit the road in large numbers” by 2017. By 2035, more than 12m fully autonomous vehicles may be sold, the group said.Beyond the ability to eat, read or take a quick nap, officials say the technology should improve vehicle safety, potentially eliminating 80% of fatal crashes, according to a study from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. More than 30,000 people died in vehicle crashes in 2013, the NHTSA has said.Members of the public tour MCity on an open day. Sebastian the luckless robotic pedestrian was unavailable.Photograph: Ryan Felton for the GuardianThat’s why officials view MCity as a “transformational moment to, at long last, making a decisive change to the current 33,000 fatalities that we have on our roads every year,” Sweatman said.The objective isn’t to keep automated vehicles in MCity forever. Once the kinks are worked out, they’ll move to the streets of Ann Arbor. Sweatman said he expects 20,000-30,000 so-called “connected cars” that communicate with one another – such as with a light to notify when a vehicle or object is too close – will be travelling the region within six to eight years. Officials expect 20-30 fully autonomous vehicles to be on local roads in that timeframe.“We have that tremendous potential to quickly go from off the roadway at MCity to on the roadway environment of Ann Arbor itself,” Sweatman said.The public was invited on Thursday afternoon to stroll the city’s streets. Marge Stuebben, 78, moseyed about the town with her husband Ron. She said automation would suit her needs just fine.“As a senior citizen, I’m excited because one day I’m not going to be able to drive,” she said.That point was echoed by Kristina Kayser-Weiner, 68, a former nursing student at the university.“I see this as a real potential,” she said. “As people get older and lose some independence, to think you can go to a doctor’s appointment, or whatever, with having transportation that you can initiate yourself.”
‘Why are we not doing more to have coding colleges and technical, vocational education alongside university education?” This question, raised by Labour’s Yvette Cooper during an interview with theObserverin May, reflects a wide concern about the availability and equality of software training, an area with a reputation for being elusive, exclusive, expensive and overwhelmingly male.Calls to improve the state of digital education in the UK have become commonplace, with new coding initiatives appearing all the time. The international Hour of Code claims to have givenmillions of Britonsa taste of programming, while the government declared 2014 the officialYear of Code”. Female programmers can joinGirls who Code’ orLadies who Code’ programmes; the BBC recently launched itsMake it Digital’ campaign; and even the online grocer Ocado has thrown its hat in the ring with a scheme calledCode for Life’. But while the national curriculum now includes programming for children as young as five, there is still a dearth of affordable, vocational options in higher education, despite a rocketing number of well-rewarded jobs for software developers. A budding programmer can try to learn their trade online, tackling one of the hundreds of coding tutorials, or they can stump up the hefty tuition fees for one of the many private coding academies that have sprung up in the past decade.Related:Supermodels join drive for women to embrace codingOr, if they’re very lucky, they might be able to secure a place at a tiny, grassroots school with no funding and hardly any staff, housed in a cramped, concrete room in an east London backstreet. This isFounders &amp; Coders, the first full-time adult programming school in the UK to offer its services completely free of charge.Dan Sofer founded F&amp;C almost by chance. Having worked for years as a developer on numerous major websites, including theGuardian’s in the late 90s, he found himself at a loose end and began enrolling in Moocs (massive open online courses) to sharpen his coding skills. Finding the solitary learning experience uninspiring, he began arranging casual meet-ups with fellow students, and these quickly snowballed into a series of popular workshops, from matrix algebra to game theory.In 2014, Sofer was offered temporary funding and premises in Camden, north London, during which time he honed his teaching strategy. “Each time we did it, it became more ambitious,” he says, and by November he had perfected his own syllabus: an intense eight-week crash course teaching absolute beginners to become competent front and back-end web developers, capable of designing and building a website from scratch in JavaScript. When the funding dried up, Sofer and his students raised £10,000 on Indiegogo and flew the nest to their humble home in Bethnal Green.F&amp;C’s London rivals – Makers Academy, for instance, or General Assembly – charge up to £9,000 for equivalent courses, and can afford large numbers of staff. Sofer, however, has made a virtue of his school’s slender means. Students must provide their own laptops, and each group of 16 is divided into four, with each person assigned a particular role. “Software development is a team-based activity,” says Sofer, who rejects the stereotype of the hermetic solo programmer. By encouraging discussion and group activity, and minimising the students’ dependence on senior programmers, he believes they are forced to learn more quickly and intuitively. “We don’t have many resources, but it’s a happy coincidence that this is also a great learning environment,” he says. “Having people around you who know everything is not always motivating.”Web developer Naomi Gaynor. The diversity of F&amp;C’s recruits is challenging the traditionally male demographic.Photograph: Antonio OlmosThere remains the question of how to run a school with no fees and no funding – a question that Sofer addresses with a mixture of optimism and blind faith. Indeed, there is something cultish about the atmosphere at F&amp;C, not least because the school’s future is predicated upon its adherents’ loyalty to the cause. “We demand much more [than a regular coding academy], but we’re offering a lot more,” explains Sofer. “Everybody here feels fortunate and wants to give something back.” This means that once their time on the course is over, students are encouraged to “move upstairs” to join F&amp;C’s co-operative of freelance, trainee developers. In this capacity they mentor new students, which consolidates their own learning. “You kind of go through the course twice, first as a student, and secondly as a mentor,” says Sofer. “You learn by teaching.”Nevertheless, a skeleton of professional support is provided by a small pool of senior mentors; experienced programmers who offer expertise on a pro bono basis. “As far as I know [F&amp;C] is completely unique,” says Robin Houston, a mentor at the school and founder of the data visualisation firm Kiln. “Most of the other schools are commercial operations; there’s a lot of money to be made charging people to learn to code.”Houston recognises that the current situation for would-be programmers is flawed. “Most good people I’ve worked with are self-taught, because there’s a paucity of formal channels,” he says. “It’s odd that people who want to program often end up studying computer science, when it’s tangential to what they want to do. I respect and understand computer science, but it’s not programming, and the people teaching it aren’t programming experts; they’re computer scientists.”A lot of students come in with no experience at all. It’s inspiring to see them get the bit between their teethRobin HoustonThis inadequate infrastructure contributes, in Houston’s opinion, to a worryingly monocultural landscape. “Because of the lack of straightforward channels into the industry, it ends up being dominated by people like me who spent their childhoods playing with the ZX Spectrum.” This demographic, he recognises, is largely male, and he is further impressed by the diversity of F&amp;C’s recruits and their swift progress. “A lot of them come in with no previous experience at all. It’s impressive and inspiring to see them get the bit between their teeth.”Once there is a full crop of graduate coders in the school’s upper room, Sofer hopes F&amp;C can attract outside clients, so he can put his freelancers to work on commercial projects. This business model is still finding its feet, but some former students are already sharing a trickle of paid work.One such novice developer is Natalia Baltazar, who took the course last autumn. Unable to afford paid training, she read about F&amp;C in an “obscure online publication” and six months later was enrolled. Baltazar compares the learning experience to solving a vast but satisfying puzzle, with numerous tiny pieces to be fitted in place. “It’s daunting, but you end up loving that,” she says, adding that she struggled more with the school’s social ethos. “During the first weeks, I would show off and say ‘Look, I learned this first.’” After a gentle pep-talk from a mentor, Baltazar came to realise “that’s not what this place is about. It’s about making sure that when you rise up you bring everyone else with you.”Sofer is visibly proud of the environment he sees growing around him. “It’s brutally meritocratic,” he warns, “but the bar is high not in ability but in commitment, enthusiasm, curiosity.” The image of the thrusting tech-wunderkind, hungry for startup-stardom, is dispensed with here. “It’s not ‘come to our school and you’ll be rich’,” he grins. “It’s ‘come to our school and we’ll guarantee pauperism as long as you stay here’.” The student body doesn’t seem to mind. Each group is coding a blogging platform from scratch, which has to be finished by the end of the week. Five years from now, who knows what they’ll be building?Natalia Baltazar, who took the F&amp;C course last autumn. ‘It’s daunting, but you end up loving that,’ she says.Photograph: Antonio OlmosDeveloping world: pioneers in programming42, ParisIn some ways, 42 resembles F&amp;C. It has few teachers and is centred on small groups of peers learning together. Unlike F&amp;C’s inauspicious quarters, however, 42 is housed in a 4,000-square metre premises in northern Paris, and enrols nearly 1,000 students a year for its demanding three‑year course. It can afford to do so thanks to founder Xavier Niel, a wealthy media and telecoms magnate. Niel has poured millions of euros into the school since its foundation in 2013 in the hope of bolstering the future of the French software industry.42 is less a response to expensive coding schools and more an indictment of the French higher education system, which Niel feels has failed to provide sufficient opportunities for budding software developers.The Recurse Center, New Yorkhe Recurse Center is a full-time “retreat for programmers”, which invites applicants from all over the world for its three-month courses. While absolute beginners are not accepted, co-founder Nicholas Bergson-Shilcock says the centre welcomes “everything from high-school dropouts to computer science PhDs”. Having a variety of experienced and inexperienced students is part of Recurse’s strength, he says, as it facilitates discussion and community learning. The centre encourages further diversity by providing living expenses of up to $7,000 to female, Latino and African‑American students.It manages to do this by making recruitment agreements with tech companies; if Tumblr, for instance, hires an alumnus, they pay a sum to the Recurse Center. The organisation currently has about 60 such agreements, so the model seems to be holding up. “Demand for good programmers is incredibly strong,” says Bergson-Shilcock, “and getting stronger.”Ada Developers Academy, SeattleIn 2013 independent research suggested that on average only 12.3% of programmers at US tech companies were women. That year, Elise Worthy co-founded Ada Developers Academy, a free school in Seattle devoted to closing the yawning gender gap. “In the US there’s a large push to increase gender diversity in the tech community,” she says, and Ada has exploited this by inviting tech companies in the Seattle area to sponsor students through the one-year coding programme, with a view to subsequently hiring them. Companies including Microsoft and Amazon have signed up and, according to Worthy, their involvement is more than mere tokenism. “Diverse teams function better,” says Worthy. “It makes good moral sense, but it also makes good business sense.”The course is aimed at complete newcomers to coding, but applicants needn’t be green young graduates; more than half of the students so far have been amateur developers hoping to change career. This unusually relaxed and inclusive template is in tune with Ada’s unusual ethos: the company makes no profit, Worthy insists the atmosphere is not competitive, and she has no interest in Ada becoming a “giant school”. Nevertheless, she admits it has already had an effect on the Seattle tech industry. “We’ve put 40 women into that mix,” says Worthy, “so we’re changing the demographic.”KB
Computer experts have long warned about a catastrophic cyber-attack in the US, a sort of Web 3.0 version of 9/11 that would wreak enormous damage throughout the country. Like most Americans, I shrugged. With all of the enormous resources the country enjoys, those warnings seemed like the rantings of a digital Chicken Little.Oddly enough, the revelations of the National Security Agency whistleblowerEdward Snowdengave me some false comfort. If the powerful NSA was so good at hacking its own citizens, then surely the agency could prevent criminals, terrorists and foreign enemies from doing the same?And then there’s Silicon Valley, which I frequently write about. Surely the uber-geeks who run the world’s greatest innovation cluster could code something to smite the evildoers? Well, on behalf on the US, I admit I was terribly wrong. We are so screwed.I came to this conclusion recently, over a span of seven days. Earlier this month I attended a preview of retail giant Target’s new “Internet of Things” showroom in downtown San Francisco. The company had constructed a mock house intended to show how “smart devices” connected to the internet could seamlessly work together to automate the 21st-century digital home. A car alarm wakes up the baby sleeping in the nursery. A sensor detects the baby’s cries, alerts the parents and automatically triggers the stereo to play soothing music.It was all very impressive, but I couldn’t help notice an irony: the retailerthat in 2013 was subject to a hack that comprised the credit-card data of 100 million consumersnow wanted people to entrust their entire homes to the internet. “It’s been a long time coming, but we are just getting started,” a Target executive said.One week later I found myself at a dinner in a fancy hotel to discuss cybersecurity with the executives of top Silicon Valley firms. Unlike the festive Target event, the mood was decidedly grim. Actually it was downright alarming.Forget about theSonyandAshley Madisonhacks. Those cyberthefts may cost companies some money and embarrassment, but that’s not what the execs were nervous about. Even the successful breach of Chrysler’s in-car systems, which allowedhackers to take control of a Jeep on the highwayand prompted the recall of 1.4 million vehicles, is a mere appetiser compared with what’s coming down the road.By 2020 the US will be hit with an earthquake of a cyber-attack that will cripple banks, stock exchanges, power plants and communications, an executive from Hewlett-Packard predicted. Companies are nowhere near prepared for it. Neither are the Feds. And yet, instead of mobilising a national defence, we want a toaster that communicates with the washing machine over the internet.In many ways the Target event and the dinner demonstrate a kind of collective cognitive dissonance about technology. We’ll eagerly pursue innovations like the internet of things and electronic health records even as we’re increasingly aware of how vulnerable such technology makes us to terrorists and criminals. In fact, the reference to earthquakes was fitting. Scientists have long predicted the “Big One” – a massive earthquake in Seattle or San Francisco that will kill lots of people and cause trillions of dollars of damage. Yet people still build houses and buildings on what is essentially the most dangerous land in the country.What struck me about the dinner, attended by executives from Hewlett-Packard, software company Cloudera and PayPal, along with academics and investors, was the naked pessimism in the room. Nobody even tried to put a happy face on the situation. “A slow-moving train wreck,” one executive said. Forget about coordinating with each other or the Feds: companies don’t even know how to deal with their own hacks, never mind worry about someone else’s. A whopping 57% of chief executives have not been trained on what to do after a data breach, according to a report by HP. And more than 70% of executives think their companies only partially understand the risks. Buying antivirus software is one thing; deploying an effective strategy is quite another. However, companies don’t even want to admit they were hacked in the first place.Think about the big hacks that have dominated headlines in recent years. In most cases the companies disclosed the intrusion only after someone forced them to do so – either journalists or the hackers themselves. Again, let’s focus on Target. In December 2013,blogger Brian Krebs disclosed that hackers stole datafrom millions of Target REDcard users. Yet it took Target more than 24 hours to confirm it. One wonders when or even if Target would haveadmitted the breachhad it not been for Krebs’s story. The hack took place at the height of the holiday shopping season, the most important sales period for retailers. Indeed, hours before Krebs broke the story, then CEO Gregg Steinhafel issued an unusual statement to say that he was pleased with holiday sales. Once the hack became public, sales sharply fell. A few months later I wrote astoryfor theSan Francisco Chroniclethat disclosed hackers, possibly from China, had inflitrated the systems of the country’s top three medical-device companies. Only Medtronic eventually admitted to the hack – about four months after my story appeared and more than a year after the hack occurred. Sadly, Corporate America’s ineptitude is only half the problem. In general, people “just don’t give a shit” because they don’t have any real skin in the game, said one person at the dinner. Unless lots of consumers lose lots of money, cybercrime will continue to remain a vague and distant threat.Oh sure, it’s pretty annoying when you have to cancel your credit cards. But since banks and other financial institutions cover any financial losses from fraud, people don’t feel any financial pain from cybercrime – at least not enough to make them care.How else to explain this? According to SplashData, the five most popular passwords in circulation are “123456”, “password”, “12345”, “12345678” and “qwerty”. Darwin wins again.For all American pontifications about privacy, we don’t exactly make it hard for people to see our stuff.Asurvey by the Pew Centershowed that in 2014, while Americans said that they care deeply about privacy, the vast majority of respondents – 91% – had not made any changes to their internet or cellphone use to avoid having their activities tracked or noticed. Only 7% reported that they had made these kinds of changes in “recent months”.Sadly, the people at the dinner all agreed, the only thing to shake companies, consumers, and the government out of our weird stupor is a massive cyber-attack akin to 9/11. Only instead of planes flying into the World Trade Center, these cyber-attacks, whether from a hostile state or terrorists, will hurt all of us, not just people who happen to shop at Target. In the meantime we will continue to connect our appliances to the internet and download attachments from sketchy emails. But don’t count on companies or the Feds to prevent the Big One. Because they are just as lost as we are.Thomas Lee is a columnist at the San Francisco Chronicle who frequently writes about cybersecurity. This is adaptedfrom a column that appeared in the newspaper last week.
GodzillaPS3, PS4There are few things as satisfying as blowing stuff up in video games, which is why playing as Godzilla, Japan’s favourite city-razing monster, is instantly appealing. Lumbering about, laying waste to office blocks and swatting helicopters should be about as much fun as it’s possible to have. Unfortunately, Godzilla the game is a work of staggering incompetence that turns even the straightforward process of controlling your huge monster into a joy-sapping toil. Staggering at a glacial pace between stultifying encounters with large buildings and power plants, you’re constantly assailed by tanks, helicopters and bombers, none of which do enough damage to make them a real concern. More of a threat are fellow giant monsters, with fan favourites such as Mothra and Mechagodzilla putting in appearances. But these battles are also hampered by poor controls and texture-free graphics. Its poor translation, phoned-in voice acting and low-budget looks may be true to the franchise, but don’t make for an involving game. Releases this appalling were once commonplace, but these days it’s rare to find anything quite so brazen.Bandai Namco, £29.99-£44.99Trials Fusion: Awesome Level MaxPS4, Xbox One, PCA cat with a gun riding a unicorn with glowing red eyes, taken yesterday.Photograph: OtherTrials Fusion started life as a game about driving motocross bikes, but the series has become progressively more surreal, its obstacles changing from barrels and beams to exploding chemical factories and spaceships engaged in dogfights. The apotheosis of this shift is this new downloadable content, which comes with a new ride that isn’t a bike at all, but a fire-breathing unicorn ridden by a cat brandishing a handgun. Its eight new tracks are equally mind-bending, toying with low gravity and employing shifts in perspective as walls tilt to become floors. There’s even time travel, warping you between medieval, industrial and future sections of the same track, before the game beams you into orbit. In this context it’s hard to treat anything as “realism” but the physics are at least consistent, with real skill and practice required to see you through the more circuitous courses. It’s hard to know where the series will go next though, now that cranking up the weirdness is no longer an option.Ubisoft, £3.99, season pass £15.99Door KickersiOS &amp; PCDoor Kickers.Photograph: OtherDoor Kickers is a game about rescuing hostages. Viewed from an overhead perspective, you control one or more teams of gun-toting policemen, drag routes for them to follow, break down doors or lob stun grenades in your mission to kill the bad guys. It demands a contrarian mix of caution and aggression and, although you can play entirely in real time, in practice it’s easiest to pause the action to issue commands to your team, getting them to breach doors simultaneously or toss in a flare in time for another group to open fire. The action happens very quickly, and anyone caught in the open when the shooting starts is likely to be mown down, forcing you to complete levels using just the survivors or restart to look for a safer approach. Campaign mode gives you a series of levels with the twist that anyone who gets shot stays dead for ever, giving your decisions a nerve-racking sense of permanence. Tense, interesting and tactical, Door Kickers is heaven for armchair Swat team leaders.Killhouse Games, £3.99-£15
Nobody chooses to be a person who makes up slogans for cars: you have to try not to get too hung up on them. But Honda’s “the power of dreams” infuriated me as I drove the CR-V. It swam around my head. “Nobody would ever dream this!” I shouted as the stertorous automatic gear change dragged me clumsily along. “Not unless they’d eaten blue cheese and gone to sleep thinking about Talgarth Road.” The new nine-speed automatic transmission has made it smoother than the five-speed, but I still found it lurchy and lumbering.These cars are incredibly popular, dominating the compact SUV market, the bestselling in the world last year. Since the appeal of the SUV is largely to show off how much space you can take up using only your wallet and your bullheadedness, I don’t really understand the market for the compact version: people are weird, was my take-home. The City-Brake Active System is the big safety feature: a windscreen-mounted laser radar that detects a likely collision at speeds of less than 18mph and brakes if you don’t. So, if you’re in traffic of more than one lane, which you often are in town, it emits a constant high-pitched noise. It’s needlessly stressful. From what I know of driving, you always would brake, unless you were asleep: they might as well have designed a seat-mounted sleeping-driver detector with a sprinkler system.It has a panoramic glass roof, so perhaps they designed it for a driver who was looking up instead of forwards. I didn’t have a lot of use for the see-through roof, but the kids liked it because the raindrops snaked across like tadpoles. The 1.6L engine is more efficient – the best power-to-consumption ratio going, apparently, and does 55.4mpg with diesel. But you’re spending a lot of fuel for what is just a very large boot. If you had a single mattress to take to the dump, you’d be made up, which is not something you can say about many cars. But then, how often do you trash a single mattress?I began to see the point a bit more on the motorway: the driving position is natural and cosseting, the controls all very intuitive, the grip sure; it has plenty of poke, and is really quiet. It’s not a very fun drive, though. It doesn’t beg you to accelerate, although 0 to 60 in 10 seconds is, I grant, rather impressive from such a beast. The steering is steady, but you wouldn’t call it agile. In every regard, I can think of a similar car that does it better: theSkoda Yetidoes “a bit boring but safe as houses”, theFord Kugadoes “fun for sensible people”, theBMW X3does “I’ve spent over 30k, but it was worth it.”Honda CR-V: in numbersPrice£34,670Top speed122mphAcceleration0 to 60 in 10.6 secondsCombined fuel consumption55.4mpgCO2emissions139g/kmCool rating5/10Eco rating7/10
The revolution in the way we listen to music has passed another landmark, as more than 500m songs were streamed online in the UK in a single week, with Mark Ronson, Ed Sheeran and Rihanna among the most popular artists.The 505m audio streams in the chart week ending 16 July is the first time the number of weekly streams on services such as Spotify, Deezer and Google Play has topped the half a billion mark – which is nearly double the number of songs streamed a year ago.The boom is despite high-profile royalties disputes involving artistssuch as Taylor Swift, and concerns about sound quality. Neil Young hasbanned his back catalogue from streaming, dubbing the audio the “worst quality in the history of broadcasting”.Mark Ronson’s Uptown Funk was the most streamed song in the first half of 2015, played more than 45m times.Mark Ronson’s Uptown Funk racked up 45m plays in the first half of 2015Geoff Taylor, chief executive of the British Phonographic Industry and the Brit Awards, said: “It’s remarkable that we now speak of billions of audio streams per month – it demonstrates vividly just how quickly streaming is being embraced.”With 11.5bn streams in the year to date, more than 25bn streams are forecast for the whole of 2015, up from 15bn last year. When YouTube is included, the total is expected to top 50bn.The most streamed artist was Ed Sheeran, played more than 170m times, in a top five that also included Sam Smith, Hozier, Drake and Rihanna.Related:Apple Music v Spotify: how do they compare?Competition in the streaming market intensified last month whenApple launched a streaming servicea few months after theadvent of Jay Z’s Tidal. Now Facebook is reported to beon the verge of launching its own service.Peter Robinson, editor ofmusic website Popjustice, said: “Half a billion is a huge psychological boundary and suggests that resistance to streaming will soon be confined to a minority, many of whom are audiophiles whose demands may well be addressed as the months and years tick by.“It also hints at how much music people will choose to listen to if there’s no marginal cost involved in hitting play. This increase in music listening may offset at least some of the money artists, musicians and labels stand to lose as physical formats and paid downloads decline.“It’ll be interesting to see how the public respond as more services enter the fray over the coming years and music fans have to make a choice about where to spend their monthly £9.99.”While streaming figures have surged, it is not clear whether this will mean an increase in revenue for artists. The figures do not differentiate between paid subscribers and those using streaming services for free.While vinyl LPs haveenjoyed a surge in popularity, total sales of physical formats, the bulk of them CDs, have continued to decline, although the rate slowed in the first half of this year.Related:Netflix and Spotify's unlimited streams are diminishing digital content's valueTom Pakinkis, editor ofMusic Week, said: “Streaming is widely regarded as the future by much of the music industry, and the key to returning the business to health once again.“Spotify’s last official paying subscriber count in June topped 20m – up from 15m in January. So that’s an indicator of how quickly people are discovering streaming – at least for Spotify.“With the addition of Apple Music to the mix, there’s hope across the industry that growth will continue to accelerate and we’ll soon see streaming become a mass market proposition. Despite the decline of CDs, the UK market is still roughly 60% physical.”
Taxi app firm Uber hasn’t had the best of publicity recently, withcarsburned out during protests against the company, anger over itsextortionate surge pricingand one of its drivers attacking a passenger with ahammer.Perhaps it make sense then, that Uber has decided to trundle out its ice cream delivery trick again. And rather than surge pricing for ice creams – the £4 Mr Whippys of last summer – this time they are free.On Friday 24 July, Uber partnered with Wall’s in the UK, and various other partners in 58 countries, to deliver ice cream to users of the app, announcing #UberIcreamDay on its blog:Consider this your chance to bring some childhood magic to your Friday afternoon.This Friday, for one day only, we’ll be delivering a taste of summer (like they used to make it) with our friends at Wall’s. We’ll be bringing you your very own ice cream parlour on demand – completely free – with a little sprinkling of nostalgia.”We have no idea why Uber thinks ice-cream is something only children eat; as though no adults ever have been known to eat ice-cream. As if ice-cream for adults was illegal. As if ice-cream doesn’t exist anymore. And ignoring the fact the weather in the UK is almost comprehensivelywet and cloudy.We have a very happy office here full of IceCream@CatSmith1984@The_PremiumClubThanks Dublin#UberIceCreampic.twitter.com/S8MnH7Zsgd&mdash; Nikki Wan (@TheWanNonly)July 24, 2015#UberIceCream is trending worldwide on Twitter, with some happily posting photographs with ice-cream, but many grumbling about the lack of ice-cream on the road.Despite Uber promising the delivery of Cornettos “within minutes”, its site also warns that “demand will be high and availability limited”. Many users are greeted with the statement “all ice cream vehicles are busy” when trying to order.Well thanks#UberIceCream- so much for free 🍦 on a blazing hot day such as thispic.twitter.com/wxK0k7bu4c&mdash; Tony Shepherd (@tonysheps)July 24, 2015Has anyone in London managed to get an#UberIceCream?&mdash; Sophie Brown (@brown_soph)July 24, 2015This is the fourth #UberIceCream day, though during last year’s attempt the firm had more luck with the British weather – it was the hottest day of the year with temperatures as high as 31C.Well done@Uberon#UberIceCreamcampaign. Huge reach and buzz on Social. Twitter + Instagram to be exact.pic.twitter.com/cviB5VJAn2&mdash; Michal Sadowski (@socialmemos)July 24, 2015Users at that time were charged £20 for five Mr. Whippy ice-creams leading to complaints at paying £4 per ice-cream. A Mr. Whippy at a regular ice-cream van would cost around £1-£2.As well as ice-cream, Uber has also before offeredcocktails,puppiesandkittensto its riders. In the US, snuggling an Uber-delivered kitten would cost $30 (£19) for 15 minutes.Only the most cynical would suggest Uber is trying to sweeten a slightly tainted and controversial public image – especially on the very day that the company is beingsued for C$400m(£158m) by Canadian taxi drivers.•Uber delivers puppies on-demand delighting Americans in 10 cities
The grand vision of theinternet of thingsis currently an exercise in imagination. It is about what happens when more and more of the real, physical world comes online, as devices and sensors proliferate, connecting everything.The promise is that the internet of things won’t just connect our homes, hospitals, schools and streets – it will enable whole newranges of interactions, services and efficiencies. It’s not justabout the things, in other words – it’sabout the peopleand environments that animate them.This wider vision of the internet of things is still evolving, with considerable excitement fromtech firms,entrepreneursandgovernments. But it’s far from fully realised yet. And like anyevolutionary process, a heady brew of nature and chaos will determine its outcomes.Order in chaosThe chaotic evolution of the internet of things gives fuel to everyutopian and dystopian imagining. The enthusiasts argue that it will be transformative; bringingconvenience, efficiency and servicesnever before imagined. Others seehackable vulnerabilitiesand a dark world ofconsumerism, inequality and surveillance.But within these competing visions, one evolutionary truth is clear: the internet of things currently favours dominance.One of the factors contributing to the reinforcement of dominant firms and silos is the difficulty of developing and integrating internet of things applications. Functionality in highly distributed, ubiquitous computing environments involves many moving parts coming together in a coordinated, but on-the-fly way.All the complex thingsCompared with traditional software and systems like social media, web services and mobile apps, there is a hugeleap in complexitywhen you move to internet of things applications.Part of this is due to the focus on customisation: accommodating the infinite diversity in what people like, how they interact, and how they use things. In the same way that each of our homes, things and choices are different, we all have different preferences for connectivity, and what we want out of it.Thiscomplexity is compoundedby the variety of deployment environments. Take a motion sensor, for example. It might be used in a car, phone, house or any number of other places. As well as the individual user’s preferences about its use, each scenario has different data access concerns, resource requirements (power, connectivity), functional constraints, and other integration needs. Things can be mobile or fixed; always on, or sometimes on. And there’s data – lots of data. All of this needs management.Programming for the unpredictableIt is difficult for those developing and designing internet of things components to effectively predict and accommodate all this variability. Compare it to the web, where the endless and colourful variety of the web is realised through well-establishedstandards and methods for access. We all use much the same software and services, in the same, predefined ways. The grand vision of the internet of things is different – it explodes the bounded universe.To deal with this unpredictability, today’s developers tend towards one of three approaches. The first is to build “closed” systems: X’s sensing home, or Y’s health monitoring system. This is a somewhat old-fashioned, limiting view of the internet of things – where components are built for very specific purposes, and any customisation or management must be designed into the system by the developers themselves. This impacts scalability, limiting the integration of other components.The second alternative is building things to be part of a particular technical ecosystem, such as a platform likeApple’s HomeKit,Google’s NestandBrillo, orAllJoynby the AllSeen Alliance. These offer developers tools, services and other components – most of which are offered by those who control the ecosystem – to assist in the development and management of the components they build. The downside is that the interoperability regime itself can create network effects and potential lock-in with the big players.A third approach is to build things to be generically accessible or “open”. Here, developers don’t deal with the specifics of deployment, usage and runtime operation, instead offloading these concerns to the system integrators, who bring together and manage ranges of components. Currently, integration tends towards globally accessible, cloud-based services; that is, those who aggregate (which is important given the volumes, rates of data and ranges of source), and make data accessible and searchable – the Googles of this world.Centralisation and counterpowerFor the moment, all these approaches tend towards centralisation – whether towards operators of closed systems, controllers of particular ecosystems, or systems integrators for “open” systems. Data flows too,tend to be centralised, even when theyneedn’t be. So it seems thatconcerns aboutdominance,power, andcontrolin the internet of things are based on solid ground – the end-user’s controls are left to whoever controls the centralised environment.Related:The internet of things - the next big challenge to our privacySo, is there a way out? Perhaps, given the internet of things is still evolving. But the path to countering the strong forcesfavouring dominanceis far from easy.From a technical standpoint, it is possible to leverage and build upon existing mechanisms for interoperability to achieve a more decentralised internet of things. To incentivise this, what is needed isrobust legal,ethicalandcommercial recognitionthat the success of the internet of things depends on users havingmuch greater and more meaningful controlover data flows than they have had before,especially when they concern fundamental rights.Jat Singh (Computer Laboratory, University of Cambridge) andJulia Powles (Faculty of Law, University of Cambridge)are working on collaborative projects in technology, law and policy.
Released in 2005, Obsidian’s Knights of the Old Republic II is still hailed by many fans as one of the greatest Star Wars games ever made – so perhaps it’s appropriate that, like the greatest Jedi Masters, it has been given life after death.The PC version of the game, originally released in a notoriously buggy, unfinished state, has just received its first official update in over 10 years. And it’s huge.Not only has the developer finally fixed the game’s crippling problems, the team has also made it run on Mac and Linux machines. It now supports gamepads, added achievements and cloud saves, and boosts the maximum resolution to a monitor-busting widescreen 5K.The initial release of the game was so broken that players took to fixing it themselves, releasing their own homemade fixes. In doing so, they discovered that the installer included a vast amount of content that had been cut from the original game, so they cleaned it up, and added that back in as well, calling itThe Sith Lords: Restored Content.Now, on top of all the fixes, the game even includes support for Steam Workshop, the gaming platform’s tool for applying mods. It sounds like a small change, but it means that players can install The Sith Lords easily, directly from Steam, boosting the support for that mod as well.So could the idea of patching long-released games catch on? Here are a few we’d love to see fixed:Far Cry 2The sequel to the beloved open-world shooter was praised when it was released in 2008 for transplanting the first game’s island setting to a sprawling African landscape with an exotic menagerie of wildlife from zebras to wildebeest.But it was also broken on release, with crashes, freezes, corrupt save files, and mission characters who would just … disappear. Even after a patch came out (seven months later), many of the crashes still exist, and as operating systems have progressed, more have been introduced, such as the inability to download custom maps or join servers.It’s only been six years since the last patch for the game, and even the console versions are still on relatively well-supported consoles; but publisher Ubisoft is probably willing to watch players give up on the older games and migrate to the newer Farcry 4, released in the tail-end of 2014.Frontier: Elite 2The 1993 sequel to 1984’s Elite, Frontier took an already ground-breaking game and made it even more ambitious, adding procedurally generated star systems, a cold-war-based universe, and colour graphics to the space exploration sim. But the initial release was littered with bugs, major and minor, which were perhaps an inevitable consequence of a game of that scale.One bug tracker lists a few: “You can fly through planets, mountains, civilian buildings and domes … If you crash during a failed attempt to rough land, the game may crash with a memory exception, or an illegal operation … the police are stupid.”Related:How David Braben's 1984 space game Elite inspired the Rasberry PiSonic AdventureThe last goodSonicgame is almost old enough to enjoy an alcoholic beverage, but it’s never really been fixed. It was initially developed for the Sega Saturn, but eventually came out as a key Dreamcast title in 1999. As the years went on, it would be rereleased for the Gamecube, and later a downloadable release for the Xbox, but at no point did anyone pause to think “should we fix this game so that Sonic, a character intimately linked with speed, doesn’t fall through the floor if he goes too fast?” Because they really should, if for no other reason than Sonic fans need some good news these days.Related:Sonic the Hedgehog: how fans have subverted a fallen mascotWe also like this one, from afan-made online bug list: “in the Shower Room, with Sonic, if Sonic takes a shower, Sonic appears to take a shower with Tails.”Wait, is that a bug or a feature?Fallout 3There’s a trend here: big, open-world games are generally difficult to properly beta test, especially if they’re large enough that they’re partially procedurally generated. Fallout 3 is no exception, filled with exploits and bugs throughout. You’ll be having a conversation with an NPC when their face will explode in a mass of warped geometry; or an enemy will lock on to you and follow you halfway across the world for no good reason.For many players, those bugs lend the game an air of charm, and the unpredictability of developer Bethesda’s worlds is certainly aided by the knowledge that sometimes things just won’t go as you expect them. But with the game’s upcoming re-release, in preparation forNovember’s Fallout 4, there’s actually a chance that this may see a patch sometime soon.
It’s no secret tech luminaries like Elon Musk and Bill Gates worry about humanity flirting with disaster though a digital version of the Icarus myth – in our case, the power of artificial intelligence being the sun that eventually burns our wings.Even so, not every futurist or technology pioneer is quite so alarmed that our experiments with AI might confine us all to dystopian doom.John Underkoffler – the chief executive ofOblong Industries, better known as the guy who created the futuristic gesture-based interface in the movieMinority Report– is one such thinker. He founded Oblong Industries in 2006 as a first step to bringing ideas like the Minority Report interface into the real world, which means he knows as well as anyone where the bounds of sci-fi end and a high-tech new reality begins.Precrime fighter … Tom Cruise as detective John Anderton in Minority Report.Photograph: APHis company today sells what it describes as commercial versions of the Minority Report computers.Relying on them in the conference room, using a connected “wand” to manipulate on-screen data, can make the user look almost like they’re conducting an unseen symphony. That’s one manifestation of how technology giant Cisco has projected that the so-called internet of things (IoT) – the networked connection of people, process, data and things – will see connections surge up to as many as 50bn by the end of the decade.Reasons for optimismThose connections represent a whole new universe of devices coming online, sending out data, pinging other devices and servers – and, depending on who you ask,eroding more of our privacy in the process, or worse. Yet, as Underkoffler sees it, there’s no need to fear the machine-filled future that awaits us, at least not yet.Instead, he thinks there are some basic questions that need answering first, before it makes sense to even begin to think about putting limits around potential AI capabilities.“The optimist in me says, okay, millions of new objects all connected to the internet – wow, to make sense of that is going to require an incredible new interface,” he says. “I’d love to start thinking about that. How do we talk to all these objects in a coherent way? That’s a really great design problem.”He and some of his colleagues from around the globe believe an over-abundance of concern at this point about a super-intelligent AI running amok, co-opting the IoT and turning our gadgets against us means we’re worried about the wrong things – and not asking the right questions.Professor Sanjay Sarma – the director of digital learning atMITand a pioneer who helped develop the technical concepts and standards behind radio frequency identification technology (RFID) – said he believes that, on balance, AI will deliver value as we gradually connect our thermostats, refrigerators and the like to the web, and to each other.He also points to a potential bogeyman on the horizon, one that he thinks trumps potential AI-related mischief. It’s his fear that the introduction of an entirely new device class, one for which a prevailing digital architecture does not yet exist, introduces all kinds of potential new security vulnerabilities that flourish in the ecosystem’s gaps.“All technologies converge,” Sarma said. “It’s inevitable. The benefits, in my view, are potentially incredible regarding the IoT. TheBP disaster– imagine if AI were watching over those systems and could have detected the disaster earlier.Potential pitfallsSarma continues: “Do I have worries? I do. I’m more worried about artificial stupidity. I’m less worried about systems so intelligent they out-do human beings. I worry we will build artificial intelligence systems that are too smart by half, where they do something really dumb – for example, a cascading series of events that results in a power shutdown. Or a poorly designed system that gets hacked and causes havoc. I’m more concerned we will create flawed systems which compromise our privacy and our security, even unintentionally.”Indeed, Sarma thinks it’s only a matter of time before some poorly designed IoT system is hacked by a major player, creating havoc on the scale of something like a large area power shutdown.One reason? The existence of so many “walled gardens” in the sector.“I have several Nest thermostats in my house,” Sarma said. “They do one thing and do them well. But what if I want to buy a Nest system and an internet-enabled home lock, and I want to bridge the two? Where, say, I unlock the door and Nest increases the temperature. And I want to connect them to my Tesla. Well, because they’re walled gardens, what’ll happen is someone somewhere is going to do something stupid - some vendor will bridge it together - and doing that will open up security and privacy holes.“There’s a huge opportunity here that’s inevitable, and we’re all barreling towards it. But all great systems are based on clear, simple to understand architecture. The world wide web is based on hyperlinks. We don’t have a clear architectural understanding of what the IoT is. Everything is walled gardens with bandaids on top. We need to have one single garden of eden we all play in.”Meanwhile, count the technologist who envisioned Tom Cruise’s character in Minority Report swiping through data among those who think our present fears about AI-IoT are overblown.“I’m perplexed by that one,” Underkoffler says about warnings like those from Musk, who earlier this year donated $10m to theFuture of Life Instituteto finance research into keeping AI under control. “They should honestly know better. They’re either badly informed or irresponsible to be fear-mongering in that way, because the truth is we don’t have AI.“We should distinguish between AI and machine learning. There’s a lot of debate about the difference, but I think we can distill it down to consciousness. The decision to manipulate the surrounding world–- machine learning systems don’t have the slightest bit of that. The systems we build today are not built with a mechanism of modifying themselves. The mail sorting machine is never going to decide to turn into a genocide machine. The span of functionality never changes.”Shades of greyIan Pearson, a UK-based future technology consultant withFuturizon, feels more or less the same. He also sees the IoT as representing significant good as well as something for which customer trust could easily be broken.“I think if you could guarantee our privacy, most of us would love to have an environment like a smart home that adapts to what you want – lights that dim according to your emotional state, things like that could be a very nice environment,” he says. “Right now, a lot of what we have by way of AI is hopelessly rubbish. If it’s nice to us, bring it on. If we can get the benefits of AI and connectedness and it’s absolutely benign, I think it will be fantastic.”Underkoffler, whose career has included consulting on sci-fi Hollywood productions like Iron Man and Hulk in addition to Minority Report, also concedes there could be a dark side to all this. But he and futurists like him think the good and bad of bringing true AI to the IoT sphere won’t matter until other things happen first, like making sense of the jumble of user interfaces and the patchwork of code and security frameworks currently represented by all our connected devices.“My question is how you construct the user interface – what is it for? What does it do?” Underkoffler said. “There’s a question around what would be a central, universal UI, like an atom we could attach to every object to indicate, let’s say, if it’s taking information it’s collecting back to some location. Some equivalent to a dial tone – the basic bit of information that tells you something is working in a particular way.“After that, it seems like we’d need at least a minimal Bill of Rights, as it were, that we could then attach to the IoT.”“I really do think that people owe themselves a dialogue about technology that steps aside for one moment from the kind of constant churn of consumerism – away from whether you have the latest iPhone and what about the Apple Watch and so forth – and takes a look at the whole picture,” Underkoffler says. “Where’s the value? And who gets to be in control of that? Who gets to design and who gets to build it?“Of course, the moment you start asking those questions, the answer is evident – you do. if you can ask a question, you can answer it as well. And that’s a healthier world to live in. Where people have agency and can take it on themselves to modify the world around them.”
I’ve always denied that video games have anything to do with my near-constant violent urges, butMetal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Painhas now forced a reassessment of just how desensitised one can become to gore and nudity. Earlier this week my partner was using the PC to book some train tickets and the next thing I know, she’s joking about having finally caught me looking at porn. Which of course would never happen. “What the hell isthis?” she exclaimed, pointing to an image on my desktop.“It’s okay,” I replied, “it’s just a new poster for the game Metal Gear Solid V.” And then I realised halfway through the sentence that what we were both looking at was a semi-naked woman whose large breasts are dripping in blood. The game’s male lead Big Boss is on there too, but of course, his body is not on show – just his head and shoulders, which are similarly splattered with gore.8月に展開予定の「MGSV TPP」最終ポスター。店頭展開は一部の店舗で。「GZ」の傷だらけのカズとスネークの喪失ビジュアル、昨年E3の顔を隠したオセロットとスネークの悪に堕ちるビジュアルに継ぐ、血に塗れたクワイエットとスネークの姿。pic.twitter.com/tqLsIe01pw&mdash; 小島秀夫 (@Kojima_Hideo)July 23, 2015My initial reaction to the image had been fairly blasé – “wow, they’re both a bit bloody, oh well just over a month till it’s out”. Following the fairly disgusted reaction it received from a non fan, however, I looked again, and wondered why Kojima had chosen to present the game in such a way.The most curious aspect is that it’s an atypical Metal Gear Solid (MGS) image. The series’ art style does not glory in needless gore – death animations look agonising and realistic, with the accompanying sound effect a brutal crack of bone. MGS is set in a violent world, and doesn’t flinch from representing violent actions, but it is not a gameaboutmeting out violence – it’s about avoiding it as much as possible.So covering a poster in lashings of ketchup is odd, but then you look at the textures. The blood on Quiet’s face is sparse and dried, before an awkward collarbone transition takes the eye down ... to the breasts covered in rich, liquidy blood, lit and layered in such a way to create the impression of a huge areola. It’s just ... so odd. Is this about showing off the power of the game’sFox Engine? Or something else?It’s impossible to shake the suspicion that Kojima’s goal with the poster was to provoke outrage and controversy amid gaming sites and opinion makers, which would in turn, prompt fans of Metal Gear Solid, as well as fans of bloodily depicted digital boobs, to hit social media and angrily defend Kojima’s freedom of speech. These battles have already played out over Metal Gear Solid V, via the guarded yet unsettling suggestions of sexual abuse in prequel titleGround Zeroes, and the revelation that there will be a Metal Gear action figure with – yes – pliable breasts.Related:Do we need a Metal Gear action figure with squeezable breasts?All of which is a temporary distraction from the fact thatHideo Kojima’s name is not on the poster in question. Shock! Or at least it would be if this wasn’t beginning to seem like a familiar pattern. In March this year, Kojima and Metal Gear publisher Konami had an apparently acrimonious falling-out, prompting dozens of variously speculative reports about the future of the series, based on the most meagre crumbs of information. The consensus is that Kojima is leaving Konami, and Kojima Productions is closing, but actual facts are thin on the ground. One thing is for sure: MGS fans are not taking it well.Arecent videopointed out that Ground Zeroes features a mission where the player has to erase the logos of Metal Gear games made by Kojima. Other Metal Gear games appear but, if Kojima didn’t direct them, they stay. After you’ve erased all of Kojima’s titles there’s are some brief cameo lines (including one from Kojima himself) before your friend Kaz speaks over the radio:“You might be able to erase the markings, but the memories will never disappear.”This mission parallels what happened in March, when Konami released new box art images for old MGS games – with one change: the ever-present mark “A Hideo Kojima Game” had been removed from every image.If such well-engineered prophecy seems too perfect, then you may be right. Kojima adores playing with audience expectations, doesn’t mind upsetting his fanbase to do so, and has a history of examining behavioural control and media manipulation in the internet age (just play MGS 2 again). Online gaming media shares the bad habits of all online media: listicles, manufactured controversies, insufficient research, groupthink around topics, and so on.Add to this the fact that the title Phantom Pain references a condition where amputees feel their missing limb. Imagine now that the game launches, accompanied by the howls of fans wailing for their lost hero – who of course remains coy on the details of such injustice. Not only is bad Konami getting rid of the man we adore but – get this! – they’re trying to erase his name from past games! On the internet! Guys we can stop this!It’s all a bit too perfect a play on Kojima’s own status as The Auteur of Metal Gear Solid, a role he’s always been ambiguous about enjoying, and the modern explosion of fan identification with celebrity. It’s interesting, for example, that despite this apparently acrimonious bust-up and the closure of Kojima Productions, Hideo Kojima himself continues to tweet out promotional stuff for MGS V on a steady routine – including this latest poster. Such facts aren’t questioned because for many Metal Gear fans KojimaisMetal Gear, which is why the bait-and-switch would be so perfect.Related:Metal Gear Solid: Ground Zeroes fails to portray sexual violence meaningfullyIt’s not just him, either. One thing aboutQuietrather lost in the noise is that she’s an optional “buddy” character in MGS V. There are several of these and, frankly, Quiet won’t play any role in my Phantom Pain experience because I’m choosingDiamond Dogfor life. Her prominence in the marketing for the game is entirely because she is a nearly-naked woman with a hot body, but her presence in the game itself will be much slighter if you so choose. MGS 2 exploded at launch because the pre-release hype was all around Solid Snake – who turned out to be only playable in the prologue, after which players controlled the new (and immediately reviled) character Raiden.The one thing Quiet is good at is getting attention (yes, guilty). And she has done an amazing job of diverting attention from the fact that this year’s biggest game release has a hero who is also unambiguously a terrorist. Big Boss is a rogue actor radicalised by US realpolitik, building his own military nation with the eventual goal of his own nuclear weapon. He’s a neocon’s dream antagonist. MGS V’s prequel was set in prison camps that mirror Guantanamo and Abu Ghraib, while the full game takes place largely in 1980s Afghanistan, when Russia was the invading force.The poster’s Japanese text reads: “Stained in blood, the aftermath of revenge”. Big Boss is a hero to any fan of MGS, because we’ve walked every step of his journey. And here is where his goals descend into simple, bloody revenge – we know this happens, because Big Boss is the final enemy in 1987’sMetal Gear, Kojima’s debut as director and the beginning of the series.Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain is when the snake will eat its tail. Quite apart from the complexity of its subject, this kind of 30-year setup is why you’ve got to love MGS and Kojima. And it’s why the giant blood-stained breasts are so crass. Whatever his satirical intentions may be, surely Kojima knows better than anyone how a hero can become a villain. MGS V’s image could have done with a bit more class, and a lot less Quiet.
Whatever you think of video games as an entertainment medium, you’ve got to admit that replacing footballers with rocket-powered cars is an attractive idea. And Rocket League hits like a rocket-powered train. From the first seconds, as the engine growls under your all-powerful trigger finger, this feels not just fresh but perfectly-formed.Teams of rocket-propelled cars face each other in an enclosed arena, where the walls can be driven up and all corners are rounded for maximum bouncability. At either end is a large goal, and somewhere in the middle is a giant ball, around twice the height of the cars, which has what feels like its own low-gravity rules: it hangs in the air, moves begrudgingly after taps, and even when whacked will rarely outpace a rocket engine.Then each team tries to score more goals than the other. The dynamics of hitting a ball with a small rocket-propelled vehicle obviously differ from those of the foot, but the same principles apply – anyone who’s ever played five-a-side will instantly be at home with the key role of ricochets, knocking the ball into walls for clever bounces or smashing it at angles for surprise shots. Even if hitting the thing head-on can be a little tricky at first.One of the things that makes Rocket League really special is the depth of the controls, and the learning curve you go through while getting better with them. Simple things are enormous fun. Your early games will be full of flailing vehicles and mosh pits but it still feels great, and pulling off more complex moves feels even better. You soon learn the delicious kinks in acceleration, how long you can hang a jump in the air, and when to go all-in or back off. Soon you’re “flipping” the car to overtake parallel rivals, riding up walls to nose a ball ahead of the jumping mass, even hitting the juice mid-jump and taking to the skies.The titular rocket engine is a double-edged sword, capable of blasting a car across the pitch to a loose ball (sometimes right through an unfortunate opponent) but just as easily leaving you hopelessly stranded after a misjudgement. The combination of such blistering precision with the ball’s more lazy, grounded momentum is irresistible.The cars are customisable, so naturally the author has given his a crown and a Scottish flag.It’s so good, in fact, that Rocket League can put the game front-and-centre. It doesn’t waste time with extraneous modes or gimmicky rule sets, but focuses everything on rocket car football with varying team sizes and the same simple rules. The austere, one-on-one duels teach you the skills, but it’s in the 2v2, 3v3 and 4v4 playlists that Rocket League takes off, serving up match after match of player-authored brilliance: end-to-end slugfests, delicate tactical exchanges and full-blown wars all fit into quicksilver five-minute sessions.The match length, such a boring stat it almost passes unnoticed, is what gives Rocket League seriously addictive qualities. As it’s so quick to play, a swift game of Rocket League is always tempting and, after that, you’ve already got it up and running so why not have a few more? Rocket League steals hour after hour and sometimes entire evenings in these five-minute increments, each effervescent hit just making you want more.The secret of such great design, in this case, is that it’s not a first try. Developer Psyonix releasedSupersonic Acrobatic Rocket-Powered Battle Carsfor the Playstation 3 in 2009, a game more-or-less identical in concept but not quite as good in every respect. Rocket League’s visual style is brighter, its ball physics are that all-important touch heavier, and its matches are a slightly slower but much more substantial and chunky experience.The difference is phenomenal. Few games can survive on one core loop repeated ad infinitum, but Rocket League is among them. What has made this game special is the extra layer of polish on an idea that was already refined, and the resistance to adding unnecessary extras: in this way, it feels like a Nintendo game. Rocket League is simply a joy to play, win or lose. And with friends? Wow. This is the most fun you’ll ever have behind the wheel of a rocket powered football playing car.Psyonix; PC (version tested)/PS4; £16
Good day! Today’s game is, OMG, Streets of Rage II, which is on the 3DS digital store fromtoday. Why are you even still reading this?!
The Electronic Sports League, the world’s largest e-sports organization, announced Thursday its plans to implement a comprehensive anti-doping program.The ESLsaid in a statementit has partnered with Germany’s anti-doping agency, Nationale Anti-Doping Agentur (Nada), to “create an anti-PED policy that is fair, feasible and conclusive while also respecting the privacy of players,” and will be meeting with the World Anti-Doping Agency (Wada) to assist with the creation, enforcement and dissemination of the policy in the United States, Asia and Australia.The move by the Cologne-based gaming organization was prompted by a top player’s admission of using Adderall in a March tournament where players competed for $250,000 in prize money.Kory ‘SEMPHIS’ Friesen, a professional Counter-Strike: Global Offensive player, admitted he and other members of his team at the time, Cloud9, used Adderall during ESL One Katowice in Poland. Friesen was dropped by Cloud9 in April, only to join Nihilum one week later. The offhand remarks in an interview at a recent Electronic Sports World Cup event have in a short time registered shock waves throughout the sport, bringing to the forefront one of the gaming world’s worst kept secrets.Related:You'd be surprised just how big 'e-sports' is getting“We’ve known for some time that performance enhancing drugs would be a challenge we would need to face eventually as the professionalism and stakes increased across the board in e-sports,” ESL spokesperson Anna Rozwandowicztold Eurogamer on Wednesday. “PEDs are a topic we are discussing at an organisational level and will be one that we need to address industry wide going forward to maintain the integrity of our sport.”Adderall, a stimulant composed of mixed amphetamine salts, is typically prescribed to children and adults who have been diagnosed with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. It’s also been used, often illegally, as a “cognitive enhancer” that can make the user more alert, focused and able to concentrate for hours on end.Major sports organizations to have classified it as a banned substance include the NFL, MLB, NBA, NHL, MLS, the NCAA and the US Anti-Doping Agency, which oversees Olympic sports.While ESL competitors had never previously been tested for drugs, Section 2.6.4 of theorganization’s official tournament rulesstates “to play a match, be it online or offline, under the influence of any drugs, alcohol, or other performance enhancers is strictly prohibited, and may be punished with exclusion.”Until the official drug policy is implemented and tournament rules updated, the ESL will administer PED skin tests starting at ESL One Cologne next month.The ESL, founded in 1997, consists of more than 5,000,000 registered members and over 1,000,000 teams, making it the world’s largest and oldest e-sports organization.
Shares in retail giant Amazon soared 18% in after-hours trading on Thursday, making it the most valuable retail company in the world, after the company announced an unexpected profit and a sharp rise in sales for its latest quarter.Related:Amazon at 20: what has the online giant ever done for retail?The share price hike added more than $7bn to the $34.7bn fortune of founder Jeff Bezos in less than 45 minutes.As the shares climbed, they surpassed those of Walmart, making Amazon the highest-valued company in retail in the world. An hour after it announced its earnings, Amazon was valued at approximately $270bn while Walmart had closed with a valuation of $233bn.For the second quarter ending on 30 June, Amazon reported a $92m profit and gains of $0.19 per share instead of the $0.13 loss Wall Street analysts had expected. While analysts expected the company to do better than it did a year ago, whenit posted a loss of $126m, they had expected the revenue growth to be closer to 16% with revenue reaching $22.4bn. Instead, revenue rose to $23.19bn.Amazon had a lot to celebrate this quarter, according to Bezos, founder and CEO of Amazon.com.The better-than-expected results came just a week after the company celebrated its 20th anniversary.“The teams at Amazon have been working hard for customers,” he said on Thursday. “We unveiled Amazon Business, opened Amazon Mexico, launched Prime free same-day, rolled out our ninth Prime Now city, broke our Black Friday record with the first-ever Prime Day, received 11 Emmy nominations for Transparent, debuted six new kids’ pilots, brought Echo to general availability, introduced the Alexa Skills Kit and Alexa Voice Service, opened FBA Small and Light, continued to double down on our fastest-growing geography – India, launched 350 significant AWS [Amazon Web Services]features and services so far this year (ahead of last year’s pace), introduced AWS Educate, and entered into agreements for new solar and wind farms – enough to exceed our 2016 goal of 40% renewable energy.”Related:Leading authors call for government probe of Amazon's 'damaging' powerMuch of the growth reported this quarter can be attributed to the company’s Amazon Web Service, AWS, which is the company’s collection of remote cloud computing services.This is the second quarter since Amazon began disclosing revenue and operating profit for AWS and for the second time, the growth for this division surprised Wall Street analysts. In the first quarter, AWS revenue was up 49% from 2014. This time around, the revenue for AWS rose 81% from a year ago, reaching $1.82bn by 30 June.Thomas Szkutak, Amazon CFO, also pointed out that Amazon is the largest AWS customer.When asked whether the fact that the Fire phone was not mentioned by name in Thursday’s release meant that analysts should “chalk it up to a learning experience”, Szkutak said the company does not comment on a roadmap of products and has nothing to offer. He did, however, add that the company learns from everything it does and values feedback from its customers.It has not all been smooth sailing for Amazon.At the beginning of this month, the company informed writers whose works are available through Kindle Owners’ Lending Library that they will not be paid per download butinstead for page read at the rate of $0.006 per page. Up until then, authors were paid $1.30 per download. This means that only authors whose books are 220 pages long or longer and are read from cover to cover will make the same or more in the future.About two weeks later, leading authors including Malcolm Gladwell, Ursula Le Guin, Michael Chabon and Ann Patchettpenned a letterto the US Department of Justice demanding that it investigate the retailer’s “power over the book market”.
In 1985 my family made a terrible mistake – a mistake that would have far-reaching consequences; a mistake that would blight my life for several painful years. I still look back at it with a sense of sadness and, yes, if I’m honest, fury. What happened was this – and if you’re a gamer of a certain age, you may want to sit down: my family bought an Atari ST instead of a Commodore Amiga.With its powerful 16bit processor and vast 256k of memory (expandable to 512k and beyond), the original Amiga 1000 was the epoch-shattering home computer that effectively invented the concept of the all-round multimedia machine. The Atari ST, meanwhile, was pretty good for midi music.Today, the Amiga is 30 years old and the internet is full of veteran computer users nostalgically wallowing in its seminal importance. In fact, many of those people probably experienced the internet for the first time on an Amiga, via its original 1680 Modem (it had a 1200 baud rate, speed fans).But at the time, I didn’t care about its serious computing prowess or the fact that its multitasking operating system was incredibly advanced. I cared about games. And the Amiga wasamazingfor games – especially for British developers.Sure, the early Commodore 64 and Spectrum 48k had seen the rise of the bedroom coder in the UK, with famous names like Matthew Smith, Jeff Minter and the Darling brothers, creating idiosyncratic hits like Manic Miner and Attack of the Mutant Camels. But the leap in power that the Amiga represented truly freed the industry’s brightest creative minds.It was on the Amiga that burgeoning Dundee studio DMA released Lemmings, its ridiculously compelling platform puzzler that introduced inspired sandbox game mechanics to the ancient genre. DMA would, of course, go on to make Grand Theft Auto, which is a reasonably popular PC game that ended up on the consoles, or whatever.Later, the Wakefield-based studio Team 17 would similarly combine cute critters with open gameplay with its Worms series of turn-based war games, which has now been ported to just about every platform in existence and will no doubt outlive humanity. Worms began on the Amiga, as did that company’s other great series, the top-down shooter Alien Breed.Interestingly, Team17 grew out of the demoscene, an international group of hackers, crackers and coders that specialised in creating and distributing audio visual computer programs, either via the internet or at massive parties. The Amiga 500 would become an absolutely key computer in the scene thanks to its comparative affordability and its multimedia prowess. Major studios like Guerrilla (Killzone), Remedy (Max Payne) and Lionhead (Fable) would all eventually be formed by key demoscene group members.Graphical tricks“The Amiga was the first home computer that had some serious graphical and audio power, and the tools to access all that power were readily available,” recalls veteran programmer and demoscene enthusiast Byron Atkinson-Jones, who is working on first-person adventure gameCaretaker. “Having the assembler K-SEKA was a bit like having Unity3D today in that it opened up a whole new world of possibilities and gave access to the co-processors inside the Amiga.“You could do stuff on the hardware that just wasn’t available anywhere else – and that led to some amazing graphical tricks. It was nowhere near as powerful as shaders are today, but there was a satisfying feeling to mastering the hardware and making it do what you wanted. And it never seemed to end – we were always finding better and faster way to do things.”The Amiga era was Britsoft’s rock ‘n’ roll moment. We had the coolest, most edgy developers in the world. Founded in Wapping in 1987, the Bitmap Brothers made stylish, super difficult shooters like Xenon and Chaos Engine, but it also utterly changed the sports sim dynamic with its sci-fi football game Speedball - a compelling mix of fast-paced action and bloody violence.Alongside it rose another sporting innovator, Sensible Software, whose top-down-viewed Sensible Soccer series is still considered by some as the greatest approximation of the beautiful game in digital form.The threads of today’s industry can be traced back to the studios that flourished in the Amiga era. Liverpool-based publisher Psygnosis hired some of the most talented computer artists of the day, such as Garvan Corbett and Jim Ray Bowers, to produce its lavish Amiga hits Baal, Obliterator and Shadow of the Beast.Baal was a hit game written for the Amiga.These beautiful games rivalled arcade titles of the time in terms of visuals and sound – attracting the attention of Sony, which (lacking its own major internal studio) bought Psygnosis in 1993 and put it to work on seminal PlayStation titles such as Wipeout and G-Police.Several hundred miles away in Guildford, Les Edgar and Peter Molyneux set up Bullfrog Productions in 1987, and two years later brought Populous to the Amiga (and later just about everything else) – more or less inventing the god game genre.Exciting transitionThe likes of Syndicate and Theme Park would follow before the studio was bought by Electronic Arts and began its tragic decline. However, evacuating staff would later follow Molyenux to Lionhead, creator of the Fable series, or set up on their own: current Guildford studios such as Media Molecule (LittleBigPlanet) and Hello Games (No Man’s Sky) can be traced back to that company.The Amiga era was a period of exciting transition, from the formative days of the 8bit computers with their cute, blocky games made by cute blocky bedroom coders, to the serious business of the 32bit consoles, with their big development teams and million-dollar budgets.In the UK, it took a while for consoles like the NES and Master System to take hold, so creative development was dictated by the freer home computer scene, allowing idiosyncratic talents like the Bitmap Brothers and Sensible Software to flourish.But around the world, developers were using the power and accessibility of the Amiga to challenge old game design conventions and create new ones. In the US, LucasArts and Sierra were setting the whole point-and-click adventure scene in motion with Secret of Monkey Island and Kings Quest, while Westwood Studios kickstarted the real-time strategy craze with Dune II. And in France, there was Delphine Software bringing incredibly lifelike human animation to its standard-bearing modern platformers Flashback and Another World.This was truly an age of ideas and burgeoning connections, an era in which the industry grew in confidence and cultural significance. I had to watch from the sidelines, or tour the houses of fortunate friends who made the right decision. I experienced the machine almost vicariously, through the brilliant magazines of the era, most importantly the anarchic Amiga Power, where irreverent writers like Stuart Campbell and Jonathan Davies helped create a new kind of games journalism.The Amiga 1000 was the theory, but the later Amiga 500 (more streamlined and cheaper) was the practice. It was a thrilling time of discovery and uncertainty, unharnessed and unsullied by the coming mega-publishers. The tendrils of the Amiga generation stretch out and unfurl across the rest of games history, they reach toward us, through the people who started making games in that era and still make them now, and through the resurgent indie scene, which owes many of its ideas to that golden era.Meanwhile, the Atari ST was good for midi music.At least in the next generation my dad bought a Sega Mega Drive.
Universal Pictures in France has been seeding a pirated copy of its latest blockbuster Jurassic World from its own servers.The Chris Pratt-featuring reinvention of Steve Spielberg’s 1993 action spectacular that revolutionised visual effects, has been riding high in the box office top 10, but has also seen high levels of piracy.Universalfiled a takedown noticewith Google on 15 July under the US Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA), asspotted by the Register, demanding that the search engine block links to several sites allegedly hosting or linking to pirated copies of Jurassic World.Among the block requests was a link to “http://127.0.0.1:4001/#/fr/”. The Internet Protocol address “127.0.0.1” is typically reserved to describe the “localhost” or machine on which a program or user is operating. This indicates the pirated copy of the movie was being hosted within Universal’s own computer network.Movie studios and publishers typically use automated programs that search for unlicensed copyrighted works, in this case a movie. The program likely found a file being linked to from outside Universal’s network on its own computers, meaning that Universal was seeding pirated copies of its own movie.Universal is no stranger to odd takedown requests. The movie studio also sent takedown notices to Google to request that the Internet Movie Database page listing its film Fast &amp; Furious 7be removed from Google’s indexdespite it hosting no infringing content.•Large-scale online pirates to face up to 10 years’ jail under ministers’ proposals
Three months after launching its first smartwatch, Apple has reported record revenues and vast iPhone sales - but no numbers on its new wearable. That has got commentators asking whether the Apple Watch is a flop.Before its launch, financial analysts were predicting watches would fly off the shelves to the tune of 40m in the first year. Those estimates were based on the performance of Apple’s iPhone, which sold 47.5m in a single quarter.For a new product in a new category with unproven functionality, the reality is likely to be closer to 2m to 4m, which has some declaring theApple Watcha flop.However, Ben Wood, head of research at CCS Insight, said: “This concept of the Apple Watch being a flop is absolute nonsense. It is the most successful smartwatch ever, selling twice as many units as the rest of the competition combined and it has only been available for three months, and in limited quantities.”Related:Apple Watch review: beautiful hardware spoiled by complicated softwareEarly smartwatch pioneer Pebble shifted 1m watches in three years, while Google’s Android Wear watches produced by a variety of manufacturers only sold 800,000 before the end of last year.Despite supply problems that meant shoppers could only buy an Apple Watch online initially, it was more popular than any that have come before it.As an indicator, within three months of going on sale about 1.8% of Guardian app users with iPhones capable of supporting a smartwatch have viewed a piece of Guardian content on an Apple Watch. The same cannot be said for Android Wear users.Apple’s entry into the market has also been good for the competition, raising awareness of smartwatches, showing that there is a viable market and piquing the interest of non-iPhone users.Wood said: “Apple has sold enough for other manufacturers such as Samsung and Google to persevere, but whether smartwatches will ever be a blockbuster hit remains to be seen.”For now, the smartwatch remains a niche product that has many scratching their heads as to why they would want to spend £150 or more on a smartphone accessory.Doubts remain about whether the Apple Watch will be a blockbuster hit.Photograph: Kay Nietfeld/CorbisMoving the bings, bongs and buzzes of smartphone alerts from the pocket or bag onto the wrist is the primary purpose of a smartwatch, but that perceived convenience isn’t a big enough draw for many to shell out £300. That has left the fate of the smartwatch and its form and function very much up for discussion.Killer featureFrancisco Jeronimo from research firm IDC said: “In one year, after Apple puts several million devices out there on peoples’ wrists, we will have much more detailed information on what people like, what they do with smartwatches, and what people want; it will completely change the shape of the category.”For smartwatches to enter the mainstream a killer feature or three will be required. Some have suggested enhanced personal assistant-like features might tempt users, while others consider Apple Pay and mobile payments to be key.Health monitoring has also been suggested as a primary function with heart rate monitors common to the wearables. Smartwatches are expected to swallow fitness trackers like smartphones have done to cameras.“We’ll be waiting several years before Apple ships smartwatches in the 40m range, but I do believe the market will explode with the support of developers, lower prices and more features that are independent of a smartphone,” said Jeronimo.Others have wondered whether smartwatches will meet the same fate as Google Glass, which encountered problems over self-image and privacy; a pair of ugly glasses and a camera strapped to the face.‘The evolution of the digital watch’While Glass and smartglasses are likely to find a home within business in scenarios where hands-free information placed within the eye-line could be very useful for hands-on jobs, smartwatches are more likely to be a consumer device.Angela McIntyre, of research firm Gartner, said: “We could think of smartwatches as the evolution of the digital watch – they’ve been around for decades with a digital display, but now they have the capability to be connected.“According to Statistics Brain, 1.2bn traditional watches are sold every year and 23% of those are digital watches. If just a small percentage of digital watches become connected, that’s a lot of smartwatches.”Mont Blanc offers an “e-strap” for its TimeWalker watches.Technology companies are focused on watches with fancy touchscreens, but they are not the only ones looking at the sector. Traditional watch manufacturers are also eyeing up a lucrative new market that could attract buyers who have stopped wearing watches.“In the gifting market, as we head to Christmas, there could be a big uptake within cheaper, more basic smartwatches. Analogue watches with small ticker-tape displays for instance,” said Wood.Casio already has watches with Bluetooth connections to smartphones, while luxury watch makers such as Mont Blanc have entered the category with smartstraps that add screens to existing analogue watches.For Wood and other analysts, the interesting Apple Watch numbers will be the end of the first year after they are available to view, buy and take away from physical stores.Apple is likely to have done enough to justify a second generation of Apple Watch, and the competition will be fierce - if only at other end of the scale - from its £13,500 gold Watch.•Pebble boss: ‘one day, people will not be able to live without their smartwatch’•Five of the best smartwatches for 2015
New York Uber users can rest easy: there will be no limit on the number of its cars cruising the streets following a deal between the mayor’s office and the online taxi service.The surprise agreement follows a war of words in which New York city mayor, Bill de Blasio, accused Uber of trying to“dictate to government”and failing to take a “wise course” in its dealings with the city.The city council had been due to vote on Thursday on legislation that called for a 1% cap on Uber’s growth in New York while a 12-month study into its impact on traffic and the environment was conducted.Related:California taxis can sue Uber over ads claiming safer service, judge rulesUber has fiercely opposed any restriction and last week released an update in which users could select a “De Blasio” option that showed fewer, or no, cars available nearby in New York.The deal means there will be no restrictions on Uber while it conducts a four-month study.The company will also give the city more data about its journeys and will examine how to make more of its vehicles accessible to people with disabilities.First deputy mayor Tony Shorris, who is running city hall while De Blasio is on a European visit, said: “The city received a willingness on the company’s part to make sure there was no effort to flood the market with dramatically increased rates of growth. The company eventually agreed to what we’ve been asking for a while.”City officials said the deal is similar to what De Blasio had originally offered Uber. It was struck after Uber executives held a meeting on Wednesday with officials from the council and the mayor’s office.The New York City mayor, Bill de Blasio, had accused Uber of trying to ‘dictate to government’.Photograph: Tony Gentile/ReutersThe New York governor, Andrew Cuomo, was among the public officials who had called for the council to delay the vote and welcomed the agreement.Josh Mohrer, Uber NYC’s general manager, said: “We are pleased new drivers will continue to be free to join the for-hire industry and partner with Uber.”The company had rejected the mayor’s main argument: that Uber played a major role in traffic congestion.It has about 25,000 vehicles on its books in New York – more than double the number of yellow taxis.However, the company said it had an average of just under 2,000 cars an hour in the city’s central business district during the day, far fewer than the number of yellow taxis.City officials say that yellow taxis make 90% of their trips in Manhattan. Uber claims that a far lower percentage of its rush-hour trips begin on the island.When talks broke down last week, Uber launched a television advertising campaign that depicted De Blasio as being too close to the yellow taxi industry, which is one of his biggest donors.
Karma wifi was first mentioned to me as I was heading to a conference in Texas early last year. A friend lent me their own hotspot, their early adopter enthusiasm pitching it as a secret weapon against the tyranny of expensive and irritating data costs when travelling abroad.And we all know that odd sensation of internet angst - the feeling that your laptop has become an island of futility, cast adrift from all the cloud-based streaming, email and web services upon which we have all become so dependent.So if the question is “how do I avoid ridiculously overpriced data when travelling in the US?” – is the answer really Karma?It’s a small device and pleasing in the way only a rounded lozenge can be, little more than 7cm square and slim. It has just one button, and some minimal lights. But it’s Karma’s approach that is different, and a more imaginative solution to the roaming problem.Related:Internet of Bins: Wi-Fi to come to New York trash cansKarma users do two things. First, they buy their own hotspot (or, as in my case, borrow one for the trip). Second, they sign up for a Karma account, loading on however much data they want. And then they turn on the device, log in, and do whatever it is that they want to do on the internet. I bought 10GB of data for $99 (£63).There’s an incentive in being free of contract or subscription, but also that you can log in with your Karma account to any Karma device. If you log in to someone else’s, they get an extra 100MB of free data added to their account.If someone logs into your device, you get an extra 100MB of free data; this happened nine times during SXSW, although that is one of the world’s biggest concentration of technophiles. I addition the data does not have a best before date, although the option to log in with Facebook has been removed on the Karma Go.Karma’s founders started work in Amsterdam nearly four years ago. Co-founder and chief executive Steven van Wel said he was frustrated by having to jump through so many hoops to get online in the US, and ended up feeling he was “living in flight mode”. He is aggressive about Karma’s plans to expand and take on the big internet providers.“These are huge companies and monopolies and for those reasons there isn’t enough innovation in this market. That’s the thing that keeps us up every night - how we can improve the experience of connecting to the internet,” he said.Karma chief executive Steven van Wel“We want to take customers from those big corporations. Comcast, Verizon, and BT in the UK make millions every month from people for their internet connections - and we want to eat into that.”However, van Wel did not dismiss the idea that Karma might sell itself to one of those companies one day: “I’ll never say no to the possibility, but our priority is the idea that the business of internet connectivity sucks and there isn’t a startup committed to solving this. It’s about the relationship with the customer and even if there’s a big cheque down the road, I’d rather see us get a million people online.”Karmais only available in the US for now, and there are no conversations as yet in the UK and Germany, though the EU’s attempts to solve the roaming charges problem might make this less of a priority.Despite the convenience for travellers, 95% of Karma’s customers are in the US - people who already have subscriptions or contracts but use Karma on top so they don’t exceed their data caps.Social layerThe second version of the Karma hotspot, Karma Go, is being shipped from today. Some 20,000 people signed up for pre-order since September and the company expects to sell at least as many as the first version of the hardware, which sold 40,000.It’s very easy to use, and the combination of a social layer on top of a nicely designed piece of hardware is very compelling - even if they do need to do a little work to reduce the “creepiness” of a stranger logging in to your hotspot while you’re on it too.One limitation is battery life, which would only last a full working day if I used it intermittently and remembered to turn it off completely when not using it. Karma Go has been improved, they say, and can last up to 200 hours by putting itself to sleep after 30 minutes.While it might not yet have any competitors for ease of use, it does have competition over price. Karma’s data is expensive compared to 3’s roaming tariff, for example, and there are other workarounds if you’re organised enough to plan in advance of your trip. I’m not.So the trip ended, and I came back to the UK with unused data that will sit in my account until I log in next. It’s just as well the data I bought isn’t assigned to that hotspot, because two months later I lent it to a friend and he lost it. But easy come, easy go. Karma, even.
Sony is launching a company to produce camera drones in a partnership with the autonomous driving startup ZMP.The new drone manufacturer, Aerosense, will use Sony’s imaging, sensing and networking technology from its smartphone range to create aerial surveillance and reconnaissance drones for businesses.ZMP will provide the robotics expertise to make them fly. Sony will not sell drones but will lease them for “measuring, surveying, observing, and inspecting”.Related:Drone users face jail if they 'recklessly endanger an aircraft in flight'Large civil drones capable of carrying high-powered photography and video equipment have proven useful in the movie and television industry, but their use in construction and other industries for surveying dangerous or difficult to reach areas is in its infancy.Drones are expected to be one of the growth areas in electronics, as the sensors and technologies needed to sustain stable flight have become cheaper, making them a viable device for both business and consumer products.The availability of basic consumer drones for less than £50 has caused issues around privacyand safety, with aircraft near-misses becoming an increasing concern.Legislation over drone use has held back their development.In the UKdrones with cameras must not be flown within 50m of a building or a person or within 150 metres of a built-up area and kept below 400 feet. The drone must always be flown within 500m of the pilot and within their line of sight.In the US, where Amazon and other companies are attempting to develop drone technology for delivery services among other uses, rules governing drone flight are under revision by the Federal Aviation Authority (FAA).Medical supplies weresuccessfully deliveredto a remote clinic via drone in an FAA-approved trial last week.Sony is hoping that its drone company will be ahead of the curve for industrial use, competing with Yamaha and others in Japan and companies such as Australian firm Flirtey on the global stage.•Drone firing handgun appears in video•First successful drone delivery made in the US
Hearthstone is to receive its second major expansion in the form of The Grand Tourney.The newly announced set will boost the pool ofBlizzard’s free-to-play card battlerby another 132 cards to almost 700 when it launches in August, as well as introducing the first new keyword to the game since it launched in 2013.The major theme of the cards revealed so far is built around the pre-existing hero powers of the game’s main characters – the individual spells which are the only thing in the game that can be played without using a card. That new keyword, “inspire”, fits with the theme by giving cards abilities that fire when their owner activates their hero power.Two more newly-revealed cards.Photograph: BlizzardAs the story of Hearthstone progresses further along the same tracks laid down by its parent game, World of Warcraft, Blizzard says that the expansion will take heroes to the frozen wastes of Northrend, “where the heroes of the Argent Crusade once held a tournament to coax out Azeroth’s greatest fighters – and prepare them to battle the undead legions at the icy heart of the realm. The Lich King’s evil has been vanquished, but that doesn’t mean the jousting has to stop … the competitive atmosphere’s just a lot more playful (and a bit warmer) than it used to be.”The expansion is the fourth overall for the game, and the second content release to provide serious growth to the cardpool,after 2014’s Goblins vs Gnomes. Like that expansion, and unlike the single-player adventures Curse of Naxxramas and Blackrock Mountain, the cards will be released through a new type of booster pack, available for purchase for £0.99 or 100 in-game gold, so don’t expect to collect every new card any time soon.
Should I upgrade Windows 7?Should I go for the Windows 10 upgrade or continue with Windows 7? My laptop is five years old and working very nicely after I installed an SSD (solid-state disc). It has a 2.2GHz Intel Core i5, 8GB of memory and a Blu-ray drive. I am worried about drivers.Ratish GuptaThe “Get Windows 10” (GWX) app – the white icon in the systray – will check your PC for compatibility, so see what it says. You can run it again later, because its verdict may change as more information becomes available, and suppliers update their drivers. However, there’s no need to rush: you have a whole year to accept the free upgrade.In fact, Windows 10 will get a staged roll-out over a month or more: not everybody will be offered the upgrade on 29 July. You can wait to see if there are any major compatibility problems.Also, Windows 10 is still missing a few features, such as extensions for the Edge browser, and a new OneDrive app. It’s a work in progress, and will be continuously updated.Windows 10 is a better replacement for Windows 7 than Windows 8 ever was, but Windows 7 still works well, so you can keep using it. It will be supported until 2020.Can I use a disc?I have more than one computer. Do I have to download Windows 10 numerous times, on a slow connection, or just once, save it and use each computer’s licence key?John AWe’re all assuming that Microsoft will make installation media available in some way:probably an iso filethat you can download and burn to DVD (as for the test version), and perhaps in a USB-friendly format. You can use this to update all your Windows 7 and Windows 8 PCs. It will check each PC to see if it qualifies for the free upgrade, and provide each one with its own Windows 10 product key.Note that if you have used the GWX app to reserve a copy of Windows 10, then you have given Windows Update permission to download the Windows 10 code in the background. You must therefore go to the Windows 8.x network settings and set it as a metered connection. This will prevent the download. In Windows 7, run Windows Update, click “Change settings” and select “Check for updates but let me choose whether to download and install them”. You will have to make sure you still download and install important security patches etc on the second Tuesday of each month.Also note that you cannot do a “clean install” this way. You must upgrade your current version of Windows 10 first, make sure it is activated, create your own recovery media, and do a clean installation from that. However, you should probably use Windows 10’s built in “Reset this PC (Get Started)” option instead.Can I go back?If, for any reason I don’t like the upgrade to Windows 10, will I be able to restore my laptop back to the factory (Windows 8.1 operating system) condition? I have also backed the recovery partition up to a USB drive, so could I use that?GrahamI’m not sure exactly what’s going to happen: the Windows 10 “in place” update may not behave the same way as the test version, and it will vary according to the amount of disk space available. However, Windows 10 does not use a recovery partition – it“rebuilds the operating system in place using runtime system files”– so it may leave it intact. Either way, if you have backed up the recovery partition, then recovering your PC from your USB thumb drive or recovery DVDs can recreate the recovery partition and take your laptop back to “factory condition”. Of course, this will also delete all your programs and data, but you can restore those from a standard backup.The Windows 10 “in place” update will also roll up your old Windows installation and save it in a folder called Windows.old (assuming there is room).This will give you 30 days to revert from Windows 10, if you don’t like it. If you want to keep Windows.old longer, I assume you can back it up or copy it somewhere safe. But don’t leave it too long, because you will lose changes you’ve made after installing Windows 10.Windows 10 is not free!I have a Windows 8.1 laptop, and have reserved a copy of Windows 10, but I am soon going to build my own mATX PC. My question is whether I can get Windows 10 on my new PC for free given the fact that I own a copy of Windows 8.1.JoshNo. Microsoft is not giving away Windows 10, it is giving away upgrades to Windows 10 for devices running Windows 7 or Windows 8. Copies of Windows distributed with PCs are locked to the motherboard and their licenses are only valid on the first PC on which they are installed. (So you don’t actually own a copy of Windows 8.1, just a license to run it on a specific laptop.)You can buy an OEM (original equipment manufacturer) copy of Windows for your mATX PC, in which case it will be locked to that machine when you install it. Alternatively, you can pay extra for a full retail copy of Windows. Retail copies include Microsoft support and the freedom to uninstall the operating system from one PC and install it on a different PC.Updates for ever …Does Microsoft keep the Windows 10 iso downloads updated? In other words, should I run updates immediately after they have been downloaded and installed?MPFIn the old days, the Windows operating system was fixed when a version shipped, at least until Microsoft rolled up the security patches into Service Pack 1, or whatever. So, after you installed the OS, you might have to install hundreds of updates to get to the current version.That no longer applies. Windows 10 will be updated continuously, in the same way as Chromebooks, smartphone apps, and web-based systems such as Gmail and Facebook. While I don’t know Microsoft’s plans for iso downloads, I’d expect them to be kept reasonably up to date. There will be no more service packs, just regular snapshots.In future, Windows Update will install both security patches and – in a break with tradition – extra features for as long as your device (display screen, desktop, laptop, tablet, phone, games console etc) keeps working. Under this system, most Windows 10 users will be running the same system, which is good news for software providers and bad news for malware writers.The drawback, for some people, is that you must keep auto-updating Windows 10. (SeeWindows 10: updates will be mandatory for home users.) If you don’t, your PC will become unsupported.Ask Jack has had more than 400 questions about Windows 10, which is too many to answer personally. If yours isn’t answered here, seeMicrosoft Windows 10 free upgrade: five questions answered,Microsoft Windows 10 free upgrade: 10 more of your questions answered, andMicrosoft Windows 10 free upgrade: seven more questions answered.Have you got a question? Email it to Ask.Jack@theguardian.com
One of the most dysfunctional couples in the history of children’s fiction, The Twits, are starring in a new children’s game for smartphones and tablets.Roald Dahl’s Twit or Miss, due for release on Thursday, is the first in a planned series of apps based on the author’s back catalogue, released by the Dahl estate and publisher Penguin Random House.“One of the areas our kids audience expects to find Roald Dahl is in the digital space, so it’s very exciting to be able to work with Penguin to bring the stories to life through apps,” said John Collins, brand marketing director for the Roald Dahl Literary Estate.Related:10 children's app trends for 2015Twit or Miss is a free gamefor Appleandfor Androiddevices developed by Aardman Digital, with animation inspired by the original book’s illustrations by Quentin Blake. It involves deflecting food spat out by Mr Twit before it hits his sleeping wife.Children score points for tasks including hitting him in the eye or plopping items into his cup, with other references to the book including worms to squash, bird pies to splat, and a mugwump monkey spreading sticky glue on the ceiling.“It’s the Roald Dahl centenary next year, so a good chance to start building up the stories’ presence in the digital environment,” said Jemma Kamara, digital producer at Penguin Random House. “Kids are spending more time using digital content, and The Twits is a really nice way of starting that journey.”She added that the game is an attempt to reach children who may not be aware of The Twits, as well as those who are already familiar with the original book (and some of their parents).The Twits was first published in 1980, although it remains popular among modern children, scoring highly in Dundee University’sWhat Kids Are Readingstudy of the most popular books in British primary schools earlier this year.The Twits wasrepublished earlier this year with added scratch ‘n’ sniff stickers, and was alsorevived as a play in London’s Royal Court Theatre, joining musicals based on Dahl’s Matilda and Charlie and the Chocolate Factory on to the stage.Meanwhile,an adaptation of Esio Trotwas a flagship show for the BBC last Christmas, while 2016 will bringa live-action film of The BFG directed by Steven Spielberg.“The stories are timeless and universal, and we can see that the books are still as popular as ever both at home and in schools. But children expect to engage with brands in a different way in different areas, so it’s vital that we continue to take the stories and characters to our audiences in different places,” said Collins.“The important thing is that apps are not a contrivance: apps are a great fit for Roald Dahl’s characters and stories, because there is such a rich vein of story elements, characters and environments. This is not a one-off app: it is the first of many that we are intending to develop. We’ll be able to do games, but also educational learning apps.”Related:The best iPad apps for kids of 2014Kamara said that a second Dahl app will launch later in 2015. “Then next year we’ll continue expanding the portfolio around Roald Dahl, choosing a different character, and that will probably continue for the next 3-5 years,” she said.“He has so many characters and stories, and they cover quite a broad range of ages fromThe Giraffe and the Pelly and Mefor toddlers through to Going Solo for tweens and early teens. There’s a broad spectrum of stories and universes we can play with.”The new apps will sit alongside the official Roald Dahl website, ebooks available through major retailers including Amazon, Apple and Google, andan audiobooks app for Apple’s iOS devicesthat is being promoted within the iOS version of the Twit or Miss game.“The key thing for Roald Dahl is that he was really keen that children enjoyed his stories. The medium through which those stories are told was not of concern. It is really about children enjoying the stories and engaging with them,” said Collins.“If that is happening, whether it’s through apps, ebooks or traditional reading, I would imagine he would approve. He was passionate about telling stories: it was not about writing books. Everything we do, whether it’s TV, musicals, a movie or digital, is about engaging children with narrative.”The Twits game will promote Penguin’s existing Roald Dahl audiobooks app.Arguments about the growing role “screen time” is playing in children’s media habits have been raging since Dahl was alive: the character of Mike Teavee in 1964’s Charlie and the Chocolate Factory was a jab at children’s growing television viewing.“That was about the perils of television, but for Roald Dahl it wasn’t about the technology itself. It was about the length of time that children engaged with it. From a contemporary point of view, it is all about balance,” said Collins.“It’s a very subjective area, whether using technology to engage children with literature is a good or bad thing. There’s no right or wrong: it’s purely opinion. But if you can use technology for an educational perspective, like reading or writing, that’s where children are at now. It’s what they expect, but if you can use the traditional methods, that’s fantastic as well.”Related:The best Android apps for kids of 2014Twit or Miss is a game, but the Dahl estate and Penguin hope that if it proves popular – and being free with no in-app purchases should help in that regard – it will build an audience that may be interested in engaging with more educational apps based on the books.“I haven’t met any kid that only does one thing, or has one preferred form of media. They always jump from device to device, and on to physical objects like books and toys,” said Kamara, on the screen-time debate.“There’s always another way they can play and tell stories and make-believe. I genuinely don’t believe any one media is going to blast in and wipe everything else out.”“I grew up with Roald Dahl stories, and my children have grown up with them as well. It’s really important that every generation coming through finds a way to engage with them, and pass them on,” added Collins.“There will always be a place for good storytelling, whatever the technology around it is.”
The philosopher Jeremy Bentham famously requested in his will that his body be dissected and put on public display. This came to pass, and his skeleton now sits in a glass case at University College London, adorned with a wax head, waistcoat and jacket and sat on a wooden stool, staring out at students from its glass case.Bentham was regarded as the founder of utilitarianism and a leading advocate of the separation of church and state, freedom of expression and individual legal rights. And now, from beyond the grave, his cadaver contains a webcam that records the movements of its spectators andbroadcasts them live online, part of UCL’s PanoptiCam project which tests, amonst other things, surveillance algorithms.  As I write this, a young couple are walking across the corridor, his hand pressed against the small of her back.Prof Melissa Terras, director of the UCL Centre for Digital Humanities, tells me that the camera is used to learn the best way “to identify and count different people in still images, accurately.” UCL are hoping that it will spark discussion around contemporary surveillance, but it isn’t a coincidence that this webcam is attached to Bentham’s box. The PanoptiCam project is a pun on the “panopticon”, a type of institutional building that has long dominated Bentham’s legacy.The Panopticon legacyAs a work of architecture, the panopticon allows a watchman to observe occupants without the occupants knowing whether or not they are being watched. As a metaphor, the panopticon was commandeered in the latter half of the 20th century as a way to trace the surveillance tendencies of disciplinarian societies. Is it still a useful way to think about surveillance in an age of NSA and GCHQ?The basic setup of Bentham’s panopticon is this: there is a central tower surrounded by cells. In the central tower is the watchman. In the cells are prisoners – or workers, or children, depending on the use of the building. The tower shines bright light so that the watchman is able to see everyone in the cells. The people in the cells, however, aren’t able to see the watchman, and therefore have to assume that they are always under observation.“The panopticon wasn’t originally Bentham’s idea. It was his brother’s,” says Philip Schofield, professor of the History of Legal and Political Thought and Director of the Bentham Project at UCL.“His brother Samuel was working in Russia on the estate in Krichev and he had a relatively unskilled workforce, so he sat himself in the middle of this factory and arranged his workforce in a circle around his central desk so he could keep an eye on what everyone was doing.”Bentham went to visit his brother in the late 1780s, saw what he was doing, and decided the centralised arrangement could be applied to all sorts of different situations - not just prisons but factories, schools and hospitals.Bentham managed to persuade the prime minister, William Pitt the Younger, to fund a panopticon National Penitentiary, but a stream of problems eventually meant the project was abandoned. Bentham never saw a panopticon built during his lifetime. A number of prisons have since incorporated panopticon elements into their design but it wasn’t until the 1920s that the closest thing to a panopticon prison was built – the Presidio Modelo complex in Cuba, infamous for corruption and cruelty, now abandoned.The abandoned Presidio Modelo complex in 1995Photograph: The Guardian‘The principle is central inspection’The French philosopher Michel Foucault revitalised interest in the panopticon in his 1975 book Discipline and Punish. Foucault used the panopticon as a way to illustrate the proclivity of disciplinary societies subjugate its citizens.He describes the prisoner of a panopticon as being at the receiving end of asymmetrical surveillance: “He is seen, but he does not see; he is an object of information, never a subject in communication.”As a consequence, the inmate polices himself for fear of punishment.“The principle is central inspection,” Schofield tells me. “You can do central inspection by CCTV. You don’t need a round building to do it. Monitoring electronic communications from a central location, that is panoptic. The real heart of Bentham’s panoptic idea is that there are certain activities which are better conducted when they are supervised.”In many ways, the watchtower at the heart of the panopticon is a precursor to the cameras fastened to our buildings – purposely visible machines with human eyes hidden from view.The parallels between the panopticon and CCTV may be obvious, but what happens when you step into the world of digital surveillance and data capture? Are we still “objects of information” as we swipe between cells on our smartphone screens?Unlike the Panopticon, citizens don’t know they are being watchedJake Goldenfein, researcher at the Centre for Media and Communications Law, University of Melbourne, tells me it’s important to remember the corrective purposes of Bentham’s panopticon when considering it as a metaphor for modern surveillance.“The relevance of the panopticon as a metaphor begins to wither when we start thinking about whether contemporary types of visuality (effectively digital and data-driven) are analogous to the central tower concept. For example, whether this type of visuality is as asymmetrical, and – I think more importantly – being co-opted for the same political exercise. Does the fact that we don’t know we’re being watched mean we are being normalised in the way the panopticon was intended to correct behaviour?”Jeremy Bentham’s panopticon diagramPhotograph: The GuardianAs Goldenfein suggests, the asymmetrical exposure of inmates in Bentham’s building is of a different order to how government bodies such as GCHQ conduct surveillance. In the panopticon the occupants are constantly aware of the threat of being watched – this is the whole point – but state surveillance on the internet is invisible; there is no looming tower, no dead-eye lens staring at you every time you enter a URL.It wasn’t until the Snowden leaks that the scale of NSA and GCHQ operations became known. This arguably makes the system more panoptic post-Snowden, when we are aware of it, but it hasn’t been the official rhetoric. The original emphasis, and still the emphasis today, hasn’t been on correcting behaviour but on providing security, namely from terrorists.Another important difference is the relative intangibility of data surveillance. With Bentham’s panopticon, and to some extent CCTV, there is a physical sense of exposure in the face of authority.In the private space of my personal browsing I do not feel exposed – I do not feel that my body of data is under surveillance because I do not know where that body begins or ends. We live so much of our lives online, share so much data, but feel nowhere near as much attachment for our data as we do for our bodies. Without physical ownership and without an explicit sense of exposure I do not normalise my actions. If anything, the supposed anonymity of the internet means I do the opposite.My data, however, is under surveillance, not only by my government but also by corporations that make enormous amounts of money capitalising on it. Not only that, but the amount of data on offer to governments and corporations is about to go through the roof, and as it does the panopticon may emerge as a model once more. Why? Because our bodies are about to be brought back into the mix.Facts about dataInternet of things: morals reformed? Health preserved? Industry invigorated?The looming interconnectivity between objects in our homes, cars and cities, generally referred to as the internet of things, will change digital surveillance substantially. With the advent of wider networked systems, heralded by the likes of Google’sBrilloand Apple’sHomeKit, everything from washing machines to sex toys will soon be able to communicate, creating a vast amount of data about our lives. And this deluge of data won’t only be passed back and forth between objects but will most likely wind its way towards corporate and government reservoirs.With everything from heart-rate monitors in smartwatches toGPS footwear, a bright light is once again being thrown on our bodies. Will we feel exposed under the gaze of a central tower? Perhaps not, but with habits and physical stats charted against the norm, we will feel scrutinised nevertheless. Much of the justification of this is the alleged benefits to health and wellbeing. “Morals reformed – health preserved – industry invigorated” – not Apple marketing material but Bentham’s words on the panopticon.There may not be a central tower, but there will be communicating sensors in our most intimate objects.Bentham didn’t want the panopticon to be a tool for oppression, and in fact its failure eventually led him to develop a type of anti-panopticon later in life – where a minister sits in an exposed room and is surrounded by members of the public who listen and ask questions.The idea is that this transparency holds power to account, because the most dangerous people in society can be rulers. It is important that they, as well as prisoners, workers and children, feel watched.It is difficult not to think of that audience chamber when you stare at Bentham in his box, a skeleton on a stool, an object of information posed for all to see.
Hundreds of game developers, publishers and analysts recently descended on Brighton for the annual Develop conference. There werecontroversial keynotes, there were talks about how to make money in a rapidly fragmenting marketplace, but there were also some interesting forward-looking sessions, concerned with where the games industry as a whole is heading – not so much in terms of game design (that’s the domain of events like the Game Developers Conference and SXSW), more in the way the sector will operate as a business. Some of it is pretty weird.Here, then, are the major trends that we picked up on, all of which could completely change the way games are made – and played – in the near future.1. Parents as gaming advocatesDuring her talk about the gaming habits of modern teenagers, Alison York, research director at Nickelodeon, talked about how we’re now seeing the first generation of parents who grew up playing games themselves and are passing that passion and knowledge on to their children. Through a recent survey of UK families, the channel found that 75% of parents they surveyed now play video games with their children, and that children aged 10 or under take most of their gaming recommendations from their parents.At the same time, families are spending more time together in the living room, with a reduction in the number of children with TVs in their rooms. Everyone may be on different devices (each household now has an average of 8.4 digital gadgets according to Nickelodeon’s figures, drawn from its own surveys as well as Ofcom figures), but they’re closer than they’ve been for years. This could all lead to a steep rise in titles that seek to challenge and entertain both parents and children together – a sort of Pixar effect. Of course, Nintendo has operated in this space for years, as has the Lego series, but the parent/child co-op market may well increase substantially as more millennials become parents.2. 360 degrees of freedomAccording to Nickelodeon’s research, 34% of children under 11 have a tablet, and they are now tending to get their first smartphones as they enter secondary school. “As a result, this ‘swipe generation’ seamlessly navigates between the digital and real world,” says York. “They expect 360 play, where each platform adds something to the experience.”We’ve already seen brands such as Moshi Monsters, Bin Weevils and Angry Birds seamlessly working as physical toys, games and merchandise; there’s also the rise of thetoys to lifegenre, with Skylanders, Disney Infinity and Nintendo’s Amiibo figures leading the way. We can expect more of these 360-degree franchises, as children become even more used to navigating between screened and live entertainment. TheAngry Birds activity parkshint at how games companies will use brand extensions to broaden their scope. We’re also seeing the reverse happening: Legoland in Windsor, for example, has an app that offers games and features that interact with areas of the park itself.This won’t be confined to family brands. We’re likely to see more “hardcore” titles conceived simultaneously as games, movies and animated TV or web series, often sharing digital assets. There have been rather mediocre experiments in this area – notably theHalo Nightfallseries andDefiance– but this won’t deter new projects, as cross-platform distribution evolves. “There are so many channels now and they’re typically looking for digital content,” said Todd Harris of Hi-Rez Studios during a panel discussion on the future of games. “You want your game to be a lifestyle, a hobby, a passion that people spend money on regularly.” Look out for Microsoft’s experimental TV/game titleQuantum Breakin 2016.3. Indies get physicalChildren play Alistair Aitcheson’s physical game Tap Happy Sabotage at the GameCity festival in Nottingham. Indie developers are increasingly experimenting with microprocessors, RFID and NFC devices, and alternative controllers.Photograph: GameCityIt’s likely that creating toys that tie-in or interact with games won’t be confined to major publishers like Activision and Disney; 3D printing is getting cheaper, allowing the manufacturing of action figures. We’re already seeing the growth of companies likeSandboxr, which make it easier for game makers to create and distribute models based on their titles, while Amazon has launcheda 3D printing storefor customers.At the same time NFC (near-field communication) technologies are also becoming more affordable, possibly allowing the wider development and production of toys-to-life experiences. For example, Tawain-based studio Monkey Potion has developed a fantasy strategy board game namedProject Legionwhich has NFC chips in all the pieces – this allows the game to interact with a companion app, which tracks each move and shows it onscreen.Hi-Rez Studios, meanwhile, has a service allowing players to buy 3D printed figures based on its game Smite, but it has bigger plans. As Harris explained during the Develop panel: “We want players to be able to go to Amazon, buy the game, see a 3D print, buy that too, and then have that open up a cool item in the game.”Peter Heinrich, a games development evangelist at Amazon, suggested that this prospect is very close. “I think we’re at a tipping point. Over the next 18 to 24 monthsRFIDand physical devices are going to play a huge role.”Indie devs are also looking into alternative ways to combine digital and physical play. UK-based designerAlistair Aitchesonis using cheap Arduino circuit boards to create wirelessly connected game “buttons” which can be placed around an environment. His game Codex Bash has up to four players unravelling a code and then running around a room trying to hit the correct symbol buttons in the right order, before their opponents do. His next project features wearable buttons, turning participants into walking game controllers. There’s evena whole festivaldedicated to games created using alternative controllers.“Electronics has got very affordable,” says Aitcheson. “It’s possible for people to buy an Arduino off the shelf, and it’s something that’s easy to program and requires very little setup. It means that making weird object-based games, new controllers and new interfaces is possible for anyone with a tiny bit of electronics knowledge and some imagination.”4. Blurred lines between games and social mediaAlphabear is a cute smartphone puzzler that has a social sharing mechanic built right into its game design. This will become more commonWe’ve already seen plenty of virtual worlds – like Moshi Monsters and Club Penguin – that operate both as games and social spaces. But a new generation of games is exploiting improvements in broadband connectivity and networking features to make more dynamic social experiences. Minecraft has become a popular venue for friends to meet and talk while working collaboratively, and titles like Destiny andThe Crewhave emphasised the sense of socialising, sharing and connectivity. Forthcoming co-op titles are likely to build on the idea of multiplayer titles as social rather than just gaming experiences.At the same time, the current consoles have built-in social sharing systems, so players can easily take screenshots and videos and distribute these on social networks without leaving the game. The recent smartphone word puzzler Alphabear has built sharing mechanics into its intrinsic gameplay, which creates weird, amusing sentences that can be immediately shared on Twitter – a perfect word-of-mouth marketing feature. Expect more games to make sharing integral to design.5. The spectator experienceIn the era ofTwitch(120 million viewers a month) and celebrity YouTubers, it’s becoming increasingly important for developers to consider how their games will be viewed as well as played. “The statistics in terms of the hours people spend playing games and watching games, are beginning to tilt toward the latter very quickly,” said industry veteran Ian Baverstock, founder of small publisher Chilled Mouse. “It’s like the MTV moment for the music industry – suddenly you have to have something that is enjoyable to watch. Over the next 18 months, we’re going to see more developers trying to exploit that, specifically aiming their games at YouTubers.”This is already happening of course. Indie titles like Goat Simulator, Gang Beasts and Speed Runners have been built to appeal directly to YouTubers and Twitch streamers via fun co-op modes, quirky visuals and lots of potential for funny video footage.Dave Ranyard of Sony Worldwide Studios also envisions an era in which “how to” or “let’s play” videos and video production tools are incorporated into the games themselves. In this way, players won’t have to venture outside of the experience to see hints, tips and playthrough videos.6. The era of transparent game designDutch developer Vlambeer streamed the development of its game Luftrausers on Twitch, giving fans a behind-the-scenes view of the creative processDevelopers have spent the last three years using crowd-funding sites like Kickstarter to both finance new projectsandgain a dedicated community. On top of that, initiatives like Steam Early Access and the new Xbox Preview programme allow fans to buy games before they’re finished and have a say in how the development process pans out. This is likely to become ever more common as small studios break out of the traditional publishing model and seek financial assurances before committing to major new projects.We’ll also see more studios seeking to make the development process itself more transparent, perhaps by live-streaming from the office. “It’s hard to do but it’s really powerful,” said Todd Harris of Hi-Rez studios. “Think about Vlambeer – they stream all their development online. They’ve got something like 12,000 subscribers who are paying a monthly fee to access that stream – that’s a huge amount of revenue on its own, but then they’re also interacting closely with their audience in real-time. Those people become amazing advocates for the game when it’s released.”Rami Ismail says we can expect these changes in the ecosystem to have an effect on the types of games that are made. For example, he suggests that roguelike games have become popular as a genre because people like the Steam Early Access service and roguelikes work well on Early Access.However, Alexis Kennedy of Failbetter Games thinks narrative game designers will also learn to use early access effectively. In his talk, Choice, Consequence and Complicity in Interactive Stories, he admitted that while “narrative games in early access are a much harder sell than sandbox games in early access”, there are ways to make an early-access narrative game work: write the beginning and end first so that players will at least be able to finish it, “keep your roadmap public”, and make sure you pay attention to both players who’ve been involved since the start and those who are new to the game.More recently, Ismail thinks, the introduction of refunds on Steam (which let users get their money back on downloads if they play for less than two hours) may begin to affect the length of narrative games. Whether people actually start to return to shorter games after completing them or not, developers may worry about that happening, and stop making short games anyway.7. Players as creatorsA moment from Nintendo’s forthcoming platform game creator, Mario MakerGamers won’t just be watching development taking place in the future, they’ll be contributing too. A rising number of Kickstarter campaigns are offering backers creative roles in the project, whether that’s appearing as voice actors or helping to compose the music. We’re also seeing the return of user-friendly map editors with titles like Mario Maker, Hotline Miami 2 and Doom set to offer powerful creative tools, allowing players to construct their own levels and then share them online.Of course, modding has always been a vital part of the PC gaming scene, but player-generated content may be about to hit the console sector in a big way, leading to a new era in which developers are effectively able to outsource development of new content to dedicated fans. We may even see a mainstream version of Valve’s Steam Workshop, which allows PC game modders to sell their creations to other players.8. Coworking creativesIn a talk entitled Killing the “Lucky Indie” Myth: How to Build a Sustainable Micro Studio, Simon Roth of Machine Studios spoke about how another developer rents a desk in his office in Oxford. This is becoming increasingly common as an increasing number of smaller studios set up without the funds to rent their own offices. Dedicated spaces like the Bristol Games Hub, the Arch Creatives in Leamington Spa and Playhubs in London offer cheap shared working space to developers, who are also able to share ideas and resources.These sites, along with university incubation projects, could facilitate a new generation of developers who aren’t reliant on publisher support or investor funding, perhaps leading to a wider variety of experimental projects.9. Minor indies becoming major playersNo Man’s Sky from Hello Games is effectively an indie game with the reach of a major studio projectWe’ve seen how digital distribution and cheap tools like Unity have empowered a new generation of independent developers. However, that sector is evolving, so that, instead of producing niche titles for small audiences, indie teams are now working with console platform holders and Steam communities to create genuine crossover smashes. Developers like Mike Bithell, Hello Games, ThatGameCompany and FullBright may be small, but they’re operating more like the mid-sized Double A studios of the 90s, aiming at mass audiences with highly polished titles.Related:The five most disruptive ideas in video game design“One of the great things I’m seeing is the transition of indie development to the mainstream – the whole definition is changing,” said Amazon’s Peter Heinrich during the panel session. “There’s been a democratisation of development, so now those one- and two-person teams are armed with the resources they need to bring their games to a much wider audience.”10. Mainstream games become services and platformsWe’ve seen how smartphone developers like Rovio, Zynga and SuperCell have turned their games into platforms by reacting to metrics data, tweaking difficulty accordingly, and then adding downloadable additions to their big brands – rather than bringing out regular sequels. This sensibility is now feeding into mainstream console and PC development.“We’re starting to see free-to-play design and ethos coming into premium games,” said Baverstock. “Developers are learning how to use metrics to evolve games in the face of user data”. The result may be more games like Destiny. Bungie’s online shooter is geared heavily toward co-op play and the studio has a whole internal team dedicated to watching and interpreting server data, as well as player feedback, which is then used to tweak the experience. Activision has also focused on delivering regular content updates, rather than announcing a sequel.Related:Destiny: how House of Wolves builds on the story – and why there's no raid“Retention is key,” said Heinrich. “Keeping your current customers is easier than going out and finding new customers, particularly as acquisition channels increase. The consoles have embraced free-to-play, and that retention line is starting to come to the current machines.”Ismail blames the “platform dance” and other trends on what he calls “the revenue problem”, which he says results from the prices of games going down in real terms (thanks to the notion that games need to “stay the same price”, plus inflation) and the cost of development going up.Ways in which developers have attempted to make up for lost money include: “increased efficiency” (ie the damaging overtime and increased pressure late in development known as “crunch”), patches being sold later as DLC, micro-transactions, and pre-orders and special editions.Indeed, in this new era of post-release purchases and games as services, annual iterations are likely to get more rare, perhaps confined to the really big, very traditional titles like Call of Duty and Assassin’s Creed.11. eSports becomes Sky SportsMajor eSports events like the League of Legends world championships are attracting huge numbers of online spectators – how long before they end up behind a paywall?Photograph: LIONEL BONAVENTURE/AFP/Getty ImagesSo far, game publishers have allowed their content to be streamed for free on platforms like Twitch and YouTube, but that is unlikely to continue. “The YouTubers are massive celebrities, and they’re effectively parasitically living off the games industry, making a lot of money out of it,” said Baverstock. “We’ve got to figure out how to make that work for us as well as it does for them”. Of course, Nintendo has attempted to introduce revenue sharing programmes with YouTube gamers, and there’s been an angry backlash – but if the likes of Activision, Electronic Arts and Ubisoft follow suit, there’s not much that viewers will be able to do.This could well extended to the eSports world where, currently, the major tournaments are all available to view for free. This runs counter to traditional sports broadcasting where rights are charged and consumer must pay for subscription access, usually via satellite or cable channels. A similar model may well find its way into pro-gaming. “Fifa charges an awful lot of money to view its content, but in the games industry we don’t charge anything,” said Ranyard. Already, Twitch allows partner channels to charge a subscription, and Major League Gaming has added subscription packages to its own eSports streams. More will follow.12. The evolution of crowdfunding: first deviation then regulationShenmue III is coming to PC and PS4 in 2017 – helped by a hugely successful KickstarerThrough large-scale projects like Elite: Dangerous and Shenmue III, we have seen crowdfunding sites like Kickstarter being used as a way to gauge interest in a product before full development (or wider investment) begins.As the use of crowdfunding evolves, we can expect to see a wider variety of experiments with the process. Major eSports games like Dota 2 and Smite have both used crowd funding to boost the value of prizes offered at pro-gaming tournaments. Last year, Valve managed to raise a prize pool of $10m for its Dota 2 championship by charging players $10 for the game’sCompendiumvirtual sticker book. Hi-Rez put in a prize pool of $600,000 for its first Smite tournament, but then managed to bring in an extra $2m by offering players paid in-game items. The company has also used in-game item sales to raise money for charity.However, it’s likely that crowdfunding will become the subject of greater regulation as its use expands, and as we see more high-profile controversies, likethe recent upset over the game Godus.“There wasa recent ruling in the States,” said Harris. “For the first time, The Federal Trade Commission came in and made a ruling for a Kickstarter campaign. In that case it wasn’t just that the project didn’t reach completion, the FTC judged that the developer had misrepresented how the funds would be spent. That was interesting and there will be more of that in the future.”13. Rise of the silver gamersAs the population ages, we’re going to see an increasing number of people either carrying on gaming into retirement, or perhaps discovering gaming in their later years. That’s a huge market for developers to explore.Helping people to cope with isolation could be one huge benefit. “We are social beings and social interaction is very important,” says cyber-psychologist Berni Good who presented a talk about silver gamers at Develop. “We know that people’s thoughts, feelings, actions and behaviours are influenced by real, imagined or even the implied presence of ‘others’ and, even if that’s with non-player characters in video games.“As psychologists we are beginning to understand that eudaemonics (the theory of being happy) can be realised with engagement and immersion on video game play. Research on character identification suggests that audiences regularly imagine being the character, and research around parasocial experiences suggest that people react to character as if they were real, physical beings.”So there may soon be a large market for games that simulate social experiences in a very different way than current titles – or that emphasise or exploit the greater range of life experiences of older players. Good argues that ageing gamers may find they have important roles to play in shared co-op experiences with younger relatives. “With added moral and ethical choices in games, older people may have more emotional intelligence than younger players,” says Good. “Older players may not be able to pursue the hobbies they used to because they just don’t have the same stamina or capability. This is where video games can really help, by playing games, older people can still get a sense of purpose, they can relate to others in a meaningful way.”14. Managing trollsAs the interaction between developers and customers increases, so does the amount of anger and abuse that studios open themselves up to. A key element of making games in the future will be learning to manage this influx. In his keynote speech at the Develop conference in Brighton, Gearbox Software chief executive Randy Pitchford advocated trying “to get fuel from” haters as well as fans because, “if they tell us they love what we’ve done or tell us they hate what we’ve done, we’ve still moved them”.Rami Ismail of Vlambeer, however, took a different approach in his keynote. “The implication is that you need every single one of your customers,” he said, and then showed the audience a particularly offensive email he received. “I don’t need this guy.” He summarised his talk with a similar sentiment: “You don’t have to accept something from a consumer just because they might give you money.”15. The “platform dance”In his keynote speech, Ismail mentioned something he calls “the platform dance”, in which developers are moving from one platform to another. Several of the talks from the conference reflected this movement between platforms, like Relentless Software’s Andrew Eades’ From Console Superstars to Mobile Wannabes and Back Again. According to Ismail, the pattern he sees is that developers move from mobile to PC because of its lower user-acquisition costs, from PC to console, in pursuit of higher discoverability, and from console to mobile because they want to make more cheaper games.Furthermore, Ismail said that because PC customers are split into those who buy day-one special editions and those who wait for Steam Sales, “we’ve effectively recreated whales in the PC segment”. In other words, PC developers may have to start thinking more like smartphone developers, specifically developing and then exploiting a small group of higher-spending fans.16. Virtual and augmented reality become commercial realitiesVirtual reality headsets like the Oculus Rift have the power to utterly change the player experience of interactive worldsPhotograph: Jae C. Hong/APTalking about the arrival of virtual reality as a mass consumer phenomenon, Sony’s Dave Ranyard said during his Develop panel discussion, “It’s not if, it’s when”. Most of the Evolve day at Develop was dedicated to sessions concerning the development of VR games. The key headsets are almost here: theHTV Viveis out in November, theOculus is possibly February 2016,theMorpheuswill follow in the second-quarter. Microsoft is preparing itsHololensaugmented-reality headset; Google is backing theMagic Leap. On top of this, there is already a vast development community, experimenting with the tech, ironing out some of the technical problems and forming the design conventions that will create brand new (and non-nauseous) experiences. Big publishers like Ubisoft are alsostepping up their researchinto the area.For game developers, there could be a huge boom in business as major corporations suddenly scrabble to provide their own virtual-reality applications. Because of this, venture capitalists and angel investors are apparently crowding in on the sector. As Ian Baverstock put it at Develop: “From an investment point of view, oh my God, virtual reality is the place you want to be.”
The Iranian bore down on the US, a goal or two away from bringing America to its knees and achieving world domination. America’s sole defender stared ahead, unblinking. There would be no deal with Tehran today.Thus a team of Americans and their four-and-a-half-foot robot defeated Iran 5-4 in the RoboCup soccer final on Wednesday, denying the Iranians the 2015 title. The victory keeps the geopolitical rivalry heated in at least one arena, even if relationshave improvedin the diplomatic one.The American robot, named THORwin and designed by a team from the University of Pennsylvania, won the “adult-size humanoid” category ofthe annual event, held this year in the eastern Chinese city of Hefei.In the “adult” category, rival robotsface off one on oneand take turns as striker and keeper. The automatons must stand at least four feet tall, and have to dribble past objects on the field before they cock a metal leg and take a shot at goal.Despite the advanced technology that makes the robots, American soccer fans will not soon stand in awe of their grace or clamor for electronic athletes on national teams – at leastnot on the women’s team. The robots shuffle about in search of a ball to kick with the finesse of a microwave on stilts, and fire off shots with the force of an overcharged toaster.The skeletal Iranianrobot, designed by Baset Pazhuh Tehran, stands (relatively) tall on flat feet and spindly legs. A stick that might be its head juts out from a boxy torso.Related:RoboCup robot competition – in picturesThe American robot, 108lbs of motorized menace, has flat-paneled legs, a broad and open torso and a vaguely rhomboid head fronted by a visor.But the robots putter the ball to glory all on their own, showcasing their sophisticated AI software. They play uncontrolled by the engineers who designed them.A University of Pennsylvania teamalso wonthe category’s top prize in the 2014 RoboCup in Brazil. Iran has become a perennial contender in the competition,placing firstin last year’s “teen-size” category and third in the “kid-size” league.In the latter, two-foot-tall robots battle on the pitch, each mechanical player designed to have its particular emphasis on speed, power and balance. There are four robots per team.Matches tend to play out not unlike soccer played by children who have not quite grasped the rules or bodily coordination. The robots swarm around a tiny ball, knock each other over, dive wildly at inopportune moments and, occasionally, summon all their feeble powers to get the ball in the goal.Japanwonthis year’s child-sized tournament, beating China 1-0. The only British team to qualify for the 2015 RoboCup were defeated in the second round by a French squad.The teen-size competition featurestwo robots per team, each of which can weigh at most about 88lbs, and involves the robots taking turns shooting at goal. In last year’s thrilling final, two Iranian robots knocked over their incompetent German adversary and slowly lobbed the ball toward the net.Roboticists and engineers hope the RoboCup will promote their fields around the world; 175 teams from 47 countries and regions participated in the 2015 tournament, according to the China Daily newspaper.
Growing concerns about the health of the Chinese economy helped wipe $40bn off the value of Apple on Wednesday despite the company reporting a sharp increase in global sales and profits.The 5% fall in share price in the world’s biggest company was mirrored by a slide in shares in mining and commodity firms to their lowest levels since the stock market crash of 2008. Investors regard the mining and commodities industries as vulnerable to a slowdown in the world’s second biggest economy.Oil, gold, zinc, copper and platinum prices were all down on a day when markets were dominated by second quarter results from Apple that showed strong growth but were less impressive than dealers had been anticipating.Despite a doubling of sales of iPhones to China’s growing middle class over the past year, financial markets fear the recent official Chinese figures showing economic growth of 7% are exaggerated and that consumer demand may flag in the coming months.Related:Apple leaves Wall Street hungry for more – can it deliver?The consultancy firm Oxford Economics said alternative measures showed China expanding at between 4-5%, while analysts at broker Cowen pointed to “evidence of a widespread demand reset from China” as they downgraded their forecasts for Apple’s prospects.The Chinese stock market has been focus of world attention in recent weeks after a collapse beginning in mid-June that prompted companies to suspend their shares to prevent even more precipitous declines. Retail investors – an estimated 90 million of them – had poured into the market, which has fuelled concerns that their losses may reduce their ability to generate demand for products in the future.Weaker exports from emerging markets, including China, were the main factor behind a 1.2% monthly fall in world trade volumes in May. The decline is part of a recent sluggish trend that has convinced some economists that globalisation has stalled in recent years.Commodity prices have been supported by the rapid industrialisation of China, but policymakers in Beijing have been trying to slow the economy and make its growth better balanced. Copper prices were trading on Wednesday at almost their lowest level in almost six years, while US oil prices dipped to $50 a barrel. Analysts know the metal as “doctor copper” for its ability to reflect the underlying state of the global economy.Analysts at Goldman Sachs, said: “It is, in our view, highly likely that the four-year trend decline in copper prices is set to continue through at least 2018.” The Bloomberg commodities index hit a 13-year low.Apple share price graphTim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, said he remained upbeat about prospects for China, but disappointed analysts by refusing to give details of sales of the Apple Watch, which was launched in April. In the past, Cook has emphasised the importance of Chinese growth to Apple’s future growth.In London, ARM Holdings, which supplies chips for the tech company’s products, was the biggest faller in the FTSE 100, which closed 101 points (1.5% lower) at 6667. The index was also dragged lower by share falls in mining companies, with Glencore and BHP both down sharply and Anglo American at its lowest price since 2002, surpassing the lows reached during the depths of the global banking crisis recession seven years ago.Although sales of iPads continued their decline of the past 18 months, Apple reported its largest ever cash pile of $203bn, a 33% rise in annual revenues and a 37% increase in year-on-year profits. But it still managed to disappoint Wall Street, and because of the company’s sheer size, the Dow Jones industrial average closed almost 70 points down.At one point Apple’s stock market value had fallen by almost $60bn as investors weighed up the prospects for a company which has usually beaten even the most optimistic forecasts.“World trade volumes for both goods and services have risen by less than global GDP over the past four years,” said economists at UBS. “This is an unprecedented outcome in postwar history. There are few signs moreover that global trade growth is picking up, despite evidence that suggests activity in the US and the eurozone is accelerating.”Financial markets are anticipating the first increase in US interest rates from the Federal Reserve later this year, a move seen likely to lead to investors pulling their money out of emerging markets and adding to their economic problems.
A British cybersecurity firm backed by software entrepreneur Mike Lynch has been valued at more than $100m (£64m) in a new funding round.Cambridge-based Darktrace aims to combat sophisticated cyber-attacks with software that learns the behavioural patterns of every device, user and network within an organisation. When unusual activity is detected, the Darktrace software alerts human cybersecurity experts.US venture capital firm Summit has invested $22.5m in the business, just months after Darktrace was valued at $80m in a previous fundraising which included Lynch’s venture fund Invoke Capital. Others involved in the prior round, which concluded in March and raised $18m to help Darktrace expand in the Asia-Pacific region, included Talis Capital and Hoxton Ventures.“Darktrace is reinventing the way organisations protect their data and assets, with a truly differentiated solution developed by some of the leading minds in machine learning and mathematics,” said Antony Clavel, a vice president at Summit Partners. “Darktrace’s ... technology responds to an urgent need for more advanced cybersecurity, given the volume and complexity of today’s cyber-threats.”The startup’s success is good news for Lynch, who is seeking to revive his reputation as Britain’s answer to Bill Gates after the sale of his corporate search software firm, Autonomy,turned sour. As well as being an early backer, Lynch sits on the Darktrace advisory board, alongside Lord Evans, who was director general of MI5 from 2007 to 2013 and spent 33 years at the UK’s internal security agency.Also on the Darktrace board is Andy France, former head of defence at GCHQ, Britain’s cybersecurity agency, who was chief executive of the company for a year before being replaced by Nicole Eagan, a former chief marketing officer at Autonomy. A 17-year veteran of the America’s National Security Agency, Jim Penrose, runs Darktrace’s US operations, which launched in January.Darktrace’s technology is based on mathematical research carried out at Cambridge university. Instead of trying to create a defensive wall around an organisation, Darktrace employs the principles of espionage to uncover the activities of hackers as they occur. The software also plants “honeypots” in networks that allow it to detect and monitor intruders.France has described Darktrace as a “groundbreaking, gear-shift moment”, saying last year: “The traditional cybersecurity industry have all got hammers and they’re all looking for nails to hit. That just doesn’t work in 2014”.Darktrace’s chief executive, Nicole Eagan, said of Summit’s investment: “This is yet another validation of our machine learning and mathematics approach, and will enable us to maintain a fast pace of innovation.”Autonomy was bought by Californian computing giant Hewlett-Packard in 2011, but Lynch left HP thefollowing yearafter an acrimonious split over the $11bn deal.The US company subsequently took a massive writedown on the purchase, accusing Lynch and his former finance director, Sushovan Hussain, of using accounting tricks to artificially inflate Autonomy’s value. HP is now suing Lynch and Hussain for more than $5bn. Lynch has said he will launch a counterclaim.Darktrace became the first publicly announced investment for Lynch’s Invoke Capital, which was launched after his departure from HP. Eagan, who had left Autonomy and joined Lynch at Invoke, stepped in as chief executive to replace France last year. Several other Darktrace employees worked at Autonomy, including chief technology officer Jack Stockdale and chief financial officer Poppy Gustafsson.
