"The International Olympic Committee is barring competitors, as well as coaches, support personnel and other officials, from writing firsthand accounts for news and other Web sites. An exception is if an athlete has a personal Web site that they did not set up specifically for the Games," reportsAP."The IOC's rationale for the restrictions is that athletes and their coaches should not serve as journalists -- and that the interests of broadcast rightsholders and accredited media come first."Comment:It would be interesting to know if the IOC came up with this piece of self-destructive stupidity on its own, or if it was prompted by the giant media corportations paying big bucks to cover the games.
It looks like Doom fans without a PC will have to wait a little longer to play Doom 3 on their Xbox.Gamespot reportsthat the Xbox conversion is likely to be delayed until 2005. I saw a version running at publisher Activision's recentActivate event, and it looked pretty decent.The graphics obviously weren't as good as the PC - a lower resolution on the TV and lack of £300 graphics card the main reasons - but it certainly retained enough of the visual prowess that made thePC gamesuch a blast. Ah, well, Xbox owners will have to console themselves with a stack of other goodies coming out before Christmas, including Fable,Halo 2and Pro Evolution Soccer.
Wow. It wasn't that I'd forgotten how good it was, but when I putIcoin the PS2 last night it reminded me how there has been nothing like it before or since. Ico is one of the finest videogames ever - offering a dreamlike experience that actually justified Sony's use of the term"emotion engine".On the surface the game seems a generic 3D platform game - boy meets girl, boy escapes with her from castle prison. But playing the thing is a whole different experience. Whether it's the way that your playable character calls out to his female companion - Yorda! - as they reach for each other across a chasm or the stack of pleasingly tricky puzzles, Ico is a revelation. The reason? You care about the characters. You care that Yorda is stranded and you are unable to help. You care so much that the ending sequence will bring tears.The visuals too are perfectly stylised, with a faded, washed-out look that gives some credence to thevideogames are artargument. Ico sold hardly anything when it was released in 2002. If you have a PlayStation 2 or, indeed, any interest in videogames at all, then try and pick up a copy. You won't regret it.
The Registerhas a short piece based on a post dated 8-19-2004 atIFO Applestore. The store will apparently be on Regent Street, just below Oxford Street, where there is already a large toy shop:Hamleys.Comment:It will be interesting to see how well London's independent Apple dealers fare against competition from their supplier. In the US, some dealers sued Apple for "fraud, breach of contract, unfair competition, false advertising and even racketeering", according to alocal TV channel, and Mac Web site ThinkSecret did aSpecial Reporton the accusations.Of course, these dealers already have to compete with Apple UK's online store, where Apple has a"price matching"promotion apparently designed to take their business away.
Some typically sinister corporate double speak from Microsofthere, explaining the closure of the company's in-house Xbox sports game developer.Look beneath all the talk of refocusing, and the message is, 'Electronic Arts has won, we can't compete. We're getting the hell out of here!', confiming once again EA's vice-like grip on the sports sim genre.At least in the west. Over in Japan, Winning Eleven 8, the latest in Konami's fabulous footie game series (called Pro Evo Soccer over here), has topped the charts for asecond week. Released on August 5th, the game went platinum immediately with a million copies shipped. In Europe, the series often struggles to hold its own against the inferior (but getting better) FIFA series from EA.By the way, after her post on tasteful videogame-branded accessories, Aleks will no doubt be pleased to note that there's a limited edition of Winning Eleven 8 complete with a stylishbaseball cap!
No one knows where the person who runshttp://mc.clintock.comlives but we do know that in the cabinet by their fridge they've got doorknobs, a bag of batteries and some big scissors. We know this because they have chosen their website to photographically document every object in their home. Weird.In a similarly veinwww.soundgrabs.comkeeps 12 - second snatches of audio it describes as "candid recordings from everyday life". These include a cashier getting her hand trapped, some seagulls and, our favourite, a grumpy postman.More obsessional behaviour at The Daily Photo Project (www.c71123.com/daily-photo/) where the same man has taken a picture of himself every day for the past six years. Adam Seifer (http://fotolog.net:8080/cypher) is undertaking a similar project, except with food -"not everything, just the major meals". Thanks for sharing.
Me And Billy Bobwww.meandbillybob.comWhen does fan worship go too far? Is it when you stop just collecting your idol's every movie or CD and start emptying their bins? Or is it when you have the same 13 tattoos in exactly the same position on your body as Billy Bob Thornton? Travelling to San Francisco one night, the maker of this website, Jillian McDonald, awoke in the middle of the in-flight movie just as Billy Bob and Cate Blanchett were enjoying a slow kiss. "I knew immediately and irreversibly that I should be kissing him instead of her," she writes. To redress the balance she built a website and also inserted herself into dozens of Billy Bob film clips so that she appears as his leading lady instead of Cate and co. Alas this magnificent example of fan extremism isn't real, it's art, but it's still freaky.This Isn't Londonwww.thisisntlondon.blogspot.comThis blog bills itself as the internet's premium source for untrue, made up and false information about London. Indeed it is doing sterling work advising of non-existent objects in the British Museum (Bangalore's tram network, the contents of the original Parthenon gift shop), bogus Daily Mail headlines ("New Asylum Seeker Breast Cancer Threat to House Prices") and bogus plans for an extra 60 platforms at Paddington station. Last week we particularly enjoyed the article on some of the capital's lesser-known monuments such as The Tomb Of The Unknown Itch and a historical look at Victorian open air vertical lidos. If you were wondering where the spirit of Monty Python went to look no furtherBabyshambleswww.babyshambles.comThis is the official website of Babyshambles, a punk rock side project of Pete Doherty, recently sacked, possibly never to return multi-troubled boy genius of the Libertines. As well as delivering live bootlegs of both his bands and the odd candid photo, this is also the place where Pete keeps his Books Of Albion for scholars of rambling gibberish to decipher. It would seem that, along with his more troubling habits, when he isn't under arrest Pete is chained to his laptop updating fans on his daily activities - often posting information about secret gigs - and most recently writing coded missives to his former Libertines bandmate, Carl Barat. For Libertines fans this is an essential bookmark, for the rest it's like an internet version of rubbernecking a motorway pile-up.
Game Stars Live 2004LondonUntil last year, the only video game show open to UK consumers was the PlayStation Experience, delivering a fairly biased picture of upcoming releases. Game Stars Live changed all that, and this year's show comes with exclusive looks at the mighty Halo 2, Pro Evolution Soccer 4 and the very promising Star Wars: Battlefront in which you take part in some of the better-known skirmishes in a galaxy far, far away. Other attractions include the unavoidable 1980s arcade, the Retro Lounge, where you will invariably be able to play Pac-Man and Asteroids yet again; the Groove Zone, featuring karaoke and dance mat games; the finals of the European Online Gaming Championships and the Get Into Gaming Zone offering career advice for Miyamoto wannabes.&#183;NG ExCel Exhibition Centre, London, E16, Sep 1-5, £10 adv/£12 on day/concs availableDoom 3PCThe normality of arriving on Mars base for what starts as a standard tour of duty is a nice counterpoint to the horrors to come. Greet fellow marines, be directed to your unit commander, and then lock and load as something changes your erstwhile colleagues into a collection of rampaging flesh-eaters howling for your blood, and all of a sudden it's business as usual. But not quite. Although the creatures are familiar from earlier Doom episodes, they're now beautifully rendered in all their grisly, empty-eyed, spike-toothed glory, and some have been given the ability to jump unnervingly large distances in their quest to claw you to pieces. Environments have become havens of darkness, from which these monstrosities can leap, making the threat of gruesome death ever present. Nerve-wracking, tense and very big, it's a fitting return for the daddy of all shooters.Nick Gillett&#183;id, £35CatwomanPlaystation2, XBOX, GamecubeThere is one thing we should all be grateful for when sighing into our popcorn over Catwoman's dreadful film outing - on the strength of this there are unlikely to be any emetic Halle Berry Oscar speeches next year. The game of the film follows its celluloid stablemate straight round the U-bend with a painful confusion of awkward controls and blighted viewing angles. Clearly designed to have the honed agility of the Prince of Persia, Catwoman's cack-handed clumsiness is evident from the start - stumbling from high objects, backflipping off ledges and missing obvious jumps are key parts of her repertoire. There's no control of the camera either, which has a mind of its own: a mind that is sadly that of a halfwit. Less Prince of Purr-sia than Cat-astrophe.NG&#183;Electronic Arts, £40
Virgin Radio has trumped Radio 1 by signing a deal with online music service Napster to launch a download chart that will make its debut three days before the BBC broadcasts its first rundown of the best-selling online tracks.Radio 1 announced earlier this month it had signed a deal with the Official Chart Company to broadcast a weekly download chart that will attempt to track the recent upsurge in popularity for online music purchases.But now Virgin Radio has   nipped in ahead of the BBC with its own download chart, which will be launched at 7pm on Sunday August 29.The Virgin Radio chart will be presented by Ben Jones, and will count down the 20 most popular tracks among Napster users that week.John Pearson, the chief executive of Virgin Radio, said the move was the first step in what would become "a much broader partnership".Unlike the BBC chart, which is based on sales of downloaded tracks from a variety of online music stores, the Virgin rundown will be compiled exclusively by Napster and will combine download sales with tracks listened to by the online retailer's subscribers.Napster will also continue to contribute sales figures to the official Radio 1 chart, which will be broadcast at 6pm every Wednesday from September 1 as part of Scott Mills' show.For &#163;9.95 a month, subscribers to Napster - the former renegade of the online music world that was relaunched earlier this year as a legitimate concern - are allowed to listen to songs on their computers as many times as they like, although they pay   more to transfer tracks to other devices.The music industry believes the launch of download radio shows will help revive interest in the charts, with early signs that the audience buying downloads is older than the teenage market that drives the singles chart.Music executives hope that a wider range of artists will be featured, with tracks that stay in the charts longer and move up and down depending on their popularity, rather than because of price-cutting campaigns and marketing muscle.
This week is quiet. Very quiet. In fact, unless you have Xbox Live or enjoy computer chess then, quite frankly, you're best off finishing Doom 3 rather than heading to the shops. The pick of the week, not a hard decision this, is Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Black Arrow.Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Black Arrow (Xbox)This is a standalone expansion pack for the rather fab original Rainbow Six 3. It is a first person shooter that sees you rescuing hostages and dispatching bad guys. What set the original apart was the fantastic online play on Xbox Live and, in particular, the co-op mode that allowed players to team up together. This is back in Black Arrow, and is further improved with support for the new 3.0 version of Live. Essentially this adds clan/team support and makes it easier for players to team up. So, if you have Live, and enjoyed the original, Black Arrow is a must. Assuming, of course, that you can ignore the pro-US imperialistic nonsense that is the plotChessmaster 10th Edition(PC)Does what it says on the tin, namely lets you play, and learn how to play, the world's most popular game. This latest release includes tips from famous players and, apparently, a new clean interface. Still, after ten iterations, a "new clean interface" is probably all they have left to shout about. Still, if you are interested in this then chances are you'll enjoy it.Elsewhere there is the film tie-inThunderbirds (GBA)andPowerdrome (PS2/Xbox), a supposed remake of the ancient Amiga game. Lets face it, Gods, Sensible Soccer, Chaos Engine or Powerdrome. WhichAmiga gamewould you want remade?Unsurprisingly next week looks better with Sudeki and Headhunter 2 due out. I'm playing Sudeki now and initial impressions are good...
A fairly topical article in light of the current physique-fest that's happening in Olympic-land at the moment can be found atCNN.com. It's called "Shows, games get kids off couch" and highlights current and forthcoming games that encourage players to reject sloth in favour of physical fitness. Who knows - the next Paula Radcliffe could currently be unknowingly training for gold by playing theAthens 2004track &amp; field level using a dance mat...Other top games that make you sweat:EyeToy Groove: Mistakenly believe that you are the world's greatest dancer by following the simple Simon Says, and waving your hands in front of the infrared camera like you just don't care.Dancing Stage Euro Mix: There are young whippersnappers who use all of their pocket money to boogey like Travolta down at London's Trocadero and at other locations throughout the UK. It's quite an un-missable sight. The home version allows you to step to the beat of Chumbawumba or get funky to Gloria Gaynor. The European release even has a calorie counter for those who care.Samba de Amigo: For an upper-body workout, shake shake shake the maracas according to the instructions on the screen and feel the burn. Great music too. Soon to be eclipsed by the forthcomingDonkey Konga, which should teach a few of the rhythmically-challenged a few things about drumming.TheExertris exercise bike: This beast is at my gym. It has four simple arcade games on it, including Gems, Orbit, Solitaire and Space Tripper, and the idea is that the further you advance, the harder you have to pedal. It is ingenious. You really don't realise you're in pain until your 20 minutes is up.
"Classroom Web logs, or blogs, many of which got their start in the last school year, are becoming increasingly popular with teachers like Mrs. Dudiak as a forum for expression for students as young as the second-grade level and in almost any subject. In the blogs, students write about how they attacked a tough math problem, post observations about their science experiments or display their latest art projects." reportsThe New York Times."For teachers, blogs are attractive because they require little effort to maintain, unlike more elaborate classroom Web sites, which were once heralded as a boon for teaching. Helped by templates found at sites like tblog.com and movabletype.org, teachers can build a blog or start a new topic in an existing blog by simply typing text into a box and clicking a button. Such ease of use is the primary reason that Peter Grunwald, an education consultant, predicts that blogs will eventually become a more successful teaching tool than Web sites."Comment:Has anyone noticed British schools using blogs in a similar way? Let me know....Update: The article has also been republished in theInternational Herald Tribune.
Business Week Online has an interesting little interview withLinus Torvaldsin its Voices of the Innovators series. There was another one yesterday withJeff Bezosfrom Amazon.com.
At the moment,Yahoo! Search Blogonly has one post, a corporate introduction letter from Jeff Weiner, SVP Yahoo! Search &amp; Marketplace, and a picture of the "campus". Still, it could turn out interesting....
There's an interesting post by Keith Stuart aboutthe 10 trendiest concepts in game designon our companionGamesblog. If your chat-up lines don't currently include references to normal mapping, sandbox gaming, bloom lighting, rag doll physics and party gaming, head on over.
"The world's lightest flying micro-robot has been developed by Japan's Seiko Epson Corporation, reportsXinhua Net."The 12-gram robot resembles a small helicopter and is about 136 millimetres wide, 85 millimetres tall and weighs about 12 grams with a battery, China Radio International reported Thursday. Though still in the development stage, the robot is an advanced model of one released last year. It is remote-controlled and carries a tiny camera that can send images."BBC Newshas more detail, and says: "The FR-II micro robot will be buzzing around at the Emerging Technology Fair, part of the Future Creation Fair, in Tokyo from 27 August."Comment: Epson's press releaseherehas a link to a 40 second Windows Media Video (wmv) clip of the FR-II in action.
Apple is recalling some of the lithium ion rechargable batteries sold between January and August this year for 15-inch aluminium PowerBook G4s. There have been some safety concerns about a fire hazard caused by possible overheating.Click below to see if you are affected - and if you are, what you should do.FROM APPLE: ====== In cooperation with the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) and other international safety authorities, Apple is voluntarily recalling certain lithium ion rechargeable batteries that were sold worldwide from January 2004 through August 2004 for use with 15-inch PowerBook G4 (Aluminum) notebook computers. Apple has initiated an exchange program and will provide you with a new replacement battery, free of charge.Issue - The affected batteries could overheat, posing a fire hazard. Apple received four reports of these batteries overheating. No injuries have been reported. Apple urges you to stop using your battery and to order a replacement battery immediately. If you continue to use your battery, do not leave it unattended and check for signs of overheating.Product - The recalled batteries have the Model Number: A1045 and serial numbers that begin with: HQ404, HQ405, HQ406, HQ407, or HQ408. Batteries with the affected serial numbers contain cells that were manufactured by LG Chem, Ltd. of South Korea during the last week of December 2003 only. The model and serial numbers are located on the label on the bottom of the battery, and can be viewed by removing the battery from the computer. The serial number is printed in black lettering beneath a barcode. The battery is approximately 4.75-inches long by 3.25-inches wide by .75-inches high. The label located on the bottom of the battery reads in part, "15-inch PowerBook G4 Rechargeable Battery" and "Model No: A1045."No other PowerBook or iBook batteries are part of this recall.What to do - To begin the battery exchange process, go to Apple's website at:(http://www.apple.com/support/powerbook/batteryexchange)You will be asked for the serial number of your 15-inch PowerBook G4, the serial number of your PowerBook battery and a ship to address. After serial number verification, a new battery will be shipped to you free of charge. When you receive the replacement battery, please use the same shipping envelope and included prepaid shipping label to return the recalled battery to Apple. If you do not have access to the website listed above, please call Apple at 800-275-2273 between 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., Central time, seven days a week, for further assistance.
A US federal court ruling says peer to peer services are not legally liable for the copyrighted works shared by their users, reportsAP."The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said Grokster Ltd. and StreamCast Networks Inc. were not responsible because they don't have central servers pointing users to copyright material."Nikki Hemming — chief executive officer of Sharman Networks, the Sydney-based company that distributes the immensely popular Kazaa peer-to-peer software — hailed the ruling as 'a fantastic result for the peer-to-peer community. This ruling reinforces similar decisions in other courts around the world that P2P is legal.'"She called on the entertainment industry to 'stop litigating and start partnering with us. Legislation is not the answer, commercialization of P2P is.'"
British gamblers are staking more than three times as much money as they bet every week on the National Lottery on virtual roulette machines in Britain's top five high street betting shop chains. The new touch-screen terminals, introduced less than three years ago, have rapidly attracted a dedicated and growing following, offering punters the best return in the betting shop and a maximum prize of &#163;500 on each spin of the wheel - 20 times the payout cap on traditional fruit machines.An investigation by the Guardian conservatively estimates that more than &#163;290m a week is gambled on about 15,500 machines at Ladbrokes, William Hill, Coral, Stanley Racing and the Tote. This compares with average weekly ticket sales of &#163;88m recorded by Camelot, operator of the National Lottery.With virtual roulette at the "big five" bookmakers generating an annualised turnover estimated at more than &#163;15bn, this new betting craze has become far and away Britain's most popular gambling product almost overnight.And the exact total staked on virtual roulette across the entire industry is likely to be higher still, though it is impossible to estimate how much is being fed into machines in the 2,500 or so betting shops owned by the smaller private operators.The Association of British Bookmakers admits nobody even knows how many of the machines have been installed - only that the number is growing as fast as manufacturers can build them.Customs and Excise figures show a fourfold leap in betting industry turnover to &#163;29.4bn since the first roulette terminals began appearing in 2001, although bookmakers note this figure includes all betting shop products as well as internet and telephone betting.ABB chief executive Tom Kelly said: "Nobody is saying the industry isn't doing well &#91;out of roulette machines&#93; - of course it is. But the turnover figure &#91;cash staked by punters&#93; is extremely misleading."He points out that much of the money   fed into the terminals is won back by punters and recycled through the machines several times. The result is a high turnover figure - although, in reality, at the end of a spell on the virtual roulette wheel punters tend to lose only a fraction of the amount staked. The Guardian nevertheless estimates that punters are losing more than &#163;8m a week to the big five.Exact figures for turnover and punter losses remain closely guarded secrets - although all the big five bookmakers have provided the Guardian with limited guidance on average machine performance, except the state-owned Tote.What is more clear, however, is that the roulette terminals are becoming an increasingly lucrative source of profits. Britain's two largest betting shop chains, Ladbrokes and William Hill, are due to post interim figures in the next three weeks that are expected to suggest profits   from machines have outstripped those made from traditional over the counter bets on horse racing, greyhounds and football. They will have to answer claims that their primary business has essentially switched from sports bookmaking into an amusement arcade operation.William Hill floated at 225p on the stock exchange in June 2002, when it had no roulette machines. Since then it has installed 4,000, and in April it entered the FTSE 100 and hit share price highs above &#163;5. Last month Stanley Racing became the first chain to reveal that profits from its machines had more than doubled to a level exceeding the combined profits generated by all its other betting shop products. Stanley also said longer betting shop hours had been introduced to accommodate punters wanting to gamble on the new terminals. William Hill and Ladbrokes have also extended their opening times.The virulent proliferation of roulette machines is understood to have generated a degree of panic in the Department of Culture Media and Sport, where plans had been afoot for a wholesale deregulation of Britain's casinos, bingo halls and betting shops in the government's imminent gambling bill.Such has been the concern of the culture secretary, Tessa Jowell, about the potential for problem gambling associated with touch-screen roulette that it is thought to have influenced her decision in June to substantially reverse the deregulatory spirit of the draft bill.Surprising and frustrating many within the gaming industry, Ms Jowell ditched the department's proposals to permit a measured rollout of US-style jackpot slot machines into scores of high street casinos in Britain. It is thought she is keen to do more to curb the proliferation of   roulette machines as well, but for the time being has given her backing to a voluntary code of conduct, limiting each betting shop to a maximum of four terminals.The ABB signed up to the code, which came into effect in April, after it became clear that the industry would otherwise find itself in the high court. The government had wanted to ban the new machines, insisting that by law, roulette is not permitted outside licensed casinos. But a regulatory loophole appeared to suggest the outcome of a court case would have been unclear. Bookmakers have been careful to ensure that the virtual spin of the roulette wheel does not technically take place inside the machine but rather in a central computer located many miles away and provided as a service by the machine manufacturer.While this is of no consequence to those placing bets, it allows the bookmakers to advance the argument that their machines are not gaming machines - which are prohibited in betting shops - but "fixed odds betting terminals", simply taking bets on an event which is happening off the betting shop premises.If this sounds like a sophist's argument, it has nevertheless been enough to dissuade Ms Jowell from challenging the bookmakers in court. Her hands temporarily tied, she has told bookmakers their roulette terminals are "on probation".Ironically, the proliferation of virtual roulette was sparked by a change in betting duty introduced by Gordon Brown in October 2001. The decision to tax bookmakers' gross profit and abolish the unpopular duty on bets staked was welcomed by punters, but few within the Treasury understood they were opening the door to a new generation of unregulated gambling machines attracting bets of more than &#163;15bn a year.Meanwhile, few have been busier tapping the seemingly insatiable appetite for virtual roulette than Peter Jones, the chairman of the state-owned Tote. Despite being established 75 years ago as the monopoly operator of pool bets, the Tote has doubled its betting shop estate in the past four years to 450 and has set a target to install 1,200 machines.Mr Jones argues the Tote's ties to government have not made its installation of roulette machines contentious. A signatory to the industry code of conduct, he insists this is regulation enough to ensure a responsible approach to the potential risks associated with problem gambling.With the privatisation of the Tote expected early next year, many will want to see the value of its new roulette machines fully reflected in the price. So far, the Tote is keeping the figures close to its chest.
TimesEditorial, August 19"Googling has never seemed less fun. Shares in the search engine were ... approved for trading &#91;yesterday&#93;, but there are complications. It seems the company's previously infallible management has made a few mistakes ..."Floating an initial public offering (IPO) in the unlucky middle of the week, rather than a Monday or Friday, was a beginner's error. Not registering shares distributed to employees with regulators - such a simple thing - is not bad, but abysmal luck. And the inauspicious interview they gave to Playboy magazine prior to the IPO? They might as well have walked back and forth under a ladder smashing mirrors while Mercury was retrograde. No wonder the offer price range has been slashed from $108-$135 &#91;&#163;59-&#163;74&#93; to $85-$95 &#91;&#163;47-&#163;52&#93; a share."Neil CollinsDaily Telegraph, August 19"When Google was a private business, the founders could be as off-the-wall as they liked ... Larry Page and Sergey Brin have just discovered that companies that go public must follow certain rules. The rules are often quite daft but in America, land of lawyers and litigants, giving interviews to Playboy during a mandatory 'quiet period' is not clever ..."Google is a very clever business, but the speed with which it established itself as the world's No 1 search engine suggests that another bright idea could quickly knock it off its perch. That's an uncomfortable thought for a business which, even at the bottom of its cut-price offer range, is considered more valuable than General Motors."Floyd NorrisNew York Times, August 19"The Google offering attracted far more attention than an ordinary stock sale, in part because of the phenomenal success of its internet search engine. That engine has come to dominate the market since the company was founded in 1998 ..."Another reason for the attention was that the company tried to reinvent the way new stock issues are priced, using a complicated Dutch auction open to any American investor. That auction was designed to set the market price ... But the fact the company felt compelled to cut the price range ... was a public embarrassment that may deter other companies from following Google's lead when they go public."Financial TimesEditorial, August 19"Google's cut in both the price and the number of shares for sale in its IPO have given critics of the auction system a wonderful opportunity for Schadenfreude. Far from signalling the auction's failure, however, yesterday's developments show the sales process worked as intended - by adapting the offer price to demand ..."Nor is the price cut ... evidence of failure. The original $108-$135 range set on July 26 was ambitious. The auction process identified weakness in demand and allowed the IPO to proceed ... There are many reasons for the price cut, but the auction is not among them. It has done its job, and others should not be deterred from emulating it."Pascal RicheLib&#233;ration, France August 19"With their characteristic mixture of bravado and naivety, the founders of Google believed they could teach Wall Street a lesson. They gave the cold shoulder to the big investment banks (by conducting an auction), packed their official documents with bombastic promises of changing the world and thoughtlessly gave that interview to Playboy ..."Admittedly, it is this same mixture of bravado and naivety that has made Google such a success ... This confidence - or arrogance - allowed the company to succeed in the world of internet start-ups. Now that Google is playing with the big boys ... could this become a handicap? Silicon Valley is strewn with the corpses of companies that believed themselves to be indestructible."
Unlawful aggressorAnyone (not just the extreme right) who uses the web to harass or threaten people should be dealt with severely by law enforcement agencies (Fear and loathing, August 12).I run a website on the Irish language. You would think this was a fairly innocuous subject. However, for over a year I've been targeted by a lone nutcase who is fanatically opposed to the Irish language.A couple of months ago, he tried to get hold of my password by hacking into my ISP's website. When that failed, he had pornography sent to my home. Despite the fact he had committed two criminal offences, the police wouldn't even reply to my demands for action. My ISP wasn't much help either.Name withheldEasy for someDave Birch has demonstrated a good understanding of arithmetic, but shows a narrow, technocratic view of the world (Second Sight, August 12). Freeview boxes, at present, are nowhere near as simple and easy to use as an analogue TV set.Users of advanced &#91;features&#93; have enough problems trying to master a TV and a VCR at present. Just try explaining to a non-technical user how to timer-record a TV programme on a digital channel using an analogue TV set. The lack of Primary Domain Controller (PDC) and the extra complexity of interaction between TV, VCR and Freeview box means there are even more ways of getting it wrong than at present. The user manuals are incomplete and inconsistent.No doubt Dave Birch could do all this with ease, but lots of ordinary users will find it error prone and difficult. Why should the government make their life harder?David J JonesKnutsfordCostly conversionDavid Birch's article opens up many issues on the cost of analogue conversion to digital. However, his funding proposals do not go far enough to compensate analogue refuseniks or to induce many of them to switch.Many housing estates are in areas of deprivation and certainly underserved for digital access by local councils or landlords. My own is unable to afford even the digital re-cabling of existing analogue cables to what are some digital aerials (old Channel 5) on our estate. Affordable free-to-air digital TV is a chimera for us.Both Birch and the government underestimate the costs. This is a problem that requires bottom up, practical analysis, serious funding to pay for digital conversion - for example, of communal aerial cabling systems - and government direction to get the job done.John BertinLondonSize mattersLaurie White (Feedback, August 12) remarks about the readability of screens. I'm short-sighted, and have to take my glasses off every time I use my mobile. But my real gripe is with the mouse. All these claims about ergonomic designs concentrate on shape. How about a range in different sizes, like gloves? I have a large hand which spans almost an octave and a half on a piano keyboard. To use a mouse, my hand is cramped to almost half its natural width, with no support. I guess a young child feels awkward stretching around the same object. No wonder teenagers seem to be at an advantage.Robert SausmanHastingsGet the maxAs a keen private user of eBay, I can share David Williams' frustration with the proliferation of professional traders on the system (Feedback, August 12). However, I take issue with his complaint about professionals putting in "guaranteed winning bids" in the last few seconds of an auction (a tactic described as sniping).Unlike traditional auctions, it isn't the final bid that wins an eBay auction, but the highest bid. If he places a "maximum bid" then the system will automatically bid by proxy up to his maximum. Should his bid be lower than the eventual winner, he can't cry foul just because the bid (whether from a trader or an ordinary user) came late - it's simply that the winning bidder valued the item more highly than he did..Adrian LangfordStratford-upon-AvonBristol innovationYour articleWi-Fi in the West(August 12) was very interesting for our organisation, but we were a little surprised that the work we have been doing in the east of Bristol over the last two years was not mentioned.Bristol Wireless is a community-owned and democratically controlled not-for-profit cooperative whose main aim is to develop a series of internet access hotspots to local people where they have previously been "digitally challenged". We have rolled out our wireless network covering over a square mile of east Bristol using recycled and donated equipment and open source software. We have a range of projects on the go - with local schools, supported residential accommodation, refugee groups to name some - and all done with volunteer effort and little to no funding.Many of our members think it unlikely the council would be the Wi-Fi innovator it is without the example of our project in the city.Sean Kenny
National treasuresThe National Archives in Kew has relaunched its website, claiming that it's now even easier for people to research their family history. The site offers access to the 1901 census, British military records, and more than 1m wills. The National Archives combines the collections of the Public Record Office and the Historic Manuscripts Commission, and its catalogue ranges from Domesday Book images to aerial photographs of the results of the Dambusters raid.www.nationalarchives.gov.ukTall storiesIf you like tall buildings, then you will probably like the exhibition at The Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) in New York. It's a Flash site and not designed to be easy to use, but it makes enough comparisons between 25 tall buildings to maintain interest. These tall buildings are not all skyscrapers, not all in New York, and not all of them have been built. One of particular interest is Renzo Piano's 1,016-foot London Bridge Tower.http://moma.org/exhibitions/2004/ tallbuildingsZen enough?If you hate tall buildings, then you might well like Japanese gardens. If so, you will love the Bowdoin College website, which not only has nice pictures but also has a mind-boggling amount of information about them. The site has been expanded to cover eight more gardens, mostly around Kyoto, and often in Zen monasteries. The site can be a little slow, but take that as an opportunity for contemplation. Bowdoin College is in Brunswick, about 120 miles from Boston.http://academic.bowdoin.edu/zenSearch rocketIceRocket is an oddly-named Google-like search engine that tends to deliver somewhat strange results. It is a meta-search engine, so it searches other search engines, but it seems to put a different spin on the results. IceRocket also has three more interesting features. First, it offers a Quick View button that displays the target site in the results page; second, it makes a clickable list of your searches; and third, it lets you search by email. This may be handy if you are using a mobile phone or PDA.IceRocket also has a Find A Friend feature. If you are a man or woman seeking similar in one of the US states, it fetches details and mug shots from sites such as SinglesNet, Mingles, HotOrNot and Face The Jury. Music search and a phone pics section are among the features still to come.www.icerocket.comUK unoThe UK also has a new meta-search engine called Infouno or, to pronounce it properly, Info U know. This offers a Kids Search section, and also lets you use a search folder to save your past searches. Its focus is on UK sites, which could be useful. Infouno is currently in a public beta test phase, so it is soliciting feedback, and other features are still to come. However, if you like the idea of country-specific search engines, Phil Bradley lists hundreds from Abkhazia to Zimbabwe, including 110 for the UK.www.infouno.comwww.philb.com/countryse.htmwww.philb.com/countryse.htmFace itEver fancied playing up front for Manchester United? If your face fits, maybe you can, at least in a fictional football game. The problem with games that let you play season after season is that the players grow old and retire, and have to be replaced with new ones. But these fictional "regenerated" players still need authentic looking mug shots, and that's where you come in. Send a suitable snap to Sports Interactive, the original developer of Championship Manager, and you could get a starring role in its next game, Football Manager 2005. Of course, you could also end up with stats that mean you play like a wally ... and if you are over 22, then you are destined for a staff job, perhaps portraying a wizened old scout.www.sigames.com/faceinthegameNew &amp; notedJohn Lewis redesignedwww.johnlewis.comBadly drawn catwww.tiddles.co.ukTiger cub camhttp://nationalzoo.si.edu/Animals/GreatCatsSix of the best:Google sitesGoogle IPOwww.ipo.google.comGooglewatchwww.google-watch.orgThat Playboy interviewwww.sec.gov/ArchivesThe unofficial Google webloghttp://google.weblogsinc.comUnofficial Google Directorywww.google-directory.co.ukGoogle logoswww.logoogle.com
Even though the networks are hyping their music download to mobile phone services, few handsets have either the speakers or stereo outputs for earphones to do the music justice.One model that does have music fans in mind is the Motorola E-398, now available to T-Mobile's pay- as-you-go customers for &#163;200. Its headline feature is its powerful stereo speakers that deliver an exciting and loud performance.Music is transferred to the phone via T-Mobile's Music Jukebox downloads or through the E-398's Bluetooth connection, then stored on either the phone's internal memory or on its TransFlash storage card.The phone works well, too, with Motorola's easy-to-use interface controlled by a mini joystick and keys that won't even tax those with larger digits. Everything else on the phone is reasonable rather than great, from the OK-ish images taken by the phone's Video Graphics Array (VGA) camera to its reasonably high resolution 64K colour screen.www.t-mobile.co.uk
Back in March, Sharp and Vodafone revolutionised the camera phone market by delivering the GX30 handset. Whereas previous camera phones had only taken images of limited resolution, the GX30 took one megapixel snaps, which the company promised would be good enough to print out.Several months on and there are currently a pair of one megapixel camera phones on sale in the UK - the other is the Nokia 7610 - with new models from Samsung (SGH-P730), Sony Ericsson (S700i) and Motorola (MPx220) coming soon.Online has tested three of the models: the Sharp, Nokia and Samsung. Even though the images they took were a huge leap forward, they still can't rival even basic digital camerasArguably the best of the trio is the Nokia 7610 which delivers sharp images that boast a good colour balance. However, there is still a notable amount of picture noise, and each image has a "digitised" feel reminiscent of the early digital cameras. Given good conditions, the Sharp GX30 also takes pretty good snaps. However, users have to hold the phone steady to avoid blur. Finally, the Samsung SGH-P730 delivers images only marginally better than a standard camera phone.The problem for these pioneering handsets is that they too will soon be outdated. "We expect to see two megapixel camera phones on the market after Christmas, with three megapixels coming later in 2005," says Jonathan Jowitt, head of enhanced multimedia development, Orange UK.Bearing in mind that not too long ago many consumers were happy with the snaps taken by two megapixel digital camera, does this sound the death knell for the digital camera market?Not surprisingly, the camera manufacturers see things differently. "People mistakenly believe that mega pixels mean quality. They don't," argues Will Rolls, marketing manager, consumer products, Fujifilm. "They mean a bigger-sized image, but not a quality one." Rolls cites the size of a camera phone, which isn't large enough to accommodate an adequate flash, optical zoom or high-quality image processing, as its main weakness.Richard Dorman, UK marketing manager for Sony Ericsson, agrees that there will still be a gulf between the output of camera phones and cameras. "However the best camera is the one that's always with you," he says. "And for ease of use and instant images, you won't be able to beat the camera phone."
Project problemsUK companies are dissatisfied with today's project management and professional services automation (PSA) packages, forcing many to persist with manual methods of tracking progress, skills and expenses. According to a report from PMP Research, manual processes are used by 70% of companies to record project expenses, and around half the sample do their time recording by hand. More than three-quarters of the group agreed that it is hard to measure the impact or benefit of adopting project management software. The poll was taken across a range of professional and in-house services providers, split between the manufacturing and financial services sectors.Police lock-upThe City of London Police estimates that around 300 laptops are stolen in the UK each day, and that means its laptops are also at risk. This has prompted measures to protect sensitive police information on laptops that could be stolen. Gary Brailsford, information manager for the London Police Technology Unit, has adopted Secure Technology's KeyDrive II from Avanquest after the UK Cyber Crime Team failed to break the encryption. KeyDrive uses a USB key, or dongle, to authenticate a laptop user, and encrypts data stored on part of the hard drive.www.keydrive2.com/keydrivepro.htmlAddress codeA specification for addressing web services is awaiting ratification by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). The suggested WS-Addressing standard has been co-developed by BEA Systems, IBM, Microsoft, SAP and Sun Microsystems, to underpin other key elements for web service provision. WS-A will provide a standard method of identifying and exchanging messages between multiple endpoints. Formalising the communications structure will pave the way for the adoption of other web services projects, such as reliable messaging, federation and atomic transaction. These will be   passed to the W3C for consideration, following the adoption of WS-Addressing, to help provide a secure, transaction-based, asynchronous and reliable web services framework..Net mobilityStryon is reversing Microsoft's strategy by providing a tool to migrate .Net web services and applications to Java. Microsoft provides Visual J#. net and J++ to convert Java programs to .Net, but has nothing to move code the other way. Stryon's iNet changes this by converting the intermediate language (common code produced by all Visual Studio development languages) into Java code. iNet also converts .Net class libraries, such as XML and ASP, enabling the code to run on Mac OS, Unix and Linux, and on application servers from BEA, IBM etc. The converted code can also be run on Windows systems using a Java Virtual Machine.&lt;A HREF="http://www.stryon.com/products.asp?s=4""&gt;www.stryon.com/productsSecond opinionThe NHS National Programme for IT (NPfIT) is broadening its approach to supply chain management. The group is already taking advice from one analyst group, Ovum, and has now added Gartner to provide opportunities for companies not already involved in the &#163;6bn project. Gartner will also be involved in helping the NPfIT to achieve best practice by allowing access to its researchers and reports worldwide. The analyst firm will run a number of workshops to assist National Programme executives to understand key issues, such as achieving value for money from IT, technology adoption and change management, application integration, and mobile and wireless technologies.www.npfit.nhs.ukExchanging eurosLuxembourg's European commissioner, Viviane Reding, last week assumed responsibility for the European Commission's Information Society division following a reshuffle. Reding is one of just three current commissioners who will continue after November 1 when the changes become effective. Her current responsibilities include education and culture. Other new commissioners affecting IT include the incoming internal market commissioner, Irish finance minister Charlie McCreevy. Mario Monti, who as competition commissioner fined Microsoft &euro;500m, will be replaced by Neelie Kroes of the Netherlands.Office viewIntel is holding a competition to find the best office view in Britain. The main prize is a trip in a hot-air balloon and a Centrino-based Toshiba notebook PC. Send your entry toIntelOfficeView@redconsultancy.com.
AudioOne for the roadGriffin Technology has unveiled the Road Trip, which it is billing as a total in-car solution for the Apple iPod and iPod mini. Scheduled to launch in the US on September 1, the $79 (&#163;43) device features a transmitter similar to the company's iTrip that broadcasts audio from the player to nearby FM radios. The RoadTrip also includes a cradle for the iPod/iPod mini and an adaptor that plugs into a car's cigarette lighter to power the player.The FM transmitter can be removed from the cradle and connected to a PC or Mac, to transmit music from a computer to radios around a home. In spite of their popularity, FM transmitters are prohibited in the UK under the Wireless Telegraphy Act of 1949.www.griffintechnology.comMobile phonesNEC addition3G mobile phone network 3 has added NEC's e228 handset to its product portfolio. Available exclusively via the company's Threepay pay-as-you-go tariff, the e228 is an upright chocolate bar-style phone compatible with 3's core applications of person-to-person video calling and sports and music video downloads. The &#163;75 handset also features an MP3 music player, email, a speaker phone and a 64K   colour screen. Images and downloads can be either stored in its 19MB internal memory or on a Sony Memory Stick Duo card. The phone has a standby time of 93 hours and talk time of 128 minutes.www.three.co.ukVideo playersImage consciousUK accessory specialist Peripheral Corner is set to take on Microsoft/Creative and Archos in the hard disk-based   personal video player/recorder market. The NHJ-MPM 201/2, which is available with either a 60GB (&#163;372.48) or 30GB (&#163;317.35) hard disk is the first in the market to feature a docking cradle with an integrated TV tuner. Users connect the cradle to an aerial, and they can then use the NHJ-MPM 202 to view programmes on its 3.5in screen or record them on to the hard disk. The device can also archive DVDs and VHS videotapes, converting the footage into MPeg4. Other facilities include compatibility with MP3s and JPegs and a Secure Digital/CompactFlash card slot.www.peripheralcorner.co.ukDigital camerasData baseA consortium of Taiwanese firms in partnership with the country's Industrial Technology Research Institute is lining up a storage card for digital cameras   and music players that can accommodate more data and boasts faster transfer speeds than its rivals.Due to be unveiled at the Taipei International Electronics Show (Taitronics) on October 8, the card will be able to transfer 120MB of data per second, 10 times faster than Secure Digital (SD) cards, and will have a capacity of up to two terabytes (TB). Mass production of the card, which includes USB 2.0 compatibility, is slated for early 2005. A version of the card that will enable consumers to add extra functions to their devices is also being developed.www.itri.org.tw/engBroadbandNo outer limitsAs our feature on rural broadband explores, homeowners more than 6km away from the nearest telephone exchange have often been sacrificed for more urban areas.But yesterday BT announced it will scrap distance limits after tests showed most of the country's far-flung households can get broadband without an engineer needing to visit. One in five households beyond the old limit will still need to arrange installation, but there will be now be no call-out charge.Customers in remote parts of the UK will then be able to choose from more than 150 ISPs offering 512 kbps broadband, though BT is not yet able to provide its 1Mbps service. BT reckons that scrapping its distance limits will make 99.8% of all the country's phone lines broadband-enabled - putting it level with good quality TV reception.
Is your company's IT strategy in line with its business strategy, and if not, who is responsible? This is the challenge now facing many IT managers, who used to focus on technology, and now have to think about governance across the whole business.IT governance is a huge task, and focuses on five areas: strategic alignment, value delivery, performance management, resource management, and risk management. It involves more than technology: it's about managing people and roles to make sure that business processes are managed appropriately. It is a process that starts with the design and development of a project, and should carry on throughout its life. It means that IT management teams need to understand the business processes they help deliver, and the roles of the team members involved with each system and service.One approach - though perhaps only suited to the largest businesses - is to define an overall enterprise architecture, and set up a committee or "architecture council" to make sure that all new projects fit in with both the business' strategy and its planned technical foundations. An architecture council, made up of senior busi ness analysts and IT architects, is a place where the languages of business and IT meet, and both cultures can agree on a single message.The current generation of development tools allows architects to define standards for their development teams, but it's the next generation of tools that have taken the governance lesson to heart. One example is Microsoft's forthcoming Visual Studio 2005 Team System.One of the issues facing IT departments is the number of people involved in a project: business analysts, architects, operations, testers and, of course, developers. Team System is designed to reduce the complexity of the development process by bringing team members into a single collaboration and communications   framework. A single portal links all the members of a project team, while familiar tools allow everyone from a project manager to the operations team to work together.Methodologies are an important part of a well-governed development project, whether they're complex Prince-driven systems (the UK government approach named from PRojects IN a Controlled Environment), or streamlined agile methodologies such as extreme programming. Team System is designed to make sure that all the requirements of the chosen methodology are used.The package will ship with a methodology based on Microsoft's own Solutions Framework, but it's possible to build your own methodologies into the package, including   coding and testing standards. A key feature is work item tracking. This allows architects and analysts to define just what needs to be done before any code can be checked into a development repository. It's not just code tests that are required: project documentation, or review cycles for architecture and project planning work also need to be tracked.IT governance is also about implementing appropriate tools to manage your systems. The right management tools should help teams deliver flexible responses to rapid changes in business circumstances.Process-based system management such as BMC's Business Server Management tools mean that businesses can align systems management priorities with business objectives.   For example, it's important to make sure that the servers that add the most value to your business operations have the highest priority, and that IT is ready to add more capacity when it is needed.Other tools help manage the outside-facing systems, making sure that web servers are available at all times. But management isn't just about ensuring availability. The DVLA is using Tibco's BPM solutions to manage its systems, to help it respond to freedom of information requests, and to ensure data protection compliance.It's also important to ensure the integrity of business information. Too many organisations have too many pools of information, often duplicating content. It's difficult to know where the most relevant piece of information resides, and just what to trust. Now businesses are starting to consolidate data, make sure it is clean, and define master sources for all their key information.Another side of the governance equation is making sure that users behave appropriately online, and avoid any resulting entanglements with the law. The latest security tools help by monitoring network connections, which allow administrators to identify security breaches and violations of company policy and regulations. Other tools monitor email, seeking to ensure regulatory compliance.Finally, IT governance is about more than being on top of what the business systems are doing, and who's doing what in the IT department. It's about developing processes that are in tune with the business needs, so that IT systems deliver services to the business in a way that's possible to measure the value they add. The problems are as much about people and processes as they are about tools - and it's an area where there's unlikely ever to be a one-stop solution.
Service Pack 2 for XP is far more than the usual collection of updates and bug fixes: it's a major update to Windows XP, designed to improve security, with new features and updated core system binaries. It could all add up to a 272MB download, depending on how many updates you've already made to your system. Do you want to install something that will change your system that dramatically?While it's rash to make any predictions about security, Microsoft has done more than just patch holes this time. Group manager Rebecca Norlander explains: "We decided we needed to think differently about security. How could we turn this into a chess game where we were able to set up a strategy that would help us long term, cut down on the number of immediate exploits, or at least give us more time to patch or fix the software or the holes that are found with safeguards in place?"Making big changes to email and browsing security, enabling hardware memory protection, and blocking more network attacks should protect PCs without relying on new anti-virus signatures or updates to protect against specific exploits. For example, the security features in SP2 block the Bagle virus with two separate warnings. But the changes mean that software that uses the old, less secure, configuration options can have problems with SP2: this is the first time Microsoft has made security more of a priority than backwards compatibility.Microsoft has been urging software developers to test their programs with pre-release versions of SP2, to find out if they need changes. As Paul Randle, the UK Windows client product manager, puts it: "Some ISVs have been pro-active, others less so:   people move at different paces."There have been rumours that some of the delay in shipping SP2 was down to software companies asking for more time to make changes. Microsoft hasn't found any major applications that have problems, and few users are reporting trouble. But some programs will need updates, and others will need some settings changed within Windows. Microsoft's website lists about 200 programs, including Microsoft applications and third-party software, that need you to configure the Windows Firewall (which is now switched on by default) to work the way they used to. The list includes web servers, remote desktops, file-sharing applications (including sending files via instant messaging), FTP clients, multimedia streaming software, email notifications, systems management applications (including anti-virus servers that update desktop PCs), and multi-player games. In some cases - such as Visual Studio.net and Systems Management Server 2003 - you will have to open ports in the firewall to enable options such as remote debugging.Web-based applications that use pop-ups will have them blocked by Internet Explorer. Remote desktop connections are blocked by default, even if the PC was configured to allow them before. The messenger service (rarely used for anything except pop-up ads) is turned off. And while File and Printer Sharing is enabled by default on PCs that are members of a domain, it's off by default if they're in a workgroup. It's easy to configure all the options via Group Policy, once you know which options you need.The new Security Centre in SP2 uses Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) to keep track of whether the Windows Firewall is on, whether your antivirus software is up to date, and when you last scanned your system. Most anti-virus software will need an update to provide this information, and Norton has an update for Norton AntiVirus, Norton SystemWorks, Norton Personal Firewall, and Norton Internet Security that's available via LiveUpdate.On a PC that is connected to a domain, you get a different view of the Security Centre, without the   colour-coded alerts or the option to change update, firewall and anti-virus settings.That some programs run into problems with SP2 may be good news for business users. DivX codecs (including DivX Pro and Dr DivX) don't work and don't show up in the list of available video formats, because they're writing into areas of screen memory that are covered by the Data Execution Prevention feature designed to protect against buffer overruns. Peer-to-peer file sharing tools such as BitTorrent are affected by the new limit on incomplete TCP connections, which is there to stop flood attacks. If the program tries to open more than 10 connections that don't receive the final acknowledgement from the machine they're connecting to, it will have to wait until one of them times out.But if blocking notorious spyware and bandwidth-filling peer-to-peer software is a welcome side effect, make sure aggravated users don't follow the instructions that are being circulated for disabling Data Execu tion Prevention or increasing the connection limit to 50.A few users have found that SP2 can slow their machines, perhaps because it turns services back on that might have been disabled, or because it leaves some hard drives heavily fragmented. (If so, defragmenting the drive will speed it up again.) Most reports are that Windows runs faster. This is a side effect of recompiling the code with the latest optimising compiler for security reasons.There are some minor issues with hardware. You need to uninstall any existing third-party Bluetooth configuration tools before installing SP2 and then repair your Bluetooth devices. There also seem to be problems with the FireWire 800 drivers included with SP2, which downgrade the speed of the FireWire port; re-installing older drivers should fix that problem.Randle points out that despite the changes you may need to make, SP2 is designed to make life easier for IT managers. "Our design goals were: raising the level of security; and mak ing that manageable. All the options can be configured and managed through Active Directory and policy, and a lot of them can be scripted."You can also deploy pre-configured versions of SP2 via SMS or Software Update Services, although not all pre-release versions of SP2 can be upgraded, so allow time for uninstalling and reinstalling on test systems.Randle is confident that businesses will find it worthwhile. "There's work to be done with SP2 for enterprise customers, but for the benefits you get, it's worth that work."Next week, XP Pro PCs that receive Automatic Updates will start downloading SP2 in the background. You can block that while you plan your deployment by changing a Registry key or a Group Policy setting, and there's a tool to do that on the Microsoft download site. But the Registry key fix will only work until December 14: after that, any PCs using Automatic Updates will download SP2 anyway.But unless a major security hole shows up in SP2, you won't want to wait that long.
Today, as never before, you can capture your life and share it with your friends and family. Camera phones, media players with built-in microphones, portable storage and blogging software enable you to record whatever happens, while cheap hard drives mean you can keep it forever. All this adds up to what theTrendwatching.comwebsite reckons is an emerging megatrend called "life caching"."Why do we think this trend is ready to take off? Well, the necessary enablers are now all in place: required hardware and software are ubiquitous, there's ample availability of affordable storage space, blogging mentality is hitting the masses, and some of the major 'new economy' brands are getting in on the game, promising mass life-caching products at mass prices," says the site.Life caching is already explicit in Show Your World, the US advertising for Samsung camera phones, cited by Trendwatching. The campaign says that capturing images and turning them into mini-movies is "the most vibrant way to capture and share life experiences with family and friends".Of course, life caching is not a new idea, as Egypt's pyramids show. Generations of people have kept diaries, scrapbooks and photo albums. US scientist Vannevar Bush envisaged keeping everything in a Memex machine, in a famous essay published in the July 1945 issue of Atlantic Monthly. And in 1992, usability guru Don Norman wrote about everyone having a personal Teddy: you would get it when you were two or three years old, and it would store all the experiences you ever had.But four things have brought these futuristic visions much closer to   reality. First, new devices such as camera phones and digital recorders have made it much easier to record your life. Second, the use of digital media has allowed all the different types of record to be combined instead of stored separately. Third, the cost of disk storage has fallen to the point where many PC users can afford the terabyte or two of storage needed to keep everything. Finally, the internet has made it easy to share the results.Digitisation is a huge advance. Many families have photos on anything from 35mm slides to old glass plates. If they have movies, they could be on 8mm film or VHS. If they have music or conversations, they are probably on different formats of cassette tape. All of these are incompatible, and don't connect very well to paper records such as diaries. But they can all be digitised and stored using the same software on the same hard drive, then linked together.A Tablet PC running OneNote software and Microsoft's Windows XP Tablet PC edition is one way to do this. You can take handwritten notes on screen, using a stylus, and have them synchronised with a recording taken using the built-in microphone. Photos can be uploaded from a digital camera and pasted in later. A Tablet PC is far too cumbersome for capturing life on the move, but the same sort of facilities could soon reach personal organisers and smart phones.For speed and convenience, the camera phone has already become the main driver for the life caching megatrend. At the moment, the pictures are not very good quality, but they are getting better, and it is usually fairly easy to upload the images to a blog (hence "moblogging") or email them to friends.Nokia's Christian Lindholm has   captured this trend perfectly with Lifeblog software, first discussed inOnline on March 11. Load the Lifeblog software on to a PC, connect up a Nokia 7610 phone, and Lifeblog transfers the pictures and puts them into a timeline with tags to record when and where they were taken.Lindholm says: "When this was a research project at Nokia six years ago, it was called 'memory prosthesis', and ironically, that's how I'm using it. I take a picture when I meet someone, and write a little note about them. So I'm using my Lifeblog as a sort of personal information manager where I'm not starting from a person's name or phone number. I'm optimistic that later I'll be able to remember something so I can search for them!"The fact that Lifeblog becomes a receptacle for personal and family information is the reason it isn't, despite the name, blogging software. "Obviously, the name is mandating us to move in that direction," says Lindholm, "and we've done a sepa rate trial to validate mobile blogging using the Atom protocol: that's what I've been using to blog to my own site. The aim is to integrate the 'blog out of Lifeblog' functionality in the foreseeable future. But at the moment, my view is that the online archive is a subset of your total life."Your personal diary and photo album almost certainly contain things you wouldn't want to put on the web for everyone to see.Lindholm also reckons that Google's purchase of Picasa and its photo album software validates Nokia's strategy, "which is that you need to have a PC-based front end for storage and an online presence for sharing. But I think our concept is just better than &#91;grid-based&#93; Picasa because it is column-based," he says. "Lifeblog has a classic newspaper or book layout, so it is very easy to read."Microsoft Research has also been working on life caching software for many years with a project called MyLifeBits, headed by one of the   world's leading computer scientists, Gordon Bell. This project involves digitising and searching everything you have ever said, read, seen or heard. Darpa, America's defence research agency, also has a Lifelog project, and the UK's Computing Research Committee has proposed Memories for Life as one of its "grand challenges for computing science".But one of the drawbacks with life caching is that it requires effort. Lyndsay Williams, at the Microsoft Research lab in Cambridge, has a different approach, which is to make the recording automatic. She's developing what she calls "a black box data recorder for the human body".Williams' latest prototype is the SenseCam 4, which can be worn as a pendant or badge, and could be made even smaller if it was converted into a product. Wear a SenseCam and it automatically takes photographs of things that happen in your life. "If you just walk into a different room, it senses the transi tion and takes a photograph," says Williams. "It's triggered by things like acceleration and light-level changes. If someone stands in front of you, it will sense the heat from them and capture an image." She is also trying other inputs, such as a heart-rate sensor and GPS satellite location, and using low-power wireless to send sense data straight to her PC. "There's a lot more you can do, but I wanted to build something real, that you could wear and get experimental data from."Of course, not all the devices have to fit in a pendant, and Williams is one of the researchers credited with the recent Microsoft patent on using the human body as a data and power network.The SenseCam can take around 2,000 wide-angle pictures a day, and these are best viewed as mini-movies - compressed and played back fast. You can download a short example from a BBC News report to see how well it works as a reminder. "You can have a rewind of your entire day in about three minutes," says Williams."The main idea that people like is for tourism applications, because it's passive capture: you can enjoy yourself and record all the interesting things you see, even when you can't be bothered to take a picture," she says. "We're trying it this week at the Edinburgh Festival. It works for sport, as well."The idea also has more serious uses. "We demonstrated the SenseCam to people at Addenbrookes hospital in Cambridge, and they said it would be particularly useful for the partner of somebody who had very bad memory problems," says Williams. "It would also be useful for people who   have to take their medicine at certain times and forget to do so: the SenseCam would provide a record."All this raises privacy issues already familiar from the use of camera phones and CCTV surveillance cameras. With only 14 examples of the prototype to worry about, the SenseCam has not aroused concern, but people don't seem to object to it. "All the people who have spoken to me about it see the huge benefits," says Williams. "For example, if you have a car accident or come off your bike, you've got a record, and it could mean you get more timely medical treatment."In any case, this is the way the world is going. "The SenseCam is part of a larger program in ubiquitous computing at the lab in Cambridge," says Ken Wood, from Microsoft's new Interactive Systems research group. "We're building up general expertise in this area, with input from psychologists and sociologists as well as computer scientists, so that we build things that enhance everyday life. We're thinking of wearable and embedded computational agents in everyday items. The father of ubiquitous computing is Mark Weiser, and his idea was that computers gradually become invisible. You don't have to interact with them, you interact with what they are doing.""Ultimately, life caching is not just your life, it's what's happening in your home," says Paul Jackson, a senior analyst with Forrester research in Amsterdam. "Your pet-cams and temperature monitors and all the sensors connected to your body can all add to this."You may never lose your car keys again.Trendwatchingwww.trendwatching.com/trends/LIFE_CACHING.htmNokia Lifeblogwww.nokia.com/lifeblogThe Teddyhttp://www.jnd.org/TurnSignals/TS-TheTeddy.html
Mobile phones get smaller and lighter every year. With the part count for the average mobile going down by 20-30% every year, a phone bought five years ago now looks as old-fashioned as a 1950s wireless. But will mobile phones eventually be so small that they do not even look like mobile phones?Clues can be found in Asia, where many of the world's most technologically advanced firms are based. Japanese and Korean customers have been unusually receptive to technological innovations. Consequently, firms use the Asian market as a test bed for new ideas.Mobile manufacturers have spotted the logical outcome of the ever-shrinking phone - a unit that can be worn rather than carried. A wearable phone is easier to use, and less likely to be lost or stolen. In Japan, says Michael King, a principal analyst   with Gartner, manufacturers are beginning to produce "feminine-focused" phones using materials such as diamond and ruby bezels.Last year, two firms tried to cash in by launching wristwatch models. NTT DoCoMo's Wristomo phone, manufactured by Seiko and offering email and web browser functionality, sold out its initial run of 1,000   within 10 minutes of going on sale. Samsung's equivalent, touted as the world's first "Dick Tracy phone", launched last year offering GPRS, one and a half hours of continuous talk time, voice-activated dialling and a built-in phone book. It supported Wap and Bluetooth, and weighed less than 80 grams.But it seems unlikely that wristwatch phones will be hitting the UK any time soon - NTT DoCoMo stopped making the Wristomo after interest tailed off, and last year's promised European launch of Samsung's phone never happened.The problem manufacturers face is the tension between people's desire for smaller phones and their hunger for greater functionality. A phone with a camera, PDA functionality and web access is never going to be small enough to wear. In Japan, says King, there has even been a reversal of the trend for miniaturisation, with consumers preferrring bigger phones   with larger screens and multiple LCDs. He argues that no solution will satisfy everyone.The answer could lie in Bluetooth, which allows short-range wireless communication. It enables a phone to have multiple functions without requiring them to be on the same physical device - and this is exactly the area Motorola is now working in. The firm has developed a prototype called the SmartButton, a sleek-looking badge worn by the user which uses Bluetooth to connect to the user's mobile phone. To use the   phone, you don't need to pick up it up or even look at it, explains Joe Dvorak, a member of Motorola's technical staff: "If the user taps the SmartButton and says 'Call John Smith,' the phone looks up the number and places the call."Don't expect to be able to buy such phones in the next year or so, however. The technology is there, but firms are still trying to find the form that works. "It's just a matter of someone hitting on the right combination of Bluetooth connective accessories and miniaturised product," says King.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Trip Hawkins, the videogame visionary who formed Electronic Arts back in 1982, and later launched the 3DO games console, moved into mobile gaming last year with his new company,Digital Chocolate. The developer has just announced its opening line-up of Java and BREW titles: Baseball Heroes of the MLBPAA and Bubble Ducky. The latter is a puzzle game, apparently, and not some kind of camp bathing simulation. Disappointingly.Trip is certainly not the first videogame legend to turn up in the mobile sector. John Romero, co-founder of Id, is now running mobile development studioMonkeystone, Dave Jones, founder of DMA Design (responsible for Lemmings and the GTA series), is working on mobile gaming projects, Nolan Bushnell's companyuWinksdevelops for mobile platforms and Dave Ward, founder of eighties giant Ocean Software, went on to become chairman ofiFonethe Manchester-based mobile studio bringing all of Atari's classic coin-ops to Java handsets.Perhaps it's down to the gold rush feel of the mobile sector, its small teams, small budgets and quick turnaround - all very familiar from the golden era of videogaming and home computers. Maybe these early auteurs have found it impossible to tune into the faceless, corporate dynamic of the modern console industry, which has little patience with individual thinking (see Clive Thompson's interesting angle onthis).It's interesting to think about Trip Hawkins' failed3DOconsole nowadays, especially in relation to the comparative success of Xbox. 3DO, you may remember, was the first-ever CD-based 32bit games console when it launched back in 1993. Hamstrung by a lack of Japanese developer support and an extortionate launch price, it was obliterated by the launch of the Sega Saturn and Sony PlayStation a year later. Surely Microsoft must have looked at this earlier American attempt to break Japan's stranglehold on the videogame hardware market, and taken a few tips. Interestingly though, the two machines have some similarities: most obviously a reliance on western-developed games, and sheer ugly size. Seems that Trip was eight years too early. Better luck this time.The five best games on 3DO1. Return Fire (Prolific) - really addictive two-player strategy shooter based around a 'capture the flag' structure. 2. Need For Speed (EA) - the original version of EA's street driving brand. Great cars, great circuits, great handling. 3. Super Street Fighter II Turbo (Capcom) - near-arcade perfect translation of Capcom's own favourite Street Fighter title. 4. Star Fighter (Studio 3DO) - slightly hypnotic sci-fi flight sim with decent flight model. 5. FIFA International Soccer (EA) - early realisation of the FIFA brand, before they tried to confuse us with off the ball control.Just checked: there's a Panasonic 3DO and several of the above games on Ebay at the moment for £30...
Google yesterday slashed the price range of its initial public offering by more than a quarter and reduced the number of shares for sale - a sign that volatile market conditions and a stream of negative publicity have taken their toll on the most anticipated flotation in years.At most, the internet search engine company will now be worth $25.8bn (&#163;14bn) when it joins the market, compared with a top estimate of $36.6bn.In a statement posted on its website in the early hours of the morning, Google said it expects the shares to be priced at between $85 and $95 each, against forecasts of between $108 and $135. The number of shares on offer has been pared back from 25.7m to 19.6m.The changes appeared to confirm widespread reports of tepid demand, particularly from institutional investors.Google said it hoped regulators would approve the final paperwork for the registration of its IPO after trading closed on Wall Street last night. It had expected the United States securities and exchange commission to give its approval on Tuesday night. The SEC gave no reason for not doing so.The latest delay could simply relate to the changes made to the offering. But Google also said the SEC had asked for more information regarding the interview with the company's two founders, Sergey Brin and Larry Page, published in this month's American edition of Playboy. The article potentially broke SEC rules on information about the company in the run-up to an IPO.If the SEC approves the float, shares could begin trading on the Nasdaq market today.Wall Street has been irritated by the use of the unusual   "Dutch auction" to set the offer price - the original forecasted range was viewed by many analysts as too high. Institutional investors have also complained about the scant details in Google's prospectus on future earnings and what it intends to do with cash raised in the IPO.The offering has also been clouded by mishaps, including technical problems, the Playboy interview and Google's failure to register millions of shares given to staff. At the same time the market has fallen sharply since Google announced its intention to float in April.The flotation is now expected to generate up to $1.86bn, rather than a possible $3.47bn. Existing stockholders, including the two founders, are cutting the number of shares they are selling in the IPO. Mr Brin and Mr Page are disposing of about 480,000 shares each, which means they will bank up to $45.6m apiece. The total number of shares being sold, 14.1m, remains unchanged.Google will still be among the biggest technology firms on Wall Street. Amazon.com has a current market capitalisation of $15.5bn, Yahoo! is worth $38.1bn and eBay $52.1bn.Google pioneered the use of a Dutch auction for the IPO to make it more widely available to individual investors. It also aimed to eliminate the first day bounce that allows some short-term investors to take quick profits in the after market.Under the auction system, the price is set according to demand. Conventionally, it is defined by analysis of a business by investment bankers."Google disenfranchised institutional demand," a head of capital markets at a European investment bank said. "A lot of institutions were feeling, 'you don't want to play with me? You want to play with retail? Fine'."Google included the full text of the Playboy interview in an amended SEC filing and explained several factual differences between the article and its prospectus. It reiterated that it did not believe it had violated the rules.
After the rosy rush that comes from being in situ, a somber analysis of theEdinburgh International Games Festivalhighlights that the event was overshadowed by a gloomy cloud which rained uncertainty and self-doubt down upon the delegates. This year's major theme was the threat of a creative lull in a business which is increasingly relying upon sequels, movie tie-ins and watered-down re-makes for its fiscal successes.Certainly if the industry wants to expand it's ever-shrinking market, it needs to start thinking outside of its (console) box by investing in titles, products and events which are more inclusive, and much more unusual. We already know that the vast library of Tiger Woods , FIFAs and Tomb Raiders appeal to a certain market. How long before they get tired of the same thing and stop buying? What about the other 95% of the population who don't play in the first place? The industry appears to be in a rut.After their cultural coup with the first PlayStation, Sony has again taken the lead in cracking the current vicious cycle and is really pushing the boundaries with the releases of EyeToy and SingStar, and with events like thePlayStation Experienceat Alton Towers. But whatever happened to unusual titles like Rez? Bizarre games like firework-simulation Fantavision? Software that really pushes the boundaries of contemporary genres instead of adding an unusual tentacle to an already-established subset of gaming? Are we to rely solely upon the one-man-and-his-browser approach to independent game making, producing really inspriational computerized entertainment that is only picked up by viral marketers or switched-on students of social software?Hollywood was injected with a much-needed kick up the creative with the emergence of indie cinema in the late '90's, with auteurs like Hal Hartley ostensibly opening the doors for talents like contemporary studio-embraced visionaries like Spike Jonze and Wes Anderson. Comics had their renaissance with the arrival of Stan Lee and Marvel, shaking the rafters of production houses until Alan Moore fell out and made graphic novels truly works of literary art. Where are the indie kids in silicone software? Maybe this is a lesson games publishers can learn from other established media, allowing it to leapfrog those years of languish in favour of encouraging radical thinking in computerized entertainment now.The bigwigs of interactive entertainment aren't wearing blinders. If the EIGF discussions amongst some of the top executives are anything to go by, they are actively trying to figure out how to balance old-school risk (read, crazy creative computerized liberalism) and new-world publisher's budgets (read, capitalist conservatism). However, in the meantime behemoths like Electronic Arts - that all-consuming Canadian monster - are accused of devouring the remaining bastions of British independence and forcing them to release turkeys likeCatwomanafter six measly months of development.One of the suggestions posited by the Seamus Blackley-headed session "Hollywood Model" was to import a new mindset towards hiring-and-firing for games creation. Instead of offering jobs for life, as many contemporary companies currently do, hire teams of individuals on a per-project basis. That way dev houses know they're getting the best group of creatives money can buy, specifically imported for the task at hand. Well, as a graduate of that model myself (albeit on the smaller silver screen), I can see the positives and negatives to this avenue. Certainly the folks that are collated may have the skills to do the job as a team, but generating a freelance state ruins the security, the potential for sideways promotion and alternative skill development which this industry claims as its basis. It also doesn't help the existing quality of life issues in which 60-80 hour weeks (often unpaid overtime) are the norm, and burnout is a serious problem (see the IGDA'sQuality of Life White Paperfor a more in-depth look at this subject).What are some of the most creative games you've ever played? How have they pushed the boundaries of interactive entertainment? What kinds of things would you like to play?My top five, in no particular order, are:Vib Ribbon: A rhythm action title with excellent lo-fi graphics, a simple concept and the abilitiy to freak out the on-screen activity by putting in CDs of your own to play to. Aphex Twin really messes with its head.EyeToy: I was a cynic until I showed some of my non-gamer friends this whole-body-movement game and was amazed at their immediate reaction. I have never seen a group of people enjoy themselves quite as much. Ditto toSingStar. My neighbour is most upset by the 3am rentitions of Avril Lavigne and The Darkness, but it's got to be done if it converts some of the faithless to the fold.Endorfun: a very little-known game which tried to jiggy with your neurochemistry by offering a calming and positive experience to gameplay. It didn't quite work, but the idea is very intriguing.Katamari Damacy: one of the EDGE Award nominees, this is a truly bonkers little game currently only available in Japan, but slated for a North American release sometime in 2005. The basic premise is that you're highly magnetic and things stick to you. As you get bigger, more things stick. Simple, addictive and totally unique.Perfect Dark: I believe – and I expect I will be corrected if I'm wrong – this was the first console game to include cooperative gameplay. That revolutionized the experience and threw open the floodgates for other great gaming experiences, most notably in something like Halo.
Despite a seeming lack of interest in online gaming,The Register reportsthat Nintendo has today been granted a US patent that gives it the ownership of key online multi-player gaming services such as voice comms. Seeing as Xbox currently rule the roost here with Xbox Live, it will be interesting to see what impact this has. Could Nintendo have finally woken up to the online gaming future?
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Monday August  30 2004We said in the report below that Microsoft Office 97 was a replacement for Windows 95. We confused two pieces of software: Windows 95 is an operating system; Office 97 is a suite of word processing and other programs.Insensitive computer programmers with little knowledge of geography have cost the giant Microsoft company hundreds of millions of dollars in lost business and led hapless company employees to be arrested by offended governments.The problem has damaged the company's reputation and the "trust rating," which is seen as key to keeping the company competitive, has dropped, a senior Microsoft executive revealed yesterday at the International Geographers Conference in Glasgow.In a frank assessment of the company's problems in trying to be a global player without offending local sensibilities, Tom Edwards, its senior geopolitical strategist, said employees' lack of basic geography was to blame.The company has now launched geography classes for its staff to avoid further bloomers which have caused embarrassment and cost money on a grand scale. He said that as a geographer himself it was depressing that Americans had a reputation for being particularly unaware of the rest of the world. The annual National Geographic Survey had thrown up the sad fact that only 23 out of 56 young Americans knew the whereabouts of the Pacific Ocean."It is therefore no surprise that some of our employees, however bright they may, have only a hazy idea about the rest of the world," he said. "The repercussions on us can be very serious."As an American company with a global reach, Microsoft had to try and foster trust for reliability of its software and not cause offence.He said in all cases the mistakes made were simply through ignorance but this was not how they were seen in the countries concerned. They were all seen as deliberate policy and so the offence taken was far greater as a result.Perhaps the best known, and one of the most expensive, errors was a colour-coded world map showing time zones, which showed the disputed Jammu-Kashmir region as not being in India - an offence under Indian law. The mistake led to the whole of the Windows 95 operating system being banned in the country, losing large sales. For its replacement, Microsoft, Office 97, Microsoft removed the colour coding and sold 100,000 copies in India.Mr Edwards said the decisions on what to do about disputes arising over Microsoft products was taken entirely on commercial grounds.For example when employees were arrested in Turkey because Kurdistan had been shown as a separate entity on maps of the country, a decision was taken to remove Kurdistan from all maps."Of course we offended Kurds by doing this but we had offended the Turks more and they were a much more important market for our products. It was a hard commercial decision, not political."One mistake that caused catastrophic offence was a game called Kakuto Chojin, a hand to hand fighting game. The fighting went on with rhythmic chanting in the background which in reviewing the game Mr Edwards noticed appeared to be Arabic."I checked with an Arabic speaker in the company who was also a Muslim about what the chant meant and it was from the Koran. He went ballistic. It was an incredible insult to Islam." He asked for the game to be withdrawn but it was issued against his advice in the United States in the belief that it would not be noticed.Three months later, the Saudi Arabian government made a formal protest. Microsoft withdrew the game worldwide.His investigations showed the Japanese, who had developed the game for Microsoft, had added the chant to the tape because they liked the sound of it without checking its origins. "They were chastised and corrected," he said.Mr Edwards said it was better to be honest and open about these mistakes. It was all part of rebuilding that vital trust in the product.Expensive oversights&#183;A game called Age of Empires 2 offended the Saudi Arabian authorities because it showed victorious Muslim armies turning churches into mosques. The game was withdrawn from sale in the kingdom&#183;The Korean government, objected because Microsoft software showed the national flag in reverse. The software had to be changed.&#183;The Spanish version of Windows used the word Hembra - meaning "woman" in Spain - for choosing gender. But in some Central American republics, notably Nicaragua, the word is an insult meaning "bitch". The program was changed.&#183;Microsoft employees were questioned by police in China, where it is an offence to refer to Taiwan as a country or as seperate to the Republic of China. Now Taiwan is not referred to as a country and all software worldwide avoids the issue by referring to places as "regions or districts".&#183;Uruguay is a republic and proud if it but in Microsoft's Outlook in Uruguay, the company offended the government by describing Tuesday April 30 as the queen's birthday.
Back last month when Real Networks said that it was making songs available for download to the iPod after the cracking of Apple's proprietory code, it was apparent that a conflict was building between the two companies."[The] company has been threatening to make this move for a couple of months, ever since he [Real boss Rob Glaser] claimed publicly that Apple founder Steve Jobs refused to reply to his emails when he suggested working together on enabling universal digital music compatibility," reportsMacNewsWorldNow things have taken a further step. Anonline petitionfrom Real has somewhatbackfiredand now Real is slashing the price of their downloads to 49 cents, effectively stoking up a price war."But the offer won't come cheaply for Real Networks. The company said Tuesday that the campaign could increase its third-quarter loss by a penny per share," saysCNet.Comment:There are serious questions about Digital Rights Management at stake here. For Apple, the iPod is effectively a loss leader, with the real money to be made from drawing people into the brand. But should one company really be the only one able to offer iPod downloads?Whatever the issues, though, Real has gone off the deep end. If they really believe that they should take Apple on, surely this is not the best way to go about it. While Steve Jobs recovers from his cancer operation, Real sticks the boot in, annoys its investors and - ultimately - fails to align itself with public sympathy.
Future A-Level and GCSE candidates could find their papers being marked with the click of a mouse instead of the traditional red biro after a deal yesterday between one of the country's largest examination boards and RM, the computers for schools group.As sixth formers picked up their results, RM announced it is working with the University of Cambridge Local Examinations Syndicate (Ucles) to develop an IT system that will digitise exam scripts and send them out to be graded. The 15,000 Ucles markers will be able to use their computers to mark the scripts and then send them back, hopefully speeding up the process.OCR, the Ucles examination board operation which is one of the UK's big three, receives approximately 1.5m GCSE entries and 500,000 A-level entries a year. It hopes to be able to trial a digital marking system next summer with just over 1m scripts from a variety of subjects before deciding whether to convert all its scripts.RM already has a deal with the Qualifications and Curriculum Agency, which regulates public examinations in England, to create a computer-based IT exam for 14-year-old pupils. An initial pilot scheme took place earlier this summer.But the deal with Ucles has the potential to be much wider in scope as it will involve the digitisation of exam scripts from across the curriculum. RM would not give financial details but the sums involved are thought to be fairly small.The deal is part of a growing trend in education towards the use of technology to speed up the marking process while ensuring that students get the grades they deserve.Edexcel, the UK's largest exam board, which is owned by Pearson, has already carried out widespread trials of online marking while RM is talking to the remaining board, the Assessment and Qualification Alliance, about a possible partnership.But recent experiments with online marking have not all gone smoothly. Earlier this week the Guardian's education supplement revealed a catalogue of glitches that led the Department for Education and Skills to admit it would not be able to publish the results of English Sats for 14-year-olds on time because the results were not "fit for purpose".The scope for problems in the existing paper-based system, however, was highlighted two years ago when thousands of exam papers had to be remarked after the botched introduction of the new A-level curriculum.
Of all the online initiatives launched in the run-up to 2005, the National e-Procurement project (NePP) is clearly one of the government's favourites. The reason is simple: it promises to deliver considerable savings.Together, the local authorities of England and Wales spend about &#163;25bn a year on bought-in goods and services. By automating the processes associated with buying, the government believes councils can slash costs and generate additional funds for important services. Getting local councils - particularly smaller district ones - to adopt e-procurement has not been easy, though.For many, the costs of systems are a strong deterrent. Any council that goes shopping in this area will discover that e-purchasing solutions can cost between &#163;200,000 and &#163;1m, and a managed e-auction ranges from about &#163;15,000 to &#163;80,000. According to the National e-Procurement Project's own figures, more than 115 English local authorities, out of the total of 388, are actively implementing solutions. The task now is to persuade more to follow suit.Colin Whitehouse, the new chair of NePP, believes there are significant benefits to be achieved if councils review their purchasing processes and manage their supply chains more effectively with technology. To overcome the prohibitive costs, he is urging councils to collaborate in order to share resources."Every pound you save through better procurement is a pound you can spend on better front-line services," says Whitehouse. "We want to attempt to provide as much   support as we can to smaller councils who have had problems engaging with e-procurement so far."He wants to encourage more councils to make use of the free toolkits that are available online. This is combined with a series of practical workshops running across the country, where councils will be given specific tasks - such as completing a supplier and spend analysis. Then they will return to a subsequent workshop, to review their work so they can progress onto the next stage: implementation.Whitehouse acknowledges that e-procurement cannot be quickly fixed in these workshop environments, and appreciates the issues that new systems raise. "Councils have to make sure that the group that is put together to deliver e-procure ment takes all views into account." As well as procurement, finance and IT being represented on implementation teams, he says there should also be economic development staff, auditors and legal representatives.Suppliers are broadly supportive of the work of NePP, but believe adoption is still slow. "There are more councils that are being responsive," says Malcolm Rosier, the head of marketing for Best Value Procurement. "There is more activity in the market but it is still very small. There are great swathes of the country where not much is happening. I think the priority must be to get councils engaged with e-procurement and starting doing things now."However, there are regions where councils are working together and enjoying the benefits of these new   systems. Leeds City Council is sharing its electronic tendering system with 11 other Yorkshire councils, and suppliers are able to register on the web-based system and access tender information and submit bids online."It gives suppliers more visibility about the tendering opportunities in the region," explains Wayne Baxter, procurement policy and strategy manager for Leeds City Council. He estimates that the city is now saving about &#163;3,000 a month in advertising due to the introduction of the electronic tendering system. And across West Yorkshire, councils are using electronic systems to streamline processes and standardise terms and conditions for the supply of certain types of goods.NePP commissioned a report earlier this year from Deloitte   Consulting which claimed that councils could expect to save &#163;1.1bn if they implemented modern e-procurement solutions. The report claimed that e-purchasing could deliver average savings of &#163;26 per transaction, while e-tendering promised average savings of 13% for a request for quotation. You could visualise jaws dropping in disbelief when the savings were announced but Baxter feels they are achievable. However, if you already have good procurement arrangements, online savings are unlikely to be as dramatic.While benefits can be delivered, implementation can be painfully difficult as councils struggle to reform their purchasing processes before automating them. And for smaller councils, the costs of some e-purchasing solutions are beyond their reach. "E-procurement is a tool, and you need to be careful you don't get too absorbed in the IT side," says Daniel Allen, audit manager for Colchester Borough Council. Having considered online marketplaces, Allen thinks they have limitations, so the council is concentrating on procurement cards. "It's less onerous," he says.NePP hopes to lighten the burden of introducing electronic purchasing systems. Despite its concerted efforts, the current evidence suggests that there will be plenty of councils who will not have adopted e-procurement by 2005. But if more information can be made available showing how savings are diverted into education and health, the case for e-procurement will become politically impossible to ignore.Visit:www.nepp.org.uk
Never underestimate Microsoft. At the end of last year, the software giant seemed to be struggling to stay in favour with its biggest customer outside the US, the British taxpayer. Across the public sector, a climate of opinion was forming behind the use of open source software, not just on the server but on the desktop.This week, however, Microsoft's control of the government desktop looks as secure as ever. It announced a 10-year partnership (subject to compulsory break-points) with the London borough of Newham. The deal follows a decision by the NHS to go with Microsoft for large parts of the new national patient-record system.Newham is a worthy catch for Microsoft. The Financial Times   commented snootily that the council "is not generally regarded as an information technology trailblazer". In fact, Newham has an excellent reputation for pioneering on e-services.Two years ago, the government chose the borough to launch a national strategy for local e-government. In 2003, Newham continued to set the pace by hiring a consultancy, Netproject, to develop and demonstrate an IT architecture based on open source software. This rattled Microsoft, which was facing an open source movement by local authorities across Europe.Microsoft drew a line in the sand. It agreed a package of price cuts for software and goodies such as Tablet PCs, in a deal worth about &#163;500,000 a year. It also paid for Capgemini, an IT consultancy, to evaluate the "costs, business bene fits and risk profiles" of Newham's choice. The result, triumphantly unveiled by Microsoft this week, was that when the costs of migration were taken into account, the council would save twice as much money from the Microsoft deal than by going to open source. The study was done with a methodology developed by the Gartner market analysis firm for analysing total cost of ownership.Open source enthusiasts pooh-poohed the findings, and pointed out that migration costs are a one-off, while licence fees are ongoing. But the study will be hard to ignore.Although Newham's experience has attracted much attention, it is only one authority out of 468 in the UK. The NHS deal affects two-thirds of the health service in England. Under a series of contracts worth some &#163;3bn, every health   authority north of the Thames Valley will install a system being developed by a specialist firm called iSoft, Microsoft's main healthcare partner in the UK.Despite this foothold, the open source movement in government is far from dead. Next month is likely to bring a resurgence of interest when results emerge from government-sponsored trials of the technology. Meanwhile, 60 open source companies will form a new consortium to promote open source in the public sector.However, Microsoft too has something up its sleeve: a new government-wide pricing deal negotiated with the NHS's leverage. Although open source will nibble away and continue to find converts, the national deal, currently going through the Treasury, could be an offer the civil servants find hard to refuse.
There are already about 660m to 700m PCs in the world, and sales are running at about 150m a year. Analysts think that we should hit the magic billion mark in 2009. But it is much harder to guess when the installed base will reach 2bn, because by then, it may be hard to say what constitutes a PC. Indeed, the number of PCs could vary on an hourly basis.At the moment, a PC is a processor box with a monitor and a keyboard. That is going to change, for two reasons, but not necessarily in this order. First, chips are going to have more than one processor; second, many desktop boxes will be replaced by servers.Intel has already confused some operating systems by introducing chips with "hyperthreading" that   makes one processor work much like two. Intel, AMD and IBM have also decided to produce multicore processors. Put crudely, the idea is that you will get more power from a chip that sports two or more 3MHz processor cores than from one 6MHz core. It will also run cooler and, therefore, more reliably.Of course, today's processors are already overpowered for most ordinary business purposes - unless your business involves playing 3D games and editing videos. Tomorrow, you will have far more power in even the cheapest PCs, so you could find other ways to use it.Gartner analyst Brian Gammage recently suggested one idea: give everybody two "virtual PCs" running on the same box, using the same screen and keyboard.   One could be the corporate system, locked down and fully protected, while the other could be open, so users could do what they liked. Indeed, this is already possible using virtual PC software such as VMware.An alternative would be to connect three or four terminals (screens and keyboards) to the same PC, in the same way that we did when even small computers cost &#163;20,000. There would still be more than enough power to run most clerical and small business tasks. Again, this is already possible using Unix and clones such as Linux.However, we now have lots of servers based on racks of four-processor PC boards or blades running PC-type operating systems. Rather than having a box on every desk, you could just use   a server instead. Each user would still have a PC, they would just be running their software on a real or "virtual PC" on the server. Again, this is possible today. The "terminal" is usually a PC, but with something like Citrix running Windows, it could be a Mac, a PDA or other device.Now, imagine that you are running hundreds of virtual PCs on a large server, so users log on with the terminal they want and pick the operating system(s) they want. You can keep creating virtual PCs until you run out of processing power.How many PCs is that?It's not hard to imagine another billion standalone PCs being sold. But the next couple of billion could be virtual PCs, and could be installed in five years rather than 25.A billion PC users on the way (CNet)http://news.com.comGartner Predicts PC Virtualisationwww4.gartner.comwww.vmware.comCitrixwww.citrix.com
Doom 3PC, &#163;29.99 id/Activision,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Ten years after the release of Doom 2 comes the third in the seminal series. And boy, does it look good. In what is proving to be a fantastic year for fans of quality graphics - Far Cry, et al - Doom 3 pushes things forward.Take your pick from the incredibly atmospheric lighting effects or hugely detailed environments. But these only come second to the groundbreakingly gorgeous enemies. Whether it's the shuffling zombies or the frankly disturbing cherubs, Doom 3 continually delivers visual treats. What it doesn't deliver, is anything approaching an original idea. But in this case, it doesn't matter.As a space marine stationed on a Martian base, your job is to investigate some mysterious goings on. Of course, your work uncovers some shortcomings in the state of the base - namely that it has been overrun by a big bunch of nasties. Players have to enter an area, kill everything, and walk cautiously in to the next section.Players expecting the narrative from Half-Life or the stealthy thrills of Thief 3 will be disappointed. But they are missing the point - Doom 3 is all about combat and atmosphere, with a palpable feeling of tension created throughout the game.Creeping along a dark passageway; unloading your ammo into an advancing shape, while catching sight of something scuttling through the dim lighting: this is what Doom 3 is about, and this is why it is such a marvellous game.Greg HowsonKingdom Under Fire: The CrusadersXbox, &#163;39.99 Phantagram/Microsoft,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Phantagram dabbled with the Kingdom Under Fire world in 2001 in its PC strategy game of the same name. And although they share the same setting, this recent version couldn't be more different. Instead of shuffling little troops around on a static landscape, this KUF sees you assuming the role of one of four commanders. Each has a unique storyline, and each has to steer their medieval troops through a beautiful 3D world before leaping into slash 'em up battles.Right from the off, the game throws you into the action. Mastering the controls in order to flick between different units and execute, say, a cavalry charge backed up with a volley of arrows, takes a bit of time. But it's more than worth it. There are a few movement glitches here and there but nothing to cause too much of a hindrance.Even though you've got two henchmen at your side, from time to time offering advice, there is still a fair bit to learn for yourself about fighting strategically. For example, fire can be used to flush out or eliminate hiding enemy troops, while archers need to be positioned so their backs are to the sun if they are to fire accurately.The fights are atmospheric, adrenalin-packed, and filled with the roar of battle as you run round executing   deadly combo moves and trying to locate the enemy leader, whose death can quickly bring you victory. KUF: The Crusades is the kind of game that the Xbox has needed for a long time.Rhianna PratchettShrek 2Xbox (also available for PS2, PC, GC, GBA), &#163;39.99 Luxoflux/Activision, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;In a world where games are cynically rushed out to cash in on Hollywood movies, Shrek 2 manages to be very good indeed. In the game you (Shrek) have to choose three companions of nine to help you on your quest. Then it's a matter of exploring huge, lush levels (some from the movie, some not) solving puzzles, accumulating points and, of course, fighting.In battle, you can switch between party members at will, with the others defending themselves in your absence. So often the failing of games such as this is the camera which, here, is only mildly annoying, whereas the Hero Time levels where you focus on one character and their special moves, makes for excellent variety.The bad news is that the voices you hear, although fairly convincing, are obviously not Murphy, Myers, Banderas and co from the movie. This is disappointing, but given the overall quality of the game, it's forgivable.Mike Anderiesz
The Edinburgh Festival season has kicked off; the streets are populated by strangely-dressed thespians and bewildered tourists. Into this cultural hotchpotch has slunk an interloper, fresh from the controversy that recently featured on the front pages of tabloids. For the second year running, the computer games industry has dared to wave its digital flag at Edinburgh's conference centre and in events across the city, drawing luminaries away from their computer screens in order to inspire, provoke and entertain.The Edinburgh International Games Festival's (EIGF) series of trade sessions took place at the end of last week, gathering over 300 delegates to contemplate the next move in interactive digital storytelling. Instead of focusing on hardware chips or revolutions in graphics, the festival was aimed at a more cultural palate. Fan boys and the ubiquitous "booth babes" of other trade shows were notably absent, replaced instead by a battery of chief executives, students of social networks and a few famous faces.Visitors came from across the entertainment spectrum to listen to two days of presentations. Opening the series, Greg Ingham, chief executive of The Future Network, addressed the cultural validity of gaming in a climate where incidents such as the recent murder of a teenager in Leicester, attributed by his parents to the influence a computer game had on his killer, indicated the "extraordinary imbecility" of coverage of the industry. Ingham argued that a business that allows such a manipulation of its image is not as mainstream as it believes itself to be.The conference then considered the effects of big business on the creative enterprise. For example, industry behemoths such as Electronic Arts were criticised for their perceived takeover of the world's publishers and developers.However, the discussions turned away from accusations and on to more positive issues. For example, the North American delegates were particularly interested in the focus of European academics and social network proponents on gaming and software-human interactivity. Doug Lowenstein, president of the US games trade body ESA, spoke of injecting emotion and social processes into games.For the first time, these applications appeared to be not distant fantasies, limited by clunky processors and under-performing hardware engines; rather, it felt like they were close realities, destined in the next few years to make gaming a more significant and rewarding activity.These conversations continued outside of the conference rooms. Some of the newly-established game screenings, located in Odeon cinemas, inspired debate over future applications, and the role of developers amid the culture of fear surrounding interactive entertainment.The unhappy circumstance of this year's festival taking place at a time when the media is pre-occupied with horror-mongering resulted in less than average coverage. This is a pity considering the quality of subjects, attendees and conclusions that emerged.&#183;Aleks Krotoski sat on the EIGF04 steering committee.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
On the roadCan you advise the growing army of readers who travel abroad with laptops how to access their British ISPs? I used to use iPass, which was very good, but it doesn't appear to be readily available these days.Ian RichardsonJack Schofield replies:iPass is still going strong but is mainly used by businesses. A newer rival called NetAwaywww.netaway.comlooks consumer friendly and may be worth a go. In general, using a local free or pay-as-you-go ISP account should be a good solution, because at least you will be able to check your mail via the web usingwww.web2mail.comor a similar service.You should also be able to send mail using a mail program such as Outlook Express, as long as you remember to collect mail before trying to send any. This is because many mail servers use "POP before SMTP" authentication to discourage spammers from relaying spam. In other words, you have to be authenticated by the inbound (POP3) mail server before it lets you send outgoing mail via SMTP. NetAway avoids this problem by running a relaying service, so you have to change your outgoing address to relay.netaway.com.Also, before travelling, be sure to get a proper dial-up number for your usual ISP, so that if necessary you can call directly while you are abroad. If the worst comes to the worst, you can use a web-based service to delete spam and viruses from your mailbox, then use a dial-up line or even a mobile phone connection to download important email.Avant guardHow do I get rid of Mysearchnow. com? I use Avant as my browser, but it has attached itself to Internet Explorer as well.Brian FrewJS:Mysearchnow.com is a version of the hated Lop (Live online portal) browser hijacker. SpyBot should be able to remove it. If it fails, try running it with your PC started in Safe Mode. For details of the Lop problem, seewww.spy-bot.net/lop.asp. Incidentally, Avant - which offers tabbed browsing and popup blocking - is one of the many alternative browsers based on the same operating system components as Internet Explorer. It is not a wholly separate browser like, say, Firefox.Ring the changesMy PC is afflicted by regular popups from a site called 680180.net, which offers me SMS ringtones. The site repeatedly opens new instances of Internet Explorer and, if left unattended, eventually crashes the computer.Michael SalkeldJS:680180 is advertising scumware from 680180 Incwww.680180.net, and works in Windows as a Browser Helper Object (BHO). An earlier variant was called Zamingo, so it should be removed by Pest Patrol, or try the manual instructions atwww.spyany.com. The more complicated alternative is to run HiJackThis and delete the 68010 files. For an example, seehttp://forums.spywareinfo.com.Who needs it?I can see a commercial use for broadband, but I am yet to be convinced of any real need for ordinary computer users: it seems an expensive way of downloading DVDs, MP3s and other music files. My concern is whether providers   will continue offering dial-up services, as many seem to be pushing for universal broadband.L. NelsonJS:I am sure that dial-up services will continue for many years. Most users may have access to broadband or Wi-Fi most of the time, but sometimes only dial-up will be available. However, dial-up services will become increasingly unusable as websites and email messages become larger to exploit the extra capabilities of broadband. Either way, broadband is not just about download speeds: the fact that it is "always on" makes a big difference to how you use the net.Backchat&#183;Last week, Jonathan Carr said his PC had a wavy screen. I suggested he check the monitor cable, among other things. Niall Bacon added that it could also be a loose video card, so it might be worth removing the card and reinstalling it. Other readers found the cause was outside interference. For example, David J Jones's monitor suffered odd distortions caused by an oscillating fan.&#183;Andy Brown's query about renumbering 2,000 image files attracted a large response. Software developer Alex Marland recommended a freeware application, AF5.5Rename Your Filesfor ease of use and control. Many readers suggested using the rename function in their picture viewing and management software: Jim Elks recommend ACDSee, Steven Pickett the freeware program, Irfanview, while James Carter picked the powerfulIMtach. Iain Row of Prominent Media Ltd wrote Andy a short bit of VBScript to do the job. Finally, Matthew Pescud wanted a follow-up answer on renaming MP3 files so he can store tracks in alphabetical order. Any suggestions?
One of the main factors that has limited the availability of broadband services in rural areas has been the distance between BT's local telephone exchange and people's houses.But today BT is set to announce that from September 6 it is scrapping its distance limits after customer tests in Fort William, Scotland, and Milton Keynes showed that most of the country's far-flung households can get broadband without an engineer having to pay a visit.Homeowners more than 6km away from the nearest exchange have often found themselves left out in the cold as BT concentrated on bringing broadband to more urban regions. Under the new plans, many more homes should be able to connect to broadband services.One in five households beyond the old limit will still need to arrange a time for an engineer to come and install new wiring in their home, but there will be no call-out charge.Customers in the more remote parts of the UK will then be able to choose from the more than 150 ISPs that currently make use of BT's lines to provide 512 kbps broadband services. BT is not yet able, however, to provide its 1MB service over long distances of copper wire.The telecoms giant believes that scrapping its distance limits will make 99.8% of all the country's phone lines broadband-enabled, bringing broadband within the reach of all but a few tens of thousands of houses in the most remote parts of the country. At that level, broadband will be available to as many homes as good quality TV reception.
The first shots in the Christmas 2004 console war were fired today as both Microsoft and Sonyannounced price cuts. The PlayStation 2 will now retail for the rather odd price of £104.99 (was £149.99), with the Xbox a slightly cheaper £99.99 (was £129.99) Expect an upsurge in sales in the coming weeks, especially as the Q4 run of decent games starts to kick in. However, it's worth noting that the Xbox is a big money pit for Microsoft, with an operating loss of $209 million in the first three months of 2004.
Like every other entertainment sector, the videogame industry is prone to sudden fads and fashions that seem to spring out of nowhere, take the scene by storm, and then disappear only to be replaced by more advanced technologies, or better ideas, or somethingreallysilly.With this in mind, I've carefully surveyed the current industry and come up with ten concepts that no game design studio can afford to overlook. Feel free to add your own. Or take issue with mine.1. Normal mappingThis powerful graphics technique is all the rage at the moment – although only the Xbox and high-end PC graphics cards are really up to the job. A 'normal map' is like a holographic texture map that contains 3D information that is only revealed by the reflection of light on the surface. When you place a normal map onto a simple shape, the end result is an object that looks much more detailed than it actually is. Games like Doom 3, Far Cry and Chronicles of Riddick make impressive use of the technique.2. Sandbox gameplaySandbox is the new 'non-linear' - a favourite buzzword for open-ended game design. The analogy, of course, refers to a sandpit in a kids playground where you can do whatever you like (as long as it involves a bucket and spade presumably). The key example of sandbox gameplay is Grand Theft Auto, which provides complete freedom of exploration between the structured missions. Since the success of Vice City, everyone is trying open-ended gameplay. As a result, the dole office is full of unemployed end-of-level bosses.3. CrimeThe biggest trend in gaming at the moment, mainly due to the success of GTA. We've had hired assassins (Hitman), cockney gangsters (The Getaway) snuff movie murder (Manhunt) and the Mafia (erm, Mafia), and we'll soon see robbery (Acclaim'sThe Last Job) and another LA gang thriller (25 To Life from Eidos). Boardrooms across the globe are right now trying to work out the next big crime concept. Unfortunately, all that's left are pick-pocketing, jay-walking and indecent exposure.4. Street RacingAll the big driving genres – arcade, rally, F1 – have been done to death, so developers, already fascinated by crime and edgy urban themes, have turned to street racing: the popular culture of taking your Mum's Citroen Saxo, sticking a massive spoiler on it and then annoying tax-payers by racing around the one way system at three in the morning. Several current games enable players to buy a piece of junk and then "mod" it so that it becomes… a piece of junk with lowered suspension and bucket seats. Most popular at the moment are Need for Speed Underground and Midnight Club 2 by Rockstar. New kids on the block include the very in-depth Juiced and Street Racing Syndicate from Namco.5. Mass battlesOnce, shoot-em'-ups were about the lone crusader taking on swarms of enemies, the odds stacked against him like spent cartridges. Now, Battlefield 1942, State of Emergency and Call of Duty have popularised the concept of en masse team fighting. It's not just you anymore, it's you and a whole AI army willing to leg it directly into the line of fire while you cower at the back with a sniper rifle. As for multiplayer gaming, forget 16 player deathmatches, think 64 player team battles taking place over hundreds of acres of land. Men of Valor and Star Wars: Battlefront are the latest to sign up.6. PhysicsThe huge processing power of today's high spec PCs and games consoles means that developers are able to explore realistic physics in more depth and detail than ever before. Take racing games like Burnout 3, for example: each vehicle has dozens of deformation points where damage is shown on the chassis in the event of a crash. This damage is relative to the exact impact point and the force of impact. You also get actual chassis parts flying across the road – and of course, the trajectory of each piece is calculated in real-time.Another trendy concept is rag doll physics, an attempt to simulate the flexibility of human body movement, again in real-time. The most obvious use is in shooters like Splinter Cell 3. When an enemy is hit by a bullet, they stagger backwards, their arms flail and legs buckle, and the effect is localised depending on the exact point of impact. Bodies will also react to environments, rolling down stairs rather than lying awkwardly in mid-air. EA's boxing sim Fight Night 2004 also uses rag doll physics to create realistic reactions to punches.The most respected physics engine at the moment is published by US companyHavok. The website provides ahandy guideto current game physics if you want to learn more. Which I'm sure you do.7. Bloom lightingBlooming is a technique that simulates the corona, or blur, that surrounds bright light sources like street lamps or polished metal. It's achieve by effectively taking a snapshot of all the lights in one frame of the videogame image, and then downsampling until the image loses much of its information, before laying the bloom image back over the original lighting. Got that? Doom3, Halo and Burnout all make noticeable use of the technique.8. Dynamic soundtracksA musical soundtrack that actually reacts to the onscreen action, altering in intensity when the player comes into danger, rather than merely tinkling along in the background. Splinter Cell 3: Chaos Theory, Metroid Prime and even Ashen on the N-Gage employ this technique. It's slightly more imaginative then merely filling the disc with licensed songs – although that's very popular at the moment too (see much of EA's current output especially Burnout 3, and, of course, GTA Vice City).9. Historical accuracyOnce the preserve of sad PC strategy titles, history has become a major videogame theme. It is conceivable that a generation of gamers knows more about the Second World War from playing Battlefield 1942, than they ever learned at school. EA's first-person shooter takes in key flashpoints like Operation Market Garden and El Alamein, while PC shooter Brothers in Arms is based around a true story, following the initial days of the invasion of Normandy. Other titles such as Medal of Honor, Call of Duty and Codename: Panzers take in other major battles. The Vietnam War and Desert Storm have since come in for similar treatment.10. Party gamingSince the launch of the PlayStation in 1994, Sony Computer Entertainment has been leading the charge to re-brand gaming as a legitimate element of youth culture alongside pop music, movies and getting pregnant. This process began with Wipeout, the 1995 futuristic racer loaded with licensed tunes by the likes of the Chemical Brothers. Later, the cute cartoon music title Pa Rappa the Rappa went further by attracting a genuinely unisex mainstream audience. Things are more sophisticated now with dancing games like Dance UK and Sony's EyeToy titles becoming party favourites among teenagers who might play no other form of videogame.Now SingStar and soon to be released hip-hop karaoke simGet On Da Mic, encourage participants to sing as well as dance, projecting their images onto the TV screen. Toying ever-so-gently with our sick, celebrity-obsessed minds, these social games are going to become more and more important over the next few years as the industry courts a wider audience. Eventually, the strands of mainstream interactive entertainment will merge. Combine the EyeToy camera peripheral with a broadband connection and you have the biggest talent show imaginable. Or a million Big Brother shows happening online simultaneously. You can decide for yourself which is the most nightmarish.
Yesterday Microsoft announced that it was hooking up with theInternet Content Ratings Associationto provide aFrontPage extensionwhich helps people building a website include an ICRA rating. The aim is to help parents control what kind of sites their children visit.This is all well and good, but I'd venture that the problem isn't to with parents who want to protect their children. It's about those children who given free licence to roam the web because parents remain woefully uneducated about the web. It's about making sure that those uninformed parents become informed - and not just through tabloid scare campaigns.And it's also about making the giants of the web do more than just gesturing toward child protection - for a start they could make a real effort to cut the huge levels of pornographic spam dropping into webmail boxes every day.
A chat with the Samaritans was getting nowhere. All I wanted was a cup of tea, a cigarette and a hug. Instead I was asked if I was suicidal and told that I had to find the answers within myself.True. In times of crisis, one cannot dismiss the importance of introspection. But sometimes you just want someone to entertain your self-indulgence, and enotalone understands this. It's the virtual online forum where the heartbroken, confused and disillusioned join hands and guide each other through the turbulent storms of their own personal dramas.The site is updated every minute by another soul somewhere in the world who has found their dreams crushed, husband cheating or girlfriend wanting out. It covers every form of misery; reminding you that whatever wall you've hit in life, you are indeed not the only one.So hold tight. A recently divorced 58-year-old in Milwaukee will preach lessons of love to a recently dumped teen in Croydon. The 15-step formula of finding happiness will be debated from Antigua to Australia, while the more discerning explain how to win the love of your life back via the "push-pull method".The best thing about enotalone is its staunch belief that the irrationality of love, life and human behaviour can be explained through the bitter experiences of others and a dose of good, old-  fashioned American therapy. While the world's disillusioned seek advice from each other, the professional therapists lurk on the sidelines monitoring the most prominent sectors of discussion which are used in wider social research.Enotalone is a personal agony aunt, without the shrink's fees or the pain of deeper introspection. In today's fast-paced world, sometimes we just can't bore our friends with any more of our own melodrama. So thank goodness there's someone out there who can't wait to listen.
BSkyB launched a multimillion-pound lawsuit against EDS yesterday, claiming that the US computer services group breached a contract to create a new IT system that would improve the satellite broadcaster's handling of customer inquiries.But EDS, which has lost several large government contracts and been blamed for computer glitches at both the Inland Revenue and Child Support Agency, hit back. It said it had terminated the contract two years ago because Sky repeatedly changed its requirements.The spat dates back to the summer of 2000 when Sky hired EDS to design, build and implement a customer service platform for its call centres in Livingston and Dunfermline in Scotland.But the deal with EDS ran into trouble after a year and the two sides are understood to have "rescoped" the terms of the contract in July 2001. Early the following year, EDS handed over responsibility for making the system work to Sky but continued to provide consultants. In December 2002, however, the contract ended.A spokesman for Sky said yesterday: "The contract was terminated after BSkyB became convinced that EDS would not deliver a system in accordance with its contractual obligations."Since 2000 the satellite broadcaster has spent about &#163;170m on the project and is projected to lay out a further &#163;50m over the next four years.In its filing with the high court yesterday, Sky accused EDS of deceit, negligent misrepresentation and breach of contract, claiming compensation which is expected to run into millions of pounds.EDS maintains that it, rather than Sky, terminated the deal in December 2002."We will defend this absolutely," said a spokesman for EDS yesterday. "The language they have used is really inflammatory and any analysis of what EDS undertook some four years ago will show that EDS behaved absolutely properly."The case will further undermine EDS's reputation after it was criticised by MPs for its handling of government contracts and lost out to rivals including BT in a recent round of IT deals with the NHS.Two years ago, delays in the introduction of a computer system designed by EDS for the Child Support Agency led the government to withhold payment until the system had been delivered, tested, and made fully operational.At the end of last year, EDS lost its most lucrative government contract as the Inland Revenue awarded a 10-year, &#163;3bn deal to a consortium led by Cap Gemini Ernst &amp; Young.EDS's involvement with the Inland Revenue had been mired in controversy after the botched launch of the government's tax credits scheme. In April, the public accounts committee revealed that EDS could not process payments accurately until 10 weeks after they should have begun.EDS also lost out last year in the race to provide electronic systems for patients' records at the NHS. The main contract was won by BT but EDS was vying for some of the regional   projects, worth about &#163;1bn each, to connect hospitals and health authorities to the national network. It lost out to rivals including consultancy firms CSC and Accenture.&#183;BSkyB yesterday agreed to supply its Sky Sports and Sky Movie channels through HomeChoice, the recently relaunched home entertainment service that uses telephone lines to access customers.HomeChoice, run by Video Networks, has operated in London for years but relaunched in May after subscriber numbers sank to 3,500.
"Nearly 86% of all spam messages sent since May 2004 came from the United States, according to e-mail security firm CipherTrust. This indicates spammers are finding ways around that country's anti-spam legislation," reportsSilicon.com.Although Korea represents 28% of the IP addresses used to send spam, it only accounts for 3% of junk mail."The UK barely registers in both areas, accounting for just 0.21% of the total spam volume and 0.54% of the IP addresses."Comment:Most of the spam I get is aimed at US users, with prices in dollars, so it's even more of a waste of time for me than it is for them. But it does make you wonder if there is a simpler way to block it. Could we, perhaps, move all the spam checking to the US borders, to stop American spammers from polluting the net? It would save the rest of the world a huge amount of pointless aggravation.... at least until the biggest US-based spammers moved some of their operations offshore.
